The papers of Diogenes Ballester measure 6.0 linear feet, and date from 1973 to 2020. The papers document his career as an artist, educator, and writer through correspondence with family friends, and various museums and galleries; notes, drafts of articles, drafts of lecture and presentation transcripts, and other writings; inventories, price lists, ledger books, and other personal business records; resumes, artist statements, exhibition files, and other professional activity files; clippings, articles, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and other printed material; and photographs and slides of Ballester, some of his family and friends, and of some of his artwork.
The papers of fiber artist James Bassler measure 3 linear feet and date from 1969 to 2003. The papers consist of biographical material, correspondence, personal business records, writings, professional files, printed material, and five scrapbooks. Much of the material was assembled by Bassler as supporting documentation for tenure at UCLA.
The records of the B. C. Holland Gallery measure 2.1 linear feet and date from 1942-1991 (bulk dates 1959-1965). Founded in Chicago, Illinois by Bud C. Holland and Noah Goldowsky, the collection documents over 98 artists associated with the gallery. Documentation includes invoices, correspondence between artists and gallery owners, price lists, exhibition catalogs and print materials, magazine and newspaper clippings, photographs, and slides, and some business records of the gallery.
The papers of painter and critic Rosalind Bengelsdorf Browne measure 3.2 linear feet and date from the 1910s to 1980. The papers document Browne's career through biographical materials including sketches and photographs, correspondence with friends, artists, and institutions, writings, professional files, and printed material.
The papers of modernist painter Ben Benn measure 6.3 linear feet and date from 1906 through 1977, with the bulk of the papers dating from circa 1920 - circa 1970. The collection includes correspondence between Benn and his wife Velida Benn and letters from Oscar Bluemner, Max Weber, Joseph Stella, and other artists. Also found are sketches, sketchbooks, diaries, scrapbooks, personal business records, clippings, photographs, exhibition catalogs, art journals, and auction catalogs. Some of the printed material is quite rare.
The papers of woodworker, sculptor, and furniture designer Garry Knox Bennett measure 12.4 linear feet, 0.446 gigabytes, and date from 1917 to 2017 with the bulk of the material dating from 1960 to 2017. The collection documents the artist's life and career through biographical materials, correspondence with family and friends including other artists, exhibition files, professional files, financial and legal records, and printed material and scrapbooks recording his exhibition history and more, including photographs from his youth.
The papers of Swedish-born painter and collagist Siri Berg measure 1.1 linear feet and date from 1966 to 1998. The bulk of the collection consists of studies for artwork, and may include paint color choices and samples, sketches, plans, and notes. Also found are scattered correspondence, photographs, printed material, and a video recording of Berg in her SoHo studio.
The Wallace Berman papers date from 1907 to 1979 (bulk 1955-1979). The collection measures 5 linear feet and presents a cursory overview of Berman's career as an assemblage artist and poet. The collection contains business correspondence, letters from other artists and writers of the Beat movement, writings by others, scattered artwork by Berman, photographs by Robert F. Heinecken, and sound recordings of poetry readings.
This collection of Forrest Bess photographs and slides consists of 20 photographs, 38 slides, and 38 negatives, and dates from circa 1981. 20 color prints and 31 slides are of works of art by Forrest Bess; some, if not all, are from the collection of Harry Burkhart of Bay City, Texas. Negatives are labeled "Fridge Curtis" and are also of artwork by Bess. Also found are 5 slides of works by Bess from the Hawkins Ranch collection, and 2 slides of works from the Margaret and Austen Furse collection.
The papers of government arts administrator and novelist Livingston L. Biddle, Jr. (1918-2002) measure 40.2 linear feet and date from circa 1940 to 2002. The papers are comprised of biographical materials, correspondence, interviews, writings, numerous files reflecting his work to establish the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA), political committee files, personal legal records, printed materials, scrapbooks, and photographs. Throughout the collection are video and sound recordings.
The papers of illustrator, writer and collector Ilse Martha Bischoff measure 1.2 linear feet and date from 1893-1981. Found are scattered personal and business records, correspondence, pencil and watercolor sketches, notes and writings, printed material and photographs. Correspondence is primarily with family members and colleagues including Paul Cadmus and Jared French. Photographs are of Bischoff, her family, and colleagues including Paul Cadmus and Jared French.
The letters from artist Nell Blaine and her friend New York bookseller Robert A. Wilson measure 0.6 linear feet and date from 1962 to 2010. Additional material includes scattered business records, photographs, printed material, and a typescript of Blaine's journal.
The Bland Gallery letters collection dates from 1931-1953, and comprises 60 items, primarily letters, discussing the collection and sale of miniature portraits.
The papers of painter Lucile Blanch (1895-1981) measure 0.5 linear feet and date from circa 1898 to 1963. The scattered papers comment on Blanch's relationships with her husband Arnold Blanch, her sister Beatrice Lundquist, and fellow artists. Found are biographical material, correspondence, a diary fragment by Beatrice Lundquist, and photographs.
The scattered papers of painter Dorothy Block measure 0.7 linear feet and date from 1925 to 1982. Found are biographical materials, correspondence, photographs of Block and of works of art, printed material, a mixed media scrapbook, sketches, and writings. Also found are clippings and a photo of the artwork of Louis Keila, Block's uncle.
The papers of New York and Connecticut painter Peter Blume date from 1870 to 2001 and measure 7.6 linear feet. Found are biographical materials; correspondence with family, friends, colleagues, galleries and institutions, and writers; writings on art by Blume and others; subject files regarding organizations, works of art, exhibitions, and reference files; personal business records; printed material; two scrapbooks; photographs of Blume, family, friends, and works of art; extensive artwork; and material relating to Blume's wife's family, the Cratons.
The papers of African American sculptor Chakaia Booker measure 2.3 linear feet and date from 1981 to 2018 with the bulk of the collection dating from 1994 to 2010. The collection consists primarily of printed material, but also includes selected correspondence and professional files, including a portfolio.
The Solon H. Borglum and Borglum family papers date from 1864 to 2002 and measure 11.5 linear feet. The collection documents Solon Borglum's personal life and his career as a sculptor specializing in Western themes through biographical material, family and general correspondence, writings and notes, research for his biography, financial and business letters, printed material, photographs and artwork.
The papers of painter Henry Botkin measure 3 linear feet, date from circa 1927-1982, and illustrate his career through biographical material, correspondence, writings, personal business records, printed and photographic material, and artwork.
The papers of painter and muralist Louis Bouché measure 5.9 linear feet and date from 1880 to 2007. Found within the papers are biographical material; personal correspondence, including correspondence from the extended Bouché family; writings; financial records; printed material; four scrapbooks; artwork; and photographs of Bouché, his family and friends, and his work.
The papers of wildlife illustrator, painter, and cartoonist Paul Bransom measure 10.1 linear feet and date from 1862 to 1985. Almost half of the collection is comprised of Bransom's correspondence, which is particularly rich in documenting his early career as an illustrator, and his relationships with authors, art editors, and publishers from the 1900s to the 1940s. Correspondence also contains a wealth of cards, many of which bear reproductions or original artwork by his many artist friends. Also found in the papers are biographical essays, certificates and awards, memorabilia, writings and notes, business files, bibliographies, an artwork inventory, exhibition catalogs, clippings, printed illustrations, pamphlets, photographs, scrapbooks, and original artwork.
The papers of the sculptor Michael Brenner measure 0.4 linear feet and date from 1888 to 1976. The collection includes letters, scrapbooks, drawings, photographs and other materials documenting Michael Brenner's career, the activities of members of the Brenner family, and the colony of expatriate American artists flourishing in Paris in the early twentieth century.
The collection consists of two Dorothy Bridaham scrapbooks dating from 1938 to 1964. The scrapbooks contain material concerning Bridaham's career as an art critic.
The scattered papers of painter Fritzi Broad measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1932 to 1977. The papers consist of books, photographs of works of art, resumes, and a mixed media scrabook documenting Fritzi Brod's career and the Chicago art scene from the early 1920s to the early 1950s.
The papers of Abstract Expressionist painters James Brooks and Charlotte Park measure 18.7 linear feet and are dated 1909-2010, bulk 1930-2010. Correspondence, subject files, personal business records, printed material, and a sound recording document his painting career, interests, professional and personal activities. Also found are biographical materials, interviews, writings, and art work. The collection also includes papers of his wife, Abstract Expressionist painter Charlotte Park, regarding her painting career, personal life, activities as executor of James Brooks' estate, and some material concerning the James Brooks and Charlotte Park Brooks Foundation. There is a 1.4 linear foot addition to this collection donated in 2017 that includes 58 "week-at-a-glance" appointment books, three journals and one address/ telephone book of Charlotte Park; a hand written chronology with significant dates and notes; postcards and exhibition announcements sent to Charlotte and James; doodles; and a sketch, possibly by Don Kingman.
The papers of sculptor and portrait painter Henry Kirke Brown measure 1 linear feet and date from 1836 to 1893. The collection includes Brown's correspondence with his wife, Lydia Louise Udall, his nephew, Henry Kirke Bush-Brown, and other family members. Also included are letters from artists George Catlin, George Fuller, Sanford R. Gifford, James Reid Lambdin, Louis Lang, Erastus Dow Palmer, Hiram Powers, Horatio Stone, and others; five news clippings; and miscellaneous notes.
The papers of painter, sculptor, and performance artist Robert Delford Brown measure 3.9 linear feet and 7.98 GB and date from 1964-2009. The papers document his career as an artist and in particular the arts space "church" he founded in New York City, known as The First National Church of Exquisite Panic, Inc. The collection consists of biographical material, correspondence, church records, printed and digital material, photographic material, and video records of performance art. Brown's early career is documented in one scrapbook containing photographs, notes, press materials, and select artwork and documentation of ephemeral and performance artworks.
The Buehr family papers date from 1880-1984 and measure 0.7 linear feet. The collection documents the lives and careers of a prominent Chicago family of artists, which included Karl Albert Buehr, his wife Mary Hess Buehr, their children Kathleen Buehr Granger and George F. Buehr, and Karl Buehr's brother-in-law, Will Hess. Found among the papers are biographical accounts, family histories, Karl Buehr's personal and professional correspondence, love letters between Karl and Mary Hess, writing by various family members, printed materials, artwork in the form of drawings by Kathleen Buehr Granger, and family and travel photographs, including two photo albums.
The papers of sculptor Beniamino Bufano measure 2.7 linear feet and date from circa 1910 to 1972. The collection sheds light on the artist's career through personal and professional papers, printed materials, photographic materials, and scrapbooks that contain primarily letters, clippings, and photographs.
The Dennis Miller Bunker collection of letters, an exhibition catalog, and photographs measures 0.4 linear feet and dates from 1882 to 1943, with the bulk of the material dating from 1882 to 1890. Most of the collection consists of letters to Bunker's friend Joseph Evans (46 letters) in New York City, written between 1882-1889. Four volumes of letterpress books, circa 1889-1890, contain letters to Bunker's fiancée Eleanor Hardy prior to their marriage in the fall of 1890, and his untimely death a few months later. There are also a 1943 exhibition catalog and three photographs of Bunker.
The letters of artist, cataloguer, and conservator, Xenia Cage to Milton Sonday measure 0.4 linear feet and dates from 1968-1995. Included are letters, postcards, and small collages sent from Cage to Sonday. The collection also includes five cards addressed to Gillian Moss and two addressed to Lucy Block, both of whom were also curators in the Cooper-Hewitt's textile department.
The papers of Holger Cahill (1887-1960) date from 1910 to 1993, with the bulk of the material dating from 1910-1960, and measure 15.8 linear feet. The collection offers researchers fairly comprehensive documentation of Cahill's directorship of the Works Progress/Projects Administration's (WPA) Federal Art Project (FAP) in addition to series documenting his work as a writer and art critic. Material includes correspondence, reports, artist files, scrapbooks, printed material, and photographs.
The papers of abstract kinetic artist and sculptor Alexander Calder measure 2.6 linear feet and date from 1926 to 1967. Found within the papers are scattered biographical materials, correspondence, printed materials, photographs, scattered prints and sketches by Calder, and a scrapbook. Of particular interest are the numerous photographs of Calder, including many of Calder at work in his studios, with his family at their home in Touraine, France, exhibitions, and artwork. Among the photographs are several taken by photographer and artist Herbert Matter and a photograph of Pierre Matisse at Calder's home.
The papers or curator and writer John Caldwell measure 1.7 linear feet and date circa 1909 to 1996. The collection documents Caldwell's life and career through a variety of materials, such as biographical material including legal papers relating to the Caldwell Estate, letters from friends and colleagues, writings by Caldwell such as a draft version of a speech and draft essays, printed material including articles written by Caldwell for the New York Times, photographs of Caldwell, family members, dealers, donors, and artists, as well as a video recording documenting the 1985 Carnegie International.
The California Art Club guest register and scrapbooks measure 1.5 linear feet and date from 1916 to 1961. Included are guest registers spanning 1927 to 1931; a Year Book 1916 of the California Art Club containing images of member artwork and essays; and eleven scrapbooks with clippings, exhibition materials, club bulletins, and place settings.
The papers of sculptor Bessie S. Callender measure 0.8 linear feet and date from circa 1880s-1955. The papers focus on Callender's personal life and travel and include biographical materials, two books, correspondence, and photographs.
The papers of painter, dollmaker, and arts administrator Kimberly Camp measure 9.0 linear feet and date from circa 1970 to 2012. The papers comprise biographical materials, including recordings of interviews with Camp; 12 journals/sketchbooks containing notes on professional activities and sketches; professional files documenting many aspects of Camp's career; printed materials featuring exhibitions of Camp's artwork and other material related to Camp's work as an artist and arts administrator; photographic materials including digital recordings of exhibitions; and unidentified audiovisual materials.
The papers of art critic and art museum curator Carolyn Kinder Carr measure 0.4 linear feet and date from 1967 to 1980. The scattered papers relate to Carr's career as an art critic for the Akron Beacon Journal in the late 1960s to the 1970s. Found are four dismantled scrapbooks containing clippings of Carr's column, letters in response to her critiques, and travel expense records.
The records of Carus Gallery measure 3.2 linear feet and date from 1967-2002. This collection documents Dorothea Carus Isserstedt's management of the New York gallery through a small amount of business and personal correspondence; business records regarding acquisitions, sales, and consignments; intentories of artwork and rare books; exhibition catalogs, press clippings, and other printed material; and photographs depicting artwork and exhibition installations.
The papers of Timothy Casper measure 3.4 linear feet and date from 1943-1981, with bulk dates from 1950-1969. The papers document Casper's career and life which was cut short when he died from a car crash at age twenty-one. Included are biographical material; correspondence between Casper and his mother Elise Casper Ott, and from Elise to others regarding Timothy's artistsic legacy; writings; exhibition files; personal business records; printed material; photographic material and artwork.
This small collection of sixty-three letters written by painter Mary Cassatt dates from 1882 to 1926. The bulk of these letters are to Cassatt's nephew, Robert Kelso Cassatt, and to his wife Minnie regarding family, mutual friends, and travel. The remaining letters are to friends regarding purchases of artwork, travel, and personal news. There is also one newsclipping of Cassett's obituary.
The scattered papers of sculptor and painter Elenora S. Chambers measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1955 to 1993. Found are biographical material, correspondence with Florida arts organizations, a photograph and slides, printed material, a sketchbook, and writings and notes.
The papers of filmmaker, photographer, painter, printmaker, teacher, and arts advocate Maryette Charlton measure 81 linear feet and date from circa 1890 to 2013. This particularly rich collection includes biographical materials, correspondence, writings, 30 diaries, teaching files, professional and project files, major film project files, artist research files, exhibition files, printed material, scrapbooks, artwork, 22 sketchbooks, extensive photographic materials, numerous sound and film recordings, a digitized sound recording, and an unintegrated later addition to the papers containing additional biographical materials, journals, correspondence, subject files, printed materials, and scattered photographs.
The photographs of painter Edwin Burrage Child measure 2.2 linear feet and date from 1902-1936. Included in this collection are original photographic prints and copy prints; 101 negatives; 59 glass plate negatives; and one folder of miscellaneous papers including a sketch by Edwin Burrage Child. Photographs depict artwork, interiors, furniture, and people.
The records of Christine Burgin Gallery, a New York City gallery representing conceptual artists from the United States and Europe, measure 18 linear feet and 52.28 GB, and date from 1980-2016. The collection documents the gallery's activities, projects, and relationships with artists through administrative files and business records, artist files, exhibition files, and client files. Artist files comprise nearly half of the collection and contain correspondence with artists and project files for numerous publications and editions the gallery produced in collaboration with artists. Some material is in born-digital form, including images of artwork and installations, slide shows, document files, as well as audiovisual recordings. The collection also contains two analog video recordings. Files dating from after the gallery's closure include additional correspondence, invoices, and project files.
The papers of photographer, painter, sculptor, and educator William Christenberry (1936-2016) measure 7.3 linear feet and 14.76 GB and date from circa 1917-2018, with the bulk of the records dating from 1960-2018. The collection sheds light on Christenberry's career through personal papers, gallery and museum files, professional files, personal business records, printed and digital material, photographs, artwork, and sound and video recordings about his work.
The Frederick Stuart Church letters and art work date from circa 1892-circa 1923 and measure 0.5 linear feet. The collection includes illustrated letters, all but three of which are written to Emma Louise Klots, regarding Church's daily activities and his paintings, as well as artwork by Church including etchings and reproductions of Church's paintings, some of which are printed as photogravures.
This small collection of items of New York painter Frederick Stuart Church, measures 0.1 linear feet and dates from circa 1895-1905. It includes letters, some illustrated, from Church to various people, a sketch, and a photograph of one of Church's paintings.
The Raymond Ciarrocchi papers measure 0.9 linear feet and date from 1953-2010. Correspondence and business records document Ciarrocchi's traveling exhibition, "The Nijinsky Series," and his relationships with Tibor de Nagy Gallery and Fischbach Gallery. Also found are four sketchbooks, a thesis about American landscape painting in which Ciarrocchi figures prominently, printed material, and photographs of Ciarrocchi.
The papers of painter, printmaker and muralist Minna Wright Citron measure 1.3 linear feet and date from 1930 to 1980. Found are scattered biographical materials, correspondence, writings for articles and lectures, printed material, photographs, and artwork.
The scattered papers of illustrator and artists' model Judith Clancy measure 0.7 linear feet and date from 1949 to 1977. Largely arranged by Clancy, the papers focus on her work as an illustrator. Found are biographical materials, books edited and written by Clancy, correspondence, photographs, printed material, sketches, and cards designed by Clancy.
The scrapbooks of Thomas Benedict Clarke measure 3.6 linear feet and date from 1879-1930. Twelve scrapbooks contain mostly newspaper clippings, but also include correspondence, invitations, exhibition catalogs, programs, magazine articles, art auction catalogs, and other material relating to Clarke's personal art collection and general art patronage. The scrapbooks also include clippings and miscellany relating to the Clarke family and influential society clubs, such as the Union League, Lambs, and New York Athletic clubs.
The papers of painter, etcher, printer, muralist, and art teacher Gabrielle de Veaux Clements measure 1 linear foot and date from 1860 to 1948. Found within the papers are biographical material; personal and professional correspondence, including extensive correspondence from Clements to her mother; writings, including notes and essays on art history and etching techniques; printed material; artwork; eight sketchbooks; and photographs of Clements, her family and friends, and her work.
The papers of New York painter William Clutz measure 3.1 linear feet and date from 1930-2016. The collection consists of biographical material, correspondence, personal business records, printed material, photographic material, artworks, and twelve sketchbooks which illuminate the career and artistic development of Clutz, a painter known for depictions of figures in urban settings. The photographic material is particularly robust and includes hundreds of photographs, slides, transparencies, and digital images of Clutz, family, friends, his painting, as well as documentation of exhibition installations. Artwork and sketchbooks in pencil, pastel, and charcoal provide a glimpse into the preliminary stages of his work process.
The papers of painter, printmaker, educator and administrator Ed Colker are dated 1944-2020 and measure 3.4 linear feet. Colker's painting, printmaking, and Haybarn Press, as well as his career as an art teacher and university administrator, are documented through biographical materials, correspondence, interviews, writings, subject files, printed material, and photographs. There is a 0.2 linear ft. addition to the collection donated in 2020 that includes lists of works of art, exhibition information, letters to Colker, talks and lecutres by Colker, printed material and miscellany.
The papers of art historian and museum curator W.G. (William George) Constable measure 25.7 linear feet and date from 1905 to 1981, with the bulk of the material from 1920 to 1976. The papers include biographical material; professional and personal correspondence; extensive lectures, writings, and notes; exhibition and book research files; printed materials; and photographs, glass plate negatives, and slides. There is substantive correspondence related to Constable's participation in the American Defense Harvard Group and about the formation of the Roberts Commission, including correspondence with Ralph Perry, Hugh Hencken, Paul Sachs and George L. Stout. There are numerous official reports prepared by Constable after World War II for the U. S. Office of Military Government for Germany.
The papers of art historian Belisario Contreras measure 0.5 linear feet and date from 1943 to 1984. The papers document his research on New Deal Art Projects, including correspondence and copies of correspondence with William C. Agee, George Biddle (including 16 photographs of murals in Mexico City and Washington, D.C. and a clipping), Mrs. Edward Bruce, Olin Dows, Maria Ealand, Arlene Jacobowitz, Masha Zakheim Jewett (including an exhibition catalog and clippings on Bernard Baruch Zakheim), Horace Kallen, Rockwell Kent, Chet LaMore, Merwin C. Phelps, David W. Scott, Harold Weston, and others. Also found are National Endowment for the Humanities grant proposals "NDA Projects in Pennsylvania," 1975, and "Images of the Heartland," 1980, and notes from Contreras' interviews with Maria Ealand, John Gernand, Jacob Kainen, Dorothy Miller, and Selma Rein.
The scattered papers of Irish-born painter Kathleen Cooke measure 0.4 linear feet and date from 1969-1979. Cooke's papers include biographical materials, correspondence, photographs, printed material, and scattered sales records.
The papers of Dean Cornwell measure 3.9 linear feet and date from circa 1893-1981. They illustrate his career through biographical material, correspondence, writings, printed and photographic material, and artwork.
The scattered papers of art and music patron and educator Olive Thompson Cowell measure 0.5 linear feet and date from circa 1940 to 1982. Found are biographical materials including sound recordings, a photo album and snapshots, and files on artists including Claire Falkenstein, Trude Guermonprez, and Frans and Marguerite Wildenhain.
The papers of Kenyon and Louise Cox measure 0.3 linear feet and date from 1876 to 1977. Included are Kenyon and Louise's Certificate of Marriage, autobiographical notes by Louise focusing on her time at the National Academy of Design, writings, and correspondence, primarily from Kenyon Cox, including several illustrated letters. Also found is artwork by Kenyon and others, including Julian Alden Weir, biographical material on Jacob Dolson Cox, Keyon's Father, photographs and printed reproductions of artwork, magazine and newspaper clippings, an unpublished bibliography on Kenyon Cox, and a handwritten list of Kenyon Cox paintings in the National Academy of Design permanent collection.
The Cranmer Art Group records, circa 1980-2021, measure 74 linear feet and document the professional activities of art conservator Dana Cranmer and her art conservation studio, the Cranmer Art Group (CAG). The earliest records date from 1980 to 1987, when Cranmer was conservator for the Mark Rothko Foundation. The bulk of the collection consists of client files that document the work of Cranmer and her studio from 1988 until its closure in 2021. CAG worked closely with artists and artists' estates, as well as foundations, galleries, museums, auction houses, and private collectors.
The papers of art critic Thomas Craven measure approximately .7 linear feet and date from 1919 through 1949 and 1975. The collection consists primarily of a dismantled scrapbook (1925 1949; 1975) containing newspaper clippings of Craven's articles and writings which span his career. Also found within the scrapbook are reviews by Oscar Bluemner and Byron Browne of Craven's two anti-modernist books, Men of Art and Modern Art. The collection also contains four letters concerning publications, a typescript essay about Thomas Craven's early career, two files of scattered writings in manuscript form, two bound handwritten manuscript versions of A Treasury of Art Masterpieces (1939), and Greek Art (1950), and miscellaneous loose newsclippings.
The papers of Connecticut painter, educator, photographer, and watercolorist Roger Crossgrove measure 21.1 linear feet and date from 1888 to 2012 with the bulk of the collection dating from 1950 to 2006. The collection consists of biographical material, correspondence, writings and notes, professional files, teaching files, subject files, exhibition files, printed materials, personal business records, artwork, sketchbooks, and photographic materials.
The scattered papers of Leah Curtiss-Gould measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1918 to 1985. Primarily, the papers relate to silversmith Arthur J. Stone, his company of silversmiths, Stone Associates, and their business relationship with the Curtiss Gallery. Found are biographical materials, correspondence, drawings by Stone and his associates, printed material, and photographs.
The papers of ceramist William P. Daley measure 26.3 linear feet and date from 1905-2016 (bulk 1951-2001). The collection documents Daley's career as both artist and teacher through biographical information, correspondence, exhibition files, project files, material on workshops, seminars, and lectures, teaching files, artist files, reference files, printed material, photographs, financial files, and artwork.
There is an 11.1 linear foot unprocessed addition to this collection donated in 2022 that includes project, exhibition and book files; photographs and slides of works of art, Daley and events; printed material; writings; awards and honors; lectures; drawings; kiln logs; notebooks; audio cassettes, CDs and DVDs; files on artists and miscellany regarding William P. Daley. Materials date from circa 1959-2016.
The papers of Los Angeles art critic and writer, art historian, professor, collector, and artist Fidel Danieli (1938-1988) measure 8.4 linear feet and date from 1962 to 1987. Found within the papers are writing and research files, and 108 sound recordings of interviews with or about 45 Los Angeles artists conducted by Danieli in 1974-1975 for the U.C.L.A. oral history project "L.A. Community Artists." There are also sound recordings of art performances and art talks, and printed materials, including numerous exhibition announcements.
The papers of painter Andrew Dasburg and his wife and sculptor Grace Mott Johnson date from 1833 to 1980 (bulk 1900 to 1980), and measure 8.8 linear feet. The collection documents each artist's career and personal lives, including their brief marriage and their friendships with many notable artists in the New Mexico and New York art colonies during the early twentieth century. The papers of Dasburg (6 linear feet) and Johnson (2.8 linear feet) include biographical materials; extensive correspondence with family, friends, and fellow artists, such as John F. Carlson, Mabel Dodge Luhan, Marsden Hartley, Henry Lee McFee, and Ward Lockwood; writings by Dasburg, Johnson, and others; scattered legal, financial, and business records; clippings; exhibition materials; numerous photographs of Johnson and Dasburg, friends, family, and artwork; and original artwork, including two sketchbooks by Johnson.
The papers of painters Don Raymond David and Andrée Golbin measure 3.6 linear feet, date from circa 1920-1980, and illustrate their lives and careers through biographical material, correspondence, writings, personal business records, printed and photographic material, and artwork.
The papers of New York-based, Argentinian born conceptual and performance artist Jaime Davidovich, measure 2.3 linear feet and date from 1949 to 2014. The collection document's Davidovich's transition from Argentina to the United States, his early artistic career in both countries, specific projects and exhibitions, and the way in which Davidovich's work intersected with audiovisual media and the New York avant-garde in the 1960s and 1970s. Papers include biographical materials, correspondence, writings including memoirs, exhibition and project files, scrapbooks, and printed materials.
The papers of painter, photographer, and filmmaker James Edward Davis measure 3.8 linear feet and date from circa 1917-1970. They highlight Davis's career through biographical material, correspondence, writings, personal business records, printed and photographic material, and artwork.
The scattered papers of painter Jean Davidson measure 0.4 linear feet and date from 1959 to 1995. Found are biographical material, correspondence, drawings, notes, photographs, and printed material. Also found is a video recording of an interview with Davidson conducted by David Howard.
The papers of sculptor Janet DeCoux date from 1895-2000 and measure 3.92 linear feet. The collection documents DeCoux's career through scattered biographical material, correspondence, audio cassette tapes of an autobiographical narrative, an interview transcript, miscellaneous notes and writings, sketchbooks and drawings, files for commissioned sculpture projects, printed material, photographs of DeCoux, family members, friends, colleagues, and artwork.
The papers of printmaker and painter Adolf Dehn measure 6.6 linear feet and date from 1912-1987. The collection contains extensive correspondence, as well as writings, exhibition announcements, catalogs, clippings, invoices, receipts, legal documents, scrapbooks, artwork, and photographs. There is also scattered correspondence of Virginia Dehn, mostly concerning her husband Adolf Dehn.
The papers of sculptor Dorothy Dehner measure 4 linear feet and date from 1920 to 1987, with the bulk of the material dating from 1951 to 1987. The collection documents Dehner's life, work, and professional and personal relationships, with particular focus on her mid-to-late career. Papers include extensive correspondence, business and financial papers, sound recordings and transcripts of interviews, writings by Dehner and others, printed material documenting Dehner's career, scattered photographs, two etchings, and scattered personal papers and material relating to David Smith.
Found here is one letter to museum director Charles Nagel written by artist Beauford Delaney, dated February 16th, 1967. In this letter, Beauford Delaney thanks Charles Nagel for his kindness to artists. Delaney also mentions Madame Breeskin [Adelyn Breeskin].
The papers of painter Helen DeMott measure 7.9 linear feet and date from 1896-1997. DeMott's painting career from 1940-1996 is documented through her numerous sketchbooks and original artwork. Also found is biographical material, correspondence, writings and poems, scrapbooks, printed material, photographic material, audio and video recordings, and scattered material from collagist Ray Johnson.
The Mount Rushmore monument photographic transparencies measure 0.04 linear feet and date from circa 1938 to 1939. The color transparencies depict the construction of the presidential portraits atop Mount Rushmore. Several show the sculptor, Gutzon Borglum, and others at work on the project.
The papers of New York art dealer, writer and teacher Martin Diamond measure 3.2 linear feet and date from 1928 to 2013. The materials involve to a limited degree Diamond's wife, Harriette Diamond, co-owner and co-operator of Martin Diamond Fine Arts, Inc. Their gallery work and relationships with artists they represented are documented by writings, subject and artist files, and photographic materials. Subject files concern American abstract art, particularly the 20th century Transcendental abstract painters, and include printed materials, correspondence and photographic materials. Artists' files include similar materials and some writings by artists. Photographic materials are of artworks and exhibition installations.
The papers of Dominic Di Mare measure 3.2 linear feet and date from 1950 to 2003. The collection provides an overview of Di Mare's career as a fiber artist through biographical information, correspondence, writings, printed material, artwork, and photographs.
The papers of Cuban born American painter Humberto Dionisio measure 2.7 linear feet and date from 1919 to 1990. The collection primarily documents Dionisio's relationships with his family, particularly his mother, through letters, photographs, financial records, printed material, and family memorabilia collected by Dionisio himself and by his mother, Zaida Ortega Dominguez.
The collection measures 6.8 linear feet and 0.263 GB, dates from 1934 to 2005, and documents the career of sculptor Mark di Suvero and family relationships. Found within the papers are biographical material; letters to and from di Suvero family members; scattered writings by di Suvero and Marie Louise Martignoni di Suvero, the artist's sister, about Mark di Suvero; drawings; a file on the Socrates Sculpture Park; a file on artist Helen Lessick, an acquaintance of Mark di Suvero; exhibition files; printed material; photographs of the artist, artwork, and members of the di Suvero family; audio and video recordings of interviews with di Suvero; and promotional Tee Shirts.
There is an unprocessed addition to this collection donated in 2022 that includes a WordPerfect transcript in electronic format of an unpublished play Crescent Moon, Yellow Star, but Henry (Hank) di Suvero, 2004.
The papers of New York City painter, educator, gallery owner, and activist Lois Dodd date from 1945 to 2013 and measure 6.82 linear feet. The papers focus on Dodd's personal work and contain little documentation of her involvement with Tanager Gallery. Found are biographical materials, including an interview conducted by Pat Mainardi in 1973; personal business records; professional correspondence; project and teaching files for Artist Housing Projects and various teaching positions; scattered writings and notes; printed materials including exhibition catalogs and announcements; and photographs.
The 2014 and 2015 additions date from 1945-2013 and provide additional material related to Dodd's career as a painter and educator. Found here are biographical material; correspondence with friends and artists; writings by others; project and teaching files; personal business records; printed material; photographical material of artwork and Dodd; eleven travel sketchbooks; and a few pieces of artwork by George Schneeman.
The papers of Detroit-based architect John M. Donaldson measures 0.11 linear feet and consists of 31 items that date from 1873 to 1938. The papers include a letter from Frank Duveneck, 1877; a sketch of Donaldson, ca. 1876, by [James] Carroll Beckwith, alongside a note from Beckwith, 1913; letters from Gari Melchers, some of which are illustrated; obituary clippings on Melchers; photographs in the form of carte de visites, mostly of fellow art students in Munich, 1873-1877, including Francis Davis Millet and Frank Duveneck; and miscellany. Also included are several letters from Gari Melchers's wife Corrine to Donaldson's son, Bruce.
The records of the Dorothy Weiss Gallery measure 18.7 linear feet and date from circa 1964 to 2001 (bulk 1984-2000). The collection documents the gallery's relationships with approximately three hundred artists, through artist files, exhibition files, and subject files, and is an excellent source of information on the work of contemporary ceramic and glass sculptors.
The Jerry Dreva papers measures 1.0 linear foot and dates from circa 1963-1982. The papers include biographical information; rare printed material; scrapbooks; correspondence consisting of letters of support for the exhibition DREVA/GRONK 1968-78: Ten Years of Art/Life (Los Angeles Contemporary Exhibitions, 1978) and mail art; zines and small artist books exchanged with collaborators and friends; material documenting Dreva's relationship with performance artist, Gronk, including staged photographs, candid snapshots, correspondence, and ephemera, chronicling their shared practice, and the glam Hollywood, activist Chicana/o, and queer scenes in 1970s and 80s Los Angeles. Also included are two small labeled vinyl albums, one of which appears to have been used in a piece of artwork.
The papers of painter, printmaker, designer, and teacher, Werner Drewes, measure 15.76 linear feet and date from 1838-2015, with the bulk of the material dating from the 1890s-1990s. The papers document Drewes' life and career through biographical and family material; correspondence with family members, artists, galleries, and art institutions and organizations; scattered teaching notes and writings including a diary; catalogs and inventories of artwork; three scrapbooks; printed material; 38 sketchbooks, loose sketches, and prints; and photographs of Drewes, his family, friends and colleagues, exhibitions, travels, and works of art. Also found are scattered papers of Drewes' second wife, Maria Drewes.
The papers of painter and art critic Guy Pène Du Bois measure 2.0 linear feet and date from circa 1900 to 1963 with the bulk of the materials dating from 1920 to 1963. Found within the papers are biographical material; personal and professional correspondence, including letters from Royal Cortissoz and Edward Hopper; writings, including essays, journals, short stories, and drafts of the autobiography Artists Say the Silliest Things; personal business records; printed material; and artwork.
The papers of painter and teacher Frank Duveneck and his wife and painter Elizabeth Boott Duveneck measure 1.2 linear feet and date from 1851-1972, bulk 1851-1919. Aspects of the lives and work of the artists are documented in correspondence, creative writings, research notes, scrapbooks, newspaper clippings, magazine articles, ephemera, sketches and sketchbooks, and vintage photographs.
The papers of Los Angeles conceptual sculptor, painter, and photographer Doug Edge measure 2.9 linear feet and date from circa 1951 to 2017. The collection includes exhibition and project files, illustrated journals, writings, printed material, photographic material, and artwork. There is a 0.2 linear foot unprocessed addition to this collection donated in 2021 that includes a self published book and notes, dating from 1969-2020.
This small collection of papers of New York City art dealer Takis Efstathiou papers regarding Los Angeles artist Ynez Johnston measure 0.8 linear feet and date from 1954-2004. The papers include correspondence with Johnston and with institutions regarding Johnston's work and career, a few business records from the Ericson Gallery (owned by Efstathiou), printed material about Johnston, and photographic material of Johnston's artwork and of the artist at home, in her studio, and of the exhibition opening organized by Efstathiou at Ericson Gallery in 1979.
The photographs of San Francisco photographer William J. Eisenlord measure 0.3 linear feet and date from 1953-1976. Photographs depict the City Lights Bookstore of San Francisco, California and the exhibition opening of "Poets of the Cities" at the San Francisco Museum of Art in 1976. Also included are photographs of jazz and beat poetry performances taken by Ed Nyberg in 1957.
The scattered papers of sculptor Lily Ente measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1946 to 1975. The papers include correspondence, personal business records, three photographs, and printed material.
The letters relating to painter and sculptor Max Ernst's American citizenship status measure 0.01 linear feet and date from circa 1957. Correspondence is mainly between Ernst's wife Dorothea (Tanning) and attorney John Frank regarding Max Ernst's efforts to retain American citizenship, which was jeopardized by the McCarren Act and Ernst's extended periods of residence abroad. Many of the letters provide details of Ernst's career and give a chronology of his travels. Included is one letter from Max Ernst to John Frank. All of the documents in this collection are photocopies.
The records of Ex Libris measure 2.0 linear feet and date from 1973-2007. Ex Libris was a New York City based antiquarian establishment that dealt in rare 20th century avant-garde books and periodicals, and was founded by Elaine Lustig Cohen and her husband Arthur A. Cohen. The records include professional files, sales records, printed material, and photographic material.
The papers of art historian and Monuments Man S. Lane Faison measure 5.1 linear feet and date from 1922 to 1981, bulk from 1950-1976. Faison was an art history professor at Williams College, Massachusetts and, during World War II, he was a member of the Art Looting Intelligence Unit (ALIU) of the U.S. Office of Strategic Services. The collection includes scattered correspondence; writings; teaching files; subject files on exhibitions and projects; artists files; and printed materials. There are two folders of documents and photographs related to Faison's World War II work in the U.S. Art Looting Intelligence Unit.
The papers of painter and assemblage artist Gary Falk measure 2.5 linear feet and 0.005 GB and date from circa 1955-2013. The papers document his career as an artist in New York through biographical material, including project proposals, student records, and items from his memorial service; a small amount of personal correspondence; four notebooks; exhibition files; printed material; photographs of Falk, Falk with friends, artwork, and travel; digital photographs of artwork; and original artwork, including drawings, collages, and two sketchbooks.
The Federal Art Project, Photographic Division collection dates from circa 1920-1965, with the bulk of the records spanning the active years of the Federal Art Project (FAP), 1935-1942. The collection comprises 12.4 linear feet of mostly photographic prints and negatives that document primarily artwork produced by artists employed by the FAP. A smaller number of photographs also document other programs of the FAP, such as art classes and community centers, exhibitions by children and adults, artwork installed in public buildings, project divisions, and demonstrations of art processes by FAP artists.
The scattered papers of painter and educator Dorothy Lubell Feigin measure 0.6 linear feet and date from 1923 to 1969. Found are sketches by Waldo Peirce, biographical material, correspondence, photographs of Feigin and of works of art, scattered printed material, and two mixed-media scrapbooks. Also found are materials regarding the Federation of Modern Painters and Sculptors including correspondence, exhibition records, printed material, and reports.
The letters of Los Angeles gallerist Rosamund Felsen measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1968-1977. Included are sixteen letters and two postcards, all but three of which are from Jasper Johns. The others are from Ellsworth Kelly, Al Ruppersberg, and Bob P. The warm casual letters from Johns describe the artist's interest in birds, gardens, and weather. He also discusses drawings and upcoming exhibitions. Folded into the letters are a black and white snapshot of Johns and one of Felsen, in both cases surrounded by others. Also included here is the panty hose box in which Felsen stored these letters.
The scattered papers of Marjorie Martinet measure 0.4 linear feet and date from 1870 to circa 1970. The bulk of the collection consists of letters from Beatrice Fenton to Martinet in which she discusses her love and feelings for Martinet, art, travel, and the memorial for their mutual friend, Emily Clayton Bishop. Also found are letters from others, biographical materials, photographs and negatives, and printed material. Of note are yearbooks from the Marjorie Martinet School of Art.
The papers of painter and printmaker Hortense Ferne date from 1840 to 1965 and measure 0.2 linear feet. This small collection consists of letters to Hortense Ferne, her collection of autographs of artists, and exhibition catalogs. Also found are letters to art collector Moses Tanenbaum, Ferne's father.
The exhibition records of the Contemporary Study Wing of the Finch College Museum of Art measure 20.9 linear feet and date from 1943 to 1975, with the bulk of records dating from the period its galleries were in operation, from 1964 to 1975. Over two-thirds of the collection consists of exhibition files, which contain a wide range of documentation including artist files, checklists, correspondence, writings, photographs, interviews, numerous films and videos, artist statements, printed materials, and other records. Also found within the collection are administrative records of the museum, artist files, and papers of the Contemporary Wing's director and curator, Elayne Varian, which were produced outside of her work at Finch College.
The papers of sculptors Jud Fine and Barbara McCarren measure 16.7 linear feet and 0.345 Gigabytes, and date from circa 1968-2009. The majority of the collection falls into project files, with other series including correspondence, writings, personal business, printed material, photographic material, and artwork.
The papers of author, consultant, and historian Oscar P. Fitzgerald measure 0.2 linear feet and are dated circa 2000. The collection consists of Fitzgerald's research material on furniture makers that includes over 100 completed Furniture Maker's Questionnaires recording the histories and accomplishments, influences, and marketing shop practices of respondents, and a paper by Fitzgerald titled "The Movers and Shakers and How They Got There."
The records of Boston picture frame company Foster Brothers measure 13 linear feet and date from 1875-1973 with the bulk of the material falling between 1893 and 1942. Correspondence, stock records, financial records, writings, miscellaneous business records, printed material, scrapbooks, and photographs document the history of this company that operated a factory, retail store, and wholesale and mail order businesses between 1893 and 1942. A small number of family papers are included, with items pre-dating and post-dating the business.
The papers of art critic and historian Alfred Victor Frankenstein measure 19.1 linear feet and date from 1875 to 1985. The bulk of the collection consists of Frankenstein's research and writing files on American painting, particularly artists working in the nineteenth-century. There are extensive files on artists John Haberle, William Michael Harnett, and William Sidney Mount. The collection also includes biographical material, correspondence, general writings and notes, professional activities files, personal business records, printed materials, photographs, and unidentified sound recordings.
The Emily A. Francis papers, circa 1910s-1969, measure 10 linear feet and include organizational records of Contemporary Arts and affiliated member organization, Collectors of American Art, Inc., founded and directed by Emily A. Francis in 1929 and 1937, respectively. The collection consists of biographical material, foundation and board materials, correspondence, artist files, gallery files, exhibition files, membership materials, business and financial material, printed material, scrapbooks, artwork, and photographs.
The Frank Lloyd Gallery records measure 0.8 linear feet and date from 1960 to 2003, with the bulk of records dating from 1988 to 2003. The records include correspondence, exhibition announcements and catalogs, magazine and newspaper clippings, mailers, press releases, a file for artist Beatrice Wood, and scant photographic materials.
The Frank K. M. Rehn Galleries records measure 21.8 linear feet and are dated 1858-1969 (bulk 1919-1968). The records consist mainly of business correspondence with collectors, artists, museums and arts organizations, colleagues, and others. A small amount of Frank K. M. Rehns personal correspondence and a few stray personal papers of individual artists are interfiled. Also included are financial records, scrapbooks, printed matter, miscellaneous records, and photographs documenting most of the history of a highly regarded New York City art gallery devoted to American painting.
The papers of Impressionist painter Frederick Carl Frieseke measure 0.3 and date from circa 1870s-1943, 1982, and 1996. This small collection contains scattered documentation of Frieseke's life through several biographical items, printed material, photographs of Frieseke and his family, and miscellany.
The Florence Forst papers regarding Sue Fuller measures 0.2 linear feet and date from 1958 to 1994. The bulk of the papers consist of letters written by Fuller to Forst and also include scattered biographical material, photographic material, and printed material.
The records of The Gallery Wall, Inc., measure 0.3 linear feet and date from 1976 to 1983. The records provide scattered documentation of the gallery's early history through printed material, slides, and two video recordings on Allan Houser and Dan Namingha, the two artists represented by the gallery at the time.
The papers of graphic artist, muralist, and activist Hugo Gellert measure 6.9 linear feet and date from 1916 to 1986. They document his career as an artist and organizer for the radical political left through an interview, legal papers, financial records, family papers, artifacts, correspondence, writings, organizational records, extensive printed materials (many of them illustrated by Gellert), photographs, and artwork.
The papers of sculptor and art instructor, Eugenie Gershoy, measure 7.2 linear feet and date from 1914 to 1983. The collection documents Gershoy's career through biographical material, correspondence, business records, notes, writings, artwork, printed material, and photographs.
The papers of collage artist Ilse Getz measure 3.4 linear feet and date from 1928 through 1999, with the bulk of the papers dating from circa 1947-circa 1990. Her personal life is reflected through biographical material including a genealogy of the Bechhold family; marriage and death certificates; and writings that include journals, artist statement, poems and notes. The collection contains letters from friends, artists, collectors, and museum and art gallery representatives; exhibition files; and printed material relating to Getz's exhibitions. Also found are photographs, slides and transparencies of artwork.
The Ruth Gikow papers measure 2 linear feet and date from 1933-1982. The papers document Gikow's life and career as a figurative painter and illustrator through biographical material; personal and professional correspondence with family, galleries, universities, and colleagues; autobiographical essays and writings on art broadly, lists of artwork and other writings; personal business files such as sale records and price lists; exhibition catalogs, news clippings, and other printed material; and photographs of Gikow and her artwork.
The papers of writer, art historian, and curator Constance Glenn measure 17.1 linear feet and 6.88 GB and date from the 1960s to 2014. The material documents Glenn's career through correspondence, writings, book project files, exhibition documentation, professional records, research files, printed and digital material, and some photographs. Also well documented is Glenn's tenure as Museum Director and educator at California State University, Long Beach.
The papers of New York artist Nancy Goldring measure 5.1 linear feet and 0.213 GB and date from circa 1950-2020. Her career and personal life are documented through biographical material; personal and professional correspondence; writings; project and exhibition files; printed and digital material; scrapbooks; artwork; and photographic material. Notable correspondents include Lawrence Alloway, Robert Lax, and Leo Steinberg. There is a 0.4 linear foot unprocessed addition to this collection donated in 2020 that includes printed material, artwork, correspondence (emails, handmade cards), poetry, photographs of friends and family, and misc. Materials date from circa 1967-2020.
The George Goodwin interviews relating to Frank Lloyd Wright measure 0.2 linear feet and date to 1992. Interviews conducted by Goodwin for the Frank Lloyd Wright Archives at Taliesin West, Scottsdale, Arizona, with architects, students, and clients who knew Wright and others who offer opinions on his work.
The papers of art historian, writer, and museum administrator Lloyd Goodrich measure 35.7 linear feet and date from 1884 to 1987 with the bulk of the material dating from 1927 to 1987. Materials include biographical material, extensive correspondence, writings and research files, organization and committee files, exhibition files, printed material, a scrapbook, and photographic material. The collection is particularly rich in research files on Winslow Homer, Thomas Eakins, Albert Pinkham Ryder, and Reginald Marsh, as well as correspondence with additional notable artists and art figures.
The papers of painter and educator Jacqueline Gourevitch measure 5.6 linear feet and date from 1946-2019 and document her education at Black Mountain College, Black Mountain, N.C., and the Art Students League; her teaching career; and exhibitions in Chicago and New York through biographical material, teaching files, personal and professional correspondence, gallery and exhibition files, and printed material.
The Dwinell Grant papers measure 0.8 linear feet and date from 1930 to 1988. The papers document Grant's career as a painter and filmmaker through awards and certificates, interviews, resumes, and other biographical material; correspondence with friends, colleagues, and art institutions; manuscripts and other writings; business records with Olympia Gallery and Martin Diamond Fine Arts and Graham Gallery; and brochures, exhibition announcements, exhibition catalogs, and other printed material.
The papers of Joseph J. Greenberg measure 0.5 linear feet and date from 1939-1989. The papers document Greenberg's career through biographical materials, including resumes and award certificates, professional correspondence, and printed material such as news clipping and exhibition catalogs. Also found is a scrapbook which contains clippings and catalogs, press releases, correspondence regarding his sculptures, a poem Greenberg wrote and notes. Photographic material contains photographs of Greenberg, his colleagues, and his artwork.
The papers of New York City sculptor and teacher Chaim Gross measure 21.1 linear feet and date from 1920-2004. The collection provides comprehensive documentation of Gross's career through biographical material, personal and professional correspondence with family, artists, writers, galleries, museums, educational institutions, and religious and philanthropic organizations, writings, personal business records, extensive printed and published material including motion picture film and video recordings of four documentaries, one hundred and fifteen sketchbooks spanning the bulk of Gross's career, and photographs of Gross, his family, many friends and colleagues from the art world, his studio, personal art collection, and works of art. An unprocessed addition of three sketchbooks was donated in 2020.
The papers of Karl Gruppe measure 3 linear feet and date from circa 1880-1985. They illustrate his career through biographical material, correspondence, project files, personal business records, and printed and photographic material.
The papers and photographs of Cuban born American photographer Ramón Guerrero measure 0.6 linear feet and date from 1978 to 1998. The collection is comprised of biographical material, correspondence, artist files, printed materials, and photographs by Guerrero that include portraits of Cuban American artists and several photographs relating to the Cuba-USA: The Next Generation exhibition in Chicago.
The Richard Haas papers measure 6 linear feet and are dated 1937 to 2012, bulk 1970-2012. His work and career as a muralist, printmaker, and educator are documented by correspondence, writings, printed material, sketchbooks, and photographs.
The papers of Greek American sculptor and educator Dimitri Hadzi measure 37.2 linear feet and date from 1910s-2007, with the bulk of records dating 1936-2007. The collection documents Hadzi's career through biographical material such as education records, World War II files, and some interviews; correspondence with family, artists, art historians, architects, and professional organizations; diaries, notebooks, and other writings; exhibition, gallery and museum, teaching, and project files; personal business records; clippings, exhibition ephemera, invitations, and other printed material; photographs of Hadzi, events and exhibitions, installations, foundries, and studios; some artwork; and audio recordings and motion picture films.
The Jean Halpert-Ryden and Edward Ryden letters measure 0.01 linear feet and consist of 42 items that date from 1981 to 1997. The bulk of the collection is correspondence, but there are also 2 short biographical summaries, and one clipping from 1991, and a career resume for Jean Halpert-Ryden. Among the correspondents are Hildegarde and Ernst Haas, Edith Hamlin, Ernie and Frances Barrish, and Myril Adler of Myril Adler Arts Workshop. A few letters pertain to Edward Ryden.
Twenty-nine letters from Otto and Gertrud Natzler to Hella Hammid and three postcards from Otto and Gail Reynolds Natzler to Hammid, 1963-1973 and undated.
Correspondence with artists kept by Russell Lynes in his capacity as managing editor of Harper's Magazine, measures one linear foot and dates from 1946 to 1965. The files consist primarily of correspondence with young artists and illustrators wishing to submit material to the magazine. Biographical notes from the magazine's "Personal and Otherwise" column about the artists whose material was accepted, clippings, scattered original artwork, and printed reproductions of artwork, are also included.
The papers of sculptor Sylvia Shaw Judson measure 4.3 linear feet and date from 1911 to 1975. Found are biographical materials, correspondence, writings, professional activities files, personal business records, printed material, and photographs of works of art.
The scattered papers of painter Martin Johnson Heade measure 0.4 linear feet and date from 1853 to 1904. The bulk of the collection consists of letters from his friend and fellow artist, Frederic Edwin Church between 1866-1899. Within the papers is an annotated sketchbook, circa 1853-1877, and a detailed handwritten notebook about hummingbirds dating from circa 1864 and circa 1881. Also found are a few letters and notes from others, deeds, and an 1865 exhibition catalog.
The papers of art collector and dealer Jimmy Hedges and the records of his Rising Fawn Folk Art Gallery measure 23.5 linear feet and 15.63 GB and date from 1969-2016, with the bulk of the material dating from 1991-2013. The collection documents Hedges's career as a dealer of outsider art and as an advocate for self-taught artists. Records include administrative and sales records, correspondence, artist files, collector and gallery files, exhibition and art fair files, regional files, printed and digital material, photographic material, and unidentified sound and video recordings. The bulk of the collection consists of artist files and color photographs documenting hundreds of artists that Hedges visited at their homes and studios, including Georgia Blizzard, Howard Finster, Homer Green, Bessie Harvey, Danny Hoskinson, Paul Lancaster, A.J. Mohammed, Charlie Simmons, Jimmy Lee Sudduth, Mose Tolliver, and Purvis Young, among many others.
The papers of ceramicists and educators Otto and Vivika Heino measure 2.3 linear feet and date from 1895 to 2002, with the bulk of the records dating from the 1940s to 2000. The material documents the lives and careers of Otto and Vivika Heino through a mix of personal and professional papers, printed material, a video recording of a documentary, and photographs.
The Glen Cooper Henshaw record book is an undated record book of 163 of Henshaw's paintings. Each painting in the record book has a snapshot and lists the dimensions, title, medium and color.
The records of Heritage Preservation's Rescue Public Murals program measure 1.2 linear feet and 10.68 GB and date from 2001 to 2013. The collection documents the assessment, restoration, and advocacy of several public outdoor murals throughout the country. Included are administrative records and project files containing email correspondence, project forms, press materials, photographs, technical specifications, and electronic records.
Elizabeth Hertz letters from artists measure 0.21 linear feet and date from 1943-2006. Thirty-five letters and cards, mainly from William and Marguerite Zorach, document daily activities, visits, and reference art exhibitions and lectures. Also included are a few cards and letters from Tessim and Peggy Zorach and Dahlov Ipcar, and one letter from the Dayton Art Institute where Zorach lectured in 1951, for which the visit was facilitated by Elizabeth Hertz.
There is a 12 item unprocessed addition to this collection donated in 2023 that includes twelve letters from Stanton Macdonald-Wright to Elizabeth Hertz. Materials date from 1967-1969.
The papers of artist and silent film actress Wilna Hervey and her lifelong companion painter Nan Mason date from 1883 through 1985 and measure 4.9 linear feet. The collection is comprised mostly of letters to Hervey and Mason from friends, colleagues, and Mason's father, Dan Mason, also a silent film actor. Also found are personal photographs and snapshots, Hervey's handwritten memoirs, as well as twelve folders of Dan Mason's papers.
The papers of curator and art historian Julia P. Herzberg measure 8.4 linear feet and 18.4 Gigabytes and date from 1977-2018. Included are Herzberg's files on exhibitions and artists containing correspondence, printed material, interview transcripts, and notes and drafts by Herzberg. Artists include Wilfredo Lam, Doris Salcedo, Ana Mendieta, and Jorge Tacla, and Catalina Parra, among others.
The scattered papers of miniature portrait painter Magda Heuermann measure 0.4 linear feet and date from 1876 to 1982. Found are biographical materials, correspondence, photographs, printed material, a scrapbook, and writings. Also found is a diary kept by Heuermann's father Henry William Heuermann.
The papers of landscape painter Aldro T. Hibbard measure 1.7 linear feet and date from 1914 to 1971. The papers document his career as a painter through correspondence; diaries, notes and other writings; awards, discussions, and other professional activity; clippings, exhibition catalogs, and other printed material; and personal sound recordings.
The Hooks-Epstein Galleries records measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1937 to 1980. This small collection includes an exhibition list, 1970-1978, exhibition catalogs, a copy of the gallery policies, and a newspaper article about the business. Exhibition catalogs include shows for J. M. Sorg, Hib Sabin, Peter Paone, Sherry Sullivan, Lee Waisler, and more.
The records of the Howard Wise Gallery in New York, and its predecessor the Howard Wise Gallery of Present Day Painting and Sculpture in Cleveland, Ohio, measure 11.4 linear feet and date from 1943-1989. Records consist of correspondence, artist files, exhibition files, business records, writings, and video recordings that document the activities of Wise's gallery in Cleveland from 1957-1961 and, to a lesser extent, his gallery in New York City from 1960-1970. Wise's activities following the closing of the Howard Wise Gallery are also found among the correspondence, artist files, business records, writings, and video recordings.
The papers of artist Isabella Howland measure 1.2 linear feet and date from 1899-1979. The collection documents her career through biographical material, correspondence, personal business records, writings, printed material, artwork, and photographs.
The Irving Blum Gallery and Ferus Gallery announcements consist of 32 announcements for exhibitions at the Los Angeles Ferus Gallery (1957-1966) and its successor the Irving Blum Gallery (1966-circa 1972). Exhibition announcements are for many exhibitions of southern California contemporary and pop artists, as well as New York artists. Artists represented by announcements include John Altoon, Don Bachardy, Larry Bell, Billy Al Bengston, Robert Irwin, Jasper Johns, Donald Judd, Craig Kauffman, Roy Lichtenstein, Edward Moses, Kenneth Noland, Ad Reinhardt, Ed Ruscha, Frank Stella, and Andy Warhol, among others.
The papers, 1878-1964 (20.5 linear feet) of museum curator, director, and art scholar William Mills Ivins (1881-1961) consist of correspondence, writings, notes, photographs, and Ivins family papers. Ivins was Curator of Prints, 1916-1946, Assistant Director, 1933-1938, and Acting Director, 1938-1940 at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. The collection contains professional and personal correspondence with art historians, art dealers, museum curators, print and book collectors, and artists concerning the history of print making, book design and illustration, print collectors and collecting, exhibitions, and museum administration. Also found are Ivins' published and unpublished writings and lectures, and notes. The collection contains some Ivins' family papers including family correspondence, genealogies, and photographs.
The papers of Katherine Gauss Jackson measure 0.6 linear feet and date from 1919 to 1974. The bulk of the collection consists of letters from Alfred H. Barr, Jr. to Katherine Gauss Jackson during the 1920s while they were studying at Princeton University and Smith College, respectively. Also found is scattered material relating to Barr including an outline on Russian music, a photograph, notes on modern art, and printed material concerning Barr's 70th birthday celebration.
The Jack Rasmussen Gallery records measure 8.3 linear feet and date from 1936 to 1984, with the bulk of the records dating from 1978 to 1982. The records shed light on the Washington, DC gallery's operations through administrative records, financial and legal records, artist files, and printed material.
The records of Jacques Seligmann & Co. measure approximately 203.1 linear feet and date from 1904 to 1978, with bulk dates from 1913 to 1974. The collection includes extensive correspondence files, reference material on American and European collectors and their collections, inventory and stock records, financial records, exhibition files, auction files, and the records of subsidiary companies. The collection is an invaluable resource in tracing the provenance of particular works of art and provides a comprehensive view of the activities of collectors and art dealers in the years leading up to and following World War II.
The records of California gallery James Vigeveno Galleries measure 2.9 linear feet and date from 1940 to 1975. The collection comprises sales records consisting of photograph albums, negatives, and card files; printed materials containing exhibition announcements and catalogs, and scrapbooks documenting exhibitions held at the gallery; and two photographic portraits of Vigeveno.
The Jamison Thomas Gallery records measure 27.2 linear feet and 0.001 Gb and date from 1940-2000, with the bulk of the records dating from 1980-1995, reflecting the years the Gallery operated in Portland Oregon. About 1/2 of the records consist of artists' files of artists represented by the gallery and artists of interest. Also found are administrative records, client and collector files, financial and legal records, exhibition files, and publicity files.
The papers of abstract expressionist painter and playwright Paul Jenkins measure 11.1 linear feet and date from circa 1915 to 2010. Jenkins's career in New York and Paris is documented through biographical material, family papers, correspondence, writings, personal business records, printed material, photographs of Jenkins in his studio and at various events, and original artwork by Jenkins and others.
The papers of arts administrator Dorothy Hay Jensen measure 0.2 linear feet and date from circa 1933 to 1991. Relating to Jensen's work as supervisor of the WPA art projects in Maine and her work on the Index of American Design is a sketch, correspondence, a notebook and notes, photographs, and printed material.
The papers of photographer and puppeteer Ida Jervis measure 2.6 linear feet and date from 1951 to 1996. Found are files concerning Washington D.C. area artists, collectors, exhibitions, festivals, institutions and museums.
The papers of Robert P. Johnston measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1947 to 1971. The papers consist of material compiled by Johnston relating to ceramicist and sculptor William Ellisworth Artis and painter Hale Woodruff. Also included is one letter to Johnston from painter Karl Knaths.
The scattered papers of jeweler and educator Ruth Barker Johnston measure 0.2 linear feet, date from 1940 to 1948, and relate to Johnston's work teaching metal work courses to wounded United States soldiers during and after World War II. Found are letters, an article written by Johnston, printed material, and project files for the American Red Cross Training Corps and the Forest Glen Convalescent Section at Walter Reed General Hospital.
The papers of African American painter William H. Johnson date from 1922 to 1971, with the bulk of the material dating from 1926 to 1956, and measure 1.5 linear feet. The collection documents Johnson's career as an artist in New York and in Europe and his marriage to textile artist Holcha Krake through scattered biographical material, including eight letters regarding the sale and exhibition of his work - one from Langston Hughes and two are from Alonzo Aden of the Barnett Aden Gallery. Also found are exhibition catalogs, news clippings, other printed material, and photographs of Johnson, Krake, and their artwork. One scrapbook contains news clippings, letters, and additional photographs. Another scrapbook contains travel postcards. Also found are a few scattered records and research notes compiled by the Harmon Foundation regarding William H. Johnson.
The papers of painter Howard Kanovitz measure 8.0 linear feet and 1 GB and date from 1953-2017. The collection documents Kanovitz's work as a professional artist through biographical material; personal and professional correspondence; writings; interviews; personal business records; gallery, exhibition and project files; photographic and printed material; sound and video recordings; and preliminary drawings and studies for artworks.
The scattered printed materials of sculptor Lila Katzen measure 0.2 linear feet, date from 1969-1980, and include a resume, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and press booklets.
The papers of New York City sculptor Charles Keck (1875-1951) measure 8.6 linear feet and date from circa 1905-circa 1954. The papers provide scattered documentation of Keck's life through thirteen letters, two speeches, lists of artwork with price and sales information, printed material, and photographic material, including photos of Keck and his studio, and a collection of 1003 glass plate negatives, primarily of Keck's artwork, which document the wide range of work he produced throughout his prolific career.
The Nancy Kelker research material regarding Mel Casas measures 1.3 linear feet and 0.001 GB dates from 1890 to circa 2011 with the bulk of the collection dating from 1968 to 2005. The material includes sound and video recordings of interviews with Casas by Kelker and Vincent Valdez, and a talk by Casas at Georgia Southwestern University; research files that include Casas' business and legal records, correspondence, exhibition records, photographs, and student papers about Casas; and printed materials consisting of clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, journals, newsletters, and posters relating to Casas' activities during his career. One interview transcript is in digital format. The material was compiled by Kelker for the book Mel Casas: Artist as Cultural Adjuster.
The papers of Margueritte Kimball, financial secretary of the Cranbrook Academy of Art, measure 2.0 linear feet and date from 1929 to 1996. The collection documents the school's history through organization files collected by Kimball in her capacity as secretary, and printed material recording events at the academy.
The papers of painter and printmaker Robert Kipniss measure 3.2 linear feet and date from circa 1932-2023. They illustrate his career through biographical material, correspondence, writings, and printed and photographic material.
The papers of arts administrator Aline Kistler measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1930 to 1936. The papers relate to Kistler's career as an editor of Prints journal and education director at the California Palace of the Legion of Honor, and include correspondence, interviews, lecture and research notes on art, printed material, and writings.
The papers of California and New Mexico painter and etcher, Gene Kloss, provide scattered documentation of Kloss's career through 35 items dating from 1932-1956. Records include letters to Kloss, primarily about exhibitions and purchases of her work; press clippings documenting exhibitions and other activities including lectures delivered by Kloss; a photograph of Kloss and three photographs of her artwork; and ten etchings. The etchings represent a complete set of the artist's prints of the Southwest executed for the Public Works of Art Project from 1933-1934.
The papers of architect and designer Florence Knoll Bassett, measure approximately 2 linear feet dating from 1932 to 2000. Through correspondence, sketches, drawings, designs, subject files, photographs, and printed material, the collection selectively documents Knoll Bassett's education, her work with Knoll Associates from the 1940s until her resignation in 1965, and projects undertaken since her retirement. It is an important source of information on the development of interior architecture and design from the 1940s to the 1970s.
The papers of Belle Krasne Ribicoff measure 1.6 linear feet and date from 1942-circa 2010, with the bulk of the collection dating from 1945-2004. Papers include biographical materials; correspondence with artists, art historians, writers, museum directors, and others; individual files relating to Belle and Irving Ribicoff's art collection and the Friends of Abe Ribicoff's campaign for the United States Senate; artwork; printed material, e.g., clippings, announcements, exhibition catalogues, brochures; and photographs. The collection documents Ribicoff's career as an arts editor, critic, and her involvement in civic and arts organizations for the State of Connecticut.
The scattered papers of sculptor Louise Kruger measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1949 to 1973. Found is a resume, a chronology of Kruger's sculpture with photographs, and printed material.
The papers of sculptor Anna Coleman Ladd measure 4.26 linear feet, date from 1881-1950, and document the career of sculptor Anna Coleman Ladd. Found within the papers are biographical material, letters, diaries, financial material, notes and writings, art work, a file concerning the American Red Cross Studio for Portrait-Masks, scrapbooks, printed material, and photographs.
The scattered papers of sculptor Frances Kent Lamont measure 0.7 linear feet and date from 1909 to 1970. Papers include letters, a school notebook, printed material, two scrapbooks, sketches, and photographs including family snapshots, portraits, and photos of works of art.
The Jack Lenor Larsen papers measure 3.7 linear feet and date from 1941-2003. Larsen was a renowned weaver and designer, entrepreneur, and a scholar who wrote and lectured on modernist design. His career in the New York design world is documented by biographical materials, correspondence, writings by and about him, various printed materials and photographs.
The papers of Sidney Laufman measure 1.0 linear feet and date from 1916 to 1983. The papers document Laufman's career as a landscape painter through awards, biographical outlines, and interviews; correspondence with family, friends, and art organizations; notebooks, notes, and other writings; receipts, sales records, and other personal business records; clippings, exhibition announcements, exhibition catalogs, and other printed material; and photographs of Laufman and his family and photographs of artwork.
The papers of painter, illustrator, and educator Percy Leason measure 1.3 linear feet and 0.402 GB and date from circa 1929 to 2011. The collection documents his career through biographical material, correspondence, diaries, writings and notes, printed and digital material, photographic material, and a scrapbook.
The papers of architect Harold E. Leeds measure 0.8 linear feet and date from 1940s-circa 2002. The letters found here are primarily from painter Loren MacIver writing from France, during which time Leeds looked after the home belonging to MacIver and her husband, poet Lloyd Frankenberg. While mainly logistical in nature, MacIver does describe aspects of her daily life in France, and her and Frankenberg's friendships with prominent figures including Margaret Barr, Elizabeth Bishop, Pierre Matisse, and James Johnson Sweeney. The photographs in the collection document Leeds' life with partner and documentary filmmaker Wheaton Galentine, and Leeds' work as an architect and interior design professor at Pratt Institute.
The collection measures 17.6 linear feet and dates from 1903 to 1999 (bulk 1924-1992) and documents the career of advertising designer and executive Douglas Leigh. Found are 83 volumes of publicity scrapbooks that contain mostly photographs, clippings, printed materials, and scattered letters, drawings, and blueprints. Also included are professional correspondence; photographs of project installations, aerial advertising, and entertainers; plaques and awards received by Leigh; and printed material, which includes clippings, press kits, advertising materials, designs and original sketches for projects by Leigh. The material reflects Leigh's continuously imaginative use of a wide range of media in promoting his clients' products. Among the projects/campaigns represented are 7up, Airships (Tydol, Flying Red Horse, MGM, Wonder Bread and others), Allied Chemical Tower, Amoco, BlueCross-Blue Shield, Camel cigarettes, Coca-Cola, EPOK, Eveready, Flamingo Frozen Foods, Four Roses Whiskey, Fram Oil Filters, Helmsley Building, Old Gold Cigarettes, Pan Am Building, Pepsi-Cola, R. J. Reynolds, Schaefer Beer, Spectaculars, Stag Beer, Times Tower Building, and Wilson Whiskey.
The Ira Licht papers measure 0.8 linear feet and date from 1963-1991. The papers document Licht's career as an art historian and museum professional. Included is professional and personal correspondence with artists during his career as curator at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago, coordinator of Art in Public Places, National Endowment for the Arts, and tenure as director of the University of Miami's Lowe Art Museum. The letters are from many notable artists at early stages in their careers, which provides insight into how they built success from an early point. There are also artist and exhibition files which document working relationships with and about artists and exhibitions Licht curated, as well as printed materials such as exhibition invitations and posters.
The records of Seattle's avant-garde Linda Farris Gallery measure 13.4 linear feet and date from 1969-1995. The bulk of the records consist of artists' and exhibition files. Also found are gallery business correspondence, administrative files, event files, reference files, records of sales, scattered legal files, the personal papers of gallery owner Linda Farris, and printed materials.
The Jacques Lipchitz papers and Bruce Bassett papers concerning Jacques Lipchitz measure 52.8 linear feet and are dated circa 1910-2001, with the bulk of the material from the period 1941-2001. Papers are comprised of sculptor Jacques Lipchitz's personal papers and filmmaker Bruce Bassett's papers relating to Jacques Lipchitz. Lipchitz's personal papers contain personal and professional correspondence, comprising nearly half of the series, and biographical material, writings by and about Lipchitz, printed material, and photographs documenting Lipchitz's commissions, exhibitions, friendships, and interests. Also found are records relating to the compilation and production of The Sculpture of Jacques Lipchitz: A Catalogue Raisonné by Alan G. Wilkinson. The Bruce Bassett papers relating to Jacques Lipchitz consist mainly of Bassett's extensive audiovisual documentation of Lipchitz's life and art. Also found are paper records related to the audiovisual projects, including letters, business records, printed materials, and production records. A small quantity of material unrelated to Lipchitz is also found among the Bassett material, including video and sound recordings related to Sidney Lifchez, IBM, Isamu Noguchi, the Storm King Sculpture Center, and Auguste Rodin.
The Joe Lopez papers and Gallista Gallery records measure 1.7 linear feet and 32.93 GB and date from 1966 to 2016. The collection is comprised of biographical records that include interviews with Lopez, autobiographical writings by Lopez and writings by others, printed and digital materials, artwork, and photographic and moving image materials. Records for the Gallista Gallery include trademark files and legal records pertaining to the lawsuit against Lopez by E and J Gallo Winery over the use of the word "gallo."
The papers of American portrait painter William Cushing Loring (1897-1959) measure 0.7 linear feet and date from 1899-1961. The majority of the collection consists of correspondence, including letters which document Loring's artistic education in Paris and London 1900-1904. Also found within the collection are letters from other Loring family members, printed materials which document Loring's artistic career, and photographs of the artist and his work.
The scattered papers of art historian and painter Janice Lovoos measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1966 to 1990. Found are biographical materials on Lovoos and her son Edmund Penney, copies of vintage family photographs, printed material, and writings by Lovoos relating to her work on California art and artists.
The papers of ceramicist Glen Lukens measure 1.6 linear feet and date from 1920 to 1983. The bulk of the papers consist of letters from Lukens to family members, and other correspondence with family, friends, and colleagues. Notably, letters describe Lukens' time working in Haiti to establish a ceramic industry, his views on United States involvement in World War II, and the Watts Riots in Los Angeles in 1965. Also found are biographical materials, scattered writings and notes on ceramics and other subjects, printed materials, and photographs.
The papers of Southern California painter Stanton Macdonald-Wright measure 17.2 linear feet and date from 1890 to 2008. The collection contains biographical material including address books and interview transcripts; correspondence with family, friends, and artists, including Morgan Russell, and his wife Suzanne Binon, Michel and Suzanne Seuphor, Ann and John Summerfield, and Bethany Wilson; contracts, correspondence, and other material related to exhibitions Macdonald-Wright participated in or that featured his works in the decades following his death; notes, drafts and manuscripts for books, and other writings; diaries and travel journals; invoices, inventories, legal and estate documents, and other personal business records; scrapbooks consisting of clippings and exhibition materials; clippings, exhibition announcements, exhibition catalogs, and other printed materials; sketches and other artwork; photographs, slides and transparencies of Macdonald-Wright, family portraits, travels, and artwork.
The papers of woodworker and furniture maker Sam Maloof measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1954 to 2003. The collection consists of clippings and miscellaneous printed materials related to Maloof and woodworking, as well as photocopies of correspondence between Maloof and Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter.
The records of the Marian Locks Gallery measure 0.6 linear feet and date from 1932 and 1968 to 1991. The records document the history of the Philadelphia gallery through exhibition schedules; price lists for one person and group shows; artists' files on Ronald Bateman, Salvatore Pinto, and Gerald Pogach; press releases; and printed material, including 3 issues of ML Newsletter, 1984, exhibition announcements, exhibition catalogs, and newspaper clippings of reviews of shows at the gallery. Among the artists represented are Edna Andrade, Tom Chimes, Ray Metzker, Elizabeth Osborne, and Warren Rohrer.
The papers of sculptor Phyllis Mark measure 1.0 linear feet and date from circa 1939 to 1978. Found are artworks, biographical materials, correspondence including with Fritz Glarner, notes, personal business records, and photographs of Mark and others and of works of art.
The papers of artist and educator John Marshall measure 2.1 linear feet and date from the 1960s to early 2000s. The collection sheds light on Marshall's career through professional files, photographs, and artwork. Professional files include resumes, awards and certificates, professional correspondence, some project files, printed material, two scrapbooks, and a film reel. Photographs consist of slides of Marshall's work and his artwork series, some of which depict Marshall working in his studio. Also found are transparencies of his work and exhibition displays; scant candid and portrait snapshots of the artist; and mounted photographs of his work. Artwork found in the collection is mostly design sketches of metalwork projects for jewelry, pots, cups, and silverware done in charcoal and pencil; and two paintings.
The papers of sculptor and painter Ezio Martinelli measure 2.4 linear feet and date from circa 1944-1973. They illustrate his career through biographical material, correspondence, personal business records, and printed and photographic material.
The papers of Giovanni Martino and Martino family measure 2.5 linear feet and date from 1913 to 2022. Giovanni Martino's career as a painter, and to a lesser extent, his work with his brothers at Martino Studios, is documented though biographical material, correspondence, printed material, photographs, artwork, and one scrapbook. Also found are papers documenting the painting careers of his wife, Eva, and daughters, Nina and Babette.
The records of New York City's Maynard Walker Gallery measure 6.3 linear feet and date from 1923 to 1975. The collection comprises personal and professional correspondence; artist's files for Thomas Hart Benton, John Chumley, John Steuart Curry, Lily Cushing, Madeline Hewes, Walt Kuhn, Wayne Williams, Grant Wood, and others; exhibition and gallery files consisting of printed materials, exhibition scrapbooks, a file on Spanish painting, and files for the exhibition Other Worlds (1945); financial and sales records containing files for artist accounts, non-artist accounts, bills of sale, and inventory; and photographic materials for exhibitions, works of art, and the writer Henry James.
The collection of artists' letters compiled by Mary and John McGuigan Jr. measure 0.6 linear feet and date from 1794-1938. The collection is comprised of a group of letters, writings, and signed documents to and from a variety of artists, art administrators, art critics, historians, and art-related organizations assembled from multiple sources. It also includes associated printed material with some documents and a few photographs, including carte de visites and cabinet cards.
The papers of New York based photographer Duane Michals date from circa 1940-2019 and measure 7.5 linear feet. This small collection includes Michals' correspondence from the 1970s, printed material, photographs of Michals, as well as photographic prints he has taken for commercial and artistic projects. There is a 6.3 linear foot unprocessed addition to this collection donated 2019 and 2020 that includes primarily photographs taken by Michals of actors, writers, friends, family and classmates; photo books, postcards, assemblages, photo-sequences by Michals; an Yves St. Laurent portfolio; and photographs of Michals. Additional material includes biographical information, correspondence, printed material and a catalog on CD.
The scattered papers of painter Vera Michels date from circa 1920 to 1976 and measure 0.2 linear feet. Found are sketches and a drawing by Michels, three notebooks kept by Michels during George Otis's landscape painting class, and photographs of works of art by Michels.
This small collection of Robert Mills family letters date from 1813 to 1847 and measure 0.2 linear feet. Found here are 38 letters between architect Robert Mills and his wife Eliza, two letters to Mills from other family, and nine letters to Mills from business acquaintances, including architect John Skirving and engineer Louis Wernwag. Also found are six letters to Mills' daughter Anna from various family members.
The records of the Millicent Roger Museum measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1983 to 1984. The records consist of two letters, one to and one from Arthur H. Wolf, the museum director, regarding the Hispanic Artists Registry; the registry of Hispanic artists and craftsmen in New Mexico, consisting of questionnaires completed by each artist; magazine and newspaper articles about the registry and about Millicent Rogers.
The papers of Fred Mitchell, 1938-2007, measure 14.3 linear feet. Correspondence, writings, 29 diaries, and subject files, document his personal life and career as a painter and educator in New York City. The papers also include biographical materials, artwork, sketchbooks, printed material, and photographs.
The papers of African American artist, curator, and arts administrator Evangeline "EJ" Montgomery measure 26.1 linear feet and date from 1929-2019. The papers relate to Montgomery's career and involvement in the African American art scene in California and Washington, D.C. The collection includes biographical materials consisting of calendars and appointment books, certificates and awards, records regarding Montgomery's personal art collection, resumes and biographies, and other personal records; correspondence with colleagues and friends such as Benny Andrews, Willis Bing Davis, Edmund Barry Gaither, Eugene Grigsby, Dele Jegede, Samella Lewis, Nzegwu Nkiru, and A.M. Weaver; professional activity files documenting Montgomery's career as a consultant, curator, member, and volunteer for a myriad of organizations including the American Association for State and Local History, National Conference of Artists, and the Oakland Museum; and research files and notes on African and African American arts and history, Black media, Black photographers, the museum profession, and the artists Betye Saar, Lois Mailou Jones, Nike Davies-Okundaye, Romare Bearden, Ruth Waddy, Sam Gilliam, and Sargent Johnson. Also included are files regarding Montgomery's career as an artist containing material on the Brandywine Workshop, interviews with Floyd Coleman and for The Historymakers, sales and consignment records, and other material; printed and documentary material consisting of art reproductions, clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and posters regarding Montgomery and other African American artists; artwork by Montgomery, including student sketchbooks, and others; photographic material of Montgomery, friends and colleagues, events, personal snapshots, and works of art; and unidentified audiovisual material.
The scattered papers of painter and muralist Tracy Montminy measure 1.2 linear feet and date from 1936 to 1989. Found are biographical materials, photocopies of letters received, photographs of murals, and printed material. Also found are four study drawings for a mural in City Hall, Medford, Massachusetts.
The papers of painter and inventor Samuel F. B. Morse date from 1826-2009 (bulk 1826-1871), and measure 0.4 linear feet. This small collection documents Morse's role in the early years of the National Academy of Design through his correspondence as the academy's first president, and also includes scattered biographical material, Morse's writings and notes on art from that period, printed material including clippings about Morse and an exhibition catalog, eight photographs, including one of Morse, and a microfilm reel of one of Morse's sketchbooks.
The photographs of David Smith measure 0.3 linear feet and date from circa 1945 to 1995. The collection consists of fifteen black and white photographs of David Smith and his works of art taken by Ugo Mulas between circa 1945-1980. Also included are exhibition announcements and catalogs for Smith exhibitions and "Ironclad Images by An American Vulcan" magazine article featuring some of the photographs taken by Mulas.
The papers of muralist Buell Mullen measure 0.4 linear feet and date from 1942 to 1982. Found are scattered biographical material, professional correspondence, information on mixing epoxy resins, printed material, and photographs.
The James Mullen Christmas card collection measures 0.4 linear feet and dates from 1955 to 2021. The collection includes 80 original Christmas cards and accompanying prints created by artists, consisting of etchings, drawings, silkscreen images, watercolors and collages. Nineteen of the cards were created by Mullen and sent to his colleagues. Also included are studies by Mullen and original accompanying zinc plate and linoleum blocks used to make his cards. Artists represented include Tamara Kernozek Blank, Marilyn Brownell, Alyce Burmeister, Nancy Callahan, Andrew Case, John DePol, Janice Dowine, Elaine Downing, Frank Gilroy, Ray Gloeckler, Yvonne Goodhill, James Hathaway, Jane Higgins, Jacques Hnizdovsky, David Holmes, William Hubschmidt, Roxanne Johnson, Glen Kaufman, Alan Larsen, Gerson Leiber, An-Khang-vu-Cong, Ernest Mahlke, Jeanne Marchese Minnie S. Martin, John Mazarak, Bill Mitchell, James Mullen, Megan Mullen, Bruce North, George O'Connell, Jean Paris, Robert Pum, Clare Romano Ross, John Ross, Thomas Seawell, Jill Sheedy, Timothy Sheesley, Bruce Shobaken, Alice Siegfried, Arnold Singer, Scott Sorrentino, Clair van Vliet, H. Donald White, Ron Wilcox, Hale Woodruff, George Zimmerman, Edwin Zoller and George Zoretich.
The scattered papers of painter Daphne Mumford measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1969 to 1980. Included are biographical materials on Mumford's parents, photographs of an exhibition and slides of works of art, poetry by Mumford, and printed material.
The papers of photographer Nickolas Muray measure 1.5 linear feet and date from 1910 to 1978. Found within the papers are biographical materials; business and personal correspondence, including a handful of letters from Frida Kahlo; writings; teaching files, primarily of photography courses taught at New York University; printed material; artwork; and photographic materials of Muray, his family and friends, and his work.
There is a 0.6 linear feet Unprocessed Addition which includes biographical material, correspondence, photographs, research notes and a diary about Africa, and a subject file on the book The Revealing Eye, Personalities of the 1920s, written by Paul Gallico with photographs taken by Muray, 1967.
The scattered papers of painter, etcher, and illustrator Nelly Littlehale Murphy, measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1846 to 1945. Biographical materials, printed materials, and photographs document Murphy's work as a painter and illustrator in the Massachusetts area.
The Museum of Craft and Folk Art records measure 28.9 linear feet and 12.48 GB and date from 1970 to 2012. The museum was established in 1982 in San Francisco, California and exhibited local and national craft and folk art collections until it closed in 2012. The collection includes administration records, extensive exhibition files, artists' files, museum publications, printed material, video recordings, born digital items, and photographic material.
The papers of architect, craftsman, woodworker, and furniture designer George Nakashima measure 1.0 linear foot and date from 1950 to 1991. The collection is comprised of biographical material, correspondence, writings, subject files, and printed material that mostly relate to Nakashima's work in furniture design.
The Andy Nasisse files relating to self-taught artists measure 0.8 linear feet and date from 1979 to 1986, with additional undated materials. Included are artist files on twenty-five self-taught artists. Files consist primarily of black and white photographs of artists, their artworks, and photographs of unidentified artworks. Also included is a letter discussing artist Howard Finster's first dealer, Jeffrey Camp, and in which Nasisse offers his advice to Finster to limit production of his work. An audio recording of an interview with Miles Carpenter conducted by Nasisse, and a documentary about J. B. Murray, A Video Documentary of an Artist and His Work, are also present in these files. The documentary features many of Murray's paintings and drawings, as well as his comments on his art and visions.
The artists included in the files are Eldren M. (E. M.) Bailey, Miles Carpenter, Tessie Carroll, Emanuel "Litto" Damonte, Samuel Perry (S.P.) Dinsmoor, Sam Doyle, John Ehn, Howard Finster, Laura Pope Forrester, Dilmus Hall, Irene Hall, Bessie Harvey, St. EOM (Eddie Owens Martin), Jeff McKissack, John Milkovitch, J. B. Murray, Grandma Tressa Prisbrey, Dow Pugh, W.T. Ratcliffe (or Ratliff), William Carlton Rice (Mr. Rice), Royal Robertson, James "Son Ford" Thomas, Mose Tolliver, Frank van Zant (Chief Rolling Mountain Thunder), and Brother Joseph Zoetl.
The records of the National Arts Club measure 32.1 linear feet and date from 1898 to 1960. The collection documents the founding of the club, and its governance, administration, exhibitions, and social activities
The records of the National Society of Mural Painters measure 13.1 linear feet and date from 1895 to circa 2007. The activities of the society are documented through administrative files, membership files, correspondence, committee files, exhibition and competition files, artist files, financial and legal records, printed material, a scrapbook, and photographic materials.
The papers of New York painter Alice Neel measure 1.0 linear foot and date from 1933 to 1983. The bulk of the collection documents the last fifteen years of Neel's career as an artist. Found within the papers are letters from galleries, museums, and art organizations; writings and notes by Neel; exhibition catalogs, clippings, and other printed material; and photographs depicting Neel, exhibitions, and her artwork.
The papers of LeRoy Neiman measure approximately 70.5 linear feet and date from 1938-2005. The collection includes biographical materials, correspondence, project files, printed material and artifacts documenting the career of the American painter LeRoy Neiman.
The papers of illustrator, xerography artist, filmmaker, and educator Esta Nesbitt measure 10.05 linear feet and date from circa 1942-1981. Found within the papers are biographical material, correspondence, writings, xerography research files, project and exhibition files, and printed material. Much of the collection relates to Nesbitt's xerography art work. Additionally, the collection includes motion picture film and sound recordings related to her film and performance work.
The papers of Louise Nevelson measure 30.5 linear feet and 40.5 MB and date from circa 1903 to 2019. The collection documents aspects of the life and work of the sculptor, focusing especially on her later career. Papers include correspondence, personal business records, writings, scrapbooks, early art work, photographs, interviews, awards and honorary degrees, books, and an extensive amount of printed material.
The collection of photographs of artists by Arnold Newman measures 0.6 linear feet and dates from 1940 to 1961. The collection consists of photographs of various artists taken by Newman. Some of the represented artists include: Gertrude Abercrombie, Julius Bloch, Willem De Kooning, David Hare, Joseph Kaplan, Ibram Lassaw, and Joseph Stella. Folders consist of a large version photograph and both a duplicate small version and transparency of the photograph.
The records of the Niveau Gallery measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1943 to 1947. The records document the history of the gallery through a scrapbook of photographs of artwork displayed at the gallery and a scrapbook of clipping and some exhibtiion announcements.
The papers of feminist art historian and educator Linda Nochlin measure 31.2 linear feet and 3.62 gigabytes and date from circa 1876, 1937 to 2017. The collection is comprised of biographical materials; date books and notebooks; correspondence; writing project files that include material on Gustave Courbet and realism, bathers and the body, essays and lectures on 19th century art among other topics, artists, and smaller writing projects; professional files containing material on conferences and fellowships; teaching files detailing courses taught by Nochlin at New York University Institute of Fine Arts and other institutions; printed materials; artwork; and photographic materials that document Nochlin and her relationships with family, colleagues and friends, and artists.
The sixty-nine glass plate negatives of marine painter William Edward Norton (1843-1916) measure 0.42 linear feet and date from circa 1880 and include one image of Norton, and images of unidentified women and children, presumably members of Norton's family. Other negatives are of boats and sailing ships or show buildings and river and street scenes; two images are of paintings of ships. Also found is a folder of contact sheets, circa 1990, made from sixty-five of the negatives.
The papers of abstract painter David Novros are dated 1963 to 2008, and measure 1.0 linear foot. Correspondence, records relating to the Liaunig Boat House commission (Middleburgh, NY), interview transcripts, printed material, and photographs document the painter's professional career.
The Ruth O'Hara papers relating to her print collection measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1912 to 1952. The papers focus on the provenance, original purchase, and auction of prints and works acquired by Ruth O'Hara. Found are letters and financial records, a photograph of John Taylor Arms and others, and printed material.
The Ivan C. Karp papers and OK Harris Works of Art gallery records measure 80.3 linear feet and are dated 1960-2014. The collection documents the operation and activities of the contemporary art gallery founded by Ivan C. Karp in the SoHo area of Manhattan. Exhibition files, artist files, printed material and photographic materials reveal the wide range of artists represented by OK Harris and the gallery's role in introducing Photo-realism to the public. Aso included are administrative files, prints by OK Harris artists, business and personal correspondence, 39 journals by Karp spanning a period of 62 years, and other personal papers. Material pre-dating the 1969 establishment of OK Harris Works of Art consists of printed items and a few letters.
The Roy Leeper and Gaylord Hall collection of Miné Okubo papers measure 1.4 linear feet and date from circa 1940 to 2001. Roy Leeper and Gaylord Hall were long-time friends with and patrons of Okubo from the late 1950s until her death. The collection contains letters, writings, and sketches by Okubo. Among the printed materials is a copy of the 1944 special edition of Fortune magazine which was sympathetic to Japanese Americans interned during World War II and for which Okubo was hired to illustrate. Also found are scattered documents relating to Hall and Leeper.
The notes of painter and sculptor Jules Olitski to Joan Olitski measure 0.02 linear feet and date from 1981-2004. The collection comprises of ten humorous love notes, some illustrated, written by Jules Olitski to his wife, Joan. Olitski wrote the notes to his wife (also known as Kristina) in the morning when he left his studio after working through the night.
The papers of artist and educator Jules Olitski measure 3.2 linear feet and date from 1950-2012. The collection sheds light on Olitski's career through writing files that consist of drafts, edits, and some correspondence; printed material such as newspaper clippings and articles, exhibition material, and published writings; portrait photographs of the artist; and sound and video recordings from interviews and lectures.
This small collection of papers of Cuban born sculptor and painter Tomás Oliva measure 0.2 linear feet and date from circa 1969-1996. Found among the papers are a chronology; life documents; exhibition catalogs, including one from the 1993 exhibition of three of the original Los Once Cuban artist's group forty years after their first exhibition in Havana; one letter from Cyndee Levy-Angulo; notes and poetry; a photograph of Oliva with José Antonio Díaz Peláez; photographs of sculpture, two sketchbooks; and loose sketches and doodles.
The Organization of Independent Artists records measure 28.4 linear feet and date from circa 1970s to circa 2003. The records include administrative records, correspondence, exhibition and installation files, artists' files, financial and legal records, printed material, seven scrapbooks, and photographs.
The records of the Origin Gallery measure 1.5 linear feet and date from 1961 to 1982. The records primarily consist of sales records cards and either business cards or index cards for galleries and dealers, and for experts in specific subject matter such as woodworking, Egyptian jewelry, and Japanese masks. The sales records cards contain information including buyer contact information, invoice number, description of item purchased, price, and whether item was purchased in full or in installments.
The papers of painter and assemblage artist Alfonso Ossorio measure 0.7 linear feet and date from 1949 to 1985. The papers document Ossorio's career through correspondence, writings, printed material, and photographs.
The papers of New York artist, critic, historian, writer, art consultant and curator Walter Pach, measure 20.7 linear feet and date from 1857-1980. The collection documents Pach's promotion of modernism through his role in the landmark 1913 Armory Show, his relationships with artists and art-world figures and his extensive writings on art. Records include biographical material, correspondence with family, friends and colleagues including noted artists, handwritten and edited versions of manuscripts by Pach, diaries and journals, business records, printed material, scrapbooks, sketchbooks and artwork by Pach and others, and photographs of Pach and his family, friends, and colleagues. The collection also includes 12 linear feet of selections from Walter Pach's library.
The scattered papers of painter and collector Josephine Paddock measure 0.4 linear feet, date from circa 1890 to 1963, and include scattered correspondence, photographs, and printed materials. The bulk of the collection consists of two dismantled postcard albums.
The papers of Erwin Panofsky measure 19.8 linear feet and are dated 1904-1990 (bulk dates 1920-1968). They consist of correspondence, writings, biographical material, and printed material documenting Panofsky's career as an art historian, teacher, and writer. The Panofsky papers are comprised mainly of correspondence with colleagues, scholars, students, art dealers, galleries and museums, libraries, colleges and universities, organizations, and periodicals.
The papers of sculptor, author, and poet, William Ordway Partridge, who was active in New York City and Washington, D.C., measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1879-1920, and 1957. This small collection consists primarily of letters to Partridge from artists, political figures, art historians, and authors; drafts and typescripts of Partridge's poems; and two clippings about Partridge's sculpture.
The Robert Perine research material on the Chouinard Art Institute measures 1.8 linear feet and date from circa 1923 to circa 1985. Documents consist of research material used in Perine's book Chouinard: An Art Vision Betrayed (1985) including catalogs for the Chouinard Institute and California Institute of the Arts; notes and preliminary writings for the book, including an annotated table of contents and a bibliography; floor plans of the Institute; material concerning the lawsuit brought against the board of trustees in an attempt to prevent the closing of the school; 158 photographs of Nelbert Chouinard, classes, students and buildings; and 27 sound cassettes of interviews of 52 artists and staff, some with partial transcripts.
The papers of curator Isabel Peterson measure 0.7 linear feet and date from circa 1940 to 1980. The collection document's Peterson's work as United Seamen's Service, Inc., art exhibition director curating the annual Art Exhibition by Merchant Seamen of the United Nations. Found are biographical materials on Peterson, correspondence, interview transcripts, photographs, printed material, a mixed-media scrapbook, and writings.
The papers of New Hampshire landscape painter William Preston Phelps and his daughter, artist Ina Phelps Hayward, measure 1.1 linear feet and date from 1849-2001, with the bulk of the material dating from the 1890s to the 1920s. Papers include letters from Phelps, and correspondence regarding Ina Phelps Hayward's involvement in her father's 1917 estate sale; sales and legal records related to the Phelps estate; a scrapbook and printed material about William Preston Phelps; a sketchbook of sketches attributed to Phelps; sketches by Ina Phelps Hayward and her husband Roger Hayward; photographs of Phelps, his home and studio in Chesham, New Hampshire, and his artwork; and glass plate negatives, including two of Phelps and thirty-six of his artwork.
The records of the Phoenix Gallery measure 0.3 linear feet and date from 1958 to 1977. The records document the history of the gallery through exhibition announcements, exhibition posters, photographs of the gallery and its founding members, membership lists, and recollection from founding members on the history of the gallery.
The papers of quiltmaker and curator Sue Pierce relating to the exhibition Full Deck Art Quilts measure 1.4 linear feet, date from 1988 to 2002, and comprise material Pierce collected as curator of the exhibition.
The papers of art historian, critic, and curator Robert Pincus-Witten measure 12.4 linear feet and date from 1942-2017. The collection consists of biographical material; color and black and white photographs and negatives; writings by Pincus-Witten; teaching files and printed material; journals; sketches by Pincus-Witten; professional files related to curatorial work; correspondence; artist files maintained by Pincus-Witten; and audiovisual and born digital materials.
The collection measures 0.2 linear feet and consists of three notebooks, notebook fragments, and two letters written by African American primitive painter Horace Pippin. The three notebooks and notebook fragments contain Pippin's World War I memoirs written in the 1920s, one of which is illustrated by Pippin with six drawings of war scenes. Two letters are dated 1943 and circa 1943. One of the letters is written to "Dear Friends" and begins with "life story of art."; the other is written to dealer Robert Carlen about showing his painting Domino [Game] Players.
The papers of Boston-based portrait painter Elizabeth Piutti-Barth measure 0.2 linear feet and date from circa 1975 to 1953. Found is a lecture, printed material, and photographs of Piutti-Barth, her family, friends, subjects, homes and studios, and works of art.
The papers of New York art collector Silvia Pizitz (1905-1991) date from 1927 to 1989 and measure 1.0 linear feet. Found are artist files, biographical material, correspondence, photographs and slides, and printed material. Of note are records concerning the donation of Pizitz's art collection and material relating to Pizitz's family department store in Birmingham, Alabama.
The Stephen Poleskie papers and Chiron Press records measure 1.0 linear feet and date from circa 1961-2020, with the bulk from 1963-1968. Stephen (Steve) Poleskie was a painter and printmaker in New York. From 1963 to 1968 he operated Chiron Press, New York City's first fine art screen printing studio. A bulk of this collection includes business correspondence and financial documents as well as writings, printed materials, photographic materials, and digital video recordings that document Poleskie's own career as an artist as well as the activities of Poleskie's Chiron Press.
The papers of abstract expressionist painters Jackson Pollock and wife Lee Krasner measure 16.1 linear feet and date from circa 1914 to 1984, with the bulk of the material dating from 1942 to 1984. The collection documents their personal and professional lives, as well as the legacy of Jackson Pollock's work after his death. Found are biographical material, correspondence, writings by Krasner and others, research material, business and financial records, printed material, scrapbooks, artwork by others, photographs, interview transcripts, audio and video recordings, and motion picture film.
The papers of Henry Varnum Poor measure 12.9 linear feet and date from 1873-2001, with the bulk from the period 1904-1970. Correspondence, writings, artwork, printed material and photographs document Poor's work as a painter, muralist, ceramic artist and potter, architect, designer, writer, war artist, educator and a co-founder of the Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture. Also found is extensive information about the design and construction of Crow House, his home in New City, New York, commissions for other architectural projects, and his personal life.
The scattered papers of painter Edith M. Prellwitz measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1896 to 1938. Found are two letters, photographs, and printed materials concerning Prellwitz's career.
The Morris W. Primoff papers relating to Thomas Hart Benton measures 0.01 linear feet and date from 1950 to 1978. The papers primarily consist of correspondence between attorney Morris W. Primoff (1899-1986) and New York-based painter and muralist Thomas Hart Benton (1889-1975). Correspondence includes letters, 1950-1965, between Benton and Morris W. Primoff of Primoff & Primoff, Counselors at Law. Letters concern the "Lewis family" gift of Benton's painting "Island Farm" to Morris W. Primoff; a Benton exhibition at the Gerst Gallery in New York; tax laws concerning unsold works of art in artists' estates; a proposed book on Benton by Crown Publishers, Inc.; and Benton's expedition up the Missouri River following the trail of Lewis and Clark. Also included are a letter from Benton's wife Rita to Polly and Murray (Morris) Primoff thanking them for attending Benton's exhibition opening in New Britain, 1954; and a letter from Polly Burroughs concerning a book on Benton, 1978. Printed material includes the catalog "Thomas Hart Benton: A Giant in American Art"(1962) and newspaper clippings.
The Katherine Prince collection relating to James McNeill Whistler, dates from circa 1834-circa 1892, and 1980, and measures 0.2 linear feet. This small collection of letters, two diaries, mementos, and family history notes, provides scattered documentation of the long friendship between Katherine Prince, her sister Leslie, and Katherine's daughter, Susie Livermore Sutton, with their Lowell, Massachusetts neighbor, James McNeill Whistler.
The Eve Propp papers regarding artist Joseph Cornell date from 1966-1994 and measure 1 linear foot. This small collection documents the relationship between Eve Propp, a gallerist, and Joseph Cornell. The two maintained a friendship through frequent letters and visits. The papers consist of approximately sixty letters from Cornell to Propp from 1968-1972, letters from others, notes on Propp's visits to Cornell, printed material, and photographic material.
The Pyramid Group scrapbook consists of one volume that dates from 1947 to 1954. The scrapbook contains brief biographical notes and photographs of works of art by Pyramid Group members, exhibition reviews, catalogs and announcements.
The papers of California pop artist and teacher Mel Ramos measure 0.6 linear feet and date from 1959 to 1984. The collection documents Ramos's career as an artist through correspondence with Lawrence Alloway, Dwan Gallery, Roy Lichtenstein, David Stuart, and Tom Wesselman, among others; a few inventories, invoices, and loan agreements; documentation of his work with the San Francisco Art Institute; and exhibition announcements and catalogs. Writings include two manuscripts on Ramos and the Pop Art movement, a one-page interview of Ramos, and poetry by Robin Skelton. Of interest in the collection, are files containing photographs, photo-collages, and clippings used for paintings such as "Elephant Seal," "Virnaburger," and "Manet's Olympia."
The papers of artist Charles Ramsburg (1942- ) measure 0.8 linear feet and 6.04 GB, and date from 1959-2020. The collection documents Ramsburg's career and art practice through biographical material, correspondence, exhibition files, printed material, and photographic material. Some email correspondence, three video recordings and the bulk of the photographs are in digital form.
The scattered papers of abstract artist, collector, and museum director Hilla Rebay measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1921 to 1963. Found are photographs, printed materials concerning Rebay and the Guggenheim Foundation Museum of Non-Objective Painting, and a transcript from a court case involving taxes.
The Paul Allen Reed papers measure 1.5 linear feet and 0.774 GB and date from 1936 to 2008. The papers document Reed's career as a painter through correspondence with friends and colleagues; writings by Reed including lecture notes and teaching plans; professional files including binders with curriculum vitae and cataloged artwork, and sound, video, and born-digital recordings including interviews; printed material such as clippings, exhibition announcements, and catalogs; studies for paintings; and photographs of Reed and his artwork.
The papers of New York painter Robert Reid measure 0.9 linear feet and date from circa 1880-circa 1930. The collection provides scattered documentation of Reid's career and family history through a certificate, letters, an essay of family recollections, scrapbooks containing letters, writings, printed material and family photographs, printed material about Reid, and photographs of Reid, his studio, travels, and works of art.
The papers of Ad Reinhardt measure 3.9 linear feet and date from circa 1927 to 1968. The collection documents Reinhardt's career as an abstract painter, cartoonist, and writer through biographical material, correspondence, writings, printed material, scrapbooks, and artwork.
The papers of San Francisco metal-worker, jeweler, and painter Merry Renk measure 0.9 linear feet and date from 1952 to 2000. The collection comprises business records that include sales invoices, inventories, exhibition price lists, correspondence, and other material related to Renk's business activities. Also found are printed materials, a few sketches of utensils, writings, and a video recording of the documentary "Merry Renk: Jeweler" by Alan Leveton.
The papers of painter Katharine Rhoades measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1940 to circa 1950. Found are thirty-three photographs of Rhoades's paintings and a letter from Lucy Madeira Wing.
The papers of art historian E. P. Richardson measure 28.7 linear feet and date from 1814-1996, with the bulk of the materials dating from 1921-1996. Within the papers are scattered biographical materials; acquisition files for Richardson's personal art collection; professional and personal correspondence with colleagues, art historians and critics, artists, museums, galleries, and dealers; numerous writings, including manuscripts and research files for his published books, articles, and lectures; general research notebooks and files compiled by Richardson on a wide variety of art-related topics and artists; professional and committee files; as well as a smaller amount of Constance C. Richardson's papers.
The records of Los Angeles art gallery Richard Kuhlenschmidt Gallery measure 7.6 linear feet and date from 1972 to 2018 with the bulk of the material dating from 1980 to 1992. The collection comprises administrative records, correspondence with colleagues, artists, galleries, and museums, artist files, exhibition files, and printed materials for the Kuhlenschmidt Gallery and other galleries.
The William Trost Richards papers measure 1.8 linear feet and date from 1848-1920. The collection documents Richards' personal life and his career as a landscape and seascape painter. The collection consists of correspondence, writings, business files, printed material, photographs, and other miscellaneous materials.
The scattered papers of painter Florence V. Reynolds and the Hapgood Family research material regarding Reynolds measure 0.2 linear feet and date from circa 1890 to 1990. Found are biographical materials on Reynolds and three photographs. Research materials includes correspondence between the Hapgood family and institutions and museums, lists of works of art, and exhibition material. A thesis by Janet Silverman is on Robinson.
The Rosamund Felsen Gallery records measure 28.9 linear feet and date from 1949 to 2014, with the bulk of the records dating from 1978 to 2014. The records shed light on the gallery's operations primarily through administrative records, artist files, exhibition and event files, financial records, born digital material, photographs, and slides.
The Rose Fried Gallery records measure 8.1 linear feet and date from 1936 to 1972 with the bulk of materials dating from 1945 to 1970. The majority of the collection consists of artists files documenting the gallery's relationship with abstract, modern, and Latin American artists; additional named subject files; and scattered administrative and financial files. Individual artists and subject files contain a wide variety of documentation, such as correspondence, photographs, financial records, and printed materials.
The papers of Dominican American installation artist Moses Ros measure 2.3 linear feet and date from 1978 to 2012. The collection is comprised of files for several New York City Housing Authority commissions, as well as architecture, sculpture, and mural projects; professional files for Dominican York Proyecto GRAFICA, MUD/BONE Print Studio, and a New York American Institute of Architects residency; printed materials; and artwork that includes doodles, sketches, mock ups, and a paper and feather mask.
The papers of painter, illustrator, and screenprinter Allen Saalburg, 1924-circa 2003, bulk 1940-1987, measure 0.8 linear feet. Included are professional correspondence, printed material, a scrapbook and photographs. Most photographs are of Saalburg and his artwork. Also found are biographical material and subject files.
The papers of Cambridge sculptor and illustrator, Lilian Swann Saarinen, measure nine linear feet and date from circa 1909 to 1977. The collection documents Saarinen's career through correspondence with artists, architects, publishers, and gallery owners; writings and notes, including manuscripts and illustrations for children's books and publications; project and teaching files; financial records; artwork, including numerous project sketches; and photos of Saarinen and her artwork. Saarinen's personal life is also documented through diaries and correspondence with friends and family members, including Eero Saarinen, to whom she was married from 1939-1953.
Donald Saff papers and Saff Tech Arts records measures 31.8 linear feet, and 9.82 Gigabytes, and dates from circa 1710, 1800-2013, bulk 1965-2010. Donald Saff's papers document his career as an artist, and contain professional records prior to the founding of Saff Tech Arts, including his tenure at University of South Florida and Graphicstudio. Also included are records and correspondence documenting consulting and other collaboration outside of Saff Tech Arts. The series includes biographical material, correspondence, professional records, writings, exhibition files, printed material, and artwork. Saff Tech Arts (later Saff & Co.) records includes correspondence, founding documents including funding, fabrication and supplies information, artist files documenting working relationships ranging from potential collaboration, to long-term fabrication and representation, regular business relationships such as Knoedler & Co., and legal and insurance information including leases and worksite assessments. The series includes correspondence, artist files, business records, and printed material including clippings and subject files. Some materials are in digital formats.
The memoir China Eggs by Surrealist painter Kay Sage measure 0.01 linear feet and dates from 1955. The memoir is a photocopy of a typescript draft and it covers the period of roughly 1910-1935. Sage writes of her family; childhood years in the United States and Europe; travels; her painting; living in Italy; her marriage to Prince Ranieri di San Faustino; and her friendship with Ezra Pound. The typescript draft is edited throughout, presumably by Sage.
The scattered papers of painter Judith-Ann Saks measure 0.2 linear feet, date from 1953 to 1977, and consist of printed materials and a scrapbook compiled by Saks which contains letters and printed materials.
The Molly Saltman "Art and Artists" interviews measure 2.4 linear feet and contain 62 sound recording interviews and lectures with art collectors, teachers, actors, and artists. The interviews were conducted by Molly Saltman from 1966-1967 as part of the "Art and Artists" radio series broadcast on the KPAL radio station in Palm Springs, California. Additional recordings of KPAL content and nonbroadcast content were discovered upon digitization, including a Los Angeles Art Association anniversary event and a Charles White slide lecture.
The collection measures 18.1 linear feet, dates from 1922 to 2012, and documents the career of Cuban born painter and printmaker, Emilio Sanchez. The collection includes letters to Sanchez, business records, photographs of the artist and sources for his artwork, many original sketches, printed material, and calendars.
The Sandra Berler Gallery records measure 5.5 linear feet and date from the 1970s to 2013. The collection sheds light on the gallery's operations through administrative records, artist files, exhibition files, and photographs.
The interviews and papers of art critic, art historian, and educator Irving Sandler measure 2.8 linear feet and 1.63 GB and date from 1944-2017. Included are interviews and recorded lectures, some in digital format; photographs of artwork and artists; membership files, meeting minutes, and ephemera from the Club organization; printed material from individual artist and group exhibits; and teaching files.
The papers of Julia Santos Solomon measure 2.0 linear feet and date from 1972 to 2014. The papers document Santos Solomon's career as an artist, educator, and fashion designer through a proposal for "Lola!" television show, proposals for a series of children's books, exhibition announcements and catalogs, photographs of artwork, and other professional activity files; writings consisting of notes, diary pages, and diaries; and sketches, sketchbooks, and other artwork.
The small selection of records of the Santa Monica Art Gallery measure 0.4 linear feet and date from 1953 to 1967. The records document the history of the gallery through artist statements, correspondence with Round the World Tours, and photographs.
The Raymond Saroff papers are dated 1953-2009 and comprise 1.2 linear feet. Letters, printed material and photographs compiled by Saroff document his interest in Claes Oldenburg and "Happenings." Also included are a videotape of Saroff's film Claes Oldenburg's "Ray Gun Theater – 1962" and receipts for artwork purchased for his modern art collection. The 2014 addition includes a catalog essay by curator and collector Howard Rose, Saroff's partner, for an exhibition of their folk art collection at Bard College (1991). Also found are financial records regarding his collections, related printed material, and photographs of artwork.
The Naomi Savage papers on Man Ray measure 1.6 linear feet and date from 1913-2005. The collection provides an overview of Man Ray's career as a photographer and painter through correspondence, exhibition files, writings, notes, artwork, printed material, and photographs.
The collection measures 13.3 linear feet, dates from the 1880s-1997 and documents the life and varied career of Rudolph Schaeffer, artist, designer, teacher, writer, collector of Asian art, and pioneer in the field of color study who founded the Rudolph Schaeffer School of Design in San Francisco in 1926. The papers include biographical information, correspondence, subject files, writings, diaries, journals, artwork, scrapbooks, sound recordings, and photographs.
The Terry Schoonhoven papers measure 0.4 linear feet and date from circa 1969 to 1980. The scattered papers document Schoonhoven's career in Los Angeles as a painter, printmaker, and muralist through writings, artwork and 10 sketchbooks, and photographs.
The scattered papers of New York painter and author Claudia Schwalb date from 1984-1996 and measure 0.2 linear feet. Papers include letters, artwork by Scwalb, a typescript of a writing including an interview with Alan Saret, photographs of individuals and works of art, negatives, and slides of artwork.
The Robert Scull papers measure 2.2 linear feet and date from 1950 to circa 1984, with the bulk of the material dating from 1965 to 1970. Throughout the 1960s, Robert Scull was a wealthy and prominent art collector of Abstract, Pop, and Minimalist art whose collection included works by Michael Heizer, Jasper Johns, Robert Rauschenberg, and Andy Warhol, among others. His papers include fourteen annotated appointment books, correspondence, financial and legal records, printed material, and photographs. There is a 0.2 linear foot unprocessed addition to this collection donated in 2020 that includes black and white photographs (and 1 color photograph), snapshots, negatives and negative strips of family, friends artwork and artists; correspondence; and loan forms for works of art.
The papers of Don Seiler measure 3.0 linear feet and date from circa 1930 to 2020. The papers document Seiler's career as an artist through correspondence with family and friends; diaries containing recollections of his early life and time serving during World War II, and some recollections of Seiler by family and friends in the years following his death; and artwork consisting of sketches and sketchbooks.
The Jason Seley papers measure 3.0 linear feet and date from 1928 to 2003. The collection documents Seley's career as a sculptor through correspondence with family, colleagues, and art institutions; autobiographical notes, speeches, and other writings; records of an art residency program in Berlin and other professional activity files including sound recordings and a transcript of an interview; personal business records such as ledger books and estate papers; clippings, exhibition catalogs and other printed material; sketches; and photographs and slides of Seley and his sculptures.
The records of the Sheldon Ross Gallery, Birmingham, Michigan, measure 2.2 linear feet and are dated 1970-2007, with the bulk of materials dating from 1976-1995. The majority of the collection consists of artists' files. About half of the materials relate to Romare Bearden's work and his relationship with Sheldon Ross, the gallery owner. Also included are artists' files regarding George Grosz and Michigan artists. The contents of artists' files vary but generally include biographical information, printed materials and photographic images. The collection also contains correspondence, exhibition files, and photographs documenting the gallery's activities.
The papers of sculptor Lily Shore measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1939 to 1976. Found is a resume and two portraits of Shore, photographs of works of art, and printed material. Of note is Shore's copy of a 1939 exhibition catalog of the United American Sculptors, signed by many artists.
The records of the Signa Gallery measure 1.4 linear feet and date from 1957 to 1963. The records document the history of the gallery through administrative files; correspondence; guestbooks, artist biographies, and photographs of Franz Kline paintings and exhibition opening; exhibition files for exhibits at the gallery; insurance documents, ledgers, invoices, and other financial records; clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and other printed material.
The papers of sculptor, video artist, printmaker, and educator Jacqueline Skiles measure 0.7 linear feet and date from 1963 to 1980. The papers comment on Skiles's feminist activism and career as an educator and exhibiting artist. Found are biographical materials, correspondence, two photographs, printed material, professional files, and writings.
The papers of art collector Mary-Leigh Smart measure 0.4 linear feet and date from 1963 to 1978. Found is correspondence with artists, friends, galleries, and institutions, and scattered printed material.
The James D. Smillie and Smillie family papers measure 5.6 linear feet and date from 1853 to 1957. The collection consists of the papers of four members of the Smillie family including James Smillie, his sons James David and George Henry Smillie, and George's wife, Helen 'Nellie' Jacobs Smillie. The majority of the papers are those of James D. Smillie, comprised of correspondence, forty-five daily diaries, a scrapbook, printed materials, and one etching. The papers of James Smillie consist of biographical materials and writings. The George Smillie papers include biographical materials, scattered correspondence, a scrapbook, printed materials, and photographs. The Helen Jacobs Smillie papers include correspondence and photographs. Also found are scattered materials relating to other family members, mostly the children of Helen Jacobs and George Smillie.
The scattered papers of painter and educator Emily Guthrie Smith measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1941 to 1979. Found are biographical materials, correspondence, photographs of Smith with her art, and printed material.
The papers of painter Houghton Cranford Smith measure 2.2 linear feet and date from 1890-1991. They consist of eight scrapbooks compiled by his widow containing correspondence with family and friends, biographical materials, sketches, school work, extensive clippings, exhibition catalogs, travel documents and numerous photographs of family and friends.
The papers of Boston and New Hampshire painter Joseph Lindon Smith date from 1647-1965, with the bulk of papers dating from 1873-1965, and measure 8.8 linear feet. Found within the papers are biographical materials; letters from family members, artists, museums, and art patrons; seven diaries by Smith and two by his wife Corinna, personal business records, notes and writings, files concerning charitable theatrical productions, one sketchbook and other art work, a scrapbook, printed material, photographs, and sound recordings of radio interviews and a radio program on Smith.
The papers of sculptor, painter, and author Robert Smithson and sculptor, filmmaker, and earthworks artist Nancy Holt measure 18.9 linear feet and date from 1905 to 1987, with the bulk of the material dating from 1952 to 1987. Also included is Smithson's personal library of books, vinyl records, and magazine, measuring 48.4 linear feet. The papers consist of Smithson's biographical material; business and personal correspondence, much of it with artists; interview transcripts; extensive writings and project files; financial records; printed material; a scrapbook of clippings; holiday cards with original prints and sketches; photographic material; and artifacts. Also found are project files related to Nancy Holt's motion picture film Pine Barrens and her seminal environmental work of art Sun Tunnels, including a video documentary about Sun Tunnels.
The papers of artist Kenneth Snelson measure 21.8 linear feet and date from 1947-2016. While primarily known for his sculptures incorporating the structural principle of tensegrity, Snelson was also a prolific photographer and forerunner of computer art. The collection document's the artist's life and work through chronological files, correspondence, project files, gallery and exhibition files, photographic material, and printed material. Chronological files detail seven decades of personal and professional activities, beginning with Snelson's summers at Black Mountain College where he studied with Buckminster Fuller. Project files comprise nearly half of the collection and extensively document his sculptures, towers, atom model, computer art, patents, and cataloging and publishing projects.
The papers of African American abstract painter Sylvia Snowden measure 1.7 linear feet and date from 1962 to 2017. The collection contains biographical material, including recorded interviews with Snowden; correspondence; material related to professional activities, including exhibitions and symposia; printed material; and photographic material, as well as one sketch.
The papers of realist painter Raphael Soyer date from 1933 to 1989 and measure 3.9 linear feet. They document Soyer's career as a painter, printmaker, and writer. Found within the papers are scattered biographical materials, including several transcripts of interviews with Soyer; extensive personal and professional correspondence; writings and notes by Soyer and others; scattered legal and financial records; exhibition materials, clippings and other printed material; and photographs of Soyer in his studio, with artists and friends, and at art events. Also found are one sketch and a facsimile of Soyer's 1968 sketchbook produced by Forum Gallery.
The papers of artist, editor, and musician Diane Spodarek measure 3.6 linear feet and date from 1971 to 1990. The papers primarily document Spodarek's involvement with the publication Detroit Artists Monthly through administrative files, financial records, artist files, sound recordings and transcripts of interviews, sound recordings of performances, printed material, and photographic material.
The Clay Spohn papers measure 20.4 linear feet and date from circa 1862 to 1985 with the bulk of the material dating from 1890 to 1985. The collection consists of biographical material, correspondence, business records, notes and writings, art work, printed material, and photographs which reflect the life and career of painter and educator Clay Spohn.
The papers of San Francisco art patron and philanthropist Alma de Bretteville Spreckels measure 0.6 linear feet and date from 1920 to 1978. The collection focuses on Spreckels's founding of and service to the California Palace of the Legion of Honor and the Maryhill Museum of Fine Arts through correspondence, financial and legal records, meeting minutes, photographs, printed material, and registrarial records. Of note are Queen Marie of Romania's handwritten descriptions describing the provenance of her mementos and artifacts donated to the Maryhill Museum of Fine Arts.
The papers of Theodoros Stamos measure 3.1 linear feet and date from circa 1922-2008. Stamos was a painter primarily associated with the first generation of Abstract Expressionists. Biographical materials, correspondence, writings, business and legal records, printed materials, and photographs document Stamos' career as a painter. Also included are materials relating to the Rothko estate controversy compiled by Stamos' sister, Georgianna Savas, as well as her papers concerning arrangements for Stamos' funeral and posthumous exhibition plans.
The Julian Stanczak papers measure 0.4 linear feet and date from 1938 to 2002. The collection documents Stanczak's life through a series of microfilmed scrapbooks containing printed materials, letters, photographs, and writings. Also included are professional material made up of video recordings documenting Stanczak's career and transcripts for a series of interviews conducted by Neil K. Rector with Stanczak.
The records of the Los Angeles Stendahl Art Galleries measure 7.5 linear feet and date from 1907 to 1971. The collection is comprised of administrative and financial files, correspondence, exhibition files, and subject files on numerous artists, organizations, and other art-related topics. There is one scrapbook of clippings on the artist Edgar Payne.
The papers of Marie Sterner and the Marie Sterner Gallery measure 0.5 linear feet and date from circa 1910 to 1951. The collection contains exhibition catalogs and announcements, and two scrapbooks of clippings relating to Sterner's activities and work at her art gallery.
The Jack Stewart papers are dated 1926-2010 and measure 9.9 linear feet and 7.31 GB. A significant portion of the collection concerns Stewart's dissertation, "Subway Graffiti: An Aesthetic Study of Graffiti on the Subway" (New York University, 1989), related research, writings, and exhibitions on the subject. Biographical materials, correspondence, writings, printed and digital material, artwork, sketchbooks, and photographic materials document his career as a painter, muralist, designer, educator and administrator.
The papers of Ary Stillman measure 0.4 linear feet and date from 1924 to 1983. The papers document his career as a painter through reminiscences, a diary, and other writings on art; a video recorded conversation with Frances Stillman on her husband Ary, a documentary on Stillman's art career, correspondence, a file of photographs of artwork, list of artwork, and other professional activity; clippings, exhibition catalogs, and other printed material.
The scattered papers of sculptor and designer Marguerite Stix measure 0.4 linear feet and date from 1971 to 1974. Found are a list of works held in museums and institutions and five notebooks including scattered diary entries, designs for jewelry, and notes.
The papers of conservator and museum director George Leslie Stout measure 6.4 linear feet and date from 1855, 1897-1978. Stout was head of the conservation department at Harvard University's Fogg Art Museum, director of the Worcester Art Museum and Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Massachusetts, and a member of the Monuments, Fine Art and Archives (MFAA) Section of the U.S. Army during World War II. The bulk of the collection consists of correspondence with family, friends, colleagues and professional associations. There are letters from fellow Monuments Men who served in the MFAA section such as Thomas Carr Howe, Ardelia Hall, Lamont Moore, Theodore Sizer, Langdon Warner and several other prominent arts administrators. The papers also contain biographical materials, writings, sketches and one sketchbook, military records, printed materials, and photographs.
There is a 0.2 linear foot addition to this collection acquired in 2020 that includes four diaries, 1944-1946, kept by George Stout as a member of the Monuments, Fine Arts and Archives Section (MFAA) of the U.S. Army (known as the Monuments Men). The diaries describe Stout's experiences surveying war-caused damages in France, Germany, and Japan, and the recovery of Nazi impounded art works. Also included is a hand-made booklet that includes a "Glossary of Cha-no-yu Terms," which consists of quotes about Japanese art and tea drinking.
The scattered papers of illustrator and painter Susanne Suba measure 0.3 linear feet and date from 1934 to circa 2000. Found is a list of books illustrated by Suba, letters from contributors to The New Yorker and others, photographs, and printed material.
The papers of Thom Sudato measure 0.2 linear feet, date from 1972-1976, and provide scattered documentation of Sudato's career through correspondence, poems, photographs of Sudato, his wife Gina Sudato, and his artwork, and documentation of paintings he gave to Gina Sudato.
The Susan Cummins Gallery records measure 6.4 linear feet and date from 1984 to 2002, with the bulk of the records dating from 1990 to 2001. The collection sheds light on the California gallery's artists and operations through administrative records, artists' files, printed materials, photographic materials, audiovisual recordings, correspondence, and more. Also included are two files relating to art panels and lectures given by Susan Cummins.
The papers of painter, poet, and sculptor Trudy Sween measure 0.5 linear feet and date from 1966 to 1982. Found are biographical materials, correspondence, designs for logos and medals, and printed material.
The papers of Chilean born painter Jorge Tacla measure 5.05 linear feet and date from 1966-2019. Included are biographical material; letters from friends and other artists; project and exhibition files; photographs consisting of snapshots of Tacla, friends, and paintings; eleven illustrated journals; and printed material. The papers document Tacla's creative process and his relationships with other artists.
The papers of the expatriate African American painter Henry Ossawa Tanner measure 2.3 linear feet and date from the 1860s to 1978, with the bulk of the material dating from 1890 to 1937. Found in the papers are scattered biographical, family, and legal materials; twenty-seven folders of correspondence with family, friends, patrons, and galleries; writings and notes by Tanner and others; a small amount of printed material; numerous photographs of Tanner, his studio in Paris and home in Trepied, Normandy, his family, friends, fellow artists, and his artwork. Additional photographs include a circa 1890 shot of Tanner with fellow students at the Académie Julian and another depicting Tanner with members of the American Art Club in Paris, circa 1900. Also found are a few sketches and drawings.
The papers of New York historian Virginia Teague measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1913-1962, with the bulk of materials from 1913-1917. The papers consist of scattered records and papers compiled by Virginia Teague for the intended purpose of writing a history of the 1913 Armory Show, also known as the International Exhibition of Modern Art, organized by the Association of American Painters and Sculptors (AAPS). Documents include correspondence, business records, and printed material mostly in connection with the Copley Society and AAPS.
The papers of painter and sculptor Sabina Teichman measure 0.5 linear feet and date from 1947 to 1981. The collection includes biographical materials and sketches, printed material, and one photo of a work of art. Also found is correspondence which is primarily professional but also includes personal letters from Chaim and Renée Gross.
The papers of painter and naturalist, Abbott Handerson Thayer, and the Thayer family date from 1851 to 1999, with the bulk of the material dating from 1881 to 1950, and measure 5.12 linear feet. Thayer's painting career, interest in concealing coloration (camouflage) in nature, and relationships with artists, patrons, family, and friends are documented through correspondence, writings, scattered legal and financial records, printed materials, and a scrapbook. Photographs are of Thayer, his family, studio, and friends, including artists. The collection also contains family papers created by his second wife, Emma Beach Thayer, his son Gerald, his daughters Mary and Gladys, and Gladys' husband David Reasoner, who managed Thayer's estate after his death.
The papers of art conservator and historian, engineer, and professor Daniel Varney Thompson (1902-1980) are dated 1848-1979, with the bulk of the material dated 1923-1979. The collection measures 10.1 linear feet and consists of biographical material, correspondence, subject files, writings, artwork, printed material, and photographs.
The scattered papers of arts editor Domenica Thompson measure 0.6 linear feet and date from 1965 to 1973. Found are records relating to Thompson's time as editor of Chicago Midwest Art and Midwestern Art Reviews and Chicago Gallery Guide. Also found are letters and publicity material for the Chicago New Art Association and scattered photos of artists.
The records of the New York Tibor de Nagy Gallery measure 43.9 linear feet and date from 1941-2016. The records document the activities of the gallery through business records and correspondence, exhibition files, artist files, financial and legal records, inventory records, and a small amount of records of the Houston Branch.
The Abraham Joel Tobias papers date from 1913 to 2000 and measure 2.8 linear feet. Through project and exhibition files, printed material, correspondence, and photographs, the collection provides an overview of Tobias's career as a painter and muralist in New York City.
The papers of painter George Tooker measure 5.1 linear feet and date from circa 1851 to 2010. The papers document Tooker's personal and professional life through biographical material, correspondence, project files, gallery files, exhibition files, printed material, artwork and one sketchbook, and numerous photographs, including some taken by noted photographer George Platt Lynes.
Painter, draftsman, and etcher (Santa Fe, N.M.); studied at the Royal Acadamy in Amsterdam.
Diógenes Ballester (1956- ) is an artist based in New York City, with deep roots in Puerto Rico, where he is also regularly present. His studio in El Barrio has operated since 1987 and he is a prominent artist, teacher, and writer particularly in Puerto Rican and Nuyorican artistic communities.
Ballester works in different artistic media including painting, printmaking, drawing, new media, and installation art and is recognized as a master of encaustic painting and printmaking. He has received numerous honors for his artistic work and has exhibited widely in the United States, Europe, Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean.
Ballin was a lawyer and art collector from New York, N.Y.; George Luks, a painter. They were friends, and Luks painted Ballin's portrait.
Lee Balter was the CEO for Tallix, Inc. (1970-2006), an art foundry in Beacon, New York specializing in casting and fabricating sculpture.
Sculptor; Belmont, Mass. Died 1992.
Sculptor; New York City and Jerusalem, Israel.
Xavier J. Barile (1891-1981) was a painter, printmaker, and instructor in New York, N.Y.
Painter, illustrator, writer, and teacher. Born in Wisconsin; studied at the Art Institute of Chicago.
Virginia Barnett was a friend of Mark Tobey's. Her husband, Arthur, was Tobey's attorney and it is through this contact that the trio developed a friendship.
Herman Baron was the founder of the ACA Galleries (also known as American Contemporary Art and A.C.A. Gallery) in 1932 and served as its director until his death in 1961.
Sculptor, illustrator, and teacher; New York, N.Y. and Colchester, England. Born Oliver O'Connor Barrett in London, England, Barrett studied at Fircroft College, Birmingham, England, and is a self-taught sculptor. In 1940, he arrived in the United States, becoming a sculpture and drawing instructor at the Putney School in Vermont (1941-1942), Tulane University (1942), and Cooper Union Art School (1945).
Barrett produced illustrations for TOWN AND COUNTRY and other magazines, and has published poems and short stories. He later returned to England. He often shortened his name to Connor Barrett.
John Russell Bartlett (1805-1886) was a historian, linguist, and bibliographer in Providence, Rhode Island. From 1850 to 1853 Bartlett was the United States Boundary Commissioner responsible for surveying the US-Mexico border. During this time he traveled with Henry Cheever Pratt, and used the sketches from his travels to illustrate his Personal Narrative of Explorations and Incidents in Texas, New Mexico, California, Sonora and Chihuahua. Bartlett later worked for the John Carter Brown Library.
Fiber artist and educator James Bassler (1933- ) is Professor Emeritus at UCLA. His weavings draw inspiration from Pre-Columbian, Andean, and Mexican textile traditions.
James Bassler was born to Margaret and Johnny Bassler, a major league baseball player who hooked rugs during the off-season. Bassler studied at University of California, Los Angeles where he would later teach from 1975 to 2000. Along with his wife Veralee, Bassler opened a crafts school in Oaxaca, Mexico in the early 1970s. Additionally, he established the fiber art program at the Appalachian Center for Crafts in Smithville, Tennessee (1980-1982) and was a summer faculty member at the Penland School of Crafts in Penland, North Carolina and the Arrowmount School for the Arts and Crafts in Gatlinburg, Tennessee.
Bassler and his wife Veralee live in Palm Springs, California.
Sculptor; San Francisco, California.
Harold Baumbach (1903-2002) was a painter and printmaker from New York, New York.
Born in New York City in 1903, Baumbach was a self-taught painter who began exhibiting his work in the 1930s. Baumbach started with landscape painting, but gradually moved to a more abstract style. From 1946 to 1966 he taught painting techniques at Brooklyn College and was one of the founders of the journal Art Front.
Baumbach died in 2002.
B. C. Holland Gallery (1957-1994) was founded by Bud C. Holland and Noah Goldowsky, and was initially known as the Holland-Goldowsky Gallery. It held exhibitions and sold artwork for Chicago artists and many artists of the New York School. Holland bought out his partner and renamed the gallery the B. C. Holland Gallery in August 1961. The gallery closed upon Holland's death in 1994.
Bud C. Holland entered the jewelry business, after serving in WWII as a bomber pilot, where he began collecting artwork. He opened his first art gallery in 1957. During the 1960s pop trend, Holland was drawn towards abstract expressionism and other art forms, which he focused on in his gallery. He began selling his collection when he was diagnosed with cancer, and died at 72 in Chicago, Illinois, 29 December 1994.
Illustrator, painter, caricaturist, teacher; New York, N.Y. Beard was a founder of the American Boy Scouts, and was an author of several books on nature subjects. He also illustrated for several national magazines.
William H. Bender, Jr. was an insurance businessman and American art collector; New York, N.Y. Among his early interests were "The Eight" group of painters: Robert Henri, George Luks, Everett Shinn, Arthur B. Davies, Ernest Lawson, John Sloan, William Glackens, and Maurice Prendergast. He later became an avid collector of Lillian Genth, and was designated her executor.
Rosalind Bengelsdorf Browne (1916-1979) was an abstract painter, critic, educator, and writer active in New York City, New York.
Born in New York City in 1916, Rosalind Bengelsdorf studied at the Art Students' League as a teenager. She continued her study of art under her mentor Hans Hofmann, developing her artistic beliefs and style of abstract painting. In 1936, she became a founding member of the American Abstract Artists of New York City. That same year, she joined the Works Progress Administration (WPA) Federal Arts Project and completed murals at the Central Nurses Home on Welfare Island under Burgoyne Diller.
In 1940, Bengelsdorf married fellow artist Byron Browne, and the couple decided that she would end her art career to focus on teaching and writing. Browne subsequently worked as an art critic for Pictures on Exhibit, The New York Star, and Woman's Day and taught at the New School for Social Research until the late-1970s. After her husband's death in 1961, she returned to painting.
Rosalind Bengelsdorf Browne died in Manhattan in 1979.
Art historian; New York, N.Y. Benisovich came to the U.S. from Russia and studied at N.Y.U. A member of the College Art Association, he wrote N.A. TAUNAY, 1753-1830, UNDERCURRENTS IN FRENCH PAINTING.
New York painter Ben Benn was born in Russia in 1884 as Benjamin Rosenberg and died in 1983. Benn studied drawing and painting at the National Academy of Design from 1904-1908 and had his first exhibition, "Oils by Eight American Artists," at the Artists' Gallery in 1907. In 1916, Benn participated in the "Forum Exhibition of Modern American Painters" at the Anderson Galleries, along with artists Thomas Hart Benton, Oscar Bluemner, Arthur Dove, Marsden Hartley, John Marin, Man Ray, Abraham Walkowitz, and others. The exhibition was important in advancing the cause of modern art in American, particularly the American avant-garde and was recreated by the Whitney in 1983.
Best known as a modern painter who assimilated in his early style the influences of Matisse, Picasso, and Kandinsky, Benn's first one-man show was held at the J. B. Neumann Gallery in 1925. Portraits, still-lifes, and landscapes formed the core of Benn's subject themes and he often shifted between abstract and figurative images. He is known for his strong joyful colors, thick brush strokes and energetic paintings.
Benn was featured in over twenty one-man exhibitions and countless group shows. Major exhibitions included Abstract Painting in America (Whitney Museum, 1935), American Painting Today (Metropolitan Museum of Art, 1950), and Ben Benn, Painter (The Jewish Museum, 1965). The Smithsonian's Hirshhorn Museum in Washington, D.C. honored Benn with a one-man show on his ninetieth birthday (1974). His work is in permanent museum collections in both the U.S. and abroad including the Albany Institute of Art, the Smithsonian Institution's Hirshhorn Museum, the Knoxville Art Center, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Newark Museum, Whitney Museum of American Art, as well as the Museum of Arts, Ein-Harod in Israel and the Kröller-Müller Museum in Holland.
Ben Benn was a recipient of several awards for his achievement in painting. The Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts honored Benn with the Henry Schiedt award (1952) and the Carol Beck Gold Medal (1965); Benn was also the recipient of the Knoxville Art Center Purchase Prize in 1961. In 1970 Benn was a beneficiary of the Childe Hassam Fund awarded through the American Academy of Arts and Letters.
Benn's work is in permanent museum collections in both the U.S. and abroad including the Albany Institute of Art, the Smithsonian Institution's Hirshhorn Museum, the Knoxville Art Center, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Newark Museum, Whitney Museum of American Art, as well as the Museum of Arts, Ein-Harod in Israel and the Kröller-Müller Museum in Holland.
Garry Knox Bennett (1934-2022) was a woodworker, sculptor, and furniture designer in Oakland, California.
Bennett was born in Alameda, California to Katherine von Tagen and Robert Bennett, but was raised by his grandparents. He attended the California College of the Arts, then the California College of Arts and Crafts, where he studied painting and began experimenting with metals. During this time he married his wife Sylvia.
He opened a studio in the late 1960s where he produced his famous roach clips, then later opened a larger studio named Squirkenworks in Oakland. In the 1970s, he began working with wood and on 1980 fabricated his infamous Nail Cabinet, a wood cabinet with a single nail driven through the face of the door, which garnered attention not only for Bennett's expert craftsmanship but also for what some saw as disrespect for the craft. Regardless of any controversy Bennett's work created, he became highly respected as a craftsman. In step with his unconventional nature, Bennett exhibited and sold his paintings and jewelry using the pseudonyms Ambrose Pillphister and Gerraldo Bennucci.
Bennett received the Award of Distinction from the Furniture Society and the Master of the Medium Award from the James Renwick Alliance, and was a Fellow of the American Craft Council. A major retrospective, Made in Oakland: The Furniture of Garry Knox Bennett, took place in 2001 at the American Craft Museum in New York and the Oakland Museum in California.
Bennett died unexpectedly in 2022 in Oakland, California.
Mirella Bentivoglio (b. 1922) is an Italian sculptor, book artist, and performance artist.
Thomas Hart Benton (1889-1975) was an American Regionalist painter in Kansas City, Mo.
Art collector, politician; Chicago, Ill. Publisher of ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA, Vice-President of the University of Chicago, Congressman from Connecticut, and an avid collector of American art. Benton and Reginald Marsh were classmates and collaborated respectively as editor and illustrator for the Yale newspaper. During the Depression, Benton provided Marsh with a monthly stipend for which he received a monthly painting. When he became chairman of the board of ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA, Benton collected contemporary American painting to Americanize BRITANNICA's British image.
Ben-Zion (1897-1987) was a painter and sculptor in New York, N.Y.
Jason Berger (1924-2010) and Marilyn Powers (1925-1976) were painters in Boston, Mass. Berger and Powers were married until her death in 1976. They helped to form, along with their son, Adam, and other artists, a group called The Direct Vision. Their son is a poet and painter in Brookline, Mass.
Collector and patron of painter John Wilde.
Siri Berg (1921-2020) was a collagist, abstract painter, and educator active in New York City, who was known for making collages of geometric shapes on paper she printed herself.
Berg was born in Stockholm, Sweden, and studied art in Brussels, Belgium, before immigrating to the United States in 1940. Berg began her career working in window design for the New York City fashion industry. Later, in the 1970s, Berg began to focus on commissioned work and moved to a studio in SoHo. She exhibited her works throughout New York City and Philadelphia and was an active member of the American Abstract Artists group. Berg was also an educator who taught color theory at Parsons School of Design for over 25 years.
Berg died in New York City in 2020.
Berkson is an art historian, curator; San Francisco, Calif. Bladen, a painter and sculptor, worked in San Francisco in the mid-1950s, and later moved to New York. Levine, a conceptual and video artist, and a curator, works in New York.
Writer (New York, N.Y.)
Painter; New York, N.Y. Full name was Leonid Berman. Dropped his surname to avoid confusion with his brother, Eugene Berman, who was also a painter.
Museum curator.
Wallace Berman was born in 1926 in Staten Island, New York. In the 1930s, his family moved to the Jewish district in Los Angeles. After being expelled from high school for gambling in the early 1940s, Berman immersed himself in the growing West Coast jazz scene. During this period, he briefly attended the Jepson Art School and Chouinard Art School, but departed when he found the training too academic for his needs.
In 1949, while working in a factory finishing antique furniture, he began to make sculptures from unused scraps and reject materials. By the early 1950s, Berman had become a full-time artist and an active figure in the beat community in Los Angeles and San Francisco. Many art historians consider him to be the "father" of the California assemblage movement. Moving between the two cities, Berman devoted himself to his mail art publication Semina, which contained a sampling of beat poetry and images selected by Berman.
In 1963, permanently settled in Topanga Canyon in the Los Angeles area, Berman began work on verifax collages (printed images, often from magazines and newspapers, mounted in collage fashion onto a flat surface, sometimes with solid bright areas of acrylic paint). He continued creating these works, as well as rock assemblages, until his death in 1976.
Painter, mural painter, ironworker; Chicago, Ill., New York, N.Y. and Va. Born in Oslo, Norway. Berntsen also was the model for the laborer who stands behind Lenin in the controversial Diego Rivera mural for Radio City Music Hall.
Painter; Santa Fe, New Mexico.
Harry Bertoia (1915-1978) was a sculptor, designer, and metalsmith from Michigan and California. Harry Bertoia was born in Italy. He attended Cranbrook Academy of Art and was a designer for Knoll Associates.
Painter.
Forrest Bess (1911-1977) was a painter and fisherman in Bay City, Texas, known for his generally small, abstract, biomorphic paintings, and his ideas on the merging of masculine and feminine energy.
Although Bess lived much of his life in relative isolation, he was represented by Betty Parsons in New York, and his work received renewed interest after a 1981 solo show at the Whitney Museum of American Art. Although most of his paintings are in private collections, his work can be found in museums including the Menil Collection, the Museum of Modern Art, the Whitney Museum, the San Francisco Museum of Art, and others.
Architect, collagist, and educator; Houston, Tx. and Toronto, Ontario.
Livingston L. Biddle, Jr. (1918-2002) was a federal government arts administrator and novelist active in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Washington, D.C.
Livingston L. Biddle was born in Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania in 1918 to a distinguished and wealthy family. He graduated from Princeton University in 1940. During World War II, Biddle volunteered as an ambulance driver in Africa for the American Field Services.
While working as a special assistant to Rhode Island Democratic Senator Claiborne Pell in the 1960s, Biddle drafted the legislation for the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities Act of 1965, which led to the creation of the National Endowment of the Arts (NEA) one year later. Biddle served as deputy chairman of the NEA from 1966 to 1967, as congressional liaison director in 1975, and as chairman from 1977 to 1981. In 1976, he served as director of the Congressional Subcommittee on Education, Arts, and Humanities.
Also a writer, Biddle wrote four novels, all set in Philadelphia, including Sam Bentley's Island published in 1961. From 1968 to 1970, he was a professor and chairman of Fordham University's arts division. Biddle also published a non-fiction book about his experiences establishing and working for the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) titled Our Government and the Arts: A Perspective from the Inside in 1988.
Biddle married artist Catharina Baart in 1973 after his first wife, Cordelia Frances Fenton, died in 1972. Biddle died in Washington, D.C. in 2002.
Color consultant; Stamford, Ct.
Ilse Martha Bischoff was born on November 21, 1901 in New York City, to Adele Maria Timme Bischoff and Ernst Bischoff, founder of the Ernst Bischoff (pharmaceuticals) Company of Ivoryton, Connecticut.
Bischoff began her education at the Horace Mann School, later studying costume design at the Parson's School of Design. At the Art Students League, she studied painting under Frank Du Mond and etching with Joseph Pennell. While at the Art Students League, Bischoff befriended painters Paul Cadmus and Jared French. She also studied art in Paris, France, and Munich, Germany.
From 1928 to 1946, Bischoff illustrated 12 books and wrote two novels about George Washington's Portraitist, Gilbert Stuart: Painter's Coach in 1943, and Proud Heritage in 1949. Her autobiography, Drive Slowly: Six Dogs, was published in 1953. She was also an avid collector of Meissen porcelain.
Bishoff's artwork is represented in the collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the New York Public Library, the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston and the Hood Museum at Dartmouth.
Ilse Martha Bischoff died December 5, 1990, in Hartland, Vermont.
Black Mountain College Founded in 1933; closed in 1956.
Nell Blaine (1922-1996) was a painter, printmaker, and illustrator active in New York City, New York.
Robert A. Wilson (1922-2016) was a bookseller and owner of Phoenix Book Shop in New York City, New York.
Bland Gallery was an art gallery in New York, New York, that specialized in the purchase and sale of miniatures.
Minnesota and New York etcher and painter Lucile Blanch (1895-1981) helped to establish the Woodstock Art Colony in Woodstock, New York.
Born Lucile Lundquist in rural northern Minnesota, she studied at the Minneapolis School of Art where she met her future husband, Arnold Blanch. They moved to New York City where Lucile studied at the Art Students League. Lundquist was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship in the mid-1930s and participated in the Works Progress Administration's Federal Art Project, creating several murals for public buildings, before teaching art classes.
Lucile Blanch died in Georgia in 1981 and is buried in Woodstock, New York.
Dorothy Block (1904-1984) was a painter active in New York City, New York. Block studied and later taught at the Art Students League and participated in the Federal Art Project.
Painter; Cambridge, Mass. Born near Riga, Latvia in April 1913. Immigrated to Boston in 1920 and began painting and drawing classes, taught by Harold Zimmerman at a settlement house. Worked for the WPA in the early 1930s.
Painter; Millbrook, New York. b. 1920, in Chicago, Ill. d. Feb. 3, 1999, in East Wallingford, Vt. Birthdate also listed as 1921.
Fiber artist.
Russian-born painter and sculptor Peter Blume (1906-1992) was active in New York and Connecticut. His style combined American and European traditions with folk art and surrealism.
Peter Blume was born Piotr Sorek-Sabel in 1906 in Smorgon, Russia. With his family, he emigrated to the United States in 1911 and settled in New York City. Blume studied at the Educational Alliance and the Art Students League in New York. Influenced by folk art, Precisionism, Cubism, and Surrealism, Blume combined European and American painting tradition to create his own style. He was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1932 and travelled to Italy.
In 1934, Blume's South of Scranton (1931) won the first prize at the Carnegie International Exhibition. Later, he exhibited The Eternal City (1937) at the Julian Levy Galleries in Manhattan. With the Section of Painting and Sculpture of the Treasury Department, Blume completed two post office murals in New York and Pennsylvania. Blume was a member of the National Academy of Design and was active with the American Academy in Rome.
Peter Blume married Grace "Ebie" Douglas Craton in 1931. The couple built their home in Sherman, Connecticut. The Blumes travelled the world and kept close relationships with family and friends, such as Ann and Heber Blankenhorn, Malcolm Cowley, and Ned and Nancy Holsten.
Peter Blume died in Connecticut in 1992.
Graham C. Boettcher is a collector and the R. Hugh Daniel Director, Birmingham Museum of Art, Birmingham, Alabama.
Aaron Bohrod (1907-1992) was a painter, ceramicist, and educator in Madison, Wisconsin. He is most known for trompe l'oeil paintings, social realism, and surrealist ceramics. In 1948, he began his career at the University of Wisconsin - Madison.
Chakaia Booker (1953- ) is an African American sculptor in New York, New York. In an artist's statement, Booker refers to herself as a "narrative environmental sculptor." She is known for large-scale sculptures incorporating recycled rubber tires and stainless steel. Booker's works are included in more than 40 public collections and have been exhibited across the United States and internationally. She has also served on the boards of International Sculpture Center and Socrates Sculpture Park.
Sculptor.
Sculptor; Texas and mid-west. Brother of Solon Borglum, also a sculptor. Gutzon is most famous for carving the portraits of Lincoln, Washington, Jefferson, and Theodore Roosevelt on Mt. Rushmore.
Solon Hannibal Borglum was born in Ogden, Utah in 1868. His father Jens (James) Borglum and wife Ida emigrated to America in 1864, as Mormon converts. James took a second wife Christina who was the mother of Solon and his older brother John Gutzon de la Mothe. Christina left the family after just a few years, when James left the Mormon Church. James and Ida raised the large family, which included Solon, Gutzon, Miller, Arnold, August, Anna, Harriet, Theodora and Frank. Solon spent most of his childhood in Fremont, Nebraska, and in 1893 he became a ranch hand in Southern California. At this time he also developed an interest in art which he shared with his brother Gutzon, who was studying painting in Los Angeles.
From 1885 to 1893 Solon ran a ranch on his father's land in central Nebraska, but also took painting lessons from artist J. Laurie Wallace. After spending a short time at his brother's studio in Sierra Madre, and living as an artist in Santa Ana, he studied at the Cincinnati Art Academy under Louis T. Rebisso from 1895 to 1897. Solon then went to Paris where he met sculptor Augustus Saint-Gaudens who persuaded him to study sculpture at the Academie Julian. He studied there under Denys Puech and won numerous awards for works exhibited both in France and the United States. In 1898 Solon married Emma Vignal in Paris. They spent four months at the Crow Creek Reservation in South Dakota, an experience that greatly influenced his work. In 1901 Solon was elected to the National Sculpture Society, later becoming its vice president, and set up a studio in New York. Despite his success, such as winning the gold medal at the Art Palace at the 1904 World's Fair, confusions began between him and his brother Gutzon who decided to also become a sculptor. In 1906 he moved with his wife and children, Paul and Monica, to a farm in Connecticut called "Rocky Ranch." Artist Paul Manship became his student helper and lived with the family. Solon received commissions to do many monuments and memorials, but also continued to exhibit his work and participate in the local Silvermine Group of Artists.
From 1916 to 1917 Solon taught at the Beaux-Arts Institute of Design in New York and also developed ideas for an art textbook called Sound Construction, which he worked on with his student assistant Mildred Archer Nash. In 1918, he enlisted in the YMCA for overseas war work, attached to the Third and Fifth French Army. While there he was also the Director of Sculpture at the specially organized American Expeditionary Forces Art Training Center. When he returned home, he decided to establish the School of American Sculpture in New York City. He ran the school with great success, and gave many lectures on art and his experiences overseas until his sudden death after an appendectomy in January of 1922. His legacy was carried on by his wife Emma until her death in 1934, at which point his daughter Monica and her husband, A. Mervyn Davies, oversaw the exhibition of his artwork, and in 1974 published his biography Solon H. Borglum: "A Man Who Stands Alone".
Painter (Pennsylvania)
Born 1913. Art museum administrator; Detroit, Michigan. Bostick served as the Secretary of the Detroit Institute of Arts.
Henry Botkin (1896-1983) was a painter who worked primarily in New York. He was born in Boston, Massachusetts and trained at both the Massachusetts School of Art and the Art Students League before moving to New York City. While in New York, Botkin worked as an illustrator for Harper's, The Saturday Evening Post, and Century magazine. In the early 1920s he moved to Paris to begin exploring Impressionism as a painting style. Botkin is known for painting the theater, still lifes, and landscapes. He is also known for his paintings of Black people in the South Carolina low country which have faced criticism about their lack of social realism. Botkin returned to New York in 1930, married his wife Rhoda Lehman, and in 1934 became an art agent to his cousin art collector George Gershwin and others.
In the late 1930s, Botkin switched to the abstract painting style in oils, and took an active role in bringing the style to public attention. He became part of the Artist's Equity Association, The American Abstract Artists Group 256 in Provincetown, and the Federation of Modern Painters and Sculptors where he served as president from 1957-1961.
In 1955, Botkin put together the first exhibition of American abstract art at the Museum of Modern Art in Tokyo, Japan and organized the sale of five hundred and forty paintings at the Whitney Museum in New York in 1959. Botkin participated in various public events and programs and taught privately in New York, California, and Provincetown, Massachusetts. In the early 1950s Botkin began working with collages which became his main art form until his death. Botkin died in 1983 at the age of eighty-seven in New York City.
Louis Bouché (1896-1969) was a painter, muralist, and educator who lived and worked in New York City.
Bouché was born in New York City to Henri and Marie Bouché. His father was an interior designer who worked with Stanford White and for Tiffany, and his grandfather, Ernest Louis Bouché, was a Barbizon school painter. After his father's death in 1909, his mother moved the family to Paris where Bouché attended art school at La Grand Chaumère. When the family moved back to America in 1915, Bouché enrolled at the Art Students League where he met fellow student and lifelong friend Alexander Brook. In 1916, Bouché was invited to become a member of Walt Kuhn's Penguin Club, and in 1918, he joined the stable of Charlie Daniel's Daniel Gallery. At this time, Bouché began exhibiting in shows organized by Julianna Force for the Whitney Studio Club, which later evolved into the Whitney Museum. In 1920, he was introduced to the Woodstock artist community and was a frequent summer resident at the colony.
Bouché met Marian Wright while they were both members of the Penguin Club, and they were married in 1921. Upon returning from their honeymoon, Bouché accepted a position managing exhibitions for Wanamaker's Belmaison Galleries, the first modern art gallery in a department store in New York. Their daughter Jane would later marry William Pène du Bois, son of Guy Pène du Bois, whom the Bouchés had known from their days in the Penguin Club. In 1926, Bouché separated from Wanamaker's and began taking commissions for mural and design work, eventually completing murals for the U.S. Department of the Interior, Radio City Music Hall, and the Pennsylvania Railroad. In addition to murals, Bouché did illustrative advertising work for various publications, including Condé Nast and Town and Country.
In 1936, Bouché joined the stable at Kraushaar Gallery, where he eventually exhibited a series of ten one-man shows. Bouché also held solo exhibitons at the Valentine Gallery, Staten Island Institute, Century Association, and Albany Institute. Beginning in 1943, Bouché taught for many years at the Art Students League and began teaching at the National Academy of Design in 1951. He received a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1936 and was the American Academy in Rome's artist in residence in 1960.
Louis Bouché died in Pittsfield, Massachusetts, on August 7, 1969.
Painter and photographer; San Francisco, California. Studied with Hans Hofmann; founding member of the American Abstract Artists and was associated with the Artists' Gallery; photography influenced by Edward Weston.
Painter and educator; New York, N.Y. Born in Russia. Studied at Francisco Ferrer School, with Robert Henri, and with George Bellows. Came to United States in 1908. Taught at the Art Students League. Died 1980.
Illustrator and writer; South Pasedena, Calif. Born in Boston, Mass.; full name is William H. Bradley.
Wildlife illustrator, painter, and cartoonist Paul Bransom was born in 1885 in Washington, D.C., and grew up sketching animals in his yard and at the National Zoo. He began work as a draftsman for the U.S. Patent Office at age 13, and went on to produce technical drawings for the Southern Railroad Co. and General Electric. He moved to New York City in 1903 and worked for the New York Evening Journal from 1904 to 1907, where he produced the comic "News from Bugville" and other cartoons. During this time, he befriended several New York artists in the cartoon trade, including James Swinnerton, Charles Sarka, T.S. Sullivant, Walt Kuhn, Rudy Dirks, and Gus Mager. He was a member of the Kit Kat Club and joined in their sketch classes and annual skelters. He sketched frequently at the New York Zoological Park, and was eventually invited by the director to use a room in the lion house as his studio. He married Grace Bond, an actress, in 1906.
Bransom's break as an illustrator came from art editor George Horace Lorimer of the Saturday Evening Post, who bought several of his drawings for Post covers around 1907. Bransom began illustrating animal stories regularly in magazines such as Delineator, Country Gentleman, An American Boy, Good Housekeeping, and Ladies Home Journal. In 1912, he illustrated a special edition Jack London's Call of the Wild, and soon after that, the first illustrated edition of The Wind in the Willows by Kenneth Grahame. During his career, Bransom illustrated 45 books and was a regular contributor to 35 magazines, illustrating works by popular writers such as Albert Payson Terhune, J. Frank Dobie, and Emma-Lindsay Squier. He also created animal scenes for advertisements.
In 1917, Bransom built a studio on Canada Lake, NY, in the Adirondacks and he and his wife split their time between the Canada Lake home and a winter apartment on 67th Street in New York City. In 1949, he bought a second summer home near Jackson Hole, Wyoming, in what is now the Grand Teton National Forest. In Wyoming, Bransom hosted artist friends and taught outdoor classes for the Teton Artists Associated until 1962, when his health forced him from the high altitudes back to Canada Lake, NY.
Bransom held his first solo exhibition in 1925 at Arden Gallery in New York City, and had at least 18 solo exhibitions around the country throughout his life, including at the Warren E. Cox Gallery (1929), Charles Scribner's Gallery (1935), the New York Zoological Park (1942), the Society of Illustrators (1942), the Denver Museum (1950), and the Woodmere Gallery in Philadelphia (1963). He often exhibited in the annual group exhibition of the Society of Animal Artists, a group he co-founded in 1960 and served as its second president, from 1968 until his death. Bransom was also a member of the American Watercolor Society, the American Artists' Professional League, the Salmagundi Club, the Dutch Treat Club, and the Boone and Crockett Club. In 1974 Bransom was granted an honorary Doctor of Art degree from Weber State College in Ogden, Utah. In 1975 he won the Benjamin West Clinedinst Memorial Medal for Distinguished Achievement in Painting.
Paul Bransom died in 1979 at the age of 94.
Painter and printmaker; New York, N.Y. Born 1897, died 1982.
Craftsman and educator.
Michael Brenner (1885-1969) was a sculptor who emigrated from Lithuania to New York with his family in 1890. In 1900, Brenner moved to Paris, France, entering the Ecole des Beaux-Arts and the Academie Julian. He studied under his brother, Victor Brenner, and Augustus Saint-Gaudens. Brenner established a studio in Paris and was included in Gertrude Stein's circle of friends. He was associated with a small artist colony of Russian Jews which included Chaim Soutine, Michel Kikoine, Pinchus Kremegne, and Isaac Pailes. In 1914, with his American friend, Robert Coady, Brenner established the Washington Square Gallery in New York for which he acted as European agent.
Sculptor; New York, N.Y.
Brewer was a patron of graphic artist, painter and designer Eugene Berman.
Dorothy Bridaham (1923-1987) was an art critic and journalist active in Chicago, Illinois.
Dorothy Odenheimer Bridaham was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania in 1923. She studied art at the University of Pittsburgh and later at the University of Chicago. Settling in Chicago, Bridaham joined the staff at the Art Institute of Chicago and wrote a weekly column for the Chicago Sun in the 1940s. Later, she wrote for the Denver Post. She was married to the art historian Lester Burbank Bridaham.
Bridaham died in 1987 in Tacoma, Washington.
Fritzi Brod (1900-1952) was a painter, lithographer, author, and illustrator active in Chicago, Illinois.
Born in Prague, Czechoslovakia, Brod came to Chicago in 1924 after studying art in Prague and Vienna. Already an accomplished designer of textiles in the "modern manner," she continued her work with Raymond Katz at the Little Gallery. Brod's work was critically acclaimed at Chicago's first outdoor art fair in 1932. She was featured in C. J. Bulliet's column, "Artists of Chicago" in 1936.
Brod died in 1952.
James Brooks (1906-1992) and Charlotte Park (1919-2010) were Abstract Expressionist painters in East Hampton, N.Y. A native of St. Louis, Missouri, Brooks spent his childhood in Colorado, Oklahoma, Illinois, and Texas. He began drawing as a young boy, finding inspiration in magazine illustrations and comic strips. Before moving to New York City in 1926, he studied at Southern Methodist University (1923-1924) and at the Dallas Art Institute.
In New York, Brooks studied illustration at the Grand Central Art School. After exposure to museums led him to differentiate between illustration and fine art, Brooks enrolled at Art Students League. During this period he supported himself by doing lettering for magazine advertisements. From 1936-1942 he participated in the WPA Federal Art Project, executing murals at Woodside Library, Queens, New York (destroyed); the Post Office, Little Falls, New Jersey; and his famous Flight at LaGuardia Airport's Marine Air Terminal (painted over in the 1950s and restored in 1980).
During World War II Brooks served in the United States Army as an art correspondent in Cairo. When at the Office of Special Services, Washington, DC, he met Charlotte Park who worked there as a graphic artist and later became his wife. The couple moved to New York City in 1945 and married in 1947. Brooks resumed friendships with artists he knew from the WPA including Philip Guston, Bradley Walker Tomlin, and Jackson Pollock. Brooks and Park were especially close with Pollock and Lee Krasner; after they moved to Long Island, Brooks and Park, soon followed, first to Montauk and later to the Springs, East Hampton, New York.
By the late 1940s, Brooks had turned away from figural painting in the social realist style and moved toward abstraction. In the early 1950s, he was experimenting with enamel, gouache, and diluted oil paints, staining various grounds in ways that produced interesting shapes, adding spontaneous splashes of color over which he painted more deliberately. In the 1960s he switched to acrylics, leading to wider use of color and broader strokes.
Peridot Gallery presented Brooks' first solo exhibition in 1949. He helped organize and participated in the famous Ninth Street Show of 1951, earning critical acclaim. This assured him a place in two of the Museum of Modern Art's most important exhibitions of the period, Twelve Americans (1956) and New American Painting (1958). He showed at the Stable Gallery, Kootz Gallery, Martha Jackson Gallery and others. During his lifetime Brooks enjoyed five traveling retrospective exhibitions.
Prizes and awards included Carnegie Institute's Pittsburgh International Exhibition 5th prize for painting (1952), The Art Institute of Chicago's 62nd American Exhibition Logan Medal and Prize for Painting (1957) and 64th American Exhibition Harris Prize (1961), The National Arts Club Medal (1985), and a citation of appreciation for Flight from The North Beach Club Marine Air Terminal, LaGuardia Airport (1986).
Brooks taught for nearly three decades: drawing at Columbia University (1947-1948) and lettering at Pratt Institute (1948-1955); was a visiting critic, Yale University (1955-1960), University of Pennsylvania (1971-1972), and Cooper Union (1975); and served on the Queens College faculty (1966-1969). In addition, he was an artist-in-residence at The American Academy in Rome (1963), the recipient of a Guggenheim Fellowship (1969), and a National Endowment for the Humanities Grant (1973).
Brooks developed Alzheimer's disease around 1985 and died in East Hampton, New York in 1992.
Charlotte Park graduated from the Yale School of Fine Art (1939) and during World War II, when working in Washington, D.C., she met James Brooks. They moved to New York City in 1945, where she studied with Australian artist Wallace Harrison. Park taught children's art classes at several private schools in the early 1950s and at the Museum of Modern Art, 1955-1967.
Park's approach to Abstract Expressionism featured curved or linear shapes with vibrant colors and dynamic brushstrokes. Tanager Gallery presented her first solo show in 1957 and her work was included in numerous group exhibitions from the 1950s through 2000s, mainly in New York City and Long Island. After Park's second solo exhibition, held in 1973 at Elaine Benson Gallery, Bridgehampton, New York, interest in her work revived; other one-person shows followed at Guild Hall (1979), Ingber Gallery (1980), and paired with James Brooks at Louise Himelfarb Gallery. The National Institute of Arts and Letters honored Park with its Art Award in 1974. Her work is in the permanent collections of the Parrish Art Museum, Guild Hall Museum, Telfair Museum of Art, and in many private collections.
Charlotte Park died in 2010.
The Brooklyn Museum had its roots in the Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences, founded 1823. The Museum was formed in 1889.
Norma Broude (1941- ) and Mary Garrard (1937- ) are art historians and educators in Washington, D.C. Broud and Garrard were members of the WCA (Gerrard was president from 1974-1976) which came into existence after a College Art Association meeting in San Francisco, California,1972.
Henry Kirke Brown (1814-1886) was an American sculptor and portrait painter born in Leyden, Massachusetts and died in Newburgh, New York.
Robert Delford Brown (1930-2009) was a painter, sculptor, and performance artist practicing in New York City, N.Y. Brown was a participant in many art happenings in New York during the 1960s and frequently performed in the persona of a religious leader and founder of his own religion and church, The First National Church of the Exquisite Panic, Inc. which functioned as a community arts space.
Brown was born in Portland, Colorado. His family later moved to Long Beach, California, and he received bachelor's and master's degrees at University of California, Los Angeles. He began his career as a Surrealist and Abstract Expressionist painter, and in 1959 moved to New York City. In 1963 he married Rhett Cone. While visiting Paris he met the artist Allan Kaprow who encouraged him to participate in a 1964 performance of Karlheinz Stockhausen's "Originale." This performance served as the inspiration for founding The First National Church of Exquisite Panic, Inc. That same year Brown also gained media attention for his "Meat Show," an installation of raw meat which he created in a refrigerated room at the Washington Meat Market in New York City.
In 1967 Brown selected a former New York City branch library as a home for his church and hired Modernist architect Paul Rudolph to redesign the interior. He called the space "The Great Building Crack-Up" and lived there until 1997, hosting art exhibitions, happenings, and preaching his philosophy known as Pharblongence. During Brown's later career he organized many participatory art events, such as "Collaborative Action Gluings." He moved to Houston, Texas in 1997 and later moved to Wilmington, North Carolina, in preparation for a solo exhibition at the Cameron Art Museum in 2008. Robert Delford Brown died in 2009.
Son of artists Byron and Rosalind Bengelsdorf Browne; New York, N.Y.
Andrew Bucci (1922-2014) was a painter and watercolorist in Maryland.
U.S. President.
The Buehr family was a prominent Chicago family of artists, which included Karl Albert Buehr, his wife Mary Hess Buehr, their children Kathleen Buehr Granger and George F. Buehr, and Karl Buehr's brother-in-law, Will Hess.
Born in 1866 in Germany, Karl Albert Buehr was a painter of genre scenes, portraits, and Impressionist landscapes. He studied at the Art Institute of Chicago, the Julian Academy in France and the London School of Art. From 1899 to 1902 he lived in Holland, and then spent the first decade of the twentieth century at Giverny, France. A member of the Giverny artists, Buehr exhibited widely in Europe. Buehr became a U.S. citizen and served in the U.S. Cavalry during the Spanish-American War. In Chicago he became a highly respected teacher at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago and one of the city's most popular painters. Buehr died in Chicago in 1952.
Karl's wife, Mary Hess Buehr, was born in Chicago in 1871. She was a painter who studied in Holland and France, and held three exhibitions at the Paris Salon. Mary specialized in miniatures and decorative paintings. She was also a lithographer, lecturer, and teacher active in Chicago. She died in Orwell, Vermont, in 1962.
Their children, Kathleen and George F. Buehr, were both artists as well. George, known for his watercolors and collages, was director of museum education and a lecturer at the Art Institute of Chicago. He died in Chicago in 1983 at age 78. Kathleen was born in Chicago in 1902. A graduate of the Art Institute of Chicago, Kathleen was painter and author. Several of her articles are found in the papers, including "My Most Unforgettable Character," published in 1969 in The Reader's Digest.
Italian-born sculptor Beniamino Bufano (1898-1970) was active primarily in San Francisco for most of his career. Bufano was known for his large-scale monuments and modernist work which often featured smooth and rounded animal forms.
Bufano was born in San Fele, Italy, and moved to New York in 1901. He studied at the Art Students' League under James Fraser, Herbert Adams, and Paul Manship. In 1914, Manship invited Bufano and Robert Treat Paine to work in San Francisco on sculptures for the Panama-Pacific International Exposition, and in 1915 Bufano won first prize in an art exhibition held by Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney. Bufano married in 1918 and moved to California where he met art patrons Sara Bard Field and Charles Erskine Scott Wood. This patronage allowed Bufano to travel to China, where he studied glazing and became friends with Sun Yat-Sen, India, Cambodia, and elsewhere for the next several years; he was profoundly influenced by his experiences on this and subsequent trips.
Bufano returned to San Francisco in 1921 and taught at the San Francisco Art Institute until 1923 when he founded the short-lived Davinci School of Allied Arts. In 1925 he launched a solo exhibition at the City of Paris Galleries which, over the next eight years, traveled to other locations in the United States and abroad including Paris, London, Berlin, and Moscow.
During this time, Bufano spent two years in Paris where he completed St. Francis of Assisi, which he intended to give to the City of San Francisco and which became perhaps his best known and most controversial work.
In the 1930s Bufano was employed by the Works Progress Adminstration's Federal Arts Project, during which time he completed some of his abstracted bronze and stone animals and a statue of Sun Yat-sen. In 1946 he established Bufano Studios Inc., also known as Bufano Society for the Arts, with a nine-person board of directors.
Also an educator, Bufano lectured on art over the radio and in classrooms, and in the 1960s taught at the University of California at Berkeley and the California College of Arts and Crafts in Oakland. He held a position on the San Francisco Arts Commission from 1944-1948, serving as commissioner in 1947.
Interior designer. Born in Norway, Bull came to New York City and executed designs for McKim, Mead, and White and other architects for the city's great mansions.
Painter Dennis Miller Bunker (1861-1890) was born in New York City and from 1878 to 1881 studied at the National Academy of Design and the Art Students League with William Merritt Chase. He traveled to Paris and attended the Ecole des Beaux Art where Jean-Leon Gerome was his teacher, graduating in 1885. He returned to the United States and took at job in Boston teaching at the Cowles Art School. That same year Bunker had his first one-man exhibition at the Noyes & Blakeslee Gallery in Boston. In the winter of 1885-1886 he met and befriended Isabella Stewart Gardner who became a great supporter and patron of his work. A few years later in 1887 Bunker met John Singer Sargent during Sargent's visit to Boston and, in 1888, spent the summer with Sargent at Calcot Mill in England painting plein-air landscapes. That summer was a turning point for Bunker's painting style as he became greatly influenced by impressionism and turned to brighter colors and looser brushwork. He brought this style back with him to Boston and was praised for his new work.
Bunker always felt like an outsider in Boston's society and in the Spring of 1889 resigned his teaching position at Cowles Art School, lived briefly that summer at Medfield, Massachusetts, and then moved back to New York City. Earlier that year he had met Eleanor Heady of Boston and they were married in October 1890. They moved into Sherwood Studios in New York City, but during a visit to Boston that Christmas Bunker fell ill and died at the age of 29.
Addison Burbank (1898-1961) was a painter and writer in New York, N.Y.
Painter; Great Neck, N.Y. Born 1925.
Portrait painter, teacher, conservator, photographer, and writer. Burdick was born in East Killingly, Conn. and studied at the Lowell Institute and the School of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. After working in Providence, R.I., he moved to Boston in 1864 where he set up a studio and became a member of the Boston Art Club. He is best known for his portraits in crayon and oil.
Businessman. Burdick helped develop the American railroad system in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. In addition, he organized the West Penn Steel Company in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He and Frederic Remington were good friends.
Painter, poet, editor; New York, N.Y. b. 1882 Died Jan. 1967, at age 84.
Painter, poet, and editor; New York, N.Y. b. 1882 Died Jan. 1967, at age 84.
Burns was the Chief of the Branch of Museums of the National Park Service in Harpers Ferry, West Virginia.
Museum curator, painter; New York, N.Y. Curator of Paintings at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, 1909-1934.
Writer (New York City).
Xenia Kashevaroff Cage (1913-1995) was an artist, cataloguer, and conservator in the department of prints and drawings at the Union Museum (now the Cooper-Hewitt Smithsonian Design Museum) in New York, NY where she met Sonday who was an assistant in the textile department.
Holger Cahill was born Sveinn Kristjan Bjarnarson in Iceland in a small valley near the Arctic Circle, on January 13, 1887. His parents, Bjorn Jonson and Vigdis Bjarnadottir, immigrated to the United States from Iceland sometime later in the 1880s. In 1904, his father deserted the family, forcing Sveinn to be separated from his mother and sister to work on a farm in North Dakota. He ran away and wandered from job to job until settling in an orphanage in western Canada, where he attended school and became a voracious reader.
As a young man, he worked at many different jobs and attended night school. While working on a freighter, he visited Hong Kong, beginning his life-long interest in the Orient. Returning to New York City, he eventually became a newspaper reporter, continued his studies at New York University, and changed his name to Edgar Holger Cahill. In 1919 he married Katherine Gridley of Detroit. Their daughter, Jane Ann, was born in 1922, but the couple divorced in 1927.
Cahill met John Sloan circa 1920, and they shared a residence. Cahill also wrote publicity (until 1928) for the Society of Independent Artists, through which he made many friends in the arts. From 1922 to 1931, he worked under John Cotton Dana at the Newark Museum, where he received his basic experience in museum work, organizing the first large exhibitions of folk art.
From 1932 to 1935, he was the director of exhibitions for the Museum of Modern Art. In 1935, Cahill was appointed director of the Works Progress/Projects Administration (WPA) Federal Art Project (FAP), until its end in June 1943. In 1938, Cahill organized a countrywide exhibition "American Art Today" for the New York World's Fair. He also married MoMa curator Dorothy Canning Miller in that year.
Profane Earth, Cahill's first novel, was published in 1927, followed by monographs on Pop Hart and Max Weber, miscellaneous short stories, and a biography of Frederick Townsend Ward, entitled A Yankee Adventurer: The Story of Ward and the Taiping Rebellion. Following the end of the Federal Art Project, Cahill wrote two novels, Look South to the Polar Star (1947) and The Shadow of My Hand (1956).
Holger Cahill died in Stockbridge, Massachusetts in July 1960.
Painter; New York, N.Y. Died 1993.
Sculptor and kinetic artist Alexander Calder was born in 1898 in Lawnton, Pennsylvania. As the son of two artists, he was encouraged to sculpt and construct things in his own workshop at an early age. In 1919 he graduated from Stevens Institute of Technology with a degree in mechanical engineering, and after holding several jobs, he decided to take classes at the Art Students League in New York City. He began exhibiting his paintings, but also focused on drawing, illustration, and wood and wire sculpture. In 1926 Calder moved to Paris and began making toys for his performance piece, "Cirque Calder." He married Louisa James in 1931 and exhibited his mobiles for the first time the same year. He continued to spend his time between New York and Paris, and he and Louisa also bought a farm in Roxbury, Connecticut. They had two children, Sandra and Mary. Calder befriended many influential artists, including Joan Mirò, Fernand Léger, Marcel Duchamp, and Yves Tanguy, and joined the Abstraction-Création group in 1931. He exhibited and worked on commissions extensively throughout his career. As a very prolific artist, he had alliances with several galleries, including the Pierre Matisse Gallery in New York. Later in his career, Calder began focusing on large-scale outdoor sculptures. He died in 1976 at the age of 78.
John Caldwell (1941-1993) was a curator and art critic in New York, NY, Pittsburg, PA, and San Francisco, CA. He was born on November 16, 1941 in Nashville, Tennessee. He received a bachelor's degree in modern French history from Harvard University in 1963 and his master's degree in art history from Hunter College, New York, NY, in 1973. While studying at Hunter, Caldwell also served as associate editor at the New-York Historical Society (1967-1973). From 1973 to 1976, Caldwell pursued a doctorate in eighteenth and nineteenth century American art history at Yale University and worked as an assistant to the curator of American art at the Yale University Art Gallery in New Haven, CT.
In 1975, Caldwell won an Andrew W. Mellon Fellowship with the Metropolitan Museum of Art; in 1977, he was appointed assistant curator of American art at the museum. From 1980 to 1984, Caldwell served as art critic for the suburban weekly sections of the New York Times. During this period, Caldwell's interest in contemporary art grew. In 1984, Caldwell accepted a position as adjunct curator of contemporary art at the Carnegie Museum of Art in Pittsburgh, PA. A year later he was promoted to curator of contemporary art at the museum, a position that he held until 1989. Both Caldwell and John R. Lane, the director of the Carnegie Museum of Art, infused new energy into the 1985 Carnegie International, a triennial exhibition, that brought together many contemporary American and European works of art. Caldwell also spearheaded the 1988 Carnegie International and was the only curator in the history of the museum to have organized two consecutive Internationals. During his tenure at the Carnegie Museum of Art, Caldwell organized solo exhibitions on artists that included Susan Rothenberg (1984), Sean Scully (1985), and Richard Deacon (1988).
In 1989, two years after John R. Lane was appointed director of the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, Caldwell joined his former colleague and served as the first curator of painting and sculpture for the museum. At SFMoMA, Caldwell organized retrospective exhibitions on artists that included Sigmar Polke (1990-91), Luciano Fabro (1992), and Jeff Koons (1992-1993). He also curated one person shows of new works by artists that included Matthew Barney (1991), Sherrie Levine (1991), and Susana Solana (1991).
Caldwell died in 1993 at the age of 51 in Miami Beach, Florida.
The largest and most influential Los Angeles art organization during the early 20th century, the California Art Club was organized in 1909 from the Painters' Club. The group holds exhibitions, member talks, and other programs.
Art museum; San Francisco, California.
Bessie S. Callender (1889-1951) was a sculptor known for her direct carving of animals. Born in Kansas, Callender studied in New York City and married reporter Harold Callender. The Callenders travelled abroad and lived in London.
Painter; Pacific Northwest; d. 1986.
Kimberly Camp (1956- ) is an African American painter, dollmaker, and arts administrator in Collingswood, New Jersey. She was the founding director of The Experimental Gallery at the Smithsonian Institution from 1989 to 1994, president of the Charles Wright Museum of African American History from 1994 to 1998, and executive director of the Barnes Foundation from 1999 to 2005. She was a fellow for the National Endowment for the Arts Expansion Arts Program in 1986 and a fellow at the Kellogg National Leadership Program from 1997 to 2000.
Camp received a B.A. from the University of Pittsburgh in studio arts and art history, and an M.S. in arts administration, and also participated in programs at Harvard Business School, University of Victoria, and Gallup Leadership Institute. She is the recipient of multiple awards including the Roger L. Stevens Award for Contributions to the Arts and Culture, National Conference of Artists National Service Award, and Purchase Award.
Portrait painter.
Sculptor; Connecticut.
Sylvia Carewe (1906-1981) was a painter and tapissere in New York, N.Y.
Cultural and political society; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Promoted the work of German artists in America and worked to develop German-American relations. Publishers of The American-German Review.
Margaret Carney (1949- ) is the Director of the Dinnerware Museum, Ann Arbor, Michigan and was the director of the Schein-Joseph International Museum of Ceramic Art in Alfred, N.Y. Carney used to go by the name Margaret Carney Xie.
Ohio and Washington, D.C. art museum curator and art critic Carolyn Kinder Carr spent her early career in Akron, Ohio as an art critic for the Akron Beacon Journal and as curator of the Akron Art Institute. She wrote extensively on the art scene in Northeast Ohio, including Akron, Kent, and Cleveland before moving to Washington, D.C. to become curator at the National Portrait Gallery. In 2008, she was named Deputy Director and Chief Curator of the Smithsonian's National Portrait Gallery.
Painter; East Chatham, New York.
Painter, designer, director of Federal Art Project; Cleveland, Ohio.
The Carus Gallery was founded by Dorothea Carus Isserstedt (1914-2002). The gallery's primary interest was in European Graphic Arts, specifically German Expressionism, and Russian Constructivism. The gallery exhibited works by Alexander Archipenko, Ernst Barlach, Max Beckmann, Heinrich Campendonk, Otto Dix, Lyonel Feininger, Natalia Goncharova, George Grosz, Erich Heckel, Alexej Jawlensky, Wassily Kandinsky, Ernst Ludwig Kirchner, Paul Klee, Gustav Klimt, Max Klinger, Kathe Kollowitz, El Lissitzky, Kazimir Malevich, László Moholy-Nagy, Marlow Moss, Otto Mueller, Edvard Munch, Emil Nolde, Christian Rohlfs and Egon Schiele.
In 1968, following the death of her parents, Isserstedt opened the Carus Gallery, which was located on the ground level of her home at 243 E 82nd street in New York. The gallery was relocated to Madison Avenue in 1974 and finally to 1044 Madison Avenue where it remained until Isserstedt's retirement in 1996.
Dorothy was born in 1914 in Elberfeld, Germany. She studied art history and archeology at Freiburg University, receiving a doctorate in 1944. Towards the end of World War II Dorothy escaped to East Germany where she settled in Hamburg and found work as a supervisor with the British Forces Network. In 1952 she immigrated to Yorkville, NY where she worked in her father's print and framing shop. Dorothy became an American citizen in 1957.
Painter, stained glass artist, and educator; San Antonio, Texas.
Timothy Casper (1943-1964) was a printmaker and draftsman from Milwaukee, Wisconsin whose artistic ability was recognized at a young age by artist and professor Gerald Landt, leading to Casper enrolling in special art classes at the Milwaukee Art Institute in 1953. From there Casper continued studying art throughout high school at the Putney School in Vermont, going on to start his bachelor's degree in art history at New York University in 1962. During his short life Casper managed to travel across Europe and the East Coast of the United States, visiting art museums and historical landmarks, including a fateful trip to Paris in 1964 where Casper died as a result of injuries sustained in a car accident. After his death, his mother Elise Ott Casper organized a series of memorial exhibitions across the United States as well as at the Galerie Wolfgang Gurlitt in Munich, Germany.
Painter Mary Cassatt (1844-1926) lived and worked in Paris, France. She is one of the preeminent Impressionists known for her depictions of both the social and domestic lives of women and their children.
Cassatt was born in Allegheny City, Pennsylvania and began her art studies at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts at the age of sixteen. In 1865, she traveled to Paris to further her art studies under the private tutelage of Jean-Léon Gérôme and Thomas Couture, and augmented these studies with daily copying at the Louve. From 1868 to 1877, she traveled to Italy, Spain, Belgium, and Holland to view and copy the old masters and produced works that were accepted into the Paris Salon. With the encouragement of Edgar Degas, Cassatt began painting in the avant-garde Impressionist style in 1877. For the next ten years, Cassatt exhibited Impressionist paintings to critical international acclaim. After 1887, she began to experiment with other mediums and techniques, though she continued to focus her subject matter on the lives of women and children. Through the 1890s, she became a mentor to young American artists, acted as an advisor to American art collectors, and served as an ambassador for various art institutions. In 1904, she received France's Légion d'Honneur and continued producing works through the 1900s. In 1915, Cassatt stopped painting due to her failing eyesight, and lived in Le Mesnil-Théribus, France until her death in 1926.
Painter; Philadelphia, Pa. and Europe. Emily Sartain was the daughter of John Sartain. She studied both with her father and Christian Schussele at the Pennsylvania Academy. She won several awards at the Academy and taught at the Philadelphia School of Art and Design.
Women's art club organized 1896. in New York City as a club for women artists, craftswomen and musicians through the bequest of art collector Catherine Lorrillard Wolfe.
Portrait painter, miniature painter, ethnographer; Pennsylvania Best known for his paintings of the American Indian. Born in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania.
The Century Association or Club was a prominent New York social club, whose membership was primarily drawn from men involved with the arts. It held exhibitions and built a collection.
Museum director, writer and archaelogist. Born Italy. Came to the United States in 1860.
Andre Champollion was a descendent of J. F. Champollion, who deciphered the Rosetta Stone. He graduated from Harvard College, ca. 1900, and resided in New York City; spending summers in Newport, New Hampshire on his grandfather's, Austin Corbin's, game park (now Blue Mountain Forest Park). Champollion joined the French army and was killed in action during World War I.
Elenora S. Chambers is a painter and sculptor active in Miami, Florida. Chambers was born in Portland, Oregon, and has lived and exhibited in Florida since the 1960s. Her son, Robert Chambers, is also a sculptor.
Cartoonist for THE MASSES and LIBERATOR, radical periodicals, as well as several established newspapers. Chamberlain was a cartoonist of considerable importance ca. 1910-1920; among his colleagues were John Sloan and Maurice Becker.
Art gallery; San Antonio, Texas. Established 1977 by Anne Alexander, President of the gallery.
Art club and school.
Organized in 1883 by a group of art students and friends of art for the purpose of conducting art classes and for holding exhibitions. The exhibitions varied from weekly one-man shows to the annual juried exhibition of Contemporary American art. From 1910 to 1926, this all-American show was the high point of Baltimore's brief art season. It brought paintings by such "modernists" as John Sloan, George Luks, Frank Benson, Robert Henri, Leon Kroll, and Arthur B. Davies to Baltimore for the first time. The club's membership, which remained strictly male until 1963, was composed of painters, sculptors, writers, architects, musicians, and art patrons. In the early twentieth century the club had two hundred members including such prominent men as Governor Albert C. Richie, Ferdinand C. Latrobe, Robert Garrett, Waldo Newcomer, General Felix Agnus, Edwin F. Abell, S. Teakle Wallis, William T. Walters and his son Henry, Ross R. Winans, Dr. A. R. L. Dohme, and Theodore Marburg.
Aside from serious art exhibitions, the club was known for its practical jokes, smokers, poker nights, wild parties, and spirited battles with the Baltimore Museum of Art.
Gropius was an architect, educator and founder of the Bauhaus school. Born in Berlin, he studied at the University of Charlottenburg-Berlin and Munich.
Maryette Charlton (1924-2013) was a painter, printmaker, photographer, filmmaker and arts advocate based in Chicago, Illinois, and New York, New York.
Maryette Charlton was born in Manchester, Iowa on May 18, 1924. Her parents were Shannon and Etna Charlton and she had 2 siblings. Charlton pursued her undergraduate studies at Monticello College and Northwestern University in Illinois, Antioch College in Ohio, and the University of Colorado before receiving a B.F.A. from Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, New York in 1947. She continued her studies in Chicago, Illinois with Laszlo Moholy-Nagy and Hugo Weber at the Institute of Design and Art Institute of Chicago. From 1948 to 1952, she was a Department of Education lecturer at the Art Institute of Chicago museum galleries and also gave talks at schools for the Chicago Public School Art Society.
Between 1942-1951, Maryette Charlton worked as a color analyst for the Container Corporation of America. In 1952, Charlton founded the Art Department of the American University of Beirut and taught there as an assistant professor until 1956. While in Beirut, Charlton married photographer Hall Winslow in 1953 and their only child Kirk Winslow was born in 1955. Winslow and Charlton later divorced in 1973.
Charlton moved to New York City in 1955. She began a master's program at Columbia University and graduated with a M.F.A in film and printmaking in 1958.
Charlton made numerous documentary films, mostly about American artists including Alexander Calder, e. e. cummings, Jeanne Reynal, Dorothy Miller, Pierre Matisse, Lenore Tawney, and Loren MacIver. She also worked tirelessly to promote the work of sculptor, architect, and set designer Frederick Kiesler. She was the camera woman for Kiesler's Kiesler's Universal Theater which aired on CBS in 1962. She became close friends with Kiesler's widow, Lillian, and they collaborated on the film Kiesler on Kiesler and numerous other film and art projects, supporting the work of young artists. Charlton also worked on commissioned films, including The Mosaics of Jeanne Reynal and Zen in Ryoko-in. Charlton befriended many artists in the visual, literary, and film worlds, including Elizabeth Bishop, Dimitri Hadzi, Margo Hoff, James Purdy, and Delphine Seyrig.
A performer in her own right, Charlton appeared in the works of Richard Foreman, Jo Andres, and others. She also played the part of Helen Keller in the film Ghostlight (2003).
An Iowa native, Charlton founded the University of Iowa Museum of Art together with Leone and Owen Elliott. She maintained a close relationship with the Iowa Museum over many years as a donor and chronicler.
Charlton died in New York City on November 25, 2013.
Painter, lithographer, craftsman, writer, teacher; New York, N.Y. b. 1909.
Organized 1910.
Edwin Burrage Child (1868-1937) was a landscape and portrait painter who lived and worked in New York City and Dorset, Vermont, and was most known for his male portraiture.
Child was born in Gouverneur, New York in 1868 to Jonathan Bush Child and Sarah Burnham. In the 1880s, Child attended Amherst College and received art lessons during the summers from artist Margaret C. Whiting (1860-1946). In 1890, he graduated from Amherst College and moved to New York City to pursue a career as an artist, becoming a student in 1891 at the Art Students League. Child's artistic debut was in 1892 at the National Academy of Design annual exhibition. From 1891 to 1895, he studied under painter, muralist, and stained-glass designer John LaFarge (1835-1910), and worked as his assistant from 1896-1901. Edwin Burrage Child then spent many years working as an illustrator and writer for leading periodicals such as Scribner's, Harper's, McClure's, and others.
As a landscape painter, Child was awarded a medal at the Louisiana Purchase Exhibition in St. Louis in 1904, and the majority of his landscapes were modeled from his summer home in Dorset, Vermont. In 1908, his focused moved to easel painting -- primarily landscapes and portraits. Child was most known for his portraits of intellectual males, with sitters including Senator Dwight M. Morrow, Governor Wilbur L. Cross of Connecticut, Professor John Dewey, and painter Ivan G. Olinsky, among many others. His work appeared in shows at the National Academy of Design and the Society of Independent Artists in New York, as well as the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, the Art Institute of Chicago, and the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington, D. C. He also had many one-man shows over the years, primarily in New York City. In 1930, the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D. C. held an exhibition of his portraits.
Child was married to Anna Gertrude Sykes in 1894, and they had three children: Katherine E. (1895-1966), Bradford (1896-1948), and Sargent Burrage (1900-1972). Child also made furniture as a hobby and remodeled his home in Dorset Hollow, as well as Gray's Tavern, which later became the Dorset Village Public Library. Additionally, he was a frequent lecturer, speaking at colleges and universities, including Yale, Michigan State College, Columbia, City College of New York, and Massachusetts State College at Amherst. Child spent the last ten years of his life living in Dorset, Vermont, and died in 1937.
Museum director and educator; Houston, Texas. Director of the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston.
Sculptor, painter; Houston, Tex. and New York, N.Y.
Art historian, writer, museum curator, and educator; Berkeley, Calif. Born 1913. Died 1992.
Painter; Detroit, Michigan.
The Christine Burgin Gallery (established 1986; closed 2007), owned and operated by Christine Burgin, was a gallery in New York City that represented conceptual artists from the United States and Europe. The gallery operated from 1986-1992 and from 1999-2007. Gallery artists included Zoe Beloff, Victor Burgin, Ian Hamilton Finlay, Harrell Fletcher, Rodney Graham, Fariba Hajamadi, Paul Lincoln, Max Neuhaus, Richard Nonas, Hermann Pitz, Allen Ruppersberg, Victoria Sambunaris, Alan Saret, Jeanne Silverthorne, Michael Smith, and many others. In addition to staging solo and group exhibitions, the gallery produced numerous publications and editions in collaboration with artists.
Christine Burgin continues to publish books with her imprint at New Directions.
Washington, D.C. photographer, painter, sculptor, and educator William Christenberry (1936-2016) was a pioneer in the use of color photography and is known for his images of west-central Alabama and his explorations of the psychology of place.
Originally from Hale County, Alabama, Christenberry had an interest in art and photography from an early age. He earned his B.F.A. and M.F.A. from the University of Alabama and, after graduating in 1959, joined the faculty at his alma mater. After a brief stint in New York where he met Walker Evans, Christenberry took a position as assistant professor of art at Memphis State University in 1962. While in Memphis, Christenberry began exploring color photography more thoroughly while also crafting his own unique style; he also organized a small happening in Memphis in 1965.
Christenberry and his wife moved to Washington D.C. in 1968 where he took a position at the Corcoran College of Art and Design. While living in D.C., Christenberry began photographing buildings and hand-lettered signs, and photographed other structures and scenes during trips back to Hale County.
Christenberry held solo exhibitions of his work at The Corcoran Gallery of Art, Montgomery Museum of Fine Arts, Philadelphia Museum of Art, The Philips Collection, Palais des Beaux-Arts in Brussels, Belgium, and many more; and participated in group exhibitions such as Visualizing the Blues: Images of the American South, 1962-2000 (2000) at the Ogden Museum of Southern Art, New Orleans, Picturing Modernity (2010) at the San Francisco Museum of Art, and Seeing Now: Photography Since 1960 (2011) at the Baltimore Museum of Art. He received a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1984, an honorary doctoral degree from the University of Alabama in 1998, and several other notable awards for artistic merit. His work may be found in the collections of the J. Paul Getty Museum, Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Center for Creative Photography, Birmingham Museum of Art, and many others.
Frederick Stuart Church (1842-1924) was a painter, etcher, and illustrator in New York, New York, who specialized in animals. Born in Grand Rapids, Michigan, Church studied in New York City at the National Academy of Design and joined the Art Students League. By the 1870s he had a reputation as a gifted illustrator and worked for many magazines including various Harper's publications. He was most well known for his depictions of animals, and his paintings were purchased by leading art collectors of the day, including Charles Lang Freer, Henry Clay Frick, and Potter Palmer. Emma Louise Klots was a patron of Church.
Frederick Stuart Church (1842-1924) was a painter, etcher, and illustrator in New York, New York, who specialized in animals.
Born in Grand Rapids, Michigan, Church studied in New York City at the National Academy of Design and joined the Art Students League. By the 1870s he had a reputation as a gifted illustrator and worked for many magazines including various Harper's publications. He was most well-known for his depictions of animals, and his paintings were purchased by leading art collectors of the day, including Charles Lang Freer, Henry Clay Frick, and Potter Palmer.
Landscape painter Raymond Ciarrocchi (b. 1933) has spent much of his life in New York City, exhibiting regularly and teaching at Parsons School of Design, Columbia University, and the Baruch College of City University.
A native of Chicago, he studied at the Chicago Academy of Fine Arts, Washington University (B.A.), and Boston University (M.F.A.). Beginning in 1971, Tibor de Nagy Gallery presented seven solo exhibitions of Ciarrocchi's work; after 1985 he was represented by Fischbach Gallery. Typically, he works in oil on canvas, though he has produced several monotype series, including one featuring Russian ballet dancer Vaslav Nijinsky.
Painter; New York (N.Y.)
Painter; Houston, Tex.
Painter and printmaker Minna Wright Citron (1896-1991) was active in New York City, New York. She worked with the Works Progress Administration Federal Art Project as a teacher and completed multiple murals for Tennessee post offices.
Born in Newark, New Jersey, Minna Wright Citron began her study of art at the Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences in 1924. She juggled the work of raising two small sons, a husband, and her art career and had her first solo exhibition in 1930 at New School for Social Research. In 1934, she divorced her husband Henry Citron and moved her children, Casper and Thomas, from Brooklyn to Manhattan.
Citron spent her early career as a painter, muralist, and educator. After World War II, she began to experiment with printmaking techniques and produced woodblock prints, etchings, and lithographs. She exhibited her works around the world, notably in Zagreb, Croatia (formerly Yugoslavia).
Minna Wright Citron died in 1991.
Art dealer, New York, N.Y. Directed F[rank] K.M. Rehn, Inc. art gallery. Died 1981. Luks was a painter, illustrator, and cartoonist and a member of "The Eight."
Judith Clancy (1933-1990) was an artists' model, dancer, and illustrator in New York City, New York and San Francisco, California. She studied art at a young age with Moses Soyer, and later worked for him as a model. After moving to San Francisco, Clancy focused on fine line-drawings of local landmarks in the Bay Area and portraits.
Painter; Great Barrington, Massachusetts.
Painter, portrait painter, art administrator. Born in Trenton, New Jersey. Studied with William Merritt Chase. Painted murals for the State House in New Jerey. Key in establishing Trenton's School of Industrial Design in 1890, and served for 18 years on its' board of trustees. Died in Martha's Vineyard.
Thomas Benedict Clarke (1848-1931) was a prominent New York businessman and one of the first major collectors of contemporary American paintings in the 1870s-1880s. He purchased his first painting in 1872 and eventually amassed one of the largest private collections of American art at the turn of the century.
After retiring from the business world, Clarke served as President of the New York School of Applied Design for Women, Treasurer of the National Society of Arts, and Chairman of the House Committee of the Union League Club. He was a founding member of the National Sculpture Society and National Arts Club, and founded the Clarke Prize of the National Academy of Design in 1883. He was also a member of several New York gentlemen's clubs, including the Century, Lotos, Lamb, and Manhattan Clubs.
In 1890, Clarke announced he would no longer officially acquire or deal in works of art, except as an agent for his friend, George Inness. Concentrating his attentions on a new venture, in 1891, he opened "Art House" off of Fifth Avenue in New York City, a showcase for English furniture, Oriental porcelains, and Continental antiquities. In 1899, he announced he would be putting his collection of 375 American paintings up for sale during a landmark, week-long auction at the American Art Association. Included in the sale were 32 works by George Inness and 30 works by Winslow Homer.
In 1912, Clarke returned to active art collecting, this time focusing his energies on building a collection of Colonial American art.
American expatriate sculptor; Paris, France.
Painter, printer, and art teacher Gabrielle de Veaux Clements (1858-1948) lived and worked in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Baltimore, Maryland; and Folly Cove near Gloucester, Massachusetts. She was known for her etchings and her commissioned murals for the cities of Baltimore and Washington, D.C.
Clements was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania to physician Richard Clements and his wife, Gabrielle De Vaux. Her interest in art was supported by her family and, at the age of seventeen, she began studying lithography with the designer Charles Page at the Philadelphia School of Design for Women. After graduating in 1880 from Cornell University, where she had produced a number of scientific drawings and lithographs, Clements studied with painter Thomas Eakins at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts and won the school's Toppan Prize. In 1883, Clements was introduced to etching techniques by the artist Stephen Parrish and began exhibiting and printing her works professionally.
In 1884, Clements traveled abroad to Paris to study at the Academie Julian where she was joined in 1885 by fellow painter and future lifelong companion Ellen Day Hale. Upon returning to her Philadelphia studio in 1885, Clements taught other female artists, including Margaret Bush-Brown, and exhibited in numerous institutions, including the National Academy of Design and the Boston Museum of Fine Arts. In 1895, Clements moved to Baltimore to teach art at the newly established Bryn Mawr School, where she remained until 1908. During her tenure in Baltimore, she was commissioned by the Bendann Galleries to etch nine views of Baltimore and also painted five church murals in Washington, D.C., which led to subsequent murals in Detroit, Philadelphia, and Chicago.
Clements and Hale frequently traveled abroad, visiting France, Italy, Egypt, Syria, and Palestine, and spent summers at "The Thickets," the house they purchased in the artists' colony at Folly Cove. During World War I, they wintered in Charleston, South Carolina where they opened their studios to young female artists and taught innovative etching, painting, and color printmaking techniques. After the war, they again opened their studios in Folly Cove to young artists and continued to teach and experiment with soft-ground etching and aquatints in color. This work was highlighted in special exhibitions at the J.B. Speed Art Museum and the Smithsonian Institution. Clements died in Rockport, Massachusetts in 1948.
Organized to acquire prints for the Cleveland Museum of Art, to sponsor shows for its member artists at the museum, and to generally promote printmaking.
William Clutz (1933- ) is a painter and art instructor who lived in New York City from 1955-1996 and now resides in Rhinebeck, New York. He was born in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, and later studied at the Mercersburg Academy and University of Iowa before moving to New York City. Clutz's paintings, pastels, and charcoal drawings often depict figures in urban landscapes, with light playing a key role in composition and mood. He has exhibited with a number of galleries over the past several decades including the Bertha Schaefer Gallery, Brooke Alexander Gallery, Alonzo Gallery, Tatistcheff Gallery, the Katharina Rich Perlow Gallery, and others. In addition to his career as a professional artist, Clutz taught painting and drawing at Parsons the New School for Design from 1970-1992.
Painter; San Antonio, Tex.
Printmakers; Chicago, Illinois; husband and wife. Max Kahn is also a graphic artist, sculptor, painter, lithographer, and teacher.
Art collector; New York, N.Y.
Charles Caryl Coleman (1840-1928) was a painter in New York and Italy.
Ed Colker (b. 1927) is a painter, printmaker, educator, and administrator who has worked in Chicago, Philadelphia, and New York City. Colker founded the not-for-profit fine art publisher Haybarn Press. He is married to artist Elaine Galen and resides in Mt. Kisco, NY.
After high school, Colker was awarded a scholarship and began his art education at the Pennsylvania Museum School of Industrial Arts. He interrupted his studies to serve in the U.S. Army (1944-1946). He graduated in 1949, by which time the school had become the Philadelphia Museum School of Art; today it is the University of the Arts. He taught art in the Philadelphia area before moving to New York City in 1956. Later, Colker earned degrees from New York University (B.S. Ed, 1964; M.A., 1985).
Colker taught art and design courses at the University of Pennsylvania, University of Illinois at Chicago Circle, Cornell University, Pratt Institute, and Philadelphia College of Art. By the 1980s, he had become an administrator as well as a professor. Throughout his academic career, Colker published and lectured widely, served as a visiting artist, acted as a consultant, and participated in professional organizations. He occasionally organized exhibitions and served on exhibition juries.
Since 1960, under the imprints Editions du Grenier, Haybarn Editions, and Haybarn Press, Colker has published limited edition books, portfolios, broadsides, individual pages, and folders of poetry. Most are accompanied by Colker's etchings and lithographs inspired by the texts. Haybarn Press, under the Ambor Edition imprint, also produced four portfolios with text and drawings by Elaine Galen, 1996-2008. From its inception, the work of Haybarn Press has been featured in many exhibitions of book arts. Colker also participated in group shows throughout the United States and enjoyed solo exhibitions of his paintings and prints. Haybarn Press productions and Colker's prints and paintings are in the permanent collections of Brown University, Cornell University, Harvard University, Library of Congress, Museum of Modern Art, New York Public Library, University of Arizona Museum of Art, and others.
Now retired from university administration and teaching, Colker continues to operate Haybarn Press and occasionally serves as an exhibition juror and visiting artist.
Administrator for the Section of Professional and non-Manual Projects of Federal Emergency Relief Administration (FERA), Washington, D.C. Became publicist for the Information Service of the Works Progress Administration (WPA). FERA was the forerunner of the WPA.
Founded 1919 as the Broadmoor Art Academy by Mr. And Mrs. Spencer Penrose. The Academy became affiliated with Colorado College in 1926 and was reincorporated as the Colorado Springs Fine Arts Center in 1936.
Former president of Haverford College; Haverford, Pa.
Kristin G. Congdon (1948-) is an art historian, artist, and writer in Winter Park, Florida.­ Congdon is professor Emerita of Philosophy and Humanities at the University of Central Florida.
Stained glass artist; Boston, Mass. Opened Charles J. Connick Studios, Boston, Mass. in 1913. Revived techniques and designs of English and French designers of the Middle Ages. He worked primarily in ecclesiastical designs. He married Mabel Robinson Coombs in 1920. After his death in 1945, the firm was headed by Orin Skinner, and renamed Charles J. Connick Associates.
Painter, instructor; Monhegen Island, Maine.
W. G. (William George) Constable (1887-1976) was a museum curator and art historian who worked in England and Boston.
Born in Derby, England, Constable studied for the bar at Cambridge University, but was encouraged to pursue art over law by the Lord Chancellor who told him that law would be too strenuous after a two year convalescence from gassing during World War I. For three years, he studied at the Slade School and the Bartlett School of Architecture. In 1923, he joined the National Gallery of London where he became the Assistant Director in 1929. In 1930, he accepted the first Director's position at the newly formed Courtauld Institute, where he worked to develop one of the first programs on art history. In 1938, Constable became Curator of Paintings at the Boston Museum of Fine Arts and worked there until his retirement in 1957.
Throughout his career as an arts administrator, Constable remained an accomplished lecturer and held appointments as the Slade Professor of Art at Cambridge (1933-1936), Ryerson Lecturer at Yale University (1940), and the Lowell Lecturer at the Lowell Insitute (1958). As a researcher and art historian, he published a steady stream of essays on European and American art connoisseurship, and authored over ten scholarly books, including The Painter's Workshop (1953), Richard Wilson (1953), and Canaletto (1962), the definitive work on the Venetian master.
Constable was a trusted arts advisor and, in this capacity, worked for the Wadsworth Atheneum from 1943-1945.
He also worked closely with Lord Beaverbrook to establish the National Gallery of Canada and later consulted for Sotheby's and the U. S. Internal Revenue Service.
In the years leading to World War II, Constable served as an advisor to the American Defense Harvard Group and was later appointed to the Commission for the Protection of Artistic and Historic Monuments in Europe (the Roberts Commission) by President Roosevelt. The Roberts Commission was responsible for the establishment of the U. S. Army's Monuments, Fine Arts, and Archives section. After the war, Constable served the U.S. government as a member of a commission responsible for the recovery of looted art work and the evaluation of the state of the arts in Germany and Italy.
After his retirement from the Boston Museum, Constable continued to research and write, and also served as president of the International Institute of Conservation (1958-1960) and the Renaissance Society of America (1959-1961). From 1957 to 1966, he worked on behalf of Christie's auction house, where he met with prospective clients and provided preliminary valuations of private art works and collections.
On February 4, 1976, Constable died in Cambridge, Massachusetts from natural causes.
Belisario Contreras was an Argentinian born art historian who lived and worked in Albuquerque, New Mexico. In 1983 he published the book "Tradition and Innovation in New Deal Art."
Painter, printmaker; San Francisco, California. Born October 3, 1927 in Chicago, Illinois, and died August 5, 1985 in San Francisco, California.
Born in Belfast, Ireland, and raised in Canada, painter and sculptor Kathleen Cooke was known for her delicate drawings and paintings of animals.
Cooke settled in New York City where she took classes at New York University and the Art Students League. Her first exhibitions were at the Graham Gallery and Betty Parsons Gallery. She also exhibited frequently at New York's Truman Gallery, and internationally in Ireland, Scotland, Switzerland, France, and Denmark.
Collaborator, writer; Massachusetts. Harrison Cady was an illustrator and painter from Rockport, Massachusetts.
Art museum, N.Y., N.Y. Founded 1897. Name changed to Cooper-Hewitt Museum. Housed in the Carnegie Mansion, home of Andrew Carnegie.
Art publication, 1968. S.M.S. (Shit must stop) portfolios were conceived by William N. Copley with Dimitri Petrov as a form of protest against art galleries. Artwork in the portfolios is based on the traditions of Dada, Surrealism, and Pop Art. The portfolios are considered one complete work.
Edward Corbett (1919-1971) and his wife Rosamond Walling Tirana Corbett (1910-1999) were painters from Calif., N.M., Mass., and Washington, D.C. Edward Corbett was an early Abstract Expressionist. Married Rosamond Tirana in 1962. Rosamund Tirana was married to Rifat Tirana (d. 1952). Died June 27, 1999.
Jon Corbino (1905-1964) was a painter in New York, N.Y.
Dean Cornwell (1892-1960) was a muralist, painter, and illustrator who worked primarily in New York.
Cornwell was born in Louisville, Kentucky. He began his career as a cartoonist for the Louisville Herald and then moved to Chicago where he studied at the Art Institute and worked for the Chicago Tribune. In 1915 he moved to New Rochelle, New York where he studied under Harvey Dunn at the Art Students League of New York. Eventually he traveled to London where he began to study mural painting under Frank Brangwyn.
Cornwell was a teacher at the Art Students League in New York, served as President of the Society of Illustrators (1922-1926), and was elected to its Hall of Fame in 1959. In 1934, he was elected Associate Academician into the National Academy of Design, and became a full Academician in 1940. He also served as president of the National Society of Mural painters from 1953 to 1957. At the peak of his career, he earned the nickname "Dean of Illustrators".
Cornwell's artwork was featured in multiple publications including Cosmopolitan, Harper's Bazaar, Redbook, and Good Housekeeping. He painted many murals during his career including those found in the Sir Walter Raleigh Room in the Hotel Warwick, the Lincoln Memorial Shrine in Redlands, and the General Motors Mural at the 1939 World's Fair in New York.
Cornwell died on December 4th, 1960 at the age of sixty-eight in New York City.
Art administrator, painter; Vermont.
Olive Thompson Cowell (1887-1984) was an arts and music patron and educator in San Francisco, California. Cowell attended Barnard College and worked as an educator in California. Later she received an MA from the University of California, Berkeley. She founded the international relations department at San Francisco State University, where she taught until 1956. Married to Henry Clayton Blackwood Cowell, she was the stepmother to pianist Henry Cowell.
Art historian; East Lansing, Mich.
Painter; Santa Fe, NM and New York, NY.
Kenyon Cox was a prominent American painter, lecturer, and art critic. He was born in 1856, in Warren, Ohio, and he studied painting at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts and in Paris, where he befriended artist Augustus Saint-Gaudens. Cox returned to the United States and made a living illustrating magazines and books, and teaching at the Art Students League in New York. In 1892 he married his student Louise Howland King, born in San Francisco in 1865. Together they became prominent painters and were responsible for the murals that decorated the Liberal Arts Building at the 1893 Columbian Exposition in Chicago. During his career, Cox contributed articles and essays on art subjects to various magazines. He was a member of the Society of American Artists, the National Academy of Design, and the American Academy of Arts and Letters. Kenyon Cox died in 1919 and Louise in 1945. Their son, Allyn, born in 1896, became a successful muralist.
Painter, poet; Houston, Tex.
The Cranmer Art Group was founded in New York City, New York in 1988 by Dana Cranmer, an art conservator who was professionally active in New York City from 1970 to 2021. Cranmer spent 11 years with the conservation staff at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York, seven years with the Mark Rothko Foundation, and then opened her private practice, the Cranmer Art Group (CAG) in 1988, which operated until 2021. The Cranmer Art Group specialized in contemporary and 20th century artwork, primarily paintings and works on paper.
Author, art critic, and lecturer Thomas Craven (b.1888) was dubbed the "the principal ideologue of the American Scene" movement by the art historian Matthew Baigell. Craven wrote numerous articles, essays, criticisms, and reviews for Scribners, Harpers, The Dial, The Nation, The New Republic and The Forum. He was art critic for the New York American, the Hearst Paper. After graduating from Kansas Wesleyan University in 1908, Craven lived in Paris for a time. Upon his return to the United States, he settled in Greenwich Village where he began his reaffirmation of American art and culture. He roomed with American painter Thomas Hart Benton and was friends with John Steuart Curry, George Grosz, Reginald Marsh and Grant Wood. Craven's first book, Men of Art, was published in 1931. The book was an art historical survey of painting in the Western world and described as a combination of social history, biography and description and criticism. Craven also wrote Modern Art, A Treasury of Art Masterpieces, and Greek Art. Craven was noted for his often caustic reviews and criticisms of the modernistic movement. He died in 1969 at the age of 81.
Robert Cremean (1932- ) is a sculptor from Los Angeles, Calif.
Painter; Herefordshire, England; b. 1923.
Painter, writer; New York, N.Y. Born Alfredo diGiorgio Crimi in Sicily, Italy.
Allan Rohan Crite (1910-2007) was an African American painter and printmaker in Boston, Massachusetts. He studied at Boston University, the Massachusetts School of Art, the Boston Museum of Fine Arts School, and Harvard University. Crite is best known for his religious illustrations, but also chronicled African American life in Boston in the 1930s-1940s. During the Depression, Crite developed a series of "neighborhood paintings" insprired by Boston's African American community.
Roger Crossgrove (1921-2016) is a painter, photographer, and educator working at the University of Connecticut in Storrs, Connecticut and who is best known for his monotype watercolors.
Roger Crossgrove was born in Farnam, Nebraska. He attended the University of Nebraska where he received his Bachelor of Fine Arts degree in 1949. In 1950, he spent a year painting in Mexico and later returned to live for another year in 1965. In 1951, he received a Master of Fine Arts from the University of Illinois. He also participated in the Yaddo Fellowship in Saratoga Springs, New York for several years beginning in 1957.
From 1953 to 1967, Crossgrove taught at the Pratt Institute's Art School and the Department of Graphic Art and Illustration in Brooklyn, New York, teaching under Albert Christ-Janer for some of that period. He moved to Storrs, Connecticut to teach at the University of Connecticut's School of Fine Arts where he served as head of the Art Department for 20 years. After retiring in 2008, he was awarded Professor Emeritus status and, in 2008, a Lifetime Achievement Award from the university.
Although Crossgrove produced artwork in various mediums over the course of his career, his monotypes are some of his most prolific works. Numerous exhibitions throughout the United States and Mexico have featured Crossgrove's monotypes and other works of art.
Katherine Crum was owner and art dealer at the Nicholas Wilder Gallery, Los Angeles, California from 1964-1969 and director of the Mills College Art Museum, Oakland, California from 1991-2001.
Painter; New York, N.Y. Also Known as Dick Cunningham.
Leah Curtiss-Gould (1893-1979) was an art dealer in New York City, New York and Connecticut and was a dealer in Arthur J. Stone silver from 1936-1975. During the period 1936-1950 Curtiss-Gould worked at Portraits, Inc., a shop in New York City where Stone's silver was sold. Eventually, she opened Curtiss Gallery in Connecticut, which she operated until it was sold in 1970.
Painter; New York, N.Y.
Sculptor. Son of painter Carl Gordon Cutler.
Art historian, art director of the Cedar Rapids Art Center; Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and author of Arthur B. Davies (University of Chicago Press, 1979), and other works on Davies.
Born in Hastings-on-Hudson, New York, in 1925, William P. Daley developed an interest in art at an early age, and was encouraged by his parents William and Alice. In 1943 Daley finished high school and enlisted in the Army Air Corps. When the war ended, he returned home, and with the help of the G.I. Bill, completed a B.S. in Art Education from Massachusetts College of Art, and a M.A. from the Teachers College at Columbia University. While at the Massachusetts College of Art he met and married fellow student Catherine Stennes. They had three children together, Barbara, Charlotte, and Thomas.
Originally intending to focus on painting, Daley discovered his love for ceramics while in art school. Much of his early work after graduation consisted of architectural and sculptural commissions. From 1961 to 1965 he held teaching positions as a ceramics instructor at the University of Northern Iowa, State University of New York at New Paltz, Philadelphia College of Art and Design, and the State University of New York at Fredonia. In 1965 he settled in Elkins Park, Pennsylvania and returned to the Philadelphia College of Art and Design, University of the Arts. There he taught in both the Industrial Design and Craft Department until his retirement from the college in 1990. When not teaching in the classroom, and even after retirement, Daley traveled extensively giving workshops and lectures at art centers, high schools, colleges, and universities. He has won several awards for teaching in the arts, including the College Art Association of America Distinguished Teaching of Art Award in 1991.
Daley became an active member of the crafts movement in Philadelphia, co-founding the Philadelphia Council of Professional Craftsmen. The Helen Drutt Gallery opened in Philadelphia in 1974 and gave Daley his first one man show there. Later, the gallery would become Daley's primary dealer. A self-proclaimed "mud man" and maker of "cosmic pots," Daley has focused throughout his career on the issues of the ceramic vessel, using drawings to explore his ideas. In 1994 the Renwick Gallery held a retrospective entitled, "William Daley: Ceramic Works and Drawings" which featured thirty years of his work. William Daley continued producing new work until his death in 2022.
Art organization; Dallas, Tex.
Art museum; Dallas, Tex. The Dallas Museum of Contemporary Art was founded by the Dallas Society for Contemporary Arts in 1956. In 1963 a merger of DMCA with the Dallas Museum of Fine Arts was approved, with the arrangement that the former DMCA collection would continue to be owned and maintained by DMCA.
Sculptor, educator; Austin, Tex.
Architect, author; New York, N.Y.
Art dealer; New York, N.Y. Opened Daniel Gallery Dec. 1913 at 2 W. 47th St.
Fidel Danieli (1938-1988) was an art critic and writer, art historian, educator, and artist based in Los Angeles, California. Danieli received his B.A. in 1960 and M.A. in 1965 from the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA). For nearly 22 years, he taught at the Los Angeles Valley College in Van Nuys. He also taught and lectured at the California State College in Los Angeles and San Fernando Valley State College in Northridge.
Danieli was perhaps best known for his work as an art critic and writer, notably his reviews for Artforum from 1963-1968 that brought national recognition to many modern Southern California artists, such as Billy Al Bengston, Bruce Nauman, Robert Graham, and George Herms. Danieli was a member of the editorial committee of the Los Angeles Institute of Contemporary Art's (LAICA) Journal, a contributing editor to Artweek, and writer and reviewer for ArtScene and Images and Issues.
Danieli's special interest was in the early Los Angeles Modernists and he received a National Endowment for the Humanities grant around 1974 to fund research on the subject. From 1974-1975, he was also an interviewer for the UCLA oral history project "Los Angeles Art Community." The project culminated in the 1974 exhibition Nine Senior Southern California Painters at LAICA.
Danieli was also a painter, sculptor, and collector. His extensive art collection included photographs, paintings, ceramics, and prints. He bequeathed the bulk of his collection to the Oakland Museum and the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art (MOCA), and a few private collectors who were friends. His art library was donated to Los Angeles Valley College.
He was briefly married to Edie Ellis though they later separated. He suffered ill health for several years and passed away in North Hollywood on March 26, 1988, at the age of 49.
Painter; New York, N.Y.
Andrew Michael Dasburg (1887-1979) was born in Paris, France, to German parents. After his father died and when he was five, Dasburg and his mother moved to New York City. In 1902 Dasburg started attending classes at the Art Students' League and studied with Kenyon Cox and Frank Du Mond. He also took night classes with Robert Henri. In 1907 he received a scholarship to the Art Students' League summer school in Woodstock, New York and spent three summers studying there in Birge Harrison's painting class. While in school he became friends with many young artists, including Morgan Russell and his future wife, Grace Mott Johnson.
 Grace Mott Johnson (1882-1967) was born in New York City. She began drawing when she was four years old, and when the family moved to a farm in 1900 she enjoyed sketching horses and other farm animals. At the age of 22 she left home to study at the Art Students' League with sculptors Gutzon Borglum and James Earle Fraser, and also attended Birge Harrison's painting class in Woodstock. Throughout her career she would sculpt animals from memory, and would often attend circuses and farms for inspiration.
 In 1909 Johnson and Dasburg went to Paris and joined the modernist circle of artists living there, including Morgan Russell, Jo Davidson, and Arthur Lee. During a trip to London that same year they were married. Johnson returned to the United States early the next year, but Dasburg stayed in Paris where he met Henri Matisse, Gertrude and Leo Stein, and became influenced by the paintings of Cezanne and Cubism. He returned to Woodstock, New York in August and he and Johnson became active members of the artist community. In 1911 their son Alfred was born. Both Dasburg and Johnson showed several works at the legendary Armory Show in 1913, and Dasburg also showed at the MacDowell Club in New York City, where he met the journalist and activist John Reed who later introduced him to Mabel Dodge (Luhan), a wealthy art patron and lifelong friend. In 1914 Dasburg met Alfred Stieglitz and became part of his avant-garde circle. Using what he had seen in Paris, Dasburg became one of the earliest American cubist artists, and also experimented with abstraction in his paintings.
 Dasburg and Johnson lived apart for most of their marriage. By 1917 they had separated and Dasburg began teaching painting in Woodstock and in New York City. In 1918 he was invited to Taos, New Mexico by Mabel Dodge, and returning in 1919, Johnson joined him there for a period of time. Also in 1919, Dasburg was one of the founding members of the Woodstock Artists Association with John F. Carlson, Frank Swift Chase, Carl Eric Lindin, and Henry Lee McFee. In 1922 Dasburg and Johnson divorced, and also at that time he began living most of the year in Santa Fe with Ida Rauh, spending the rest of the year in Woodstock and New York City. Dasburg became an active member of the Santa Fe and the Taos art colonies, befriending many artists and writers living in these communities, and remaining close friends with Mabel Dodge Luhan. Here he moved away from abstraction, and used the southwestern landscape as the inspiration for his paintings.
 In 1928 he married Nancy Lane. When that marriage ended in 1932, he moved permanently to Taos, and with his third wife, Marina Wister, built a home and studio there. Dasburg periodically taught art privately and at the University of New Mexico. In 1937 he was diagnosed with Addison's disease, which left him unable to paint again until 1946. In 1945 he and his wife Marina separated. Dasburg was recognized for his career as an artist in a circulating retrospective organized by the American Federation of Arts in 1959. He also had retrospectives in Taos in 1966 and 1978. His artwork influence several generations of artists, especially in the southwest, and he continued creating art until his death in 1979 at the age of 92.
 Grace Mott Johnson lived in the Johnson family home in Yonkers, New York during the 1920s and later moved to Pleasantville, New York. In 1924 she went to Egypt to study ancient Egyptian sculpture. During the 1930s she became a civil rights activist. She produced very little art during the last twenty years of her life.
Founded 1899.
Don Raymond David (1906-2006) and Andrée Golbin (1923-2006) were husband and wife artists based in New York, NY.
Andrée Golbin was a painter, graphic artist, and illustrator and was born in Germany to her parents Owsey Golbin and Elsa Rimathe, before immigrating to the United States when she was sixteen. She graduated from the Parsons School of Design in 1943 and served as director for Mademoiselle magazine in the early 1950s. Golbin created artwork for many different clients, including several dance companies, Henri Bendel, and American Cyanamid. Golbin was based in New York City and was a member of the Artists Equity Association of New York, the American Newspaper Guild, which she withdrew from in 1948, and the Museum of Modern Art in New York. In her later years, Golbin taught at the Parsons School of Design.
Don Raymond David was a painter and instructor and was born in Springbrook, Yamhill County, Oregon. In 1927, David began studying at Fresno State College with Alexandra Bradshaw and by the late 1930s was in Los Angeles where he studied with Barse Miller and attended the Chouinard Art Institute and the Art Center School. In the late 1950s, he relocated to New York where he attended the Hans Hofmann School and had frequent solo shows at the Camino Gallery through the 1960s to early 1970s. David was an instructor at the Newark School of Fine and Industrial Arts in New Jersey and continued as a teacher beside his wife at the New York Parsons School of Design. He was a member of the California Watercolor Society and the National Society of Art Directors.
Golbin and David died in 2006 in Newburg, Yamhill County, Oregon at the ages of eighty-three and ninety-nine.
Painter; California.
Jaime Davidovich (1936-2016) was a conceptual and performance artist in New York, N.Y.
Davidovich was born in Buenos Aires, Argentina. As a child, he became ill with rheumatic fever and his parents gave him art materials with which to entertain himself during his months of illness. Davidovich studied at National College in Buenos Aires and graduated from the University of Uruguay in 1961. After graduation, he began teaching in Bahía Blanca, Argentina, and subsequently became the art superintendent at the visual arts school. In 1963 he was given the opportunity to travel to New York by the DiTella Foundation in Buenos Aires, after a grant to study in France fell through at the last minute. In New York he attended the School of Visual Arts and eventually began working as a graphic designer for Random House publishers.
In 1965, Davidovich and his wife, artist Judith Henry, moved to Cleveland, Ohio, where he worked as a graphic designer and began working with video. His first video installation was exhibited at the Akron Art Institute in 1972. Davidovich's fascination with video and television continued when he moved back to New York City and created the nonprofit organization, Artists Television Network (ATN). The network produced television shows for Manhattan's public access channel using the name SoHo Television. Davidovich's avant-garde variety show, The Live! Show, was the organization's most well-known production. Davidovich hosted the show as the character Dr. Videovich, and invited guests including Laurie Anderson, Eric Bogosian, and other creatives.
In 1976, Davidovich and Henry established Wooster Enterprises, a design studio and retail outlet that created conceptual stationary in affiliation with the Fluxus movement. The company closed in 1979, but it's most popular stationary continued to be produced and sold at the Museum of Modern Art.
James Edward Davis (1901-1974) was a painter, photographer, and filmmaker who worked primarily in New Jersey. Born in Clarksburg, West Virginia, Davis specialized in the abstract and surrealist styles and his artwork was heavily inspired by the zeitgeist of the 1920s. He graduated from Princeton University in 1923 and studied painting and sculpture in France with Andre Lhote for three years. Davis taught at multiple places during his career including Lawrenceville School (1933-1936), Princeton (1936-1942), and the Moholy-Nagy Institute of Design (1947). Davis is also known for his experimental abstract films that use mobile designs of transparent plastics and controlled illumination. His paintings have been shown at the Museum of Modern Art, the Addison gallery, and the Princeton and Yale University Art Museums. He died in Princeton, New Jersey at the Princeton Medical Center at the age of 73 on September 20, 1974.
Jean Davidson (1923-2003) was an abstract painter active in New York City and Woodstock, New York. She was known for her abstract minimalist paintings that used very pale color.
Yasuo Kuniyoshi (1889-1953) was a Japanese American painter, printmaker and photographer based in New York, N.Y.
Davidson was a member of the Philadelphia bar.
Charles C. Dawson (1889-1981) was an African American painter, printmaker, and illustrator in Chicago, Illinois. He studied at the Tuskegee Institute, the Art Students League of New York, and at the Art Institute of Chicago and chronicled experiences as an art student in his unpublished autobiography. From 1919 to 1922 he worked for Chicago Engravers before leaving the firm to work as a freelance artist. Dawson also curated museum exhibitions to promote the work of other African American artists. He worked as the curator of the Museum of Negro Art and Culture and the George Washington Carver Museum from 1944 to 1951. In 1933 Dawson published a children's book, ABCs of Great Negroes which featured linoleum prints of 26 major figures in Black history.
Abstract painter (Paris and New York). Born in Salonika, Greece, Jean de Botton studied at the École des beaux-arts and at the Sorbonne. For years, he maintained homes in Paris and in New York, but in 1945 he established his main residence in New York, and in 1977 he became a U.S. citizen.
Janet deCoux was born on October 5, 1904 in Niles, Michigan, the youngest of the five children of Bertha Wright deCoux and Rev. Charles John deCoux, an Episcopal clergyman. The family moved to Grand Rapids in 1908 and four years later to a farm in Gibsonia, outside Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
deCoux studied with Joseph Bailey Ellis at the Carnegie Institute of Technology from 1925 to 1927. She then apprenticed in the New York studio of C. Paul Jennewein for fifteen months, followed by a year at the Gorham Bronze Division learning architectural modeling. She also worked with Aristide Cianfarani in Providence, and for Alvin Meyer in Chicago. While serving her apprenticeships, she attended night school at the New York School of Industrial Arts, the Rhode Island School of Design, and the Art Institute of Chicago. deCoux was then employed in James Earle Fraser's studio where she had previously assisted Gozo Kawamura.
In 1932 deCoux met Eliza Miller in the sculpture department of Carnegie Tech, beginning a sixty-year relationship in which they shared a shop and adjoining studios in Gibsonia, Pennsylvania. For several months in 1935, deCoux traveled to Germany, Italy, and Switzerland, where she joined her friend Aly Moore, the wife of sculptor Bruce Moore. She first met longtime friend Father Hughson on a ship returning to the United States from Europe.
A Guggenheim Fellowship awarded to deCoux in 1938 was renewed for a second year. In 1943, she became resident instructor at Cranbrook Academy of Art.
Janet deCoux died in December 1999.
Adolf Dehn (1895-1968) was well-known for his drawings, lithographs and watercolors which satirically chronicled the social and political milieu of his times, as well as poetic landscapes, many of which depicted the rolling hills and farmlands of his native Midwest. Although he worked mostly in New York, Dehn also spent substantial time traveling and working in Europe, the Middle East, South America, and the American mid-west.
Dehn was born on a farm in Waterville, Minnesota on November 22, 1895, he began his formal art education in 1914 at the Minneapolis School of Art (currently known as the Minneapolis College of Art and Design). As a student, his drawings were featured in the school's humor journal, The Minne-Ha-Ha and by 1917 he had published his first drawing in one of his favorite political journals, The Masses. Later that year he and fellow Minneapolis School of Art student Wanda Gág were among a select group of art students nationwide who won scholarships to the Art Students League of New York. After only eight months in New York, however, Dehn was drafted into the Army to serve in the final months of World War I, but he proclaimed himself as a conscientious objector and was sent to Camp Wadsworth in South Carolina for several months.
Dehn returned to New York, where his friend and mentor Boardman Robinson introduced him to lithography through the master printer George Miller and brought him to the Weyhe Gallery to meet Carl Zigrosser, an avid supporter of American printmakers. However, he soon left New York for Europe in September 1921 where he spent most of the following eight years. There he traveled with his sketchbooks to the cafes and opera houses of Berlin, Paris, and Vienna, as well as on hiking trips in the Alps. He became friends with the poet E.E. Cummings, Scofield Thayer, editor of The Dial, who published many of his drawings, and met the German artist, George Grosz, whose work he so admired. In addition to The Dial, his satirical drawings of jazz-age entertainments and European cafe life also appeared in , The Liberator, Jugend, Vanity Fair, and Simplicissimus. Finally during his stint in Europe, Dehn met and married the Russian dancer Mura Tsiperovitch. They were married in Vienna in 1926, but divorced sometime in the early 1930s.
Unfortunately Dehn's return to the United States coincided with the Great Depression of 1929 and sales of his work were slim. However in the 1930s, The New Yorker and Vogue began to publish his work. He continued to work in lithography and returned to Paris to work at the Atelier Desjobert, the print studio with whom he worked most closely throughout his life. In the late 1930s, Dehn began working in watercolors, mostly rural landscapes, and had a one man show of works in his new medium at Weyhe Gallery in 1938. In 1939 Dehn traveled through the Southwest and Mexico on his first Guggenheim Fellowship (he was awarded his second in 1951).
By the 1940s Dehn was an active member of both the American Artists Group and Associated American Artists; both organizations sought to popularize contemporary American Art, primarily through reproductions of fine art prints and commercial use of artists' designs on greeting card, calendars, and even wall paper. Appreciation for his lithographs and watercolors grew, and along with it his recognition. He also taught art classes a few summers; in the late 1930s at Stephens College, Columbia, Missouri where his friend Albert Janner-Christ was head of the art department and in the early 1940s at the Colorado Springs Fine Arts Center, where friend and mentor Boardman Robinson was the director. In 1955 he published Watercolor, Gouache, and Casein Painting, a manual on technique. Throughout the rest of his life he continued to travel, not only returning to Europe, but also visiting Afganistan, Cuba, Haiti, and a trip to Venuzuala on assignment from Standard Oil to document the oil industry there. On many of his later trips, he was accompanied by his wife, fellow artist, Virginia Engleman Dehn, whom he had married in November 1947.
Near the end of his long career, Dehn was elected in 1961 to the National Academy of Design as a full academician. He was later elected to the National Academy of Arts and Letters. After his death in 1968, his wife Virginia worked with the University of Missouri Press on the catalog Adolf Dehn Drawings (Columbia: University of Missouri, 1971).
Dorothy Dehner was an abstract sculptor of the New York school who was also an accomplished painter, printmaker, author, and educator.
Dehner was born in Cleveland, Ohio in 1901. Her father died when she was about ten and the family moved to Pasadena, California in 1915. After the death of her mother and sister, she was raised by her mother's sister, Aunt Florence. Dehner was exposed to art as a child, receiving instruction in drawing and painting. She studied drama for a year at UCLA in 1922-1923 before moving to New York with the intention of pursuing a theatrical career. In 1925, she traveled alone to Europe, where she visited Italy, Switzerland, and France and where she began to draw seriously.
Upon her return to New York, Dehner enrolled in the Art Students League intending to study sculpture, but, uninspired by the work of William Zorach's sculpture class, ended up studying drawing with Kimon Nicolaides instead. In 1926, she met fellow artist David Smith in the rooming house they shared. At her suggestion, he too enrolled in the Art Students League. In 1927, they were married.
At the League, Dehner and Smith studied with the modernist painter, Jan Matulka, and befriended Weber and Thomas Furlong, through whom they met the Russian painter and theoretician, John Graham. Graham introduced them to the avant-garde art world and had a profound influence on Dehner and Smith and their work. Other young artists they befriended at this time included Adolph Gottlieb, Mark Rothko, and Edgar and Lucille Corcos Levy. In 1929, after a visit to the Furlong's summer home in upstate New York, Dehner and Smith bought a farm in Bolton Landing, which became their permanent home in 1940 and was later named Terminal Iron Works. They spent eight months in the Virgin Islands, in 1931-1932, where Dehner painted abstract still lifes of shells and marine life. In the fall of 1935, they traveled to Europe, where they met up with Graham in Paris, spent five months in Greece, and toured the Soviet Union, with other stops along the way.
During her years at Bolton Landing (from 1940 to 1950), Dehner progressed in her work, producing a series of paintings titled Life on the Farm and embarking upon a series of abstract geometric drawings in ink and watercolor. In 1943, she had a joint exhibition with Smith at the Albany Institute of History and Art. Three years later, she participated in the annual exhibition of Audubon Artists and was awarded a first prize for drawing, and in 1948, she had her first one-woman show at Skidmore College.
Dehner left Bolton Landing in 1950 (she was divorced from Smith two years later) and returned to school, earning her degree from Skidmore College in 1952. She moved back to New York City, and supported herself over the next several years by teaching at various schools, including the Barnard School for Girls. She had her first solo exhibition in the city at the Rose Fried Gallery in 1952, and studied engraving at Stanley William Hayter's Atelier 17. At this point, Dehner started making sculpture, first experimenting in wax and then casting her wax sculptures in bronze. In 1955, she began working at the Sculpture Center, and from this point on, focused mainly on sculpture with occasional forays in drawing and printmaking. In addition to works in bronze, she went on to create sculptures in wood (during the 1970s) and steel (during the 1980s).
In 1955, Dehner married the New York publisher, Ferdinand Mann. That same year, she joined the Willard Gallery, run by Marian Willard. She had her first exhibition of drawings there in 1955 (which led to a solo exhibition at the Art Institute of Chicago) and her first sculpture show there in 1957. Dehner continued to show at the Willard Gallery regularly until 1976. Over the next several decades, Dehner's work was frequently exhibited in solo and groups exhibitions at museums and galleries across the country, and was acquired for both public and private collections.
In addition to her art work, Dehner was also a published poet and writer. She wrote the foreword to the 1971 re-issue of John Graham's System and Dialectics of Art, and an essay on David Smith's "Medals for Dishonor," which was published in Art Journal in 1977. Two of her poems, "Past Tense" and "Two Lines," appeared in the journal Tracks in 1977.
Dehner continued to work into her nineties, and passed away in 1994.
Producer; Boca Raton, Fla.
Beauford Delaney (1901-1979) was an African American painter known for his association with the Harlem Renaissance and his works in abstract expressionism after his move to Paris in 1953. Charles Nagel, Jr. (1899-1922) was an architect and museum director.
Josephine Del Deo is a writer and the wife of painter and former vice-president of the Fine Arts Work Center, Salvatore Del Deo.
Painter, educator; New York, N.Y. Painter of child-like, fantastic figures. Taught at Columbia University and Cooper Union.
Helen DeMott (1920-1997) was a New York City based painter and poet and well-known East Village community activist.
In the 1940s, DeMott attended the National Academy of Design and Art Students League. In the late 1960s, DeMott began focusing her work on the scientific study of waves, specifically the structure of water wave surfaces, a theme that remained in her work for the rest of her career. In 1974-1975, DeMott completed two building murals of water wave structures in New York City: Wave Spill, located at 155 First Avenue and 10th Street; and River Wave, at 509 Amsterdam Avenue. She had a solo exhibition at the Green Mountain Gallery in 1969, and exhibited at the ground-breaking alternative space, 112 Workshop/112 Greene Street in 1979. DeMott was received a number of grants and awards throughout her career including National Community Arts Competition winner in 1974, a grant from the New York State Council on the Arts (CAPS) in 1976, a National Endowment for the Arts Fellowship in 1978, and a Gottleib Foundation grant in 1983. She passed away in 1997.
Painter; Lancaster, Pennsylvania.
Dena (1910-1987) was a photographer from New York, N.Y. Full name Dinah Rubinstein.
Author; London, England. Specialist in decorative arts.
Garabed Der Hohannesian (1908-1992) was a painter in Boston, Mass.
Sculptor (New York City).
Painter; Chicago, Ill.
Michael De Vivo is a collector from Bedford Hills, New York.
Howard Devree was an art critic for THE NEW YORK TIMES.
Art dealer and writer, Martin Diamond (b. 1924) owned Martin Diamond Fine Arts, Inc. with his wife, Harriette. The gallery was established in January 1976 and operated until 1986, specializing in pre-world War II American modern and Abstract Art. It then became a private gallery operating until 1996, when the couple retired. Martin Diamond was particularly interested in Transcendental Art, an area of Abstract Art focused on the artwork's spiritual qualities. His writings include Who Were They? My Personal Contact with 35 American Modernists Your Art Hisory Course Never Mentioned (1995) and his memoirs of his years as a New York City art dealer (1975-1985). Martin and Harriette Diamond presently reside in New Rochelle, New York. Artists represented by the gallery included Vaclav Vytlacil, Blanche Lazzell, and Marguerite and William Zorach.
Edwin Walter Dickinson (1891-1978) was a painter in Wellfleet, Massachusetts. Dickinson studied with William Merritt Chase at the Art Students League and was a member of Federation of Modern Painters and Sculptors.
Museum director and author (San Luis Obispo, Calif.)
Tina Dickey (1954- ) is an author and artist who wrote and contributed to numerous books, exhibition catalogs and other projects on abstract expressionist painter Hans Hofmann and his students. Notably she studied painting with former Hofmann students and was editor of the Hans Hofmann Catalogue Raisonee from 1997-2006, and served as chief research consultant for the PBS documentary Hans Hofmann: Artist/Teacher, Teacher/Artist (2002).
Painter; New York City.
Fiber artist Dominic Di Mare was born in San Francisco, California, in 1932. He grew up working on his father's fishing boat and was artistically influenced by the process of making rope and fishing lines. After finishing high school, Di Mare attended the California College of Arts and Crafts in Oakland and later received his art teaching certification at San Francisco State University. In 1960, Di Mare married Margaret Nef, bought his first loom, and began teaching at Francisco Junior High School. He and his wife had three children together, Marcello, Lorenzo, and Livia. A highly respected teacher, Di Mare taught at Francisco Junior High until 1976, when he left to work in his studio full-time.
A self taught fiber artist, Di Mare has explored, throughout his career, the imagery of the ocean and the shore. He works with fiber, wood, handmade paper, and small found objects to create unique sculptures. Since his first one person show at The Yarn Depot in 1963, Di Mare has participated in numerous national and international exhibitions and has been represented by the Anneberg Gallery and Braunstein Gallery in San Francisco, Florence Duhl Gallery in New York, and most recently the Susan Cummins Gallery in Mill Valley, California. In 1998 the Palo Alto Art Center curated "Dominic Di Mare: A Retrospective," which traveled throughout the country. In 1999 Di Mare received the American Crafts Council Gold Medal Award.
Abigail Camp Dimon was secretary of the Munson-Williams-Proctor Institute.
Humberto Dionisio was born in Cuba in 1950. During the 1970s he became a noted poster artist and completed his studies in Graphic Design at the Consejo Nacional de Cultura in Cuba in 1975. He arrived in Miami, Florida, via the Mariel boat lift in 1980, and achieved success in Miami as a painter from the mid to late 1980s. He died in March 1987 at the age of thirty-six.
Mark di Suvero was born September 18, 1933, in Shanghai, China, the son of Matilde Millo di Suvero and Victor E. di Suvero, an Italian diplomat. He was one of four children: Victor M., the eldest, Marie Louise, Mark, and the youngest son Henry. With the outbreak of World War II, the family immigrated to San Francisco, California, in 1941.
Mark di Suvero studied fine arts and philosophy at the San Francisco City College from 1953 to 1954, and attended the University of California, Santa Barbara, from 1954-1955, where he began creating sculpture. In 1956, he received a B.A. in Philosophy from the University of California, Berkeley. The following year, di Suvero moved to New York City to establish a career as a sculptor.
Shortly before his first solo exhibition at the Green Gallery in 1960, di Suvero suffered severe spinal injuries when he was pinned against an elevator shaft in a construction accident. Initially confined to a wheelchair for two years, di Suvero persevered in overcoming his injuries and continuing his work.
In protest of the Vietnam War, di Suvero left the United States in 1971, and exhibited his sculpture in Holland and Germany. A year later, he established a painting and drawing studio in Venice, where he also taught at the Università Internazionale dell'Arte, and, in 1973, he moved to France. Also during this time, di Suvero married Maria Teresa Capparotta, an architect, whom he later divorced.
The Whitney Museum of American Art honored Mark di Suvero in 1975 with the first retrospective and first American city-wide exhibition of his work, in New York City. At this time, di Suvero began working with a team in assembling his sculpture, first with Lowell McKegney, and later joined by his nephews Enrico and Matteo Martignoni.
In 1977, di Suvero founded the Athena Foundation to award grants to artists. In 1986, in conjunction with the Athena Foundation and with Enrico Martignoni, he created the Socrates Sculpture Park in Long Island City, New York, an outdoor space where sculptors are invited to create and exhibit their work. With Marcel Evrard in 1988, di Suvero created a foundation entitled La Vie des Formes (The Life of Forms) in the shipyards at Chalon-sur-Saône, France. Based upon the model of Socrates Sculpture Park, this organization hosted artists in studio and exhibition spaces at the shipyard and on di Suvero's converted canal barge Rêve des Signes, that was moored alongside.
Included in most major international gallery collections, Mark di Suvero's art work has also been the focus of major solo exhibitions including two at Storm King, and international city-wide exhibitions in Duisberg and Stuttgart in Germany, Chalon-sur-Saône, Paris, Valence, and Nice in France, and Valencia in Spain. During the summer of 1995, di Suvero was honored with a major installation of seven pieces along the Grand Canal to coincide with the Venice Biennale's 100th anniversary.
In 1993, Mark di Suvero married Kate Levin, Ph.D., a professor at the City University of New York and Commissioner of the New York Department of Cultural Affairs. Di Suvero and Levin have a daughter named Veri. At present, di Suvero maintains studios in Petaluma, California, Long Island City, New York, and Chalon-sur-Saône, France.
Ivan Dmitri/Levon West (1900-1968) was a printmaker and photographer. Levon West, Dmitri's given name, which he changed to Ivan Dmitri at the time he changed careers from printmaking to photography.
Lois Dodd (1927- ) is an observational painter, educator, activist, and co-founder of the Tanager Gallery. She is active in New York City and Maine.
Lois Dodd was born in 1927 in Montclair, New Jersey. Beginning in 1945, Dodd commuted from Montclair to New York City to attend The Cooper Union, from which she graduated in 1948. She married fellow student and sculptor William King with whom she had one child, Eli. King and Dodd, among others, established the Tanager Gallery in 1952.
Dodd worked for various organizations in New York City promoting affordable housing for artists, especially the renewal of Cooper Square. She continues to exhibit her paintings at both individual and group exhibitions.
John M. Donaldson (1854-1941) was an architect based in Detroit, Michigan. Donaldson was a friend of painter Gari Melchers. Donaldson's son Bruce (d. 1940) was chairman of the Art History Department at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor.
The donor, Susan Colt Doolittle (1937-), a lawyer in Keene Valley, N.Y., is Peggy Bacon's cousin. Charles and Amy Colt are Doolittle's parents.
Dorothy Weiss founded the Dorothy Weiss Gallery in 1984. From 1977 Weiss had partnered with Sue Meyer and Virginia Breier in Meyer Breier Weiss Contemporary Crafts, Inc. She opened her new gallery in what was to be its permanent location at 256 Sutter Street in downtown San Francisco.
The Dorothy Weiss Gallery was renowned in San Francisco for the quality of its crafts program and the artists it represented. Weiss focused on contemporary ceramic and glass sculpture with an emphasis on non-functional, sculptural work. She also showed some paintings, drawings and monotypes, and her interests in this area expanded, particularly in the mid-1990s, when she began exhibiting works by artists such as Daniel Brice, in addition to showing drawings by artists generally known for their sculpture.
Weiss represented many of the country's most prominent and well-respected artists working in glass, including Hank Murta Adams, Dale Chihuly, Richard Marquis, William Morris, Jay Musler, Clifford Rainey, Italo Scanga, Therman Statom, and James Watkins. Glass exhibitions at the gallery included site-specific installations by artists such as Statom, Adams, and Rainey.
The gallery was also an important venue for contemporary ceramists such as Rudy Autio, Annette Corcoran, Ruth Duckworth, Michael Lucero, Beverly Mayeri, and Robert Turner. Monthly exhibitions were held on the Third floor with the Fourth floor gallery space being reserved for a variety of work by gallery artists. "Teapot Invitationals," and exhibitions of "new glass" featuring teapots and glass sculpture by a variety of artists were held regularly at the gallery.
Weiss was an active participant in the wider art community, hosting collector's groups from around the country and guests during conferences, such as a special Glass Invitational in conjunction with the Glass Art Society Conference in March 1994. As a member of the San Francisco Art Dealers Association (SFADA), Weiss participated in First Thursday, holding opening receptions to new exhibitions on the first Thursday of every month and often accompanying them with artists' talks. She also participated in an annual Introductions show along with other SFADA members, representing younger, emerging artists in the Bay Area and nationwide. In addition, Weiss assisted the American Craft Museum in developing its exhibition programs, and was a Collectors Circle Affiliate for the American Craft Council.
Dorothy Weiss closed the gallery in 2000, retiring at the age of eighty. On October 4 of that year the Museum of Craft and Folk Art in San Francisco opened A Tribute to Dorothy Weiss, an exhibition selected from her own collection.
Art historian; Washington, D.C.
Aaron Douglas (1899-1979) was an African American painter, muralist, and illustrator in Nashville, Tennessee. He is commonly regarded as a central figure in the Harlem Renaissance. In 1937 Charles S. Johnson, the first African American president of Fisk University, invited Douglas to develop the university's art department. He served as the department head until his retirement in 1966.
Painter; Dallas, Tex.
Art society; New York, N.Y.
Sculptor, wood carver; Cambridge, Mass. Born in Cambridge to Bavarian immigrant parents. In 1907, he was apprenticed to Johann Kirchmayer at W. F. Ross Company, becoming foreman of the woodcarving and modeling shop upon Kirchmayer's retirement in 1921. During the 1920s and 1930s, Dreselly worked, through the Ross Company, on many large church projects in New York, Washington, D.C., Pittsburgh, and Boston. Ancangelo Cascieri was Dreselly's apprentice. In 1943, Dreselly moved to the Schwamb Company and from 1948 until his retirement in 1967, he was head of carving and modeling at Irving & Casson.
Jerry Dreva (1945-1997) was a performance artist, writer, activist, and teacher based in Milwaukee, Wisconsin and Los Angeles, California. Dreva was a leader in the mail art movement during the 1970s and 1980s. He was a founding member (together with Robert J. Lambert) of Les Petites Bon-Bons, a flamboyantly attired musical group that never played a single concert. In fact, they never so much as picked up an instrument. Instead they dressed as glitter rock musicians of the era (1970's) and were frequently featured in newspapers and magazines.
Werner Drewes (1899-1985) was an abstract painter and printmaker based in Reston, Virginia.
Painter, printmaker and designer Werner Drewes (1899-1985) was born in Canig, Germany, and immigrated to the United States in 1930. A student of the Bauhaus, and a prolific artist and teacher, Drewes worked with many kinds of media and produced numerous woodcuts, etchings, oils, watercolors, drawings and collages over the course of his life.
Drewes served for two years on Germany's Western Front during World War 1, before studying at the Bauhaus, Weimar, from 1921-1922. He then traveled throughout Europe, Asia and North and South America with his wife Margaret before returning to Germany in 1927 and enrolling at the Bauhaus, Dessau. During his time there Drewes forged his artistic ideas from the radical influences of renowned architects and artists including Lyonel Feininger, Johannes Itten, Wassily Kandinsky, Paul Klee, and Oscar Schlemmer, and learned the Bauhaus teaching approach that would serve him throughout his career. In 1930 Drewes, Margaret, and their 2 young sons emigrated to the United States and settled in New York City where Drewes attended the Art Students League. From 1935-1936 he taught drawing and printmaking at the Brooklyn Museum School as an employee of the Works Progress Administration Federal Art Project (WPA FAP). In 1936 he became a founding member of American Abstract Artists and the following year joined the American Artists' Congress and became an American citizen. From 1937-1940 he taught painting and printmaking at Columbia University.
In the early 1940s Drewes taught at the Master Institute in Riverside Museum, New York City, and worked as a technical supervisor for the Graphic Art Division of the FAP. From 1944-1945 he worked at Stanley William Hayter's Atelier 17 improving his intaglio technique and then teaching design, printmaking and photography at Brooklyn College. In 1946 he taught design at the Institute of Design in Chicago before being appointed Professor of Design at the School of Fine Arts of Washington University in Saint Louis, where he continued to teach until his retirement in 1965.
Following Margaret's death in 1959, Drewes married jewelry designer and fellow professor of Washington University, Mary (Maria) Louise Lischer in 1960. On Drewes' retirement he and Maria moved to Pennsylvania where he continued to paint, focusing primarily on still lifes and landscapes. He moved to Washington in 1972 and published his American Indians portfolio, before finally setting in Reston, Virginia, where the Rose Catalog of his prints was published and where he lived as a working and exhibiting artist until his death in 1985.
In October 1984 a comprehensive retrospective, Sixty-Five Years of Printmaking, was held at the then named Smithsonian's National Museum of American Art. Drewes' work can be found in the collections of the Brooklyn Museum, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Museum of Modern Art, National Gallery of Art, New York Public Library, Smithsonian American Art Museum, and the Whitney Museum of American Art.
Virginia Drury was an art dealer and gallery owner in Cambridge, Mass.
Painter and art critic Guy Pène Du Bois (1884-1958) lived and worked in New York City, New York and was known for his realist paintings, essays, and art reviews.
Pène Du Bois was born in Brooklyn, New York to the art critic Henri Pène Du Bois and his wife Laura. After he showed an early interest in art, his' family supported his decision to enroll in William Merritt Chase's New York School of Art at the age of 15. There, Pène Du Bois trained with the realist painters Robert Henri and Kenneth Hayes Miller along with fellow students George Bellows, Edward Hopper, and Rockwell Kent. In 1905, he traveled to Paris and studied briefly with the artist Thèophile Steinlen, but returned to New York the following year after the death of his father. To help support his family, he found work as an illustrator and cartoonist for the New York American, and was promoted to the position of art critic for the newspaper in 1909.
In 1911, Pène Du Bois married his wife, Florence Duncan, and became an assistant writer for the New York Tribune under Royal Cortissoz (1913). Pène Du Bois also wrote art reviews for the New York Post (1916-1918), and was a writer and later editor of Arts and Decoration (1913-1915, 1917-1921). During these years, Pène Du Bois also began to establish a career as a realist painter of note. His work was included in the 1913 Armory Show, after which he signed on as a member of the Kraushaar Gallery stable. Throughout the 1910s, Pène Du Bois exhibited in numerous galleries and museums, and held his first one-man show in 1918 at the Whitney Studio Club.
From 1920 to 1924, Pène Du Bois taught at the Art Students League, and spent the latter part of the 1920s in France with his family. After seven years, he moved his family back to Connecticut and opened the Guy Pène Du Bois School of Art in Stonington, Connecticut. Throughout the 1930s, Pène Du Bois continued painting and received commissions to design federal murals in upstate New York (1937) and Boston (1942). In 1940, Pène Du Bois published his autobiography, Artists Say the Silliest Things. After the death of his wife in 1950, Pène Du Bois lived and traveled with his daughter's family and died in her home in Boston in 1958.
Painter and sculptor. Born in France, Duchamp exhibited at the Armory Show in 1913 and came to the U.S. in 1915, staying with art patrons Walter and Louise Arensburg. During the First World War, he worked with the Dada group in New York. Duchamp became a U.S. citizen in 1955.
Lithographer, painter, and educator (Baton Rouge, La.)
Landscape and portrait painter, art dealer; New York, N.Y. Born Albert Di Giovanni in Naples, Italy. Came to the U.S. in 1894, first to St. Paul, Minnesota, moving ca. 1902 to New York City. Later gave up painting and opened up an art gallery. Changed his name in 1926. Died in Naples, Italy.
Lithographer; Philadelphia, Pa.
Art dealers; New York, N.Y.
Painter, etcher, and one of the most influential American art instructors of the nineteenth century, Frank Duveneck was born Frank Decker to German immigrants Bernard and Katherine Decker on October 9, 1848 in Covington, Kentucky. He acquired the name Duveneck from his stepfather after his father's death and mother's remarriage. Family and friends recognized his artistic talents early on and he was apprenticed to local German artisans who decorated churches through most of the 1860s. In 1870 he traveled to Munich to study at the prestigious Konigliche Akademie (Royal Academy), where he was quickly promoted to life classes and the painting class of Wilhelm von Diez. He quickly earned a reputation as the leading American artist in the Academy. Duveneck was only 24 in 1872 when painted one of his most well-known paintings, Whistling Boy.
Due to dwindling funds and a cholera epidemic in Europe, Duveneck returned to the United States in 1873 and began teaching at the Ohio Mechanics Institute in Cincinnati the following year, where John H. Twachtman was among his students. An 1875 exhibition of his paintings at the Boston Art Club met with critical and public acclaim. He also attracted the attention of William Morris Hunt, novelist Henry James, and his future wife, Elizabeth Boott, who was one among those who deeply admired his work, although the pair were not to meet for another three years. After his return to Munich later that year, he became part of a tightly knit group of other American artists including Frank Currier, William Merritt Chase, and Walter Shirlaw. All four artists exhibited their work in the United States in such venues as the National Academy of Design's annual exhibition of 1877, and the first exhibition of the Society of American Artists in 1878, which may have contributed to the increased popularity of the Royal Academy in Munich as a destination for young American artists. As enrollment rose, classes became overcrowded and Duveneck began teaching in Munich. A group of younger students, including John Alexander, and John H. Twachtman, who had followed the artist from Cincinnati to Munich, became known as the "Duveneck Boys." He also had acquired a private female student, Elizabeth Boott, who had traveled to Munich to study with him.
The painter Elizabeth Boott, known primarily as "Lizzie," was born in Cambridge, Massachusetts on April 13, 1846 and was raised by her widowed father, the prominent Bostonian Francis Boott. The pair moved to Florence, Italy, when Lizzie was just a year old, after the death of her mother and brother from tuberculosis. Similar to Duveneck, Lizzie Boott's talent for drawing was recognized and encouraged at an early age. Early drawings preserved by her father consist of portraits of their well-known Anglo-American friends including Robert Browning, Nathanial Hawthorne, and Henry Higginson, founder of the Boston Symphony Orchestra. The Bootts briefly returned to Boston in 1865, at which time Lizzie met the novelist Henry James, who became a close life-long friend of both her and her father. Through James, she learned of the artist William Morris Hunt, and entered his class in Boston for women artists. She established close friendships with several of the women whom she met through Hunt's class, and they traveled together through Italy and Spain, took classes with the French artist Thomas Couture, and studied at the Académie Julian in Paris. They also made up the group of female students that formed a class of women artists taught by Duveneck, whom Lizzie had persuaded to teach in Florence in 1879. Duveneck, along with a band of "Duveneck Boys" embarked upon a two year stay in Florence and Venice.
During this period in Italy, Duveneck experimented with with hard ground etchings, creating Venetian scenes similar to those produced by James McNeil Whistler. His painting changed as he focused more on landscapes executed in a ligher, more highly keyed palette, perhaps influenced by Lizzie Boott, who painted vibrant watercolor Italian landscapes during this period and with whom he began an extended courtship in 1880. Although Francis Boott admired Duveneck's work and had acquired one his portraits during the artist's successful 1875 exhibition at the Boston Arts Club, neither he nor family friends approved of the bohemian artist as a husband for his accomplished patrician daughter. However the pair eventually married in March 1886, and had a son, Francis Boott Duveneck that December. Tragically, Lizzie Boott died of pneumonia on March 22, 1888. Although he was not a sculptor, one of Duvenecks' most admired works is the effigy that he created with the help of sculptor Clement J. Barnhorn, for his wife's tomb in Florence, casts of which may be viewed at the Museum of Fine Arts and the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
After his wife's death Duveneck returned to America, spending most of his time in his Cincinnati studio and teaching painting classes at the Cincinnati Art Museum. At the 1915 Panama-Pacific International Exposition, two galleries at the San Francisco Palace of Fine Arts, were allotted to Duveneck for a retrospective of his work. The jury awarded him a gold medal of honor to commemorate his contributions to American Art. Frank Duveneck died in Cincinnati on January 3, 1919.
Painter and teacher; Munich, Germany and Cincinnati, Ohio. Married his student, Elizabeth Boott, 1886. Following her death in 1888, Duveneck returned to the United States to teach at the Cincinnati Art Academy.
The Throops were a family of artists from central New York state.
Sculptor, Manassas, Virginia. John Joseph Earley was a pioneer in the use of architectural concrete. Died 1945.
Waterolorist; Old Lyme, Conn.
Ceramicist and glass sculptor; Cleveland, Ohio.
Printmaker; collagist, Great Neck, N.Y. Member of American Abstract Artists Group. Studied at Art Students League and other institutions with Stuart Davis and Harry Wickey.
Doug Edge (1942- ) is a conceptual sculptor, painter, and photographer in Los Angeles, California. Edge was a member of the acrylic movement in the late 1960s. He was an original faculty member at the California Institute of the Arts (Cal Arts) from 1969 to 1971, and taught at the University of California, Santa Barbara from 1974 to 1985.
Edge began showing his work in the late 1960s and continues to produce and exhibit work. He has shown at Mizuno, Cirrus, Earl McGrath, and Track 16 Galleries, among many others.
Takis Efstathiou (1944- ) is a New York City art dealer for the work of Ynez Johnston. He was director of Tchernov Gallery in 1973, and, in 1977, opened the Ericson gallery on 74th Street and Madison Avenue, before becoming a private dealer in 1986 working under the name PTE Fine Arts. Ynez Johnston is a printmaker, painter, sculptor, and instructor who lives and works in Southern California.
Painter, draftsman, writer, composer; New York, New York. Born 1864. Died 1941.
Painter, mathematician, composer, writer; New York, N.Y.
William J. Eisenlord (1926-1997) worked as a photographer in San Francisco, California. He was an acquaintance of photographer, poet, and journalist Mark Green. Together with business partner Thayne Riggs, Eisenlord opened the Omnibus Gallery in Sacramento, California in 1980.
Art historian; Bridgeport, Connecticut.
Painter, illustrator, and teacher (New York).
Cartoonist; New York, N.Y.
Painter; Buckland, Massachusetts.
Tonalist painter, architect, Chicago, Ill.
Art patrons (New York, N.Y.)
Landscape painter; Boston, Massachusetts. Born Minster, Ohio. In 1868 he went to Boston to study lithography. He lived in Paris and Munich from 1873-1876. In 1876 he returned to Boston and opened a studio. He exhibited at the Paris Expo 1900. His work is in the collection of the Worcester Museum and the Boston Museum of Fine Arts.
Lily Ente (1905-1984) was a sculptor known for her works in white Italian and black Belgian marble.
Born Lena Deitchman in what is now Ukraine, she escaped the Russian Empire after World War I and lived in Paris and Cuba before joining her father in New York City in 1923. She married Lazar Ente who she met in Cuba, and the couple settled in the Bronx where they raised a family.
Ente's sister-in-law introduced her to sculpture and she first worked with clay before moving to marble. She exhibited her work around the world in the 1940s and 1950s and maintained a studio in Manhattan. Later in life, she and her husband moved to Woodstock, New York, where she continued to work and exhibit her sculptures.
Lily Ente died in 1984 in New York City.
Max Ernst (1891-1976) was a German Surrealist painter and sculptor. He moved to New York in 1941, and married Dorothea Tanning in California in 1946. They lived in Sedona, Arizona, until 1953, after which they primarily lived in France.
David Etnier is a photographer and son of Maine artist Stephen Etnier. He took the photographs in preparation for a book on Maine artists.
Painter and illustrator; Philadelphia, Pa. Died 1993. During the Second World War, Etting was an official French language announcer in London for the American Broadcast stations in Europe.
Art patron and collector. Born in Ireland, he came to the United States as a child. He gave collections of paintings to the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C. and the Montclair Museum.
Ex Libris, a New York City based antiquarian establishment that dealt in rare 20th century avant-garde books, periodicals, and archives, operated from 1973-circa 2000, and was founded by Elaine Lustig Cohen (1927- ) and her husband Arthur A. Cohen (1928-1986). Elaine Lustig Cohen is a graphic designer, previously married to the graphic designer Alvin Lustig (1915-1955), who later married her long-time friend Arthur A. Cohen, a scholar, theologian, and author, in 1956.
The Cohen's began collecting avant-garde books and ephemera from antiquarian bookstores and artists in Europe. Ex Libris began when the couple amassed a surplus of material and Arthur placed an ad in the New York Times that said, "send for my list of Dada, Surrealist, Avant-Garde periodicals and ephemera." The inventory of Ex Libris grew to include other movements of modernism including Bauhaus, Futurism, Cubism, De Stijl, German Expressionism, Constructivism, and Fluxus.
Ex Libris published catalogs of their inventory, designed by Elaine, which were sent to libraries and museums all over the world. The catalogs are now collector's items. Exhibitions were organized at Ex Libris that complemented their inventory, and they often loaned material to be included in exhibitions elsewhere.
A non-profit organization founded in 1966 to promote cooperation between artists, engineers, and industry on projects involving both art and technology. Known also by the acronym E.A.T.
Samson Lane Faison Jr. (1907-2006) was an art history professor at Williams College and director of the Williams College Museum of Art, Massachusetts. During World War II, Faison served in the Art Looting Investigation Unit of the Office of Strategic Services, an intelligence unit related to the Monuments, Fine Arts and Archives Division of the U.S. Army.
Samson Lane Faison Jr. was born in Washington, D.C. on November 16, 1907 to Samson Lane Faison Sr., a brigadier general in the United States Army, and Eleanor Sowers Faison. Faison graduated from Williams College in 1929, completed his M.A. at Harvard University in 1930, and a M.F.A. from Princeton in 1932. Shortly thereafter, he began teaching at Yale as an associate professor of art. In 1935, Faison married Virginia Gordon Weed (d. 1997) and they had four sons: Gordon, George, Christopher and Samson. Faison joined the Williams College faculty in 1936 and became head of the art department in 1940.
During World War II, Faison initially served as an instructor in U.S. Naval Air Force. From 1945-1946, however, Faison was a member of the Office of Strategic Services' Art Looting Investigation Unit (ALIU) responsible for investigating and interrogating Nazis and art dealers who were involved in the systematic looting of fine arts and antiquities across Europe. The ALIU investigated Karl Haberstock, Hitler's primary dealer and Hermann Voss, director of Hitler's Führermuseum in Linz, Austria where Hitler planned to house and display plundered art. Faison was the primary author of the report on the Führermuseum and also interrogated Göring's curator Walter Andreas Hofer. The ALIU issued twelve Detailed Interrogation Reports on Nazi looting activities which were used at the Nuremburg Trials.
During the recovery efforts, the U.S. government decided to ship 202 paintings that had been stolen by the Nazis from several Berlin museums in Germany (notably the Kaiser Friedrich Museum now known as the Bode Museum) to the U.S. for safekeeping at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. The government argued that the storage conditions in Germany were poor. Twenty-five of the Monuments Men signed a petition, known as the Wiesbaden Manifesto, against moving the paintings out of Germany. The Berlin Paintings were transported to the U.S. anyway and went on display at the National Gallery of Art before being put in storage. Faison was one of ninety-five American art historians who signed a second resolution in protest, demanding the immediate return of the paintings. The artwork, however, was not returned until 1948.
After the war, Faison resumed his professorship and his position as art department chair at Williams College and became director of the Williams College Museum of Art in 1948. In 1950, Faison returned to Germany as the last Director of the Munich Central Collecting Point, one of several recovered artwork repositories in Europe established by the U.S. State Department for inventory, research, and repatriation. Faison's orders were to close down the Munich Collecting Point, which took nine months.
Faison continued to teach at Williams until his retirement. Faison and two of his colleagues, William H. Pierson Jr. and Whitney S. Stoddard, were the three art history professors at Williams College nicknamed the "Holy Trinity," due to their reputation for launching the careers of their students to stratospheric heights. Several of their students went on to become directors at prestigious museums such as the Museum of Modern Art and the Guggenheim in New York, the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. and the Art Institute of Chicago. The New York Times created the moniker "Williams Mafia" in reference to the Williams alumni that were taught by the "Holy Trinity" and whom went on to become prominent members of the art world.
Faison was made a Chevalier of French Legion of Honor in 1952. He received a Guggenheim Fellowship for 1960-1961 and Williams college awarded him a Doctor of Letters in 1971. He stepped down from his position as art department chair in 1969, and retired from his position as the director of the Williams College Museum of Art in 1976. Faison died in Williamstown, MA in 2006 at the age of 98.
Gary Falk (1954-1986) was a painter and assemblage artist from New York, N.Y. Falk developed a personal sign system in his works of art, and often worked in enamel and acrylic on Plexiglas or aluminum.
Falk and his family moved to Bethesda, Maryland, in 1966. He attended the Corcoran School of Art and later graduated from Yale University with a degree in Fine Arts in 1975. After college he moved to New York City and worked as an artist. He had a one-man-show at the New Museum of Contemporary Art in 1983. During the 1980s, he participated in many other group exhibitions, most notably Narrative Forms (1984) at the Museo Rufino Tamayo and SIGNS (1985) at the New Museum. Falk died at the age of 32.
Educator; Syracuse, New York. Director of the Drama Department at the University of Syracuse. Active in the Federal Theater Project.
Samuel Frazer (1866-1954) was a painter, airbrush artist, and photographer in Boston, Mass.
Federal aid art project during the Depression. The Federal Art Project (FAP) fell under the jurisdiction of Federal Project No. 1 of the Works Progress Administration (WPA). Established in May 1935 specifically as a work relief program for unemployed artists. Each state and territory had its own programs and were administered aid from the federal government via a local agency.
Museum projects were programs of the Work Projects Administration instituted during the Depression to increase employment opportunities, particularly among the white-collar worker. By 1941, museum projects came under the jurisdiction of the Federal Art Program (originally the Federal Art Project) of the WPA. Plates of historical costumes as well as dioramas, costumed dolls and craft objects were often prepared for educational purposes.
The Federal Art Project (FAP) fell under the jurisdiction of Federal Project No. 1 of the Works Progress Administration (WPA). The WPA was established in May 1935 specifically as a work relief program for the millions of individuals left unemployed during the Depression. Its name changed to the Work Projects Administration in 1939 when it fell under the administrative hand of the newly created Federal Works Agency. The FAP was created in August 1935 to aid unemployed artists, following the precedent set by the Public Works of Art Project and other Treasury department art relief projects.
The Federal Art Project (FAP) was one of the Depression-era work-relief programs of the Federal Works Progress Administration (WPA). The program was founded in August 1935 to provide employment for artists and to implement visual arts programs in local communities across the country.
 Together with the Federal Music Project, the Federal Theater Project, and the Federal Writers' Project, the FAP formed part of the WPA's Federal Project No. 1. The WPA became the Work Projects Administration in 1939 when it fell under the administrative hand of the newly created Federal Works Agency; concurrently the Federal Art Project was officially re-named the Federal Art Program.
Under the direction of Holger Cahill, the goals of the FAP fell into three main areas: production of artwork, art education through art classes and community centers, and art research through the Index of American Design. During the course of the program, artists created murals and other works of art for many non-Federal government buildings such as schools, hospitals, and libraries. Separate photographic divisions were set up in several states, most notably in New York City, to document the work of artists employed by the program, activities in art education such as classes for children and adults, community center outreach programs, and other "Federal 1" projects, including the Federal Theater and Music Projects. Employees of the photographic division were also involved in other assignments, such as creating exhibitions and photo murals.
The Federal Art Project ended in 1943.
Art organization; New York, N.Y.
Federally funded music project of the Works Progress Administration. The Pan American Union worked with the Federal Music Project and developed projects like the music-copying project. The Philadelphia unit of the copying project reproduced scores of Latin-American compositions which were deposited in the Edwin A. Fleischer collection of the Free Library of Philadelphia.
The Federal Theater Project (FTP) was a program established under the Federal Project No. One of the Works Progress Administration (WPA) in 1935. It sought to create employment for actors and others involved in the performing arts during the Depression. Gertrude DonDero was the state director of the Connecticut Federal Theater Project.
Mural painter, portrait painter, teacher; North Bennington, Vt. Taught at Bennington College. Also known as Paul Terence Feeley.
Dorothy Lubell Feigin (1902-1969) was a painter, printmaker, and educator in New York City, New York. Feigin studied at the Art Students League and was an active member of the Federation of Modern Painters and Sculptors.
Painter, printmaker, cartoonist; New York, N.Y. and Berlin, Germany. Was active in the movement known as German Expressionism. Born in the United States and moved to Germany. Was known as one of the masters of the Bauhaus.
Architect (New York, N.Y.)
Rosamund Felsen (1934- ) is a gallery owner in Los Angeles.
Marjorie D. Martinet (1886-1991) was a Maryland painter and educator, and was the founder of the Marjorie Martinet School of Art in Baltimore, Maryland. She had a romantic relationship and longterm friendship with Beatrice Fenton (1887-1983). Fenton was a sculptor in Pennsylvania whom Martinet met while studying at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts.
Sculptor, teacher; La., Ohio, and Calif. Ferguson was born in Shangai, China. He studied art with Albert H. Atkins and Robert Laurent. He worked on the WPA art project on the facades of the Louisiana State Office Building and Agricultural Building in Baton Rouge, and the U.S. Post Office in Leesville. He taught at Louisiana State University in the 1940s and was also an instructor in Cleveland on the Federal Art Project for Karamu House, a neighborhood art center designed to provide instruction in the visual and performing arts. He was active in the Socialist Workers Party and other socialist and left-wing groups. He died in Los Angeles in 1974.
Hortense Tanenbaum Ferne (1885–1976) was a painter, etcher, and lithographer in New York City and Philadelphia.
Ferne was the daughter of Moses Tanenbaum, an art collector. She married Herman Fernberger in 1906 and in 1940 changed her name legally to Ferne. Her works are included in the permanent collections of the Smithsonian American Art Museum, Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art, and the Philadelphia Museum of Art.
Painter, lithographer, etcher, illustrator and teacher. Died 1965.
The Contemporary Study Wing of the Finch College Museum of Art, later called simply the "Contemporary Wing," was established in 1964 by the president of Finch College, Roland De Marco, as an extension the Finch College Museum of Art in New York City.
Its mission was to educate art history students at the Manhattan women's college who were interested in working with contemporary art. DeMarco, himself an art collector, hired Elayne Varian as director and curator of the contemporary wing. DeMarco met Varian in the New York office of the prominent international art dealership Duveen Brothers, where she had worked since the mid-1940s, most recently as an art dealer. Varian received her art education in Chicago, where she studied art history and education at the University of Chicago, and took classes in film at the Bauhaus and in fine art the Art Institute of Chicago. Sensitive to emerging art movements in galleries and studios around the city of New York, as the contemporary wing's curator, Varian quickly established a reputation for thoughtfully conceived, cutting-edge exhibitions which were consistently well-received by the press.
Under Varian, the Contemporary Wing carried out a dual mission of showing work of living artists and educating students and the public about the artwork and museum work in general. Varian used the galleries to provide practical training to students interested in a gallery or museum career throughout its existence. For several years, she also maintained an assistantship position for post-graduate museum professionals to gain experience in the field, many of whom went on to careers in museums across New York State.
The Contemporary Wing's best-known exhibitions formed a series of six shows called Art in Process, held between 1965 and 1972. Each of the Art in Process shows took a different medium, including painting, sculpture, collage, conceptual art, installation art, and serial art, and brought the process of art-making into the gallery with the artworks in various ways. For example, for Art in Process V (1972), the show about installation art, the galleries were open to the public for the entire process of its installation, allowing visitors to watch the works take shape. Another show entitled Documentation (1968) exhibited artworks with documentation such as artist's notes, sales records, and conservation records, bringing to light the value of record-keeping in the visual arts. Two exhibitions entitled Projected Art were also innovative, with the first (1966-1967) bringing experimental films from the cinema to the galleries, and the second (1971) showing artists' processes via footage and slides of artists working. Another show, Artists' Videotape Performances (1971), involved both screening of and creation of works in the gallery using a range of experiments with recent video technology. The museum also participated in an experimental broadcast of an artwork entitled Talk Out! by Douglas Davis, in which a telephone in the gallery allowed visitors to participate in its creation while it was broadcast live from Syracuse, NY. Other exhibitions that showcased experimentation in art included N-Dimensional Space (1970), on holography in art, Destruction Art(1968), on destructive actions being incorporated into contemporary art-making, and Schemata 7 (1967), a show about the use of environments in contemporary art, whose working title was "Walk-in Sculpture."
Other popular exhibitions at the Contemporary Wing included shows on Art Deco (1970) and Art Nouveau (1969). Several shows mined the private collections of prominent contemporary art collectors including Martha Jackson, Betty Parsons, George Rickey, Paul Magriel, Jacques Kaplan, Josephine and Philip Bruno, and Carlo F. Bilotti. A number of exhibitions featured contemporary art from overseas including Art from Belgium (1965), Art from Finland (1973), Seven Swedish Painters (1965), and Art in Jewelry (1966), which featured mainly international jewelry artists. Retrospective exhibitions of Hans Richter, Hugo Weber, and James Brooks were also held.
Hundreds of contemporary artists were shown at the Contemporary Wing in the eleven years of its existence, including many who came to be leading figures in contemporary art, and some who already were, including Andy Warhol, Roy Lichtenstein, Mel Bochner, Eva Hesse, Lynda Benglis, Bruce Nauman, Robert Morris, Lawrence Weiner, Robert Smithson, Sol Le Witt, Dan Flavin, Philip Pearlstein, and Yayoi Kusama, to name just a few.
The Contemporary Wing and the entire Finch College Museum of Art shut its doors in 1975, when Finch College closed due to lack of funds. The permanent collection was sold at that time, and the proceeds were used to pay Finch College employee salaries. Elayne Varian went on to the position of curator of contemporary art at the John and Mabel Ringling Museum in Sarasota, Florida. She died in 1987.
Jud Fine (1944- ) is a sculptor and educator in Venice, California, as well as former director of the University of Southern California Roski School of Fine Arts. Jud Fine is married to fellow artist, sculptor and installation artist Barbara McCarren (1958-), born in Washington, D.C., and they maintain a studio where they work on projects and commissions both individually and collaboratively.
Born in Los Angeles, Fine received a BA in History from the University of California, Santa Barbara. With a limited artwork portfolio he was lucky enough to be accepted into the Masters of Fine Arts program at Cornell University. Fine's reputation as an artist took hold firmly in the late 1960s and early 1970s, becoming particularly well known for sculpture and mixed media drawings, which established a recognizable style and conceptual framework. He has been represented by Ronald Feldman Gallery in New York City since 1972. He has participated in solo and group exhibitions internationally at institutions including Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles, Los Angeles County Museum of Art, Chicago Art Institute, Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago, Guggenheim Museum, New York, Yale University Art Museum, Museum Stuki, Poland, University of Sidney, Power Art Institute, Australia and the Pushkin State Museum of Fine Art, Moscow. McCarren received her bachelors of arts degree at UCLA in1980 and would meet Fine during work towards her masters of fine arts at USC in 1986. After nearly a decade of pursuing solo career opportunities including public art commissions, they decided to join forces making collaborative project proposals as McCarren Fine.
As Mccarren/Fine they have executed several works including Waterline a two square block mixed use development in Huntington Beach, CA, Split Mound for the San Francisco Zoo, Mais a 23-acre interactive park in Long beach, CA, Modestopo, the civic center plaza for the City of Modesto and Stanislaus County, CA and both the Central Library and Pershing Square in downtown Los Angeles. Beyond public art commissions, their collaboration has extended to their studio practice, with collaborative exhibitions including a 2002 show in Bangkok, Thailand, that was later expanded with new work for the 2005 show, Currency, at Ronald Feldman Gallery, New York. Together McCarren/Fine have completed around thirty public work projects, and numerous studio projects.
Painter, etcher, engraver, and educator (New York, N.Y. and "The Springs," Southampton, N.Y.)
Oscar P. Fitzgerald (1943- ) is an author, art consultant, and art historian in the field of decorative arts in Alexandria, Virginia. He graduated from Georgetown University earning a M.A. and Ph.D. in history. Fitzgerald was the director of the Navy Museum and is a faculty member at the Corcoran School of the Arts and Design.
Robert Fitzgerel is a collector; Newcastle, Maine. William Schack was Louis Eilshemius's first biographer. Louis Eilshemius (1869-1941) was a painter, writer, and composer.
National Director of the Federal Theater Project. FTP was established in 1935 as part of the Works Progress Administration Federal Project No. 1. It was abolished in 1939 when funding was cut in the Reorganization Act of 1939.
Painter and lithographer; Taos, New Mexico.
Albert S. Flint was an astronomer; his brother, a mining engineer.; Madison, Wisconisn.
Mary Hallock Foote (1847-1938), born in Milton-on-Hudson, N.Y., was a writer and illustrator of stories and novels about the American West.
Fort Worth National Bank (founded 1873) formed an art collection for its new building in Fort Worth, Texas.
Established by Stephen Bartlett Foster (1856-1932) and John Roy Foster (1863-1931), Foster Brothers opened in 1893 at 164 Boylston Street, Boston. By 1896, Foster Brothers had moved to 3 Park Square, just around the corner from its first location. Eventually, the business relocated to 4 Park Square, where it stayed for the remainder of its existence. The original Foster Brothers factory was housed in the old Parkman's Market building on Cambridge Street in Boston. In 1918, the Fosters built a new factory in Arlington, the suburb in which the brothers lived.
Foster Brothers was known for high quality frames that featured expert carving and gilding by fine craftsmen, consistent with the esthetic and philosophy of the Arts and Crafts movement of the time. Their frames that incorporated elements of early Dutch frames especially appealed to Boston School artists such as Edmund Tarbell and William MacGregor Paxton. Custom orders were welcomed from museums, galleries, collectors, and artists. In the 1890s, Foster Brothers operated a small gallery that featured watercolors and sketches by local artists; sporadic exhibitions continued throughout the 1930s. Early business cards and advertisements indicate that the company sold "wedding presents, etchings, engravings, water colors and picture frames." Among its best selling merchandise were mirrors in a wide variety of styles. As early as 1898, Foster Brothers began to copyright and publish reproductions of paintings, drawings, silhouettes, and miniatures. These were framed in sets and sold by Foster Brothers in its retail shop and by mail order; in addition, they were distributed through department stores, furniture stores, gift shops, and interior decorators.
John Roy Foster was in charge of promotion and merchandising, designing the retail line, and managing the company's wholesale and mail order businesses. Stephen Bartlett Foster managed the factory and oversaw all aspects of the manufacturing. Helen J. Foster, John's daughter, studied art at Smith College and by the late 1920s was a successful manager and saleswoman in the retail store. The Depression brought a sharp decline in sales. After the deaths of John and Stephen Foster, Helen and her husband, Shattuck Osborne, owned and managed Foster Brothers for another decade. Although the business closed in 1942, Foster Brothers frames continue to command high prices and are highly prized and sought after today.
Muralist, painter, illustrator. Died 1987. Studied at Princeton, at the National Academy of Design, and at the Art Students League. Worked for the Section of Painting and Sculpture of the Treasury Department. His post office mural in Freehold, N.J. made a favorable impression on Roosevelt, who encouraged him in his work on another mural in Pougkeepsie, N.Y.
Ceramicist; Detroit, Michigan.
Sculptor and etcher; Houston, Tex.
Exhibition organizer, Cheltenham Art Centre; Cheltenham, Pa. Formerly operated the Pearl Fox Gallery (est. 1948)
Muralists and painters; Chicago, Ill. Married in 1923. Worked on the Public Works of Art Project and Federal Art Project. Painted several post office murals. Belonged to local arts organizations such as the Renaissance Society and the No-Jury Society of Artists. Foy, who used her maiden name professionally, gained recognition locally for her paintings of flowers.
Alfred Victor Frankenstein (1906-1981) was an art historian, writer, art and music critic, and educator active in San Francisco, California.
Frankenstein was born in 1906 in Chicago, Illinois. He studied at the University of Chicago but moved to San Francisco to take a job as a music critic for the San Francisco Chronicle. Later, the position expanded to include critiques of visual art and art exhibitions. He remained at the San Francisco Chronicle until 1979, concentrating only on art from 1965.
He was an expert on 19th century American still-life and his notable book, After The Hunt (1953), examined the American trompe-l'œil movement in late 19th century and early 20th-century through the work of painters William Harnett and John Frederick Peto. He also authored The World of Copley: 1738-1815 in 1970. Frankenstein curated several major exhibitions, including American Self-Portraits (1974) at the National Portrait Gallery and the 1974 World's Fair Exposition exhibition, Our Land, Our Sky Our Water: an Exhibition of American and Canadian Art..
An educator, Frankenstein was a professor of Art History at the University of California at Berkeley (1940-1974), Stanford University (1973-1981), and at Mills College (1945-1974), where he also taught American music.
Emily A. Francis (1879-1966) (also known as Emily Jacobs) was the director of the Contemporary Arts gallery (also known as Contemporary Arts, Inc.) in New York, which she founded in 1929 and incorporated into a membership organization in 1931.
Inspired by the American Art-Union (1839-1851), she organized the Collectors of American Art, Inc. in 1937, which was associated with the gallery and initially called the Painting of the Month Club. Contemporary Arts held group shows and selected original artist prints and paintings to distribute annually to Collectors of American Art, Inc. paying members, which began at $5.00 per year. The stated mission of Collectors of American Art, Inc. was "to encourage production and distribution of Fine Art in America." Contemporary Arts sponsored painters and sculptors and exhibited their works in annual traveling exhibitions to universities and art centers across the country, as well as internationally; held regular Monday evening open house receptions for artists to exhibit their paintings and sculptures and chat with the public; and held monthly "Meet the Artist" parties for high schoolers to talk with the artists. Francis was born in Christchurch, New Zealand, and first visited the United States in 1913, emigrating in 1916. She remained director of Contemporary Arts and Collectors of American Art, Inc. until her death in New York City in 1966, at the age of 87.
John F. Francis, born in Philadelphia, was a painter and silhouettist, who worked in many Pennsylvania towns.
Frank Lloyd Gallery was established in 1996 in Santa Monica, California. The gallery exhibited contemporary ceramics, showing established U.S. artists as well as ceramicists from England, France, Holland, Mexico and Japan. Artists shown at the gallery include Peter Shire, Otto and Vivika Heino, Roseline Delisle, John Mason, Anna Silver, Wouter Dam, and many more. The gallery closed its public exhibition program in 2015, but continues to work with private collectors, museums, and commercial galleries; and represents the estates of Craig Kauffman, Peter Voulkos, and Larry Bell.
Frank K. M. Rehn (1886-1956), son of the marine painter Frank Knox Morton Rehn, after several years' experience as an employee of the Milch Galleries and as exhibition manager for the Salmagundi Club, opened his own art gallery in 1918. In its earliest years, the gallery operated as the Galleries of Frank K. M. Rehn. From the mid 1920s through the mid 1940s, the name used was Frank K. M. Rehn Galleries. As early as 1946, the gallery was referred to simply as Rehn Galleries. The gallery closed in 1981.
Throughout its existence, Rehn Galleries specialized in representing American painters. During the first five years Rehn's operation was a private gallery at 6 West 50th Street, New York City. Among the artists he first represented were older, established men such as J. Alden Weir, George Inness, Alexander Wyant, Theodore Robinson, Thomas Dewing, and John H. Twachtman. Occasionally, Rehn handled works by such luminaries of the period as Robert Henri, George Luks, and John Singer Sargent. Among the living artists affiliated with the gallery in its first years were Daniel Garber, Walter Griffin, Dodge MacKnight, and Robert Spencer. Rehn's most popular artist during this time was Childe Hassam, who sued for recovery of a painting that, although acquired by Rehn through a reputable dealer, had been stolen from Hassam's studio many years earlier.
Despite the newspaper publicity surrounding Hassam's lawsuit, the business was a successful venture almost immediately. Very early, a number of important collectors including Duncan Phillips, John Gellatly, John T. Spaulding, Albert McVitty, E. W. Root, and C. Vanderbilt Barton displayed confidence in Rehn's judgment and integrity, which enhanced his gallery's reputation and stature among both collectors and artists. In 1923, the gallery moved to 693 Fifth Avenue and began operating as Rehn Galleries, a commercial gallery in the same building that housed in a building that housed Kennedy and Company and the Bourgeois Galleries. At this time, Rehn hired an assistant, John C. Clancy (1897-1981), who had formerly been with Henry Reinhardt and Son and M. Knoedler.
The Rehn Galleries soon enjoyed a regular following among museum curators and collectors visiting from out of town. The gallery's roster of artists grew along with its reputation. Rehn focused almost exclusively on American painters, occasionally showing drawings and prints by artists who were primarily painters; notable exceptions were sculptor Mahonri Young and Henry Varnum Poor who, in addition to being a painter, was known for his work in ceramics. Among the painters eventually represented were: Peggy Bacon, George Bellows, Alexander Brook, Charles Burchfield, John F. Carlson, John Carroll, Howard Cook, Jon Corbino, Virginia Cuthbert, Andrew Dasberg, Sidney Gross, Edward Hopper, Alexander James, Irving Kaufmann, Yeffe Kimball, Leon Kroll, Peppino Mangravite, Reginald and Felicia Meyer Marsh, Henry Mattson, Henry Lee McFee, Kenneth Hayes Miller, Charles Rosen, Robert Riggs, Alexander Russo, Elizabeth Sparhawk-Jones, Eugene Speicher, Henry Strater, Richard Derby Tucker, Franklin C. Watkins, and Denny Winters.
In 1930, Rehn Galleries moved one block south to the Air France Building at 683 Fifth Avenue, and remained there for thirty years. John C. Clancy, Rehn's long-time assistant, became Gallery Director in 1953 after a stroke prevented Rehn from continuing to run his business in an active capacity. Eventually, Rehn's widow sold Clancy the gallery, which he continued to operate under varying names, including Rehn Gallery, Frank K. M. Rehn Galleries, Frank Rehn Gallery, and Rehn Galleries. From 1960 until 1966, The Rehn Galleries were at 36 East 61st Street from 1960 until 1966, when the gallery moved to a space formerly occupied by Kootz Gallery at 855 Madison Avenue, where it remained in business for another fifteen years.
Architect, painter and printmaker; Mass. Born 1906, Seattle, Wash.; died 1997, Danvers, Mass.
Art historian; Newport Beach, Calif. Interested in painter Loren MacIver. In 1983 Frash curated the exhibition "Five Decades: Loren MacIver" at the Newport Harbor Art Museum.
The Frederick Hammersley Foundation (est. 2009) is a charitable organization dedicated to promoting the life and works of artist, Frederick Hammersley.
Phyllis Freeman (1929- 1997) was an art historian, writer and editor in New York, N.Y.
Mural painter, sculptor, etcher, and draftsman; New York, N.Y. Born in Ossining, N.Y. Studied at Amherst College and at the Art Students League.
Sculptor and filmmaker; Port Aransas, Tex.
Impressionist painter Frederick Carl Frieseke (1874-1939) lived in New York and Paris before becoming a leading figure of the second generation of Americans at Giverny, France. Frieseke studied at the Art Institute of Chicago and the Art Students League, New York City. He moved to France in 1898 where he lived until his death in 1939.
Painter; San Francisco, Calif. Born in Pullman, Washington. Studied art at Washington State University, at the Brooklyn Museum, and at the Los Angeles Art School. Died by suicide in 1971.
Watercolorist and filmmaker (Fairfax, Calif.)
Artist and teacher (Parma, Ohio).
Arthur Burdett (A.B.) Frost (1851-1928), was an American illustrator, graphic artist and comics writer. He was also well known as a painter. Frost's son, Arthur Burdett Frost, Jr. (1887-1917), was not as well known, but was an early painter of color abstractions.
Miniature painter; Cornish, N.H. Studied under Henry Siddons Mowbray and William Merritt Chase at the Art Students League in NYC. Married Henry B. Fuller in 1893. In 1899, she was one of the founders of the American Society of Miniature Painters. Was stricken with multiple sclerosis. Summered at the art colony in Cornish, N.H.
Sue Fuller (1914-2006) was a sculptor and printmaker from Southampton, New York. She is known for her sculptural works created with string and thread.
Florence Forst (1919-2005) was a ceramicist from the Chicago, Illinois. She created experimental pottery which was shown at the Museum of Modern Art in 1946.
Painter, instructor; Houston, Texas.
Painter, illustrator, etcher, instructor; Willoughby, Ohio.
The Gallery Wall, Inc., was established in 1966 by Glenn and Sandy Green in Phoenix, Arizona, and was known for its representation of Chiricahua Apache artist Allan Houser and Hopi-Tewa artist Dan Namingha.
The gallery expanded, opening additional locations in Santa Fe in 1979 and Scottsdale in 1981. It was renamed Glenn Green Galleries in 1988.
Art Gallery for contemporary handmade furniture; New York, N.Y.
Museum curator; San Diego, Calif. Carles was a Philadelphia painter and art instructor.
Isabella Stewart Gardner was an art patron, collector, and museum founder in Boston, Mass. Immediately after graduation from Harvard, Bernard Berenson was hired by Gardner to travel throughout Italy collecting Italian Renaissance art for her recreated Venetian palazzo in Boston. She established her palazzo as a museum of fine European art with stipulations that after her death none of the exhibited works was to be moved or rearranged, but left as she had designed during her lifetime.
Graphic artist, muralist, and activist Hugo Gellert was born Hugo Grünbaum in Budapest, Hungary in 1892, the oldest of six children. His family immigrated to New York City in 1906, eventually changing their family name to Gellert.
 Gellert attended art school at Cooper Union and the National Academy of Design. As a student, he designed posters for movies and theater, and also worked for Tiffany Studios. A number of student art prizes with cash awards enabled him to travel to Europe in the summer of 1914, where he witnessed the outbreak of World War I, an experience which helped shape his political beliefs. Aesthetically, he was also influenced by a folk revival among Hungarian artists at the time of his trip, and was more impressed, he later said, with the street advertising in Paris than he was with the cubism he saw in the Louvre.
 Returning to the United States, Gellert became involved in the Hungarian-American workers' movement, and contributed drawings to its newspaper, Elöre (Forward). He remained involved in Hungarian-American art and activism throughout his life, including membership in the anti-fascist group, the Anti-Horthy League. When members of the fascist Horthy government unveiled a statue of a Hungarian hero in New York in 1928, Gellert hired a pilot and dropped leaflets on the group, a stunt for which he was arrested. In the 1950s, Gellert served as director of Hungarian Word, Inc., a Hungarian-language publisher in New York.
 Gellert's political commitment and art remained deeply intertwined throughout his life, as he continually sought to integrate his commitment to Communism, his hatred of fascism, and his dedication to civil liberties. Throughout the 1910s and 1920s, he contributed artwork to several magazines of the radical left, including Masses and its successors Liberator and New Masses, both of which featured Gellert's artwork on their inaugural issue. Through Masses, he came to know other radicals such as Mike Gold, John Reed, Louise Bryant, Max Eastman, Floyd Dell, Anton Refregier, William Gropper, Harry Gottlieb, Bob Minor, and Art Young, and with them he followed the events of the Bolshevik revolution in Russia with sympathy and growing political fervor.
 His brother, Ernest Gellert, also a socialist and activist, was drafted into the military but refused to serve. He died of a gunshot wound under suspicious circumstances while imprisoned at Fort Hancock, New Jersey, as a conscientious objector. Traumatized by this event, Gellert fled to Mexico to avoid conscription. In 1920 to 1922, he taught art at the Stelton School in New Jersey, a radical, utopian community school. He participated in the cultural scene of Greenwich Village, working on set designs, publications, and graphic art for political productions. He founded the first John Reed Club in 1929 with a group of Communist artists and writers including Anton Refregier, Louis Lozowick, and William Gropper. Initially, the group held classes and exhibitions, and provided services for strikes and other working-class activism. Later, John Reed Clubs formed around the country and became a formal arm of the United States Communist Party (CPUSA).
 In the late 1920s, Gellert became a member of the National Society of Mural Painters (which, partly due to Gellert's activism in the group, became the Mural Artists' Guild local 829 of the United Scenic Artists Union of the AFL-CIO in 1937. Other members included Rockwell Kent, Anton Refregier, Arshile Gorky, and Marion Greenwood). In 1928, he created a mural for the Worker's Cafeteria in Union Square, NY. Later murals include the Center Theater in Rockefeller Center, the National Maritime Union Headquarters, the Hotel and Restaurant Workers' Union Building, NYC, the interior of the Communications Building at the 1939 World's Fair, and the Seward Park Housing Project in 1961.
 In 1932, Gellert was invited to participate in a mural exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art, and submitted a political mural about the robber barons of contemporary American politics and industry called Us Fellas Gotta Stick Together - Al Capone. The museum attempted to censor the mural, along with the murals of William Gropper and Ben Shahn. Other artists threatened to boycott the exhibition over the censorship and were successful in restoring them to the show.
 The cooperation of artists in this controversy foreshadowed a larger protest in 1934, organized by Gellert, Saul Belman, Stuart Davis, and Zoltan Hecht, when Diego Rivera's pro-labor mural was destroyed at Rockefeller Center. After the incident, the group formed the Artists' Committee of Action and continued to fight censorship and advocate for artists' interests and welfare. They also co-published the magazine Art Front with the Artists' Union, a labor organization. Gellert served for a time as editor of Art Front, and chairman of the Artists' Committee of Action.
 Gellert was active in producing both art and strategic policy for the cultural arm of the CPUSA, and he worked to mobilize the non-communist left, often referred to as the Popular Front. In 1933 he illustrated Karl Marx's Capital in Lithographs, and in 1935, he wrote a Marxist, illustrated satire called Comrade Gulliver, An Illustrated Account of Travel into that Strange Country the United States of America. Other published graphic works include Aesop Said So (1936) and a portfolio of silkscreen prints entitled Century of the Common Man (1943).
 Other artist groups he helped to found and/or run include the American Artist's Congress, a Communist organization founded with Max Weber, Margaret Bourke-White, Stuart Davis, Yasuo Kuniyoshi, Harry Sternberg, and others, which held symposia and exhibitions between 1936 and 1942; the Artists' Coordination Committee, an umbrella group of national organizations which sought protections for federally-employed and unionized artists; Artists for Victory, Inc., which formed in 1942 to mobilize artists in support of the war effort; and the Artists' Council, formed after the war to advocate for artists' welfare and employment.
 Gellert maintained his loyalty to the Communist party throughout the post-war period despite growing disillusionment in the Popular Front over the actions of Josef Stalin, and despite the intense anti-communist crusades in the late 1940s and 1950s. He was investigated by the House of Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC) and was nearly deported. He spent a number of years during this period in his wife's native Australia. Returning to the United States in the early 1950s, he threw his efforts into the defense of others who faced prison, deportation, and the blacklist following the HUAC hearings. He established The Committee to Defend V.J. Jerome in 1951 when Jerome, the cultural commissioner of CPUSA, was convicted under the Smith Act. The writer Dorothy Parker was the group's treasurer.
 In 1954, Gellert established the Art of Today Gallery in New York City with Rockwell Kent and Charles White to provide an exhibition venue for blacklisted artists. Exhibitions included Maurice Becker, Henry Glintenkamp, Harry Gottlieb, Kay Harris, and Rockwell Kent. Gellert served as the gallery's secretary until it closed in 1957.
 In the 1960s until his death in 1985, Gellert continued his activism through involvement in grassroots political organizations. Unlike many of his radical contemporaries, Gellert lived to see the revival of some of the ideas of the progressive era of the thirties in the countercultural years of the late 1960s and early 1970s. There were retrospectives of his work in Moscow in 1967 and in his native Budapest in 1968, and he appeared in Warren Beatty's film Reds in 1981.
Sources used for this essay include James Wechsler's 2003 dissertation "The Art and Activism of Hugo Gellert: Embracing the Spectre of Communism," his essay "From World War I to the Popular Front: The Art and Activism of Hugo Gellert," ( Journal of Decorative and Propaganda Arts number 24, Spring 2002), and Jeff Kisseloff's biographical essay for the 1986 Hugo Gellert exhibition at the Mary Ryan Gallery.
Born in Krivoi Rog, Russia on January 1, 1901, Eugenie was the youngest of the Gershoy children. The family immigrated to New York City in 1903. She later became a U.S. citizen.
With the aid of two scholarships, she attended the Art Students League and studied under A. Stirling Calder, Leo Lentelli, Kenneth Hayes Miller, Boardman Robinson, and Carl Walters. During the late 1920s and early 1930s, she maintained a studio with Harry Gottlieb in Woodstock, New York. From 1936 to 1939, under the WPA Federal Art Project, she worked in conjunction with Max Spivak on murals for the children's recreation room in the Astoria branch of the Queens Borough Public Library, New York.
Gershoy's first solo show was at the Robinson Gallery in New York in 1940. Following a year of teaching at the New Orleans Art School, she moved to San Francisco in 1942. In 1946 she taught ceramics at the California School of Fine Arts, and in May 1950, she studied at Yaddo.
In addition to visits to England and France in the early 1930s, Gershoy travelled to Mexico and Guatemala in 1947, 1948, and 1961. She worked in Paris in 1951 and toured Africa, India, and the Orient in 1955.
Eugenie Gershoy died in 1986.
Ilse Getz (1917-1992) was born in Nuremberg, Germany and immigrated to the U.S. in 1933. She studied at the Art Students League with George Grosz and Morris Kantor and at the Ozenfant School. Getz was a collage and construction artist active from the 1950s through the 1980. She exhibited at several galleries in New York City including the Bertha Schaefer Gallery and Rosenberg Gallery.
During her childhood, Ilse Getz (nee Bechhold) had been uprooted both from home and country. She was first displaced in 1929, when she was sent to Hamburg to live with her sister after her father died by suicide. In 1933, Ilse and her sister left Nazi Germany, and traveled to Italy, Spain, Cuba, and Mexico. Ilse joined immediate family in New York. In 1937, Ilse married lawyer David Getz and settled in Allentown, Pennsylvania. Three years later she had a child and became a naturalized citizen of the United States.
In 1942, while visiting her sister in Mexico, Getz created her first oil painting. Upon returning to New York, Ilse continued her artistic exploration and studied with George Grosz and Morris Kantor at the Art Students League. By 1945, Getz had already held her first solo exhibition at the Norlyst Gallery in New York.
Getz traveled extensively throughout her life, incorporating the experiences in her work. During 1947-1948, she traveled and worked in Europe, visiting Switzerland, France, Spain and Portugal among other countries before retiring for four months in Guaruja, Brazil. She destroyed most of the artwork created during that period and returned to New York City.
During the summer of 1956, Getz taught and exhibited at the Positano Art Workshop in Italy along with Piero Dorazio. She repeated the experience two years later. In 1958, Getz married her second husband, artist Manoucher Yektai. The following year, Getz and Yektai went to Yaddo in Saratoga Springs, New York after having received fellowships to the artists' community.
In 1960, Getz was commissioned by Richard Barr to create the set for Eugene Ionesco's play, The Killer. The venue was the Seven Arts Theater in New York City and she completed the set in five days. Getz spent the next two years in Paris where she was represented by the Iris Clert Gallery; she exhibited in France, Germany and England. In 1962, Getz returned to New York City and maintained a studio on the Upper East Side. Getz married for the third time in 1964 to Gibson Danes who was then the Dean of Yale School of Art and Architecture. The couple lived in New York and Connecticut, and eventually settled in Newtown, Connecticut.
Getz participated in national and international exhibitions and in solo and group shows. Her collages and constructions incorporate items such as dolls, toys, birds, eggs, playing cards, and game boards. In 1978, retrospective exhibitions of Getz's work were held at the Neuberger Museum in Purchase, New York and in her native city at the Kunsthalle Nürnberg. Retrospective exhibitions were also held in 1980 at the Goethe House and Alex Rosenberg Gallery.
Later in life, Getz suffered from advanced Alzheimer's disease. In 1992, Gibson Danes, fearful that he would no longer be able to properly care for his wife, took both his life and that of Ilse Getz. They were found dead in their garage from acute carbon monoxide toxicity after breathing the fumes of their idling car.
Ruth Gikow (1915-1932) was a New York based painter, illustrator, and serigrapher. Gikow was born in Ukraine, emigrating to New York City with her parents in 1920. She studied under John Steuart Curry at the Cooper Union Art School from 1932-1935. She also studied with Louis Ross, Louis Schanker and Raphael Soyer. In 1935 Gikow became a Works Progress Administration artist, and in 1939 Gikow was awarded a commission to paint a mural titled Children's Indoor and Outdoor Activities for the children's wing of Bronx Hospital. Her other mural work included a live demonstration at the 1943 New York City World's Fair, and commercial murals for department stores across the city. Her career also involved illustrating books such as an edition of Crime and Punishment and History of the Jews in America by Deborah Pessin; and co-founding the American Serigraph Society in which she developed her technique with silk screen printing. In 1946 Gikow married painter Jack Levine.
Her paintings are in the collection of several art museums including the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Whitney, the Museum of Modern Art, and the National Institute of Arts and Letters in New York, the Smithsonian Institute in Washington D.C., the Philadelphia Museum of Art, as well as collections at Brandeis University, and New York University.
Harington Beard owned a gallery in Minneapolis, Minn. Beard was born in England and moved with his family to the United States in 1879. When his father's business was destroyed by the Chicago fire, Beard and his brothers opened a stationery store. In 1886, Beard married, moved to Minneapolis and opened the Harington Beard Fine Art Shop. The name was later changed to Beard Art Galleries and the gallery operated continuously until Beard's death in 1940. Richard Beard Thompson reopened the gallery around 1980.
Constance Glenn (1933-) is an art historian, writer, and curator in California. Glenn was the founding director of the University Art Museum at California State University, Long Beach. She received her Bachelor of Fine Art from the University of Kansas in 1955, and completed her Masters of Arts in Fine Art from California State University as she simultaneously founded the University Art Museum at CSULB in 1973. During her career at CSULB, the University Art Museum grew from a small gallery-sized exhibition space to a nationally-celebrated contemporary art museum. Glenn also founded the Graduate Certificate Program in Museum Studies at CSULB, and taught art history and museum studies courses at the university.
Exhibitions curated by Glenn include Frances Benjamin Johnson: Women of Status and Station (1979); Eric Fischl: Scenes Before the Eye (1986-1987); James Rosenquist: Time Dust/The Complete Graphics (1962-1992); The Great America Pop Art Store: Multiples of the Sixties (1997); and Candida Hofer: Architecture of Absence (2004). In addition, Glenn served as a consulting curator for A Happening Place (2003), curated by Cheryl Harper for the Gershman Y in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
As an art historian and writer, Glenn participated in lectures and panel discussions as well as published essays, articles, and books. Glenn was an editor and feature writer for Antiques & Fine Art, Angeles Magazine, and Architectural Digest; contributed biographical articles to the Dictionary of Art and Encyclopedia Americana; and was involved with professional associations such as the J. Paul Getty Trust Fund for the Visual Arts, Art/LA, Association of Art Museum Directors, and the Archives of American Art.
Glenn was married to art dealer Jack Glenn (1933-2014).
Morton Goldsmith (1882-1971) was a collector and patron from Scarsdale, N.Y. Ernest Fiene (1894-1965) was a painter, lithographer, etcher, illustrator, and teacher from New York. His association with Goldsmith went beyond that of artist and patron - Goldsmith also advised Fiene on investment matters, particularly the stock market. Boris Dmitrievich Grigore̓v [also spelled Grigoriev, or Grigoriew] (1886-1939) was a painter from the Soviet Union.
Nancy Goldring (1945- ) is an American artist working in New York. Raised in St. Louis, Missouri where her father was a professor of cardiology at Washington University, Goldring attended Smith College, receiving a BA in art history in 1967. She spent a year in Italy on a Fulbright fellowship and was later enrolled in the MFA program at New York University. She has been teaching at Montclair State University since the early 1970s. In 1994, Goldring traveled in India and Sri Lanka on another Fulbright fellowship.
In 1969, Goldring co-founded SITE (Sculpture in the Environment) with several other artists interested in developing public art projects. Within a few years, Goldring moved on to explore other forms of artmaking and subsequently developed a technique she calls "foto-projection" which combines photography, drawing, models, and slide projection. She is influenced by travel, location, memory.
Sculptor, illustrator, lecturer, teacher; New York, N.Y. Another apparent name spelling is Aharon Gudlman.
George M. Goodwin has written and lectured on Frank Lloyd Wright, synagogue and museum architecture, Holocaust memorials, and other aspects of American Jewish history. A specialist in oral history research, he is also served as archivist of Temple Beth-El in Providence, Rhode Island.
Frank Lloyd Wright (1867-1959) was a notable American architect. He built the William H. Winslow House, Unity Temple in Oak Park, Midway Gardens in Chicago, and the new Imperial Hotel in Tokyo, Japan. In the 1920s Wright established the Taliesin Fellowship as a means of teaching architecture.
Lloyd Goodrich (1897-1987) was a prominent and influential art historian, writer, and director of the Whitney Museum of Art in New York City, New York, from 1958-1968.
Lloyd Goodrich was born in Nutley, New Jersey in 1897. He studied under Kenneth Hayes Miller at the Art Students League from 1913-1915 and also took courses at the National Academy of Design. Rather than pursue a career as an artist, however, he decided that his real talent was writing about art. He began his long and prolific writing career in 1923-24 and married Edith Havens in 1924. Inspired by the work and writings of European art scholars and a desire to address the need for a body of scholarship on American Art, Goodrich began to research and write about American artists Kenneth Hayes Miller, Winslow Homer, and Thomas Eakins.
Goodrich's first article on Winslow Homer was published in 1924 by The Arts, a magazine financed by Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney and edited by Forbes Watson, who soon hired Goodrich as associate editor. By 1929, Goodrich was also working as assistant art critic for the New York Times while continuing work at The Arts as contributing editor. One year later, The Arts commissioned Goodrich to write a book on Kenneth Hayes Miller. And, around the same time Goodrich became interested in Thomas Eakins, and with the encouragement and financial support from his boyhood friend, artist Reginald Marsh, he began work on a monograph about Eakins.
In 1930, Goodrich joined the staff of Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney's new American art museum in New York City, the Whitney Museum of American Art. The museum provided him with the funds he needed to research and complete his book on Thomas Eakins, which he achieved in 1933. In 1935, he became curator of the museum, and associate director in 1948. He served as director from 1958-1968. The bequest of the Edward Hopper collection to the Whitney was the result of Goodrich's reputation as a scholar of Edward Hopper. After retiring, Goodrich continued his association with the Whitney as advisory director and director emeritus.
Goodrich was instrumental in starting the American Art Research Council in 1942, a group of museums devoted to collecting scholarly records about American art. He sat on the advisory panels for the New York State Council on the Arts and the Fine Arts Advisory Committee to the White House. In 1933, he was in charge of the New York regional office of the Public Works of Art Project. He also served as chairman of the National Council on the Arts and Government from 1948 to 1954 and was a major force in the creation of the National Endowment for the Arts and Humanities. He was a member of the Artists Equity Association, Artist Tenants Association, and numerous other arts organizations and a strong advocate for the promotion and support of American art and artists.
Throughout his long and distinguished career as a writer and museum administrator, Lloyd Goodrich worked to build a body of scholarship related to the history of American art and artists. He published several important monographs, including works on Thomas Eakins, Edward Hopper, Albert Pinkham Ryder, Winslow Homer, and Reginald Marsh, and organized major exhibitions about these and many other artists during his 57-year association with the Whitney Museum of American Art. At the time of his death, Goodrich was considered a preeminent figure in the American art world, and one of the foremost authorities on Eakins, Ryder, and Homer, artists on which he kept extensive research files throughout his life.
Lloyd Goodrich died March 27, 1987.
Edwin Weyburn Goodwin was an itinerant miniature and portrait painter in upstate New York. During his fifteen year career, ca. 1830-1845, he painted approximately 800 portraits. His son, Richard La Barre Goodwin, was a landscape, portrait and still-life painter; best known as a painter of fish and game. Until ca. 1880, Richard La Barre Goodwin, like his father, was an itinerant painter of portraits in upstate New York.
Paris, France. Firm succeeded by Knoedler and Company.
Jacqueline Gourevitch (1933- ) is a painter and educator in New York, New York. Gourevitch was born in Paris and moved to New York with her parents when she was a child. There she attended the High School of Music and Art where she decided to pursue a career as a painter. In 1950, she attended a summer program for art studies at Black Mountain College. She studied Art History at the University of Chicago and took courses at the Art Institute of Chicago and the Art Students League. In 1954, she married Victor Gourevitch, a graduate student at the University of Chicago, and they had two sons.
Although Gourevitch is most widely known for her Cloud paintings, her work focuses on the sky and clouds and incorporates the earth and the city, often observed from a distance or a high place. After many years of painting independently, Gourevitch began teaching in the early 1970s. She taught courses in drawing and painting at Wesleyan University in Middletown, Connecticut, and Cooper Union in New York. She held several Visiting Artist positions throughout her life and her work has been exhibited and included in permanent collections across the United States.
Art critic, author; Philadelphia, Penn. Died 1980. Dorothy Grafly's father, Charles Grafly, was an art instructor and sculptor, trained in Philadelphia. He taught at the Pennsylvania Academy, Drexel Institute, and the School of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.
The Graham Gallery (est. 1981- closed 1992) was an art gallery in Houston, Texas owned by William A. Graham (1939-1992).
Jack Mayer was an art dealer and owner of Gallery Mayer, New York, which handled the work of painter John Graham. Graham, born Ivan Gratsianovitch Dombrovski in Kiev, Russia in 1886 (baptised in 1881, hence the use of that year on many authoritative sources), came to N.Y. in 1920 and was a central figure among American avant-garde artists, especially from the late 1920s to 1940s. Graham was also a collector of African art which inspired an interest in primitivism in his work. Graham moved to Mexico in 1936. In 1937 he published Systems and Dialectics of Art, stimulating American artists interest in primitive art.
Blanche Mary Aronson (Grambs) (1916-2010) was a printmaker in New York, N.Y. Aronson created prints for the Work's Progress Administration.
Dwinell Grant (1912-1991) was a painter and filmmaker in Pennsylvania. Grant was born and raised in Ohio. He received early art training from his grandfather, Paul E. Henking, and also studied at the Dayton Art Institute and the National Academy of Design. In 1935, he began teaching at Wittenberg College in Ohio. He was primarily influenced by his association with Hilla Rebay and the Museum of Non-Objective Art (the Guggenheim), and from 1944-1948 worked on an unfinished film project for the Guggenheim. In 1947, he began producing medical teaching films and supplemented his income with work on medical books, while continuing to work on his paintings.
Alice Gray (1914-1944) was an entomologist in New York who co-founded the Friends of the Origami Center of America in New York.
Art society. Formerly the Greenwich Society of Artists. Founded 1912. Some members were associated with the "Cos Cob School," and many associated with the development of the American Impressionist movement. Founders and early members included Edward Clark Potter, Leonard Ochtman, Elmer MacRae, William B. Tubby, Joseph Howland Hunt, Sr., Florence W. Gotthold, George Wharton Edwards and Alden Twachtman. Dorothy Ochtman was secretary, 1928-1946, and President, 1947-1948.
Gallery owner and art historian; Washington, D.C. During the late 1960s, Eleanor (Sue) Broome Green was curator of contemporary art at the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.
Joseph J. Greenberg (1915-1991) was a sculptor and educator from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Greenberg first became interested in sculpture as a child while attending the Oak Lane Country Day School and meeting sculptor Boris Blai, who was working as the school's art teacher. Years later Greenberg discovered Blai had become the director of the Tyler School of Art at Temple University prompting him to transfer there from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he had been studying engineering. Greenberg graduated from the Tyler School of Art in 1939 as a member of the first class of Tyler's complete five-year program. He went on to study in Italy where he had his first solo show in Rome and exhibited in the twenty sixth Venice Biennale. In 1951, Greenberg was the winner of a prize from the Metropolitan Museum of Art's National Sculpture Exhibition. He returned to Philadelphia in 1953 and continued living and working in the city until his death in 1991.
Greenberg was known for his large public sculptures in Pennsylvania include Bear and Cub in the Philadelphia Zoo, the aluminum seal of Pennsylvania on the State Office Building, and Symbol of Progress located in the heart of Bethlehem, PA by the entrance of the Bethlehem Area Public Library. In addition to his studio work, Greenberg taught at the Oak Lane Country Day School, the Tyler School, the New Hope Fine Arts Workshop, the Philadelphia Museum of Art and the Fleisher Memorial.
Sam Green (1940-2011) was an art dealer who was an early champion of Pop art. Jane Tippett is a biographer writing a book on Green.
Green was a curator at the Institute of Contemporary Art at the University of Pennsylvania in the 1960s.
Sculptor, lecturer; New York, N.Y. Born in London, England; studied at the American Academy in Rome, and Ecole des Beaux-Arts.
Theatrical poster artist, lithographer; New York, N.Y. Grever was born in Cincinnati, Ohio, May 16, 1878. He studied art at the Cincinnati Art Academy under Frank Duveneck and Vincent Nowottny. He began his career in lithography in Cincinatti, eventually settling in New York City in 1904 and working for the H.C. Miner Lithographic Co. where he specialized in theatrical posters for 29 years.
Painter, dentist; Born Portland, Maine. Lived in New York and Nice, France from 1887-1915.
New York City sculptor and teacher Chaim Gross (1904-1991) is considered one of America's foremost sculptors, known for his semi-abstract bronzes celebrating the human form, and his pioneering work in direct wood carving. Gross taught for over fifty years at the Educational Alliance Art School and for forty years at the New School for Social Research.
Born in 1904 in Wolowa, Galicia, in what is now the Ukraine, Gross studied at the National Academy of Fine Arts in Budapest in 1919 and at the Kunstgewerbeschule in Vienna in 1920 before immigrating to New York in 1921. He attended the Lower East Side Educational Art School in New York City from 1921-1927 where he began lifelong friendships with artists Moses Soyer, Raphael Soyer, Peter Blume and other important twentieth century artists. Gross also studied with Elie Nadelman at the Beaux-Arts Institute of Design and Robert Laurent at the Art Students League. He began teaching at the Educational Alliance in 1927 where his students included Louise Nevelson.
Gross married Renee Nechin in 1932 and they had two children, Yehuda and Miriam (Mimi). Mimi Gross is a New York-based artist who was married to artist Red Grooms from 1963-1976.
Gross's first solo exhibition was held at Gallery 144 in New York City in 1932, and he began to develop a reputation as a major contemporary sculptor when he joined the Federal Art Project in 1934 and won a commission from the Treasury Department competition for art works for public buildings in 1936. His projects included relief panels for the Federal Trade Commission building in Washington, D. C., and a large-scale family group for the France Overseas and Finnish Buildings at the 1939 New York World's Fair. In 1938 Gross founded the Sculptors Guild with William Zorach and served as the guild's first president. His work began to be acquired by major American museums, including the Whitney Museum of American Art, and the Metropolitan Museum of Art which in 1939 awarded Gross a $3000 purchase prize for his wood sculpture of circus performer Lillian Leitzel.
In 1938 filmmaker Lewis Jacobs produced a thirty minute film, Tree Trunk to Head, of Gross carving a wood sculpture of Renee Gross in his studio. Lewis subsequently produced a seventeen minute film, The Sculptor Speaks, of Gross working in his studio in 1957. That same year Gross published an influential how-to book The Technique of Wood Sculpture, featuring photographs by Eliot Elisofon.
Much of Gross's early work focused on performers such as acrobats and dancers, family groups, and the mother and child bond. The bulk of his work was in wood, particularly hardwoods with a dark or pronounced grain. In the 1940s, after hearing that his brother Pincus and sister Sarah and her family had been murdered by the Nazis, Gross devoted time daily to sketching in his notebooks, producing a visual diary of the emotional trauma involved in processing their horrific fate and navigating his own grief. A collection of the drawings was published in Chaim Gross: Fantasy Drawings (Beechurst Press) in 1956. Gross carved My Sister Sarah – in Memoriam (no. 36) in 1947 and made the first of seven trips to Israel in 1949.
By the late 1950s Gross was working less in direct carving and was focusing primarily on modeling in plaster on an armature for casting in bronze. In 1957 and 1959 he traveled to Rome, Italy, and worked with the Nicci Foundry. Bella Fishko began representing Gross's work after establishing Forum Gallery in New York City in 1961. After 1947 Gross had begun to incorporate more Jewish iconography and Old Testament themes into his work, designing and casting large scale menorahs for synagogues such as Temple Sinai in Pittsburgh and the Menorah Home for the Aged in Brooklyn during the 1960s. He executed six bronze panels, entitled Six Days of Creation, for Temple Sharaay Tefila in New York City in 1964, and Ten Commandments for the International Synagogue at Kennedy Airport in 1970-1971. In 1973 Gross illustrated The Book of Isaiah, published by the Jewish Publication Society of America.
Gross was active in many art-related and philanthropic organizations throughout his life and was the recipient of numerous awards, honors, and honorary degrees. He was elected to membership of the National Institute of Arts and Letters in 1964, became an Academician at the National Academy of Design in 1983, and was inducted into the American Academy of Arts and Letters in 1984. A solo exhibition Chaim Gross: Sculpture and Drawings, was held at the Smithsonian's National Collection of Fine Arts in 1974. In 1977 Gross had three retrospective exhibitions at the Lowe Art Museum at the University of Miami, the Montclair Art Museum, and the Jewish Museum in New York City. Scholar Roberta Tarbell wrote a key essay on Gross for the Jewish Museum exhibition.
In addition to being a professor of sculpture and printmaking at the Educational Alliance Art School and the New School for Social Research, Gross taught at the Brooklyn Museum Art School, the art school of the Museum of Modern Art, and the Art Students League.
Gross had begun collecting African sculpture in the 1930s and was later introduced by art critic Frank Getlein to Warren M. Robbins, who established the Museum of African Art in 1964. Gross gave Robbins several pieces for the museum and connected him with other individuals whose private collections of African art Robbins learned would be key to the success of the museum. A selection from Gross's renowned collection was exhibited at the Worcester Art Museum in The Sculptor's Eye: The African Art Collection of Mr. and Mrs. Chaim Gross in 1976.
The Renee & Chaim Gross Foundation was created in 1974 at 526 LaGuardia Place, the historic Greenwich Village townhouse which Chaim and Renee Gross purchased in 1962 and renovated to include studio and gallery space with living quarters above. Three years after Gross's death in 1991, the Renee and Chaim Gross foundation opened to the public with a memorial exhibition of the sculptor's work. 526 LaGuardia Place continues to house an extensive collection of Gross's artwork, a photographic archive, and Gross's personal art collection. Gross's work is represented in major museums throughout the United States and abroad, with the Smithsonian's Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden housing the largest collection of his sculpture in a public museum.
Photographer, writer; New York, N.Y. and Provincetown, Mass.
Painter, writer; New York, N.Y. Produced primarily abstract paintings.
Art collector; New Orleans, La.
Karl Gruppe (1893-1982) was a sculptor who worked mainly in New York City.
Karl Heinrich Gruppe was born in Rochester, New York. He studied at the Royal Academy in Antwerp, Belgium with Franz Juris and with Karl Bitter at the Art Students League in New York. He was a sculptor in marble and bronze and held the position of Chief Sculptor of the Monument Restoration Project for the New York City Parks Department as part of the Public Works of Art Project.
In 1980 he was awarded the National Sculpture Society's "Special Medal of Honor". He was a member of the National Academy of Design (1968-1971) and served on the National Council of the National Academy of Design from 1956 to 1959, serving as Vice President in 1957. In 1950 he was elected academician. In 1960 Gruppe served as President of the National Sculpture Society and was appointed a member of the New York City Art Commission from 1944 to 1947. Away from the city he shared a studio with his brother Emile Gruppe in Rocky Neck, Massachusetts.
Karl Gruppe died in 1982 in Southold, New York.
Ramón Guerrero (1946-1993) was a photographer in Miami, Florida. Guerrero was born in Camaguey, Cuba and came to the United States in 1962. After a brief stint in New York where he worked as a photographer's assistant at Mayo Studios, he returned to Miami in 1976 and opened his own studio. He is known for his series of still lifes and nudes that explore themes of life, death, time, and religion, as well as portraits of notable Cuban American artists.
Guerrero was the recipient of a grant from the National Endowment for the Arts, the Advertising Club of New York's Andy Award, and a Cintas Fellowship in 1990. He participated in the exhibitions Cuba-USA: The First Generation, Islands in the Stream: Seven Cuban American Artists, and Myths and Realities. Guerrero died in Miami in 1993.
Painter; New York, N.Y.
Marcel Guiot was an art dealer and publisher in Paris, France. Heintzelman was an etcher, painter, museum curator, lecturer, and writer on graphic artists whom Guiot represented in Paris, ca. 1925-1940. Heintzelman settled in Marblehead, Me., though he frequently travelled abroad.
Ernst Haas (1921-1986) was an Austrian-American photographer and photojournalist who lived in New York City, N.Y. and was the president of Magnum Photos.
Richard Haas (b. 1936) is a mural painter of "architecture of illusion," his term describing the trompe l'oeil architectural subjects for which he is best known. His work as a printmaker also focuses on architecture, with iconic buildings of New York and other cities serving as subject matter. Hass is also an educator who has taught painting and printmaking at University of Minnesota, Michigan State University, Bennington College in Vermont, and School of Visual Arts in New York City.
During World War II, the Haas family moved from Spring Green, Wisconsin to Milwaukee. As a teenager, Richard spent two summers working with his great uncle, a master stone mason employed by Frank Lloyd Wright at Taliesin. He proved to be less interested in stonework than in exploring Wright's library and watching the young architects draw. He considered becoming an architect, but eventually concluded the artistic side of architecture was more attractive than the day to day work of an architect.
After graduating from the University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee (B.S., 1959), Hass worked as an art teacher in a Milwaukee high school. He attended graduate classes at University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee where visiting artist Jack Tworkov was his teacher. At the University of Minnesota (M.F.A., 1964), Haas studied with Peter Busa and Malcolm Myers. As an assistant professor at Michigan State University from 1964 to 1968, Haas's colleagues included Angelo Ippolito and Charles Pollock, and he met a number of important artists and critics who visited the campus. Haas moved to New York City in 1968 and soon accepted a part-time position teaching printmaking at Bennington College. He commuted weekly between New York and Vermont for the next decade.
During the 1960s Haas was a Color-field painter. He also continued making etchings and lithographs, and by 1970 several galleries were selling his architectural prints. His first outdoor mural, painted in the So Ho section of New York City in 1975, attracted attention and commissions followed. Mural commissions include: Boston Architectural Center (1977); Edison Bothers Store, Inc., St. Louis (1984); Home Savings of America, multiple locations in Florida and California (1990-1991); City of Huntsville, Texas (1991); Federal Building and Courthouse, Kansas City, Kansas (1994); and Yorkville Mural, New York City (2004.)
Haas, who began exhibiting while still a student, has participated in a large number of group shows and enjoyed many solo exhibitions. He was elected a National Academician, National Academy of Design, was granted a Guggenheim Fellowship, and has been a MacDowell Fellow. Among other honors, Haas has received the American Institute of Architects Medal of Honor, New York City Municipal Art Society Award, Doris C. Freedman Award for Public Art, and the Jimmy Ernst Award of the American Academy of Arts and Letters.
Mr. Haas, who works in New York City, is represented by David Findlay, Jr. Gallery. His wife, Katherine Sokolnikoff, is a sculptor and arts administrator; they live in Yonkers, New York.
Still-life painter, art instructor; New Haven, Conn. Haberle was apprenticed to a lithography and engraving company during the 1870s, studied at the National Academy of Design between 1884 and 1885 and later founded the New Haven Sketch Club, where he also taught. He specialized in trompe l'oeil still-life paintings, producing most of this work between 1887 and 1900. Deteriorating eyesight caused him to paint broader, more traditional still-lifes and landscapes in later life.
Sir Francis Seymour Haden (1818-1910) was an etcher in London, England.
Dimitri Hadzi (1921-2006) was an Greek American sculptor who lived and worked in Rome from the 1950s to 1975, and then in Cambridge, Massachusetts from 1975 to 2006. Born to Greek immigrants, Hadzi attended Brooklyn Technical High School before enlisting in the Army Air Force in 1942. After the World War II, Hadzi studied painting and sculpture at Cooper Union and graduated with honors in 1950. He was awarded a Fulbright fellowship to study at the Polytechnion, Athens, Greece, and subsequently moved to Rome where he remained until the mid-1970s. Hadzi worked mostly with stone and bronze, from which he created semi-abstract shapes and structures drawn from his Greek heritage. His work was selected for the Venice Biennale in 1956, and and his first solo-exhibition came two years later at the Galeria Schneider, Rome, Italy. Throughout his career, Hadzi held solo exhibitions at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, The Philips Collection, Athens Gallery in Greece, Rikugie Gallery in Japan, and many others. His group exhibitions include Recent Sculptor USA (1959), Museum of Modern Art, New York; Annual Exhibition, The Whitney Museum (1961); Seven Sculptors at Harvard, Harvard University (1983); and American Academy of Arts & Letters Centennial Portfolio, Pace Prints, New York (1998). Hadzi's public commissions include those at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (1963), St. Paul's Church, Rome, Italy (1966-1976), Dallas Center, Texas (1980). His artwork is held in permanent collections of the Hirshhorn Museum and Scultpure Garden, Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, Hakone Museum of Sculpture in Japan, and the Montreal Museum of Art, among others. Hadzi was professor of Visual and Environmental Studies at Harvard University from 1975-1989, and was named Professor Emeritus in 1989.
Ernst Halberstadt (1910-1987) was a German-born painter and muralist based in Cambridge, Mass.
Sculptor, writer, and instructor at the Art Students League; New York, N.Y. Born 1925.
Jean Halpert-Ryden (b. 1919) is a painter married to painter, sculptor, and designer Edward Ryden (b. 1922). They were primarily based in San Francisco, California. Jean Halpert-Rydern was born 1919 in Brooklyn, N.Y. and attended Brooklyn College. She studied art in New York City and in a collective of young artists under the leadership of painter and stage designer Mol Solotaroff. Her first exhibition was at the Norlyst Gallery in 1946. She married artist Edward Ryden in 1947. After two years in Boulder, Colo., they moved to the San Francisco Bay Area.
Painter and sculptor; Wilmington, Delaware.
Marine and landscape painter; Belfast, Ireland and Philadelphia, Pa. Moved to Philadelphia in 1834.
Edith Hamlin (1902-1992) was a painter and muralist from San Francisco, Calif. Worked for the Federal Art Project of the Works Progress Administration during the Depression.
Hella Hammid (1921-1992) was a German American photographer in Los Angles, California. Hammid was friends with ceramicists Otto and Gertrud Natzler. After Gertrud's death in 1971, Otto married Gail Reynolds.
Abraham Hankins (1900-1963) was a teacher and painter in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Two of Hankins' paintings were purchased by Dr. Albert Barnes.
The Harmon Foundation (established 1922) was created by William E. Harmon and funded playgrounds, nursing programs, and vocational guidance for students. In 1925 the foundation began presenting awards to African American individuals in numerous fields, including art. In addition to presenting awards, the Harmon Foundation organized exhibitions for Black artists to gain further recognition for their artwork.
Russell Lynes (1910-1991) joined Harper's Magazine as an assistant editor in 1944, and served as managing editor from 1947-1967. As an essayist, social historian, photographer, and arbiter of taste, Lynes served informally as art editor and corresponded with many artists regarding submissions to the magazine.
In addition to gaining renown for the thoughtful articles published in Harper's under his stewardship, Lynes was known for his satirical commentary on American tastes and preferences, particularly in architecture and decoration, in such books as Highbrow, Lowbrow, Middlebrow (1949), The Tastemakers (1954), and later works including The Art-Makers of Nineteenth Century America (1970).
Patty Harris is an art writer and reviewer. Harris, along with writers Calvin Reid and Janet Gillespie created, edited and published the art newsletter 108: An East Village Review in New York, N.Y. documenting art -related activities in the East Village, N.Y.
Curator, museum director, J.B. Speed Art Museum, Louisville, Ky., 1946-1962; deputy director Henry Francis DuPont Winterthur Museum, Delaware, 1962-1967; director of collections, Henry Ford Museum, Michigan, 1967-1971.
Landscape painter, New York, N.Y.; b. 1882; d. 1960.
Lynda Roscoe Hartigan (1950- ) is deputy director for collections and research and chief innovation officer at the Royal Ontario Museum, Toronto, Canada. Hartigan was formally chief curator at the Smithsonian American Art Museum, Washington, D.C. and developed the museum's American folk art and African American art collections.
Lynda Hartigan is an art historian and museum curator; Washington, D.C. Perkins Harnly is best known for his imaginative watercolor renderings of Victorian interiors for the Index of American Design. Harnly grew up in Nebraska. From childhood he was fascinated by the decorative and popular arts, especially by late Victorian design and domestic architecture. Through travel and self-education, he broadened his knowledge of design and developed his skill as a watercolorist. The Index of American Design commissioned him to compose watercolor renderings of American interiors decorated and furnished in the Victorian style. After the dissolution of the Federal Project in 1943, he worked as a sketch artist for the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer studio in Hollywood.
Painter; Ellsworth, Me. Hartley exhibited at Alfred Stieglitz's gallery 291 in 1909, the Armory Show of 1913, and was a member of the Blue Rider Group.
Art critic, painter and writer; Andover, New Hampshire and Banning, California. Author of several books on American art.
Painter and printmaker; New York. Middle name is occasionally spelled Stanly. b. 1921. d. 2007.
American sculptor; lived mostly in Paris. Primarily sculpted animals, and is well-known for his sculpture of Man o'war. He is the son of painter William Stanely Haseltine (1835-1900).
Painter, etcher, lithographer, illustrator, writer. Born in Connecticut; worked in art department of NEW YORK AMERICAN. Studied in Paris, returned to New York, created caricatures and posters. Famous for portrait of Joan and Jock Whitney. Settled in Maine.
Sylvia Shaw Judson (1897-1978) was a sculptor and writer active in Chicago, Illinois. Her work Bird Girl received popular attention after her death.
Sylvia Shaw Judson, who went by Sylvia Haskins in her personal life, was the daughter of prominent architect Howard Van Doren Shaw and Frances Shaw. She studied with Albin Polasek at the Art Institute of Chicago and went to Paris in 1920 to continue her studies under Antoine Bourdelle at the Academy Grande Chaumiere.
Judson's sculpture often depicts children and animals. Notable works include Little Gardener which was included in Rachel "Bunny" Mellon's design for the White House Rose Garden, and Bird Girl in Bonaventure Cemetery in Savannah, Georgia.
As an adult, Judson joined the Society of Friends and became an active participant in the church. She died in 1978 in Lake Forest, Illinois.
Found are biographical sketches and resumes, and artwork by Sylvia Judson and by J. Stoyanvoitch. Of note is a painted sketch of Bird Girl which is unsigned.
Judson's correspondence primary relates to business and is with artists, foundries and studios, friends, galleries, institutions, and museums. Correspondents include Arden Gallery, Art Exhibition Galleries--Mandel Brothers, Art Institute of Chicago, Dayton Art Institute, Grace Enthof, Erkins Studios, John Asmussen and Sons, Albin Polasek, Mario Ubaldi, Ferruccio Vitale, Bernard Walsh, Helen Ware, The White House, Whitney Museum of American Art, Wheeler Williams, and William Zorach. Also found are typescripts of letters sent by Judson to her family while she was in Paris in the early 1920s.
Found are writings by Judson including drafts of articles, lectures, speeches, early writings from her school days, and notes. Writings by others consist of reviews and criticisms of Judson's sculptures.
Painter, printmaker; New York, N.Y.
Scientist and art administrator; Bloomfield Hills, Mich. Ernest Seton was a craftsman from Santa Fe, N.M.
Artists; St. Paul, Minn. Clement Bernard Haupers was born in St. Paul and was employed as a secretary by the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railroad from 1917-1920. In 1918 he studied art and joined Clara Mairs' Art League of St. Paul. Clara Gardner Mairs was born in Hastings, Minn. and received art training at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts. During the late 1920s, Haupers and Mairs traveled to Europe and studied in Paris and Northern Africa. In 1929, they returned to St. Paul and established studios. Between 1931-1943, Haupers was involved in many of the federal government's art programs, including teaching at the St. Paul Arts and Crafts Center. In 1935, he was appointed the Minnesota state director of the WPA-FAP. Haupers later returned to teaching and art restoration.
Martin Johnson Heade was born in Lumberville, Pennsylvania, in 1819. He studied art under painter Edward Hicks, and began his career as a portrait painter. After traveling abroad and living in Rome for two years, he made his artistic debut in 1841 at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts. Heade began exhibiting regularly in 1848, after another trip to Europe, and became an itinerant artist until he settled in New York in 1859. In the early 1860s he turned to painting landscapes and seascapes, in which he could explore spatial structure and the effects of light. During this period he became friends with fellow landscape painter, Frederic Edwin Church, one of his few friends in the art world, and with whom he exchanged letters for over thirty years. Besides landscapes, Heade painted many still-lifes of flowers. After trips to South and Central America in 1863-1864, 1866, and 1870, he began painting hummingbirds and orchids in tropical settings. Heade was never fully accepted by the New York art establishment and for a period of time resumed his itinerant lifestyle. In 1883 he settled in Saint Augustine, Florida and married. He also found a patron, Henry Morrison Flagler, to commission his work, and continued to paint still-lifes, swamp scenes, and hummingbirds, until his death in 1904.
Portrait and historical painter. Healy painted in the U.S. and Europe.
James R. "Jimmy" Hedges III (1942-2014), was an artist, art collector and dealer of Outsider Art and Folk art in Tennessee and Georgia. Hedges established the Rising Fawn Folk Art Gallery, Lookout Mountain, Georgia.
Born into a prominent family from Chattanooga, Jimmy Hedges was a lifelong philanthropist as a trustee of his family's Tonya Memorial Foundation. His true vocation, however, was as an artist, collector, and dealer of outsider art and as an advocate for self-taught artists. Hedges discovered his love of wood carving as a teenager, when he created song birds, and returned to making art at age forty. Using a chain saw, he carved sculptures of Southerners he had encountered in his travels, including artists. His colleagues in this sector of the fine art craft world were predominantly southern African American self-taught painters, sculptors, potters, and carvers. Befriending them and collecting their work led Hedges to establish Rising Fawn Folk Art Gallery in 1993, building a gallery space in the early 2000s on his 500-acre farm in Lookout Mountain, Georgia.
An unconventional art dealer, Hedges would hand-deliver work to collectors' homes, driving his truck through backroads and stopping along the way to visit with artists and purchase more works to sell. He was an active presence at the Outsider Art Fair and self-taught artist exhibitions throughout the U.S., as well as at Slotin Folk Art auctions and prison auctions. His aim was to improve the economic condition of fellow artists and raise their profiles among curators and critics. Hedges' development of an archive was essential to this goal.
Painter and sculptor; San Geronimo, Calif.; d. Dec. 17, 2003 at age 75.
Etcher, museum curator, painter, teacher; Marblehead, Massachusetts.
Vivika and Otto Heino were ceramicists and educators active primarily in California, New Hampshire, and Rhode Island.
Vivika Heino (1910-1995) was born Vivika Place in Caledonia, New York. She attended Rochester Normal School and took a sculpture class, a drawing class at the Memorial Art Gallery, and a design class at the University of Rochester Extension. She then attended Colorado College of Education where she received her BA and became involved with puppeteering. By 1934 she had moved to California, where she apprenticed with a bookbinder, Mr. Bitteroff, making candlesticks, tin trays, and other small crafts. She also apprenticed with wood carver Charlie Sayers in Carmel, carving picture frames and furniture for about seven months, before learning weaving at Swedish Applied Arts in San Francisco.
While at Swedish Applied Arts, Place worked and became friends with Harry Dixon, Armank Harranian, Margaret Gravandar, and Bill Saroyan. She also found time to work as a puppeteer with Ralph Chesse and the Works Progress Administration. She also began studying pottery with Manuel Eugene Jalanivich at California University of Fine Arts, and subsequently focused primarily on pottery for the rest of her career.
Place began working with Glen Lukens at the University of Southern California in 1940. Lukens and Dr. Morley, director of the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, recommended her for a scholarship at New York State College of Ceramics in Alfred, New York, from which she graduated in 1944. She subsequently took a teaching position at the League of New Hampshire Arts and Crafts where she met Otto Heino.
One of twelve siblings, Otto Heino (1915-2009) was born in East Hampton, Connecticut, to a market gardening family of Finnish descent. The family moved to New Hampshire to sell milk when Otto was 12, and around that time he began apprenticing as a wood turner for Louie Harr. Heino was then drafted into the military and became a gunner in the United States Air Force. Between flying twenty-five missions in Europe, Heino took classes in England, made jewelry, did wood working, traveled to museums, and met individual potters and silversmiths. After visiting Leach's Pottery in Cornwall, and investigating pottery in other parts of Europe, Otto was determined to study pottery on the GI Bill on his return to the United States.
Otto and Vivika met while Otto was a student at the League of New Hampshire Arts and Crafts, where Vivian was an instructor. They married in 1950 and went on to establish their reputations as artists and educators by widely exhibiting their work, leading workshops, conducting studio open houses, consulting on film productions, and teaching at various schools and institutions. They both taught at the University of Southern California, the Chouinard Art Institute, and Rhode Island School of Design; Vivika also taught at the Sheridan School of Design in Ontario, Canada, and New England College in Henniker, New Hampshire. They operated The Potter, a studio and retail store in Ojai, California, from 1973 to 1995.
The work of Otto and Vivika Heino can be found in the collections of many museums, including the Smithsonian's Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum, the Long Beach Museum of Art, the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, and the Ariana Museum, in Geneva, Switzerland.
John Held, 1889-1958, was an illustrator, Westport, Conn. and Palm Beach, Fla. He was most famous for his Jazz Age era illustrations for the New Yorker. He also produced watercolor landscapes and sculpture. [Not to be confused with John Held, Jr., b. 1947, associated with Mail Art]
Art historian, educator, Bennington, Vt. Eminent scholar of Rubens. Worked as an advisor to art collectors, including J. Paul Getty.
Muralist, painter; San Antonio, Tex. Also known as Bertha Louise Hellman Rublee. Worked on the Public Works of Art Project of the U.S. Treasury Department.
Hellman, a writer, wrote about A. E. Gallatin on several occasions in the New Yorker magazine. Gallatin formed one of America's earliest modern art collections, and displayed it as Gallery of Living Art (later Museum of Living Art) at NYU. It moved to the Philadelphia Museum of Art in 1943.
Painter, illustrator; New York, N.Y.
Glen Cooper Henshaw (1885-1946) was a painter who was primarily based in New York City. Henshaw was born in Windfall, Indiana, and he went on to live and work in Paris, London, Baltimore and New York. He returned in Indiana 1941, where he continued to paint until his death in 1946.
Museum at Cornell University. Founded 1953. Formerly Andrew Dickson White Museum of Art.
Arts foundation, Washington, D.C. Supported "visual artists in mid-career." Founded in honor of Hereward Lester Cooke, an artist and Curator of Painting at the National Gallery of Art.
Heritage Preservation (established 1982-2015) was an organization in Washington, D.C. working to preserve the nation's heritage for future generations through innovative leadership, education, and programs. In 2006, Heritage Preservation launched Rescue Public Murals, a program established to bring public attention to U.S. Murals, document their unique artistic and historic contributions, and secure the expertise and support to save them. Projects included mural assessments, restoration, creating written best practices for mural creation, advocacy, and documentation via digital photography. Heritage Preservation was established under the name National Institute for the Conservation of Cultural Property.
British landscape and portrait painter, sculptor and graphic artist. Founded and directed school of art at Bushey, 1883-1904. Assumed title and prefix "von" when raised to noble rank by the Emperor of Germany in 1899. Edith Ashford came from the United States to study with him in England, and then remained there as a landscape painter. John Herkomer lived for approximately 30 years in the United States and returned to Bushey to live with his brother.
Painter; Rockport, Massachusetts. Was an instructor of Design at Harvard University during the 1940s, an administrator at the Rhode Island School of Design during the 1950s and 1960s, and the Acting Chairman of the Department of Design in the College of Environmental Design at the University of California, Berkeley, during the 1970s.
(Grace) Elizabeth "Beth" Hertz (1920- ) is an artist and was a student of William Zorach's at the Art Students League in New York. Hertz maintained a relationship with William and Marguerite, as well as with their children Tessim and Dahlov. Following her time as Zorach's student, Hertz visited their summer home at Robinhood Farm in Georgetown, Maine, where she assisted in daily chores while receiving critiques on her artwork. Into the 1950s, visits were more infrequent but Hertz still looked to Zorach for advice on her art career and frequently exchanged news about their families and careers. In 1951 Elizabeth Hertz facilitated William Zorach's guest lecture at the Dayton Art Institute Commencement Dinner.
Hertz also studied the work of Stanton Macdonald-Wright and wrote her MFA thesis "The Continuing Role of Stanton-MacDonald Wright and Synchronism in Modern Painting, "Ohio University, 1968.
Wilna Hervey was born in 1894 and grew up in Far Rockaway, New York. She met Nan Mason (1896-1982), daughter of silent film actor Dan Mason, while on production of The Toonerville Trolley silent film comedies in 1920. They were lifelong companions until Hervey's death in 1979.
As a young woman in the late 1910s, Hervey took art lessons at the Art Students League in New York City, Winold Reiss' studio at 4 Christopher Street, New York City, and during the summer of 1918 in Woodstock, New York. In 1919, she joined the Betzwood Studios in Audubon, Pennsylvania to play the role of "The Powerful Katrinka" in The Toonerville Trolley, a series of silent films based on Fontaine Fox's comic strip. Co-star Dan Mason, who played the Skipper, took Hervey under his wing, and Hervey lived with the Masons while filming the series. After The Toonerville Trolley series ended in 1921, Dan and Nan Mason traveled to Hollywood to start a new company, and Wilna followed shortly after, taking the train across the country in early 1922. The new endeavor, Plum Street Comedies, began at the Paul Gerson Pictures Corporation in San Francisco and was based on The Toonerville Trolley series; the film crew included the young Frank Capra. The Plum Street Comedies were in production for only one year, 1922-1923.
Around 1919-1920, Hervey's father bought Wilna a small studio in Bearsville, New York. From 1922-1929 Hervey and Nan Mason split their time between painting and farming in Woodstock, New York, and pursuing acting while living with Dan Mason in California. In 1926-1927, the women traveled to Europe and North Africa together to see museums, art, and architecture.
After the death of Dan Mason in 1929, Hervey and Nan Mason made Bearsville their permanent home. Beginning in the late 1950s, Hervey and Mason began spending winters in Anna Maria, Florida and summers in New York. Hervey and Mason achieved success as artists in the 1960s - Hervey as an enamel painter, and Mason as a painter and photographer.
Wilna Hervey passed away in 1979, and Nan Mason died in 1982.
Sources consulted include "The Biggest Girl" by Joseph P. Eckhardt (http://faculty.mc3.edu/jeckhard/biggestgirlarticle/thebiggestgirl.html).
Julia P. Herzberg (194?-) is a curator, art historian and editor in New York, N.Y. Herzberg specializes in Latin American contemporary art. Her work is centered on the research, scholarship, and cultural production of artistic practices within interdisciplinary global contexts. She has curated numerous exhibitions throughout North America and Latin America.
Magda Heuermann (1868-1962) was a miniature portrait painter active in Chicago, Illinois. Heuermann studied at the Art Institute of Chicago with F.H.C. Sammons and for over three years in Germany with Franz von Lenbach, Franz von Stuck, Roth Deurr, and Max Doerner. She donated 80 of her miniatures to the Illinois Institute of Technology in 1950.
Aldro T. Hibbard (1886-1972) was an American landscape painter who worked primarily in oil. He studied at the Massachusetts College of Art and Design and later at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. Hibbard assisted in founding the Rockport Art Association and served as its president for 20 years. Hibbard also created and taught at the Hibbard School of Painting in Rockport, Massachusetts.
Albert Hickman (1915-1990) was an illustrator from Houston, Tex.
Patricia Hickman (1941- ) is a fiber artist and sculptor in Berkeley, California, Kailua, Hawaii, and Haverstraw, New York. Lillian Elliott (1930 -1994) and Joanne Segal Brandford (1933- 1994) were fiber artists in Honolulu, Hawaii.
Painter; Taos, New Mexico. Born Shelbyville, Indiana.
Painter; San Francisco, CA.
Painter, instructor; Paris, Kentucky and Paris, France. Hill studied and lived in Paris, knew Rosa Bonheur and painted in the Barbizon. She did a series of portraits of Bourbon County, Ky. judges, and taught china painting as well. She lived in Paris, Ky. from 1900 until her death.
WPA painter and sculptor, administrator; New York City.
Painter, instructor; Austin, Texas.
Sculptor; Bryn Mawr, Pa. d. 1991.
Painter, portrait painter, etcher, sculptor; Boston, Mass.
Painter, teacher.
Painter, sculptor; New York, N.Y.
Illustrator, art editor, and print dealer; Boston, Mass. Holman was born on Prince Edward Island, Canada, and began work in the bookselling and publishing business in Canada. He moved to Boston in 1889, where he attended Cowles Art School and studied with the painter Charles Woodbury. Holman travelled extensively and contributed illustrations and articles to various popular magazines and worked as art editor of New England Magazine and the Youth's Companion. In 1915, he established a print department at Goodspeed's Book Shop, leaving in 1930 to open his own firm, Holman's Print Shop, where he was joined by his son, Richard Bourne Holman, who ran the firm after Louis' death in 1939 until 1977.
Elizabeth Basye Gilmore Holt (1905-1987) was an art historian, writer, educator, and administrator based in Washington, D.C. and Georgetown, Maine.
Painter, illustrator; New York, N.Y. and Prouts Neck, Me. Illustrator for Harper's Weekly; artist-correspondent during Civil War; moved to Prouts Neck, Me., 1884.
Architect; New York, N.Y.
Hooks-Epstein Galleries, Inc. was founded in Houston, Texas, in 1969, by sister-in-laws Geri Hooks and Evan Epstein. Later, Geri Hooks' husband, Charles, joined the business in 1974 around the same time that Epstein left the gallery. Hooks-Epstein began with exhibitions of prints and antique objects, but quickly moved on to specialize in works on paper and ultimately included fine art glass as well. Past artists shown in the gallery include Robert Pruitt, Kermit Oliver, Ward Saunders, Mark Greenwalt, Clara Hoag, Edward Lane McCartney, Kingsley Powers Onyeiwu, Toots Zynsky, Alex Gabriel Bernstein, and Bertil Vallien. Hooks-Epstein Galleries is among the longest running art galleries in Texas.
Charles C. Horn was an art instructor at the School of Art and Design of the Rochester Institute of Technology, Rochester, New York, for 33 years, retiring in 1954.
Hovannes was an instructor of sculpture at the Art Students League of New York since 1946. Studied at the Rhode Island School of Design, received Guggenheim Fellowship in 1940.
Blanche Phillips Howard, a sculptor, was married to John Langley Howard, an illustrator. They lived in Bolinas, California and with other members of the Howard family became an influential force in the San Francisco Bay Area art scene. Blanche died in 1976.
After twenty-five years as president of Arco Company, his family's industrial paint and varnish manufacturing business in Cleveland, Howard Wise (1903-1989) sold his interest in the business and began to pursue his own artistic interests. The Howard Wise Gallery of Present Day Painting and Sculpture opened in Cleveland in 1957 and operated for the next five years. It first showed School of Paris and New York painters and also sold prints. With the exception of a few collectors and loyal customers, Clevelanders did not appreciate Wise's efforts to bring the best new art from all over the world to the city. The Cleveland Plain Dealer ran several editorials ridiculing modern art in general and Howard Wise and his gallery in particular. Attendance was poor and Wise decided to relocate to New York.
After a year of searching for a suitable location and renovating the space, Howard Wise Gallery opened at 50 West 57th Street in 1960. The gallery generated excitement among visitors and artists, and sales and attendance were much better than in Cleveland. After closing the Cleveland gallery in 1961 Wise never again returned to his native city. Despite being well received and conducting significantly more business in New York, the gallery was not a great financial success. Between 1962 and 1965, art consultant Douglas MacAgy, a friend and the former director of the Dallas Museum of Art, worked with Wise in running the gallery. Although the critics were not always favorably impressed, Howard Wise Gallery had a significant following and made important contributions through its support of the use of technology in art, specifically kinetic and light sculpture and the video art movement.
By the late 1960s, Wise recognized that a gallery setting was not suitable for many of the new art forms. He closed Howard Wise Gallery in 1970 so that he could focus his energy and resources on exploring the best way to support environmental sculpture, political work, and video art. Wise founded Electronic Arts Intermix in 1971. Originally an artist-run umbrella organization, today Electronic Arts Intermix is a non-profit videotape distribution service and editing facility, that has amassed an important and highly regarded video art collection.
Isabella Howland (1895-1974) lived and worked in New York City. She drew portraits, painted on canvas, sketched on paper, and sculpted caricature busts of people in the art world. She wrote that she could do anything with her hands.
Howland was born in Brookline, Massachusetts. From her youth she knew she wanted to be an artist. She had her earliest artistic training at age 16. Her art education included time at the Boston Museum School and the Art Students League in New York City. She completed her secondary education in France and Germany, moved back to the United States afterwards, and in 1920 travelled again to Europe. In 1922 she settled in Greenwich Village and spent summers in Woodstock to paint landscapes and still-lifes. She actively painted in the 1920s, and had three shows in 1927, 1929, and 1931. During the Depression she worked for the Public Works of Art Project and the Works Progress Administration. In 1934 she married Armando Zegri, and they divorced in 1937. While they were married they owned a club in the West Village named The Café Latino. She began teaching at a private school in the early 1940s while dealing with some personal difficulties. She found religion which comforted her as she dealt with her mother's declining health and her sister's waning mental state.
Howland had many friends in the art world and regularly received requests to exhibit at museums. She became known as an accomplished portrait artist, and she was commissioned many times to execute drawings or sculptures. She dabbled in writing and illustrating stories, and produced a set of 33 Christmas cards featuring two monks.
Painter; Ukiah, California.
Art museum; Yonkers, New York. Founded 1924.
William J. Hughes (1863-1938) was a collector of William Harnett paintings. Hughes was an Assistant United States Solicitor General and was employed at the Justice Department for nearly 49 years, a large part of the time as an attorney.
Wood was a ceramist; Ojai, Calif. Brigadier General Hugh Huglin was a close and longtime friend of Wood's.
Mr. Husband was initially with the army, dealing with artillary design and production. When he retired in 1961, he moved to California and began his second career as an artist.
Sculptor, painter, craftsperson; Capistrano Beach, Calif.
Portrait, miniature and landscape painter, and teacher; New York City. Inman was instrumental in the founding of the National Academy of Design, and was its Vice-President from 1826-1831.
In 1957, Walter Hopps (1932-2005) and Edward Kienholz (1927-1994) opened the contemporary art Ferus Gallery on North La Cienega Boulevard in Los Angeles, California. Kienholz sold his share to Irving Blum (b. 1930) one year later. Hopps left in 1962 to become curator and, later, director of the Pasadena Art Museum. Ferus Gallery closed in 1966 and Irving Blum maintained sole ownership and changed the gallery's name to Irving Blum Gallery.
 Ferus Gallery was the first gallery in the Los Angeles area to show contemporary American art, and focused heavily on contemporary Southern California artists, such as John Altoon, Larry Bell, Billy Al Bengston, Wallace Berman, Robert Irwin, Craig Kauffman, Ed Kienholz, Ed Moses, Richard Ruben, among many others. Likewise, Ferus Gallery helped to solidify the reputations of many established New York artists, including Roy Lichtenstein, Jasper Johns, Frank Stella, Richard Diebenkorn, Andy Warhol, and others.
The inaugural exhibition at the Ferus Gallery was "Objects on the New Landscape Demanding of the Eye" (March 15 - April 11, 1957), a group show including the work of Frank Lobdell, Jay DeFeo, Craig Kauffman, Richard Diebenkorn, John Altoon and Clyfford Still. Los Angeles artists who had their first solo shows at the gallery included: Wallace Berman (1957), Billy Al Bengston (1958), Ed Moses (1958), Robert Irwin (1959), John Mason (1959), Kenneth Price (1960), Llyn Foulkes (1962), Larry Bell (1962) and Ed Ruscha (1963).
In 1957 the gallery was temporarily closed after LAPD officers arrested and charged Wallace Berman with obscenity over work in his exhibition. It was his first and last solo show.
In 1962 "Andy Warhol: Campbell's Soup Cans" was Andy Warhol's first solo pop art exhibition and the first exhibition of the Soup Cans. Five of the canvases sold for $100 each, but Blum bought them back to keep the set intact.
Irving Blum designed many of the exhibition announcements for the gallery with a graphic aesthetic.
In 2007, "The Cool School" was released, a documentary film about the Ferus Gallery and its eccentric artists.
Painter, art instructor, and set decorator. Born in Russian Siberia to a Siberian Cossack family. His father was the military governor of Turkestan. During the Russian civil war, the family fled to Tientsin, China. Immigrating to the United States in 1922, Ivanov-Rinov became interested in art and studied with Alexander Iacovleff at the School of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston during the 1930s. He designed stage sets for the University Players in the early 1930s and for the St. Louis Community Playhouse from the late 1930s until the early 1940s. Settling in Dublin, New Hampshire, with his second wife, Muriel, he befriended painter Alexander James and conducted art classes in Dublin and Keene, New Hampshire.
William Mills Ivins, Jr. (1881-1961), a lawyer, first became interested in collecting prints and illustrated books while an undergraduate at Harvard. He studied the history of printmaking through self-directed reading, by looking at prints in the major European libraries and museums, and tried his hand at many of the printmaking processes. While practicing law, he wrote articles and organized some small exhibitions of prints as early as 1908. In 1916, the Metropolitan Museum of Art appointed its first Curator of Prints to organize a Department of Prints and Drawings and to develop its small existing collection. Upon the recommendation of Paul J. Sachs who was unable to accept the position, Ivins was selected. He held the post until his retirement some thirty years later.
During his tenure as Curator of Prints, Ivins became one of the most highly-respected individuals in the profession. Under Ivins the collection grew in scope, size, and quality; he acquired materials by cultivating potential donors, and through systematic purchase of pieces not likely to come into the collection by bequest. The department's active exhibition schedule included some especially noteworthy shows, such as The Arts of the Book in 1924.
Ivins was knowledgeable and shared information by writing several books on prints and the history of printmaking, and by writing large numbers of articles for the educated layman. His articles often highlighted items in the permanent collection, and frequently appeared in the museum's Bulletin. He was interested in perspective, psychology of perception, aesthetics, mathematics and modern philosophy, and wrote on these topics, as well.
He was an accomplished speaker and was in much demand as a lecturer. Of particular note were his series on Illustrated Books of the Renaissance at the Morgan Library in 1936, and the 1950 Lowell Lectures (subsequently published under the title Prints and Visual Communication).
In addition to his curatorial duties, Ivins served as Assistant Director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art between 1933 and 1938, and was its Acting Director from 1938 until 1940. Francis Henry Taylor was appointed Director in 1940, and Ivins was named to the newly created post of Counselor; failure to attain the directorship was a bitter disappointment, which many attributed to his lack of tact and generally difficult disposition.
Ivins retired in 1946, and continued to write and publish until the mid-1950's. During this period he was awarded an honorary doctorate by Yale University (1946), made an honorary fellow of the Metropolitan Museum of Art (1946), named a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (1950), and invited to deliver the annual lectures at the Lowell Institute (1950). He died at the age of eighty in 1961, after several years of declining health.
Ivins' private collection of prints and illustrated books, which he had continued to amass through the 1930's, was partially dispersed during his lifetime through gifts to the Metropolitan Museum and to a number of university and special libraries. The portion remaining in his estate was sold at auction by Parke Bernet between 1962 and 1964.
1881 born to William Mills Ivins and Emma Yard Ivins, Flatbush, N.Y.
1890-1893 attended King's School, Stamford, Conn.
1896 trip to South America with father
1897 graduation from St. Paul's School, Concord, N.H.
1901 graduation from Harvard (A.B.)
1901-1902 travelled in Europe with Paul Haviland, and studied economics at University of Munich
1902-1904 employed by The World's Work, writing articles on economic and artistic subjects
1907 graduation from Columbia School of Law
1907-1916 practiced law in New York City: Ivins, Wolff and Houget for New York Public Service Commission, 1907-1908; Strong and Cadwallader, 1908-1909; Cravath, Henderson, and der Gersdorff, 1909-1916
1908 arranged first exhibition of prints, Keppel & Co,
1910 marriage to Florence Wyman, an illustrator
1916 appointed first Curator of Prints, Metropolitan Museum of Art
c. 1927-1935 served on editorial board of Metropolitan Museum Studies
1933-1938 Assistant Director, Metropolitan Museum of Art
1937 Morgan Library Lectures
1938 Honorary Curator of Prints and Drawings, Morgan Library
1938-1940 Acting Director, Metropolitan Museum of Art (Note: Mr. Ivins continued to act as Curator of Prints during periods when he was assigned other major administrative responsibilities at the museum)
1940 Counselor, Metropolitan Museum of Art
1946 Honorary Fellow, Metropolitan Museum of Art; retirement from Metropolitan Museum of Art; Honorary Doctorate, Yale University
1950 Fellow, American Academy of Arts and Sciences; Lowell Lectures (published in 1953 under the title Prints and Visual Communication)
1961 death
1962-1964 Ivins Collection of Prints and Illustrated Books sold at auction by Parke Bernet
1977-1983 William M. Ivins, Jr. Papers donated to the Archives of American Art by his daughter, Barbara IvinsPainter and educator; Illinois. Born 1926.
Katherine Gauss Jackson (1904-1975) was a writer and magazine editor in North Egremont, Massachusetts, and the New York City area. She was the editor of fiction for Harper's. Alfred Hamilton Barr, Jr. (1902-1981) was the director of the Museum of Modern Art in New York City. Barr and Jackson had known each other in Greensboro, Vermont, where their families had summer homes. Barr attended Princeton University while Jackson's father was Dean of the College.
The Jack Rasmussen Gallery was established in 1978 in Washington, D.C. by painter and art dealer Jack Rasmussen. The gallery's first show was an exhibition of paintings by artist Reginald Pollack. Rasmussen Gallery went on to exhibit contemporary painters, sculptors, and audiovisual artists, many of whom were from the D.C. area. Artists exhibited at the gallery include Annie Gawlak, Robert Gates, Tom Green, Sy Gresser, Taro Ichihashi, Walter Kravitz, and Reginald Pollack. Rasmussen closed the gallery in 1983.
Jack Rasmussen began his career in 1975 as assistant director of the Washington Project for the Arts under its founder Alice Denney. After closing the gallery, Rasmussen helped launch the Rockville Arts Place program in Rockville, Maryland, and then served as executive director of Maryland Art Place in Baltimore, Maryland for 10 years. Rasmussen served as director of di Rosa Center for Contemporary Art in Napa, California, and has served as Director and Curator of the American University Museum at the Katzen Arts Center, Washington, DC, since it opened in 2005.
Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., was counted among the foremost French and American art dealers in antiquities and decorative arts and was among the first to foster and support the growth and appreciation for collecting in the field of contemporary European art. The company's clients included most of the major American and European art collectors of the era, and the art that passed through its galleries often ended up in the collections of prominent American and European museums through the donations of the wealthy benefactors who purchased them from the company. Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., took an active part in promoting such donations as well as providing its own donations and selling paintings, sculpture, and decorative arts directly to many museums.
The company was first established as Jacques Seligmann & Cie. in 1880 on the Rue des Mathurins in Paris by Jacques Seligmann (1858-1923), a German émigré who came to France in 1874 and soon thereafter became a French citizen. The company experienced so much success that in 1900 a new, larger Galerie Seligmann was opened on the Place Vendôme, and Jacques's two brothers, Simon and Arnold, joined the business as partners. Simon served as the company's accountant, and Arnold was in charge of correspondence with the firm's many clients. Jacques remained as the manager and was in charge of all purchases for the firm.
Prominent clients of the company included Baron Edmond de Rothschild of France, the Stroganoff family of Russia, Sir Philip Sassoon of England, and American collectors Benjamin Altman, William Randolph Hearst, J. P. Morgan, Henry Walters, and Joseph Widener. As American clients increasingly came to dominate the company's sales activities, a New York office at 7 West Thirty-sixth Street was opened in 1904. Five years later, Jacques purchased the Hôtel de Sagan (also called the Palais de Sagan by the Seligmann family) in Paris as a location where Jacques Seligmann & Cie. could stage larger exhibitions and receive its most distinguished clients.
In 1912 a family quarrel resulted in a lawsuit that split the company. Arnold remained at the Place Vendôme location, reorganized under the name Arnold Seligmann & Cie., while Jacques consolidated his operations and moved the headquarters for Jacques Seligmann & Cie. to the Hôtel de Sagan. Jacques also opened an additional gallery at 17 Place Vendôme to retain a presence near the company's original location, but this branch soon relocated to 9 Rue de la Paix. The New York office, which formerly had operated out of a single room, was upgraded to larger office space and a gallery at 705 Fifth Avenue.
Jacques's son, Germain Seligman (1893-1978), showed an interest in art connoisseurship from his early years and often accompanied his father to work in the galleries. (In 1943, when Germain Seligman became an American citizen, he dropped the second "n" from his surname, and for clarity his name appears with this spelling throughout this finding aid.) His father taught him how to deal with clients and often assigned him tasks to help in the completion of sales. Germain accompanied Jacques on many business trips and in 1910 was sent to St. Peterburg, Russia, to secure information about the selling price of the Swenigorodskoi enamels owned by the Russian collector M. P. Botkine.
Germain continued to work informally in the firm's galleries until the outbreak of World War I. Within hours of the mobilization order in 1914, Germain joined the French army as a second lieutenant in the 132nd Infantry Regiment of Rheims. By 1916 he was promoted to first lieutenant in the Twenty-fourth Infantry Brigade and in the following year achieved the rank of captain in the Fifty-sixth Infantry Division. Also in the same year, he was assigned as the first French liaison officer to the First Division of the American Expeditionary Force in France, serving as translator for Major George C. Marshall. Seligman was discharged from the French army in 1919 and was awarded the French Croix de Guerre with six citations. (In 1938 Seligman also was awarded the Office of the Legion of Honor from France, and in 1939 he was decorated by General John Joseph Pershing with the Distinguished Service Medal of the United States, in recognition for his service during World War I.)
After his discharge from military service, Germain Seligman actively joined his father's company as a partner in 1920. Jacques Seligmann & Cie. was changed to Jacques Seligmann et Fils, and Germain was placed in charge as the president of the New York office. The strong American art market necessitated Germain's making numerous cross-Atlantic trips each year. Upon the death of his father in 1923, Germain took over as president of both the Paris and New York offices, and the company was once again renamed Jacques Seligmann & Cie.
In the early years of Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., the firm carried few paintings, as collectors focused their interest mostly on small objects, enamels, ivories, and other decorative pieces from the Byzantine to the Renaissance eras. Stone and bronze sculptures, medieval and Renaissance tapestries, and eighteenth-century French furniture were the most avidly collected pieces of the era. The galleries of Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., reflected its clients' tastes, but soon after the turn of the century art trends began to change.
The 1913 Armory Show introduced many Americans to contemporary European art, and collectors in the United States began to show marked interest in it. The advent of World War I brought much of the art market to a standstill in Europe, but interest in the Impressionists continued in the United States, and it quickly resumed in Europe, as well, after the war. Both collectors and dealers began buying modern art, led by such progressive American collectors as Walter Arensberg, Albert C. Barnes, A. E. Gallatin, Mrs. Horace O. Havemeyer, Mrs. Potter Palmer, Duncan Phillips, and John Quinn, among others.
Under Germain's leadership, Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., began acquiring works by Pierre Bonnard, Paul Cézanne, Honoré Daumier, Edgar Degas, Pablo Picasso, Henri Rousseau, and Vincent van Gogh. While Germain promoted this trend for modern art in the New York gallery, other family partners did not approve as this was a new direction for the firm. For this reason Germain Seligman looked to establish a new, independent business venture in the evolving field of modern art. He selected as his partner César Mange de Hauke.
César Mange de Hauke was born on March 8, 1900, the son of a French engineer and a Polish mother. After completing academic and art studies in England and France in the years following World War I, de Hauke arrived in the United States in 1926. While in New York City, he was introduced to Germain Seligman by Germain's cousin, René Seligmann, and by 1927 de Hauke had joined Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., as a sales representative.
With their shared interest in modern French painting, Seligman and de Hauke decided to explore the feasibility of sales in this area by forming a subsidiary to Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., that would specialize in contemporary European artists. In 1926 Seligman personally financed the fledgling company, first called International Contemporary Art Company, Inc., and he appointed de Hauke its director, but even before the legal documents setting up the company were completed the name was changed to de Hauke & Co., Inc. Although the bulk of the new company's art purchases took place in Paris and London, the majority of its sales occurred in the United States.
Seligman and de Hauke worked out an agreement allowing de Hauke to purchase works of art that could then be sold as stock inventory of Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., or privately under de Hauke's own name. Ownership of paintings was often shared among various art dealers, involving complicated commission transactions upon completion of sale. Seligman provided display space for de Hauke & Co., Inc., at the new, larger gallery of Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., now located at 3 East Fifty-first Street. The two businesses were deeply intertwined, as evidenced by the facts that Seligman's financial records include a great deal of de Hauke material and many of de Hauke's records are written on the stationery of Jacques Seligmann Co., Inc.
During the second half of the 1920s, de Hauke showed the work of modern French School artists in New York City. He exhibited works by Pierre Bonnard, Amedeo Modigliani, Odilon Redon, Ker-Xavier Roussel, Edouard Vuillard, and many others. De Hauke was equally interested in French School drawings and watercolors, and the scope of his exhibitions also included works by nineteenth-century masters such as Paul Cézanne, Jacques-Louis David, Eugè00E8;ne Delacroix, Jean Ingres, Pierre-Auguste Renoir, and Georges Seurat.
Among the exhibitions held at the New York gallery were two highly successful shows featuring the works of Pablo Picasso. The first one, held in 1936, displayed paintings from the Blue and Rose Periods and was soon followed by the 1937 exhibition, Twenty Years in the Evolution of Picasso. The star of this exhibition was Les Demoiselles d'Avignon which Germain had recently acquired from the Jacques Doucet Estate sale.
Despite the bleak economic conditions of the 1930s, the new business venture proved so successful that the other family members of Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., withdrew their opposition to expanding into the field of modern art, and de Hauke & Co., Inc., was dissolved and re-formed under the new name, Modern Paintings, Inc. César M. de Hauke was appointed its director, but tensions had crept into the relationship between the former partners, and by 1931, de Hauke had resigned and returned to Paris.
The mid-1930s appear to have been a period of reorganization for the company. By 1934 Modern Paintings, Inc., was also dissolved, and it assets were assumed by Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., and by Tessa Corp., another subsidiary of the firm. In 1935, however, the firm established a new subsidiary, the Contemporary American Department, to represent young American artists. Theresa D. Parker, a longtime gallery employee, was selected to head the department, and she initiated an exhibition and loan program. Soon thereafter, the City of Paris offered to buy the company's building at the Hôtel de Sagan as part of a complicated negotiation for a site for the Exposition Internationale des Arts et Techniques dans la vie Modern 1937. The Paris office of Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., reestablished itself at 9 Rue de la Paix, but Germain selected the New York office as the headquarters for Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc. Subsequently he filed his legal residence as New York City. Germain's half-brother, François-Gerard, was left in charge of the Paris office operations, although Germain continued to commute between the two offices until the summer of 1939.
During the New York World's Fair of 1939, Germain served as a member of the Exhibition Committee, which coordinated the art section. When the fair was extended for an additional year, Seligman was asked to take responsibility for planning the French art section. World political events intruded, however, and rumors of impending war affected both the European and American economies as well as the international art world. Speculative sales, particularly in Europe, made for a chaotic and unpredictable market. In June 1940 German forces invaded France and occupied Paris. Business for Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., took a dramatic downturn. In the summer of 1940 the Seligmann galleries and family holdings were seized by the Vichy government, along with Germain's private art collection. The family house and its contents, along with almost the entire stock of the Paris firm, was sold at public auction. Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., staff burned the Paris office archives in an effort to keep the records relating to works of art from falling into the hands of the Nazi occupiers, who were looting and shipping art to Germany.
Family members also experienced the pains and changes brought on by the war. Jean Seligmann, a cousin of Germain and the head of Arnold Seligmann & Cie., was captured and shot in Vincennes, France. François-Gerard, a half-brother, was drafted into the army and subsequently joined the French Resistance. Another brother, André, fled France in September 1940 and arrived in New York City, where he opened his own gallery. (He would later return to Paris after the war, but died shortly thereafter from a heart attack.)
Germain applied for a commission in the United States Army in 1942, but his application was initially turned down due to his noncitizen status. Soon thereafter, however, President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed the second War Power Act, which stipulated that naturalization could be expedited if the individual served in the military during the war. This act prompted Germain to further press his application for a post overseas, citing his citizenship status as fairly inconsequential or at least no longer a grave hindrance. Despite numerous letters exchanged with the War Department, however, his application was eventually rejected due to changes in military personnel policy.
During the war years, the Seligmann company in New York moved from its 3 East Fifty-first Street location to smaller quarters at 5 East Fifty-seventh Street. The first exhibition in this space was held in the spring of 1944. By 1945 the Contemporary American Department was reactivated, with Theresa D. Parker as its head.
In the years following the war, a rapprochement occurred among the family members who had been split since the family quarrel between Jacques and Arnold Seligmann. With the death of Jean Seligmann during the war, Arnold Seligmann & Co. had been left without a director. Germain consolidated the two family businesses, but made separate financial and administrative entities of the Paris and New York offices. Henceforth they were affiliated "only by ties of affection."
During the early to mid-1950s, many of the activities involving Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., centered upon the recovery of looted artwork and property as well as resolving outstanding issues from the consolidation of the various family businesses. The firm was also involved in the sale of several significant collections.
In 1951 Germain was commissioned by the family of the Duc d'Arenberg to sell the family's collection of important illuminated manuscripts, engravings, and select paintings. Jan Vermeer's Portrait of a Young Girl was purchased for over a quarter million dollars.
Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., also handled the 1953 sale of works from the Prince of Liechtenstein's collection and negotiated the purchase of seven Italian marble sculptures that were eventually sold to the Samuel H. Kress Foundation in 1954. From the late 1950s up until the closing of the company in 1977-1978, the exhibitions mounted by the firm seem to indicate a gradual focus back toward drawings and more traditional art. Contemporary American artists continued to be shown as well, but the firm no longer maintained its leading edge in the art market.
Germain, who during the 1940s had written several works, among them a monograph on Roger de La Fresnaye in 1945 and The Drawings of Georges Seurat in 1947, devoted himself more and more to writing. In Oh! Fickle Taste; or, Objectivity in Art, published in 1952, Seligman addressed the importance of political and social climates in understanding the evolution of art collecting in the United States. He followed this book with the 1961 publication of Merchants of Art, 1880-1960: Eighty Years of Professional Collecting which memorialized his father and traced the history of Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc. Germain's most significant work, Roger de La Fresnaye, with a Catalogue Raisonné (1969), was lauded by art critics and listed among the 1969 "Best Ten Books of the Year" by the New York Times.
With the death of Germain Seligman in 1978, the firm doors closed, leaving behind a legacy of collecting that helped to establish American collectors and museums in the forefront of the international art world. A survey of the major art museums and collections in the United States reveals the significant number of works that were acquired either by sales or through donation from Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc. The influence the company wielded is also demonstrated through the network of relationships it built with collectors, art museums and institutions, and other dealers, such as Dr. Albert C. Barnes, Bernheim-Jeune, George Blumenthal, Sen. William A. Clark, the Detroit Institute of Arts, M. Knoedler & Co., Inc., the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Museum of Modern Art in New York, the National Gallery of Art, Marjorie Merriweather Post, Henry Walters, and Wildenstein & Co., among others.
1858, September 18 Jacques Seligmann born in Frankfurt, Germany.
1874 Jacques Seligmann leaves Germany to work in Paris, France, as an assistant at Maître Paul Chevallier, a leading Paris auctioneer. Soon after he leaves to work for Charles Mannheim, an expert in medieval art.
1880 Jacques Seligmann opens his own shop at the Rue des Mathurins. An early client is Baron Edmond de Rothschild.
1893, February 25 Germain Seligman is born in Paris, France. His mother's maiden name is Blanche Falkenberg (d. 1902).
1900 Jacques Seligmann & Cie. is formed when Jacques's brothers, Arnold and Simon, join him as partners and the business moves to the Place Vendôme.
1904 The New York City office of Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., is established, with Eugene Glaenzer as the manager. Beginning in 1905, Seligmann begins yearly visits to the New York office.
1907 Jacques Seligmann is elected a Fellow for Life of the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
1909 Jacques Seligmann & Cie. acquires the Hôtel de Sagan on the Rue Saint Dominique. Jacques moves the headquarters for the company to this location and reserves its use for the most exclusive and important clients, but his brother Arnold continues to oversee the general operations of the company at the Place Vendôme.
1912 A lawsuit between Jacques Seligmann and his brother, Arnold, results in a split in the family company. Arnold remains at Place Vendôme under the name Arnold Seligmann & Cie. Jacques consolidates his activities at the Hôtel de Sagan. He also opens another gallery at 17 Place Vendôme, but this is soon moved to 9 Rue de la Paix.
1914 As a result of the split in the family business, a new office and gallery are opened at 705 Fifth Avenue, and Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., is incorporated within the State of New York.
1914-1919 Germain Seligmann serves in the French army as a second lieutenant in the 132nd Infantry Regiment of Rheims. Later he is assigned as the first French liaison officer to the First Division of the American Expeditionary Force in France. He is discharged from active service in 1919.
1920 Germain Seligman becomes a partner with his father and formally joins Jacques Seligmann & Fils as the president of the New York office.
1923, October Jacques Seligman dies.
1924 Germain Seligman becomes the president of both the Paris and New York offices. Several of his brothers and sisters become partners in the firm. Theresa D. Parker joins the New York office.
1926 The New York office moves to 3 East Fifty-first Street. Germain Seligman, with César Mange de Hauke, sets up de Hauke & Co., Inc., to sell modern European paintings to American clients.
1930 De Hauke & Co., Inc., becomes Modern Paintings, Inc.
1931 De Hauke resigns as head of Modern Paintings, Inc., and returns to Paris.
1934 Modern Paintings, Inc., is dissolved, and its assets are assumed by Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., and by Tessa Corp., another subsidiary of the parent company.
1935 The Contemporary American Department is created as a part of Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., and Theresa D. Parker directs its operations.
1936-1937 Jacques Seligmann et Fils moves out of its gallery space at the Hôtel de Sagan and briefly reestablishes its headquarters at 9 Rue de la Paix. By 1937, however, the company headquarters moves to New York City. Germain Seligman establishes his legal residence there.
1939 World War II begins.
1940 During the summer, the Seligmann family house and its contents (at Rue de Constantine) are seized and sold by order of the Vichy government, along with Germain's private art collection and the gallery's stock. The Paris archives of Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., is destroyed by the Seligmann staff in order to keep the records from falling into the hands of the Nazis. René Seligmann dies in a New York hospital in June; François-Gerard, Germain's half-brother, is called up to serve in the army and joins the French Resistance. Another brother, André, escapes to the United States and opens a gallery in New York. Jean Seligmann, a cousin of Germain and the head of Arnold Seligmann & Cie., is captured and shot at Vincennes, France.
1943 Germain Seligman becomes an American citizen (and drops the second "n" from his original surname).
1944, Spring The New York gallery holds its first exhibition in the new 5 East Fifty-seventh Street location in New York City. During the war years, the firm had moved from its Fifty-first Street location to smaller quarters.
1945 The Contemporary American Department is reactivated.
1946 After the war, Arnold Seligmann & Cie. is left without a director, although it remains at the Rue de la Paix location. Germain consolidates the two firms but organizes the Paris and New York offices as separate financial and administrative entities.
1969 Germain Seligman publishes Roger de La Fresnaye, with a Catalogue Raisonné. The book receives acclaim and is listed on the 1969 New York Times "Ten Best Books of the Year."
1978, March 27 Germain Seligman dies.The James Vigeveno Galleries operated in Los Angeles from 1940 to 1956 and Ojai, a music and art/craft community located just north of Los Angeles, from 1957 to 1975. From 1957 to 1964 there were also periodic exhibitions of works from the Vigeveno Collection at the Bel-Air Hotel. Vigeveno (1895-1977) dealt primarily with French "modern and primitive" works, including artists of the School of Paris. American art, especially artists from California, were also represented. In addition, Chinese ceramics and Dutch and Flemish old master paintings were exhibited. Artists represented included Grandma Moses, Everett Shinn, John O'Shea, Rouault, Picasso, Chagall, Utrillo, William Ritschell, and others.
Portrait painter, instructor; Cambridge, Mass. Born in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Son of psychologist William James (1842-1910), brother of portrait painter Alexander Robertson James, and nephew of novelist Henry James. Pupil of Benson and Tarbell and teacher at Boston Museum of Fine Arts School, 1913-1926.
Jamison Thomas Gallery opened in Portland, Oregon in 1980 as the Folk Craft Gallery founded by William Jamison and Jeffrey Thomas. The gallery changed its focus and name in 1985 and began to specialize in contemporary photography, sculpture, and textile arts. Among the most notable artists represented by the gallery were Rick Bartow, Stuart Buehler, Dennis Cunningham, Susan Seubert, Dan May, Gus Van Sant, Ruza Erceg, Mark Bulwinkle, Jon Serl, Gregory Grenon, and Erik Stotik. Jamison Thomas Gallery closed in 1995, after William Jamison died from complications with AIDS.
Paul Jenkins (1923-2012) was an abstract expressionist painter and playwright in New York, New York, and Paris, France. Jenkins was born in Kansas City, Missouri in 1923, and moved to Youngstown, Ohio as a teenager. After serving in the U.S. Maritime Service and the U.S. Naval Air Corps, Jenkins studied playwriting with George McCalmon at the Carnegie Institute of Technology (now Carnegie Mellon University). In 1948, he moved to New York City, where he studied with Yasuo Kuniyoshi at the Art Students League of New York.
Over the course of his career, Jenkins experimented with multiple techniques, including oil on primed canvas, flowing paints, acrylics, watercolor, and mixed media collages. After traveling extensively and meeting many artists, Jenkins ultimately became associated with the Abstract Expressionists. His work gained the attention of other members of the art world and he held solo exhibitions at venues such as the Zoe Dusanne Gallery in Seattle and the Martha Jackson Gallery in New York. Jenkins' paintings were purchased by both museums and private collectors, including the Museum of Modern Art, the Whitney Museum of American Art, and Peggy Guggenheim.
In addition to his painting, Jenkins continued to explore other creative endeavors. He experimented with sculpture, producing works for events and permanent displays, including the Sculptors' Symposium at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum and the Sculpture Garden of the Hofstra Museum. His plays, such as Strike the Puma, were published and performed off Broadway in New York City. Jenkins's art served as the backdrop for multiple stage productions, and in 1978, his paintings were featured in the Academy Award nominated movie An Unmarried Woman. Jenkins also collaborated on a number of book projects, including Anatomy of a Cloud, a collection of autobiographical collages and texts.
Throughout his adult life, Jenkins split most of his time between New York and Paris. He continued to create and exhibit new works until his death in New York in 2012.
Sculptor; Bronx, N.Y.; d. 1978.
Maine arts administrator and printmaker Dorothy Hay Jensen (1910-1999) was a supervisor for the Federal Art Project in Maine from 1936 to 1941. Her work focused on The Index of American Design, a research division of the Federal Art Project of the Works Progress Administration, which produced classifications and approximately 20,000 reproductions, in photographs and original drawings, of a wide variety of American art, including paintings, sculpture, handicrafts and folk art.
Ida Jervis (1917-2014) was a photographer, puppeteer, and writer in Washington, D.C. Jervis's photographs were featured in The Jewish Week of Washington and other publications.
Ida Goodstein Jervis was born in Poland in 1917 and immigrated to the United States in 1921, where she settled in Tennessee. She married Sidney Jervis and relocated to Northern Virginia outside of Washington, D.C. in 1944. In the 1960s, Jervis's writings and photographs appeared in local Washington D.C. newspapers. Her work often centered around the D.C. area arts scene. Additionally, she was an avid puppeteer and was active with the National Capital Puppetry Guild.
Ida Jervis died in 2014 in Falls Church, Virginia.
Painters; New York, N.Y. and Massachusetts.
Joshua Johnson, or Johsnston (circa 1765-circa 1830) was an African American portraitist in Baltimore, Maryland. Johnson was the son of a white man and an enslaved woman and was sold to his father, who acknowledged him as his son and agreed to free him when Johnson either completed an apprenticeship with a blacksmith or turned 21, whichever came first. Johnson was listed in Baltimore City directories as a painter or limner beginning in 1796. He is the first documented African American professional artist.
Katharine Livingston Bayard Johnson (1845-1906) was a painter in Paris, France. Born in the Massachusetts, Johnson lived in Europe for most of her life. Her sister was Anna M. Johnson Bellamy.
Robert P. Johnston was a professor of art at Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo, Michigan.
Author and editor.
Ruth Barker Johnston (1914-1996) was a metal-worker, jeweler, and educator in New York City, Washington, D.C., and Arizona.
Johnston received a B.A. from Skidmore College where she later taught jewelry and design from 1935 to 1939. She was awarded an M.A. in art education from Columbia University in 1941 and was involved in the American Red Cross recreational and occupational therapy program for World War II veterans. From 1968 to 1995 Johnston lived in Tucson, Arizona, where she was a member of the Arizona Designer Craftsmen, the Tucson Craft Guild, the Society of North American Goldsmiths, and the Tucson Museum of Art.
Sargent Johnson (1888-1967) was an African American sculptor in northern California. He was one of the first African American artists working in California to gain national recognition, and exhibited in many Harmon Foundation exhibitions. In the late 1930s, Johnson worked for the Works Progress Administration Federal Arts Project.
Department store; Philadelphia, Pa. Founded 1861. Opened an art gallery in 1881. The art gallery is now defunct.
William Henry Johnson (1901-1970) was born in Florence, South Carolina, in 1901. He moved to New York City in 1918, and from 1921 to 1926 he attended the National Academy of Design, studying with Charles Hawthorne, and attending Hawthorne's summer school in Provincetown, Massachusetts. As a student he won many awards for his paintings but failed to win a traveling scholarship to Europe. Hawthorne and others believed there may have been some prejudice in this decision and raised money for Johnson to study abroad. From 1926 to 1929 he lived in Paris and southern France. While in Paris he lived and worked in Whistler's old studio and met African American expatriate painter, Henry Ossawa Tanner. He lived briefly in Harlem, New York, in 1930 and exhibited in the Harmon Foundation's exhibition of work by African American artists in which he won the Gold Award for "Distinguished Achievement among Negroes".
 In late 1930 Johnson moved to Kerteminde, Denmark, where he married textile artist Holcha Krake whom he had met in Paris. In 1933 they traveled to Germany, France, and Tunisia, which had a great impact on his work. From 1935 to 1938 they lived in various parts of Norway, and Johnson met artist Edvard Munch.
In 1938 Johnson and his wife moved back to New York City. The next year he briefly joined the WPA Federal Art Project as a painting teacher at the Harlem Community Art Center. Johnson had his first solo exhibition in New York at the Alma Reed Gallery in 1941. After Holcha Krake's death in 1944, Johnson began showing signs of mental illness. He lived briefly in Florence, South Carolina, and in 1946 returned to Denmark. He was hospitalized in Norway in 1947 and was then transferred to the Central Islip State Hospital in New York where he spent the next 23 years, until his death in 1970.
 In 1956 the Harmon Foundation acquired over a thousand of Johnson's works that were still among his estate. The foundation ceased operations in 1967.
Portrait painter. Born in Brussels, Belgium. Following study at the Academie des Beaux Arts, Brussels, and as a draftsman in Paris, Jonniaux began his career as a portraitist in London. He immigrated to the United States during World War II, becoming a citizen in 1946. During his first ten years in America, he established studios in San Francisco and Washington, D.C. His exhibitions led to many portrait commissions from leading figures in all spheres of American life.
Donald Judd (1928-1994) was a sculptor from New York, N.Y.
Mural painter, painter, lithographer; New York, N.Y. Worked with Philip Guston on murals for the Treasury Department in the 1930's.
Photographer, social activist, and author; Glen Ellen, Calif. Kahn was a close friend of Rockwell Kent.
Abstract expressionist painter; New York, N.Y.
Howard Kanovitz (1929-2009) was a painter based in New York City and Southampton, NY. After an early career as a jazz trombonist, Kanovitz began painting in 1949 and studied at The Rhode Island School of Design and The Art Students League in Woodstock with Yasuo Kuniyoshi. He moved to New York City and apprenticed with Franz Kline. Although he began his painting career as an abstract expressionist, Kanovitz became one of the early practitioners of photorealism in the 1960s. He also taught at the Salzburger Summer Art School and the School of Visual Arts and took on set design projects in both America and Germany. Kanovitz had more than fifty one-person gallery shows, with his last in 2008, one year before he died.
Karlstrom: Director and area collector of the Archives of American Art, San Francisco office. Siegriest: painter and graphic artist; Oakland, California. Oliveira: painter and teacher; Stanford, California. Keinholz: assemblage artist; California and Idaho. Wood: Ceramist, Calif.
Art collector, ca. 1893-1966.
Bernard Kassoy, painter and printmaker; Hortense Kassoy, sculptor and painter; Bronx, N.Y.
Painter; New York City
William S. Wilson (1932-2016) was an author and educator. Born in Baltimore, he lived and worked in New York, NY. He was a friend and collaborator of artist Ray Johnson. Wilson's mother was May Wilson an American feminist, artist, and was a collaborator of Johnson.
Jonathan Katz is the director, Visual Studies Doctoral Program, Department of Art, University at Buffalo, New York.
Lila Katzen (1925-1998) was a sculptor and educator from New York City, New York. Katzen studied at Cooper Union and with Hans Hofmann. She is known for large metal abstract sculptures.
Nancy Kaufman, a specialist in modern and contemporary art, is an arts administrator and art consultant in New York, N.Y.
Naval officer commandant; Norfolk, Va. and New York City.
New York City sculptor Charles Keck (1875-1951) was known for his statuary and relief sculpture, including military and presidential statues, busts, and memorials, medal relief sculpture, and memorial tablets.
Keck was born in New York City, and began his art training at the National Academy of Design and the Art Students League of New York. He also worked in the studio of Augustus Saint-Gaudens from 1893-1898. In 1899 he won the Prix de Rome and studied sculpture at the American Academy in Rome from 1901-1904. On returning to the United States in 1905, he opened a studio in New York City, from which he worked for the remainder of his life.
Keck's most famous works include a figure of Booker T. Washington at Tuskegee, Alabama (1922), a seated figure of Abraham Lincoln at Wabash, Indiana (1926), a statue of World War II chaplain, Father Francis D. Duffy in Times Square, New York (1937), and equestrian statues to Andrew Jackson in Kansas City (1934) and Independence (1949), Missouri. His relief work included designs of state medals, seals, and coins, memorial tablets such as his USS "Maine" tablet, and friezes for the Nelson Atkins Museum in Kansas City, Missouri, and the Bronx Building in New York.
Keck received many awards during his career, including the Annual Gold medal for Sculpture of the Architectural League of New York (1926), and was a member of professional art organizations including the National Academy of Design, the National Sculpture Society, the American Federation of Arts, and others.
Nancy Kelker (1951- ) is an art historian in Murfreesboro, Tennessee. and the author of Mel Casas: Artist as Cultural Adjuster.
Mel Casas (1929-2014) was a painter and educator in San Antonio, Texas. Casas was a member of Con Safo, an organization that promoted Chicano concepts and the Chicano art movement. Humanscapes, Casas' series of 150 paintings, was produced between 1965 and 1989 and has been exhibited throughout the U.S. and Mexico. Casas died in San Antonio, Texas. in 2014.
Painter; New York City; b. in Philadelphia, Pa., Dec. 19, 1913.
Leon Kelly (1901-1982) was a painter in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Loveladies Harbor, New Jersey.
Author. Wrote exhibition catalog THE ETCHED WORK OF WHISTLER (New York: Grolier Club) 1910.
Publisher; New York City. Name also appears as Mitchell Kennerley. He published The Forum, 1910-1916 and was president of the Anderson Galleries, New York City, 1916-1929.
Rockwell Kent (1882-1971) was a painter, printmaker, and illustrator from New York, N.Y.
Rockwell Kent (1882-1971) was a painter, printmaker, illustrator, designer, and commercial artist.
Painter; Ipswich, Mass. Studied painting in Paris throughout the 1880s where he met teacher and painter Arthur Wesley Dow. Settled in Ipswich, Mass. where Dow lived and ran a summer art school.
Painter; New York City.
Artist.
Painter; San Francisco, Los Angeles, and New York; b. 1934, d. 1992. Les Kerr was an artist active in New York, Los Angeles, and the Bay Area in the 1950s and 1960s. Formally trained as an painter at UCLA, he studied under William Brice and John Paul Jones in the 1950s. His oeuvre included small sculptures and mixed media boxes, however, Kerr referred to himself as an "abstract" painter mainly within the Beat circle, principally in the North Beach area of San Francisco. Despite the fact that Kerr did not actively exhibit within the mainstream galleries, he did exhibit extensively with the Syndall Gallery, Dilexi Galleries (Los Angeles and San Francisco), and the Ferus Gallery in Los Angeles, mostly noted for showing the works of Beat and assemblage artists such as Ed Moses and Craig Kauffman.
Filipowski: designer, sculptor, teacher; Mass. Kessler: architect, art collector.
Margueritte Kimball (1906-1995) was a student at the Cranbrook Academy of Art in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, and served as the school's financial secretary for 26 years.
Born in Clinton, Massachusetts, Kimball graduated from Bryant and Stratton Commercial College in Boston and later took drawing classes at the Copley Society Studio. In 1941, Kimball traveled to Michigan where she visited Cranbrook, an educational complex consisting of several schools including the Cranbrook Academy of Art. She was accepted to the Academy after showing her drawings to the head of the painting department. In 1942 she began attending classes and embarked on her long career as the Academy's financial secretary. Kimball did not graduate from the school, but received an honorary degree on retirement, after which she returned to the Boston area where she died in 1995.
Photographer, born 1934.
Sculptor; New York, N.Y.
Robert Kipniss (1931-) is a painter and printmaker who works mainly in New York.
Kipniss was born in Brooklyn, New York. During his childhood he attended New York's Art Students League when he was sixteen on Saturdays and he began college in 1948, attending Wittenberg College in Springfield, Ohio for two years before transferring to the University of Iowa. After graduating with a B.A. in English Kipniss stayed at the university and earned a Master of Fine Arts degree in 1954. After gaining this degree he, and his former wife Jean, moved to Manhattan and Kipniss was drafted into the United States Army in 1956 where he used his talent to create training aids.
Kipniss has written poetry, published books, and illustrated two volumes of poetry. He is known for his paintings, lithographs, and mezzotints. His early work was with paintings focusing on abstracts, biomorphic forms, landscapes, still lifes, and figures. The lithographs he later created followed this style. Kipniss did not fully focus on mezzotints until 1990 and had his first solo mezzotint show in 1992.
Since 1965 Kipniss has had more than twenty-two museum exhibitions around the world and his work is held by more than eighty-eight museums and institutions.
Kipniss currently maintains a studio on the Hudson River in Westchester County, New York and is married to his second wife Laurie Lisle.
Painter and sculptor; New York City.
Sculptor. Studied at Minneapolis School of Art; awarded Prix de Rome 1926-29.
Arts administrator Aline Kistler (1895- ) was the education director at the California Palace of the Legion of Honor in San Francisco, California. Kistler was also an authority on prints, and edited the journal Prints.
R.B. Kitaj (1932-2007) was a Painter, printmaker in Los Angeles, Calif.
Painter, curator, San Diego, Calif. Klauber was a member of the Women's Board of the Panama-Pacific Exposition, 1915-1916, in San Diego, working on art exhibitions, actively assisted by Robert Henri and Edgar L. Hewett. Later, she was a curator at the Fine Arts Gallery of San Diego (renamed San Diego Museum of Art in 1978).
Betty Klausner: Art historian, San Francisco, Calif. David Ireland: Conceptual and installation artist, San Francisco, Calif. b. 1930
California and New Mexico etcher and painter, Gene Kloss, was known for her depictions of the American Southwest.
Also known as Alice Geneva Glasier, Kloss was born in Oakland, California, and studied at the University of California at Berkeley, the California School of Fine Arts in San Francisco, and the College of Arts and Crafts in Oakland. In 1925 she traveled to New Mexico to honeymoon with her husband, poet Phillip Kloss, and was deeply drawn to the region. Thereafter, Gene and Phillip divided their time between Berkeley and Taos, New Mexico, where Gene produced etchings and paintings of the landscape and its Pueblo inhabitants.
Kloss was employed as the sole etcher for the 1933-1934 Public Works of Art Project, producing watercolors and oil paintings, and a series of New Mexico scenes that were reproduced and distributed to public schools across the state.
Karl Knaths (1891-1971) was an abstract painter based in Provincetown, Massachusets.
John Sloan (1871-1951) was a painter, printmaker, illustrator, and teacher from New York, N.Y. and Santa Fe, N.M. He was a member of the artists' group known as "the eight."
Ernest Knee (1907-1982) was a Canadian photographer who worked primarily in New Mexico.
Painter and educator; Cincinnati, Ohio.
Florence Knoll Bassett (1917-2019) was born Florence Schust and was affectionately known as Shu by her colleagues and friends. She was orphaned at age 12 and then cared for by Emile Tessin, a friend of the family whom her mother had appointed as Florence's legal guardian in the event of her death. When arrangements were being made for Florence to attend boarding school she was given the opportunity to make the selection. Kingswood School in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, held a strong aesthetic appeal for her and she "made an immediate decision that it was the right place for me," beginning her architectural studies under the school's art director, Rachel de Wolfe Raseman.
At Kingswood Knoll Bassett met the Saarinen family, studying under Eliel Saarinen and developing her interest in texture and color through her friendship with Loja Saarinen who supervised the school's weaving studio. Following Florence's graduation from Kingswood in 1934, Eliel Saarinen encouraged her to spend some time at Cranbrook Academy of Art before attending an accredited architecture school. She spent the next two years at Cranbrook working closely with advanced students and artists such as the Saarinens and Carl Milles, and gaining experience in all aspects of design.
Knoll Bassett then studied for two years at the Architectural Association in London, spending summers with the Saarinens in Europe. She completed her formal training at the Illinois Institute of Technology where she studied under Mies van der Rohe, whom she credits with having "a profound effect on my design approach and the clarification of design."
After graduation Knoll Bassett worked for architecture firms in Boston and New York where she met Hans Knoll who was then in the process of establishing a furniture business. In 1943 she began working for him in her spare time as an interior space planner and designer. In 1946 the two were married and formed Knoll Associates, Inc.
As director of the Knoll Planning Unit, Knoll Bassett established herself as one of the most important and influential interior planners and designers of the second half of the twentieth century. Believing that intelligent design "strikes at the root of living requirements and changing habits," she established the practice of working closely with the corporate sector to determine the needs of the people who would actually use the spaces that her company designed. Her connections with leading contemporary architects and designers, and the company's commitment to crediting designers by name and paying them royalties, laid the foundations for the strong working relationships upon which the commercial success of Knoll Associates was built. Drawing on a pool of top architects and designers, many of whom were personal friends, Knoll Bassett directed the company's Bauhaus approach, incorporating design excellence, technological innovation, and mass production in a seamless package of "total design."
While Knoll Bassett oversaw the creative process of the Planning Unit's operations in its entirety, she was also directly responsible for many of the individual elements used in the Unit's projects. During the war years, she worked with her designers to overcome the scarcity of materials, establishing Knoll Textiles in response to the dearth of available fabrics and textile colors, and developing the company's hallmark style of spare clean lines and vibrant colors in a functional, comfortable, and aesthetically appealing space. Finding that much of the "fill-in" furniture, primarily cabinetry, that she envisaged in many of her plans was not available, Knoll Bassett designed the pieces herself. She used the Knoll showrooms as "experimental laboratories" to convince clients to use modern ideas and materials, showcasing and putting into production the classic designs of people such as Eero Saarinen, Mies van der Rohe, Jens Risom, Harry Bertoia, Isamu Noguchi, and Marcel Breuer.
After the war Knoll Associates expanded to Europe through a series of government contracts which resulted ultimately in the formation of Knoll International. When Hans Knoll died suddenly in an automobile accident in 1955 Florence became president of the company. She married Harry Hood Bassett in 1958 and began to divide her time between New York and Florida. In 1959 she sold her interest in Knoll Associates to Art Metal and retired as President of the company the following year, while continuing to work as a consultant and serving as Design Director. In 1961 she became the first woman to be awarded the Gold Medal for Industrial Design by the American Institute of Architects, one of many awards received over the course of her career. In 1965 she resigned from Knoll Associates entirely after completing the interior design for the CBS headquarters in New York.
Following her retirement Knoll Bassett devoted more time to private commissions and other interests such as her campaign against billboards in Miami in the mid 1980s. She spent summers in Vermont and winters in Florida with her husband, until his death in 1991. In July 2001, Metropolis magazine published a rare interview with Knoll Bassett in which she reflects upon the life she so skillfully documented in the extraordinary gift of her archival papers to the Archives of American Art.
Lewis Koch (1949- ) is an artist and documentary photographer in Madison, Wisconsin.
Robert Koehler was born in Hamburg, Germany, in 1850 and settled with his family in Milwaukee, Wisconsin in 1854. He learned the trade of lithography which he practiced in Milwaukee, Pittsburgh, and New York City. He studied painting for two years in Munich, Germany, until lack of funds forced him to return in 1875 to New York where he continued his studies at the National Academy and the Art Students League. In 1879 Koehler returned to Munich where he taught art and organized the American department of 2 international art exhibitions, held in 1883 and 1888. His most famous work "The Strike" (1886) was based on industrial conflicts in Pittsburgh. He returned to New York in 1892 and served as director of the Minnesota School of Fine Arts from 1893 to 1914. He died Apr. 24, 1917.
Sacha Kolin (1911-1981) was a painter and sculptor from New York, N.Y. Kolin was born in Paris, France in 1911. She grew up in Vienna, Austria, attending the Wiener Kunstgewerbeschule (1930) and the Academy of Fine Arts (1931-32). In 1933 she moved to Paris, and studied with Naoum Aronson (himself a stone carver for Auguste Rodin). In 1935, she became the youngest full member of the Nationale Societe des Beaux Arts. In December 1936, she immigrated to New York and participated in many one-person and group exhibitions. She was the recipient in 1973 of a Mark Rothko Foundation grant award.
Painter; printmaker. b. Jan. 2, 1869, Charlotte, N.C.; d. Jan. 31, 1914, Etaples, France; attended Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts.
Janet Kolpos is an art historian and author. Koplos is the co-author of Makers: A History of American Studio Craft, an honorary fellow of the American Craft Council, and a contributing editor to Art in America magazine, where she was a staff editor for 18 years.
Art critic; Washington, D.C. Wrote for The Washington Post under the byline Alice Graeme. Korff also was an administrator for the New Deal's short-lived Public Works of Art Project headed by Forbes Watson.
Belle Krasne Ribicoff (b. 1924) lives in Hartford, Connecticut and has served as an arts editor, critic, and university administrator.
Ribicoff was born and raised in New York City. She graduated Phi Beta Kappa with a degree in art history from Vassar College in 1945. After a brief stint with an advertising agency in New York, Ribicoff became Assistant Editor at Magazine of Art (1946-1947), where she developed an interest in contemporary art. She served as editor for such publications as Art News (1948-1949), Art Digest (1949-1954), and Craft Horizons (1954-1955).
In 1955, she married Irving S. Ribicoff (1915-1994), an attorney and moved to Hartford, Connecticut. The Ribicoffs' had two daughters, Dara (b. 1956) and Sarai (1957-1980).
Ribicoff has held various positions at the University of Hartford: Development Director at the Hartford School of Art (1980-1981), Development Liaison to the Office of President (1982-1988), and Associate Vice President for Public Affairs (1980-1983). Belle Krasne Ribicoff has served as a professional volunteer for educational and cultural organizations in Connecticut; she has been involved in efforts to make the arts a part of the school curriculum. She was Vice-President of the Hartford Board of Education (1961-1967; 1965-1971) and was Chairman of the State of Connecticut's Commission on the Arts (1965-1971). Ribicoff is a Life Director at the Hartford Stage Company and a Life Regent at the University of Hartford. She is a Sterling Fellows at Yale University and sits on the President's Advisory Committee at Vassar College.
Belle Krasne Ribicoff has received recognition for her professional and public service contributions by a number of institutions. In 1954, she received the Frank Jewett Mather Award for critical writing from the College Art Association. Other honors have included: Charter Oak Leadership Medal for Distinguished Service (1968), the University of Hartford Medal for Distinguished Service (1995), and the Spirit of Vassar award for outstanding commitment and service to Vassar or another community (2005).
Historian, educator, labor organizer; Cleveland, Ohio and Paris, France. Among his books are: The Many and the Few: A Chronicle of the Dynamic Auto Workers; Gold Was the Mortar: the Economics of Cathedral Building; and with co-author Dorothy Kraus, The Gothic Choirstalls of Spain.
Louise Kruger (1924-2013) was a sculptor in New York City, New York, known for her work in wood and bronze. She attended the Art Students League of New York and continued her studies learning traditional woodworking, metal-working, and woodblock printing techniques.
Psychology professor. Logan was a painter, etcher, lithographer; New London, Connecticut. Birthdate also listed as 1899.
Painter, sculptor, etcher and furniture maker; New York, N.Y., and Rockport, Mass.
Kuhn was a painter and secretary of the Association of Painters and Sculptors, the organizer of the International Exhibition of Modern Art held 1913 at the 69th St. Armory, NYC, known as the Armory Show.
Aaron Kurzen (1920-2021) was a painter, sculptor and teacher in Stony Creek, Conn.
Glassmaker, sculptor; Grand Rapids, Ohio. Born 1910. Labino was born in Fairmount City, Pa. and studied at Carnegie Intitute of Technology and Toledo Museum of Art School of Design. He holds two honorary degrees from Bowling Green State University and the University of Toledo. He is a glassblower and sculptor, using a technique of free-hand blowing and hot-glass sculpting. He also works on the development of color and color effects in glass.
Director of literature at University of Kansas City.
Born in 1878 in Philadelphia to John and Mary Watts, Anna Coleman Ladd (née Watts) was educated in private schools and Europe. She also studied in America under Charles Grafly.
She moved to Boston in 1905 and married Boston pediatrician Maynard Ladd with whom she had two daughters, Gabriella May Ladd and Vernon Abbott Ladd . Working in her studio on Clarendon Street, Ladd became one of the city's most prolific sculptors, creating fountain pieces, portrait busts, memorials, and reliefs in addition to authoring two novels, Hieronymus Rides in 1912, and The Candid Adventurer in 1913.
Between 1907 and 1915, Ladd had solo exhibitions at the Gorham Gallery in New York, the Corcoran Gallery in Washington, D.C., and the Pennsylvania Academy in Philadelphia. She was also invited to exhibit her bronzes at the Panama Pacific Exposition in San Francisco. In 1914 she executed a bronze statuette of Eleanora Duse for which the actress posed, and later completed portrait busts of Anna Pavlova and Ethel Barrimore.
In late 1917 in Paris, Ladd founded the American Red Cross Studio for Portrait-Masks to provide cosmetic masks to be worn by men who had been badly disfigured in World War I. Her services earned her the Légion d'Honneur Crois de Chevalier and the Serbian Order of Saint Sava.
For many years, Ladd maintained a summer studio "Arden" at Beverly Farms in Manchester, Massachusetts. In 1923, she received an honorary degree of Master of Arts from Tufts College.
Anna Coleman Ladd died June 3, 1939 in Santa Barbara, California.
Organized 1867 and incorporated in 1877 to promote interests of women artists. Many of its members and officers were Quakers.
John La Farge (1835-1910) was a painter and stained glass artist in Rhode Island and New York.
Editor, publisher; Essex, Conn.; b. 1921. Florence Laffal was editor and publisher of the quarterly newsletter "Folk Art Finder." Her husband, Julius, was contribution editor and co-publisher. The couple owns and maintains works of art in the Collection of Flo and Jules Laffal.
Val Laigo (1930-1992) was a Filipino American painter based in Seattle, Washington. Val Laigo was born in Naguilian, La Union, in the Phillipines. His family moved to the United States in 1931 and to Seattle in 1941. Laigo's full name Valeriano Emerenciano Montante Laigo.
Sculptor Frances Kent Lamont (1899-1970) was active in New York, New York. She is known for her war memorials and exhibited extensively in the United States and Europe.
Lamont was born in New York City, but spent some of her childhood in Italy with her father, architect William Winthrop Kent. She studied at the Art Students League and the School of American Sculpture under Solon Borglum upon returning to the United States. In the 1930s, she studied in Paris and exhibited there until the outbreak of World War II. She was a member of the National Sculpture Society. She married Robert Patterson Lamont Jr.
Illustrator, painter, printmaker; born in Philadelphia and studied at the Museum Art School and the New School for Social Research. Began career as an illustrator while editor of the magazine "At Ease."
Painter; born Bangor, Maine. Studied abroad, but returned to the United States to set up a studio in Boston where he developed a love of the sea and ships.
Jack Lenor Larsen (b. 1927), based in New York and of international reputation, has been deeply involved in the design of hand woven fabric and its application to modernist interior design. An international entrepreneur, Larsen also has written books on design and has been a frequent lecturer.
Larsen was born in Seattle, Washington to parents of Canadian/Scandinavian descent; his father was a building contractor. Larsen studied architecture at the University of Washington and became interested in materials design, receiving his M.F.A. from Cranbrook Academy of Art in Michigan in 1951. Following graduation, he opened a studio in New York and established Jack Lenor Larsen Incorporated. Just months later, Larsen successfully competed for the commission to design draperies for the important glass walled Lever House building on Park Avenue designed by Skidmore, Owings and Merrill.
Larsen was highly successful in marketing his ideas and innovations, which included combining metallic thread with natural polished linen and hand woven fabrics consisting of varied yarns in random and repeating patterns. This later style of fabric became known as the "Larsen Look" and was synonymous with modern design. Larsen's firm successfully adapted technological advances to fabric design but also used ancient techniques; they were first to design fabrics for jet air planes, stretch upholsestry and printed velvets.
In 1958-1960, Larsen represented the United States Department of State in Vietnam and Taiwan, studying those countries' crafts with the goal of developing industry to create jobs and products for export. Larsen then saw the opportunity for international fabric design and production. He travelled to Latin America, Africa and Asia to study local crafts and weaving with an eye towards business opportunites, focusing on hand spun and hand woven silks. By the 1990s Larsen was producing fabric in over 30 countries. In 1997, Jack Lenor Larsen, Inc. merged with the British fabric house, Cowtan and Tout and became the United States subsidiary of the British company, Colefax and Fowler.
Many museums have collected and/or exhibited Larsen fabrics. Notable among them are The Metropolitan Museum of Art, Musee des Arts Decoratifs (in the Louvre Museum), Museum of Modern Art, Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam, and the Victoria and Albert Museum in London. In addition, Larsen is the author of several books relating to fabric and fabric design including Material Wealth: Living with Luxurious Fabrics (an international survey of contemporary fabric design) and an autobiography, Jack Lenor Larsen: A Weaver's Memoir.
Susan C. Larsen is an art historian; Tenants Harbor, Me. She attended the "Times Square Show,"organized by Collaborative Projects, Inc. also known as Colab, which had hundreds of artists and performers, many from the nascent East Village art scene, including Jenny Holzer and David Hammons.
Dorothy Antoinette (Toni) LaSelle (1901–2002), was an artist and art historian, and a student of Hans Hofmann.
Art director, painter, lecturer; Manchester, New Hampshire. Was director of the WPA Project from 1935-1942.
Painter, etcher; born New Hope, Pa.
Glenna Latimer (1898-1980) was a painter in Norfolk, Va. Latimer was best known for her definitive portraits, but worked in landscapes and mural painting as well. A scholarship for her work enabled her to attend the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts in Philadelphia for four years. She was the first president of the Norfolk Art Corner.
Painter; California.
Sidney Laufman (1891-1985) was a landscape painter. He studied at the Cleveland School of Art, the School of The Art Institute of Chicago, and under Robert Henri at the Art Students League of New York. After World War I, he and his wife settled in Paris where he worked for thirteen years before returning to the United States. He was active in the Federal Emergency Relief Administration in Florida and the WPA in New York. He also taught at the Art Students League in 1938.
Merry Renk (1921-2012) was a jeweler, painter, and sculptor from San Francisco, California.
Jo Lauria (1954- ) is a curator and arts writer from Sherman Oaks, California.
Sculptor; San Francisco, Calif.
Publishing Co., Philadelphia, Pa.
Percy Leason (1889-1959) was a painter, illustrator, writer, and educator from Kaniva, Victoria in Australia. Leason took an interest in art at an early age winning first prize in painting at the 1904 State Fair. He later attended art school in the town of Nhill, and in 1906, he went to Melbourne to be an apprentice at Sands and McDougall Lithographers. Soon after starting his apprenticeship, Leason moved to the art department where he began drawing illustrations for products and advertisements. In the evenings, he attended the Melbourne Gallery School where he studied art under Bernard Hall and Frederick McCubbin. While in Melbourne, Leason associated himself with the Victorian Artist Society and lived a bohemian lifestyle. He began creating illustrations for books in 1914 and went on to do illustrations for the Sydney Bulletin, Melbourne Punch, Tabletalk Magazine, and the Melbourne Herald where he developed the Wiregrass cartoon series. In 1924, Leason and Max Meldrum, who Leason had met a few years before, discussed tonal realism, a systematic style of painting that uses light and shade to produce a misty quality. Leason's devotion to tonal realism along with his participation in Victorian Artist Society exhibitions helped advance his career. In 1934 Melbourne University commissioned him to do a series on Australian aborigines. He became interested in cave art and archeology during this time. In Cambridge, England in 1937 he presented his theory that cave artists sketched using dead animals as models.
Due to the impending World War, art scene rivalries, and the lack of commercial art employment prospects, Leason immigrated to New York in 1938 in search of more opportunities in the United States. Before emigrating to the U.S., he completed a portrait of Basil Burdett which now hangs in the Queensland Art Gallery in Brisbane, Australia. His career in New York included work for New York Daily News, Blue Book Magazine, the Saturday Evening Post, Street and Smith, and book illustrations for The Wizard of Oz by Frank Baum (Whitman Publishing Company) in 1939. In New York, Leason continued his opposition to modernist and expressionist art by aligning himself with the Salmagundi Club, Allied Artists, and the American Artist Professional League, all of which supported tonal realism. In association with Portraits Incorporated in New York, he painted the portraits of TV personality Arlene Francis, Michael Engel of Grumbacker art supplies, and Missouri congressman Dewey Short whose portrait is housed in the House of Representative's collection in Washington D.C.
By the late 1950's, Leason had difficulties within the art world because the trends in art no longer held a place for his tonal realism. He died in 1959 on Staten Island in New York. As a tribute to Leason after his death, the Staten Island Institute and the Salmagundi Club held retrospective exhibitions of his work.
Painter, lecturer and critic; San Antonio, Texas. Born 1914. Studied at University of Texas, Austin, and Incarnate Word College. She is an active in supporting and furthering the cause of the fine arts in the southwest United States.
Harold E. Leeds (1913-2002) was an architect and professor of interior design at Pratt Institute in New York City. He designed the Paris Theater, the Caribe Hilton in San Juan, and Martha Graham's dance studio. In 1951, Leeds, along with his partner, documentary filmmaker Wheaton Galentine, purchased a house at 64 Perry Street in the West Village. His neighbors, the painter Loren MacIver and her husband, poet Lloyd Frankenberg lived at 61 Perry Street. During their extended stays in France, Leeds would look after their home.
Painter and educator; New York, N.Y. Studied at City College, New York and Hunter College under Mark Rothko and Tony Smith. She has won a number of fellowships including the Max Beckmann and the Jackson Pollock-Lee Krasner fellowships. Her art works are multimedia in nature.
Painter, designer, engraver, teacher, sculptor; born in Russia. Studied at City University Art School, New York, and National Academy of Design. Taught at Vanderpoel College and was a WPA artist.
Douglas Leigh was born in Anniston, Alabama, in 1907. After graduating from the University of Florida in 1928, he began his career as a salesman for the General Outdoor Advertising Company of Atlanta, Georgia. He moved to New York City in 1930 and developed his ideas for animated and illuminated advertising signs primarily in the vicinity of Times Square. He established his own advertising company, Douglas Leigh, Inc., in 1933 and created the popular Camel Cigarette billboard that featured a man's face exhaling smoke rings over Broadway.
Dubbed "The Man Who Lit Up New York" in his New York Times obituary, he was responsible for festooning Broadway with miles of spectacular electrical and animated signs, such as a steaming coffeepot, a winking penguin on a cake of ice for Kool cigarettes, and the giant Camel sign that puffed smoke rings from a Times Square sign from 1941 and 1967. These effects led to creating animated billboards, an innovation called the Leigh-EPOK animated, billboards matrix display, or EPOK. Leigh developed numerous dirigible advertising projects involving both painted logos and networks of lights over the surface of the dirigible. These sequentially-timed lights caused dramatic animated effects against the night sky.
Leigh was also a pioneer in the illumination of city skylines and buildings and thought of lighting up Manhattan's skyscrapers, beginning with the Empire State Building, in 1976 and continuing with the lighting and gilding of the Con Edison Building, the Helmsley Building, and the Crown Building. This idea was adopted by many other cities, including Cincinnati, Atlanta, Orlando, Miami, New Orleans, and Baltimore with Leigh traveling there to supervise the final installation. Leigh was also involved with numerous urban improvement and renewal projects.
Leigh's career continued into the 1990's, and he died in 1999.
Art consultant, author; Nashville, Tenn.
Sculptor; New York, N.Y. b. Nov. 29, 1879, Bologna, Italy; d. Jan. 1, 1962, Rome
Frederick Keppel was the founder of Frederick Keppel and Co. and William Macbeth was his assistant who later founded the well-known Macbeth Gallery in New York City.
Painter; Jamaica, N.Y. and Rockport, Mass. Studied with Robert Henri and Max Weber.
Painter, printmaker, and sculptor; Santa Fe, New Mexico. Levin first gained prominence as a painter with his "Bar Room" series, consisting of crowded bar room scenes with satirical undertones. He works in the tradition of the social realists often using egg tempera as his medium.
Ira Licht (1938- ) is a museum director, curator and art historian in Miami, Florida. During his career he served as the curator at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago (1974-1976); coordinator of the Art in Public Places Program of the National Endowment for the Arts (1976-1978); and director of the University of Miami's Lowe Art Museum (1978-1989). Licht was closely connected with artists associated with 20th century minimalism, conceptualism, and land art. Artists who are represented by at least one piece of correspondence (postcards and/or letters) in the papers include: Duane Hanson, Pat Steir, Carl Andre, Ana Mendieta, Jackie Ferrara, Romare Bearden, Larry Bell, Robert Irwin, Adrian Piper, Lawrence Wiener, Dan Flavin, Laurie Anderson, Dan Graham, Robert Graham, Lynda Benglis, Dennis Oppenheim, Red Grooms and Christo.
Ira Licht is married to Jennifer Licht who was an associate curator at the Museum of Modern Art in New York.
Artist; Jonesboro, Ark.
The Linda Farris Gallery was Seattle's leading venue for contemporary art during its twenty-five years of operation.
Linda Farris opened Gallery East in Bellevue in 1970, and a year later moved to Pioneer Square in Seattle, changing the name to Linda Farris Gallery in 1973. The gallery continued to present contemporary art there until closing in December 1995. Art dealer Linda Farris began representing a group of promising artists, all graduates of the University of Washington. Greg Kucera of the Greg Kucera Gallery noted in an article for the Seattle Weekly, "Their work could be loosely seen as a movement, complete with aesthetic interrelationships, convenient marriages, an unintelligible manifesto in the form of Dennis Evans' quirky pronouncements…" From the same article he states, "Her avant-garde gallery changed forever the nature of being an art dealer in Seattle." It was among the three or four most influential galleries in the Pacific Northwest.
The gallery held exhibitions of many nationally known contemporary artists, including Sam Francis, Louise Nevelson, and Robert Rauschenberg, as well as Northwest artists Jeffrey Bishop, Dennis Evans, Sherry Markovitz, Nancy Mee, Norie Sato, and Patti Warashina. The latter group started with the gallery and remained loyal at the time of its closing in 1995.
Art dealer, collector and free-lance curator Linda B. Farris (1944-2005), a native of San Francisco and a graduate of the University of California, Berkeley (1966), was an active participant in and style setter for the Seattle art world for the twenty-five years she was in business. As a member of the art community she actively supported the Henry Art Gallery at the University of Washington, Pilchuck Glass School, and Seattle Art Museum's Contemporary Art Council, and served on the boards of directors of Henry Art Gallery and Factory Visual Arts. Farris curated "Eight Seattle Artists" in 1981 for the Los Angeles Institute of Contemporary Art and "Self Portraits" in 1983 for the Los Angeles Municipal Art Gallery. She also led the movement to keep Henry Moore's "Vertebrae" from leaving Seattle, and instituted a series of talks, panel discussions, performances, and tours in her gallery, and in and around Seattle.
This note draws heavily on the Archives of American Art's West Coast Regional Collector Paul Karlstrom's collection description written upon acquisition of the papers.
Jacques Lipchitz (1891-1973), an internationally known and influential Cubist sculptor, studied in Paris and established his career there. He fled Paris just before the German occupation, arrived in New York City in 1941, and eventually settled in Hastings-on-Hudson, NY.
Chaim Jacob Lipchitz was born in Druskieniki, Lithuania, then part of the Russian empire. His father, a building contractor from a well-to-do Jewish banking family, expected his son to study engineering as preparation for joining the business. Lipchitz, however, aspired to become a sculptor. With financial help from his mother, and determined to pursue his dream, he left for Paris after graduating from high school in 1909. Once there, Chaim Jacob soon became Jacques, the name he used throughout his life.
He first enrolled at the École des Beaux-Arts as a "free pupil." After his father agreed to provide an allowance, Lipchitz transferred to the Académie Julian to study with sculptor Raoul Verlet. He also attended evening drawing classes at the Académie Colarossi. By 1911 he was working in his own studio. Two years later, Lipchitz's entry in the Salon d'Automne received favorable recognition.
In Paris, his circle of friends and acquaintances grew to include Dr. Albert C. Barnes, Constantin Brancusi, Coco Chanel, Jean Cocteau, André Derain, Ernest Hemingway, Max Jacob, Charles-Édouard Jenneret (Le Corbusier), James Joyce, Fernand Léger, André Lhote, Jean Metzinger, Amédée Ozenfant, Pablo Picasso, Diego Rivera, Chaim Soutine, Gertrude Stein, and Virgil Tompson. Juan Gris and Amedeo Modigliani were his closest friends.
Lipchitz's earliest work was traditional. Exposure to Picasso and other avant-garde artists influenced his style, and by 1915 he was producing purely Cubist sculptures. In 1916, dealer Léonce Rosenberg offered Lipchitz a contract with a monthly stipend. Able to afford assistants, Lipchitz began much larger projects. Over time, as he came to feel that angular forms were devoid of humanity, his style gradually changed. In the 1920s, he began experimenting with "transparencies" - delicate abstract forms with large open spaces for which he developed casting techniques that influenced sculpture for a generation. In the 1950s, he began creating "semi-automatics." These were cast in bronze from forms made by submerging hot wax in water, which sometimes incorporated found objects. Much of Lipchitz's later work was massive, dynamic, and incorporated more naturalistic forms.
In the early 1920s, Lipchitz received multiple commissions from Coco Chanel and Dr. Albert C. Barnes. He became a French citizen in 1924, the year he married poet Berthe Kitrosser, with whom he had lived since 1915. (Their double portrait by Modigliani that Lipchitz commissioned in 1916, now titled The Sculptor Jacques Lipchitz and His Wife Berthe Lipchitz, is in the permanent collection of the Art Institute of Chicago). The following year they moved to a suburban home and studio designed by Le Corbusier.
Léonce Rosenberg's Galerie de l'Effort Moderne presented Lipchitz's first solo exhibition in 1930, and the first important Lipchitz exhibition in the United States was held in 1935 at Brummer Gallery, New York. As the sculptor's reputation grew throughout the 1930s, his work was very much in demand.
As World War II approached, Lipchitz sensed the impending horror of the Nazi regime but was extremely reluctant to leave Paris. With time running out, he finally was persuaded that it was too dangerous to stay. Jacques and Berthe Lipchitz departed for the free zone of Toulouse, and with help from American friends sought asylum in the United States. In June of 1941, they arrived in New York City with some clothing, a portfolio of drawings, and very little money.
Lipchitz, a mature artist with an international reputation, soon attracted invitations to teach. Although finances were tight, the offers were rejected because he understood that any commitment would impede his artistic output. In search of a gallery, he contacted Brummer Gallery, the site of his first American show six years earlier. Although Joseph Brummer had shifted his focus to antiques, he provided an introduction to art dealer Curt Valentin of Buchholz Gallery (later Curt Valentin Gallery), who was sincerely interested in modern sculpture. Valentin went on to represent Lipchitz for well over a decade. Curt Valentin Gallery closed in 1955, a year after the owner's death. Lipchitz then became affiliated with Fine Arts Associates and its many successors (Otto Gerson Gallery, Inc., and Marlborough-Gerson Gallery, Inc.), which represented him for the remainder of his life. Marlborough Gallery, Inc. handled Lipchitz's estate.
Berthe longed to go home after the war, and in 1946 the couple returned to France. But because he and France had changed, Lipchitz soon realized that his future lay in America. He returned to New York after seven months; Berthe remained, and a divorce soon followed.
Within the year, Jacques Lipchitz married Yulla Halberstadt, a fellow refugee who was also a sculptor. Their only child, Loyla Rachel, was born in 1948. The family moved to Hastings-on-Hudson, NY in 1949, and he continued to work at his studio on East 23rd Street in New York City. After a major studio fire in early 1952 destroyed commissions in progress and many other pieces, the sculptor set up a temporary work space at Modern Art Foundry, Long Island City, NY. Several museums, collectors, and friends, quickly raised funds for a new studio, which became a loan at Lipchitz's insistence. A new studio designed by Milton Lowenfish and located within walking distance of Lipchitz's Hastings-on-Hudson home opened in 1953.
During the course of his career, Lipchitz was honored with a large number of solo and retrospective exhibitions at major museums and galleries in Europe, North and South America, and Israel. His work is represented in the permanent collections of world renowned museums and is owned by a wide range of private collectors and institutions.
Lipchitz was an avid art collector. An exhibition of Scythian art at the Hermitage Museum, seen while on a brief trip home in 1912, greatly impressed and inspired him. The result was an intense interest in non-European art, especially African art. He began to collect appealing objects from other cultures, and soon developed a life-long habit of visiting flea markets, antique shops, and galleries on a regular basis in search of items for his growing collection. In addition to ethnographic and ancient art, Lipchitz also bought old masters and 19th century art, and developed a special interest in Géricault. The original collection was abandoned when he left Paris; once settled in the United States, he resumed collecting. A substantial portion of the Lipchitz Collection, with an accompanying scholarly catalogue, was exhibited in 1960 at The Museum of Primitive Art, New York City.
Lipchitz's family was observant and he attended Jewish schools that stressed religious education, but he showed little interest in his faith during his early adult life. However, the establishment of Israel affected him profoundly and, over time, religious themes emerged in Lipchitz's work. He began making arrangements for gifts of sculpture to the Bezalel National Museum and the Israel Museum, developed a friendship with Jerusalem's outspoken Zionist mayor, Theodore Kollek, and in 1963 made his first of many visits to Israel.
He was a Chevalier de la Légion d'Honneur, was elected a member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, and received awards for artistic achievement from the American Institute of Architects, Boston University, and Brandeis University. The Jewish Theological Seminary, New York, presented him an Honorary Doctorate of Laws degree.
Jacques Lipchitz died in Capri, Italy, May 16, 1973, and is buried in Israel. At his death, several large-scale sculpture commissions were left unfinished, and his wife Yulla took over the projects and saw that the installations were accomplished as planned. These posthumous installations include Government for the People, installed in Philadelphia in 1976, Bellerophon Taming Pegasus, installed at the Columbia University School of Law in New York City in 1977, and Our Tree of Life, installed in Jerusalem in 1978.
Bruce Bassett (1925-2009), a television and film producer, worked for NBC in New York for over 20 years. Bassett met the sculptor Jacques Lipchitz (1891-1973) when they were both living in Hastings-on-Hudson, NY. In 1968, Bassett initiated an extensive oral history project when he realized that Lipchitz, as an English speaker and participant in the birth of modernism in Europe, was the only living artist who could provide an oral record of the beginnings of modern art for an English audience.
From 1968, until his death in 2009, Bassett carried out extensive documentation projects regarding Lipchitz, often in his spare time, under the auspices of two organizations he founded: the Jacques Lipchitz Art Foundation (1968-1975) and Histor Systems (circa 1991-2001). In 1968 Bassett raised funds to enable Deborah Stott to travel to Italy and conduct roughly 200 hours of audio interview with Lipchitz, interviews which cover not only his own history, but also include a complete record of the origins of his extensive collection of primitive art, numbering almost 3000 objects at the time. Bassett himself traveled to Italy and filmed nearly 40 hours of additional interviews with Lipchitz in 1971.
Drawing from these filmed interviews, Bassett created a pioneering interactive program which allowed museum-goers to pose questions to Lipchitz and moments later receive answers in the form of video segments of Lipchitz speaking. He used the same footage to write, produce, and direct a one hour documentary, "Portrait of an Artist: Jacques Lipchitz." Both projects were originally presented to the public in tandem with a retrospective exhibition of Lipchitz's sculpture at the Metropolitan Museum in New York in 1972, and were later revised and updated several times for subsequent distribution and presentation. The last presentation of the interactive project documented in Bassett's papers was held at the Krannert Art Museum of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 2001. The interactive project is now online at the Israel Museum website entitled "Ask Jacques Lipchitz a Question," a project Bassett had been working on with Hanno Mott at his death. Bassett had visited the Museum several years earlier to demonstrate the video.
Bassett died in 2009 in New York, NY.
Littlefield was a painter, writer and art collector; New York, N.Y. Died 1969. Cummings, an art historian, was an expert on drawings and prints
DeWitt Lockman was a portrait painter, New York, N.Y. He studied in Europe, 1891-1892 and 1901-1902; a pupil of James H. Beard, Nelson N. Bickford and William Sartain; and was president of the National Academy of Design and records secretary of the New York Historical Society.
Art and literary periodical begun by Harold Loeb and Alfred Kreymborg in Rome, Nov. 1921.
Ernest Longfellow was a noted landscape painter and son of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. Harriet Longfellow, his wife, was a painter also. They resided in New York City and in Magnolia, Mass.
Artists; Philadelphia and New York. James Barton Longacre was an engraver and portrait painter. Chief engraver at the U.S. Mint, Philadelphia, from 1844-1869. His engravings and portraits illustrate several books including THE NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY OF DISTINGUISHED AMERICANS, and BIOGRAPHY OF THE SIGNERS OF THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE. His son, Andrew Longacre was an engraver, watercolorist, and Methodist minister. His daughter, Lydia Longacre was a miniature painter, pupil of the Art Students League of New York, under Chase and Mowbray, and under Whistler in Paris.
Sylvia Loomis was an art teacher in New York, New York.
Painter, art instructor; Wilmington, Del. Loper studied at the Barnes Foundation.
Joe Lopez (1945- ) is a painter and founder of the Gallista Gallery (1996-2016) in San Antonio, Texas.
Lopez grew up in El Barrio Escondido, a neighborhood in San Antonio. He was introduced to art through his Uncle Basilio, a folk artist. While a student at St. Anthony Shrine School, Lopez gained the attention of one of the nuns which led to a scholarship to attend the Witte Museum Art School. He also attended La Villita School of Art, the San Antonio School of Art, and was awarded a scholarship to McNay Art Museum school. Lopez trained with artists Warren Hunter, John Squire Adams, Finis Collins, and Jesus "Chista" Cantu. Because Lopez was born with one hand, artist Jesse Treviño was an inspiration to Lopez for his ability to paint with one hand.
Lopez's paintings often feature gallos, the Spanish word for roosters, because they symbolize strength and pride in Chicano and Mexican American culture. Lopez opened his own gallery in 1996 because he was having difficulty booking exhibitions at other galleries. The original name of the gallery was Puro Gallo, and he changed the name to Gallista Gallery in 1998. Gallista was coined by Lopez to describe those who supported him during a five year court battle with E and J Gallo Winery. The wine company initiated the lawsuit against Lopez over the use of the word "gallo." The gallery became a bedrock of the community, fostering the talents of local Latino artists long after the lawsuit ended.
Early in his career, Lopez worked in the art department for Dillard's and Centeno's supermarket before becoming employed in the graphics department at Fort Sam Houston, a U.S. Army post in San Antonio. He retired in 2007 from Fort Sam Houston after 22 years.
Lopez's work has been exhibited at the McNay Art Museum, Laguna Gloria Art Museum, and other museums throughout Texas. His paintings have been featured on posters and covers of music albums including Taquachito Nights: Conjunto Music from South Texas produced by Smithsonian Folkways Recordings and Puro Gallo by Los Padrinos.
Painter; Edgecomb, Maine. Student 1951-1953 and close friend of painter, graphic artist and teacher Carl Nelson. Nelson was born in Sweden; studied at the Art Students League, N.Y., with Kimon Nicolaides. In 1964, Lorence bought a house near Nelson's in Maine. Nelson died Aug. 6, 1988 in Elmhurst, Ill.
William Cushing Loring (1897-1959) was an American painter and teacher born in Newton Center, MA. He studied at Boston Museum of Fine Arts, Chase's Art School in New York, Academie Colarossi and Academie Delecluse in Paris, and for two years in Holland and London. Loring was best known for his portraiture. He was appointed head of the painting and drawing department at the Rhode Island School of Design in 1905, and taught at La Salle Junior College in Auburn, Massachusetts from 1921 to 1939.
Art patron and collector, Los Angeles, Calif. Collections deal with South Seas and Western paintings.
Lotte Jacobi Place, Hillsboro, N.H. Founded by Lotte Jacobi of Deering, N.H. Born in Germany and moved to New York City in 1935. Studied at the Bavarian Academy of Photography, University of Munich and with her father. Was a well known portrait photographer, active in Berlin, 1927-1935. Fled Nazi Germany and opened a studio in New York. Best known for her portraits of Einstein, Eleanor Roosevelt, Robert Frost, Steichen, Stieglitz and Paul Strand. Also known for her "photogenics"--cameraless abstract light prints. Died 1990.
Louis Comfort Tiffany established this foundation for art students in 1918, "as an art institute, the objects and purposes of which are art education directed toward both art appreciation and production..." He deeded to it his art collections, gallery, chapel and country estate in Oyster Bay, New York. The foundation is noted for its scholarships to art students.
The art department of the Lousiana Exposition was responsible for the art exhibition for the St. Louis World's Fair, 1904. Halsey C. Ives was the chief of the department, Charles M. Kurtz was the chief assistant, and Frederic Allen Whiting was the superintendent of Applied Arts.
California painter and art historian Janice Lovoos (1903-2007) attended the Chouinard School of Art in Los Angeles where she learned mural painting and illustration, and also studied rug and textile design. As a writer and art historian Lovoos documented the art of Southern California and was a contributing editor to American Artist magazine for almost 50 years.
Historian and photographer, born 1933, Yonkers, N.Y. Studied at Yale University, BFA'56, MA'60, Bollingen fellow '60-63, PhD'64. His GRAVEN IMAGES OF NEW ENGLAND was published in 1966 and again in 1975 by Weslyan University Press. Works in platinum printing and silver gelatin printing.
Glen Lukens (1887-1967) was a ceramicist, educator, and writer active in Southern California. He taught at the University of Southern California where he founded the school's ceramics department and later established the ceramics industry in Haiti.
Glen Lukens was born in Missouri and attended the Oregon State Agricultural School where he was introduced to ceramics. He proved to be an innovator and created a blue glaze made out of metals he found in the Mojave desert. Lukens was active with a group of studio ceramicists, including Beatrice Wood, who elevated the artform through writing, innovation, and teaching. Lukens created simple pottery with bold color and glazing techniques. He spent much of his career teaching ceramics at the University of Southern California but also worked with glass and created jewelry.
In the 1940s, Lukens traveled to Haiti to teach ceramics and establish an industry for the creation of pottery on the island. Lukens was focused on teaching Haitians to use sanitary clay vessels for food rather than gourds. He formed friendships with many of his students and encouraged their further study of ceramics in the United States.
Glen Lukens died in Los Angeles in 1967.
Illustrator, painter, cartoonist, lecturer, teacher; born in Williamsport, Pennsylvania. Recent scholarship shows 1866 as his birth date rather than 1867, as has been previously accepted. Studied at Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, in Dusseldorf, Berlin, Munich, London, and Paris. Worked on the staff of the Philadelphia Press, the Philadelphia Bulletin, and the New York World newspapers. Created the comic strips Hogan's Alley, and The Yellow Kid. Was an outspoken member of "The Eight" who exhibited at Macbeth Gallery, NYC, 1908. Taught at Art Students League, was influential not for his methods, but for his strong personality. Known as a hard drinker, his works were imbued with gusto as he captured slum life in NYC.
Art historian, administrator, museum director. Died 1973. MacAgy was chosen to revitalize the 70 year old California School of Fine Arts in San Francisco, after WWII, then he was a special consultant to the director of The Museum of Modern Art in New York, as director of research for an art dealer in New York, as director of the Dallas Museum for Contemporary Arts, and he was Director of National Exhibitions at the National Endowment for the Arts, 1968-1972.
Stanton Macdonald-Wright (1890-1973) was a painter in Los Angeles, California.
Stanton Macdonald-Wright (1890-1973) was the creator of a modernist style of painting based on pure spectral color known as chromatic abstraction or "Synchromism." He worked in New York and later primarily in Los Angeles.
Stanton Macdonald-Wright was born in 1890 in Charlottesville, Virginia. In 1900 the family moved to Santa Monica, California where they ran a seaside hotel. A few years later he took courses at the Art Students League in Los Angeles, studying under Warren T. Huges. His older brother was Willard Huntington Wright, a respected art critic who wrote Modern Painting: Its Tendency and Meaning (1915), upon which he collaborated with his younger brother Stanton, and The Future of Painting (1923), and later became a detective novelist under the name S. S. Van Dine.
At the age of seventeen, Stanton Macdonald-Wright married his first wife and moved to Paris where he immersed himself in European art and studied at the Sorbonne, the Académie Julian, the École des Beaux-Arts, and the Académie Colarossi. While in Europe he also befriended fellow American painter Morgan Russell and the two artists began working closely together. They studied with Canadian painter Percyval Tudor-Hart between 1911 and 1913 and were deeply influenced by their teacher's color theory, which connected the qualities of color to those of music. Together Macdonald-Wright and Russell developed a style of painting based on color and named it "Synchromism." They introduced their work in 1913 at the Der Neue Kuntsalon in Munich and in Paris at the Galerie Bernheim-Jeune. These exhibitions helped to establish Synchromism as an major influence in modern art well into the 1920s.
Stanton Macdonald-Wright and Morgan Russell returned to the United States eager to promote their work and theory. It was not long before the two separated, but both continued to work in the Synchromist style. Together, they held one more Synchromist exhibition in New York in 1916 which received significant critical support. Macdonald-Wright also participated in the prestigious 1916 "Forum Exhibition of Modern American Painters" in New York and exhibited his work at Alfred Stieglitz's famed 291 gallery in New York in 1917. Yet, financial success evaded him.
Macdonald-Wright moved to Santa Monica in 1918, where he taught and served as director of the Los Angeles Art Students League. In 1924 he published his instructive Treatise on Color. In 1927 he organized another joint exhibition with Morgan Russell at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, where he also exhibited five years later. He exhibited at the Oakland Art Gallery, the California Palace of the Legion of Honor in San Francisco, Alfred Stieglitz's An American Place gallery in New York, and the Stendahl Galleries in Los Angeles. From 1935 to 1942 Macdonald-Wright served as director of the Works Progress Administration's Federal Art Project for Southern California, followed by a faculty position at the University of Southern California at Los Angeles where he taught for sixteen years.
In the late 1950s, Macdonald-Wright completed the Synchome Kineidoscope, a color and light projecting machine first envisioned by Macdonald-Wright and Morgan Russell as early as 1913.
Macdonald-Wright traveled extensively throughout the 1960s and early 1970s, spending time in Hawaii, Italy, and Japan. Macdonald-Wright married three times and died in California in 1973, at the age of 83.
This biographical note draws heavily on the Archives of American Art's West Coast Regional Collector Paul Karlstrom's collection description written upon acquisition of the papers.
Writer. Author of AUBREY BEARDSLEY: THE CLOWN, THE HARLEQUIN, THE PIERROT OF HIS AGE.
Still life and portrait painter; New York, N.Y.
Ethel Magafan (1915 or 6-1993) was a mural and landscape painter from Colorado. Painted murals for the WPA. Jenne Magafan was her twin sister.
Charles A. Mahoney was a student at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston School. Fellow students included Sanford B. D. Low. Mahoney went on to become president of the Boston Society of Water Color Painters; Low, the director of the New Britain Museum of American Art.
Figure sculptor; New York, N.Y.
Sam Maloof (1916-2009) was a woodworker and furniture maker in Alta Loma, California.
Abraham Manievich (1881- 1942) was a painter in the Bronx, N.Y.
Photographer, photography historian and critic; Davis, Calif.
Sculptor; New York, N.Y.
Joseph Margulies (1896-1984) was a portrait painter in oil and watercolor, etcher, and printmaker, in East Gloucester, Mass. Born in Austria. Came to U.S. at three years old. Painted portraits of President Eisenhower, Vice President Nixon, Herbert Hoover, Albert Einstein, Franklin D. Roosevelt and Wendell Willke. Library of Congress lists death date as 1983.
Marian Locks Gallery was an art gallery in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, established in 1968. The name changed to Locks Gallery around 1990. The gallery mainly showed the work of contemporary Philadelphia area artists.
Phyllis Mark (1921-2004) was a sculptor active in New York City, New York. She is known for kinetic sculpture and later transformed her pieces as ready-to-wear jewelry and executed a number of large-scale works.
The Mark Rothko Foundation was established in 1969 by artist, Mark Rothko. Donald Blinken became the Foundation's president in 1976.
Painter, mural painter, architect and sculptor, Ormand Beach, Fla. Used industrial themes, historical motifs and new metals and materials. Father of Reginald Marsh.
John Marshall (1936- ) is a metalsmith and educator in Edmonds, Washington. Marshall was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania in 1936. His interest in art began at approximately the fifth grade, when both he and his brother received scholarships to Saturday drawing classes at the Carnegie Museum. Marshall then entered into the U.S. Army following high school, for which he served primarily in Germany until 1957. Able to travel around during this time, Marshall became more interested in metalworking and other forms of art. After the military, Marshall returned to Pennsylvania to attend Grove City College and work construction, specifically pipelining. He ultimately transfered to Carnegie Tech (now part of Carnegie Melon University). In 1960 he began school at the Cleveland Institute of Art, learning from Kenneth Bates, John Paul Miller, and John Clague, and alongside Winifred Lutz. He received his B.F.A. from Cleveland in 1965.
Marshall received a teaching position as head of Syracuse University's metals program. Once there, Marshall worked with Laurence Schmeckebier to complete his M.F.A.; Schmeckbier was also instrumental in exhibiting Marshall's artwork at this time. Looking to establish himself as a metalsmith, he became associated with others in his field such as Olaf Skoogfors, Fred Fenster, and Stanley Lechtzin, and became involved with the Soceity of North American Goldsmiths. After his time in Syracuse, Marshall went to the University of Washington in 1970 where he remained for the rest of his teaching career.
Marshall has held one-man shows at the Lowe Art Center, Syracuse University, Henry Art Gallery, University of Washington, and Concepts Gallery in California; and has had his work featured in group shows at the Museum of Concemporary Crafts, Renwick Gallery, and the Laguna Art Museum. He has received many public and private commissions throughout his career to create trophies, cups, bowls, and sculptures, most notably a 16-foot sculpture for the United Methodist Church in Edmonds, Washington.
Painter and educator, New York, N.Y. Taught at Cooper Union, University of Michigan, Yale University, Brooklyn Music School, Pratt Institute, Cornell University, Silvermine College of Fine Arts and State University College, Purchase.
Lila Harnett is an art collector, critic, and patron in Paradise Valley, Ariz. Harnett and her husband Joel purchased works by Reginald Marsh from the Frank K.M. Rehn Galleries in the 1960s, through director John Clancy. Among the collections in the Joel and Lila Harnett Museum of Art and the Print Study Center at the University of Richmond are several works by Marsh.
Painter, illustrator, etcher; New York, N.Y.
Ezio Martinelli (1913-1980) was a painter and sculptor who worked mainly in New York.
Martinelli was born on November 27 in West Hoboken New Jersey. He studied at the Academy of Fine Arts, Bologna. He then returned to the United States and from 1932 to 1936 studied at the National Academy of Design in New York with Leon Kroll and Gifford Beal studying drawing with Ivan Olinsky and sculpture with Robert Aiken.
Martinelli taught at the Philadelphia Museum School, Sarah Lawrence College, Parsons School of Design, the American Academy at Rome, and the Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture. He participated in the Federal art project Works Progress Administration (WPA) from 1937 to 1941 as an easel painter and unit supervisor. His works can be found in multiple museums and organizations including the United Nations, The Art Institute of Chicago, the Brooklyn Museum of Art, The Whitney Museum of American Art, and the New York Public Library.
Martinelli died in 1980 in Saugerties, New York.
Giovanni Martino (1908-1998) was a painter in Blue Bell, Pennsylvania. Martino and his six brothers formed Martino Studios in Philadelphia, where Giovanni worked as a graphic artist. Martino's wife, Eva (1916-2012), and daughters Babette (1945-2011) and Nina F. (1942- ) are also artists. Martino studied at the Philadelphia Graphic Sketch Club, Le France Art Institute, Spring Garden Institute, and Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts. He specialized in urban landscape painting and regularly exhibited his work in solo and group exhibitions. In the 1960s, the family moved from Philadelphia to a house in Blue Bell, where each member could have their own painting studio.
Martyl (1917-2013) was a painter in Chicago, Illinois. Full name is Martyl Schweig Langsdorf.
Painter, mural painter and art educator, New York, N.Y. Born in Cleveland, Ohio. Dean of Art Students League in New York. Received Cross of Malta for murals of the life of St. Anthony of Padua in Venice, Italy, the first person to be awarded this honor in 400 years and the first American to receive this honor. Mason painted in the style of the Old Masters.
Established 1873 as the Massachusetts Normal Art School. Name changed in 1930 as Massachusetts School of Art. and again in 1959 to Massachusetts College of Art.
Painter, mural painter, mosaicist, and educator, Grand Rapids, Mich./Providence, R.I.
Dan Mato is a collector, dealer, and painter; Columbus, Ind. Onya La Tour was a collector, dealer, artists' model and founder of the Indiana Museum of Modern Art, Brown County, Indiana.
Robert B. Mayer (1910-1974) and Beatrice C. Mayer (1921-2018) were art collectors in Chicago, Ill.
Painter, sculptor, writer, and inventor. Maynard was a resident and Treasurer of the Tenth Street Studio Building, N.Y.C.
The Maynard Walker Gallery was an art gallery in New York, New York, founded by Maynard Walker in 1935. Walker previously worked for the Ferargil Gallery in New York where he began his professional relationship with the artists John Steuart Curry, Thomas Hart Benton, and Grant Wood. In 1938, Walker opened another gallery in Hollywood, California. Walker was a primary promoter of the Regionalists during the 1930s and 1940s. Walker retired in 1967 and died in 1985.
Staff member, M.H. De Young Memorial Museum, San Francisco, Calif.
Watercolorist, San Francisco, California. Born in Tasmania, Australia. Came to California in 1898. Jury member of the Panama-Pacific Exposition, and president of San Francisco Society of Artists. Married to painter Gene Frances McComas.
Painter; San Francisco, California. Married to Francis John McComas, a painter of landscapes and murals.
Fred W. McDarrah (1926-2007) is a photographer, New York, N.Y.
Painter. After graduation from Kemper Military School in 1905, he entered art school in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania in 1907. In the following year, he studied under Birge Harrison at the Art Students League summer classes in Woodstock, New York. In 1937 he was the director of the Museum School of Art in San Antonio, Texas. He moved to Claremont College in 1947 to teach in the graduate school.
Painter, illustrator; San Antonio, Texas.
Painter and educator, St.Louis, Missouri. Born in Indianapolis, Indiana. Fulbright Fellowship, 1955. Taught at Reed College, Indiana University and Washington University in St. Louis.
Painter and sculptor; New York City. McGowin was born in 1938 in Hattiesburg, Mississippi and grew up in Mississippi and Alabama, receiving the M.A. from the University of Alabama. He has had one-person exhibitions at the Corcoran Gallery in Washington, D.C.; the Baltimore Museum; and the Museum of Modern Art of the City of Paris, France. Since 1979, McGowin has executed major outdoor commissions for numerous public and private organizations, often collaborating with his wife, Claudia DeMonte.
Mary K. McGuigan and John F. McGuigan Jr. are art historians and collectors in Milford, Pennsylvania.
Art dealer and art historian, New York, N.Y. President and director of the Macbeth Gallery and nephew of William Macbeth.
Painter, printmaker, illustrator; New York, N.Y.
Painter, illustrator, etcher and art instructor. Worked in New York City and Rockport, Massachusetts. Born in Ogden, Utah. Studied at Art Students League for 3 months. Taught illustration and composition at Art Students League from 1931 on. Illustrator for local daily papers and magazines prior to that.
Sculptor, furniture designer; New York, N.Y. Born 1929. Died 2005.
Painter and educator, Houston, Texas. Born in New York, N.Y. Attended Harrison School of Fine Arts, Atelier Leger in Paris and Studio Hinna in Rome. Taught at Harrison School of Fine Arts, Studio School of Contemporary Art, University of Houston, Rice University and Hill County Arts Foundation. Summer School Director, Museum of Fine Arts. Mears died in 1999.
Melamed is a collector and patron, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Castellon was a painter, etcher, lithographer and illustrator in Brooklyn, N.Y. (born in Almeria, Spain)
Painter, mural painter and portrait painter. Lived at "Belmont", his home in Falmouth, Virginia, near Fredericksburg. Born in Detroit, Michigan. Studied at Royal Art Academy, Dusseldorf, Germany; and Ecole des Beaux-Arts and Academie Julian, Paris. Won Grand Prize at 1889 Paris Exposition along with John Singer Sargent. Received LL.D. from the University of Michigan. Painted portrait of President Theodore Roosevelt in 1908. Invited to paint murals for the Library of Congress and the Chicago World's Columbian Exposition of 1893. Member of the International Board of Judges at the Chicago Exposition. President of the New Society of Artists, 1920-1929.
Architect, San Francisco, California. Born in Allenstein, East Prussia. Studied at Technische Hochschule in Munich. Worked in Germany, England, Israel and the United States. Designed memorial to the 6 million Jews killed during World War II.
Painter; New York, N.Y. b. 1923
Art galleries; Houston, Texas and New York, N.Y. Owned and directed by Meredith Long. Businesses included Davis and Long, 746 Madison Ave., NYC; Meredith Long Contemporary, 7 W. 57th St., NYC, and Meredith Long and Company, 2323 San Felipe, Houston, Tex. Specialized in 19th and 20th century American art. Long is a Trustee and member of the Board of Directors at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston and Contemporary Arts Museum.
Landscape painter, illustrator; New York City. One of The Ten American Painters. Worked in Southwest U.S. painting Zuni Indians 1881-1883; associated with artists' colonies in Old Lyme, Conn., and Cornish, N.H.
Meyers and Wildenhain were both ceramists, Meyers in Athens, Ga., and Wildenhain in Rochester, N.Y.
William Meyerowitz (1887-1981) was born in Ekaterinoslav, Ukraine, Russia, and moved to New York as a child, later becoming a painter and etcher. He was married to Theresa Bernstein (1890-2002), an art historian and painter born in Poland and raised in Philadelphia. Bernstein was part of the Philadelphia Ten.
Begun 1976. Last issue Winter 1982. Published by Sylvia Murphy, as an outgrowth of the Michigan Artists' Registry. The quarterly was designed as a vehicle for artists to publish their work.
Duane Michals (1932- ) is a photographer in New York, New York. Born and raised in Pennsylvania, Michals received his Bachelor's degree from the University of Denver in 1953, after which he served for two years in the Army. In 1956 he moved to New York City, and began studying graphic design at Parsons School of Design. Although he did not complete his studies there, he developed an interest in photography and began working as a commercial photographer for magazines. In addition to his commercial work, Michals has been exhibiting his photographs in galleries and museums since the 1960s.
Sculptor, assemblage artist and art instructor, Birmingham, Mich. Born Spokane, Wash. Studied at Yale University School of Music, Eastern Washington University and the Cranbrook Academy under Zoltan Sepeshy. Taught at Cranbrook, Wayne State University and University of Windsor.
Vera Michels (1894-1990) was a painter in Greenbrae, California. She studied under George Demont Otis.
The Emil Milan Research Project was founded in 2008 by Barry Gordon, Norm Sartorius, and Phil Jurus to document the career and life of woodworker Emil Milan (1922-1985).
Art dealer, painter and administrator; Washington, D.C.; b. 1929; d. 1982. Founded the WASHINGTON INTERNATIONAL ARTS LETTER in 1962, a newsletter "concerning 20th century patronage, support programs and developments," particularly government support.
Carl Milles was a sculptor. His wife, Olga, was also an artist. Milles was born in Lagga, Sweden, the son of Major Emil ("Mille") Andersson. He derived his name from the inversion of his father's nickname "Milles (Mille's) Carl". He was apprenticed to a cabinetmaker and studied for 3 years at the Technical School in Stockholm, during which time he befriended sculptor John Borjeson. Between 1897 and 1900, Milles studied at the Ecole des Beaux Arts. While in Paris, he met artist Olga Granner, whom he married in 1905. In 1902, Milles gained recognition in Sweden with his design for the Sten Sture monument. Milles also studied at the Cranbrook Academy of Art in Michigan and became a citizen of the United States in 1945.
Donated 2013 by Olivia P. Millard, Everett L. Millard's daughter.
Robert Mills (1781-1855) was born in 1781 in Charleston, South Carolina. As a teenager he studied pattern-books and learned the basics of drafting, and in 1800 he moved to Washington, DC, to work in the office of architect James Hoban. There he met President Thomas Jefferson who recommended Mills to Benjamin Latrobe. He was a pupil and assistant to Latrobe in Philadelphia until 1808, working on many architectural and engineering projects.
In 1808 Mills married Eliza Barnwell Smith and established his architectural practice in Philadelphia, receiving many major commissions. From 1815 to 1819 Mills lived with his family in Baltimore, Maryland, overseeing the construction of his commission for the Washington Monument in Baltimore. He also worked on several engineering projects in the city. After construction halted in 1819 due to an economic depression, he moved to South Carolina to become the Acting Commissioner of the Board of Public Works. In 1823 his position was abolished due to rising project costs, but he continued to work on individual commissions, and also published several books and pamphlets on South Carolina and engineering.
 In 1830 Mills and his family moved to Washington, DC. There he directed alterations and restorations of the White House, Executive Offices, and the Capitol. After establishing himself with these projects he received many more commissions and was appointed Architect of the Federal Buildings. During this time his design for the Treasury Building was adopted, and he oversaw the construction of the U. S. Patent Office - now the Smithsonian Institution's Donald W. Reynolds Center for American Art and Portraiture - and the Old Post Office, among other projects. His federal office was abolished in 1842, but Mills continued to work on independent building projects. In 1845 his plan for the Washington Monument in Washington, DC, which he had designed in 1833, was adopted and construction began in 1848. He lived in Washington, DC, until his death in 1855.
Painter, educator; Austin, Texas.
Millicent Rogers Museum is located in Taos, New Mexico, and it was founded in 1956 by Paul Peralta-Ramos. The museum was established as a museum in memory of his mother, Millicent Rogers. The museum collects and exhibits art and artifacts related to the Southwest.
Art historian; Boston, Mass. Extensively researched Surrealist painter Kay Sage.
Museum director; Cleveland, Ohio; d. 1978. Milliken was the curator of the Cleveland Museum of Art, 1919-1958, and director of the museum from 1930-1958.
Painter, instructor; San Francisco and San Diego, California.
Painter and instructor; San Diego, California.
Fred Mitchell (1923-2013), a painter and educator who worked in New York City, was among the first artists to open a studio in Coenties Slip on the East River in downtown Manhattan.
A native of Meridian, Mississippi, Madison Fred Mitchell (always called Fred), won a Scholastic Magazine award and his work was shown in its "15th Annual National High School Art Exhibit" held at the museum of the Carnegie Institute in 1942. Mitchell studied at the Carnegie Institute of Technology for a year before entering the U. S. Army. After World War II ended, he resumed his education at Cranbrook Academy of Art (BFA 1946 and MFA 1956). He moved to New York in 1951 and became a member of the "Downtown Group." In 1952 he was among the organizers of Tanager Gallery and in 1954 founded the Coenties Slip School of Art.
Mitchell enjoyed a long career as a highly regarded teacher of drawing, painting, and art history. He taught at Finch College, the Positano Art Workshop in Italy, and Cranbrook Academy in the 1950s. During the 1960s, he was affiliated with Downtown Art Center at Seamens Church Institute in Coenties Slip, New York University, Cornell University, and Ithaca College. In the early 1970s Mitchell taught at Queens College, and from the mid-1980s-early 2000s served on the faculties of Parsons School of Design, Art Students League of New York, and City University of New York's Kingsborough Community College in Brooklyn.
He exhibited widely in group shows and solo exhibitions in the New York area and throughout the United States. Among these venues were: Howard Wise Gallery, Meridian Museum, Munson-Williams-Proctor Art Institute, State University of New York Binghamton, University of Oregon, and Whitney Museum of American Art.
After several years of declining health, Fred Mitchell died in New York City in 2013.
Kenworth Moffett (1934-2016) was an art critic, curator, and art museum director in Massachusetts and Fort Lauderdale, Florida.
Moffett studied art history at Columbia University and earned a PhD from Harvard University in 1968. A champion of Color Field painting, he wrote critical essays and reviews for major art periodicals including Artforum and Art International throughout the late 1960s to 1970s.
From 1968 to 1979, Moffett was a professor of art history at Wellesley College. In 1971, he was made founding curator of twentieth-century art at the Boston Museum of Fine Arts, where he organized exhibitions of sculptor Anthony Caro and painters Jules Olitski, Barnet Newman, and Friedel Dzubas. He also curated the first museum exhibition of realist Albert York. In 1989, Moffett was appointed director of the Museum of Art Fort Lauderdale, where he remained until 1997. Moffett died in 2016.
Painter and etcher; Medfield, Mass. Born Cold Spring, N.Y. Studied etching under G.N. Cass and painting under George Inness. Painted sheep.
Monroe is a painter, educator, art historian; New York, N.Y.
Evangeline "EJ" Montgomery (1930- ) is an African American artist, curator, and arts administrator in California and Washington, D.C.
Montgomery was born in New York and moved to Harlem in New York City after the divorce of her parents, Oliver and Carmelite Thompson. Upon graduating from Seward Park High School in 1951, Montgomery worked painting faces on dolls and statues. In 1955, she married Ulysses "Jim" Montgomery and moved to Los Angeles. In California she began working for jewelry designer Thomas Usher while attending Los Angeles City College. She continued her education at California College of the Arts (California College of Arts and Crafts) where she received her Bachelor of Fine Arts degree in 1969. During the late 1960s, Montgomery began curating exhibitions. From 1971 to 1976, she was curator for Rainbow Sign Gallery in Berkeley. Other roles Montgomery held were as the national exhibits workshop coordinator at the American Association for State and Local History and as program development consultant at the African American Museums Association. From 1976 to 1979, she was art commissioner for the city of San Francisco.
Montgomery moved to Washington, D.C. in 1980 to serve as the community affairs director for Howard University's WHMM-TV station. She then began working for the United States Information Agency (USIA) as a program officer in their Arts America program in the early 1980s. In her role, she worked to promote cross-cultural exchanges through art, specializing in American exhibitions touring abroad. Montgomery retired from the USIA in 2008.
As an artist, Montgomery gained recognition for her work in printmaking and metalworking. She was the recipient of the D.C. Commission on the Arts and Humanities fellowship in 2012 and an Excellence in the Arts Award from the Brandywine Print Workshop in 2004. Due to her diagnosis of Parkinson's disease in the 1990s, Montgomery had to stop working with metal but continued her printmaking work.
Tracy Montminy (1911-1992) was a muralist and painter in Columbia, Missouri. Also known as Elizabeth Tracy, Montminy produced multiple murals for the Works Progress Administration.
Art gallery; Houston, Texas Owned by Elizabeth C. Moody. Shows mainly Houston area artists.
Architect; Austin, Tx. Died Dec. 16, 1993. Received his Architecture degree in 1947 from the University of Michigan; and in 1957 he received his Ph.D. in Architectural history from Princeton University. Taught at UC Berkeley, Yale, and UCLA. He has partnerships in several architectural firms: MLTW (Moore, Lyndon, Turnball, Whitaker); Urban Innovations Group; Moore, Grover, Harper; and Moore, Ruble, Yudell. Major projects include the Sea Ranch Residential Resort (1964-1965) and Piazza d'Italia in New Orleans (1975-1978).
Painter, illustrator; New York, N.Y.
Sculptor; Philadelphia, Pa.
Painter, sculptor; San Francisco, California.
Painter. Born 1918. Died 1979.
Portrait painter and inventor Samuel Finley Breese Morse (1791-1872), was a founding member of the National Academy of Design who was subsequently known for his invention of the Morse code.
Morse was born in Massachusetts and educated at Yale College. In 1811 he traveled to England and was admitted to the Royal Academy. He returned to the United States in 1815 and began a career as a painter, primarily of portraits.
From 1826-1845 he served as president of the newly founded National Academy of Design in New York City. In the 1830s Morse developed the concept of a single-wire telegraph and the Morse code, and was involved in the growth of the commercial use of telegraphy throughout the world. Morse was also known for his portraits of the Marquis de Lafayette, and presidents John Adams and James Monroe.
Writer, editor; Sarasota, Florida.
Painter; Venice, California. Moses was born in Long Beach, Calif., 1926. He studied, and later taught at the University of California, Los Angeles. He also taught at the Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture (Me.), and California State College.
Painter and printmaker; New York, N.Y. Born in Poland. Studied at the Art Students League. Editor, Shorewood Publishers, Inc.
Art historian; Stamford, Conn.
Abstract expressionist painter. Close friend of Baziotes.
Art historian.
Ugo Mulas (1928-1973) was a photographer in Milan, Italy who photographed sculptor David Smith.
Buell Mullen (1901-1986) was a muralist and portrait painter active in New York City and Chicago, Illinois. She developed a process for painting on stainless steel.
Buell Mullen was born Frances Vedder Buell in Chicago, Illinois. Drawn to its ability to reflect light, Mullen developed a technique combining etching and acid treatments to ensure oil paintings adhere to stainless steel. Her first work on stainless steel was a portrait of General John J. Pershing. Later, she produced a portrait of President Dwight Eisenhower. She completed many murals for steel companies, colleges, and institutions around the Great Lakes region. Also, she served as a United States representative to UNESCO.
Buell married J. Bernard Mullen and together they had two sons. Mullen died in Chicago, Illinois in 1986.
James Mullen (1935- ) is a professor of art and Dean of Humanities and Fine Arts, Emeritus, New York College, Oneonta, New York.
Painter, educator; Santa Monica, Calif. d. 1998.
Daphne Mumford (1935- ) is a painter and poet in New York City, New York. She studied at Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture in the early 1950s and exhibited at Area Gallery, among many others.
Landscape painter and engraver. Birth date given as both 1836 and 1837. Munger worked early in his career as an engraver for the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C. Later he painted many scenes of Niagara Falls, Venice, and the Barbizon country of France. He lived many years in Paris before returning to the U.S. in 1893.
Photographer Nickolas Muray (1892-1965) lived and worked in New York, New York and was known for his portrait, fashion, and advertising photography and for his mastery of the carbro color printing process.
Born in Szeged, Hungary, Muray spent time in Budapest as an engraver's apprentice and moved to Germany at the age of 16 to expand his technical knowledge of photo-engraving and photography. In 1913, Muray immigrated to America where he worked as a photo engraver at Stockinger Engraving Co. and eventually opened his own photography studio in 1920. After successfully completing a commission to photograph Broadway star Florence Reed, Muray continued to build his portfolio with regular commissions for Harper's Bazaar and Vanity Fair to photograph movie stars, artists, musicians, artists, and models. In the 1930s, Muray mastered the carbro printing process and established one of the first color labs in America. His color fashion and advertising work continued to appear regularly in Vogue, Ladies' Home Journal, Woman's Home Companion, McCall's and other periodicals.
In addition to his professional work, Muray wrote reviews for Dance magazine and represented the United States in 1928 and 1932 as a member of the Olympic fencing team. He maintained a long distance affair with artist Frida Kahlo throughout the 1930s, eventually ending the relationship but remaining friends until her death in 1954. In 1942, Muray married his fourth wife, Margaret (Peggy) Schwab, with whom he had a daughter, Mimi. Muray died of a heart attack in 1965.
Author, writer; New York, N.Y.
Marion Lowndes from Palisades, N.Y. was a close friend of artist, Gerald Murphy. Murphy was a painter, born in Boston, Mass. and lived in Palisades, N.Y. He was active in Europe around 1921, and painted in an abstract style.
Portrait painters (wife and husband).
California-born Nelly Littlehale Murphy (1867-1942) was a painter, illustrator, and etcher active in Massachusetts. She was noted for her watercolor paintings of landscapes and flowers.
Littlehale was married to Herman Daniel Umbstaetter from 1893-1913, and provided illustrations for The Black Cat magazine which her husband edited. Her second marriage, in 1916, was to painter Hermann Dudley Murphy.
Visionary artist from Athens, Georgia. Birthdate also cited as 1907. Also known as J.B. Murry. Raised in rural central Georgia. Untrained as an artist, he began drawing and painting when a dislocated hip forced him to retire from farming. Although unable to read and write in English, he developed his own codified use of colors and improvised script, called "spirit script," which he incorporated in his paintings as a visual element and which only he could translate. His work has been included in several Southern exhibitions of Black isolated artists.
The Museum of Craft and Folk Art was established in San Francisco, California by painter and sculptor Gertrud Parker in 1982. The museum was originally located in a house on Balboa Street and then moved to the Fort Mason Center where it operated for over twenty years before relocating to Yerba Buena Lane in 2006.
Notable exhibitions organized or held at the museum include Innerskins/Outerskins: Gut and Fishskin (1987), Who'd A Thought It: Improvisation in African-American Quiltmaking (1987-1988) which was a traveling exhibition, Folk Art of the Soviet Union (1990), MetalSpeaks: The Unexpected (1997), Emblems of Passage: Art of Africa, Oceania, and the Americas (2002), The Art of Gaman: Arts and Crafts From the Japanese Internment Camp 1942-1946 (2006), and Warren MacKenzie: Legacy of an American Potter (2009).
The museum also worked with artists on commission and regularly offered public programs, workshops, and educational outreach events for visitors of all ages. They also partnered with the website Etsy on a popular monthly "Craft Bar" series where people could gather, socialize, and create something handmade.
The Museum of Craft and Folk Art closed in December of 2012. The final exhibition was Fiber Futures: Japan's Textile Pioneers.
Denys Peter Myers (1916-2003) was an architectural historian in Washington, D.C. Myers served in the Monuments, Fine Arts, and Archives section in the U.S. Army during WWII. After the war, Myers completed a master's degree from Columbia University.
Sculptor, illustrator. Myers was married to the artist Jerome Myers.
George Nakashima (1905-1990) was a Japanese American architect, craftsman, woodworker, and furniture designer in New Hope, Pennsylvania. He was born in Spokane, Washington and received a bachelor's degree in architecture from the University of Washington in 1929. He also earned a master's degree from Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1930.
After his studies, Nakashima traveled around the world by steamship. He spent time in France, North Africa, and Japan. While in Japan, he began working under architect Antonin Raymond. When Raymond's architecture company was commissioned to build for the Sri Aurobindo ashram in Puducherry, India, Nakashima became the onsite architect as well as a devotee of Sri Aurobindo. When World War II began, Nakashima returned to the U.S. with his wife, Marion, whom he met in Japan. George, Marion, and their infant daughter Mira were sent to a Japanese internment camp in Idaho in 1942. The Nakashimas were able to leave the camp after Raymond sponsored their release in 1943. Nakashima began working on Raymond's farm in Bucks County, Pennsylvania, where he eventually built his workshop. Nakashima's son Kevin was born after the family relocated to Pennsylvania.
Nakashima's design work includes furniture lines for the Widdicomb Furniture Company and Knoll Furniture, and 200 pieces of furniture commissioned by Nelson Rockefeller. He also wrote a book titled The Soul of a Tree: A Master Woodworker's Reflections.
Nakashima died in 1990.
Andy Nasisse (1946-) is a ceramicist sculptor, potter, and former professor at the University of Georgia. Starting in the 1970s, he visited self-taught artists and photographed their art, environments and, in some cases, conducted interviews with them. He has had a solo exhibition at the Museum of Contemporary Art Georgia and is the recipient of the Art Regional Fellowship from the National Endowment for the Arts.
Miles Carpenter (also known as Miles Burkholder Carpenter or Miles B. Carpenter) (1889-1985) was a sculptor active in Waverly, Virginia who carved figures and animals from wood and referred to some as "advertisements."
Tessie Carroll was an Oklahoma folk artist known for her rock sculptures and carvings.
Eldren M. (E.M.) Bailey (1903-1987) was an African American sculptor and painter from Atlanta, Georgia whose sculptures were influenced from his background making grave markers.
Emanuel "Litto" Damonte (1892-1985) started collecting hubcaps in 1957 and created an art environment on his property in Napa Country, California, known as Hubcap Ranch.
Samuel Perry (S.P). Dinsmoor (1843-1932) was a Kansan sculptor who designed a sculpture garden at his home called the Garden of Eden," consisting of over 200 concrete works reflecting his religious and political beliefs.
Sam Doyle (1906-1985) was an African American artist born on St. Helena, an island off the coast of South Carolina, whose colorful paintings document the island's people and Gullah culture.
John Ehn (1887-1981) was a former trapper turned sculptor who decorated the landscape of his Californian motel, Old Trapper's Lodge, with sculptures depicting myths and the Old West.
Howard Finster (1916-2001) was a Georgian folk artist and Baptist minister known for his former home, Paradise Garden, consisting of constructions, found objects and sculptures.
Laura Pope Forrester (1873-1953) was a sculptor who created figurative works in her Georgian garden that depicted notable women and fictional characters.
Dilmus Hall (1896-1987) was an African American artist whose sculptural works are associated with religious customs that combine African traditions and Christianity.
Irene Hall was an Oklahoman artist who decorated her home with sculptural works she had made with found objects.
Bessie Harvey (1929-1994) was an African American folk artist from Tennessee who created wooden sculptures often inspired by nature.
Eddie Owens Martin "St. EOM" (1908-1986) was a Georgian artist who created a visionary art environment called Pasaquan.
Jeff McKissack (1902-1980) is the creator of The Orange Show, an art environment constructed in Houston Texas to honor his favorite fruit.
John Milkovitch (1912-1988) was a retired upholsterer who constructed the Beer Can House, by decorating his home with over 50,000 fattened beer cans.
J. B. Murry (1910-1988) (also known as J.B. Murray) was an African American painter who incorporated illegible text in his work which he interpreted with the use of a bottle of well water.
Tressa "Grandma" Prisbrey (1896-1988) constructed numerous structures out of bottles and found objects at her home creating what became known as Grandma Prisbrey's Bottle Village.
Dow Pugh (1906-1993) was an artist from Tennessee who created paintings and sculptural works.
W. T. Ratcliffe was an engineer who, in the 1930s created sculptures in Boulder Park in Jacumba, California.
William Carlton Rice (1930-2004) was a self-ordained minister who created a Cross Garden around his home in Alabama.
Royal Robertson (1936-1997) was an African American artist and self-proclaimed prophet from Louisiana whose work incorporated biblical themes, and references to "girlie magazines" and comic strips.
James "Son Ford" Thomas (1926- 1993) was an African American sculptor and blues musician from Mississippi who is known for his clay skull sculptures.
Mose Tolliver (1919-2006) was an African American folk painter from Alabama who painted with house paint on wood.
Frank van Zant "Chief Rolling Mountain Thunder" (1921-1989) was an Oklahoman artist who created a park in Nevada dedicated to the American Indian known as Thunder Mountain Monument.
Brother Joseph Zoettl (1878-1961) was a monk who constructed a miniature city of famous religious buildings at St. Bernard Abbey known as Ave Maria Grotto.
Illustrator, cartoonist; New York, N.Y.
Nathaniel Saltonstall, an architect and art collector, was one of the founders of the Institute of Contemporary Art (ICA) in Boston, Massachusetts. He was President from 1936-1948, and 1960-1961; and Honorary President from 1961-1968. He was also a long-time trustee of both the ICA and the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. In 1959, he established the "Nathaniel Saltonstall Arts Fund" in memory of his parents. Through auctions and sales of works in his collection, numerous schools, colleges, museums and galleries have received gifts from the fund and/or had the opportunity to show work not otherwise available.
The National Arts Club was founded by Charles de Kay, literary and art critic for the New York Times who believed there was a need for a club uniting all of the arts. In March of 1898, de Kay called together a number of civic leaders and men prominent in the art world who supported the idea, elected the first officers and incorporated the Club in 1899.
As stated in a circular issued by the Club, its specified purposes were: to promote the mutual acquaintance of art lovers and art workers in the United States; to stimulate and guide toward practical and artistic expression the artistic sense of the American people; to maintain in the City of New York a Club House...for social purposes in connection with the arts; to provide proper exhibition facilities for such lines of art, especially applied and industrial art, as shall not be otherwise adequately provided for in the same City; and to encourage the publication and circulation of news, suggestions and discussions relating to the fine arts.
During its initial months, the National Arts Club operated from a temporary office at 156 Fifth Avenue. In the search for a permanent site, considerable care was taken to select an auspicious location and accommodations, and in 1899 the first clubhouse was opened at 37 West 34th Street in leased quarters renovated expressly for the Club. Within a year, the gallery and restaurant required additional space, and there was a desire to provide overnight quarters for members visiting from out of town. In 1901 the Club created a corporation, Arts Realty Co., which issued shares to members and other investors for the purpose of raising funds to purchase the adjacent property (39 West 34th Street). This end was accomplished, and when it was decided to move the Club to another location, proceeds from the sale of the lease on 37 West 34th Street and the lot next door, augmented by additional funds subscribed by members, enabled Arts Realty Co. to acquire the Tilden Mansion at 15 Gramercy Park in 1905. Construction was begun immediately on a connecting studio tower to the rear (119-121 East 19th Street), designed by architect and Club President George B. Post. Upon completion, the Club bought the property from Arts Realty Co., issuing both First and Second Mortgage Bonds to individual subscribers. The Gramercy Park property has been occupied by the Club since 1906.
A show of American gold and silver work in October 1899 was the first exhibition held at the National Arts Club. Decorative arts, crafts, and industrial arts figured prominently in early exhibitions, as did designs for civic improvements. The monthly exhibition schedule emphasized contemporary American art, but also included some historical shows. Members of the public were admitted without charge to the galleries, where they could view such innovative and important exhibitions as Pictorial Photographs presented by the Photo-Secession (1902) and a group exhibition featuring the works of Robert Henri, William Glackens, George Luks, Arthur B. Davies, and Maurice Prendergast (1904). After about 1907, exhibitions grew more conservative, probably reflecting the personal tastes of Art Committee members rather than a formal opposition of the Club to nonrepresentational art. Increasingly, the exhibition schedule was filled by shows of members' work, the Club's permanent collection (mainly works by artist members, usually given in payment for life membership), the Annual Arts and Crafts exhibitions, Books of the Year exhibitions, and shows organized by various art societies.
In addition to exhibitions, the National Arts Club regularly featured a variety of cultural programs such as concerts, lectures, and dramatic presentations for members and guests. Parties, dinner, dances, and other social activities drew members to the Club, too. During its first years, some artist members expressed dissatisfaction with the high priority given social functions; by 1905, J. Carroll Beckwith, Walter Shirlaw, and Stanford White were among those who had resigned for this reason.
Within the National Arts Club there have been some smaller societies. The earliest of these were The Discus, a short lived dining and debating club, and The Vagabonds, a lunch group of writers, editors, printers and illustrators. The Men's Open Table, founded in 1910, met weekly for more than forty years for dinner followed by a talk, given by a fellow member or an outside, often professional, lecturer. A wide range of topics, not necessarily on the arts, were presented and discussed at the Men's Open Table. The American Institute of Graphic Arts is one of the organizations said to have developed from associations formed and discussions held at the Men's Open Table. A Women's Open Table, patterned after the men's, was established later.
The National Arts Club, unlike many other private clubs founded during the same era, admitted women members from its inception. Throughout its history, the Club's membership has been comprised of artists, musicians, writers, and performers, as well as collectors and supporters of the arts drawn from all parts of the country. Membership peaked at around 1,800 in 1920, declining throughout the Depression and again in the mid-1950s, and remaining at about 600 for the next two decades.
1898 Founding; occupied temporary office at 156 Fifth Ave.
1899 Incorporation; leased clubhouse at 37 West 34th St.; opened first exhibition, American Gold and Silver Work
1900 Constitution adopted
1901 First donations to permanent collection; Arts Realty Co. formed for the purpose of acquiring and financing the adjacent property (39 West 34th St.)
1905 Arts Realty Co. purchased Gramercy Park property (Tilden Mansion) on behalf of NAC; remodeling of clubhouse and construction of studio tower begun
1906 Plan for financing new clubhouse approved; second Mortgage Bonds issued; clubhouse and studio tower occupied; First Annual Books of the Year Exhibition
1907 Annual Members' Exhibition initiated; Bulletin began publication
1910 First meeting of Men's Open Table (established 1909)
1914 Essay contest, "A Critical Estimate of the Altman Collection"
1917 American Artists War Emergency Fund Committee issues art stamp
1923 Junior Artist membership category created
1930-1931 Essay contest, "Soul of America"
1940 Works by deceased artist life members deaccessioned from permanent collection; fund for refugee artists established
1962 Clubhouse designated New York City Landmark
1976 Clubhouse designated National Historic Landmark
1987 NAC records donated to Archives of American Art The National Collection of Fine Arts, a branch of the Smithsonian Institution, changed its name through an act of Congress to the National Museum of American Art in 1980. The Syncroma machine creates constantly changing visual images using sonic inputs supplied by the artist.
Originally named The Mural Painters, the National Society of Mural Painters (NSMP) was founded in 1895 in New York City by a group of artists, including John W. Alexander, Kenyon Cox, Edwin Blashfield, and John LaFarge, who were concerned with the design and execution of mural art for architecture in the United States. The organization's first president was Frederic Crowninshield. For well over one hundred years members of NSMP have created significant and monumental works of art across the country. Many significant American artists have been members and served as past presidents, such as George Biddle, Hildreth Meiére, Arthur S. Covey, Allyn Cox, Helen Treadwell, and Xavier Gonzales, among many others.
Since its founding, the NSMP has collaborated with the Fine Arts Section of the Treasury Department, the federal WPA Arts Project, and the design boards of several World's Fairs. As a member of Artists for Victory, NSMP coordinated the execution of murals for barracks and camps, as well as many triptych altarpieces.
NSMP organizes exhibitions and conducts competitions. In celebration of its one hundredth anniversary, a centennial exhibition was held in October 1995 at the Art Students League. Society members work with other organizations, actively sponsoring legislation for the development and commission of public works of art. Still active today, the current president is Jeff Greene.
The National Museum Services Board is the policy making and priority setting arm of the Institute of Museum Services (IMS). IMS was created by the Museum Services Act as an independent agency within the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities to make grants to museums in areas of operations, conservation, assessment, and professional services.
Founded in 1893 The society works with architects, art councils, and sponsoring committees in selecting sculptors to execute new works. Assists government art councils with advice on rules for competitions and in preparing exhibitions. Conducts research, maintains an archives and library, and sponsors exhibitions and competitions.
Elizabeth S. Navas (1885-1979) was an art collector and patron in New York City. Navas was designated to assemble the Roland P. Murdock Collection of the Wichita Art Museum under the terms of the will of her friend, Louise Caldwell Murdock (1858-1915), widow of Roland P. Murdock.
Portrait painter; Philadelphia, Penn. Neagle studied under Bass Otis. Influences on Neagle's work include Thomas Sully and Gilbert Stuart. Neagle's painting "Pat Lyon at the Forge" was exhibited at the Pennsylvania Academy in 1827 and brought him notoriety. Neagle married Sully's step-daughter, Mary, in 1826.
Lisa Nebenzahl is a film producer from Minneapolis, Minn. Nebenzahl produced a film about Yunkers.
Alice Neel (1900-1984) was a painter in New York, NY. She was known for her portraits of New York artists and intellectuals. Neel studied painting at the Philadelphia School of Design for Women (now the Moore College of Art and Design) from 1921-1925. She married Cuban artist Carlos Enríquez, and they briefly lived in Havana, Cuba. After the break-up of their marriage, she settled in New York City. During the 1930s she worked for the Public Works of Art Project and the Works Progress Administration, painting scenes of urban poverty and developing her distinctive portrait style. She pursued a career as a figurative painter during a period when abstraction was favored, and she did not begin to gain critical praise for her work until the 1960s. Neel received an honorary doctorate from the Moore College of Art and Design in 1971 and a retrospective of her work was held at the Whitney Museum in 1974. During the last decade of her life she finally received extensive national recognition for her paintings. Neel was also a notable public speaker and often spoke on the topic of women artists.
LeRoy Neiman has been described as the most popular living painter in America. While strikingly original, his work reflects the varied influences of Toulouse-Lautrec, Dufy, the New York Social Realists, and the Abstract Expressionists. Probably best known as a portrayer of sporting and social events, he virtually invented the modern genre of sports art and remains its most accomplished and acclaimed practitioner.
Among many other accomplishments, he was the first and only on-camera official artist for ABC-TV at the Olympics in Munich, 1972 and Montreal, 1976, and covered several other winter and summer Olympiads as an official artist. He was the first artist to create live, on-camera computer art while covering the 1978 Super Bowl in New Orleans for CBS-TV. In 1997 he was selected as the first official artist of the Kentucky Derby. But Neiman's interests range far and wide. As a painter, printmaker, and author, his subjects have included Parisian cafés, African safaris, famous bars, five-star restaurants, urban street scenes, the opera, political figures, jazz musicians, entertainers, stage and screen stars, gambling casinos, portraits, international stock exchanges, and much more.
For the past quarter-century, Neiman has created limited-edition serigraphs (silk-screen prints). Published and distributed exclusively by Knoedler Publishing, they are sold in selected galleries throughout the United States. By one estimate, the more than 150,000 Neiman prints that have been purchased to date have an estimated market value exceeding $400 million. Neiman is the author of twelve books: Horses, LeRoy Neiman Posters, Winners, which was also published in Japanese, Big Time Golf, LeRoy Neiman: An American in Paris, LeRoy Neiman on Safari, and LeRoy Neiman: Five Decades, all published by Harry N. Abrams, as well as Art and Life Style, Carnaval, Monte Carlo Chase, Casey at the Bat, and the newly-released limited edition LeRoy Neiman Sketchbook: Liston vs. Clay 1964/ Ali vs. Liston 1965, 2004. Knoedler Publishing has published The Prints of LeRoy Neiman, Volumes I-III, a catalogue raisonnes on Neiman's limited edition prints.
Over the years the artist has donated scores of his artworks to dozens of charitable causes and organizations. Through his work with the Good Tidings Foundation, two LeRoy Neiman Art Centers for Youth have been built in elementary schools in California. In 1995, he gave the School of the Arts at Columbia University in New York City an endowment of $6 million to create the LeRoy Neiman Center for Print Studies, dedicated to the study of fine art printmaking and the development of new methods of printmaking, and including a scholarship program. A 1998 donation led to the creation of the LeRoy Neiman Center for the Study of American Culture and Society at UCLA.
Neiman's work is represented in the Art Institute of Chicago, the Whitney Museum, the Minneapolis Museum of Art, the Hermitage of St. Petersburg and numerous other museums and public and private collections worldwide. A past member of the New York City Advisory Commission for Cultural Affairs, Neiman has received five honorary degrees and, among other honors, an Award of Merit from the American Athletic Union, a Gold Plate Award from the American Academy of Achievement, and a Lifetime Achievement Award from the Muscular Dystrophy Association, in addition to being named Boxing Artist of 1966 by Lonsdale, London.
1921 Born June 8 in St. Paul, Minnesota.
1942-46 Leaves high school to enlist in the army; serves four years in Europe.
1946 Studies at the St. Paul Gallery and School of Art with Clement Haupers.
1946-50 Student at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago; studies with Boris Anisfeld; studies liberal arts at University of Illinois and De Paul University, Chicago.
1950-60 Member of the Faculty, School of the Art Institute of Chicago, teaching figure drawing and fashion drawing.
1952 Exhibits in Twin City Show at Minneapolis Institute of Arts; wins Chicago Art Directors Award.
1953 Begins using enamel house paints; develops interest in drawing horse racing at Arlington Park; wins First Prize for painting "Idle Boats", a purchase prize, at Twin City Show, Minneapolis Institute of Art.
1954 Begins association with Playboy magazine illustrating Charles Beaumont story, which wins Chicago Art Directors Award; exhibits for first time in Chicago Artists and Vicinity Show, where he continues to show for next six years; wins Second Prize, Minnesota State Show; exhibits at Philadelphia Art Alliance.
1955 Instructor of painting at Elmwood Park Art League and North Shore Art League; exhibits at the Carnegie Pittsburgh International Exhibition of Contemporary Painting; creates the "Femlin" symbolic character which appears in Playboy for next 47 years; wins New York Art Directors Award.
1956 Included in "New Talent in America in 1956", published in Art in America, February 1956; delves deeper into Chicago sports scene, draws Chicago Bears, Blackhawks and boxing.
1957 Exhibits in Corcoran Gallery of Art "American 25th Biennial Exhibition", Washington, D.C.; awarded most popular prize out of 3,000 entries as well as the juried Clark Memorial Prize and Vicinity Show; first television appearance on Art Institute of Chicago TV show, "Artist's Choice"; painting instructor at School of the Art Institute of Chicago Summer Session and for two years at Ox-Bow Summer School, Saugatuck, Michigan teaching landscape painting; marries art student Janet Byrne.
1958 Exhibits at the "Society of Contemporary American Art Exhibition", Art Institute of Chicago, for three years; begins extensive travels for Playboy magazine, creating a feature on the high life called "Man at His Leisure", which appears regularly for the next 15 years; wins Municipal Art Award at "Chicago Artist and Vicinity Show", and Hamilton & Graham Cash Prize, Ball State Teachers College Drawing Show, Muncie, Indiana.
1959 Holds one-man show of racing scenes at Arlington Park Race Track, Chicago; shows in "Jazz Exhibition" and "Social Observation and Comment in Art Show" in Chicago.
1960 Paints at Squaw Valley Winter Olympic Games; travels six months through Europe covering sporting and social events, the Grand National Steeplechase, Epsom Derby, Ascot, and the Oxford-Cambridge boat race in England, Maxim's Tour d'Argent, the Lido and Folies Bergere in Paris, the Cannes Film Festival and St. Tropez, Fiesta de San Isidro bullfights in Madrid, the Grand Prix in Monaco auto race.
1960-1970 Executes over one hundred paintings and two murals for eighteen Playboy Clubs.
1961 Takes studio in Paris; does studies of Deauville social season and sketches the great restaurants of France; sketches Dublin Horse Show and cricket at Lord's in London; wins gold medal for oil painting at the "Salon d'Art Moderne", Paris.
1962 Sketches Bordeaux wine country, Paris fashion shows, racing at Longchamp, and Giraglia Yacht Race on Riviera; paints Regatta of the Gondoliers in Venice; does studies of Fellini directing "8 ½" and sketches at Cine Citta studios in Rome; visits U.S. to work on commission for 12 paintings of the Indianapolis 500.
1963 Returns from Paris; establishes a studio in New York; teaches painting at Arts and Crafts, Inc., Winston-Salem, North Carolina; holds first one-man exhibition in New York at Hammer Galleries; travels to Mexico with Shel Silverstein; sketches in Mexico City and Acapulco.
1964 Starts series of Muhammad Ali sketches and paintings which spans the next 15 years; sketches America's Cup Challenge at Newport, Rhode Island; returns to England to sketch London night life and Prince Phillip playing polo at Windsor; paints the Tour de France in Paris.
1965 Commemorates Sugar Ray Robinson with 8' x 6' portrait "Farewell to Boxing" unveiled at Madison Square Garden ceremony; paints portrait of Mae West and poet Marianne Moore.
1966 Sketches Kentucky Derby; in London paints personalities and scenes including the Beatles and Carnaby Street, Kenneth Tynan, Sir Ralph Richardson; paints surfing in California; executes mural for Swedish-Lloyd Ship, S. S. Patricia; creates art for film "Casino Royale"; sketches indoor polo for opening of Houston Astrodome.
1967 Sketches and paints leading figures in the arts, sports and entertainment world, including Leonard Bernstein, Joe Louis, Frank Sinatra, Brigitte Bardot and ballerina Suzanne Farrell; paints "24 Hours of LeMans", nudist scenes on the Dalmatian Coast of Yugoslavia, the Fiesta at Pamplona, the dolce vita of Rome.
1968 Paints the Kirov and Bolshoi ballets in Russia; is named artist-in-residence from the bench of the New York Jets football team; executes critical sketches of the 1968 Democratic National Convention in Chicago; paints Bobby Hull for Time magazine cover; contributed drawings for Harpers magazine articles on Cassius Clay and on Bobby Kennedy and race relations; initiates art class for Atlanta Poverty Program.
1969 Sketches civil rights figures and teaches art in Atlanta Poverty Program; creates poster for Kurt Weill Off-Broadway show and program cover for Oh! Calcutta; sketches New York City Ballet; appears regularly on TV as New York Jets artist-in-residence; collaborates with Dave Anderson on book, Countdown to Super Bowl; covers horse racing at Ascot and Longchamp, camel racing in Morocco.
1970 Paints backdrop for Broadway play Borstal Boy and does album cover for Fifth Dimension; exhibits in the Time magazine "Covers Show" at the National Portrait Gallery of the Smithsonian Institution, Washington D.C.; sketches sporting and social events in Dublin, and holds one-man show at the Abbey Theatre; travels with Hugh Hefner in Europe, Greece and Africa; sketches wildlife on safari in Africa; creates poster for Ali-Quarry fight, Ali's return to the ring in Atlanta; paints $100,000 baseball players for book, This Great Game; paints New York Stock Exchange.
1971 Has one-man exhibition at Museo de Bellas Artes in Caracas; travels to Monte Carlo, London, Paris and Switzerland; develops interest in printmaking; creates two-part TV program on the art of lithography and produces etchings and lithographs at Atelier Weber in Zurich; creates official poster and draws pre-fight sketches of Ali-Frazier Super Fight I at Madison Square Garden for The New York Times Magazine cover and post-fight sketches for ABC-TV; illustrates Jose Torres' book on Ali, Sting Like a Bee.
1972 Covers Fischer-Spasky world champion chess tournament at Reykjavik, Iceland and Munich Olympic Games, both on camera for ABC-TV; covers World Series for NBC-TV; creates serigraph of Knicks-Lakers championship game; paints Super Bowl for Time magazine cover; and cover for Golf Digest.
1973 Creates Super Bowl art for CBS-TV; sketches the Masters Golf Tournament for Golf Digest magazine; paints commission for Museum of Jazz; creates serigraph of Triple Crown winner Secretariat; sketches Foreman-Frazier fight in Jamaica; travels on multi-city tour and exhibit of Olympic serigraphs; nineteen serigraphs chosen by the Hermitage Museum, St. Petersburg, for its permanent collection.
1974 Has exhibition in Tokyo and sketches sumo, baseball and horse racing for Japanese TV; covers Stanley Cup hockey playoffs for NBC-TV; creates poster for Newport Jazz Festival and for next 5 years; creates poster for Ali-Foreman fight in Kinshasa, Zaire, and for Frank Sinatra concert at Carnegie Hall; Art and Lifestyle is published.
1975 Creates official St. Paul Bicentennial poster; given major retrospective at the Minnesota Museum of Art; creates official program cover for World Series; creates poster for Ali-Frazier III and paints cockfights in Manila; creates first of four annual posters for Robert F. Kennedy Pro-Celebrity Tennis Tournament; book The Artist's Limited Edition of Moby Dick is published.
1976 Paints mural on camera as ABC-TV Official Artist at Olympic Games, Montreal; paints on French Riviera; holds one-man show at Knoedler Gallery in London; exhibits in national invitational "Watercolor USA Show" at Springfield Art Museum, Missouri, and "Drawings USA Show" at the Minnesota Museum of Art; paints Harlem scene for Jazzmobile poster; paints Chris Evert for Saturday Evening Post cover.
1977 Holds one-man shows in Stockholm and Helsinki; works in Paris; paints NBA All-Star game; creates poster for Lacrosse USA.
1978 Performs first live execution of computer art for CBS-TV coverage of Super Bowl, New Orleans; creates poster for Bill Bradley senatorial campaign; creates poster for Ali-Spinks II match in New Orleans.
1979 Appointed Grand Marshal with Jesse Owens at The Drake Relays in Des Moines, Iowa; paints the Ginza, Kamakura Buddha, Mount Fuji in Japan, Royal Ascot in London, and Pan-Am Games in Puerto Rico, for CBS-TV; book Horses is published.
1980 Appointed Official Artist of the 1980 Lake Placid Winter Olympic Games and Official Artist of the Democratic National Convention, New York; paints commission for Caesar's Palace, Las Vegas; sketches Carnaval in Rio de Janeiro; presents painting commemorating signing of Arab-Israeli peace treaty at Camp David to President Carter at the White House; book Posters is published.
1981 Holds two-man exhibition with Andy Warhol at Los Angeles Institute of Contemporary Art, California; executes 24' x 16' portrait of Sylvester Stallone for Rocky film; creates art and appears as ring announcer in Rocky films II, III, IV and V; book Carnaval is published.
1982 Has one-man exhibition at Harrod's, and paints the "The Stock Exchange, London"; creates poster for Kool Jazz Festival; paints and exhibits in Tokyo.
1983 Has one-man exhibitions in Los Angeles, San Francisco and New Orleans; executes billboard, television commercial and program for Lido show at the Tropicana, Las Vegas; book Winners is published.
1984 Appointed Official Artist, Winter Olympics, Sarajevo, Yugoslavia and Summer Olympics, Los Angeles.
1985 Returns to Brazil to paint Gavea Golf and Country Club in Rio de Janeiro and stock exchange in Sao Paulo; named Honorary Marshal at St. Paul Winter Carnival; Japanese version of Winners is published.
1986 Appointed Official Artist, Goodwill Games in Moscow for Turner Broadcasting Network; paints America's Cup commission for the New York Yacht Club.
1987 Paints and makes video documentaries of Old St. Andrews in Scotland and the Riviera in France; paints Indianapolis 500 auto race commission; presents "Minute Man" poster to President Reagan at the White House.
1988 Holds one-man exhibitions in Japan and Moscow; executes mural for Golden Nugget, Las Vegas; paints commission for the Caribbean Classic at Caliente Racetrack in Tijuana, Mexico; paints and makes video documentary of "Napoleon at Waterloo"; book Monte Carlo Chase is published.
1989 Paints Frank Sinatra, Liza Minelli and Sammy Davis, Jr. at Royal Albert Hall, London; sketches the World Series at Candlestick Park in San Francisco during earthquake; does sketches and paintings and video documentary of New York's Central Park, and holds exhibition at the boathouse in the park.
1990 Executes commemorative painting for 100th anniversary of Los Angeles Dodgers; holds one-man exhibition for inaugural Grand Prix auto race in Denver; paints the Masters Golf Tournament in Augusta, Georgia; travels and sketches in Rome, Paris and Hong Kong.
1991 Executes commissioned paintings for 25th anniversary of Spectrum Stadium, Philadelphia, and 10th anniversary of Miami Grand Prix and of Joe Morgan and Jim Palmer for Baseball Hall of Fame induction; travels to Japan to paint geishas, the Ginza and golf; creates Michael Jordan serigraph and poster; works on sketchbooks and paintings in Paris and Berlin.
1992 Paints Tom Seaver for Baseball Hall of Fame induction; paints suite of four famous golf courses in conjunction with publication of Big-Time Golf; works on sketchbooks and paintings in Venice, Milan and Rome; honored by the Art Institute of Chicago as an outstanding alumnus; commissioned to paint Bobby Orr by Polaroid.
1993 Paints Reggie Jackson for Baseball Hall of Fame induction, Larry Bird for Boston Garden, and Iroquois Steeplechase, Nashville; creates poster for CBS-TV film Call of the Wild; holds one-man exhibition at the Kentucky Derby Museum; paints Frank Sinatra for cover of "Duets" album.
1994 Paints Pebble Beach Golf Clubhouse; creates poster for CBS-TV film The Yearling, attends and paints Super Bowl XXVIII in Atlanta; paints in Monte Carlo and Venice; goes on to paint safari in Kenya; sketches Luciano Pavarotti at Metropolitan Opera; paints Frank Sinatra for "Duets II" album; book An American in Paris is published.
1995 Paints Babe Ruth for the Baseball Hall of Fame, U.S. Open at Shinnecock Golf Course, and Rockefeller Center; creates 40-foot mural on Broadway theater for Tommy Tune's musical, Busker Alley; gives 30-year retrospective exhibition at the Kentucky Derby Museum; appointed a member of the New York City Advisory Commission for Cultural Affairs; honored by Playboy for the 40th anniversary of the Femlin character.
1996 Commissioned by United Nations to create six postage stamps for the Centennial Olympic Games in Atlanta; paints Super Bowl XXX in Phoenix, Arizona; honored by Boxing Writers and England's Lonsdale Boxing Club; paints "Hall of Famer" for the Baseball Hall of Fame's permanent art exhibition; creates serigraph of "The 3 Tenors", Placido Domingo, Jose Carreras, Luciano Pavarotti.
1997 Inauguration of the LeRoy Neiman Center for Print Studies at Columbia University, New York; introduction of LeRoy Neiman Selection Cigar; narrates and appears in film documentary on Cuba and cigars, Rhythm and Smoke; creates poster commemorating 50th anniversary of Jackie Robinson's breaking of racial barrier in Major League Baseball; creates first official Kentucky Derby poster; travels to South Africa to present commissioned portrait of President Nelson Mandela; book LeRoy Neiman on Safari is published.
1998 Inaugurates LeRoy Neiman Center for Study of American Culture and Society, UCLA, Los Angeles; unveils baccarat painting for Desert Inn, Las Vegas; exhibits and participates in seminar on Frank Sinatra at Hofstra University; paints and creates serigraph of Joe DiMaggio; creates label for Duval-Leroy champagne; creates official poster for Breeders' Cup, Louisville; cover art for Good Will Games New York official program, and for article in The Nation; honored at Ox-Bow Gala at the Art Institute of Chicago, and by Sportscasters.
1999 Creates art for Givenchy perfumes; presents portrait of Mark McGwire and creates serigraph edition commemorating record home run hitter. Paints John Elway and creates serigraph celebrating retirement from football; releases serigraph of Mickey Mantle; participates in Olympic Games seminar on Queen Elizabeth II ocean liner crossing; gambling prints installed in Salle Privée at Paris Casino in Las Vegas; creates poster for Taxicab Chronicles Off-Broadway play; visits Havana to sketch Cuban rhythms. Sketches Army-Navy game in Philadelphia for West Point commission.
2000 Creates boxing painting for use as poster for Heavyweight Explosion cable TV program; book The Prints of LeRoy Neiman 1991-2000 is published; releases serigraphs of Mike Piazza and Cal Ripken, Jr.; the first LeRoy Neiman Art Center for Youth is opened in San Francisco; commissioned to create artwork for 125th Preakness Stakes and 2000 PGA Championship Tournament at Valhalla Golf Course.
2001 Salutes Muhammad Ali as "Athlete of the Century" with oversized portrait and limited edition serigraphs. Commissioned to paint Mardi Gras official poster for 2002; commissioned to paint Phoenix Suns star Charles Barkley on retirement of uniform number; commissioned to paint UCLA basketball coach John Wooden; holds retrospective drawing exhibition at the Fairfield Public Gallery, Sturgeon Bay, Wisconsin; creates poster for 2001 All-Star Jockey Championship; attends 25th year reunion of ABC-TV coverage of 1976 Munich Olympics. Commissioned by New York City Fire Department to commemorate September 11 terrorist attack for benefit of NYFD Widows and Orphans Fund; creates image of NYFD fireman's helmet and for the first time allows an image to be used and sold on t-shirts; also donates original painting to auction for Widows and Orphans Fund. Honorary Chairman at the annual Bare Walls event at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago; the second LeRoy Neiman Art Center for Youth is opened in Watsonville, California; the largest serigraph yet by artist, "Circus", having image size of 43 ¾" x 65", is completed after 2 years work.
2002 Commissioned to paint Wayne Gretzky, Gold Medal winning coach of the Canadian Olympic Hockey Team; commissioned to create official tournament poster for the first U.S. Open to be held at a public golf course, Bethpage on Long Island, New York; illustrates "Casey at the Bat", published as a trade edition by Ecco Press, with Foreword by New York Yankees manager Joe Torre; creates the Tyson/Lewis poster for the boxing heavyweight championship fight in Memphis; creates the official poster and program cover for the Oscar de la Hoya/Fernando Valenzuela championship boxing match in Las Vegas; honored with a tribute dinner at the Friar's Club in New York City; painting of Earvin "Magic" Johnson and Larry Bird is unveiled during Johnson's induction ceremonies at the Basketball Hall of Fame; Gallagher's Steak House in New York City unveils a permanent collection of Neiman artwork portraying the city's greatest athletes; receives Lifetime Achievement Award for contributions to golf and sport art at the Art of Golf Festival at Pinehurst Resort in North Carolina; inducted into the New Jersey Boxing Hall of Fame.
2003 Unveiled commissioned painting of the racehorse Funnycide at Saratoga; opens exhibition "LeRoy Neiman on Safari" at the Wildlife Experience museum in Denver, CO; S.T. Dupont releases special edition LeRoy Neiman Golf pen and lighter set; mounts exhibition "LeRoy Neiman in Cuba" at the Pratt Institute; paints the Breeders Cup at Santa Anita; publishes book LeRoy Neiman: Five Decades with Harry N. Abrams.
2004 Commissioned to paint poster design for the 2005 Special Olympics in Nagano; paints portrait of Secretariat for the Secretariat Museum; paints program cover design for the Newport Jazz Festival and participates in a group exhibition at the festival; receives Medal of Honor at Ellis Island from NECO; paints portraits of Oscar De La Hoya and Bernard Hopkins for their fight program and presents the paintings to the fighters; completes a set of seven jazz lithographs at Columbia's Neiman Center for Print Studies; films a cameo appearance for Sylvester Stallone's television show "The Contender"; produces a set of five limited edition prints of Martha Graham for the Martha Graham Dance Company; publishes limited edition artist's book LeRoy Neiman Sketchbook: Liston vs. Clay 1964/Ali vs. Liston 1965 with powerHouse Books and Meridian Printing.Painter, printmaker, instructor; Boston, Mass., Cranberry Isles, Me. Born in Horby, Skane, Sweden, Jan. 5, 1898; he died Aug. 6, 1988 in Elmhurst, Ill.
Esta Nesbitt (1918-1975) was an illustrator, xerography artist, filmmaker, and educator who lived and worked in New York City. She was a fashion illustrator for about two decades before becoming a children's book illustrator, performance artist, xerography artist, and filmmaker.
Nesbitt taught at Parsons School of Design from 1964 to 1974. Around 1970, Nesbitt created the piece Walk Up --Tape On with her Parsons students. The piece involved documenting social interaction by taping themselves to each other and then others as they walked through New York City, creating what Nesbitt called a "living organism," before presenting themselves to the Whitney Museum of American Art. The event was documented with film, photography, and audio recordings.
In 1970, Nesbitt contacted Xerox Corporation about creating experimental art investigations of the Walk Up --Tape On documentation using Xerox machines in their New York City office. During Nesbitt's time at Xerox, she experimented with many different copying machines, materials, and techniques to create what came to be known as xerographic artworks. She invented three xerography techniques: transcapsa, photo-transcapsa, and chromacapsa. A transcapsa work is created by moving a piece of material over the copier's window during the printing cycle. A photo-transcapsa work is created by moving a photographic image over the copier's window during the printing cycle. Chromacapsa is a process of adding color to xerographic works using Xerox copiers. Nesbitt referred to her work at Xerox as "Xerox Xplore," which culminated with the exhibition "Xerography - Extensions in Art" (1971-1972) and the commission of the print All the Lines are Nines.
To demonstrate "the media bombardment surrounding 'everyman' today," Nesbitt created a film and sound performance piece titled "Everyman as Anyman, or Putting On, On, On, On, On" in 1969. The performance consisted of five Super 8 film projectors and a multi-layered soundtrack. Nesbitt further experimented with filmmaking and xerography with the films "Folding/Struck" and "Light Times 499," which was created with Anibal Ambert. Her interest in xerography is further illustrated in the exhibition "Electrostatic Structures: 'New Morphs'" (1972-1973). The exhibition "1000 Empty 49.3 Grams: A participatory environment" was a culmination of her interest in participatory art.
Nesbitt died November 30, 1975 in New York City. Three posthumous exhibitions include "Esta Nesbitt: Xerography Prints" (1976) at The Art Center of Waco, "Memorial Exhibition of Drawing and Illustrations by Esta Nesbitt" (1977) at Parsons School of Design, and "Electroworks" (1979-1981) at the George Eastman House.
Sculptor; painter; photographer; Oslo, Norway; Cambridge, Mass. Nejar has executed numerous works by Pablo Picasso in concrete. He introduced Picasso to this technique in 1956 and was given exclusive rights to carry out his works in that medium.
Marion Netter was a neighbor of assemblage artist, collagist, and sculptor Joseph Cornell, in Flushing, N.Y.
Louise Nevelson was born in 1899 in Kiev, Russia. Her parents, Isaac and Minna Berliawsky, and their children emigrated to America in 1905 and settled in Rockland, Maine, where the young Louise grew up as a bit of an outsider in local society. She decided upon a career in art at an early age and took some drawing classes in high school, before graduating in 1918. Two years later, she married Charles Nevelson, a wealthy businessman, and moved to New York. She proceeded to study painting, drawing, singing, acting, and eventually dancing. In 1922, Nevelson gave birth to a son, Myron (later called Mike). She eventually separated from her husband in the winter of 1932-1933; and they divorced officially in 1941.
Beginning in 1929, Nevelson began to study art full-time at the Art Students League, where she took classes with Kenneth Hayes Miller and Kimon Nicolaides. In 1931, she went to Europe and studied with Hans Hofmann in Munich before traveling to Italy and France. She returned to New York in 1932 and again studied for a time with Hofmann, who was by now a guest instructor at the Art Students League. In 1933, she met Diego Rivera while he was in New York working on his mural for Rockefeller Center and casually worked as his assistant for a short period. Shortly thereafter, she began to work in sculpture and joined a sculpture class taught by Chaim Gross at the Educational Alliance. She continued to draw and paint, and even took up etching, lithography, and other techniques at different points in her career, but from this time on, she concentrated on sculpture. Her early sculptures were primarily in plaster, clay, and tattistone.
During the thirties, Nevelson exhibited in a number of group shows (both non-juried and competitive ones), garnering some recognition for her work. In 1935, she taught mural painting at the Flatbush Boys Club in Brooklyn, as part of the Works Progress Administration (WPA), then went on to work in the fine-arts division as an easel painter and sculptor until 1939. In 1941, Nevelson had her first solo exhibition at the Nierendorf Gallery, run by Karl Nierendorf who represented her until his death in 1947. Both this and a one-woman show the following year received favorable reviews. It was around this time that she discovered the decorated shoeshine box of Joe Milone, a local tradesman, and arranged to have it exhibited at the Museum of Modern Art, an occasion which received much notice in the press.
In the 1940s, Nevelson produced a great many works in stone, bronze, terra cotta, and wood, most of them being cubist studies of the figure. In 1943, she had a show titled "The Clown as the Center of his World" at the Norlyst Gallery, which featured works on a circus theme constructed from discarded pieces of wood and other material. This new work was not very well received at the time, and it wasn't until the mid-1950s that she began to work with discarded and found objects on a regular basis.
During the early-1950s, Nevelson attempted to exhibit her work as often as possible, eventually receiving various prizes and notices for her work in the press. She continued to struggle financially though and began to teach sculpture classes in the adult education program of the Great Neck, Long Island public schools in order to make ends meet. In 1955, she joined he Grand Central Moderns Gallery, which was run by Colette Roberts, and had several one-woman shows there. These included: "Ancient Games and Ancient Places" in 1955, featuring Bride of the Black Moon, "The Forest" in 1957, featuring First Personage, and "Moon Garden + One" in 1958, featuring her first wall, Sky Cathedral. During this period, she was painting her wood black and putting together entirely black exhibits; she went on to create works in white and gold in the early-1960s. Around this time, she also began to enclose her small sculptures within wooden boxes.
Nevelson joined the Martha Jackson Gallery in 1958, where she received a guaranteed income and finally achieved a certain degree of financial security. Her first show at the gallery, "Sky Columns Presence," took place in the fall of 1959. In 1960, she had her first one-woman exhibition in Europe at the Galerie Daniel Cordier in Paris. Later that year, her work, grouped together as "Dawn's Wedding Feast," was included in the group show, "Sixteen Americans," at the Museum of Modern Art, alongside the work of Jasper Johns, Robert Rauschenburg, and other younger artists. She made her first museum sale in 1962 when the Whitney Museum of American Art purchased the black wall, Young Shadows. That same year, Nevelson's work was selected for the thirty-first Biennale in Venice.
Over the years, Nevelson took on several assistants, including Teddy Haseltine, Tom Kendall, and Diana Mackown, to help in the studio and with daily affairs. She also participated in various artists' groups, and served as President of the New York Chapter of Artists' Equity from 1957 to 1958, and as President of the national organization from 1962 to 1964. She left the Martha Jackson Gallery in 1962, and after a brief, unhappy stint with the Sidney Janis Gallery, she joined the Pace Gallery, which was run by Arnold Glimcher, in the fall of 1963. She proceeded to have shows of new work there about every two years for the remainder of her career. She had her first museum retrospective at the Whitney Museum in 1967, which featured over a hundred of her works from her drawings from the 1930s to her latest constructions. And in 1968, she was elected to the National Institute of Arts and Letters. By this time, Nevelson had achieved both critical and commercial success as an artist.
Nevelson always experimented with new materials; she continued to construct her black wood walls, but also went on make constructions from aluminium, plastic, and metal. In the fall of 1969, she was commissioned by Princeton University to do a monumental outdoor sculpture in Cor-ten steel (her first), and went on to do commissioned works for the Philadelphia Federal Courthouse, and Chase Manhattan Bank in New York, among others. In 1973, the Walker Art Center organized a major exhibition of Nevelson work which traveled around the country over the next two years. In 1975, she designed the chapel for St. Peter's Lutheran Church in midtown Manhattan.
Nevelson was widely honored for her work during her lifetime. Over the years, she received honorary degrees from Rutgers University and Harvard University, among other schools, as well as numerous awards, including the Brandeis University Creative Arts Award in Sculpture and the Skowhegan Medal for Sculpture in 1971, the gold medal for sculpture from the American Academy of Arts and Letters in 1983, and the National Medal of the Arts in 1985. By the time of her death on April 17, 1988, Nevelson was considered by and large one of the most important American sculptors of the twentieth century.
Sources consulted for this biographical note include Louise Nevelson: A Passionate Life by Laurie Lisle and Louise Nevelson by Arnold Glimcher.
Governing body of the Newark Museum. The Director of the Museum is the secretary of the Association, and the contents of the Museum are owned by the Association.
Known as the Art Museum of the New Britain Institute prior to 1961.
Painter, illustrator, writer; New Jersey and Colorado.
Arnold Newman (1918-2006) was a photographer based primarily in New York. Arnold Newman was born March 3, 1918 in New York City. He was raised and attended schools in Atlantic City, N.J. and Miami Beach, FL. He studied art under a scholarship at the University of Miami, Coral Gables, FL from 1936 to 1938. He died in New York City on June 6, 2006. Generally acknowledged as the pioneer of the environmental portrait, he is also known for his still life and abstract photography, and he is considered as one of the most influential photographers of the 20th Century.
Barnett Newman (1905-1970) was a painter and writer in New York.
Artists; Long Island City, New York. Worked on Works Progress Administration, Federal Art Project.
The Niveau Gallery was a commercial art gallery specializing in late 19th and early 20th century French painting. It was located at 962 Madison Avenue, New York City, N.Y.
Linda Nochlin (1931-2017) was a feminist art historian and professor at New York University Institute of Fine Arts in New York, New York. She is widely known for her essay first published in 1971, "Why Have There Been No Great Women Artists?," that explored the institutional systems in place for analyzing art history and their impacts on women artists. In 1976, Nochlin co-curated Women Artists: 1550-1950 alongside Ann Sutherland Harris at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, and in 2007 she co-curated with Maura Reilly the Global Feminisms Exhibition at the Brooklyn Museum. Both exhibitions are considered landmark exhibitions of women artists.
Nochlin was born in Brooklyn, New York. She attended the Brooklyn Ethical Culture School and Midwood High School before enrolling in Vassar College where she majored in philosophy with minors in Greek and art history. After graduating in 1951, she went on to earn a master's degree in English from Columbia University in 1952. In 1963, she earned her PhD in art history from the Institute of Fine Arts. Nochlin's PhD dissertation, "Gustave Courbet: A Study of Style and Society," marked the beginning of her lifelong study of the 19th-Century French artist Gustave Courbet.
Nochlin taught at Yale University, the Graduate Center at the City University of New York, and Vassar College. She was also a visiting professor at Columbia University, Hunter College, Stanford University, Williams College, and Yale University, and later became the Lila Acheson Wallace Professor Emerita of Modern Art at the Institute of Fine Arts.
Nochlin authored numerous art history books including Realism (1971), The Politics of Vision: Essays on Nineteenth-Century Art and Society (1989), Representing Women (1999), The Body in Pieces: The Fragment as a Metaphor of Modernity (1994), Bathers, Bodies, Beauty: The Visceral Eye (2006), Courbet (2007), and Misère: The Visual Representation of Misery in the 19th Century (2018).
Kenneth Noland (1924-2010) was a painter, educator in South Salem, New York, and friend of David Smith.
Painter, portrait painter; Columbus, Ga. Died 1993.
Painter, etcher, block printer, engraver, lithographer, watercolorist, teacher; Santa Fe, N.M. and Lambertville, N.J. Born in Tullstorp, Scania, Sweden, and came to the United States in 1891. Taught at the Minneapolis School of Art and the University of Texas. Moved to Lambertville, N.J. in 1937 from Santa Fe, N.M.
Ben Norris (1910-2006) was a watercolorist and educator in Hawaii and New York. Norris studied privately with Frederic Taubes and Stanton Macdonald-Wright, and was educated at Harvard University and the Sorbonne in Paris. Norris also taught art history at the Univeristy of Hawaii.
Art historian; Washington, DC North's dissertation was on painter Max Weber. Was guest curator at the University of Minnesota Art Gallery in the late 1970s.
William Edward Norton (1843-1916) was a Boston born marine painter who studied in France, and settled in London. Norton had two paintings accepted by the Paris Salon, and exhibited at the Royal Academy. He also represented the United States at the International Exposition.
Norton, who was born into a family of shipbuilders, worked as a sailor in his youth and would sketch ships, crew, and seascapes during his free time. He later attended the Lowell Institute and studied under George Innes. Sales of his paintings funded his trip to France where he studied with Antoine Vollon and painted the Normandy coast.
After living in London with his wife, Norton returned to the United States in the early 1890s and lived and worked in New York City until his death.
Richard T. Notkin (1948-) is a ceramic artist in Helena, Montana.
David Novros (1941-) is an abstract painter in New York, NY.
Abstract painter David Novros was born in Los Angeles in 1941 and lived with his family in Van Nuys, California. His father, Lester Novros, was an artist whose interest in movement eventually led him to the Walt Disney Company, where he worked on animation projects. In 1941 he established his own production company, Graphic Films, and began teaching in the Cinema Department of the University of Southern California. Both David and his brother Paul were enamored with film; David turned to painting, but Paul followed in their father's line of work and became an award-winning film producer.
David entered the University of Southern California and studied painting with James Jervaisee. He made a few student films and sometimes worked with his father, but before long he turned to painting. During the summer of 1961, Novros attended courses at Yale and met Chuck Close, Brice Marden, and Vija Celmins.
After earning a B.F.A. in 1963, Novros completed his Army Reserve obligations and travelled in Europe. He moved to New York City in 1964 and met many Minimalist artists. Over the next several years, Novros's rectangular paintings gave way to multi-panel paintings and then to shaped panels. From the late 1960s through the 1970s, Novros developed a reputation as a geometric abstractionist. He showed at Park Place Gallery and had a solo exhibition at Virginia Dwan Gallery (Los Angeles) in 1966; the next year, his work was again presented at Park Place Gallery and at the Virginia Dwan Gallery (New York). Several solo exhibitions followed at Klaus Kertess's influential Bykert Gallery, as well as at other venues.
Novros participated in important exhibitions of abstraction, among them "Systemic Painting" (Guggenheim Museum, 1966), "Color and Structure" (Whitney Museum of American Art, 1971), and "Abstract-Geometry-Painting: Selected Geometric Abstract Painting in America since 1945" (Albright-Knox Gallery, 1989). In 1970, he was awarded a Guggenheim Foundation Fellowship.
In the 1970s, Novros turned to fresco painting, and his eventual decision to focus on murals effectively removed him from the commercial gallery scene. One of his earliest commissions was a fresco painted in 1970 for the second floor of Donald Judd's studio/home. Other commissions include: Solar Triptych, a radial triptych that opens and closes throughout the day, for the lobby of Union Station, Newark, NJ (1984); a fresco in the Old Court House, Miami (1984); a painted-glass and copper fresco in the Gross Building, Winslow, Arizona (1994-1996); and the Liaunig Boat House with fresco paintings, Middleburgh, NY (1996-2003). A number of museums in the United States and Europe include Novros's work in their permanent collections, among them: Menil Collection, Museum of Modern Art, Whitney Museum of American Art, Museum Liaunig (Austria), and Daimler contemporary (Berlin).
Mr. Novros lives and works in New York City.
Painter and sculptor; New York, N.Y.
Art society; New York City. Founded 1890.
Ruth Printz O'Hara (1933-2019) was an art dealer and collector in New York City, New York. She was the founder of Ruth O'Hara Fine Art and co-founder of O'Hara Gallery.
OK Harris Works of Art specialized in a wide range of contemporary art and was known for its early support of Photo-realism. When it opened in 1969, the gallery was one of the first to operate in the SoHo area of Manhattan and its presence helped shape the neighborhood's development into a vibrant arts district.
Ivan C. Karp (1926-2012), the founder of OK Harris Works of Art, established a reputation in the art world while co-director of Leo Castelli Gallery from 1959-1969. He is credited with launching the careers of Pop artists such as Andy Warhol, Roy Lichtenstein, Robert Rauschenberg, John Chamberlain, Tom Wesselmann, and Claes Oldenburg. Karp wrote, published, and lectured extensively on art and the art business. He was the author of a romantic novel about New York life, Doobie Doo (published in 1965, front cover by Roy Lichtenstein, back cover by Andy Warhol) and his short stories were published in literary reviews. Karp was actively involved in architectural preservation efforts in New York City. As President of the Anonymous Arts Recovery Society, he rescued and stored cornices, capitals, portals, columns and other architectural fragments of historical and aesthetic interest from demolition sites. Many are displayed in his Anonymous Arts Museum, Charlotteville, NY and some became part of a sculpture garden that Karp donated to the Brooklyn Museum of Art.
While Leo Castelli Gallery was closed for summer vacations in 1963 and 1964, Karp ran his own contemporary art gallery in Provincetown. He named it OK Harris, a name he thought suggestive of a colorful, very American character. A few years later, Karp opened OK Harris Works of Art in SoHo where a portrait of a bearded man titled "Oscar Klondike Harris" hung in his office. "Mr. Harris" frequently assumed blame for delays, rejections and other unwelcome news or decisions. OK Harris Works of Art (first at 469 West Broadway and later at 383 West Broadway) was a 10,000 square foot ground-floor space where as many as six concurrent solo exhibitions were presented every six weeks. The goal was "to exhibit the broadest spectrum of the most adventuresome art being offered" and the focus was on emerging artists, many of them unknown. In addition to being at the forefront of the Photo-realist movement in 1969, OK Harris Works of Art was the first gallery to exhibit the work of Duane Hanson, Deborah Butterfield, Manny Farber, Richard Pettibone, Robert Cottingham, Robert Bechtle, Marilyn Levine, Nancy Rubins, Malcolm Morley, Luis Jiminez, Jake Berthot, Jack Goldstein, Porfirio DiDonna, and Al Souza.
An approachable, friendly man who enjoyed sharing his knowledge, Karp usually sat at the gallery's front desk and was available to all. Unlike many dealers, he was willing to look at and discuss artists' slides, offered encouragement, and often followed up with studio visits.
At his request, Marilynn Gelfman Karp became gallery director after her husband's death in 2012. She ran the business with gallery staff including Ivan's oldest son, Ethan. Following Ivan's guidelines, OK Harris Works of Art closed with a gala celebration 2014 for all the gallery's artists, collectors and friends.
Miné Okubo (1912-2001) was a Japanese American painter, illustrator, and author. She is known for her book Citizen 13600in which she described her experience at the Topaz War Relocation Camp in Utah through prose and drawings.
Born in Riverside, California in 1912, Okubo began her arts education at Riverside Junior College and transferred to the University of California, Berkeley where she completed her BA and MA in Fine Arts (where she first met Roy Leeper). In 1938, she received an award to travel and study under Fernand Léger in Paris. When World War II began in Europe, she moved back to California and worked under the Federal Arts Project. She produced some solo murals and also assisted Diego Rivera on his Treasure Island mural Pan American Unity, (1940).
In April of 1942, Miné Okubo and one of her brothers were sent to the Tanforan Assembly Center under Executive Order 9066, which forcibly interned over 100,000 Japanese and Japanese-American citizens living on the West Coast of the United States. Six months later, they were sent to the Topaz War Relocation Camp in Topaz, Utah. There, Okubo taught art in the camp's school and often sketched camp life. She was art editor for the camp newsletter Trek, a supplement to the Topaz Times.
In 1944, Fortune magazine published a sympathetic special edition on the Japanese and Japanese American internment during World War II. The magazine hired Okubo to illustrate two of the articles. She was permitted to leave the camp and move to New York City, where she remained for the rest of her life, working as a painter and illustrator. She wrote and illustrated a book about her experiences in the Topaz confinement camp, Citizen 13600, which won the American Book Award in 1984. Miné Okubo died in 2001.
Medical doctor Roy Leeper befriended Miné Okubo while they were both students at the University of California. Later, he and his partner dentist Gaylord Hall were reintroduced to Okubo and her artwork by a mutual friend. They began a life-long relationship with Okuba, both as friends and collectors.
Painter and sculptor Jules Olitski (1922-2007) lived and worked from New York City; Meredith, New Hampshire; and Islamorada, Florida and was known for his color field abstractions and painted metal sculptures. Born Jevel Demikovsky in Snovsk, Russia (now Shchors, Ukraine), Olitski's father was politically executed months after his birth, and his mother and grandmother moved with him to the United States in 1923. Showing an early propensity for art, Olitski trained at both New York's National Academy of Design and the Beaux-Arts Institute of Design and furthered his art studies in Paris. After returning to New York, Olitski received a master's in art education from NYU in 1954 and subsequently taught at C.W. Post College (1956-1963) and Bennington College (1963-1967).
His first solo show of abstract impastos at the Alexander Iolas Gallery in 1958 caught the attention of art critic Clement Greenberg, who continued to champion him throughout his career. In the 1960s, Olitski came to prominence with color field paintings that used stain and spray methods to emphasize the broad, flat plane of the canvas. By the 1970s, he began producing and painting large scale abstract aluminum sculptures and returned to painting in the more textured style he had used in the 1950s.
Olitski, along with Roy Lichtenstein, Helen Frankenthaler, and Ellsworth Kelly, was selected to represent the United States at the 1966 Venice Biennale and was also the first living artist invited to exhibit a one-person show at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1969. A prolific artist, he exhibited in over 150 solo shows and was elected to the National Academy of Design in 1994. Olinski continued painting and exhibiting new abstractions of monochrome landscapes late into his career and died of cancer in New York.
Jules Olitski (1922-2007) was a painter, sculptor, and educator in New York, New York, who established himself as one of the leaders of the abstract expressionist movement in the United States during the 1950s-1960s.
Olitski was born in the Ukraine, and moved to New York in 1923 after his father, a commissar, was executed. By 1935, Olitski had developed an interest in art and was awarded a scholarship at the Pratt Institute where he began taking classes in 1939. Soon after he attended the National Academy of Design until 1942 when he enlisted in the United States Army.
In 1949 Olitski studied sculpture with Ossip Zadkine in the Zadkine School of Sculpture in France, and the next year attended the Academia de la Grande Chaumiere in Paris. He then moved back to the United States for his higher education, earning a master's degree from New York University. Olitski became an associate professor of art at the State University of New York, New Paltz in 1954. He held several more teaching positions throughout the 1950s and 1960s in New York and Vermont.
From the 1970s-2000s Olitski received honorary degrees from Keen State College, Hartford Art School, and Southern New Hampshire University, and held solo shows at the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C., Knoedler Contemporary Art in New York, La Musee de Valence in France, and the Drabinsky Friedland Gallery in Toronto. He also participated in several major group exhibitions around the world including American Drawings, 1964 (1964) at the Solomon Guggenheim Museum, New York Painting and Sculpture: 1940-1970 (1970) at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and The Green Mountain Boys - Caro, Feeley, Noland and Olitski at Bennington in the 1960's (1998), and exhibited elsewhere in Vermont and New York, and many other locations.
Nathan Oliveira (1928-2010) was a painter, printmaker, and sculptor based in Stanford, California.
Tomás Oliva (1930-1996) was a Cuban born sculptor, painter, and printmaker who worked in Havana up to the mid or late 1970s before relocating to Miami, Florida.
Born in 1930 in Havana, Cuba, Oliva graduated from the San Alejandro Academy in Havana in 1952 with a dual degree in painting and sculpture. He also attended the Royal School of Ceramic La Moncloa in Spain and Ecole du Mosaic de Ravene et Ceramique de Faienze in Paris France. He also studied art and film animation with Ivan Zeiler and stage design with Ladislav Vihodil while living in Havana.
Oliva was one of the founding members of the Cuban artists' group Los Once (The Eleven), active in Havana between 1953 and 1955. Los Once consisted of 11 painters and sculptors-Pancho Antigua, René Avila, José Ignacio Bermudez, Agustin Cárdenas, Hugo Consuegra, Viredo Espinosa, Guido Llinás, Fayad Jamís, Tomás Oliva, José Antonio Díaz Peláez, and Antonio Vidal.
In the mid to late 1970s, Oliva relocated to Miami, Florida and regularly exhibited there and across the United States, Canada, Brazil, Mexico, Spain, Europe, and Japan.
Anna Wetherill Olmsted (1888-1981) was a museum director of the Syracuse Museum of Fine Arts in Syracuse, N.Y..
Sculptor, San Francisco, Calif. Worked on the Federal Art Project in San Francisco.
Art patron; Cleveland, Ohio. Olney was one of the first benefactors of Oberlin College's Allen Memorial Art Museum.
Painter; Inverness, Calif.; b. Dec. 26, 1912, Wendover, England; d. Nov. 9, 2003
The Organization of Independent Artists (OIA) is a non-profit arts organization founded in 1976 by Warren Tanner, Arnold Wechsler, and Renee Meyer. The organization's mission is to sponsor artist-curated group shows and enable exhibitions of emerging and mid-career artists in public spaces throughout the New York City area outside of the usual commercial and alternative gallery venues.
OIA activities have included organizing public space exhibitions and displays of artwork, publishing a quarterly newsletter, maintaining a slide registry of artists' work and extensive artists' mailing lists, and arranging studio tours. The Arts in Public Spaces Program was initiated in 1976 with the passage of the Public Buildings Cooperative Usage Act, a public law that encourages the use of public space in federal buildings for cultural and educational activities. Participating professional artists have included Thornton Willis, Joan Thorne, Vincent Longo, Mimi Gross Grooms, Hannah Wilke, Nancy Spero, Richard Mock, and Joyce Kozloff, among others. By 1986, OIA had facilitated the display of more than 5,000 works of art in forty public exhibition sites, which included courthouses, libraries, building lobbies, public parks, college campuses, and hospital grounds in all five boroughs of New York City, and over 2,000 artists had participated it its Art in Public Spaces program.
Other exhibition collaborations have included Cork Gallery at Lincoln Center, General Services Administration, John F. Kennedy Airport, Long Island University in Brooklyn, Longwood Arts Center in the Bronx, New York City Department of Cultural Affairs, Port Authority Bus Terminal, Queens Museum in Flushing Meadow Park, Snug Harbor Cultural Center on Staten Island, U.S. Federal Courthouse in Brooklyn, and the grounds of the South Beach Psychiatric Center on Staten Island. Since 1979, the annual OIA Sculpture Garden at the Manhattan Psychiatric Center on Ward's Island has afforded hundreds of artists the opportunity to construct and install large-scale outdoor work in an urban environment, and many artists have received individual commissions, one-person shows, and have sold art work as a direct result of their participation.
Other OIA exhibition programming has resulted in ten to twelve artist-curated shows per year, and has assisted the artist-curator by identifying and negotiating exhibition locations, as well as producing announcement cards and posters, providing insurance, hosting the artists' reception, advising and assisting with publicity, and undergoing extensive fundraising for artists' and curators' fees.
Origins Gallery was a commercial art gallery in Boston, Massachusetts, directed and owned by Edyth Shulman. Origins Gallery specialized in Indigenous and tribal art, especially Inuit art, much of it contemporary carving and printmaking fostered by the government beginning in the 1950s. It was located on Newbury St., ca. 1970-1972, and in Cambridge, ca. 1972-1978.
Painter; Chatham, Massachusetts. Born Flushing, New York. In 1927, Orr was a student of Charles Hawthorne in Provincetown, Massachusetts, and from 1927 to 1929, he studied at the Grand Central School of Art in New York under George Pierce Ennis, Henry B. Snell, and Wayman Adams. From 1929 to 1930 he studied under George Luks.
Geologist; Columbus, Ohio. Orton was a long-time chairman of the Department of Geology, Ohio State University.
Painter; New York City; b. 1889, Belleville, Ill.; d. 1968 Osborne's husband, Cordray Simmons, is also a painter; discovered with her husband "vinyl lite," a new kind of acrylic paint
Filipino American painter and assemblage artist Alfonso Ossorio (1916-1990) was based primarily in the New York area and was a key figure in the Abstract Expressionist and Art Brut movements.
Born in Manila, Philippines, in 1916, Ossorio immigrated to the United States with his family in 1930, settling in the Portsmouth area of Rhode Island and studying fine art at Harvard University and the Rhode Island School of Design. In 1950 Ossorio was commissioned by the parish of St. Joseph in Victorias City, Negros Occidental in the Philippines, to paint a mural which would be known as "The Angry Christ." In the late 1940s Ossorio settled in New York and later purchased the Creeks, an estate in East Hampton where he thereafter spent the majority of his time. From the late 1940s on Ossorio explored abstraction and formed crucial friendships with Jackson Pollock and Jean Dubuffet. In the 1960s he began to create assemblages that he called congregations, and his work was included in numerous exhibitions throughout the United States and elsewhere.
Etcher and painter; Forest Hills, N.Y.
Museum administrator; Washington, D.C. McCay was a cartoonist from New York City, born c. 1869, died 1934.
New York artist, critic, writer, art consultant, and curator, Walter Pach (1883-1958) was an influential promoter of modern art and was instrumental in organizing the landmark Armory Show in 1913.
Walter Pach was born in New York City, July 11, 1883. His father, Gotthelf Pach, was a prominent commercial photographer who, along with his family, ran the New York firm of Pach Brothers. The company did the bulk of the photographic work for the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and the young Pach often accompanied his father on museum assignments. In 1903, Pach graduated from the City College of New York with a degree in art. He also studied with Robert Henri at the New York School of Art and went abroad to paint with William Merritt Chase in the summers of 1903 and 1904.
In 1906 Pach presented his first art history lecture at the Westfield State Normal School in Westfield, Massachusetts.
In 1907, Pach went to France and as an artist and critic moved among the Parisian avant-garde and became part of the Gertrude and Leo Stein circle. Gertrude Stein's "Portrait of Walter Pach was painted in 1908. Pach wrote extensively about modern art and through his numerous books, articles, and translations of European art texts, brought an emerging modernist viewpoint to the American public. In 1908 he wrote the first article published in America on Cézanne, and also wrote on such established artists as Claude Monet, whom he interviewed in 1908 for Scribner's Magazine.
Pach organized exhibitions of contemporary art for important New York City galleries of the period, as well as the landmark exhibition of 1913, "The International Exhibition of Modern Art," commonly known as the Armory Show. Along with painters Arthur B. Davies and Walt Kuhn, he brought together leading contemporary European and American artists. Pach served with Kuhn as administrator, publicist and gallery lecturer for the Armory Show Chicago for the run of the exhibition.
Pach helped to form major collections for John Quinn and Walter Arensberg. He was also instrumental in securing individual works of art for museums, such as a portrait for the Louvre Museum by American master Thomas Eakins, and Jacques-Louis David's Death of Socrates for the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
Pach married artist Magdalene Frohberg in February 1914, and their son Raymond was born at the end of that year. The Pachs lived primarily in New York, but spent time abroad from 1928 to 1932. Intermittently, they lived on the West Coast, where Pach taught at the University of California at Berkeley. In the 1920s he taught at the University of Mexico on a Shilling Fund grant, lecturing and writing on Native American art and developing a strong interest in Pre-Columbian art. He took an active interest in organizing exhibitions and raising money for a museum to be dedicated to the indigenous art of the Americas. In addition, he was a friend of José Clemente Orozco and Diego Rivera and helped organize the Mexican chapter of the Society of Independent Artists, the New York-based organization he founded in 1917 with Walter Arensberg and Marcel Duchamp.
While not well known today as a painter, Walter Pach devoted much of his creative effort to painting. He considered himself both an artist and a writer, even though friends like art historian Bernard Berenson urged him to devote all his time to writing. Among his writings are monographs on a wide range of subjects, social commentary on the art world, and a book on museum structures. Among his first publications were a series of brochures produced for the 1913 Armory Show, including Odilon Redon and, in the same year, A Sculptor's Architecture, a book about the work of Raymond Duchamp-Villon, a close friend whom he admired greatly. In 1923, Pach wrote Georges Seurat, a book later cited by art historian John Rewald as an important early text on the artist. Masters of Modern Art and the monograph Raymond Duchamp-Villon were published the following year, and in 1928 Pach's well-known indictment of opportunistic artists and corruption in the art world, Ananias, or The False Artist, created a stir in art circles. Pach considered Vincent Van Gogh to be a seminal figure in the development of modern art and was the first historian to lecture on him in America. In 1936, he published his well-received monograph, Vincent Van Gogh. His recollections of a life spent in art, Queer Thing, Painting appeared in 1938. Ingres was published in 1939, as well as Masterpieces of Art, written for the 1939 New York World's Fair, for which Pach was exhibition director. His Art Museum in America, published in 1948, called into question the relevance, responsibility, and future direction of the American art museum. He long championed the artists of Mexico and published an essay on Diego Rivera in 1951 for the National Museum of Fine Arts, Mexico, for its 50-year retrospective exhibition on the artist. The Classical Tradition in Modern Art, Pach's last book, was published posthumously in 1959.
Pach's fluency in French, German, and Spanish allowed him to understand and interpret new avant-garde ideas developing in Europe and to translate them for an English-speaking audience. His language skills also allowed him to communicate personally with many noted artists in Europe and Mexico and to mediate between gallery dealers and museum curators on their behalf. His correspondence with major figures in 20th-century art are a fascinating and important source of information, not only about the artists themselves but about the art world in general during the first half of this century.
1908 "Cézanne," by Walter Pach, the first American article on the subject, published in December issue of Scribner's.
1911 "Albert P. Ryder," by Walter Pach, published in January issue of Scribner's.
1912 Met with Arthur B. Davies and Walt Kuhn to begin preparations for the Armory Show. Was responsible for the exhibition's European operations. Completed Portrait of Gigi Cavigli (exhibited at the Armory Show the following year). "Pierre-Auguste Renoir," by Walter Pach, published in May issue of Scribner's.
1913 Exhibited 5 paintings and 5 etchings in "The International Exhibition of Modern Art" (Armory Show), which opened in New York City on February 13. Served as administrator, publicist, and gallery lecturer for the Armory Show Chicago with Kuhn for the run of the exhibition. At the close of the show, Matisse, Brancusi, and Pach were hanged in effigy by the students of the School of the Art Institute of Chicago.
1915 Publication of The John Quinn Collection, catalog of a collection Pach was instrumental in assembling.
1916 Founded Society of Independent Artists in collaboration with Marcel Duchamp, Walter Arensberg, and others. Adviser to collector Walter Arensberg.
1917 Designed sets for Wallace Stevens's play, Bowl, Cat and Broomstick, produced at the Neighborhood Playhouse, New York City. Arranged a Gino Severini exhibition at Stieglitz's 219 gallery, New York City.
1918 "Universality in Art," by Walter Pach, published in February issue of Modern School. "Jean Le Roy," by Walter Pach, published in October issue of Modern School
1919 "The Schamberg Exhibition," by Walter Pach, published in May 17 issue of the Dial. Wrote introduction for Odilon Redon, the catalog for a graphics show at Albert Roulliers Gallery, Chicago.
1920 "The Art of the American Indian," by Walter Pach, published in January 20 issue of the Dial. His paintings abandoned the cubist-futurist mode and returned to a more naturalistic style.
1921 Publication of History of Art: Ancient Art, volume 1, by Elie Faure, translated by Walter Pach.
1922 Lecturer, University of Mexico, where he developed a strong interest in Pre-Columbian art. Lectured at Société Anonyme. Publication of History of Art: Mediaeval Art, volume 2, by Elie Faure, translated by Walter Pach. Contributed a chapter, "Art," to Civilization in the United States: An Inquiry by Thirty Americans, edited by Harold E. Stearns.
1923 Publication of Georges Seurat by Walter Pach. Publication of The Art of Cineplastics and History of Art: Renaissance Art, volume 3, by Elie Faure, translated by Walter Pach. "Georges Seurat," by Walter Pach, published in March issue of the Arts.
1924 Publication of Masters of Modern Art, by Walter Pach. Publication of Raymond Duchamp-Villon, by Walter Pach. Publication of History of Art: Modern Art, volume 4, by Elie Faure, translated by Walter Pach. "The Greatest American Artist," by Walter Pach, published in January issue of Harper's Magazine.
1926 "Graveur Américain," by Léon Rosenthal, an article about Pach's graphics (illustrated with an original etching, New York), published in September issue of Byblis, Miroir des Arts du Livre et de L'Estampe. "Brancusi," by Walter Pach, published in December 1 issue of the Nation. Instructor, New York University. First solo exhibition at Brummer Gallery, New York, New York.
1927 "What Passes for Art," by Walter Pach, published in June issue of Harper's Magazine
1928 Publication of Ananias, or The False Artist, by Walter Pach. Pach family relocated to Europe.
1929 "The Evolution of Diego Rivera," by Walter Pach, published in January issue of Creative Art. "John Ruskin and Walter Pach: Defenders of the Faith," by W.H. Downes, published in August issue of American Museum Art.
1930 Publication of An Hour of Art, by Walter Pach. Publication of History of Art: The Spirit of the Forms, volume 5, by Elie Faure, translated by Walter Pach. "Notes sur le classicisme de Delacroix," by Walter Pach, published in June issue of L'Amour de L'Art.
1931 Solo exhibition at Kraushaar Gallery, New York City, with review published in March 21 issue of Art News. "Raymond Duchamp-Villon," by Walter Pach, published in May issue of Formes XV.
1932 "Le Classicisme de Barye," by Walter Pach, published in November issue of L'Amour de L’Art. Returned to the United States.
1933 "Address at the Worcester Opening of International, 1933," by Walter Pach, and "Georges Rouault," by Walter Pach, both published in January issue of Parnassus. "American Art in the Louvre," by Walter Pach, published in May issue of Fine Arts 20. "On Owning Pictures," by Walter Pach, published in August issue of Fine Arts 20. "Rockefeller, Rivera and Art," by Walter Pach, published in September issue of Harper's Magazine.
1934 Organized Maurice Prendergast retrospective for Whitney Museum of American Art.
1935 Exhibition at Knoedler Gallery, New York City included Walter Pach's Respice, Adspice, and Prospice, a fresco commissioned for the City College of New York by the Class of 1903.
1936 Exhibition of watercolors at Kleemann Galleries, New York City. Publication of Vincent Van Gogh, by Walter Pach." The Raphael from Russia," by Walter Pach, published in January issue of Virginia Quarterly Review. "First Portfolio of American Art," by Walter Pach, published in October 3 issue of Art News. Wrote foreword to First Exhibition in America of Géricault, catalog of exhibition at Marie Sterner Gallery, New York City. "The Outlook for Modern Art," by Walter Pach, published in April issue of Parnassus. Article about Pach's City College mural published in February issue of City College Alumnus Magazine.
1937 Publication of The Journal of Eugène Delacroix, translated by Walter Pach. Publication of Thomas Eakins, by Walter Pach, catalog of exhibition at Kleemann Gallery, New York City.
1938 Publication of Queer Thing, Painting: Forty Years in the World of Art, by Walter Pach. "Delacroix Today," by Walter Pach, published in January issue of Magazine of Art.
1939 Publication of Ingres, by Walter Pach. Appointed general director, "Masterpieces of Art" exhibition, New York World's Fair.
1940 Publication of Masterpieces of Art, New York World's Fair, 1940, Official Illustrated Catalogue, by Walter Pach.
1941 Solo exhibition at Schneider-Gabriel Gallery, New York City.
1942 "Newly Discovered Ingres: The Lovers," by Walter Pach, published in October issue of Art in America Exhibition at Whitney Museum of American Art, "Between the Wars: Prints by American Artists, 1914-1941," included Walter Pach's etching Saint-Germain-des-Pres (1911). Lecturer, University of Mexico, Shilling Fund grant.
1943 "A Newly Found American Painter: Hermenegildo Bustos," by Walter Pach, published in January issue of Art in America. "Unknown Aspects of Mexican Painting," by Walter Pach, published in October issue of Gazette des Beaux-Arts. Marriage of son, Raymond.
1944 "The Eight, Then and Now," by Walter Pach, published in January issue of Art News. "Problemas del arte americano," by Walter Pach, published in December issue of Origenes.
1946 "La Barricade in America," by Walter Pach, published in July issue of Art News. "On Art Criticism," by Eugène Delacroix (first published in Revue de Paris, May 1829), translated by Walter Pach for catalog of exhibition at Curt Valentin, New York City.
1947 Publication of Picasso, by Juan Larrea, edited by Walter Pach. Publication of "Museums Can Be Living Things," by Walter Pach, in Laurels Number One, Laurel Gallery. Etching, Scopasian Head, by Walter Pach, included in Laurels Number Two, Laurel Gallery.
1948 Publication of The Art Museum in America, by Walter Pach. "The Past Lives On," by Walter Pach, parts 1 and 2, published in October and November issues of American Artist.
1949 "Thus Is Cubism Cultivated," by Walter Pach, published in May issue of Art News.
1950 Contributed a chapter, "The State of the Arts in the Democratic Way of Life: A Postscript," to Perspectives on a Troubled Decade: Science, Philosophy and Religion, 1939-1949, edited by Lyman Bryson, Louis Finkelstein, and R. M. MacIver. Death of wife, Magdalene.
1951 "Reaciones entre la cultura nordeamericana y la ombre de Diego Rivera," a major essay by Walter Pach published in Diego Rivera, 50 años de su labor artistica, exposition de normenaje nacional, Museo nacional de artes plasticas, Mexico City. Married Nikifora.
1953 "A Modernist Visits Greece," by Walter Pach, reprinted in autumn issue of Archaeology.
1954 "John Sloan," by Walter Pach, published in August issue of Atlantic Monthly.
1956 "Introducing the Paintings of George Of (1876-1954)," by Walter Pach, published in October issue of Art News.
1958 Professor, City College of New York. Died, New York City, following an operation for stomach ulcers.
1959 Publication of The Classical Tradition in Modern Art, by Walter Pach.
1986 Exhibition, "Walter Pach, A Retrospective," at Asheville Art Museum, Asheville, North Carolina.
1988 Exhibition, "The Art of Walter and Magda Pach," at Butler Institute of American Art, Youngstown, Ohio.
1990 Exhibition, "Discovering Modernism: Selections from the Walter Pach Papers," at the Archives of American Art, New York City.
1991 Exhibition, "The Paintings of Walter Pach," at Forum Gallery, New York City.Josephine Paddock (1885-1964) was a painter and collector in New York City, New York, known for figure, portrait, and animal paintings. She was a member of the National Association of Women Painters and Sculptors and exhibited at the Exhibition of Independent Artists (1910).
Married to painter, William Page with whom she lived in Italy. She eventually left him and moved back to the United States where she married lawyer Peter B. Sweeny of Tammany Hall fame. They lived in Washington, D.C. and New York.
Art organization, Los Angeles, Calif.
Sculptor; Albany, N.Y. Was self-taught. Was an expert joiner, patternmaker, and cameo cutter as well.
Panhorst is Director of the Marshall M. Fredericks Sculpture Gallery and Director of the Michigan SOS! (Save Outdoor Scultpure). Rhines worked for as a buildings and grounds superintendent for the Gratiot County County Courthouse, Ithaca, Mich. and later carved sculptures of people for the property around his home.
Erwin Panofsky (1892-1968), a native of Hannover, Germany, grew up in Berlin where he received a classical education at the Joachimsthalsches Gymnasium. He then studied at the universities of Berlin, Munich and Freiburg/Breslau. After earning a Ph. D. in 1914 from the University of Freiburg, Panofsky spent three years on post-doctoral study in Berlin, and during this period, married fellow student and art historian Dorothea (Dora) Mosse.
Although primarily a scholar of Gothic and Renaissance art, Panofsky had wide interests. Erwin Panofsky was a highly respected and influential scholar who was a much loved, generous, and encouraging teacher of several generations of productive scholars. Many students became his life long friends, and quite a few of them considered Panofsky the greatest teacher they had ever encountered.
He taught at the University of Hamburg from 1920 to1933, and during this period began to develop iconographic approaches to interpreting art through analysis of its subject matter's symbols, themes, and history. His work in this area eventually had international influence in the development of art history as a discipline.
Beginning in 1931, Panofsky taught at New York University, spending alternate semesters at the University of Hamburg until the Nazis dismissed all Jewish officials. He and his family fled Germany and came to the United States in 1933. During the academic year 1934/35, Panofsky held concurrent appointments at both New York University and Princeton University. He joined the faculty of the newly formed Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, New Jersey, in 1935, where he remained until his retirement in 1962. In addition, he continued to teach graduate seminars at New York University and Princeton Universtiy.
He was a prolific writer, and his many books and articles represent some of the 20th century's most important writings in the field of art history, particularly in the realm of iconography. Among his books are: "Idea": Ein Beitrag zur Begriffsgeschichte der älteren Kunstheorie (1924) [translated later as Idea, The History of a Concept], Studies in Iconology (1939), Codex Huygens and Leonardo da Vinci's Art Theory (1940), The Life and Art of Albrecht Dürer (1943), Abbot Suger on the Abbey Church of St. Denis and Its Art Treasures (1946), Gothic Architecture and Scholasticism (1951), Early Netherlandish Painting: Its Origins and Character (1953), Meaning and the Visual Arts (1950), Renaissance and Renascences in Western Art (1960), The Iconography of Correggio's Camera di San Paolo (1961), and Problems in Titian, Mostly Iconographic (1964).
Panofsky wrote on subjects other than art history. He was an authority on Mozart, and also wrote about the history of cinema. His 1934 article "On Movies" (originally published in Princeton University's Bulletin of the Department of Art and Archaeology), remains a highly regarded work on the subject.
The recipient of numerous honorary degrees, Panofsky most prized the first from the University of Utrecht, 1936, as it brought great satisfaction at a time when he was still coping with the trauma of expatriation. He was a member of the American Philosophical Society, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the British Academy, and several other foreign academies. In 1962, Panofsky received the Haskins Medal awarded by The Medieval Academy of America for a distinguished book in medieval history.
His wife Dora Mosse Panofsky died in 1965; in 1966, he married Gerda Soergel, also an art historian. Erwin Panofsky died in Princeton, New Jersey, March 14, 1968.
Frank Paraday (1952- ) is a fabricator in St. Louis Park, Minnesota. Paraday produced wooden foundry patterns and then had them cast at a local foundry, then shipped the cast iron parts to Nauman for final assembly.
George and Elizabeth Parton, Hudson, N.Y., parents of artists Arthur, Ernest, and Henry; associated with the Hudson River School of painting.
Parisian-born sculptor, author, and poet, William Ordway Partridge (1861-1930) was known for his sculptures of famous writers, artists, political figures, and poets.
Partridge attended Adelphi Academy and Columbia College in New York and then traveled abroad to study in Florence, Rome, and Paris. He exhibited at the Paris Salon in his early twenties before returning to New York to focus on sculpture, lecturing, poetry reading, and writing and publishing his own poetry and articles on art. In addition to busts of writers and artists and many distinguished New York figures, he executed a large bronze of Alexander Hamilton in Prospect Park, Brooklyn.
Abstract painter, educator; New York, N.Y.
Painter, illustrator, cartoonist, etcher, draftsman, teacher, and art school director; Proctor, Vt.
Adam Peiperl, b. 1935, is a kinetic light sculptor, photographer, and videographer who creates sculptures by using polarized light. He also uses digital technology to create his art.
Peirce was a painter, Pomona, N.Y. and Searsport, Maine.
Painter, watercolorist; Searsport, Maine.
Art club, New York, N.Y. Founded by Walt Kuhn in 1917. Located on East 15th street.
Writer; b. 1855; d. 1936. Elizabeth Robins Pennell was a writer and critic in New York, N.Y. and the wife of etcher and illustrator Joseph Pennell.
Elizabeth Robins Pennell (1855-1936) was a writer from Philadelphia, Pa. who worked in London, England and New York. Pennell was married to Joseph Pennell.
Painter, educator; Clinton, N.Y. Died in 1982.
Painter, educator, and author Robert Perine (1922-2004), was a student and later a professor at the Chouinard Art Institute. The Chouinard Art Institute was founded in Los Angeles, California, by Ms. Nelbert M. Chouinard in 1921. The Institute received financial support from Walt Disney who also oversaw its merger with the Los Angeles Conservatory of Music to form the Californian Institute of the Arts in 1961. The Chouinard Art Institute continued to operate as its own entity within the California Institute of the Arts until it was completely absorbed by the California Institute of the Arts in 1972.
Impressionist painter and author; Boston, Mass., Giverny, France, and Hancock, N.H.; b. 1848; d. 1933. Thomas Sergeant Perry, author, educator; Boston, Mass., Giverny, France, and Hancock, N.H. Lilla Cabot Perry studied painting at Cowles Art School in Boston with Dennis Miller Bunker and Robert Vonnoh, and in Paris at the Julian and Colarossi academies, and at Alfred Stevens' studio. She had a house in Giverny, France and introduced numerous American artists, who came to Giverny to paint, to her neighbor, Claude Monet. She wrote several books of poetry including FROM THE GARDEN OF HELLAS, THE HEART OF THE WEED and THE JAR OF DREAMS. In 1874, she married Thomas Sergeant Perry, a tutor in French and German at Harvard University and later an instructor in English. He was also the author of several books. The Perrys had three daughters, Margaret, Alice, and Edith. Alice married Joseph Clark Grew, a diplomat who was United States ambassador to Turkey and Japan, and undersecretary of state.
Printmaker and instructor of graphic arts; Long Island, N.Y.
Painter; Elmhurst, L.I., N.Y. Was the grandson of Commodore O.H. Perry of the Battle of Lake Erie, 1813. Spent most of his painting career in Elmhurst, Long Island.
Armistead Peter, Jr. (1870-1960) was father-in-law to Caroline Ogden-Jones Peter(1894-1965), who was the daughter of Suzanne Bartlett and stepdaughter of sculptor Paul Wayland Bartlett (1865-1925).
New York curator Isabel Peterson, began her full-time career during World War II. As art exhibition director for the United Seamen's Service, Inc., her primary responsibility was the annual Art Exhibition by Merchant Seamen of the United Nations.
After founding the Music Box Canteen for United States Service men and women in 1941, Peterson was asked by Vice Admiral Emory S. Land of the War Shipping Administration, to establish a recreation department for wartime merchant seamen. Peterson developed, organized, and directed the annual exhibition of paintings by merchant seamen of the United Nations from 1943 to 1946. The exhibitions were shown in the Corcoran Gallery in Washington, D.C. and in other museums throughout the United States.
William Preston Phelps (1843-1923) was known as "the painter of Monadnock," for his paintings of his native New Hampshire and the state's most prominent peak.
Phelps grew up working on his family's farm in Chesham, New Hampshire, and by his early twenties owned his own sign business in the neighborhood. Meanwhile, his first exhibition of paintings in Lowell, Massachusetts, attracted the attention of some local businessmen who funded an education for Phelps in Europe. During the late-1870s to the mid-1880s, Phelps studied in Munich and Paris with William Merritt Chase and others. Upon returning to the United States via England and Scotland, Phelps set up a studio in Lowell and then traveled west in 1886 where he painted a notable series of western landscapes, with subjects including the Grand Canyon. Following his father's death, Phelps took over and settled on the family farm, and painted the New Hampshire landscapes for which he is best known.
Following his son's death in an accident in 1901, and his wife's death six months later, Phelps's financial situation began to unravel and his health entered a steady decline. In 1914 he turned over his estate to an auctioneering firm, J. E. Conant & Co., from which he had borrowed money for a number of years. Phelps's daughter, Ina Phelps Hayward, herself an artist, attempted to ensure that her father's property was handled fairly in the estate sale, but much of his property and paintings, including some of his best known pictures, were sold for very little or disappeared with no record of provenance. Phelps, who was in the Concord State Hospital at the time, died five years later and his daughter's attempts to pursue J. E. Conant & Co. through the courts, were unsuccessful.
Phelps's paintings can be found in the collections of the William Benton Museum of Art, the New Hampshire Historical Society, the Shelburne Museum, and others.
Painter, art instructor; Chicago, Ill. Born in Utica, New York, Philbrick studied at the Art Institute of Chicago and in Paris at the Academie Colarossi and the Academie Julian with Jean Paul Laurens from 1904-1906. From 1906 to 1953, he taught at the Art Institute of Chicago.
Joann and Gifford Phillips are art patrons and collectors from Santa Fe, N.M. Gifford Phillips is the nephew of Duncan Phillips and a collector and founder of the Phillips Collection, Washington, D.C.
The Phoenix Gallery is a cooperative art gallery in New York, N.Y. The gallery was founded in 1958 and has featured artists such as Elaine de Kooning, John Fischer, Alice Neel, and Jay Milder.
Painter, printmaker; Sherborn, Massachusetts. Born 1908.
Sue Pierce is a quiltmaker and curator in Rockville, Maryland.
Pierce received a Bachelor of Arts degree in math from Duke University in 1965. She found that she enjoyed experimenting with fabrics when she created a quilt as a wedding gift for her brother in 1975. In 1985, she rented studio space to focus on her art full time. In 1992, Pierce began gathering material for the Full Deck project, in which 54 quilters were chosen to pick a unique playing card and interpret the card in a quilt. The project culminated in the exhibition, Full Deck Art Quilts, that opened in 1995 at the Smithsonian's Renwick Gallery, with a catalog written by Verna Suit. Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service (SITES) then circulated the exhibition across the country.
Pierce's work is in the collections of the author Tom Wolfe, the U.S. Department of State, National Institutes of Health, and others. She is a member of the American Craft Council, Studio Art Quilt Association, and Art Quilt Network/New York, and was a founding board member of Arts Place.
Robert Pincus-Witten (1935-2018) was an art historian, educator, critic, and curator in New York, New York.
Born in the Bronx, Pincus-Witten attended PS4, the New York High School of Music and Art, and The Cooper Union. During this time Pincus-Witten met his husband, Leon Hecht, who lived on the same block and was in the same kindergarten class at PS4. He also formed a lifelong friendship with high school classmate and artist, Ray Johnson. Pincus-Witten received a Master of Fine Arts and PhD from the University of Chicago and lived abroad in the late 1950s and early 1960s. Pincus-Witten became interested in art at a very early age and received recognition in the Regional and National Scholastic Art Awards in 1950 and 1952.
While living abroad and finishing his doctorate, Pincus-Witten accepted a teaching position at Queens College, part of the City University of New York (CUNY) network, where he taught art history courses until his retirement in 1991. Coining the term, "postminimalism," Pincus-Witten played a central role in explicating postmodern art as it emerged between 1960 and his death in 2018. He exhaustively documented his daily life on the front lines of the art world as a contributing editor for Artforum for nearly fifty years, including a stint as senior editor from 1973-1974. In addition to his long teaching career at the CUNY, Pincus-Witten worked for Larry Gagosian and Robert Mnuchin, curating exhibitions and writing catalog essays for their galleries. He was the author of several books, including Postminimalism (1977).
Robert Edge Pine (1730?-1788) was a portait and historical painter from Philadelphia, Penn. Pine was born in London and emigrated to U.S. in 1784.
Painter; Philadelphia, Pa. Died 1991.
Horace Pippin (1888 -1946) was a self-taught painter from West Chester, Pennsylvania. Pippin was inspired to paint by his experiences in France during World War I. He lost the use of his right arm when wounded during the war and, when painting, had to use his left hand to guide his right. He gained a national reputation as "a true American primitive" in the 1940s for his paintings depicting childhood memories, war experiences, heroes, and religious subjects.
Painter, art instructor; Philadelphia, Pa. Born in Epworth, North Carolina, Pittman moved permanently to Pennsylvania in 1918.
Elizabeth Piutti-Barth (1872-1959) was a portrait painter in Boston, Massachusetts.
Art collector Silvia Pizitz (1905-1991) was active in New York City, New York. Born in Birmingham, Alabama, Pizitz studied at the Grand Central School of Art and continued her appreciation of art by acquiring a large art collection. Later in life, she donated her collection to various institutions including Cornell University, New York University, and the University of Birmingham.
Peter Plagens (1941-) is an art critic, painter, and writer living in New York City. Plagens studied studied painting at the University of Southern California and did graduate work at Syracuse University. In 1965, he returned to Southern California, where he worked as a curator and became a regular contributor to Artforum. His paintings were exhibited in such landmark exhibitions as the Los Angeles County Museum of Art's "24 Young Los Angeles Arts," in 1971, and the following year, the Whitney Biennial. He is best known for his first book, "Sunshine Muse: Modern Art on the West Coast, 1945-1970," published in 1974. In the mid 1970s, Plagens served as chair of the board of the fledgling Los Angeles Institute of Contemporary Art. In the late 1980s, Plagens moved to New York, where he continued to paint and where he contributed art criticism to Newsweek. He has taught at numerous universities, including California State University, Northridge, University of Southern California, and University of North Carolina.
Art collector and author; Englewood, N.J.
Art periodical, New York, N.Y, devoted to the exposition of contemporary literary and artistic expression. Playboy ran from January 1919 to June 1924. Publication was suspended from July 1921 to February 1923. Nos. 4-5 issued in one number. Issue for 1st quarter 1923 called v. 2, no. 1 but would be no. 8 in whole numbering sequence.
Carolyn Gassan Plochman (1926- ) is a painter in Carbondale, Illinois.
Gina Plunguian (d. 1962) was a sculptor from Newark, Del.
American agent to Latin America and Secretary of War in the Van Buren administration.
Stephen (Steve) Poleskie (1938-2019) was a painter and printmaker in New York. From 1963 to 1968 he operated Chiron Press, New York City's first fine art screen printing studio. In 1968, Poleskie sold Chiron Press and became a professor of studio art at Cornell University from 1968 until his retirement in 2000. Poleskie was also a skilled pilot and would create art while flying and trailing smoke, the performance of which he coined, Aerial Theater.
Jackson Pollock was born in 1912, in Cody, Wyoming, the youngest of five sons. His family moved several times during his childhood, finally settling in Los Angeles. In 1930 he joined his older brother, Charles, in New York City, and studied with Regionalist painter Thomas Hart Benton at the Art Students League of New York. Pollock worked during the 1930s for the Works Progress Administration's Federal Art Project. During 1936 he worked in artist David Alfaro Siqueiros's Experimental Workshop. In 1938 he began psychiatric treatment for alcoholism, and his artwork was greatly influenced by Jungian analysis and the exploration of unconscious symbolism.
 In 1943 Pollock had his first one-man exhibition at Peggy Guggenheim's New York gallery, Art of this Century, and continued to exhibit there over the next several years. A major turning point in Pollock's life and art was in 1945 when he married fellow artist Lee Krasner and moved to East Hampton, Long Island. There he developed his mature painting style, and became famous for his abstract pouring technique on large canvases. The height of his creativity spanned from 1947 to 1952, and his work was promoted by art critic Clement Greenberg. Along with other abstract expressionists including Hans Hofmann, Alfonso Ossorio, and Barnett Newman, he joined the Betty Parsons Gallery in 1947. He had his most successful one-man show in 1950 which was widely publicized and praised. This exhibition, combined with a 1949 feature article in LIFE magazine, made Pollock an American celebrity.
 In 1952 Pollock moved his work to Sidney Janis Gallery and returned to earlier motifs in a search for new breakthroughs. The last few years of his life he suffered from mental and physical health problems, and in August, 1956 he died in a car accident. His wife, Lee Krasner, oversaw his estate and worked with many museums, including the Museum of Modern Art, on Pollock retrospective exhibitions.
 Lee Krasner was born Lenore Krassner in 1908 in Brooklyn, New York to Russian immigrant parents. In 1926 she was admitted to the Women's Art School of The Cooper Union, and in 1928 she attended the Art Students League. After graduating from The Cooper Union in 1929, she attended the National Academy of Design until 1932. After briefly attending City College and Greenwich House, she worked for the Public Works of Art Project and the Temporary Emergency Relief Administration, and finally became an assistant in 1935 on the WPA Federal Art Project, Mural Division. From 1937 to 1940 she studied at the Hans Hofmann School of Fine Arts and began exhibiting with the American Abstract Artists group.
 In 1942 Krasner met Pollock as they were both preparing to exhibit work in the same show. Although they married and she became immersed in his career, she continued to exhibit her own work with other abstract artists and from 1946 to 1949 worked on the Little Image painting series. In 1953 she began working on collages, a medium she would come back to again later in her career. After Pollock's death her work was greatly influence by her sadness and anger, creating a visible evolution of her style.
For the rest of her career, Krasner consistently exhibited her work in both group and solo exhibitions. She had her first retrospective at Whitechapel Gallery, London, in 1965, and in 1966, she joined Marlborough Gallery, New York which represented Pollock's work as well. In the 1970s and early 1980s Krasner won many awards for her achievement in the visual arts, including the Augustus St. Gaudens Medal and the Chevalier de l'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres. She returned to the medium of collage, and in 1976 joined the Pace Gallery, New York. In 1981 she joined the Robert Miller Gallery, New York. Lee Krasner continued creating art until her death in 1984.
Landscape and portrait painter, sculptor, and writer; Hollywood, Calif. and Great Falls, Va. b. 1924; d. 2001
Henry Varnum Poor (1888-1970), best known as a potter, ceramic artist, and a co-founder of the Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture, was also an architect, painter, muralist, designer, educator, and writer who lived and worked in New City, New York.
A native of Chapman, Kansas, Henry Varnum Poor moved with his family to Kansas City when his grain merchant father became a member of the Kansas Board of Trade. From a young age he showed artistic talent and spent as much time as possible - including school hours - drawing. When a school supervisor suggested that Henry leave school to study at the Art Institute of Chicago, the family disagreed. Instead, he enrolled in the Kansas City Manual Training High School where he delighted in learning skills such as carpentry, forge work, and mechanical drawing. In 1905, he moved with his older brother and sister to Palo Alto, California and completed high school there. Because Poor was expected to join the family business, he enrolled at Stanford University as an economics major, but much to his father's disappointment and displeasure, soon left the economics department and became an art major.
Immediately after graduation in 1910, Poor and his major professor at Stanford, Arthur B. Clark, took a summer bicycling tour to look at art in London, France, Italy, and Holland. As Poor had saved enough money to remain in London after the summer was over, he enrolled in the Slade School of Art and also studied under Walter Sickert at the London County Council Night School. After seeing an exhibition of Post-Impressionism at the Grafton Galleries in London, Poor was so impressed that he went to Paris and enrolled in the Académie Julian. While in Paris, Poor met Clifford Addams, a former apprentice of Whistler; soon he was working in Addams' studio learning Whistler's palette and techniques.
In the fall of 1911, Poor returned to Stanford University's art department on a one-year teaching assignment. During that academic year, his first one-man show was held at the university's Old Studio gallery. He married Lena Wiltz and moved back to Kansas to manage the family farm and prepare for another exhibition. Their daughter, Josephine Lydia Poor, was born the following year. Poor returned to Stanford in September 1913 as assistant professor of graphic arts, remaining until the department closed three years later. During this period, Poor began to exhibit more frequently in group shows in other areas of the country, and had his first solo exhibition at a commercial gallery (Helgesen Gallery, San Francisco). In 1916, Poor joined the faculty of the San Francisco Art Association. He and his wife separated in 1917 and were divorced the following year. Poor began sharing his San Francisco studio with Marion Dorn.
During World War I, Poor was drafted into the U. S. Army, and in 1918 went to France with the 115th Regiment of Engineers. He spent his spare time drawing; soon officers were commissioning portraits, and Poor was appointed the regimental artist. He also served as an interpreter for his company. Discharged from the Army in early 1919, Poor spent the spring painting in Paris. He then returned to San Francisco and married Marion Dorn.
Once Poor realized that earning a living as a painter would be extremely difficult in California, he and his new wife moved to New York in the autumn of 1919. They were looking for a place to live when influential book and art dealer Mary Mowbray-Clarke of the Sunwise Turn Bookshop in Manhattan suggested New City in Rockland County, New York as good place for artists. In January of 1920, the Poors purchased property on South Mountain Road in New City. The skills he acquired at the Kansas City Manual Training High School were of immediate use as Poor designed and constructed "Crow House" with the assistance of a local teenager. Influenced by the farmhouses he had seen in France, it was made of local sandstone and featured steep gables, rough plaster, chestnut beams and floors, and incorporated many hand-crafted details. Poor designed and built most of their furniture, too. Before the end of the year, he and Marion were able to move into the house, though it remained a work in progress for many years. Additions were constructed. Over time, gardens were designed and planted, and outbuildings - a kiln and pottery, work room, garage, and new studio - appeared on the property.
In 1925, two years after his divorce from Marion Dorn, Poor married Bessie Freedman Breuer (1893-1975), an editor, short story writer, and novelist. Soon after, he adopted her young daughter, Anne (1918-2002), an artist who served as his assistant on many important mural commissions. Their son, Peter (b. 1926) became a television producer. Crow House remained in the family until its sale in 2006. In order to prevent its demolition, Crow House was then purchased by the neighboring town of Ramapo, New York in 2007.
Between 1935 and 1966 Poor designed and oversaw construction of a number of houses, several of them situated not far from Crow House on South Mountain Road. Poor's designs, noted for their simplicity, featured modern materials and incorporated his ceramic tiles. Among his important commissions were houses for Maxwell Anderson, Jules Billig, Milton Caniff, MacDonald Deming, and John Houseman.
Poor's first exhibition of paintings in New York City was at Kevorkian Galleries in 1920, and sales were so disappointing that he turned his attention to ceramics. His first pottery show, held at Bel Maison Gallery in Wanamaker's department store in 1921, was very successful. He quickly developed a wide reputation, participated in shows throughout the country, and won awards. He was a founder of the short-lived American Designers' Gallery, and the tile bathroom he showed at the group's first exposition was critically acclaimed. Poor was represented by Montross Gallery as both a painter and potter. When Montross Gallery closed upon its owner's death in 1932, Poor moved to the Frank K. M. Rehn Gallery.
Even though Poor's pottery and ceramic work was in the forefront, he continued to paint. His work was acquired by a number of museums, and the Limited Editions Club commissioned him to illustrate their republications of Ethan Frome, The Scarlet Letter, and The Call of the Wild.
Poor's first work in true fresco was shown in a 1932 mural exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art. Between 1935 and 1949 he was commissioned to produce several murals in fresco for Section of Fine Arts projects at the Department of Justice and the Department of the Interior, The Land Grant Frescoes at Pennsylvania State College, and a mural for the Louisville Courier-Journal. Ceramic tile mural commissions included: the Klingenstein Pavilion, Mt. Sinai Hospital, New York City; Travelers Insurance Co., Boston; the Fresno Post Office, California; and Hillson Memorial Gallery, Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.
As a member of the War Artists' Unit, Poor was a "war correspondent" with the rank of major in World War II, and for several months in 1943 was stationed in Alaska. An Artist Sees Alaska, drawing on Poor's observations and experiences, was published in 1945. A Book of Pottery: From Mud to Immortality, his second book, was published in 1958. It remains a standard text on the subject. While on the faculty of Columbia University in the 1950s, Poor and other artists opposed to the growing influence of Abstract Expressionism formed the Reality Group with Poor the head of its editorial committee. Their magazine, Reality: A Journal of Artists' Opinions, first appeared in 1953 featuring "Painting is Being Talked to Death" by Poor as its lead article. Two more issues were published in 1954 and 1955.
Along with Willard Cummings, Sidney Simon, and Charles Cuttler, in 1946 Henry Varnum Poor helped to establish the Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture in Skowhegan, Maine. He served as its first president. Poor and his daughter, Anne, were active members of the Board of Trustees and were instructors for many years. The summer of 1961 was Henry Varnum Poor's last as a full-time teacher, though he continued to spend summers at Skowhegan.
Henry Varnum Poor exhibited widely and received many awards, among them prizes at the Carnegie Institute, Syracuse Museum of Fine Arts, Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, and the Architectural League of New York. Poor was appointed to the United States Commission of Fine Arts by President Roosevelt in 1941 and served a five year term. He was elected a member of the National Institute of Arts and Letters in 1943. The National Academy of Design named him an Associate Artist in 1954 and an Academician in 1963. He became a trustee of the American Craftsman's Council in 1956. The work of Henry Vernum Poor is represented in the permanent collections of many American museums including the Cleveland Museum of Art, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Brooklyn Museum, Addison Gallery of American Art, and Syracuse Museum of Fine Arts.
Henry Varnum Poor died at home in New City, New York, December 8, 1970.
Painter, educator; Minneapolis, Minnesota.
Painter, sculptor, gallery owner; Wainscott, N.Y. Porter opened the G Place Gallery with Caresse Crosby in 1943.
Laurence M. Porter is the son of New York-based painter, lithographer, art critic and poet Fairfield Porter (1907-1975).
William Merritt Post was a landscape painter from Conn., b. 12/11/1856, Brooklyn, N.Y.; d. 3/22/1935, N.Y.; Johnson, a collector from Flint, Mich.
Literary agent and publishing consultant; New York, N.Y.
Art historian and curator at Museum of Modern Art and Huntington Hartford Gallery of Modern Art; New York, N.Y. Died 1992.
Edith Mitchell Prellwitz (1865-1944) was a painter in New York City and Long Island, New York. She studied at the Art Students League and was known for her tonalist landscapes and portraits. She was married to Henry Prellwitz and they lived along Peconic Bay, Long Island later in life.
Painter, sculptor; Boston, Massachusetts.
Superintendent of the U.S. Senate; Washington, D.C.
Collector; New York, N.Y. Bricher was a wood engraver.
Morris W. Primoff (1899-1986) was a New York attorney. Thomas H. Benton (1889-1975) was a painter, mural painter based in New York, N.Y.
Katherine Prince, her sister Leslie, and her daughter Susie Livermore Sutton (1855-1938) were friends and neighbors to James McNeill Whistler in Lowell, Massachusetts, where Whistler was born in 1834. Whistler and his family moved to Connecticut in 1837, but during their time in Lowell, the Whistlers had become close friends of the Prince family and remained friends with the daughters of the Prince family over many decades. Frequent trips to England and periods of residency in London kept Katherine Prince in close touch with Deborah Whistler and her brother James. Susie Livermore Sutton was a lifelong associate of Whistler. These mementos of an extended family friendship show a familial side of Whistler, who enjoyed the company of his sister Deborah, and their friends in the Prince family.
Eve Propp befriended artist Joseph Cornell (1903-1972) while operating a short lived gallery in New York, N.Y. She visited him at his home on Wednesdays from 1969-1970. She now resides in upstate New York.
The Public Works of Art Project (PWAP), the first of the New Deal art programs, was established under the Department of the Treasury in December 1933 to assist unemployed artists by enabling them to work on the decoration of non-federal public buildings. Although it lasted only until the following summer, it engaged nearly 4,000 artists in all parts of the country and served as an important precedent for subsequent federal art programs, such as the Federal Art Project of the Works Progress Administration. Later art projects administered under the Department of the Treasury were the Section of Fine Arts, originally the Section of Painting and Sculpture, and the Treasury Relief Art Project, both of which served to employ artists to decorate federal buildings across the United States.
Radio show; New York, N.Y. The radio announcer identifies Fernando Puma (b. 1915) as a "prominent modern artist and gallery owner," and Helen Waren as an "actress and art lover."
Art patrons; San Diego, California. Henry William and Elbert H. Putnam were brothers. Amy, Anne and Irene were daughters of Henry.
Painter, writer, lithographer, and draftsman; Yorktown Heights, N.Y.
Newsam was a deaf lithographer, Philadelphia, Pa. Pyatt was an instructor in the Pennsylvania Institute for the Deaf and Dumb.
Illustrator and children's book author; Wilmington, Del.
Pyramid Group was a New York City-based artists organization founded in 1947 by Lois Dodd for the purpose of providing exhibition opportunities for young artists.
Sculptor; Long Island City, New York.
Painter; San Francisco, Calif.
Walter Quirt (1902-1968) was a painter and teacher in Minneapolis, Minn. Quirt taught at the University of Minnesota, 1945-1968
Painter; Cambridge, Mass.
Marine painter; Boston, Mass.
Mel Ramos (1935-2018), born Melvin John Ramos, was a painter, pop artist, and teacher in California. Ramos was born in Sacramento, California. In 1955 he married Leta Helmers, who served as a model for many of his early paintings. Ramos received his M.A. from Sacramento State College in 1958 and taught a Mira Loma High School. In 1963 his work was included in Six More, a major exhibition of Pop Art at the Los Angeles County Museum. One year later he had his first solo show in New York at Bianchini Gallery. In 1965, he began showing his art at David Stuart Gallery in Los Angeles. Ramos also had a long career (1966-1997) as a professor at California State University, East Bay.
Charles Ramsburg (1942- ) is an artist in New York City who creates sculptures and drawings related to the minutiae of nature. Originally from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Ramsburg studied at the San Francisco Art Institute, University of Arizona, and University of California at Santa Barbara. He moved to New Mexico in 1970, and after several decades returned to the east coast. Ramsburg's work has been featured in exhibitions internationally, and he has been represented by Carter Burden Gallery in New York and Horwitch LewAllen Gallery in New Mexico.
Art historian, curator; National Museum of American Art, Washington, D.C. Jackson (1907-1969) was an art collector, dealer, and painter. She operated the Martha Jackson Gallery, New York City. Her collection was given to the National Museum of American Art in 1981 by her estate.
Painter; Houston, Tex.
Painter, sculptor; Washington, D.C. Variable forms of her name are notably E. R. (Elvine Richard) Rankine, Vivian Scott Rankine, and her former married name, Mrs. Paul Scott.
Kramer is an assemblage artist and sculptor. Abraham Rattner (1895-1978) was a painter in New York, N.Y. His 2nd wife, Esther Gentle, was also a painter.
Photographer. Halpert was director of the Downtown Gallery, New York, N.Y. and a friend of director of museum director, James W. Foster.
Read was the art critic for the Brooklyn Daily Eagle and gallery director of Portraits, Inc., Portrait Center of America, New York, N.Y.
Sculptor; Washington, D.C. Myers was a Congressman.
Abstract painter, art collector, and museum director Hilla Rebay (1890-1967) was active in New York City, New York, and served as the first director of the Guggenheim Museum.
Born Baroness Hildegard Anna Augusta Elisabeth Rebay von Ehrenwiesen in France, she studied art in Germany, Switzerland, and France. Rebay worked with Solomon Guggenheim to form a collection of Non-Objective paintings which became the foundation of the art collection of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum.
Painter Paul Allen Reed (1919-2015) was born, and lived for most of his life, in Washington, D.C. He was a member of the Washington Color School, whose style of abstract color-field painting emerged and flourished in the city's art scene during the 1960s.
Reed taught at the Corcoran School of Art from 1971 to the early 1980s. His work can be found in the collections of the National Gallery of Art, the Smithsonian American Art Museum, the Art Institute of Chicago, and other museums.
Painter, World War II artist-correspondent.
Albert Reese was a writer and teacher from New York City.
Designer, weaver, educator; Chicago, Ill. Else Regensteiner is also known by the fuller form of her name: Else Friedsam Regensteiner.
Painter; San Francisco, Calif.
Robert Reid (1862-1929) was a painter, muralist, craftsman, and teacher who worked primarily in New York City and Colorado.
Robert Reid was born in 1862 in Stockbridge Massachusetts and studied at the School of Painting and Drawing of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, from 1880-1884. He then moved to New York City and studied at the Art Students' League before moving to Paris in 1885, where he continued his studies at the Académie Julian over the next four years.
In 1887 Reid embarked on a tour of Italy that included visits to Milan, Venice, Florence, Rome and Naples. On his visits to Naples he was accompanied by several cousins, including Clara Field, who were on an extended European tour. Throughout the year Reid recorded his experiences and impressions in letters to his sister, Sara Bigelow Reid. In March of 1887 he submitted the first of three paintings to the Paris Salon, all of which were subsequently accepted.
In 1889 Reid returned to the United States and settled in New York City, teaching at the Cooper Union and the Art Students' League and painting portraits before embarking on various mural and decorative art projects. His first mural project was for one of the eight domes in the Liberal Arts Building of the World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago in 1892. In 1897 he painted allegories of the five senses for octagonal panels in the Library of Congress, and in 1899 executed a large allegorical mural for the New York Appellate Division Court House. The Boston State House includes three large panels, including "Paul Revere's Ride" and the "Boston Tea Party," painted by Reid between 1901 and 1904. His stained glass work included a 1906 series of ten windows for the Unitarian Memorial Church at Fairhaven, Massachusetts.
During the 1890s Reid's return to outdoor work and his easel paintings demonstrated a balance between decorative and Impressionist techniques, and were often of women in landscape settings holding or carrying flowers. In 1898 he exhibited as one of the Ten American Painters who seceded from the Society of American Artists in favor of a less traditional, more Impressionistic style.
In the 1920s Reid moved to Colorado Springs and taught at the Broadmoor Art Academy. Several years before his death, Reid taught himself to paint with his left hand after suffereing a stroke that resulted in paralysis of his right hand. He died in Clifton Springs, New York, in 1929.
H. Barbara Weinberg's 1975 essay "Robert Reid: Academic 'Impressionist'" (Archives of American Art Journal, Vol 15, No. 1, 1975) was used in the writing of this Biographical Note.
Ad Reinhardt was born "Frederick Adolph Reinhardt" in 1913 in Buffalo, New York. He would, by the time he enrolled in elementary school, go by the name of Adolph Friedrich Reinhardt, which he would use on official documents for the rest of his life. Shortly after he was born, his family moved to Queens, New York. As a child he copied "funnies" and made collages from newspapers and won many school and community prizes for his artwork. In the fall of 1931 he entered Columbia University and studied art history under Meyer Schapiro, who encouraged him to get involved in radical campus politics. Reinhardt became the editor and cover designer of Jester, a campus magazine. After graduating in 1935, he trained as a painter at the National Academy of Design under Karl Anderson, and at the American Artists School under Francis Criss and Carl Holty, until 1937. At this time he joined American Abstract Artists and became affiliated with American artistic-political groups and other artist organizations. From 1936 to 1941 he worked for the Works Progress Administration (WPA) Federal Art Project, Easel Division, while simultaneously developing his mature style of linear, abstract painting.
When his work for the Federal Art Project ended, Reinhardt worked as a commercial and freelance writer and graphic artist for pamphlets and magazines. Most notably, he was a reporter and cartoonist for the newspaper PM from 1942 to 1947. After serving in the Navy from 1946 to 1947, he took a position as an art history professor at Brooklyn College where he taught for twenty years. During his career as a professor he was also a visiting lecturer at several universities, including Yale University from 1952 to 1953, and the California School of Fine Arts in 1950. Reinhardt had a keen interest in Asiatic art and would often lecture and write on this subject. In the late 1950s and early 1960s he traveled to Japan, India, Persia, Egypt, Turkey, Syria, and Jordan.
Reinhardt began exhibiting his paintings early in his career. In 1946 he joined the Betty Parsons Gallery, which also represented many other prominent Abstract Expressionists, including Mark Rothko, Barnet Newman, and Jackson Pollock. Reinhardt rejected the emotionalism found in Abstract Expressionism and sought to produce geometric, minimalist paintings. In developing his own aesthetic theory, he wrote extensively for art periodicals such as Art News and Art International. His artwork culminated in the 1960s with his series of black paintings, which drew much attention from the art community and the public. A major retrospective of his work was held at the Jewish Museum in New York, NY, in 1960. Reinhardt continued to write and work on his series of black paintings until his death in 1967.
The Renaissance Guild was formed in 1994 by Gail Ryan, William Jackson and Frederick Hund in order to begin documentation of the professional lives of recognized sculptors of the Berkshire region. It is formed under the aegis of the Berkshire Taconic Community Foundation, Inc., a non-profit philanthropic and financial management organization.
Sculptor, medalist.
Merry Renk (1921-2012) was a jeweler, painter, and metal-worker in San Francisco, California.
Renk was born in Trenton, New Jersey as Mary Ruth Gibbs. She studied painting at the Trenton School of Industrial Arts before moving to Chicago in 1946 to study at Illinois Institute of Technology. In Chicago, Renk founded the 750 Studio, an art gallery, with Olive Oliver and Mary Jo Slick. After taking some time to travel, she settled in San Francisco in 1948 where she became a prominent member of the arts and crafts community. Renk was instrumental in the founding of the San Francisco Metal Arts Guild and served as president in 1954. She also became an honorary fellow at the American Craft Council.
Renk is primarily known for her jewelry work but after suffering an eye injury in a car accident she began focusing on creating large scale sculptures using jewelry techniques sometime in the 1960s to 1970s.
Renk married Stanley Edwin Renk in 1941. After his death in World War II, she married fellow artist Earle Watt Curtis in 1958.
James Renwick was an architect; New York City. His brothers, Henry Brevoort and Edward Sabine, were an engineer and patent expert, respectively.
Artist; Rockville Centre, New York.
Isadore Ressler (1861-1947) was a painter and gallery owner of Detroit, Michigan.
Katharine Rhoades (1885-1965) was a painter in New York City, New York. She exhibited at the landmark Armory Show in 1913 and studied in Paris with Robert Henri.
Muralist, illustrator, educator; Cleveland, Ohio. Riba studied at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts and the Cleveland Institute of Art. After a career as a mural painter and an illustrator in advertisting, he joined the faculty of The Cleveland Institute of Art, where he taught for fourteen years. Riba's style is often identified as Magic Realism.
Nan Rice (1890-1955) was a Canadian born painter and lecturer of Chicago, Illinois and Stockton, California.
Art historian, museum director, and writer E. P. (Edgar Preston) Richardson (1902-1985) served as director of the Detroit Institute of Arts (1945-1962) and Winterthur Museum (1963-1966). He was also a board member of the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts from 1966-1977 and, in 1954, co-founded the Archives of American Art, Smithsonian Institution.
E. P. Richardson was born in 1902 in Glens Falls, New York and died in Philadelphia in 1985. He graduated from Williams College in Massachusetts in 1925 and studied painting at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts for the three years following graduation. In 1930 he became educational secretary at the Detroit Institute of Arts, was quickly named assistant director in 1933, and served as director from 1945 to 1962. He left Detroit to take the position of director of the Winterthur Museum, where he remained until 1966.
Richardson married Constance Coleman in 1931. Born in Berlin, Germany in 1905, Constance Coleman Richardson was an award-winning and widely exhibited realist style painter of American landscapes. She gave up painting in the 1960s and died in 2002.
While at the Detroit Institute of Arts, E. P. Richardson co-founded the Archives of American Art with Lawrence Fleischman, and served as the Archives' first director. Richardson was also art advisor to John D. Rockefeller III for over ten years, editor of Art Quarterly from 1938 to 1967, and a member of various boards, including the Historical Society of Pennsylvania, the Smithsonian Arts Commission, and the National Portrait Gallery. He authored numerous books including ones on artists Washington Allston and Charles Willson Peale, and The Way of Western Art: American Romantic Painting (1939), Painting in America: The Story of Four Hundred and Fifty Years (1956), A Short History of Painting in America (1963), and American Art, an Exhibition of the Collection of Mr. and Mrs. John D. Rockefeller, 3d (1976).
Painter, printmaker; Dallas, Tex.
The Richard Kuhlenschmidt Gallery (est. 1980-1993) was a commercial gallery in Los Angeles, California, that focused on conceptual and post-conceptual art.
Richard Kuhlenschmidt (1951- ) studied art and film before becoming an exhibition designer at the Bowers Museum in Santa Ana where he worked with Tom Jancar. The two friends opened and operated the Jancar Kuhlenschmidt Gallery from 1980 until 1982. Kuhlenschmidt continued to operate as the Richard Kuhlenschmidt Gallery from 1982 to 1985, the Kuhlenschmidt Simon Gallery from 1986 to 1988, and again as the Richard Kuhlenschmidt Gallery from 1989 to 1993.
Artists such as Cindy Bernard, Nayland Blake, Barbara Bloom, John Knight, Louise Lawler, William Leavitt, Allan McCollum, Matt Mullican, Jack Pierson, Mitchell Syrop, James Welling, and others were represented by Kuhlenschmidt. The gallery held the exhibition Joe Bishop / AIDS Benefit (1985) and the exhibition Six Projects for Four Cities (1990) highlighting the work of architecture firm Coop Himmelb(l)au.
William Trost Richards was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in 1833. From 1850 to 1858 he worked as a designer and illustrator of ornamental metalwork, and briefly studied draughtsmanship and painting with the German artist Paul Weber. Richards was also an active member of the Forensic and Literary Circle of Philadelphia during the early 1850s. In 1852 he had his first exhibition at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts and a year later was elected a full Academician. He had great interest in landscapes and geological subjects, and spent summers sketching in the Catskills and Adirondacks. From 1855 to 1856 Richards toured Europe with William Stanley Haseltine and Alexander Lawrie, and was influenced by the Dusseldorf school of landscape painters.
Richards married aspiring poetess Anna Matlack in 1856, and they settled in Germantown, Pennsylvania, where they had eight children, five of which survived to adulthood. In 1858 he attended an exhibition of British art in Philadelphia, and was greatly influenced by the works of Pre-Raphaelite painters. He began painting outdoors, executing precise, naturalistic, yet atmospheric, landscapes. In 1862 he joined the National Academy of Design, and in 1863 joined the Society for the Advancement of Truth in Art, an American Pre-Raphaelite organization. From 1868 to 1874, Richards spent summers on the East Coast and began focusing on marine subjects painted in watercolor, exhibiting often with the American Watercolor Society. Richards also traveled to Europe several times, and lived there from 1879-1880 while trying to find a new direction for his artwork. In 1881 he built a summer house for his family in Newport, Rhode Island and moved there permanently in 1890. His wife Anna died in 1900, and he continued to paint landscapes and seascapes until his death in 1905.
Artist.
Michael Rinaldini is a photographer from Cambridge, Mass.
Engraver; New York, N.Y.
Railroad and banking tycoon, art collector; active in New Orleans in the mid-nineteenth century. Robb collected European and American art. Much of his collection was sold in 1859; some works from his collection are in the New Orleans Museum of Art.
Sunday editor of THE COURIER-JOURNAL; Louisville, Ky. Strater was a Ogunquit, Me. painter (d. 1987).
Florence V. Robinson (1874-1937) was a painter, primarily a watercolorist, in New York City, New York and Petersham, Massachusetts.
Elizabeth Reynolds Hapgood is the daughter of Robinson's longtime companion, Margaret Reynolds.
Painter, teacher, designer.
Modeling, sculpting, and stone carving company; New York, N.Y.
Painter, printmaker, craftsman, teacher; Great Bend, Kansas and California. Died 1987. Painter of western America landscapes and scenes. Assistant director-manager of the Huntington Hartford Foundation, Pacific Palisades, California.
Writer.
Collector; Houston, Tex.
Art collector and instructor; Clinton, N.Y. Collector of predominately American avant-garde art. Taught art at Hamilton College. Edward is the son of Elihu Root.
The Rosamund Felsen Gallery was established in 1978 in Los Angeles, California by Rosamund Felsen. The gallery closed its physical location in 2016 after nearly four decades as a widely influential contemporary art gallery.
In 1960, Rosamund Felsen began her art career working as an assistant registrar for the Pasadena Art Museum, and eventually became curator of prints. Felsen also worked at Gemini GEL: Graphics Editions Limited alongside her second husband, Gemini co-founder Sidney Felsen. From these positions, Felsen became friendly with both established and younger artists, learned to mount exhibitions, and participated in art-related operations. In 1977, Timothea Stewart asked Felsen if she would like to work at her new gallery. After two exhibitions, Felsen took over the Timothea Stewart Gallery and started her own.
Rosamund Felsen gallery exhibited artists working in various mediums, including video and sound, and frequently showed live performance art. Early artists exhibited at the gallery included Richard Jackson, Keith Sonnier, Maria Nordman, Chris Burden, and William Wegman. Felsen gallery opened Robert Rauschenberg's In + Out City Limits: Los Angeles (1981) on New Year's Eve; and added artists Jeffrey Vallance, Mike Kelley, Lari Pittman, and Erika Rothenberg to its roster by the end of the 1980s. Felsen brought on a list of new artists in the 1990s, including Paul McCarthy, Renee Petropoulos, Tim Ebner, Meg Cranston, Steven Hull, and Nancy Jackson. The gallery continued to show solo and group exhibitions of its artists, and featured a run of smaller artist-curated exhibitions of local and international artists. The Project Wall exhibitions included artist/curators Andrea Bowers and Steven Hull and showed European artists Erwin Wurm and Nils Norman. By 2004, Felsen's artists were all living in Los Angeles except for two, video artists Judith Barry and Joan Jonas.
In 1990, the gallery moved from Los Angeles to West Hollywood on Santa Monica Boulevard. Four years later, Felsen Gallery moved to a location in the Bergamot Station Arts Center, where it remained until 2015. After Bergamot, the gallery moved to the Arts District in Los Angeles. Rosamund Felsen Gallery closed its physical location in 2016, but continued representing a number of artists online.
Sculptor, educator; New York City.
Rosenthal was a painter, engraver, lithographer, collector; Philadelphia, Pa., known for his portraits of Supreme Court Justices.
Painter, portrait painter, lithographer, art collector; New Hope, Pa.
Bernard Rosenquit (1923-1991) was a painter and printmaker in New York , N.Y.
Rose Fried established the Rose Fried Gallery in the 1940s in New York City, New York. Fried established the gallery when she took over the Pinacotheca Gallery owned by Dan Harris. The Gallery specialized in abstract and modern art, and represented cubists, futurists, Dadaists, and masters of Latin American art. The Rose Fried Gallery was instrumental in introducing the American public to many abstract painters, including Mondrian and Kandinsky. The Gallery remained operational until Fried's death in 1970.
Moses Ros (1958- ), also known as Moses Ros-Suárez, is a Dominican American installation artist in Bronx, New York. He was born in New York City to Dominican born parents. Ros received a bachelor's degree in architecture from Pratt Institute and is a licensed architect in the state of New York. He incorporates his knowledge of architecture into his numerous sculptural designs for community centers, daycare facilities, and other public spaces. He has completed sculpture, design, and mural commissions for the New York City Housing Authority, Bronx Council on the Arts, the Department of Cultural Affairs, and the Metropolitan Transit Authority. Ros has also been active with collaborative artist groups such as Dominican York Proyecto GRAFICA and MUD/Bone Print Studio.
Painter, art instructor. Born Pennsylvania; active in many Philadelphia art organizations. Best known work "Battle of Gettysburg."
Painter, sculptor; Brooklyn, N.Y.
Gallery director, painter, sculptor, teacher; Falls Church, Va. and Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Founder and director of The Little Gallery, Cedar Rapids, Iowa, 1928-1934. The gallery was concerned with promoting education in the community. Because of his success with the Little Gallery, in 1931 he was chosen by the American Federation of Arts to be the director of a new experimental art center in Cedar Rapids. Rowan was affiliated with the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard before going to Cedar Rapids and served as Chief, Public Buildings Administration, 1930's-1940's.
Glass artist; Seattle, Wash.
Russell family of Pennsylvania were involved in finance, shipping and land enterprises.
Painter, educator, etcher, writer; Berkeley, Calif. Taught at University of California at Berkeley with Hans Hofmann.
Allen Saalburg (1899-1987) was a painter, illustrator, and innovative screenprinter who spent most of his career working in Frenchtown, New Jersey. From 1917 to 1920 he studied painting at the Pratt Institute and the Art Students League. In the late 1920s, Saalburg worked in Paris and had a solo exhibition at Galerie Bernheim-Jeune before returning to New York in 1930.
Throughout his career, Saalburg illustrated covers for popular magazines. His paintings were shown in group exhibitions at the Art Institute of Chicago and Whitney Museum of American Art. Solo exhibitions included shows at Grand Central Galleries and Kraushaar Galleries in New York, and others in New Jersey and Pennsylvania. He produced complex prints based on his paintings and experimented with screenprinting onto non-traditional surfaces. A piece on plastic panels was commissioned for a pavillion at the 1964 New York World's Fair.
Allen Saalburg's marriage to Muriel King, a costume and fashion designer, ended in divorce. His second wife was Mary Faulconer, a painter. Allen Saalburg died in 1987 in Flemington, New Jersey.
Cambridge artist and sculptor, Lilian Swann Saarinen (1912-1995), studied at the Art Students League with Alexander Archipenko in 1928, and later with Albert Stewart and Heninz Warneke from 1934-1936, before moving to Michigan where she studied with Carl Milles at the Cranbrook Academy of Art from 1936-1940. Saarinen was an accomplished skier and a member of the 1936 US Olympic ski team.
At Cranbrook, Swann met architect Eero Saarinen, whom she married in 1939. She subsequently worked with Saarinen's design group on a variety of projects, including the Westward Expansion Memorial, which later became known as the "Gateway Arch" in St. Louis. Lilian and Eero had a son, Eric, and a daughter, Susie, before divorcing in 1953.
Saarinen, who had developed an affinity for drawing animals in childhood, specialized in animal portraits in a variety of sculptural media. In 1939, she exhibited her sculpture Night, which depicted Bagheera the panther from Rudyard Kipling's Jungle Book, at the World's Fair. The sculpture was placed in the Boston Public Garden in 1986. In the 1930s and 1940s Saarinen was commissioned to work on a variety of architectural projects, including reliefs for post offices in Bloomfield, Indiana, Carlisle, Kentucky, and Evanston, Illinois, and the Crow Island School in Winnetka, Illinois. She also executed commissions for the Harbor National Bank in Boston, KLM (Royal Dutch Airlines) at JFK Airport, the Northland shopping Center in Detroit Michigan, and Toffenetti's Restaurant in Chicago.
Saarinen was a contributing author and illustrator for a variety of publications, including Child Life, Interiors and Portfolio: An Intercontinental Quarterly. In 1935 she illustrated Picture Book Zoo for the Bronx Zoo and in 1946 Reynal & Hitchcock, Inc. published Who Am I?, a children's book which Saarinen wrote and illustrated.
Saarinen taught ceramic sculpture to soldiers for the Red Cross Arts and Skills Unit rehabilitation program in 1945, served on the Visiting Committee to the Museum School at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, from 1959-1964, where she taught ceramics, and later taught a course entitled "The Language of Clay" at the Cambridge Art Center and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. One of Saarinen's private students at Cambridge was her cousin, Edie Sedgwick.
Saarinen died in Cohasset, Massachusetts, in 1995 at the age of 83.
Donald Jay Saff, born in Brooklyn, New York, in 1937, is an artist, art historian, and fabricator in Oxford, Maryland known for close collaboration with leading American artists on the fabrication of technically complex artworks. He was exposed to printmaking while an undergraduate at Queens College in 1959, where he earned a B.F.A., followed by a master's degree in art history from Columbia University in 1960, and a M.F.A from Pratt Institute in 1962, and an Ed.D. in studio art and art history from Columbia University in 1964. In 1964 Saff was awarded a Fulbright grant which allowed him to study and work in Urbino, Italy. As an artist Saff created work and exhibited regularly throughout the 1980s. Donald Saff married Ruth Saff in 1960 and they have two sons, Stephen and Jeffery Saff.
Donald Saff was the founder of Graphicstudio in 1968 at the University of South Florida, where he was also chairman of the visual arts department. The studio became known for innovating new printing processes, including helio relief and waxtype. In 1971, Saff became the founding dean of the College of Fine Arts and was awarded the rank of distinguished professor at the university in 1982. In 1986, the National Gallery in Washington announced it would create an archive for all the work of Graphicstudio, a great tribute to Saff's accomplishment. Saff worked with a number of notable artists at Graphicstudio, creating collaborative bonds that would lay the ground for working together on his next venture. In 1991 Saff established his studio Saff Tech Arts (later Saff and Company) in Oxford, Maryland, partially thanks to a loan from key collaborator Robert Rauschenberg. During the early years of Saff Tech Arts Donald Saff also served as a gallery director to Knoedler and Co., which hosted exhibitions for many Saff Tech Arts collaborations. Other frequent collaborators include Nancy Graves, Roy Lichtenstein, James Rosenquist, and James Turrell.
Saff was later named Dean emeritus by University of South Florida in 1989, and distinguished professor emeritus in 1996. In 1999, Saff was awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Fine Arts. As work at Saff Tech Arts slowed down Donald Saff became open to other opportunities in the arts, including a stint as Director of Capital Projects of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation, New York, in 2001, followed by the appointment to Senior Curator of Prints and Drawings in 2002.
Kay Sage (1898-1963) was a Surrealist painter and poet who was born in Albany, New York; raised and educated in Europe; and eventually settled in Woodbury, Connecticut. She was married to Surrealist painter Yves Tanguay from 1940 to 1955. She exhibited widely and her artwork was acquired by many art museums. She died in Connecticut in 1963.
Judith-Ann Saks (1943- ) is a painter in Houston, Texas. She studied at the Texas Academy of Art, the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston, Rice University, and the University of Houston.
Writer, art critic, gallery owner; New York, N.Y.; b. 1895; d. 1967; owner of the Harry Salpeter Gallery; New York, N.Y.
The Molly Saltman "Art and Artists" radio program was broadcast on KPAL radio station in Palm Springs, California from November 2, 1966 to March 4, 1967 on Mondays and Wednesdays at 10:30AM. Molly Saltman (1915-2010), the producer and interviewer for this broadcast, was a well-known Palm Springs artist during this time. Specializing in abstract watercolors, her work was featured in a number of local art shows as well as exhibited in the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, the Palm Springs Desert Museum, and the Hartfield Gallery in Los Angeles. She was also closely involved with the Desert Mental Health Association and served as Chairwoman of the Jewish Family Service in Palm Springs, California.
Emilio Sanchez was born in 1921 in Camaguey, Cuba. He left his native country in 1952 to settle in New York where he became a naturalized citizen of the United States. A prolific painter and printmaker, Sanchez received his formal education at the Art Students' League and Columbia University during the late 1930s, and had his first of many one-man shows in New York in 1949. Sanchez traveled throughout the world sketching his impressions of houses and other buildings and capturing the details of doorways, windows, light, and shadow in his paintings and prints. His paintings of residential architecture in Cuba and throughout the Caribbean are some of his best known works, but in the 1980s he turned much of his attention to the skyline of his adopted home, and was often drawn also to American cities and landscapes over the course of his career.
Sanchez's work is represented in major museums and private collections the world over, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Museum of Modern Art, the Hirshhorn Museum, the National Museum in Havana, and the Cintas Collection. He completed numerous commissions in both the United States and Mexico, has illustrated several books, including Arte del Peru Colonial by Felipe Cossío del Pomar (published in 1958 by the Fondo de Cultura Económica in Mexico), and has exhibited extensively in solo and group exhibitions in locations such as Mexico City, Paris, Havana, Madrid, Puerto Rico, Chile, Colombia, and throughout the United States.
Sanchez died in July, 1999 at the age of 78.
The Sandra Berler Gallery was founded in Chevy Chase, Maryland in 1975 by art dealer and photography critic Sandra Berler. The gallery specialized in twentieth-century photography, exhibiting contemporary and vintage U.S. photographers, including Bruce Davidson, Helen Levitt, Jerome Liebling, Margaretta Mitchell, and Nickolas Muray. The gallery also exhibited and sold international work by Mexican photographers Manuel Alvarez Bravo, Flor Garduno, Graciela Iturbide, Austrian photographer Inge Morath, and French photographer Jacques Henri-Lartigue.
Irving Sandler (1925-2018) was an art critic, art historian, and educator in New York, NY. Sandler was the art critic for Art News, 1956-1962; for the New York Post, 1960-1965; and an instructor of art history at New York University, 1960-1971. During his career, he was director of the Tanager Gallery and the Club organization.
Julia Santos Solomon (1956- ) is an educator, painter, sculptor, digital artist, and textile and fashion designer in the Dominican Republic and Woodstock, New York. Santos Solomon was born in the Dominican Republic in 1956, and she emigrated to the United States in 1966 where she eventually went on to study at the Rhode Island School of Design and Brown University. Santos Solomon was a founding member of Altos de Chavon School of Design of Parsons School of Design, through which her vision shaped generations of successful Dominican artists. She currently resides in Woodstock, New York.
Established in 1947 as a commercial art gallery by librarians at the Santa Monica Library, the gallery exhibited abstract art from 1947 to 1965 when the building was torn down. The gallery exhibited mostly local and amatuer artists, with exceptions like Hans Burkhardt, Wayne Thiebaud, Helen Lundeberg, Stanton Macdanold-Wright, June Wayne, Rico Lebrun, Lorser Feitelson, Francis de Erdely, and Bill Brice.
John Singer Sargent (1856-1925) was a portrait painter from London, England. Born in Florence and educated in Europe. Portrayed members of high society and aristocracy and became one of the most sought after portraitists of his day.
Painter, instructor; Detroit, Michigan. Also known as Sargis Doniki Sargisian.
Raymond Saroff (b. 1922), a resident of New York City, is a filmmaker and collector of both modern and folk art. Saroff pursued his interest in American folk art with his partner, Howard Rose, a scholar and art collector. In 1960, Saroff purchased Leg, a paper maché sculpture by Claes Oldenburg. Around the same time, he became interested in "Happenings." Using borrowed equipment, Saroff filmed a series of 1962 "Happenings" known as "Ray Gun Theater" that Oldenburg presented to small audiences in a storefront on East Second Street, New York City.
Family of engravers and painters; Philadelphia, Pa. John Sartain came to U.S. from England in 1830 and established himself firmly in the Philadelphia artistic community. He was director of the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts for 23 years and served as chief of the art dept. for the 1876 Centennial Exhibition in Philadelphia and the 1887 American Exhibition in London. Four of his eight children became artists, William, Emily, Samuel and Harriet.
Photographer Naomi Siegler Savage (1927-2007) lived and worked in Princeton, New Jersey. While a teenager, Savage attended a photography class taught by Berenice Abbott and pursued this interest at Bennington College in Vermont. In California, Savage apprenticed with her uncle Man Ray, who was a close friend as well as mentor to his niece.
Influenced by Man Ray's experimental techniques with film, Naomi Savage pioneered the use of the photographic metal plate which produced a three dimensional form with a metallic surface. One of her best-known photographic engravings is a magnesium mural for the Johnson Library and Museum in Austin, Texas, depicting the national elective offices held by President Johnson and the various Presidents under which he served. In later years, Savage continued to experiment with the photographic process by using digital cameras, color photocopiers, and computer imaging.
In 1952, Savage had her first exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art in New York. In addition to the Museum of Modern Art, Savage's work is also in the collections of the Art Institute of Chicago, the Fogg Museum at Harvard University, the International Center of Photography in New York, and the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, Massachusetts.
Naomi Savage was married to the painter, sculptor, and architect, David Savage. Naomi Savage died in Princeton, New Jersey in 2007.
Man Ray (1890-1976) lived and worked in New York and Paris, France and was best known for his painting and photography.
Man Ray was born Emmanuel Radnitsky in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in 1890. His family later moved to Brooklyn, New York. During this period, the family changed their name to Ray and Emmanuel shortened his first name to Man, gradually using Man Ray as his combined single name. Man Ray attended Boys High School from 1904-1908 where he developed an interest in painting. After high school, he worked as a commercial artist and technical illustrator in New York City while attending classes at the Art Students League, Ferrer School, and National Academy of Design.
Influenced by European artists, whose Modernist works were being shown at the 1913 Armory Show and Alfred Stieglitz's "292" Gallery, and other such venues, Man Ray began to incorporate elements of Cubism in his paintings and drawings. In 1915, Man Ray met Marcel Duchamp (1887-1968) and they formed a lifelong friendship and professional partnership. That same year, the Dada group, founded by a Tristan Tzara and other artists in Zurich, Switzerland also took root in New York; Man Ray, Marcel Duchamp and Francis Picabia were credited for starting the New York Dada movement.
By 1921, Man Ray moved to Paris and became part of the circle that formed the Dada group. He photographed many of the Dada poets and writers, including Louis Aragon, André Breton, and Paul Eluard. Man Ray's work for André Breton established his reputation as a portrait photographer of artists, writers, and other prominent individuals, including George Antheil, Salvador Dalí, James Joyce, Sinclair Lewis, Gertrude Stein, and Virginia Woolf. In that same period, Man Ray pioneered the photographic process of rayographs (named after him) and he also participated in the first Surrealist exhibition at the Galerie Pierre.
Man Ray moved to Los Angeles, California in 1940. There he met New York City-born Juliet Browner (1910-1991), a trained dancer and professional artists' model. They married in 1946 in a double wedding ceremony with their friends Max Ernst and Dorothea Tanning. In 1951, Man Ray and Juliet Man Ray returned to live in the Montparnasse section of Paris.
In addition to an autobiography, Self-Portrait, published in 1963, Man Ray wrote a number of monographs and articles on photography that included Electricité, a portfolio of ten gravure prints of rayographs commissioned by the Paris electric company, Compagnie Parisenne de Distribution d'Electricité, 1931.
Man Ray received an honorary Master of Fine Arts degree from Freemont University, Los Angeles, 1948 and the gold medal for photography at the Venice Photo Biennale, 1962. In 1967, Man Ray received an award from the Philadelphia Arts Festival honoring its native son for his accomplishments.
Man Ray died in Paris in 1976. Juliet Man Ray survived her husband and continued to live in Paris until her death in 1991.
Painter, mural painter, illustrator; Philadelphia, Pa.
Art dealer; New York, N.Y.
Art historian, New York, N.Y. Died March 4, 1996. Schapiro met Gandy Brodie in 1946. He wrote a catalog introduction for a Brodie exhibition, 1967, eulogy for his memorial service, 1975, and a catalog introduction for a Forrest Bess retrospective at the Betty Parsons Gallery, 1962.
Rudolph Schaeffer (1886-1988), a proponent of the Arts and Crafts movement, aspired to unite technology, science, and lifestyle in order to live in harmony with nature. An individual with many talents and interests, he was best known for his work in the field of color study and as a teacher and the founder of the Rudolph Schaeffer School of Design in San Francisco.
Born on a farm in Clare, Michigan in 1886, Rudolph Schaeffer displayed musical and artistic talent from a young age. Although he initially wanted to become a professional musician, he began focusing more on art when his musical abilities were compromised by an improperly set broken wrist. Schaeffer received his first formal art training as a high school student and then attended the Thomas Normal Training School in Detroit, where he studied music, art, and design. He continued studying independently, developing interests in calligraphy and metal craft.
In 1907, Schaeffer taught manual training courses in the Columbus, Ohio, public schools. The following summer he traveled to Paris and London. While in London he saw an exhibition of Josef Hoffman's modern interiors that had a great impact on his own design ideas. He then returned to Michigan and taught in schools close to home. In 1909, Schaeffer attended a design course in Minneapolis taught by A. E. Batchelder, director of Throop Polytechnic Institute in Pasadena. Both Batchelder and his course were strong influences on Schaeffer, as was Ralph Johnot, a proponent of Arthur Wesley Dow's design principles. In 1910 Schaeffer joined the faculty of Throop Polytechnic Institute, where he remained for five years.
The U. S. Commission on Education selected Schaeffer to be part of a delegation of twenty-five American teachers sent to Munich for several months in 1914 to investigate the exemplary industrial design curriculum offered in their secondary schools. Schaeffer subsequently expected to begin teaching at the Manual Arts High School in Los Angeles at the start of the 1914 school year, but World War I erupted while he was in Germany and his return to the United States was delayed so long that another teacher had to be hired to fill his place.
In 1915 Schaeffer was a manual training instructor at the California College of Arts and Crafts (formerly the Hopkins School), and taught design and metal crafts at the University of California Berkeley. For a number of years afterwards, he did free lance design work, taught private classes, and ran a small summer school in his Piedmont studio. Schaeffer was a visiting professor at Stanford University in 1918 when he was drafted and sent to drafting and surveying courses by the Army. Between 1917 and 1924 Schaeffer was on the faculty of the California College of Arts and Crafts where he taught design, color, handicrafts, and interior design. During this period he developed a new approach to teaching color and design based on the prismatic color wheel.
During the early 1920s Schaeffer worked as a set designer and as Art Director of Greek Theatre at the University of California at Berkeley, Schaeffer began applying prismatic color theory to set and costume design. He also designed sets for productions in Detroit. In 1925, Schaeffer saw the Paris Exposition and researched interior and stage design while in France.
The Rudolph Schaeffer School of Design which, in its early days was called the Rudolph Schaeffer School of Rhythmo-Chromatic Design, opened on St. Anne Street in San Francisco's Chinatown in 1926. In 1951 the school then moved to Union Street on Telegraph Hill where it remained for nearly a decade. In 1960, the school purchased a former boys' school on Mariposa Street, Portero Hill. Rudolph Schaeffer lived in a small cottage built for him at the rear of the property where he designed and tended a remarkable "Peace Garden."
The Rudolph Schaeffer School of Design was best known for its courses in color and interior design. Schaeffer was the first person in the United States to teach prismatic color theory, is credited with being the first to use the term "interior design" rather than "interior decoration" and the first to incorporate the use of models into interior design coursework. In 1959 the school's courses were expanded from 2 to 3-year programs and a diploma was awarded. Former students include many successful interior designers, textile designers, furniture designers, industrial designers, commercial artists, color consultants, teachers, and master flower arrangers.
In addition to the interior design and color diploma courses, the school offered a summer session, classes for children, a brief lecture series for the general public, and a wide variety of classes including advertising art, architecture and design, art history, art in public schools, calligraphy, color design, color for television, color for weavers, color theory, design, drawing, environmental aesthetics, fashion design, fashion illustration, flower arrangement, industrial design, interior design, Notan, sculpture, space planning, textile design, and weaving. Always struggling financially and sometimes lacking adequate enrollment, the school nevertheless managed to stay open for nearly 60 years. In 1984, the Board of Directors voted to remove Schaeffer from the board and close the school. Two years earlier the board had forced Schaeffer to retire, appointed him Director Emeritus, and brought in a new director charged with making the institution financially solvent, reorganizing the curriculum, and working toward accreditation. Unable to separate himself from the school (though he had done so legally when it was incorporated in 1953), Schaeffer balked and refused to cooperate with plans for revitalizing the institution.
One of the aims of the Rudolph Schaeffer School of Design was to interpret Asian esthetic principles. To this end the East West Gallery was established at the school in 1950. A membership organization, it offered exhibitions, lectures, concerts, and other programs that encouraged cultural integration. Exhibitions alternated between East (Asian art and artifacts from Rudolph Schaeffer's collection or other sources) and West (student work or work of local artists illustrating the influence of the Asian esthetic on contemporary art and design). East West Gallery was a membership organization, the first space of its kind in San Francisco for Asian art and operated in each of the school's locations.
In addition to running the school Schaeffer was involved in many other activities. He wrote several articles about flower arrangement, color, and color theory that were published in popular magazines. In 1935, he published Flower Arrangement Folio I (said to be the first on the subject published in this country) and in 1942 edited and wrote the introduction to Sunset's Flower Arrangement Book by Nell True Welch. Over a period of many years, he worked on several monographs on color, design, and "rhythmo-chromatics." None were ever published.
A sought-after speaker on the subjects of color, interior design, flower arrangement, and myriad other art topics, Schaeffer frequently served as a juror for art exhibitions and flower shows. From the 1930s on, the San Francisco department store Emporium used his services as a color consultant, as did Dutch Boy paints, and numerous textile and clothing manufacturers. Builders also asked Schaeffer to select interior and exterior colors for suburban housing developments.
Schaeffer worked on planning and designing the decorative arts exhibition at the 1939-40 Golden Gate International Exposition. In 1943-44, he participated in the Red Cross's Arts and Skills program, using color therapy with shell-shocked soldiers in a psychiatric unit.
The Rudolph Schaeffer Collection of Asian Art began as a collection of ceramics, both historical and contemporary examples chosen for their form and color, which he used for flower arrangements and in set-ups for still life classes. It soon expanded to include color prints, paintings, screens, and other works of art and portions were exhibited frequently in the East West Gallery. Selections from this collection were exhibited in Kansas City in 1960 and at the Asian Art Museum of San Francisco in 1976.
The City of San Francisco declared June 26, 1986, Schaeffer's 100th birthday, "Rudolph Schaeffer Day" and it was observed with great fanfare. He died at home on March 5, 1988, a few months before his 102nd birthday.
Sculptor; Birmingham, Michigan. Was an assistant to Carl Milles. Nicknamed "Tex".
Painter, etcher; Newton, Conn.
Artist, filmmaker; La Veta, Colo.
Terry Schoonhoven (1945-2002) was a painter, printmaker, and muralist who worked in Los Angeles. During his career he painted over forty public murals, mostly in the Los Angeles area.
Schoonhoven received a Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Wisconsin. In 1967, Schoonhoven relocated to Los Angeles where studied fine art and taught lithography courses at the University of California, Los Angeles. In 1969, Schoonhoven co-founded the Los Angeles Fine Arts Squad with muralist, Victor Henderson. The Los Angeles Fine Arts Squad, which also included Jim Frazin and Leonard Koren, painted murals in public spaces in the Los Angeles area from 1969 to 1974.
Collector, curator; New York, N.Y. and Denver, Colo. Curator for the Anshutz Corporation art collection.
Painter, illustrator; Plymouth, Mass.
Sister of artist, Henry Schroeder; Watertown, Conn.
New York City, New York painter and author Claudia Schwalb has exhibited at Clocktower Gallery and the New Museum, and is currently a writer for whitehotmagazine.com.
After graduating from Pratt Institute, Schwalb apprenticed with painter Ron Gorchov and began writing for Cover Magazine and other art journals.
Susan Schwalb (1944- ) is a contemporary silverpoint artist and historian in Boston, Massachusetts and New York City, New York.
Stevenson Scott, of Scott & Fowles, was a dealer for British painter Augustus John.
Art museum curator; Oklahoma.
Robert Scull (1917-1986) was a prominent New York City and Connecticut collector of contemporary American art primarily during the 1960s.
Robert Scull was born in Manhattan's Lower East Side. He dropped out of high school during the Depression and did various jobs while also taking art courses. He later became a freelance illustrator and industrial designer. When his wife Ethel's father died, the couple inherited a successful taxi business which Scull expanded into the Super Operating Corporation with a fleet of 130 cabs.
Throughout the 1960s, Robert and Ethel Scull were avid art collectors who acquired contemporary American art works through dealers Richard Bellamy and Leo Castelli. Robert Scull's patronage also helped fund art dealer Richard Bellamy's Green Gallery in New York City for five years. Initially the Sculls focused on collecting American Abstract Expressionists and owned works by Willem de Kooning, Mark Rothko, and others. In 1965, the couple held their first auction and part of the profits helped establish the Robert and Ethel Scull Foundation, dedicated to financially assisting upcoming artists. The foundation commissioned environmental works from Michael Heizer and Walter de Maria and gave the artists stipends and even bought them food and supplies.
Around the mid-1960s, the Sculls also began collecting Pop Art and acquired the works of Jasper Johns, Robert Rauschenberg, James Rosenquist, and Andy Warhol. In 1973, the couple sold 50 works from their personal collection of Pop Art through a Sotheby's auction that yielded $2.2 million - record-breaking for sales of contemporary American art. The Sculls were criticized of social-climbing and profiteering by various people in the media and art world, including the artist Robert Rauschenberg.
In 1975, Robert Scull divorced Ethel and in 1978 he founded the Robert C. Scull Foundation which again assisted younger artists and arts organizations with a focus on contemporary art. Scull remarried and sold his taxi business sometime in the early 1980s, and moved to Warren, Connecticut. He died in 1986.
In 2010, the exhibition Robert and Ethel Scull: Portrait of a Collection was held at Acquavella Galleries in Manhattan.
Art dealer, writer, and teacher; Kansas City, Mo.
Doris Seidler (1912-2010) was a painter and printmaker in New York, N.Y. and friend of painter and sculptor Dorothy Dehner (1901-1994).
Don Seiler (1928-2000) was a sculptor and painter in Miami and Ona, Florida. Seiler was born in Miami Beach, Florida in 1928. He began his studies at the Art Students League in 1945 before taking a hiatus to enlist in the Army's 11th Airborn Division that same year. Following World War II he completed his studies at the Art Students League, and he returned to Miami to open his studio. Seiler died in 2000.
Jason Seley (1919-1983) was a sculptor and educator in New York, New York, known for creating sculptures out of chrome automobile bumpers.
From 1943-1945 Seley studied with Ossip Zadkine at the Art Students League in New York, and from 1947-1949 he pursued sculpture and taught in Haiti at Le Centre d'Art. In 1950, he received a Fulbright Scholarship to France. While abroad, he traveled and saw the famous Andrea del Verrocchio statue, "Colleoni," and from 1969-1971 he constructed a replica of the statue made from automobile bumpers.
Seley taught at Hofstra, New York University, and was the dean of the art school at Cornell until his death in 1983.
Art historian and writer.
Painter, educator, Cranbrook Academy; Bloomfield Hills and Birmingham, Michigan.
Lozowick was a lithographer; New York, N.Y.
Ben Shahn (1898-1969) was a painter, printmaker, and photographer from Roosevelt, N.J.
Exhibition designer, painter, curator; Washington, D.C.
Curator, Detroit Institute of Fine Arts; Detroit, Mich.
Art administrator; Southfield, Mich. Lipchitz was a sculptor. He died in 1973.
Sheeler was a painter, lithographer, photographer; Irvington-on-Hudson, N.Y.; Crowninshield was an editor at Vogue.
Arts and crafts center; Shelburne Falls, Mass.
The Sheldon Ross Gallery (1975-1993), Birmingham, Michigan, and later Sheldon Ross Fine Arts and Sheldon Ross Fine Arts LLC (1993-2000) were operated by Sheldon Ross until his death in 2000. The Sheldon Ross Gallery was the only gallery in the Detroit area to consistently show German Expressionist art, emphasizing graphics. However, the gallery and Ross are best known for their early and continued support of Romare Bearden's work. The exhibition history shows a balance between an interest in local artists and an effort to offer diverse artwork from broad based sources.
Lily Shore was a sculptor in New York City, New York. She participated in the Works Progress Administration, Federal Art Project.
Wife of sculptor Henry Merwin Shrady; Elmsford, N.Y.
Kenneth Callahan (1905-1986) was a painter, muralist, an art museum curator from Washington State. He was one fo the Northwest Mystics, an art movement from Seattle.
Howard Shuman is an associate news editor from Seattle, Washington.
Maurice Sieven was an abstract painter of the New York School, which also included Mark Rothko and Clyfford Still.
The Signa Gallery was founded in 1957 with the purpose of exhibiting the works of contemporary East Hampton, N.Y. artists. Alfonso Ossorio was one of the founding members and owners of the gallery.
Sculptor and instructor; New York, N.Y.
Marian Simpson (1899-1978) was a painter and mosaicist from Berkeley, Calif. Worked on the Federal Art Project of the Work Projects Administration.
Producer; Houston, Tex.
Art historian; New Haven, Conn. Trumbull was a New York City painter.
Arts club; New York, N.Y. A group of artists and writers who met informally in members' homes, 1820-1869. Many members played a significant role in the development of the National Academy of Design. The group was also known as the XXI, in honor of the 21 original founding members.
Jacqueline Skiles (1937- ) is a sculptor, printmaker, video artist, educator, and writer in New York City, New York. She has been active in New York feminist arts organizations and co-founded the Women's Interart Center.
Goldsmith, silversmith, jeweler; born 1930, died 1975; Philadelphia, Pa. Was active in World Craft Council, American Craftsmen Council and the Society of North American Goldsmiths.
Caleb Arnold Slade (1882-1961) was a painter in Truro, Massachusetts.
Painter, printmaker, illustrator, teacher; New York, N.Y. and Santa Fe, N.M. Member of "The Eight."
Painter; New York, N.Y.
Mary-Leigh Smart (1917-2017) was an art collector and consultant in York, Maine. Smart was the co-founder of the Barn Gallery and served as president until it merged with the Ogunquit Arts Collaborative.
James D. Smillie and the Smillie family members were active in New York City and the New England area as engravers and landscape painters during the nineteenth century. Members of the Smillie Family of artists include James Smillie (1807-1885), his sons James D. (1833-1909) and George Smillie (1854-1924), and George's wife Helen 'Nellie' Jacobs Smillie (1855-1926).
Born in Edinburgh, Scotland to David and Elizabeth Smillie, James Smillie immigrated to Quebec, Canada. James must have learned engraving from his father who worked with jewelry and silver. Upon his father's death in 1827, Smillie travelled to London and eventually to New York City, where he embarked on a career of creating engravings of paintings by other artists. By 1831, he had established his reputation primarily as an engraver of American landscape paintings. The portability of James Smillie's engravings helped to bring to the American public the grand landscapes by Albert Bierstadt, Thomas Cole, and Asher Durand. Smillie also worked for the American Banknote Company.
James Smillie married Catherine Van Valkenburg in 1832, and two of their sons, James David and George Henry also became artists. Elder son James D. assisted his father with engraving and later explored his own artistic talents in prints of the American landscape. Among his many subjects were the Sierra Nevada, Adirondack, Rocky, White, and Catskill Mountains. James D. Smillie was a founding member of the American Watercolor Society and served as its president from 1873 to 1879. Additionally, he was an early member of the New York Etching Club and the first meeting was held in his studio in 1877. James D. also wrote about art for various periodicals.
Like his older brother, George Henry Smillie learned engraving from his father, but turned to painting early in his career. By 1862, he had his own studio in New York City and exhibited with the National Academy of Design in 1864. George travelled throughout the United States sketching and painting landscapes inspired by Long Island, the Adirondack Mountains, the Rocky Mountains, and New England. Many of George's paintings of the American West were influenced by the Hudson River School. George married one of his brother's pupils, Helen Sheldon Jacobs.
Helen Jacobs Smillie, known as Nellie, was born in New York City to Samuel and Helen Jacobs. She received art instruction at Cooper Union and the National Academy of Design and was a pupil of James D. Smillie and J. O. Eaton. She married George Smillie in 1881, with whom she had three sons, Sheldon, Charles, and Gordon. Nellie was a member of the American Watercolor Society along with her husband and brother-in-law, and painted in the Hudson River School style.
Fort Worth, Texas painter Emily Guthrie Smith (1909-1986) was known for her portraits and still lifes.
In 1931 Smith studied under Robert Brackman at the Art Students League in New York City, and later with Mitchell Jamieson and Frederic Taubes. She pursued a career in painting portraits, landscapes, and still lifes in Fort Worth while also teaching workshops and classes in Texas, Nevada, and New Mexico.
Smith's work is represented in museums in Texas and elsewhere, as well as in private collections, and she was a member of multiple art associations.
Painter Houghton Cranford Smith (1887-1983) traveled extensively and painted throughout his life. He lived and studied art in France, South America, New York City and Provincetown. He had three children, Houghton Jr., Gerrit and Florence with his first wife, Elena Peralta. He held the position of Assistant Professor at the University of Kansas department of Drawing and Painting from 1921-1925.
Smith became widely recognized for his artwork in the 1940s. He married his second wife, Laura Gilbert Williams, in 1941. He has exhibited at many venues including the Passedoit Gallery, Corcoran Gallery, Richmond Museum, Columbia Art Museum, Walker Memorial Gallery, Art Institute of Kansas City and the Provincetown Art Association. For six consecutive years he was represented at Carnegie Institute's annual invitation exhibition.
Joseph Lindon Smith (1863-1950) of Boston, Massachusetts and Dublin, New Hampshire, was a painter primarily known for his ability to meticulously depict the murals and tomb sculpture of Egypt and other ancient cultures.
Joseph Lindon Smith was born on October 11, 1863 in Pawtucket, Rhode Island, the son of wholesale lumberman Henry Francis Smith and Emma Greenleaf Smith, a cousin of John Greenleaf Whittier.
From 1880 to 1882, Smith studied drawing and painting at the Art School of the Boston Museum of Fine Arts under Frederic Crowninshield and Otto Grundman. Accompanied by his friend, Frank Benson, he attended the Académie Julian and studied under William Bouguereau, Gustave Boulanger, and Jules Lefebvre from 1883 to 1885.
Upon his return to Boston, Smith established a studio as a portrait and landscape painter, attracting the attention of Denman Ross, a professor of History of Fine Arts at Harvard University. In the early 1890s Smith and Ross began to travel extensively and Smith became interested in ancient civilizations of Mexico, China, and Southeast Asia. In 1892, during a trip to Italy, Smith befriended Isabella Stewart Gardner, for whom he copied famous paintings, and occasionally acted as agent in purchasing art work.
Making his first trip to Egypt in 1898, Smith became enthralled with the art work of the ancient civilization and devoted himself to painting copies of the tomb sculptures and murals for educational uses in museums and other public institutions. In 1899, he married Corinna Haven Putnam and the couple spent much of their married life traveling between the United States and the Middle East, especially Egypt. From 1910 to 1939, Smith was a member of the Joint Expedition of the Boston Museum of Fine Arts and Harvard University directed by Dr. George A. Reisner.
For fifty years, Smith was also sought out as a writer and producer of plays and theatrical pageants, fetes, and masques primarily staged for various charitable fund-raising events.
Joseph Lindon Smith died on October 18, 1950 in Dublin, New Hampshire.
Painter; Woodstock, N.Y. Director of Woodstock School of Painting.
Rossbach: b. 1914; d. 2002. Westphal: b. 1919. Both are fiber artists, Berkeley, Calif.; he the weaver, and she the painter/printer.
Robert Smithson (1938-1973) was a sculptor, painter, author, and lecturer who was known as a pioneer of land and earthworks art, based primarily in New York City. Nancy Holt (1938-2014) was a land artist, conceptual artist, and filmmaker. Smithson and Holt were married from 1963 until Smithson's death in 1973.
Born in Passaic, New Jersey, Smithson expressed an early interest in art, enrolling in classes at the Brooklyn Museum School and the Art Student's League in New York while still attending high school. Smithson's early works were primarily paintings, drawings, and collages. In 1959, he exhibited his first solo show of paintings at the Artists' Gallery in New York and had his first solo international show in Rome with the Galleria George Lester in 1961.
During the early to mid-1960s, Smithson was perhaps better known as a writer and art critic, writing numerous essays and reviews for Arts Magazine and Artforum. He became affiliated with artists who were identified with the minimalist movement, such as Carl Andre, Donald Judd, Nancy Holt, Sol LeWitt, Robert Morris and others. In 1963, Smithson married sculptor and filmmaker Nancy Holt and a year later started to create his first sculptural works. In 1966, Smithson joined the Dwan Gallery, whose owner Virginia Dwan was an enthusiastic supporter of his work.
Smithson's interest in land art began in the late 1960s while exploring industrial and quarry sites and observing the movement of earth and rocks. This resulted in a series of sculptures called "non-sites" consisting of earth and rocks collected from a specific site and installed in gallery space, often combined with photographs, maps, mirrors, or found materials. In September 1968, Smithson published the essay "A Sedimentation of the Mind: Earth Projects" in Artforum that promoted the work of the first wave of land art artists. Soon thereafter, he began creating his own large scale land art and earthworks.
From 1967 to 1973, Smithson's productivity was constant as he wrote, lectured, and participated in several solo and group shows a year, both at home and abroad. He explored narrative art as essay in "The Monuments of Passaic" and fully committed to his idea of visiting sites and using them as the basis for creating non-sites, Non-Site, Pine Barrens, (1968); incorporated and documented the use of mirrors at sites in Mirror Displacement, Cayuga Salt Mine Project (1968-1969); and created his first site-specific works through liquid pours of mud, asphalt, and concrete, including Asphalt Rundown (1969). In 1969, he also completed his first earth pour at Kent State University with his project Partially Buried Woodshed. Later that year, he created the sculptural artwork for which he is best known, Spiral Jetty (1969) on the Great Salt Lake in Utah. This was the first of his pieces to require the acquisition of land rights and earthmoving equipment, and would be followed two years later by Broken Circle and Spiral Hill in 1971.
On July 20, 1973, while surveying sites in Texas for the proposed Amarillo Ramp, Smithson died in a plane crash at the age of 35. Despite his early death, Smithson's writings and artwork had a major impact on many contemporary artists.
Nancy Holt began her career as a photographer and video artist. Today, Holt is most widely known for her large-scale environmental works, Sun Tunnels and Dark Star Park. Holt has also made a number of films and videos since the late 1960s, including Mono Lake (1968), East Coast, West Coast (1969), and Swamp (1971) in collaboration with her late husband Robert Smithson. Points of View: Clocktower (1974) features conversations between Lucy Lippard and Richard Serra, Liza Bear and Klaus Kertess, Carl Andre and Ruth Kligman and Bruce Brice and Tina Girouard. In 1978, she produced a film about her seminal work Sun Tunnels.
Kenneth Snelson (1927-2016) was a New York City based artist best known for his sculptures incorporating the structural principle of tensegrity, or tensional integrity.
Born in Pendleton, Oregon, Snelson enrolled in college in his home state, studying painting, sculpture, and engineering. In the summers of 1948 and 1949, he attended Black Mountain College and studied with Buckminster Fuller and Joseph Albers. Snelson then attended the Chicago Institute of Design from 1949-1950, and moved to New York City in 1952.
For the next decade, Snelson worked as a cameraman for documentary films, often travelling internationally. In the early 1960s, Snelson began exhibiting his sculptures, and gained representation by Dwan Gallery. Snelson completed several commissions and installations of his sculptures over the next decade, including
Tower of Light, a contribution to the 1964 World's Fair, and Needle Tower, first erected in New York's Bryant Park in 1968. While continuing to work in sculpture throughout his career, Snelson began experimenting with panoramic and stereoscopic photography in the 1970s, and became a forerunner of computer art in the 1980s, using the Silicon Graphics computer to create digital sculptures.
In addition to Dwan Gallery, Snelson has shown with Sonnabend Gallery, Zabriskie Gallery, Marlborough Gallery, and the artist-run ConStruct Gallery.
Snelson has been the recipient of numerous awards and prizes including an Honorary Doctorate from the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, awards from the American Academy of Arts and Letters, and a prize for sculpture from the National Academy of Design.
Landscape painter; Philadelphia, Pa. Member of the Art Club of Philadelphia.
Sylvia Snowden (1942- ) is an African American abstract painter in Washington, D.C. known for her large mixed-media works that convey a sense of texture or the "feel of paint."
Snowden earned both a Bachelor and a Master of Fine Arts degree from Howard University. She also attended Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture in Maine and earned a certificate from le Grande Chaumière in Paris, France. She has served as an instructor, visiting lecturer, panelist, and artist-in-residence at universities, galleries, and art schools across the country and internationally. Her work has been included in exhibitions at the National Gallery of Art, the Corcoran Gallery of Art, the National Museum of Women in the Arts, Parish Gallery, and the California African American Museum; as well as in exhibitions in Chile, the Netherlands, Ethiopia, Australia, the Bahamas, France, Mexico, Italy, and Japan.
Professional society; founded 1915 as the Brooklyn Society of Etchers.
Cartoonist; New York, N.Y.
Ceramic sculptor; Claremont, Calif.; b. 1921.
Portrait painter; New York, N.Y. and Paris. Year of birth also cited as 1884.
George Sorrels (1944- ) is a painter in Dallas, Texas.
Ceramist; Texas.
Art society; Dallas, Texas. Founded 1964 as the North Texas Watercolor Society. Name changed in 1967.
Raphael Soyer (1899-1987) and his twin brother Moses (1899-1974) were born on December 25, 1899, in the Russian town Borisoglebsk. Their father Abraham was a scholar and Hebrew teacher who encouraged all of his children to sketch and paint. After the family was deported from Russia, they settled in the Bronx, New York, in 1912. Raphael and Moses briefly attended school, but at 16 they began working various jobs to help support their family. They also began taking free art classes at Cooper Union and later Raphael attended the National Academy of Design and the Art Students League where he studied with Guy Pene du Bois. He began to show his paintings in 1926 and in 1929 gallery owner Charles Daniel gave him his first one man show. Soyer became one of the leading realist painters and printmakers, often depicting Depression-era transients, Manhattan streetscapes, shoppers, and women at work. He also painted and sketched numerous self-portraits and portraits of fellow artists and cultural figures, many of whom were also his friends, including Allen Ginsberg, Chaim Gross, Edward Hopper, and Arshile Gorky.
 Beginning in the 1930s Soyer showed his work frequently at the Whitney Museum of American Art, Associated American Artists Galleries, National Collection of Fine Arts, and other national and international exhibitions. During the 1940s and 1950s he was a leading advocate of realism and spoke out against the abstract style that was dominating the New York art scene. In 1953 he co-founded Reality magazine.
Soyer joined the Forum Gallery in New York in the early 1960s and became good friends with his dealer Bella Fishko. Also during the 1960s he published three books, A Painter's Pilgrimage (1962), Homage to Thomas Eakins (1966), and Self-Revealment: a Memoir (1969), and had his first retrospective at the Whitney Museum in 1967.
Throughout his career Soyer also occasionally taught at art schools including the Art Students League and the New School. He also collaborated with his friend, writer Isaac Bashevis Singer, by illustrating several of Singer's books. Soyer and his wife Rebecca, whom he married in 1931, lived the rest of their lives in New York City, but often traveled to Europe. They had one daughter, Mary. Soyer's final book, Diary of an Artist, was published in 1977 and in 1979 he received the Gold Medal from the National Arts Club. He continued painting realist subjects until his death in 1987.
Woodcut artist, painter, and draftsman; New York, N.Y.
Lars Speyer (1925-2007) was a photographer in Palo Alto, California.
Diane Spodarek is a multimedia artist, poet, curator, musician, and editor from Detroit, Michigan and New York, New York. Along with Randy Delbake, Spodarek was the founder of Detroit Artists Monthly, a not-for profit arts publication, supported in part by the Michigan Foundation for the Arts, Michigan Council for the Arts, and the National Endowment for the Arts. In the 1970s Spodarek projected her persona "Dangerous Diane" in musical performances before moving to New York City.
Clay Edgar Spohn was born November 24, 1898, in San Francisco, to Lena (Schaefer) and John Henry Spohn. From 1919 to 1921, Spohn studied at the University of California at Berkeley, and from 1922 to 1924, he studied at the Art Students League in New York under Kenneth Hayes Miller, Boardman Robinson, George Luks and Guy Pene Du Bois. He also became acquainted with Alexander Calder at the Art Students League. In 1924, Spohn was employed as an assitant designer to muralist Ezra Winter. From 1926 to 1927 he studied in Paris at the Academie Modern, a school run by Fernand Leger and Orthon Fireze.
Returning to San Francisco in 1927, Spohn became an active member in the Bay Area art scene. The Treasury Department commissioned him, in 1938, to execute a mural for the Montebello, California post office, and in 1939, he completed another mural under the sponsorship of the WPA for Los Gatos Union High School in Los Gatos, California.
In 1942, the San Francisco Museum of Art mounted Spohn's solo exhibition "Fantastic War Machines and Guerragraphs", consisting of a series of drawings inspired by dreams of World War II. From 1945 until his resignation in 1950, Spohn was employed as instructor of drawing and painting at the California School of Fine Arts, where he befriended Clyfford Still and Mark Rothko. In 1949, at the California School, he organized a group exhibition entitled "The Museum of Unknown and Little Known Objects", in which Spohn's extraordinarily-constructed objects were a focal point.
Spohn moved to Taos, New Mexico in 1952, and participated in several national exhibitions. He was Visiting Lecturer at Mount Holyoke College, Massachusetts, in 1958, after which he moved to New York City where he executed a series of paintings under the sponsorship of the collector J. Patrick Lannan. From 1964 to 1969, he taught at the School of Visual Arts in New York.
After a two year move to Taos, Spohn returned to New York in 1971. In 1974, the Oakland Museum sponsored a retrospective of Spohn's work.
Clay Spohn died in New York City on December 19, 1977.
Alma de Bretteville Spreckels (1881-1968) was an art patron and socialite from San Francisco, California. Her early childhood was marked by near poverty but her fascination with art led her to studying at the Mark Hopkins Institute of Art (San Francisco Art Institute). Alma worked as an artist model for artists such as Robert Aitken, and she was purportedly the inspiration for Aitken's Dewey Monument in San Francisco.
Alma married the heir of a sugar fortune, Adolph B. Spreckels, with whom she had two children. Following Adolph's death in 1924, Spreckels focused her energies on art patronage and philanthropy, including the founding and sourcing of collections for the Palace of the Legion of Honor and the Maryhill Museum of Art.
Painter, educator; Austin, Texas.
Illustrator.
Educator, painter; Houston, Tex.
Painter, craftsman, and filmmaker; Houston, Tex.
Theodoros Stamos, Abstract Expressionist Painter; NY and Greece, 1922-1997; Diran Deckmejian, Painter, Photographer and former student of Stamos at the Art Students League.
Theodros Stamos, Abstract Expressionist Painter; NY and Lefkada Greece, 1922-1997; James DiMartino, student of Stamos at Art Students League.
Painter Theodoros Stamos (1922-1997) worked in New York and spent considerable time in Lefkada, Greece. A first generation Abstract Expressionist, Stamos developed as a color field painter, and had a long teaching career. His later years were encumbered by his role in the Mark Rothko Estate controversy.
Born to Greek immigrant parents in New York City, Stamos attended the prestigious Stuyvesant High School, leaving just three months before graduation to pursue a career in art. From 1941 to 1948 he operated a frame shop where he framed hundreds of Paul Klee paintings for Nierendorf Gallery and encountered customers such as Arshile Gorky and Fernand Léger, experiences that influenced the young artist.
Stamos' first solo exhibition, presented by Betty Parsons in 1943, brought the 20 year old painter to the attention of museums and private collectors. Throughout the 1940s Stamos painted and traveled extensively. By the end of the decade he had had three solo exhibitions and participated in group shows such as the 1945 Whitney Museum Biennial and "The Ideographic Picture," an important early Abstract Expressionist exhibition curated by Barnett Newman.
Through connections made at the American Artists' School Stamos became a notable artist among the New York avant garde during the early years of Abstract Expressionism. He was the youngest of the "Irascibles," a group of American artists who broke from the School of Paris to create a new approach to abstract painting.
In 1951, Stamos built a house in East Marion, New York on Long Island where he lived and worked. Here, he began to develop his color field technique and, influenced by his Greek heritage, continued to express interest in spiritualism and ancient Greek myths and philosophy. In 1958, Stamos' work was shown in a retrospective exhibition at the Corcoran Gallery of Art, Washington, DC, and in "The New American Painting," the Museum of Modern Art's traveling exhibition that introduced European audiences to Abstract Expressionism.
Stamos began his career as an educator in 1950 at Black Mountain College. Later, he taught at Columbia University and Brandeis University, and for more than 20 years was on the faculty of the Art Students League.
Following the death of his friend Mark Rothko, Stamos was involved in a highly publicized lawsuit involving his role as an executor of the estate. The trial ended unsuccessfully for Stamos and its adverse consequences impacted the late part of his career. In 1966, the Rothko children obtained permission to disinter their father's remains from the Stamos burial plot in East Marion, New York; with the assistance of Stamos' sister, Georgianna Savas, arrangements were made to bury Rothko at a cemetery in Valhalla, New York.
Traveling between homes in New York and Lefkada, Greece, Stamos continued to paint and teach late into his life. He died in Greece in 1997.
Painter; Seattle, Wash. b. 1927. d. 1980.
Painter; Detroit, Mich. Specialized in scenes of Indian life in the West.
Julian Stanczak (1928-2017) was a Polish-born American artist. He was born in Poland in 1928, and he emigrated to the United States in 1950, settling in the Cleveland, Ohio area. Th Op Art movement was named for his first major exhibition in 1964. Stanczak also taught at the Art Academy of Cincinnati and the Cleveland Institute of Art. Stanczak died in 2017.
Stavenitz was a painter, lithographer; Burrage was a painter, lithographer, both in New York, N.Y.
Sculptor, painter; Long Island City, N.Y.
Art historian; New York, N.Y. Henry Varnum Poor was a ceramist and painter from New City, N.Y.
Painter; New York, N.Y.
J.L. Steg (also known as "James Louis," "James L.," and "Jim") (1922-2001) was an artist, printmaker, and professor based in New Orleans, LA. Steg was also a WWII veteran and served in the tactical unit made up of soldiers with artistic skills known as the Ghost Army.
Earl Stendahl established Stendahl Art Galleries in 1911 in Los Angeles, California.
Earl Stendahl (1887-1966) came to Southern California from a small town in Wisconsin. He began showing young Los Angeles artists at his downtown restaurant, The Black Cat Café. He opened his gallery in The Ambassador Hotel on Wilshire Boulevard and organized shows focusing primarily on California Impressionists of the early twentieth century, including Edgar Payne, Guy Rose, William Wendt, Nicolai Fechin, and Joseph Kleitsch.
Stendahl Art Galleries also began to sell European and Latin American modern art. In 1939, Stendahl hosted one of only two non-museum exhibitions of Pablo Picasso's masterwork, Guernica, to benefit Spanish War orphans.
As early as 1935 Stendahl began promoting ancient artifacts from Mexico and Central America. Stendahl's first client for pre-Columbian art and artifacts was noted collector Walter Arensberg. Stendahl and the Arensburgs became friends and Stendahl helped the Arensburgs build one of the most significant collections in the U.S.
The galleries are currently owned by Ronald W. Dammann, Stendahl's grandson.
Painter, illustrator; New York, N.Y. Married Marie Sterner, an art dealer and owner of Marie Sterner Gallery. Divorced in 1922. Remarried Flora Lash.
Marie Sterner (1880-1953) was an art dealer in New York, New York. She was employed by Knoedler and Co. in 1912 before opening the Marie Sterner Gallery in the early 1920s. Sterner was instrumental in advancing the cause of American artists in the early 20th century. Her gallery worked with George Bellows, Marcel Duchamp, Guy Pène du Bois, Everett Shinn, Abbott Thayer, Hedda Sterne, John Sloan, William Zorach, and others. The gallery was eventually bought by Leonard Clayton who later formed the Clayton-Liberatore Gallery.
Museum director; Toledo, Ohio. Stevens was the first director of the Toledo Museum of Art.
Painter, New Orleans, Louisiana. Studied at the Cincinnati Art Academy and in New York with Jonas Lie and Van Dearing Perrine. Taught at Newcomb College Art Dept, New Orleans, 1921-1948. In the 1930s and 1940s, he developed an individualized style of non-objective and abstract painting. Throughout his career he experimented with pigments and manufacturing his own painting materials and was an influential teacher at Tulane.
Sculptor, educator; Houston, Tex.
Jack Stewart (1926-2005) was a painter, muralist, designer, educator and administrator in New York City. After developing an interest in graffiti in the 1970s, Stewart eventually wrote a dissertation on the subject, "Subway Graffiti: An Aesthetic Study of Graffiti on the Subway" (New York University, 1989) and was recognized as an expert on mass transit art.
Jack Stewart began studying art at the High Museum School in his hometown of Atlanta when he was 10 years old. At age 14, he began a 4 year apprenticeship with painter and sculptor Steffen Thomas. After serving in World War II, he enrolled at Yale University (B.F.A. 1951) as a sculpture student, but soon switched to the painting department where he studied with Josef Albers and Willem de Kooning. After graduation, Stewart began receiving mural commissions and enrolled in classes at Columbia University School of Architecture (1951-1953). His interest in architecture was tied to understanding how to work effectively with architects on mural projects. Later, Stewart developed an interest in graffiti which he pursued through graduate study at New York University (M.A., 1975 and Ph.D., 1989).
Stewart created murals in ceramic tile, mixed media and stained glass. In addition to mosaic murals, he designed tables with mosaic tops. As an outgrowth of his mosaic work, Stewart developed a technique for laminating stained glass onto plate glass that, by eliminating the need for lead, opened new design possibilities. Mural commissions included work for Hamilton Hotel in Chicago, Versailles Hotel in Miami Beach, Public School 28 in New York City, and several ocean liners. The most unusual mural, Raw Material commissioned by Cluett Peabody and Company, was composed of shirt labels embedded in acrylic.
Beginning in 1950 Stewart participated regularly in group shows and enjoyed solo exhibitions mainly in the New York City area. He also showed in Philadelphia, Georgia, Rhode Island, Mexico and Italy, and was included in exhibitions circulated by the American Federation of Arts.
Stewart taught at the college level for nearly thirty years, including: The New School (art and architecture, 1953-1958); Pratt Institute (interior architectural design, 1955-1960); The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art (painting, drawing, human anatomy, art history, 1960-1976; Art Department Chairman, 1971-1976); International Center of Mythymna, American Division, Lesbos, Greece (summer school, 1962-1965); Columbia University (M.F.A. program instructor, 1966-1976); and New York University (drawing, 1967-1975). In 1976 he was appointed Vice President and Provost of the Rhode Island School of Design.
Stewart was active in several professional organizations. He served as New York Artists Equity Association Secretary (1986-1987) and President (1987-1989); President of the National Society of Mural Painters (1996-2000); member of the advisory board of the Steffen Thomas Museum and Archives, Buckhead, GA (1997- 2000s); and President of the Fine Arts Federation of New York (2003-2004). The National Academy of Design elected Jack Stewart an Academician in 1995.
Jack Stewart and Margot Schwarzhaupt, an artist, were married in 1947; they had one son, Brandon. Painter and arts administrator, Regina Serniak, became Jack Stewart's wife in 1976.
Jack Stewart died in New York City in 2005.
Ary Stillman (1891-1967) was painter in New York, N.Y. He was born in Russia and emigrated to the United States as a child. He studied at the Art Institute of Chicago and the National Academy of Design. In 1921 he moved to Paris and participated in numerous exhibitions there over the next twelve years. Stillman returned to the United States in 1933. When the horrors of the Holocaust were revealed, Stillman shifted his focus to abstract works, and by 1948, his work was completely non-objective. Stillman died in 1967. The Stillman-Lack Foundation was founded after his death in accordance with his wishes.
Marguerite Stix (1907-1975) was a designer, and sculptor in Paris, France and New York City, New York, known for her later work with shells.
Born in Austria, Stix began her career in Paris designing jewelry for haute couture fashion houses. The Nazis imprisoned her at Gurs Concentration Camp and after her release in 1941, she settled in New York City. Stix's later career focused on shells and shell shaped jewelry which was sold at Cartier's to clients including Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis.
Painter, printmaker, ceramist, educator; San Antonio, Texas.
Painter, sculptor; New York and California. Born 1909 in Jamestown, R.I.
George Leslie Stout (1897-1978) was a museum director and prominent art conservator in Massachusetts. Stout was head of the conservation department at Harvard University's Fogg Art Museum, and director of the Worcester Art Museum and Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum, Massachusetts. During World War II, Stout served in the U.S. Army Monuments, Fine Art and Archives (MFAA) and played a leading role in the protection, location, and recovery of art work stolen by the Nazis.
Born in Winterset, Iowa in 1897, George Leslie Stout was the oldest of six children and attended Winterset High School and served in the U.S. army during World War I. Following the war, Stout studied at the State University of Iowa, received his B.A. in 1921, worked for a few years, and married Margaret Hayes in 1924 with whom he had two sons, Robert and Thomas. He attended Harvard graduate school in 1926 and graduated with a Master of Art in 1929. Stout began working as a lecturer and conservator at Harvard's Fogg Art Museum, later becoming the head of the conservation department in 1933, a position he held until 1947.
During World War II, Stout re-enlisted in the U.S. Navy, having served in the reserves since World War I. Stout was one of the first members of the Monuments, Fine Arts & Archives (MFAA) Section of the U.S. army. He was appointed to the MFAA Section for the Twelfth Army Group in 1944 and was one of the first Monuments Men to arrive at Normandy, France. He was later appointed Lieutenant Commander of the MFAA Section. Many of the Monuments Men's stolen art recovery achievements were directed by George Leslie Stout. Stout supervised the inventory and removal of looted art hidden by the Nazis in the salt mines of Merkers and Ransbach in Thuringia, Germany. Stout oversaw the organization, packing, and shipping of several thousand objects including paintings by Rubens and Goya, along with precious antiquities. At the Altaussee salt mines in Austria, he was in charge of the unit that recovered a large cache of stolen artwork that included Michelangelo's Madonna and Child and the Ghent Altarpiece or The Adoration of the Mystic Lamb by Hubert and Jan van Eyck. There, he also worked very closely with fellow Monuments Men Thomas Carr Howe. Stout went on to locate and recover looted artwork in other repositories in Germany, France, and the Netherlands. He maintained a relationship with many of his fellow Monuments Men after the war.
Stout left Europe in the latter half of 1945, then went to Japan where he served as the Chief of the Arts and Monuments Division at Headquarters of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, Tokyo until the middle of 1946. After the war Stout received the Bronze Star and the Army Commendation Medal for his army service and work as a Monuments Man in Europe.
Stout resumed his position as the head of the conservation department at the Fogg Art Museum when he returned to America. In 1947 he became the director of the Worcester Art Museum in Massachusetts where he stayed until 1955, when he became the director of the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston where he worked until his retirement in 1970. Stout wrote numerous articles about art conservation and wrote two books: Painting Materials, A Short Encyclopaedia (1942), co-authored with Harvard colleage R. J. Gettens, and Care of Pictures (1948). Stout died in Menlo Park, California in 1978 and was widely recognized as a distinguished art conservator.
Sculptor, instructor; Dallas, Tex.
Paul Strand (1890-1976) was a photographer in New York, N.Y.
Folk art collector and dealer, painter; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Discovered and helped popularize many folk or self-taught artists, including Justin McCarthy.
Director of the Farm Security Administration Historical Section; Washington, D.C. Under Stryker the Photographic project of the FSA documented the drought, poverty and despair of rural and urban America during the Depression.
Stuart was an engraver, painter, known for his portraits. He was active in Boston as an engraver from 1857.
Art patron; New York, N.Y.
Painters; New York, N.Y. Adam and Tade are sons of Jan Styka.
Susanne Suba (1913-2012) was an illustrator and painter active Brooklyn, New York and Chicago, Illinois. She was a frequent illustrator for The New Yorker and many books.
Thom Sudato is a painter active in Chicago, Illinois.
Portrait painter; Philadelphia, Pa.
Publisher (New York, N.Y.) of the magazine The Survey, which appeared as two separate periodicals from 1933-1948, Survey Graphic and Survey Midmontly. Leading journal of the social work profession and social reform activities. Paul Underwood Kellogg was editor 1912-1952; his brother Arthur was managing editor.
Susan Cummins Gallery was a contemporary art gallery established in 1984 in Mill Valley, California. The gallery was most well-known for its exhibition of American jewelry and other studio craft objects. In the 1990s, the gallery moved into a larger space and began exhibiting paintings and drawings as well. Most exhibitions held at the gallery were solo shows rotated monthly. Over the years, major artists shown at Cummins Gallery include Joyce Scott, June Schwarcz, Bruce Metcalf, Jamie Bennett, Dominic Di Mare, and Bob Ebendorf. The gallery closed in 2002. Group shows include Faceted Glass (1984)--the gallery's first show, Outcasts: Jewelry from Junk (1992), The Weight of Gold: Invitational Group Show (1993), and Jewelry as an Object of Installation (2001).
Susan Cummins was born December 27, 1946, in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Growing up, her family moved around to several states but mostly settled in the west coast. After high school, Cummins went on an American Field Service trip to Europe, and it was during her trip that she decided to study art in college. She attended Scripps College, studied under Arthur Stevens, and wrote her thesis on Rodin's relationship to dance. After college, Cummins moved to Washington, D.C. and struggled to find work in her field. She briefly volunteered at the National Museum of American Art and had worked for the Black Man's Development Center and a government lab before moving back to the west coast. She moved to Mill Valley and began running The Fireworks, a ceramics shop owned by a former college friend, Beth Changstrom. In 1983, Cummins and Changstrom took over the Horizon Gallery's space in Mill Valley and founded Beth Changstrom Ceramics and Susan Cummins Gallery. Throughout her tenure running the gallery, Cummins was close friends with some of her artists, especially Bruce Metcalf, Dominic Di Mare, and Bob Ebendorf. Cummins helped found Art Jewelry Forum in 1997 to promote and educate the collecting public about jewelry. She has served on the boards of the American Craft Council (2018 Honorary Fellow) and the Headlands Center for the Arts; she is the current director of the Rotasa Foundation.
Filmmaker; Newton, Mass.
Frederick A. Sweet (b. 1903) was an art historian and museum administrator; Chicago, Illinois. Sweet curated the exhibition and wrote the catalog Sargent, Whistler and Mary Cassatt, held at the Art Institute of Chicago and the Metropolitan Museum of Art, 1954; James McNeill Whistler : paintings, pastels, watercolors, drawings, etchings, lithographs held at the Art Institute of Chicago and the Munson-Williams-Proctor Institute, 1968; and wrote the Cassatt biography, Miss Mary Cassatt, impressionist from Pennsylvania (1966).
Trudy Sween (1929-2017) was known primarily as a painter, but was also a sculptor and a published poet based in Houston, Texas.
Sween studied at the University of Houston and often exhibited her works in Texas. She was a founder of the Cultural Arts Council of Houston and served on its executive board for many years.
Army General, Civil Engineer; New York City.
Maltby Sykes (1911-1992) was a painter, draftsman, lithographer, engraver, and teacher from Auburn, Alabama. Full name William Maltby Sykes. Sykes apprenticed with Diego Rivera in 1936, and later studied with George C. Miller, John Sloan and Fernand Leger. He was a combat artist in World War II and became a Professor in Art at Auburn University in 1954. He has exhibited at the American Color Print Society, the American Institute of Graphic Artists, and the Pennsylvania Academy.
Jorge Tacla (1958-) is a Chilean born painter who lives in and primarily works in New York, New York.
Tacla attended the Escuela de Bellas Artes, Universidad de Chile and moved to New York in 1981. Throughout his career, Tacla has been awarded numerous grants and fellowships including the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation Fellowship in 1988. His paintings often present half-imaginary landscapes, such as a disintegrating urban site or a pristine desert. Tacla's work has been included in numerous group and solo exhibitions at galleries and museums around the world.
African American painter Henry Ossawa Tanner (1859-1937) was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania to Benjamin Tucker Tanner, a college-educated teacher and minister, and Sarah Miller Tanner, who was formerly enslaved. Benjamin Tanner was very active in the African Methodist Episcopal (A. M. E.) Church, eventually becoming a bishop, and the family often moved while Henry was a small child. They settled in Philadelphia, and as a teenager, Tanner spent his free time painting, drawing, and visiting art galleries. In 1880 he enrolled in the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, where he studied under several master art instructors, including Thomas Eakins who greatly influenced his early work.
Tanner moved to Atlanta, Georgia in 1888 and opened a photography gallery which was not very successful. After teaching briefly at Clark College, a sponsorship from his patrons Bishop and Mrs. Joseph Crane Hartzell allowed him to travel to Europe in 1891 and study at the Académie Julian in Paris. There he was taught by Jean Joseph Benjamin-Constant and Jean-Paul Laurens. After returning to Philadelphia in late 1892, he painted many works depicting African American subjects, including The Banjo Lesson (1893). He returned to Paris in 1894. There, his work began to receive favorable reviews, particularly at the Paris Solon for his biblical scenes. Tanner began to specialize in painting bible imagery and scenes, and traveled to Palestine in 1897 and 1898 and later to Morocco to study costumes, customs, and cityscapes.
 In 1899 Tanner married Jessie Macauley Olssen, a young woman from San Francisco living in Paris. Also around this time reproductions of his artwork were published in a few popular American magazines, and Tanner began to receive praise for his artwork in the United States. Tanner, however, objected to being labeled as "Negro artist". Despite their misgivings, the couple moved back to the United States for a short time. Their son, Jesee Ossawa Tanner was born in 1903. One year later Tanner and his wife returned to Paris and made it their lifelong permanent home, only occasionally visiting the United States for exhibitions of his work. They also maintained a leisure farm in Trepied, Normandy.
Tanner continued to exhibit his work in Paris, develop his painting technique and imagery, and travel, becoming friends with many artists throughout Europe. In 1913 he became president of the Societe Artistique de Picardie and during World War I he worked for the American Red Cross in France. In 1923 he was made a chevalier of the Legion of Honor in France for his work as an artist. Tanner became affiliated with Grand Central Art Galleries and other dealers in the United States and had great success there during the 1920s. When Jessie Tanner died in 1925 Henry was grief stricken and remained in poor health for the remainder of his life. He continued to paint occasionally until his death in 1937.
Henry Ossawa Tanner (1859-1937) was an African American painter born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania who spent much of his life in Paris, France. His work often depicts biblical scenes. Tanner trained at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts under Thomas Eakins. In 1891, Tanner traveled to Europe and settled in Paris, where he remained for the rest of his life.
John Taylor (1897-1983) painter, etcher, lithographer; Shady, N.Y. Taylor was married to painter Andrée Ruellan, b. 1905; d. 2006;, painter; Shady, New York. When the couple lived with Ruellan's mother, Lucette, in Shady, N.Y., much of the correspondence addresses all three as "the trio", as all three lived together until Lucette's death.
Virginia Vanderbilt Teague was a historian in New York, N.Y. and Vermont and was the wife of sculptor and painter R. Lewis Teague. The collection consists of material related to the 1913 Armory Show, also known as the International Exhibition of Modern Art. The exhibition opened at the 69th Street Regiment, in New York City, in February 1913, and traveled to Chicago's Art Institute of Chicago, in March, and Boston's Copley Hall, in April.
Sabina Teichman (1905-1983) was a painter and sculptor in New York City, New York. Often, she used bold colors in her paintings. Her work, The Prophet is part of the collection of The Vatican, presented to Pope Paul VI.
Painter, sculptor; New York, N.Y.
Abbott Handerson Thayer (1849-1921) was born in Boston to Dr. William Henry Thayer and Ellen Handerson Thayer. After his birth his family moved to Woodstock, Vermont, and in 1855 settled in Keene, New Hampshire. As a child Thayer developed a love of nature that was encouraged by his close family, which included three sisters, Ellen, Margaret, and Susan. At the age of fifteen he was sent to the Chauncy Hall School in Boston, and while there he met Henry D. Morse, an amateur animal painter. Under Morse's instruction Abbott developed his skill in painting birds and other wildlife and began painting animal portraits on commission. In 1867 he moved to Brooklyn, New York and attended the Brooklyn Academy of Design where he studied under J. B. Whittaker for two years. In 1868 he began showing his work at the National Academy of Design and enrolled there in 1870, studying under Lemuel Wilmarth. He met many emerging artists during this period, including his future first wife, Kate Bloede and his close friend, Daniel Chester French. Thayer became part of progressive art circles, showing his work at the newly formed Society of American Artists, while continuing to develop his skill as an animal and landscape painter.
Thayer and Kate Bloede were married in 1875. They moved to Paris and he studied at the École des Beaux-Arts, first under Henri Lehmann, and then with Jean-Léon Gérome. While in Europe he befriended fellow artists Everton Sainsbury, Thomas Millie Dow, George de Forest Brush, and Dwight Tryon. His daughter Mary was born in 1876 and his son William Henry in 1878. The family returned to America in 1879 and settled in his parent's home in Brooklyn, where he changed his focus to portraits. After the tragic deaths of William Henry in 1880 and of their second son, Ralph Waldo, in 1881, the family led a migratory existence living in various parts of New England. In 1881 while living in Nantucket they met Emmeline (Emma) Beach (1850-1924) who would become close friends with Abbott and Kate and would be known as "Addie" to the family. In 1883 their son Gerald was born and in 1886 their daughter Gladys was born. In 1887 Thayer settled his family in Keene, New Hampshire, and began teaching a small group of students. Around this time his wife began suffering from severe depression and went to a sanatorium in 1888. She died in 1891 and that fall Thayer married Emma Beach who had helped to care for him and his children during his wife's illness.
Despite family tragedies, Thayer became a leader in the New York art world during the 1880s and 1890s. He was a successful portraitist and painted allegorical figures of angels, women, and children, which were popular among collectors of this period, including his patrons Charles Lang Freer and John Gellatly. He often used his children as models, especially his eldest daughter, Mary.
In the late 1880s one of Thayer's students, Mary Amory Greene, built a house and studio for the Thayer family on her land in Dublin, New Hampshire, and in 1901 the family settled there permanently. Many of Thayer's artist friends lived nearby, such as Richard Meryman and George de Forest Brush, and the Thayer family frequently entertained prominent visitors such as Edward Waldo Emerson and Samuel Clemens. Abbott Thayer taught painting to his children, and Gerald and Gladys both became artists and art educators. Gladys married David Reasoner, a student of Abbott Thayer who later became his assistant. Other students of Thayer included Rockwell Kent, Ben Foster, Barry Faulkner, and Louis Agassiz Fuertes.
Greatly influenced by transcendentalism and the spirituality of nature, Thayer again began to paint landscapes, especially of nearby Mount Monadnock. He was very interested in the study of protective coloration in the wild, and was an advocate for nature conservation and bird sanctuaries. He published the book Concealing Coloration in the Animal Kingdom in 1909 with his son Gerald, but encountered much resistance to his theories. Thayer also wrote about how his camouflage theories could be applied to military warships and uniforms. These theories failed to gain widespread government interest and after suffering from nervous exhaustion, he spent the rest of his life painting landscapes at his home in Dublin, until his death in 1921.
Alden Thompson was an art historian and writer. His sister, Ruth Thompson Grandin, is a painter from Putney, Vermont.
Daniel Varney Thompson (1902-1980) was an art conservator and historian, professor, engineer, and writer. A noted authority on medieval painting, Varney lived and worked primarily in the Boston area and London.
Daniel Varney Thompson was born in New Jersey in 1902. He was the son of Grace Randall Thompson and Daniel Varney Thompson, Sr., a classics teacher at the Lawrenceville School and later headmaster of Boston Latin School. American composer Randall Thompson was his older brother. Following family tradition, Thompson attended Harvard, earning the A.B. in 1922 and A.M. in 1926, focusing his attention on fine arts, physical chemistry, and literature. Daniel V. Thompson stopped using the designation Jr. after his father's death in 1932.
Between 1922 and 1925 Thompson was employed in the Fogg Museum's laboratory devoted to analyzing art materials for the purposes of detecting forgeries, preserving works of art, and devising methods to aid working artists. During this period, Thompson went to Italy as a Sheldon Fellow in Fine Arts, to learn medieval fresco painting techniques from Edward W. Forbes, Director of the Fogg Museum. He also had an opportunity to study medieval and Renaissance painting techniques with Inicio Federico Joni, and while in Italy began life-long friendships with the Forbes family and Bernard Berenson. Thompson served as a technical advisor to the 1924-1925 Second Harvard China Expedition; he traveled to China by way of India, where he studied wall paintings in caves at Ajanta and Elura and researched newly discovered scrolls.
Daniel Varney Thompson was on the faculty of Yale from 1926-1933, where he taught art history, and tempera painting courses, and laid the foundation for the Department of Fine Arts when Yale became a university in 1932. During his time at Yale, Thompson married Cecile [Cecily] de Luze Simonds.
When The American Council of Learned Societies awarded Thompson a research fellowship for the academic year 1933/34, he returned to Europe and surveyed major libraries for materials concerning the history of technology of the arts. Thompson was then invited to be Professor of the History of Technology at the University of London. He was on the faculty from 1934-1946, and also served as research and technical advisor, developing a laboratory at the Courtauld Institute for analysis of art materials.
During World War II, the Courtauld's laboratory - which had facilities for emission, absorption, and x-ray spectrography - was offered to the Ministry of Aircraft Production. To avoid compromising the University's tax-free status, Thompson formed and served as managing director of Daniel Varney Limited, a private company which leased the premises and equipment. From 1940 to 1945, the company was operated in the name of the Courtauld Institute, employing 200 people in tool making, gauge making, fine mechanisms, and development and production of optics instruments. After the war, Daniel Varney Limited shifted its interests to high vacuum diffusion pumps, gas manipulation, and glassblowing.
Upon returning to the United States in 1947, Thompson settled in the Boston area, becoming a technical consultant. He worked on projects for E-Z Mills, Inc., Sylvania Eloctronics, Comstock & Wescott, Inc., and other corporations. He was chief engineer of Jarrell-Ash Co., 1953-1955, redesigning optical instruments, spectrography, and schlieren systems. Between 1955 and 1957, Thompson served as Vice President of Swett & Sibley, involved with the design and development of optical instruments, scanning spectrometers, and densistometers. He then moved to Avco Corporation, where for the next decade he was a Senior Staff Consultant working on optical design in rocket instrumentation. Thompson retired from his engineering career in 1967.
Daniel V. Thompson wrote and published extensively. Art-related writings include translations and a monograph published by Yale University Press, and numerous articles and reviews. Translations are: Cennino Cennini's Il Libro dell'Arte (3 volumes: Text of Il Libro dell'Arte, 1932; The Craftsman's Handbook, 1933; and The Practice of Tempera Painting, 1936), and An Anonymous Fourteenth Century Treatise ( De arte illuminadi) (with his student George Heard Hamilton), 1936. A monograph, The Materials and Techniques of Medieval Painting (foreword by Bernard Berenson) appeared in 1936.
Most of Thompson's scientific and technical writings are unpublished and relate to projects for which he served as a consulting engineer.
Soon after retiring, Thompson began a new career that he continued for the remainder of his life. A serious cook and long-time gardener, he began writing about these topics, producing weekly columns that were published by newspapers from Maine to Chicago and contributing articles to Gourmet, Horticulture, and similar periodicals. Thompson also lectured to garden clubs and judged garden and flower competitions.
Daniel Varney Thompson died on January 4, 1980, following an automobile accident in Malaga, Spain.
Domenica Thompson served as editor of Chicago Midwest Art and Midwestern Art Reviews and Chicago Gallery Guide. She was active in the Chicago, Illinois arts scene.
Furniture designer; draughtsman for Index of American Design; New Mexico.
One of the earliest modern art galleries in New York, Tibor de Nagy Gallery was founded in 1950 by Tibor de Nagy and John Bernard Myers. Initially the gallery featured the work of second generation Abstract Expressionists and continues to operate today with a focus on the Post War second generation New York School.
John B. Myers served as the gallery's first director and De Nagy was the business manager while continuing to work in the banking business. Early on, the gallery introduced and promoted second generation Abstract Expressionists such as Grace Hartigan and Alfred Leslie. The gallery quickly earned a reputation for promoting the work of emerging artists, including Carl Andre, Helen Frankenthaler, Jane Freilicher, Red Grooms, Fairfield Porter, and Larry Rivers, among others, giving many of them their first solo shows.
Later the gallery gained a reputation as a space for collaborative artistic ventures and organized exhibitions that combined visual imagery and poetry by several New York School poets. The gallery also published books by poets John Ashbery, Frank O'Hara, and James Schuyler, as well as a poetry newsletter entitled Semi-Colon.
In 1973 de Nagy teamed with Marvin Watson to open the Watson/deNagy Gallery in Houston, which closed in 1983. Tibor de Nagy retired from banking in 1970 and continued running the gallery until he died in 1993. The Tibor de Nagy gallery continues operating today at 724 Fifth Avenue under the direction of Andrew Arnot and Eric Brown. It also works with a number of estates, including those of Joe Brainard, Rudy Burckhardt, Donald Evans, and Jess.
Painter, sculptor, critic, educator; San Antonio, Texas.
Architect; Chicago, Illinois. John Rollin Tilton was Tilton's father. He was a painter and settled in Rome.
Painter, printmaker; San Antonio, Tex.
Painter, mural painter, lecturer; Larchmont, N.Y. Born 1914. Died 2005.
Tobey was a painter; Seattle, Wash. Corle was at one time a New York City stage actress and wife of novelist, Edwin Corle. McCandless sold the painting to the University of Arizona Museum, Tucson.
Abraham Joel Tobias (1913-1996) was a painter, muralist, and educator in New York City. He was a pioneer in the use of shaped canvases.
A native of Rochester, New York, Tobias came to New York City to study at the Cooper Union School of Art, 1930-1931, and at the Art Students League, 1930-1933. He worked for the Federal Arts Project,1938-1940, where he continued his training as a muralist, working with artist and technicians.
During World War II, Tobias served in the armed forces. He was an art director with the Intelligence Division, Army Air Force, and in 1945 was employed as a graphic designer for the Office of Strategic Services (OSS). Tobias was artist-in-residence and served as instructor in painting and drawing at Adelphia College, Garden City, Long Island, 1947-1957. He also was was a visiting lecturer at various schools including Howard University, Brooklyn Museum Art School, Pratt Institute Art School, as well as at colleges in Illinois and Kansas.
Tobias completed over ten mural commissions for governmental agencies and educational institutions, including: United States Post Office, Clarendon, Arkansas; Howard University, Washington, D.C.; James Madison High School, Brooklyn, New York; Beth Israel Hospital, New York City; Domestic Relations Court Building, Brooklyn, New York; and Adelphi College, Garden City, New York. In 1962, Tobias began The History of Science mural for the lobby of the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn; it was never completed.
Tobias experimented with diverse materials such as terrazzo and mosaic for mural application. He also broke new ground with the use of ethyl silicate paint as a permanent medium for outdoor murals. In 1958, he patented striated plastic, a pliable material used to achieve an effect similar to stained glass.
He participated in many solo and group exhibitions. In 1935, Tobias presented his shaped canvas painting in the "Sculptural Painting" exhibition at Delphic Studios in New York City. In 1987, Tobias was recognized for his earlier pioneering work with a retrospective exhibition, "Abraham Joel Tobias: Sculptural Paintings" at The Jane Voorhees Zimmerli Art Museum of Rutgers University. Other exhibitions included: "Plastics U.S.A.," the United States Information Service's exhibition in Moscow (1961); "New York City WPA Art," Parsons School of Design, New York City (1977); "For a Permanent Public Art," Tweed Gallery, New York City (1989); and "The Technological Muse," Katonah Museum of Art, New York (1991).
Tobias's professional memberships included the Architectural League of New York, National Society of Mural Painters, and New York Artists Equity Association. He served on the Board of Directors for the Fine Arts Federation of New York from 1988-1996. He won the Architectural League Award in 1952. The Art Commission of the City of New York recognized Tobias, posthumously, for distinguished service to public art.
Abraham Joel Tobias married Carolyn Pratt in 1949; the couple had one daughter. Abraham Joel Tobias died in Rego Park, New York, in 1996 at the age of 82.
Sculptor, Mill Valley, California. Tolerton was born on January 11, 1907 in Toledo, Ohio, and died on June 20, 2000 in Mill Valley, California. Tolerton moved as a child to California where he later studied art at Stanford University and at the California School of Fine Arts in San Francisco. During his early career he fabricated ornamental ironwork (railings, brackets, furniture), working with Berkeley Metal Arts and the Allied Arts Guild in Menlo Park. This interest was reinforced by a 1929-30 trip to France, Spain, Italy, and Germany for the purpose of studying the ancient art of ironwork. He From 1932 to 1942 he made wheel-thrown pottery before turning in the late 1940s to the monumental iron (and other metal) sculpture for which he became best known. In 1956 he had a solo show at the M.H. de Young Memorial Museum. He also created the first major outdoor sculpture, a bronze fountain at Crown Zellerbach Plaza, in downtown San Francisco following World War II. At one time a resident of Big Sur, he spent the latter part of his life working in a studio in Mill Valley.
George Tooker (1920-2011) was a painter based in Hartland, Vermont and New York, New York. Tooker was born in Brooklyn, New York on August 5, 1920 to George Clair Tooker and Angela Montejo Roura. He graduated from preparatory school at Phillips Academy, Andover in 1938 and received a Bachelor of Arts in English from Harvard University in 1942. Tooker studied drawing and painting under Reginald Marsh, Kenneth Hayes Miller, and Harry Sternberg at the Art Students' League from circa 1944 to 1945.
Tooker became acquainted with American painter Paul Cadmus while studying at the Art Students' League. Cadmus introduced Tooker to a circle of artists and writers living and working in New York and Europe in the mid to late 1940s that included George Platt Lynes, Jared and Margaret French, Monroe Wheeler, Glenway Westcott, and Lincoln and Fidelma Kirstein. He lived and worked with his partner and fellow artist William Christopher in New York City and later Hartland, VT.
In 1953, Tooker was commissioned by writer and philanthropist Lincoln Kirstein to design the sets and costumes for The Saint of Bleecker Street, an opera by Gian-Carlo Menotti. In 1966, the Wasemquia Charitable Trust sponsored the Vestris Prize for Choreography in cooperation with the Boston Ballet Company and Tooker was invited by trustee Henry H. Crapo to participate on the Committee of Judges for the Vestris Prize. In 1968, NASA commissioned Tooker to produce drawings and one painting documenting the development of spacecraft at the Goddard Space Flight Center located in Greenbelt, Maryland.
Tooker's paintings are found in numerous art museums and galleries including the Whitney Museum of Art, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Museum of Modern Art, DC Moore Gallery, Robert Isaacson Gallery, and the Venice Biennale. In 1968, Tooker's paintings were featured in the art magazine, Avant-Garde.
Three letters from Alice B. Chittenden, a painter and teacher in San Francisco. Chittenden sends her condolences on the death of Baldwin's mother, news of family and friends, and decries the teaching administration which is "radical...all for creative work...I am sorry for my pupils who really wanted to learn to draw." She tells of teaching at the art school for 43 years and her dismay with all the "crazy abstract stuff."
A photograph of Balink in his studio; a photograph of Balink with his classmates at the Royal Academy in Amsterdam, Holland, 1909; 4 greeting cards printed from original drawings and an etching by Balink; a photocopy of a letter, 1915, to Balink from the Metropolitan Museum of Art about a possible job copying ancient works of art in the Museum's Department of Egyptian Art; photocopies of newspaper and magazine clippings, 1917-1967, about Balink's etchings and paintings of the Southwest; and photocopies of exhibition catalogs, 1915-1983.
The papers of Diogenes Ballester measure 6.0 linear feet, and date from 1973 to 2020. The papers document his career as an artist, educator, and writer through correspondence with family and friends, and various museums and galleries; notes, drafts of articles, drafts of lecture and presentation transcripts, and other writings; inventories, price lists, ledger books, and other personal business records; resumes, artist statements, exhibition files, and other professional activity files; clippings, articles, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and other printed material; and photographs and slides of Ballester, some of his family and friends, and of some of his artwork.
Correspondence includes letters from his wife, Maria Boncher, artist Marshall Weber, cover letters, letter of recommendation, and letters with various museums and galleries. Also included is a booklet of letters and drawings from students at Project YES, an arts program for children.
Writings include drafts for articles written by Ballester, articles written by Shifra Goldman, drafts for a book on Ballester and drafts lectures and presentations given by Ballester. Also included are a number of notepads and miscellaneous notes.
Personal business records consist of inventories and price lists, invoices, two ledger books, copies of checks and receipts, and proposals and blueprints for the establishment of an artist-in-residency program in Puerto Rico.
Professional activity files consist of exhibitions that Ballester participated in at various biennials in graphic arts around the world. Some of these locations include San Juan, Puerto Rico; Krakow, Poland; and Taipei. Among the materials on biennials are a number of files pertaining to the San Juan Biennial on Printmaking from 1986 to 2010. These files contain lecture transcripts, clippings, articles by Ballester and others, draft exhibition catalogs, and notes. Also included are some exhibition files for exhibitions held at museums in the United States, proposals for exhibitions, artist statements, resumes, and binders documenting his professional career. The binders contain resumes, artist statements and narratives, some exhibition announcements and press releases, and photographs of artwork. Also included are some sketches by Ballester.
Printed material consists of articles on and written by Ballester, clippings, newsletters, exhibition announcements, exhibition catalogs, press releases, and posters.
Photographic material consists of photographs of Ballester, photographs of Ballester with friends and family, photographs of an exhibition, and photographs and slides of artwork.
Correspondence includes letters from his wife, Maria Boncher, artist Marshall Weber, cover letters, letter of recommendation, and letters with various museums and galleries. Also included is a booklet of letters and drawings from students at Project YES, an arts program for children.
Writings include drafts for articles written by Ballester, articles written by Shifra Goldman, drafts for a book on Ballester and drafts lecures and presentations given by Ballester. Also included are a number of notepads and miscellaneous notes.
Versions in both English and Spanish present.
Disc is labeled, "LASA 25 Slides Presentation"
Personal business records consist of inventories and price lists, invoices, two ledger books, copies of checks and receipts, and proposals and blueprints for the establishment of an artist-in-residency program in Puerto Rico.
Professional activity files consist of exhibitions that Ballester participated in at various biennials in graphic arts around the world. Some of these locations include San Juan, Puerto Rico, Krakow, Poland, and Taipei. Among the materials on biennials are a number of files pertaining to the San Juan Biennial on Printmaking from 1986 to 2010. These files contain lecture transcripts, clippings, articles by Ballester and others, draft exhibition catalogs, and notes. Also included are some exhibition files for exhibitions held at museums in the United States, proposals for exhibitions, artist statements, resumes, and binders documenting his professional career. The binders contain resumes, artist statements and narratives, some exhibition announcements and press releases, and photographs of artwork. Also included are some sketches by Ballester.
Disk is unlabeled.
Printed material consists of articles on and written by Ballester, clippings, newsletters, exhibition announcements, exhibition catalogs, press releases, and posters.
Photographic material consists of photographs of Ballester, photographs of Ballester with friends and family, photographs of an exhibition, and photographs and slides of artwork.
Three letters, one is illustrated, from George Luks to Ballin, and a note from Luks to Ballin on the back of an announcement for an exhibition for the works of the Luks Class at the Anderson Galleries ("Run up and see this"); five illustrated postcards (four Christmas and one general) and two illustrated notes George's son, Will, to Ballin; a pencil sketch by George Luks inscribed to Ballin, undated; and a photograph of George Luks' portrait of Ballin, 1932.
The Lee Balter collection of Tallix, Inc. records measure 43.3 linear feet and date from circa 1970-2007. The records document the Tallix art foundry's work on projects with numerous artists, galleries and institutions. Artists represented in the collection include David Ackerman, Marisol, Roy Lichtenstein, David Smith, Isamu Noguchi, Beverly Pepper, Juan Miro, Don Lippincott, Richard Pousette-Dart, Nancy Graves, John Safer, Anthony Caro, Joel Shapiro and many more. Artist and project files contain photographs, financial records, correspondence, notes, audio visual material, and printed material. A portion of the collection contains electronic media.
Seven linoleum block prints of animals made by Baranceanu for the Works Progress Administration, Fine Art Project, San Diego Curriculum Project begun in 1936.
Biographical data; awards and citations; personal and business correspondence with: Inslee Hopper, consultant to the Chief of the Section of Fine Arts; Richard T. Feller, Clerk of Works for the Washington Cathedral; and Kennedy, Kennedy, Keefe and Carney (formerly Maginnis and Walsh and Kennedy), architects for the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception in Washington, D.C. and the Cathedral of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary in Baltimore, Md. concerning his work at those churches; correspondence regarding his work at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine and the St. Thomas' Church, NYC, and others; sketches, drawings, etchings and studies for reliefs and sculpture; clippings; and photographs of Barbarossa and his sculpture.
ADDITION: Biographical data; awards and citations; military records; correspondence, mostly business but including a few letters from friends and fellow sculptors such as Richard Barthe, Walker Hancock, Thomas Lo Medico, and Heinz Warneke; writings; sketches, drawings, and etchings by Barbarossa and others; studies for relief and figural sculpture; photographs and slides of Barbarossa, others, and of his sculpture, notably of his commissioned sculpture for the New York World's Fair (1939), for several Treasury Dept. art projects in the 1930s, and for his post-WWII commissions for churches, primarily in Baltimore, Md., Washington, D.C. and NYC, and Catholic schools in Tarrytown and Yonkers, NY.
2 resumes, 1970 and 1974; catalog introduction by William Zorach to Bardin's exhibition at the New York Public Library, 1960; clippings regarding her exhibition at Artists' House, Jerusalem, 1973; and photographs of her sculptures.
Twenty-two letters and postcards; photographs of Barile, of his family, his art classes and his work; 40 sketches and a sketchbook; a 1965 calendar with notes; catalogs; clippings; teaching brochures; and 30 newsletters by Barile "La Voix de L'Artiste," and "A Collection of Art News and Views."
Biographical data; correspondence, including seven letters from John Sloan, one from Reginald Marsh and one from Leo Lentelli; notes, personal documents; original prints; sketchbooks; scrapbooks; photographs of Barile and of him with his art classes, and photographs of his paintings; photographs of the 1927 and 1929 Kit Kat Ball; reproductions of his cartoons and paintings; exhibition catalogs and announcements; publicity material; and clippings.
Biographical notes; exhibition catalogues, announcements, reviews, etc.; lists of paintings by Barnes; photographs of paintings and family members; writings by Barnes; correspondence, much of it relating to research done on Barnes by his daughter, Mildred Barnes Kruhm; biography of Barnes's wife, Cora Battenfelder Barnes, compiled by his daughter, Marjorie Barnes Thompson.
Six clippings and two catalogues detailing an exhibition of Barnes's paintings at the Marshall Gallery, Roswell Museum and Art Gallery, Roswell, New Mexico, November 5 through December 4, 1977; and manuscripts by Barnes of a diary, ca. 1918, and "Artists I Have Known," ca. 1918.
Material collected by Barnett regarding Mark Tobey including: photographs of Tobey with friends Takazaki and Horiuci, ca. 1950, Tobey's Seattle, Washington studio taken after his death, summer 1976, Tobey with his attorney Arthur Barnett, Tobey's Basel, Switzerland home, and Tobey's funeral; copies made from 16 mm microfilm of two Tobey journals, 1958; and Barnett's handwritten descriptions of the photographs and journals, 1979.
A brief biographical account, 1967; an essay by Baron entitled, "American Art Under Attack", 1949; exhibition catalogs and publications relating to the ACA Galleries; photographs, undated and 1950-1960, of Baron and his family; and letters of condolence sent to Baron's wife, Ella, upon Baron's death, 1961.
Correspondence, art works, writings, photographs, printed material, and business records document Barrett's sculpture and life.
REEL 138: Letters between Barrett and his colleagues discuss his art works and writings (1943-1964). Art works consist of 157 sketches and an annotated sketchbook (1942-1962). Writings include poems and autobiographical notes and articles (1930-1939). Photographs show Barrett and his works (1944-1951). Printed material consists of a press release, clippings (1961-1963), 10 exhibition catalogs (1944-1962), a bulletin, and 2 programs (1953-1955). Business records include meeting notes (1951), a contract for Barrett's "Sculpture Continuum" (1963), lists of expenses (1959-1962), receipts (1962-1963), and income tax returns (1953-1959).
REEL 3837: Fourteen pages from an annotated sketchbook.
REEL 4391: A resume (1969); photographs of Robert Moses, President of the New York World's Fair, and Jeff Jaffe, President of the Chunky Corporation, with Barrett and a model of his "Chunky Square Continuum" for the World's Fair (1963); a brochure on Barrett's sculpture continuum works; and his book, MYSELF EMERGING (1980).
A charcoal drawing of a male model done when Barton was a student.
The microfilmed John Russell Bartlet papers contain 31 watercolors and drawings by Henry Cheever Pratt; as well as 139 drawings, 2 sketchbooks, and 1 drawing book by John Russell Bartlett, all of which were created between 1850 and 1853 when Bartlett and Pratt were on expedition in Texas, New Mexico, California, Sonora, and Chihuahua. Also included are 8 drawings in pencil and Chinese white drawn from Bartlett sketches by the French artist, Oscar Bessau, who was working in Washington, D.C. in 1853; 13 watercolors drawn from Bartlett sketches by Seth Eastman in 1853 when Eastman was stationed at the Office of Indian Affairs in Washington, D.C.; and 6 watercolors by Harrison Eastman, who was working in San Francisco, California during a period when John Russell Bartlett was also in that area.
Five watercolors and drawings by unidentified artists; a pen and ink sketch of horses; and a self-portrait by Bartlett are also included.
The papers of fiber artist James Bassler measure 3 linear feet and date from 1969 to 2003. The papers consist of biographical material, correspondence, personal business records, writings, professional files, printed material, and five scrapbooks. Much of the material was assembled by Bassler as supporting documentation for tenure at UCLA.
Biographical materials include resumes and writings about Bassler's father and siblings. Correspondence concerns exhibitions, lectures, projects, and Bassler's teaching career. Correspondents include Louise Allrich, Norman Cherry, Mildred Constantine, Kris Dey, Dominic Di Mare, Helen Drutt, Lillian Elliott, Betty Freudenheim, Teresa Huang, Eiko Ishioka, Ritzi and Peter Jacobi, Wojciech Jaskolka, Mi Koon Kim, Sherley Koteen, Gerhardt Knodel, Jack Lenor Larsen, Eudorah Moore, Gertrude Parker, Martin Peavy, Laurel J. Reuter, Ed Rossbach, and Paul Smith, among others. Among Bassler's professional files are items concerning his participation with the United States Department of State Art in Embassies program, his service as an expert witness for a legal case, and his teaching career at UCLA. One videocassette is a student's senior project. Five mixed media scrapbooks contain written statements, photographs of works of art, and printed material.
Biographical materials include resumes and writings about Bassler's father and siblings.
Correspondence concerns exhibitions, lectures, projects, and Bassler's teaching career. Correspondents include Louise Allrich, Norman Cherry, Mildred Constantine, Kris Dey, Dominic Di Mare, Helen Drutt, Lillian Elliott, Betty Freudenheim, Teresa Huang, Eiko Ishioka, Ritzi and Peter Jacobi, Wojciech Jaskolka, Mi Koon Kim, Sherley Koteen, Gerhardt Knodel, Jack Lenor Larsen, Eudorah Moore, Gertrude Parker, Martin Peavy, Laurel J. Reuter, Ed Rossbach, and Paul Smith, among others. Additional correspondence may be found in professional files.
Among Bassler's professional files are items concerning his participation with the United States Department of State Art in Embassies program, his service as an expert witness for a legal case, and his teaching and administrative career at UCLA. One videocassette is a student's senior project and runs about 25 minutes in length.
Printed materials include clippings, newsletters, and exhibition announcements and catalogs. Five mixed media scrapbooks contain written statements, photographs of works of art, and printed material. Also found are scattered photographs of works of art and a sketch of a working plan for a 14" by 14" hanging.
Children's book of short verses about a little girl and her doll. Each poem is accompanied by a full-page illustration.
A video composed of five segments on Bauer and his body cast sculptures and shows. The segments are titled on the cassette label: Exhibition tape; "Body Casts" Solo @ Gregory Ghent; 1st Photo Session, Model- Albert; Making of Mold for CRUCIFORM V; and Making of Mold for CRUCIFORM IV. Also included is a duplicate video cassette "The Cave of Making". "Exhibition tape" is footage from the television program "Eye on Hollywood," and is filmed at the Ankrum Gallery in Los Angeles during Bauer's exhibition [1984], and shows a body cast on the program's host. "'Body Casts', Solo" is of Bauer's one man show at the Gregory Ghent Gallery in San Francisco [1984]. The remainder are of Bauer preparing and working on molds in his studio, ca. 1984.
The papers of Harold Baumbach measure 0.4 linear feet and date from 1934 to 1976. The papers document Baumbach's career as a painter and printmaker through correspondence, including with Adolph Gottlieb, slides and transparencies of Baumbach and some of his artwork, clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and various art newsletters edited by Maud Kemper Riley.
Material consists of general correspondence and correspondence with Adolph Gottlieb and Edgar [Levy]; printed material including exhibition catalogs, announcements, and clippings; and slides and transparencies of Baumbach and some of his artwork. Also included are issues of Art Front, 1934-1936, and issues of publications edited by Maud Kemper Riley including Limited Edition, 1945, MKR's Art Weekly, 1946, and MKR's Art Outlook, 1946-1947.
The records of the B. C. Holland Gallery measure 2.1 linear feet and date from 1942-1991 (bulk dates 1959-1965). Founded in Chicago, Illinois by Bud C. Holland and Noah Goldowsky, the collection documents over 98 artists associated with the gallery. Documentation includes invoices, correspondence between artists and gallery owners, price lists, exhibition catalogues and print materials, magazine and newspaper clippings, photographs, and slides, and some business records of the gallery.
Artists of note include: Harry Bouras, Paul Burlin, Mary Callery, Elaine de Kooning, Willem de Kooning, Jean Dubuffet, Edward Dugmore, Roland Ginzel (including 2 ink drawings), Michael Goldberg, Robert Goodnough, Joseph Goto, Philip Guston, Julius Hatofsky, Richard Hunt (includes 18 files and a landscape plan of John J. Madden Clinic sculpture installation), Lester Johnson, Ellen Lanyon, Alfred Leslie, Jacques Lipchitz, Michael Loew, Knox Martin, Dennis Oppenheim, Stephen Pace, Milton Resnick, Larry Rivers, Aaron Siskind, George Spaventa, Saul Steinberg, Jack Tworkov, and Estaban Vicente.
Found here are invoices, correspondence between artists and gallery owners, price lists, exhibition catalogues and exhibition print materials, magazine and newspaper clippings, black and white and color photographs, slides, negatives, 2 pieces of artwork, and 1 landscape plan. There are two files containing letters of authenticity and invoices for Gandaharan sculptures, a style of Buddhist art from the Kushan period dating between 1st and 5th centuries A.D., and Haniwa, a style of Japanese sculpture made using the wasumi technique in the Kofun period between 4th and 6th centuries A.D. Correspondence during 1957 and 1961 may include Noah Goldowsky, co-owner of the Holland-Goldowsky Gallery until 1961. Also note that some artist files may contain a single item.
(Oversized material housed in OV 3)
Found here are a few invoices, correspondence, and notes.
Beard writes about himself and his work, apparently in response to a series of questions previously posed by Levy.
Correspondence, photographs, clippings, catalogues, business records, and files on his collection of works of art. These files include clippings, photographs, biographical information about the artists, research summaries on the subjects of the works of art, and correspondence with relatives, agents, or the artists themselves, about the works of art.
Artists' files include: Edwin A. Abbey, Harold Altman, Thomas Anshutz, George Ault, Mordechi Avniel, John Avery, Milton Avery, Peggy Bacon, Charles Bargue, John Noble Barlow, Paul W. Bartlett, Gifford Beal, George Bellows, Ben Benn, Thomas H. Benton, Saul Berman, James H. Beard, Albert Bierstadt, Sarah Bernhardt (contains a photograph of Bernhardt taken by Napoleon Sarony, 1891), Ralph Blakelock, Oscar Bluemner, Frank M. Boggs, Louis Bouché, Charles Burchfield, Arthur B. Carles, Guiseppe Castiglione, Thomas Chambers, J. Wells Champney, Christine (Brush) Chaplin, William M. Chase, Alson Clark, Samuel Clarkson, Timothy Cole, Thomas Cole, Vincent Colyer, Bruce Crane, Jasper Cropsey, Charles C. Curran, J. Frank Currier,
Elliot Daingerfield, F.O.C. Darley, Randall Davey, Andrew Dasburg, Arthur B. Davies, Charles Deas, Carl de'Albert, Charles Demuth, Edwin Deming, Thomas Dewing, N. Diaz, Edwin Dickinson, Preston Dickinson, Francis Dixon, Thomas Doughty, Arthur G. Dove, Guy Pène du Bois, Frank Duveneck, "The Eight," Louis M. Eilshemius, Albert Looking Elk (Albert Martinez), William Etty, Abel Faivre, John M. Falconer, Lyonel Feininger, Alvan Fisher, Gilbert Gaul, Samuel W. Gaylor, Wood Gaylor, Q. T. Galwey, Lillian Genth, William Glackens, Arthur C. Goodwin, Florence Wolf Gotthold, Samuel Halpert, James Hamilton,
William Harnett, George W. Harris, George O. Hart, James & William Hart, Marsden Hartley, Childe Hassam, Charles Hawthorne, Martin J. Heade, Robert Henri, E. L. Henry, Eugene Higgins, Winslow Homer, Peter Hopkins, Edward Hopper, William M. Hunt, William F. Hulk, George Inness, LeRoy Ireland, David Johnson, Eastman Johnson, Bernard Karfiol, John Kensett, Walt Kuhn, F. S. Kurz, Harry Lachman, John La Farge, Ernest Lawson, Hayley Lever, Ossip Linde,Louis Lozowick, George Luks, Elmer MacRae, Norwood MacGilvary, Dodge Macknight, John Marin, Reginald Marsh, Homer D. Martin, Jan Matulka, A. H. Maurer,Henry Lee McFee, Richard Emil Miller, William R. Miller, Thomas Moran, Louis Moeller, Gabriel Morcillo, James H. Moser, William S. Mount, J. Francis Murphy,
Jerome Myers, Robert L. Newman, John Noble, George Of, Georgia O'Keeffe, Majorie Organ, Jules Pascin, Louis M. Potter, Edward Potthast, Charles Prendergast, Maurice Prendergast, Levi W. Prentice, James Preston, F. Newlin Price, William Prior, Henry W. Ranger, Odilon Redon, T. Addison Richards, Theo Robinson, Orlando Rouland, A. P. Ryder, John S. Sargent, Charles Sarka, Charles Sheeler, Everett Shinn (includes a typescript of a play by Shinn), Florence S. Shinn, Walter Shirlaw, John Sloan, Edith Smith (Hertz), William L. Sonntag, Raphael Soyer, Eugene Speicher, Niles Spencer, Carl Sprinchorn, John Wells Stancliff, Joseph Stella, Maurice Sterne, Thomas Stevens, Thomas Sully,
Arthur F. Tait, John H. Twachtman, Allen Tucker, Alfred W. Thompson, Henry O. Tanner, Wilhelm Trubner, Elihu Vedder, Antoine Vollon, Horatio Walker, William Aiken Walker, Abraham Walkowitz, Max Weber, J. Alden Weir, Robert Weir, Benjamin West, Irving R. Wiles, James M. Whistler, Stanford White, Worthington Whittredge, Charles S. Woodbury, Robert S. Woodward, Carl Wuermer, Alexander H. Wyant, Mahonri Young, Marguerite Zorach, and William Zorach.
The papers of painter and critic Rosalind Bengelsdorf Browne measure 3.2 linear feet and date from the 1910s to 1980. The papers document Browne's career through biographical materials including sketches and photographs, correspondence with friends, artists, and institutions, writings, professional files, and printed material.
Biographical material includes a transcript of an interview with Susan C. Larsen. Correspondence includes letters from Ethel Baziotes, Romare Bearden, Sid Gotcliffe, and Philip Evergood. Writings include sound recordings of a monologue by Browne concerning her husband Byron Browne and Sam Kootz. Professional files may include correspondence, printed material, writings, and agreements relating to Browne's various roles as a critic, an artist, and an educator. Of note are files on the American Abstract Artists organization and the WPA Federal Art Project.
Found are biographical materials as well as scattered artworks, an interview, personal business records, and photographs. Artworks consist of unsigned pencil and pastel sketches and sketchbooks. Biographical materials include address books, resumes, passports, ID and membership cards to various New York City institutions, report cards and school projects, and a wallet containing Mexican coins, circa 1910. Personal business records consist of rental agreements, tenant organization material, vehicle records, and receipts.
Browne's correspondence is with family, friends, institutions, and artists. Found are letters from Ethel Baziotes, Romare Bearden, Philip Evergood, Nancy Galantiere, Sid Gotcliffe, Lee Hall, Jacob Kainen, Lucien Lareau, and Aline Saarinen. Also found are letters from graduate students taught by Browne in the 1970s. Some greeting and holiday cards contain original artworks by friends.
Series contains writings by Browne including typed drafts of works, some with annotations, and an illustrated mockup for an unpublished work entitled Is Santa Claus Real?. Sound recordings are of a monologue by Browne about her husband Byron Browne and artist Sam Kootz, dating from 1971.
Professional files form the bulk of the collection and encompass Browne's career as a painter, educator, critic and writer.
A file for American Abstract Artists comments on Browne's affiliation as a founding member of the organization and includes correspondence, printed material, and drafts of questionnaires, some of which are photocopies. Works Progress Administration material contains scattered information on Browne's work on murals at the Central Nurses Home.
Also found are files for schools at which Browne taught, most notably for the New School for Social Research; exhibition files; and files for publications such as the Encyclopedia Judaica, The New York Star, and Pictures on Exhibit. Of note is a file for Francis V. O'Connor's compiled work on the New Deal Art Projects in which Browne is included.
Printed materials include clippings and exhibition materials concerning Browne's career as an artist, critic, and writer. Also found is scattered exhibition material on her husband, Byron Browne. Travel souvenirs include maps and brochures.
Letters, photographs, writings and notes.
REEL D10: A memoir of Francis Martin Drexel, said to have been written for his children, ca. 1830. He writes of his youth, going from town to town in Italy, Switzerland, and Austria, and of Paris, to find work painting coaches, portraits, etc. He details his emigration to the U.S. leaving Amsterdam on the JOHN OF BALTIMORE, with much about the contract between Captain Richards and passengers, reneging, dishonesty of fellow passenger Mr. Bayer, and his early years in Philadelphia.
UNMICROFILMED: Research material mainly on 18th c. French artists, including correspondence, notes, transcripts, articles, photographs, etc., ca. 1948-1963, about or arising from Benisovich's research into the lives and work of Jacques Louis David, Jean Etienne Liotard (incl. typescript of a biography), Frans Post, Nicolas Antoine Taunay (incl. typescript of biography and catalogue), Adolph Ulrich Wertmuller, Francisco de Miranda, Francis Martin Drexel, et al. His correspondence was mostly with editors, scholars, and museum and library staff. Some letters related to sales of art, others to personal matters.
The papers of modernist painter Ben Benn measure 6.3 linear feet and date from 1906 through 1977, with the bulk of the papers dating from circa 1920 - circa 1970. The collection includes correspondence between Benn and his wife Velida de Benn and letters from Oscar Bluemner, Max Weber, Joseph Stella, and other artists. Also found are biographical materials, sketches, sketchbooks, diaries, scrapbooks, personal business records, clippings, photographs, exhibition catalogs, art journals, and auction catalogs. Some of the printed material is quite rare.
The bulk of the collection consists of correspondence files dating from 1906 through 1993, and includes personal, professional, and family correspondence of Ben Benn and wife Velida Benn, as well as personal correspondence between the Benn's. Much of the professional correspondence relates to exhibitions and other projects and is with museums, galleries, and art associations, including the Whitney Museum of American Art, The Artists' Gallery, and the College Art Association. Additional correspondence contains letters from friends and colleagues including Alfred Barr, Oscar Bluemner, Rita Benton, Holger Cahill, Juliana Force, Sidney Geist, Kaj Klitgaard, Audrey McMahon, Julio Osma, Harry Salpeter, Hugh Stix, Hudson D. Walker, and Marguerite Zorach, among others. Letters exchanged between Ben Benn and Velida Benn primarily relate to Benn's activities in Woodstock, N.Y., Gloucester, Ma., and St. Augustine, Fla., places he visited during the early part of his career. Many of Benn's letters are illustrated. Velida Benn's correspondence includes letters from her brother Bernard Lopez, William M. Fisher (Metropolitan Museum of Art), Bessie Beatty, Rita Benton, Sidney Geist, and Julio Osma. Also found are brief notes from Joseph Stella, Max Weber, and Marsden Hartley.
Diaries (1943-1977) contain entries by Velida Benn and reflect her activities and personal observations; also found are numerous references to Benn's exhibitions and projects. Three scrapbooks (1915-1972) document Benn's exhibitions and include copies of correspondence, announcements, checklists, price lists, and clippings; many of the items are annotated. Artwork (1937-1974) consists of sketchbooks and various loose sketches of portraits, figures, and still lifes; also included are fashion sketches by Velida Benn.
Printed material (1905-1991, bulk 1930s-1970s) includes exhibition announcements and catalogs, newspaper and magazine clippings, printed programs, reproductions, and monographs. Of particular interest are Artists' and Writers' Chap Books (1933-1935) that include the work of Ben and Velida Benn. Photographs (1920-1969) contain images of works of art, of Ben Benn, individually and with Velida, and exhibition installation shots.
Two obituary notices of Ben Benn's death including the piece that ran in the New York Times, (1983). Also found is a copy of the entry on Benn published in Who's Who in American Art, 15th Edition.
This series contains the personal and professional correspondence of Ben Benn and personal correspondence of Velida Benn (neé Gertrude Lopez). Found are several letters from Willard Huntington Wright (the Forum Exhibition Committee) and Juliana Force (Whitney Museum of Art). Also included is correspondence from additional museums and galleries, including the Artists' Gallery, Brooklyn Museum, and the Metropolitan Museum of Art, among others. Personal correspondence includes numerous letters, postcards, and greeting cards from colleagues and friends who formed a part of the Benns' social circle, including those from Oscar Bluemner, Sidney Geist, and Kaj Klitgaard, William Baziotes, and a postcard from Marsden Hartley.
Chronological professional and personal letters received by Ben Benn relating to exhibitions, affiliations with various artists' groups, and relationships with other artists and friends. Found are letters from Alfred Barr, Holger Cahill, Juliana Force, Sidney Geist, Kaj Klitgaard, Rowan and Irene LeCompte, Audrey McMahon, Elie and Viola Nadelman, Samuel Rosenblum, Harry Salpeter, and Hugh Stix, and various art galleries and museums, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Newark Museum, and the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, and the Walker Art Center Also found is correspondence from containing letters from Hudson Walker and others, relating to Benn's one-man exhibition; included are price lists of Benn's paintings.
See Appendix for list of notable correspondents from Series 2.1. and 2.3.
Correspondence exchanged between Ben and Velida when Benn traveled to Woodstock, N.Y., Gloucester, Ma., and St. Augustine, Fla., as well as from Benn's studio in New York. Benn's letters focus on personal matters, various activities, and projects, and include references to colleagues and to the paintings he sold to various individuals. Many of the letters are illustrated. Velida Benn's letters relate to her activities and the New York art scene.
This subseries, arranged chronologically, consists of letters received by Velida Benn from family, friends, and colleagues. Included are letters from Bessie Beatty, Rita Benton, William M. Fisher, Sidney Geist, Bernard Lopez, and Julio Osma. Also found are brief notes from Joseph Stella, Max Weber, and Marsden Hartley. Letters from Juliana Haskell relate to a Ben Benn one-man exhibition at Columbia University in 1928-1929. Included are numerous letters from publishers, theatrical agents, and producers to whom Velida Benn submitted her plays and poems.
Please see Appendix B for list of notable correspondents.
This subseries is arranged chronologically and includes postcards to Ben and Velida Benn and Velida Benn from friends and colleagues. Postcards are from Hilton Kramer, Belle Krasne, Harry Salpeter, and others.
This subseries is arranged chronologically and includes holiday greeting cards received by Ben and Velida Benn from friends and colleagues.
This series houses Velida Benn's diaries, notebook and notes, and Benn and Velida's scrapbooks. The diaries include references to Benn's activities, exhibitions and other projects, and the Benn family. Of interest are entries relating to Hilton Kramer, Seymour Hacker, and Hudson Walker, among others. The notebook and notes contain miscellaneous lists by Velida Benn. Three scrapbooks contain copies of correspondence, clippings, price lists, announcements, and parts of exhibition catalogs documenting Benn's museum and gallery shows from 1915 -1972. The arrangement of the scrapbooks has been retained in their original order.
Scattered personal business records that include miscellaneous receipts, a check register, a bank statement, an eviction notice, a file pertaining to the conservatorship of Ben Benn's estate, address books and lists, and lists and records of paintings purchased or held on consignment.
Sketches and sketchbooks by Ben Benn, mostly in pencil, and fashion sketches, in pencil, by Velida Benn. Also found is an etching inscribed to Ben Benn from Marie G. Williams, 1924.
This series houses announcements, exhibition catalogs, newspaper and magazine clippings, news bulletins, programs, reproductions and miscellaneous printed materials. Exhibition catalogs include Ben Benn: Painter, The Jewish Museum, 1965 and Ben Benn, An American Painter, 1884-1983, Hammer Galleries, 1983. Magazine clippings include numerous reviews of Benn's work by Sidney Geist, Hilton Kramer, and Sidney Tillim. Also found are miscellaneous literary and art-related periodicals featuring Benn's artwork and Artists and Writers Chap Books (1933-1935) that include artwork by Velida and Ben Benn.
Photographs of works of art, personal photographs, and negatives that include images of Benn's paintings and exhibition installation shots; photographs and snapshots of Ben and Velida Benn, including an image of Benn taken by Peter A. Juley and Son; and negatives of Ben Benn and works of art.
The papers of woodworker, sculptor, and furniture designer Garry Knox Bennett measure 12.4 linear feet, 0.446 gigabytes, and date from 1917 to 2017 with the bulk of the material dating from 1960 to 2017.
The collection includes biographical materials containing Bennett's birthday and wedding celebration material, appointment calendars, childhood artwork, sketches and patterns for projects, photographs and notes regarding the Bennetts' marriage, resumes, student records, and material regarding the Bennetts' house fire in 2003. Correspondence is with artists Wendell Castle and Nancy Jurs, June Schwarcz, Kay Sekimachi and Bob Stocksdale, Albert Paley who describes an accident that occurred in 2002, and good friend and writer Jack Marlowe, as well as with wife Sylvia and daughter Jessica. Exhibition files consist of artwork price lists, artist statements, shipping documents, correspondence, and printed materials for Bennett's solo and group exhibitions. They also include documentation of a few exhibitions showing pieces from his personal art collection.
Professional files relate to workshops, lectures, exhibitions, donations, and grant proposals. Also found are project and publication files, artist statements written by Jack Marlowe and Tom Farber for Bennett, studio visit records, a video recording of an interview with Bennett, and a few digital recordings. The Made in Oakland: The Furniture of Garry Knox Bennett (2001) retrospective files consist of correspondence, fundraising records, lender files, and material regarding the creation of a book that also served as the catalog for the exhibition. Financial and legal records contain check registers, invoices and receipts, card files containing sales information, and legal material relating to the estate of Peter T. Joseph. Printed materials include clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and exhibition history material. Additional printed material can be found in the scrapbooks recording exhibitions and Bennett's career. The scrapbooks also include some personal items such as letters, photographs, and documents from Bennett's youth.
Handwritten notes by Sylvia Bennett, offering additional history and context, can be found throughout the collection. The notes were typically written onto the original folders which have been preserved along with the related material.
The series contains wedding anniversary and birthday celebration plans, appointment calendars, notes and photographs documenting Bennett's marriage history, personal photographs of Bennett's family and friends, photographs of Bennett working with Wendell Castle on a collaboration project, and student and childhood records. Files of artwork include childhood drawings, notes with doodles and cartoons to Bennett's wife Sylvia, and sketches and patterns for woodworking projects. In 2003, the Bennett's home caught fire endangering their vast collection of artworks, some of which were designated to be exhibited at the inaugural exhibition of the San Francisco Museum of Craft Design, Dovetailing Art and Life: The Bennett Collection. The file for the Bennett's house fire consists of photographs of their damaged home and thank you letters to members of the fire department.
3 calendars
Includes some sketches and patterns for woodworking and sculpture projects.
Includes photographs and photocopies of Bennett, Bennett and Wendell Castle working on a collaboration project, and work by Robert Dunlop.
Correspondence is with artists includes Wendell Castle and Nancy Jurs, June Schwarcz, Kay Sekimachi and Bob Stocksdale, Albert Paley who describes an accident that occurred in 2002, and good friend and writer Jack Marlowe. Other correspondence is with colleagues, curators, collectors, students, and other associates discussing various activities. Family correspondence includes letters from Bennett's daughter Jessica, as well as postcards and letters between Bennett and his wife Sylvia. Some files, particularly for artists, may include printed material.
Includes letters with Alan Wilson and Ondrej Mares.
Gerraldo Bennucci was one of the pseudonyms used by Bennett.
Includes a letter of recommendation written by Bennett.
Includes letters between Bennett and wife Sylvia and letters from his daughter Jessica.
Includes draft of "How to Get Anyone to Do Anything."
The exhibitions documented in the series date from 1980 to 2016 and include files for exhibitions of Bennett's work, as well as exhibitions of pieces from his personal art collection. The files contain correspondence, artwork lists and prices, loan forms, artist statements, and printed exhibition material.
Files titled with the names of museums, galleries, and organizations consist of correspondence, loan forms, artwork lists, contracts, printed materials, and other material related to various activities in which Bennett was involved. Other files are for donations, grant proposals, juror and panelist roles, projects and publications, and studio visits and tours. Also included are artist statements by Tom Farber written under the pseudonym Tomaso Fabrizzi for Bennett's jeweler and painter pseudonyms Gerraldo Bennucci and Ambrose Pillphister. Bennett disliked writing artist statements and often looked to other people to write them for him. Bennett's close friend and writer Jack Marlowe wrote several tongue-in-cheek statements for Bennett that became widely distributed and included in articles about Bennett that took snippets from these statements. The Bennetts thought that statements did not read well when partially printed in an article, therefore they stopped sending Marlowe's statements to journalists. The series also includes digital formats including digital video recordings of an interview with Bennett for the Oakland Museum.
Includes Bennett's Calico/Trestle table project plans.
Includes transcript of interview with Garry and Sylvia Bennett.
Includes 2 video cassettes (VHS). Duplicates.
Includes material for the Masters of the Medium Awards.
The 2001 retrospective of Bennett's work was first exhibited at the American Craft Museum in New York before traveling to the Oakland Museum. Files include correspondence, fundraising records, publicity, loan agreements, and material regarding photographs and slides. Lender files contain correspondence with collectors requesting to visit their homes in order to assess the works they own by Bennett for possible use in the exhibition, photographs of artwork, printed material, forms, and notes.
A large portion of the series contains material regarding the creation of a book that also served as the catalog for the retrospective. Initially, the American Craft Museum was tasked with developing the book, but after some debate over pricing the remainder of the book's development fell into the hands of the Bennetts. They worked with curator Ursula Neuman, designer Mark Ong, and editor Fronia Simpson to finish the book. The book includes an exhibition history compiled by Elizabeth Bard and a chronology by John Marlowe.
Series includes card files containing sales information from Bennett's early works, invoices and receipts, check registers, and legal records for the estate of Peter T. Joseph.
3 registers
Series includes clippings, event programs, announcements and catalogs for exhibitions of work by Bennett and others, invitations, and some miscellaneous items.
The scrapbooks contain mainly printed exhibition materials and clippings pertaining to Bennett's career. Some personal items such as letters, photographs, and documents from Bennett's youth can be found in the unbound material.
Correspondence tied with research in preparation for Bentivoglio's book on Shahn. Includes two letters from Edith Gregor Halpert of the Downtown Gallery. Also includes one copy photograph of Shahn's photo "The accordion player" and a printed flier for "A treasury of Yiddish stories" (a book with illustrations by Shahn).
Biographical material; an interview with Benton concerning his Truman Library mural; correspondence, including many illustrated letters to his parents written while he was in school, studying in Paris, and in the Navy in Virginia; a letter from Thomas Craven and one from Stanton Macdonald-Wright; manuscripts, including "An American in Art," "An Artist in America," "Death of Grant Wood," "American Regionalism," "Life in Paris," "The Intimate Story," "Politics," and notes on Jackson Pollock; notes and notebooks containing writings; a handwritten manuscript of his speech at the dedication of his Truman Library mural; a few sketches and plates of his illustration for TOM SAWYER; a catalog, printed articles by Benton, and clippings; research material; and a photograph of Benton.
Correspondence; writings; notes; estate lists; contracts; photographs of works of art; exhibition catalogs; clippings; miscellaneous printed material.
REEL 925: Correspondence with artists, 1954-1968, concerning Benton's purchase and background of their works; and writings by Benton on Soviet art.
REEL 3134: A 13-page, incomplete, typescript, 1955, "Reginald Marsh as I Remember Him," by Benton. He writes of working with Marsh on the YALE RECORD and collecting Marsh's paintings.
REEL 4073: Correspondence, 1940-1983, with artists; typescripts on Marsh; writing by Jack Levine "How the Witches' Sabbath was Painted";
photographs and lists of works of art; a notebook "Works of Art on Loan to the William Benton Museum, University of Connecticut" from Benton's estate; a notebook "Painting Contracts" between artists, galleries, and Encyclopaedia Britannica, Inc.; notebook "Sold," containing data on the sale of Reginald Marsh's work;
printed material on Rockwell Kent, Thomas Hart Benton, Benton's collection, and others; photocopies of 2 portions of Ivan Albright's sketchbooks; a notebook "Britannica Painting Exhibitions Manual of Procedure"; a 2 p. typescript "The Story of My Portrait" by Grant Wood's sister Nan Wood Graham; 3 illustrated notebooks by Ivan Albright; and a sketchbook by Reginald Marsh containing 33 figure sketches.
Correspondents include Ivan Albright, Thomas Hart Benton, George Biddle, Isabel Bishop, Aaron Bohrod, Salvador Dali, Abner Dean, Koren Der Harootian, Jimmy Ernst, Milton Hebald, Joseph Hirsch, Ben Johnson, Rockwell Kent, Frank Kleinholz, Jack Levine, Reginald Marsh, Henry Varnum Poor, James N. Rosenberg, Hella Moravic Sachs, and Orest G. Vereisky.
Reel NY 65-2: Album of black and white photographs of the artist's paintings. Reel N69-122: Catalogues, scrapbook leaves, articles, 1943-1952.
Frames 1 through 58 are missing.
The papers of Jason Berger and Marilyn Powers measure 2.1 linear feet and date from 1942-2001. Included are correspondence, including Berger's Army correspondence to Frieda Humowitz (some illustrated) and miscellaneous correspondence (some letters are xeroxes); sketches by Berger; 22 sketchbooks by Berger; 7 appointment books containing sketches, addresses, and notes; photographs of work by Powers; Powers and Berger passports containing photographs of them and their son, Adam; 2 photographs of Berger taken by Michael Peirce; reproductions of work; exhibition related material; printed material; and clippings. Also included are a VHS videotape, "Jason Berger/At the Edge of the World," (1993) produced by Howard Posner; and material relating to The Direct Vision including, correspondence, writings, exhibition related material, clippings, press releases, an application for financial assistance, and legal documents pertaining to incorporation.
Correspondence regarding Wilde's paintings owned by Berger.
The papers of Swedish-born painter and collagist Siri Berg measure 1.1 linear feet and date from 1966 to 1998. The bulk of the collection consists of studies for artwork, and may include paint color choices and samples, sketches, plans, and notes. Also found are scattered correspondence, photographs, printed material, and a video recording of Berg in her SoHo studio.
Studies for artworks include Berg's The Black Series, Cosmic Veil, Kabala Series, La Ronde, and Tops of Kites. Photographs depict Berg, exhibitions, and works of art.
Art study files may include color samples, color tests, notes, plans, and sketches. Correspondents include Centre Georges Pompidou, Peje Emilsson, Guggenheim Museum, Israel Museum, Jerusalem, and the University of Alabama at Birmingham. Photographs depict Berg, her exhibitions, and artworks. Printed materials consist of clippings, exhibition announcements, and catalogs. Also found is a video recording of Berg in her SoHo studio.
Material gathered by Berkson in preparation for exhibitions on sculptors Ronald Bladen and Les Levine.
The Bladen material, compiled for a retrospective at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, 1991, includes: biographical material; an unpublished artists' statement, 1946; interviews of Bladen; material from the California School of Fine Art's archives, and the Whitney Museum of American Art; Bladen correspondence, 1931-1956; Berkson correspondence, 1990-1991; a painting checklist; writings by and about Bladen; photographs of Bladen's paintings and sculptures; exhibition announcements 1941-1983; and clippings and reviews, 1941-1987.
Files on Les Levine include photographs, slides, correspondence, articles, announcements, and clippings. Included are information on his media projects Subway Project (1989) and Diamond Mind.
Typescript of an article, "Out of the Wookwork: A New Look at WPA-FAP Murals," with a checklist of New York City WPA-FAP murals.
Biographical materials, journals, sketchbooks, drawings, and photographs.
REEL 1310: A journal detailing Berman's life and career, giving his views on painting and art, and containing daily entries.
REEL 1339: 238 letters from Berman's brother, Eugene, and from his wife, Sylvia; three undated drawings, probably by Eugene; printed material; and postcards.
REEL 1497: A handwritten manuscript of a book written in French, FRANCE IGNOREE ET PERDUE, illustrated with photographs and postcards by Berman. The book was not finished.
REEL 1343: Five diaries, three of which were kept by Berman on a trip to Asia with his wife, 1955-1956.
REEL 1418: Two sketchbooks and several sketches of rural and seaside scenes, some annotated regarding colors to be used for the painting.
UNMICROFILMED: Personal documents; awards; biographical information; a genealogy; letters; memoirs; travel diaries; journals; a note book; a sketch; poems; eulogies; sales records; loan agreements; lists of Leonid's paintings; receipts for art supplies; mailing lists; funeral registers; clippings; printed material; exhibition catalogs; and photographs.
Papers relating to an exhibition, "China Revisited: Ink Paintings by Thomas George," at the National Collection of Fine Arts, Smithsonian Institution, 1977. Included are letters to Bermingham from Thomas George, Betty Parsons Gallery, and Paul Boorstin, a list of paintings in the exhibition, notes, George's résumé and statement for the catalogue, a draft of the catalogue, and exhibition invitations.
The Wallace Berman papers, 1907-1979 (bulk 1955-1979), measure 5 linear feet and present a cursory overview of Berman's career as an assemblage artist and poet. The collection is valuable not only for its documentation of the work of Wallace Berman, but for its documentation of the California beat movement of the late 1950s through the early 1970s.
Found are numerous letters, writings, poems, and other published material which portray the thoughts, attitudes, and trends popular in a prominent underground culture which eventually led to radical changes in America and American art. The collection contains business correspondence, letters from other artists and writers of the beat movement, writings by others, scattered artwork by Berman, and photographs by Robert F. Heinecken. In addition, the collection contains files for Berman's mail art publications Semina and S.M.S. Also of note is the large volume of printed material (2.7 feet), much of it in the form of books and other published material. Sound recordings include poets Michael McClure, Kenneth Patchen, David Melzer, and another unidentified writer performing their work.
This series consists of miscellaneous business letters, ten letters from Berman, and letters from colleagues.
This folder includes two pieces of correspondence from mail artist Richard C., one of which is signed for Ray Johnson by Richard C.
This series consists of one folder of sentence fragements taken from a London interview of Berman undertaken by Sandrada.
This series includes a typescripts for two manuscripts and poems by Michael McClure, David Meltzer, and John Wieners.
This series consists of eleven collages and nine drawings by Berman, and eight "photograms" by Robert F. Heinecken.
This series consists of copies of Berman's mail art publication Semina. There are multiple copies of Nos. 1, 2, 4-8, and an envelope for No. 9. The files also contains Semina Art Gallery announcements.
This series consists of a copy of No. 1 of the mail art publication S. M. S.
This series consists of clippings, exhibition announcements, catalogs, brochures, booklets, scripts written by Berman's colleagues, seventy-four books, and miscellaneous printed material. Exhibition announcements and catalogs for others includes a catalog authographed by Jasper Johns.
The books in this subseries include works on various religions, theories, and philosophies fundamental to the beat movement. There are first edition publications by many of the movement's leaders.
This series contains photgraphs of Berman, his wife, his colleagues, the Poets' Parade, and his work Wall Painting. The five photographs of Berman show him with Artie Richer, B. Alexander, David Meltzer at Fergus Gallery, his son Tosh, and William Hillman. Photographs of colleagues include: Cameron, 1962; Richard Constantino, 1958; S. Berman and Samson de Brier, 1956; Samson de Brier, 1957; Bill Eisenlord, undated; George Herms, 1960; Louise Herms, 1958; Pat Jordan, 1960; Philip Lamantia, 1958 and 1959; Michael McClure (16 undated photographs); Artie Richer with Berman, 1958; John Wieners, 1959 and 1964.
This series contains twelve reel-to-reel tapes of poetry readings by Micahel McClure, David Meltzer, and Kenneth Patchen.
Sketches, photographs, notes, a scrapbook, and printed material.
REEL 2787: A notebook containing sketches and notes on the completion of the Willard Parker Hospital mural, New York City, which Sakari Suzuki painted with the assistance of Berntsen for the Federal Arts Project in 1936-1938; and 9 photographs of the Willard Parker mural, 2 of which show Suzuki and 2 of Suzuki and Berntsen at work. The Willard Parker Hospital was later demolished.
UNMICROFILMED: A chronology of Berntsen's career; 24 sketches in pencil and in pen and ink of ironworkers and construction workers, ca. 1933-1934, and of visitors to the National Gallery where Berntsen was a guard, ca. 1966-1971; three letters from Bernsten to his wife Alma, 1947-1952; loose newspaper clippings, ca. 1933-1985, and a scrapbook of newspaper clippings (in Norwegian and English) concerning Berntsen's involvement with the Norwegian Art and Craft Club, and his paintings and sketches of workers at construction sites where he worked as an ironworker, ca. 1931-1976; two exhibition announcements, 1964 and 1986; photographs, ca. 1933-1987, mostly snapshots, include Berntsen painting, Bernsten in his National Gallery of Art guard uniform with Chief Justice Earl Warren, one of students and faculty of the Art Students League (ca. 1933-1934), one of Diego Rivera and Frida Kahlo in New York, several of Berntsen and Suzuki at work on the Willard Parker Hospital mural, ca. 1938, of events sponsored by the Norwegian Art and Craft Club, and of works of art. Also included are photocopies of works of art.
Typescript of a history of Berninghaus' painting THE FEATHER by Dorothy B. Brandenburg, 1976; 2 undated auction and exhibition catalogs; clippings; and photographs of works of art.
Awards and certificates; photocopies of correspondence; catalogs and announcements and a book, Harry Bertoia, Sculptor by June Compass Nelson (Wayne State Univ., 1970), and a phonograph album of Bertoia's sound sculpture "Sonambient." Also included is an illustrated booklet entitled "My Career" by Bertoia written when he was 17 and a student in Gladys Little's occupational information class at Cleveland Junior High School in Detroit, Mich. The booklet has been microfilmed on reel 2787.
Correspondence with Mrs. Wanda K. Sivells, Director, J. M. Hodges Learning Center, Wharton County Junior College, Wharton, Texas, regarding Bess' paintings and the donation of his personal library to Wharton Library.
This collection of Forrest Bess photographs and slides consists of 20 photographs, 38 slides, and 38 negatives, and dates from circa 1981. 20 color prints and 31 slides are of works of art by Forrest Bess; some, if not all, are from the collection of Harry Burkhart of Bay City, Texas. Negatives are labeled "Fridge Curtis" and are also of artwork by Bess. Also found are 5 slides of works by Bess from the Hawkins Ranch collection, and 2 slides of works from the Margaret and Austen Furse collection.
Printed material, including magazine covers, magazine articles, and an invitation; photocopies of letters; biographical data; and a photograph of Bezman; correspondence; and three books on solar energy design.
The papers of government arts administrator and novelist Livingston L. Biddle, Jr. (1918-2002) measure 40.2 linear feet and date from circa 1940 to 2002. The papers are comprised of biographical materials, correspondence, interviews, writings, numerous files reflecting his work to establish the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA), political committee files, personal legal records, printed materials, scrapbooks, and photographs. Throughout the collection are video and sound recordings.
Biographical materials consist of awards; diplomas; genealogy records; resumes; and files for Biddle's work at Fordham, his nomination for the National Medal of Arts award, and about his second wife Catharina Baart. Correspondence is with family, friends, and professional and political contacts such as Jane Alexander, President Jimmy Carter, Armand Hammer, Nancy Hanks, Edward Kennedy, Lady Bird Johnson, Sandra Day O'Connor, Claiborne Pell, Robert Rauschenberg, Slava Rostropovich, and others.
Interviews with Biddle include transcripts, four sound recordings, and two video recordings of Biddle with R.A. Davis, Bob Edwards, Peter Jessup, Susan King, Bob Schieffer, and Louann Temple.
Among the writings are journals, articles, poetry, speech notes, manuscript drafts of Our Government and the Arts: A Perspective from the Inside and Sam Bentley's Island, one video recording of "Art/Work/USA" by Barbara Rose, and one sound recording of a film introduction entitled "The Eagle".
Files concerning the establishment and early years of the National Endowment of the Arts consist of correspondence; congressional briefing books, committee files, and reports; financial material; drafts of the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities Act of 1965; one sound reel titled "Swearing-In of L.L. Biddle, Jr.," and three video recordings. Additional files concerning Biddle's work for congressional committees and political campaigns include correspondence, meeting agendas and notes, and printed material concerning multiple arts organizations and the political campaigns for Jimmy Carter, Walter Mondale, and Claiborne Pell. Family and real estate records, a partnership agreement, and will are in personal legal records.
Printed materials include booklets, clippings, event invitations and programs, flyers, magazines and journals, and posters autographed by Jacob Lawrence, Fritz Scholder, and John Glenn. Additionally, one commercial sound cassette recordings of National Public Radio's program Performance Today is also found. Two mixed-media scrapbooks contain memorabilia from Biddle's professional life and international travel.
Photographs are of family, travel, and friends and colleagues at various events. Six video recordings are home movies of Bryn Mawr and documentaries about St. Katherine Drexel. Artwork in the form of pencil and watercolor sketches is by Ruth Asawa Lanier, Barb Maxwell, Pat Oliphant, James Rosenquist, and Howard N. Watson.
Biographical materials consist of appointment books, architectural plans of Biddle's property, certificates, keys to the city, plaques, diplomas, genealogy records, resumes, material from Biddle's tenure in the art department of Fordham University, Princeton University reunion records, and material regarding Biddle's nomination for the National Medal of Arts. The file for Catharina Baart contains resumes and statements on her career as an artist.
Oversized material housed in Box 41.
Oversized material housed in OV 43.
Personal and professional correspondence is with Biddle's family; former NEA chairs and political figures including Jane Alexander, Presidnt Jimmy Carter, Armand Hammer, Nancy Hanks, Frank Hodsoll, Lady Bird Johnson, Edward Kennedy, John Murtha, Claiborne Pell, Roger Stevens, and Sidney Yates; and other notable figures such as Sandra Day O'Connor, Robert Rauschenberg, and Slava Rostropovich. The series also contains correspondence with the American Film Institute, Century Club, Drexel University, and Music Critics Association, Inc.
Interviews include transcripts, four sound recordings, and two video recordings of Biddle on CBS' Nightwatch and the Evening News with Bob Schieffer, WETA's Desert Island Discs with R.A. Davis, and other interviews with Bob Edwards, Louann Temple, Peter Jessup, and Susan King. Also found is an interview with Bobby Mitchell conducted by Marion O. Greene, Jr. and Kim McCullough.
Writings by Biddle include journals, drafts for articles, essays, plays, and short stories; poetry and songs; speech notes; one sound recording and two video recordings; drafts for the novels "Biddle Tales," Sam Bentley's Island, and "The Triptych"; and drafts for Biddle's book about his experiences with the NEA titled Our Government and the Arts: A Perspective from the Inside. Writings by others include one video recording of Barbara Rose's film "Art/Work/USA," one sound recording of a film introduction entitled "The Eagle," and writings by Claiborne Pell.
This series documents Biddle's lengthy involvement with the NEA from its creation in 1965 through his appointments as congressional liaison officer, deputy chairman, and his appointment by President Jimmy Carter as chairman from 1977 to 1981. Included are drafts by Biddle for the National Foundation of the Arts and Humanities Act of 1965 which led to the creation of the NEA and the National Endowment for the Humanities, files for agencies that worked closely with the NEA, conferences and events, briefing books that detail Biddle's travel agendas and provide background information on the arts of each locality, financial information, programs managed by the NEA, and reports. Additionally, three video recordings and one sound reel titled "Swearing-In of L.L. Biddle, Jr." are included.
Oversized material housed in Box 42.
This series consists of files, primarily accumulated after Biddle's NEA chairmanship, documenting his service as a prominent fundraiser and organizer for multiple committees and political campaigns. The files contain correspondence, meeting agendas and notes, solicitation letter drafts, and printed material for the American Council for the Arts, American Field Service Committee, Committee on Labor and Public Welfare, Corcoran Museum Board of Overseers Exhibitions Committee, Cosmos Club Arts Committee, Duke Ellington School of the Arts, Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, National Museum of Women in the Arts, various Washington, D.C. arts organizations, and the Catherine Bertini, Jimmy Carter, Judy Hancock, Walter Mondale, Claiborne Pell, and Sidney Yates campaigns. This series includes one sound recording.
Found in this series are estate records for Biddle's mother, Eugenia Law Biddle, and his first wife, Frances Fenton Biddle; records for an investment partnership agreement facilitated by Michael T. Yao; real estate deeds, appraisal reports, and property agreements for multiple properties; and versions of Biddle's will.
Booklets, clippings, event invitations and programs, flyers, magazines and journals, newsletters, one sound cassette of National Public Radio's program Performance Today, and posters autographed by artists Jacob Lawrence and Fritz Scholder, and astronaut John Glenn are found in this series.
Oversized material housed in Box 41.
Oversized material housed in OV 44.
Two scrapbooks and loose scrapbook material with memorabilia from the NEA and Biddle's travels are in this series.
Photographs are of Biddle, his family, friends and colleagues at arts and political events, and of international travel to China, Tibet, Turkey, and many other places in the United States, Europe, Asia, and Africa. The series also includes six video recordings of Biddle's trip to Russia, his hometown of Bryn Mawr, and his ancestor, St. Katherine Drexel.
Oversized material housed in Box 42.
Oversized material housed in Box 42 and OV 44.
An ink drawing of singer Diahann Carroll, sketches by Ruth Asawa Lanier, watercolors by Barb Maxwell and Howard N. Watson, a cartoon by Pat Oliphant, and a silkscreen by James Rosenquist are in artwork.
Correspondence with Stanton Macdonald-Wright, 1963-1968, regarding Birren's book on color expression. Also included is a photocopy of Macdonald-Wright's A TREATISE ON COLOR, 1924, and 2 Macdonald-Wright exhibition announcements.
The papers of illustrator, writer and collector Ilse Martha Bischoff measure 1.2 linear feet and date from 1893-1981. Found are scattered personal and business records, correspondence, pencil and watercolor sketches, notes and writings, printed material and photographs.
Correspondence is primarily with family members and colleagues including Paul Cadmus and Jared French. Artwork includes pencil and watercolor sketches, and notes and writings consist primarily of typescripts of Bischoff's short stories. Printed material includes clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and miscellaneous printed material relating to Bischoff's European travel. Of special interest are photographs of Bischoff, her family, and colleagues including Paul Cadmus and Jared French.
This series contains a description and blueprint of Bishchoff's property in Hartland, Vermont, a kennel name certificate, and miscellaneous receipts, as well as Bischoff's passport documenting trips to Germany, France and Great Britain.
Correspondence consists primarily of an exchange of letters between Bischoff and her sister Carola Bischoff and her husband, Harold Graves Terwilliger, whose nicknames were "Ollie" and "Twig." There are also letters exchanged with colleagues including artists Paul Cadmus, Jared French, Felix Kelly, and Ivan Albright, writers Mabel Louise Robinson, and Glenway Wescott, and design consultant John Wisner. One letter from Cadmus is illustrated with cartoons of road signs and gives directions to his house. There are several letters from collector of porcelain Ralph H. Wark. There is also a postcard from Prince Karlos Biorn von Kurland displaying a photograph of the Prince and his wife.
Artwork consists of pencil and watercolor sketches of human figures and poodles, primarily for use as book illustrations.
This series includes research notes for Bischoff's writing, notes about daily activities written in text form, an inventory list of her porcelain collection, and manuscripts and typescripts of miscellaneous writings. There is also a carbon copy of a manuscript about Bischoff written by Paul Cadmus.
Printed material includes clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, a press release, programs for Italian and German opera performances, German tour booklets, brochures for children's books and a festival in Salzburg, Austria, picture postcards of artwork and scenic European views, and a calling card for Ernst Bischoff.
Photographs are of Bischoff, her family, and her colleagues including painters Paul Cadmus and Jared French, and design consultant John Wisner. There are also photographs of artwork executed between 1935-1965 and of figurines and dishes from Bischoff's porcelain collection.
Selected records of the Black Mountain College which pertain to the visual arts program, including minutes and attendent papers; general files; faculty files; and treasurer's files (record groups I, II, III, and VI). Photographs from the general files were microfilmed separately on roll 204.
The letters from artist Nell Blaine and her friend New York bookseller Robert A. Wilson measure 0.6 linear feet and date from 1962 to 2010. Additional material includes scattered business records, photographs, printed material, and a typescript of Blaine's journal.
Found are letters written by Nell Blaine to her friend Robert Wilson dating from 1962 to 1997. Some letters are written on the back of exhibition announcements and also include holiday cards. Also found is a letter from Wilson to the Archives of American Art in 2010. Other scattered records include business records from Blaine's purchases from Wilson's bookstore; two photographs of Blaine's studio; printed material including clippings and exhibition announcements and catalogs; and a typescript of Blaine's 1967 journal.
The Bland Gallery letters collection dates from 1931-1953, and comprises 60 items, primarily letters, discussing the collection and sale of miniature portraits.
Correspondence is with John Hill Morgan, discussing the authentication and purchase of eighteenth century American historic engravings and portraits; correspondence with Henry F. du Pont relating to collecting American portraits and naval scenes; correspondence with Josiah K. Lilly, regarding collecting portraits of English and American literary and political figures; and correspondence with David K. E. Bruce, and others. One October 1953 letter is from Albert Deane of Paramount International Films in New York, concerning a possible Gilbert Stuart miniature.
The papers of painter Lucile Blanch (1895-1981) measure 0.5 linear feet and date from circa 1898 to 1963. The scattered papers comment on Blanch's relationships with her husband Arnold Blanch, her sister Beatrice Lundquist, and fellow artists. Found are biographical material, correspondence, a diary fragment by Beatrice Lundquist, and photographs.
Biographical materials include a sketch of cats by Blanch sent to her sister Beatrice and two writings. An untitled writing concerns art and another is a supplemental narrative for Blanch's application for a Guggenheim Fellowship.
Lucile Blanch's correspondence includes letters to her sister Beatrice, as well as letters from fellow artists and friends. Notable correspondents include Edward Bruce, Stuart Edie Carson, Ernst Fiene, Ray Harris, Frida Khalo, Yasuo Kuniyoshi, Barbara Morgan, Diego Rivera, Eleanor Rixson, Dorothy Varian, and Forbes Watson. Many letters concern Blanch's application to the Guggenheim Fellowship. Blanch's letters to Beatrice Lundquist and her family are detailed and personal. Many letters describe her current artworks, memories, travel, and the art business run by Blanch and her husband Arnold. Blanch discusses visits with other artists and her own feelings of inadequacy. Additional letters are from school-aged children thanking Blanch for a lecture.
Arnold Blanch's correspondence is from Alexander Brook, Adolf Dehn, Reginald Marsh, Frank Rehn, and Katherine Schmidt. Letters from Beatrice Lunquist are to her sister and other members of their family. Scattered family letters are from Blanch's mother and brother.
A diary fragment by Beatrice Lundquist is labeled as her last diary and was kept immediately prior to her death.
Photographs include infant and childhood portraits of Lucile Blache, Beatrice Lundquist, and other members of the Lunquist family. Later snapshots were taken of Lucile and Beatrice in New Hope, Pennsylvania, and on various vacations. Additional photographs are of Beatrice throughout her life, and may include modeling photos.
The scattered papers of painter Dorothy Block measure 0.7 linear feet and date from 1925 to 1982. Found are biographical materials, correspondence with Dorothy Grotz, Aristodemos Kaldis, Jacob Lawrence, and others, photographs of Block and of works of art, printed material, a mixed media scrapbook, sketches, and writings. Also found are clippings and a photo of the artwork of Louis Keila, Block's uncle.
Artwork consists of eleven sketches by Block. Biographical data includes a copy of Block's transcript from the Art Students League, an award, and her obituary. Correspondence is with Dorothy Grotz, Aristodemos Kaldis, Jacob Lawrence, and others. A file on Block's uncle Louis Keila consists of a photo of Keila's sculpture and two clippings.
Photographs depict Block, her family, Michael Freilich, Aristodemos Kaldis, and William von Schlegell; works of art; and an exhibition. Printed material includes clippings and exhibition announcements and catalogs. Writings by Block reflect on her career and the art world, including an article titled "Some Thoughts on Where We Stand" (1972), a fragment of her memoir, and reminiscences of the Federal Art Project.
A mixed media scrapbook contains reproductions of famous paintings annotated by Block for children.
Seven drawings by Bloom.
Footage taken by Blower, who was a student at the John Wicker School of Art, of faculty members including John P. Wicker himself and Sarkis Sarkisian.
Correspondence, jottings, catalogs, clippings, and 149 photographs, ca. 1950-1969, including 17 of Bluhm (some with other artists) and 132 of his works. Artists included in the photos are Insho Domoto, Michael Goldberg, Joan Mitchell, Phillip Pavia, Peter Pollack, Jean-Paul Riopelle, Nadja Scarpitta, Syd Solomon, Nora Speyer, Antonio Tapies, and Wou-Ki Zao.
A photograph (b&w) of Lili Blumenau at work at a loom, taken by David Vestal, undated; and a certificate "In Recognition of Public Service" issued by the United States Department of State to Blumenau for her "assistance in the American program for the Brussels Universal and International Exhibition, 1958."
The papers of New York and Connecticut painter Peter Blume date from 1870 to 2001 and measure 7.6 linear feet. Found are biographical materials; correspondence with family, friends, colleagues, galleries and institutions, and writers; writings on art by Blume and others; subject files regarding organizations, works of art, exhibitions, and reference files; personal business records; printed material; two scrapbooks; photographs of Blume, family, friends, and works of art; extensive artwork; and material relating to Blume's wife's family, the Cratons.
Biographical materials include an award, obituaries, a travel itinerary, and sound recordings and transcripts of interviews of Peter Blume by Alfred H. Barr, Boston College, Harry Boursa, and Visionary Company Magazine.
Correspondence is professional and personal. Letters are from friends, family, artists, writers, galleries, and institutions. Notable correspondents include Kirk Askew, Malcolm Cowley, Peter DeVries, Joseph Hirsch, and Frank A. Trapp, among others. Also found is Grace Blume's correspondence which includes letters to and from Peter Blume and letters from Grace to her family members and friends. The bulk of Grace Blume's correspondence concerns her travels with Blume.
Writings and notes by Blume include a travel journal, lists of works of art, lectures, talks and other writings on art, artists, and friends. Writings by others include theses and scholarly papers about Blume, and include writings by Heber Blankenhorn, Kenneth Burke, Malcolm Cowley, Robert Ulrich Godsoe, Frank Getlein, Michael A. Kelly, and Frank A. Trapp. Also found is criticism on The Rock by school children.
Blume's subject files cover the American Academy of Arts and Letters, American Artists Congress, Heber Blankenhorn, works of art by Blume, exhibitions, and the Connecticut Council on the Arts. Also found are reference files consisting of photographs of artwork by others and clippings.
Personal business and financial records consist of business correspondence with galleries and museums; sales and consignment records; scattered price lists; and receipts and invoices relating to the building and running of Blume's house in Connecticut.
Printed materials include clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs for solo and group shows, magazines featuring articles about Blume, posters, and reproductions of works of art.
Scrapbooks include a fragment of a scrapbook from 1942-1944 and a clippings scrapbook from 1934-1939.
Photographs include portraits and snapshots of Peter Blume, Grace Blume, family, friends, travel, parties, pets, homes, landscapes, exhibitions, and works of art. There are also photos of the Askews, the Blankenhorns, the Cowleys, Alfred Eisenstaedt, the Holstens, the Josephsons, Arthur Miller, Georgia O'Keeffe, the Sobys, and Raphael Soyer.
Artwork by Peter Blume includes completed drawings, sketches, doodles, prints, and preliminary drawings for many of his works. Of note are extensive sketches of heads, and preliminary drawings for Recollection of the Flood.
Craton family papers consist of geneological material relating to Grace Blume's brother, James Craton and his wife Catherine Sears Craton. Found are vital records; military records for James and Marshall Craton; correspondence; scattered financial records; clippings; and family photographs.
Scattered biographical records include an award, Peter Blume's obituaries, a map of his birthplace Smorgon, a travel itinerary; and sound recordings and transcripts of interviews with Peter Blume by Alfred H. Barr, Boston College, Harry Bouras, and Visionary Company Magazine. Also found are genealogical records for Grace Blume's family, the Cratons. Researchers should note that the bulk of the Craton family papers are arranged in Series 10.
Also includes a map of Blume's birthplace
Craton Family genealogy
Professional and personal correspondence is with friends, family, artists, writers, galleries, museums, and institutions. Correspondents include Kirk Askew, Kenneth Burke, Malcolm Cowley, Charles Daniel, Peter and Katinka DeVries, John Hersey, Joseph Hirsch, Abby Aldrich Rockefeller, and Frank A. Trapp, among many others. Some works of art have their own folder within correspondence as they reflect Blume's original order. All the letters are in reference to the specified artwork.
Also found are letters written by Peter Blume to Grace Blume while Blume travelled or was working away from home. There are extensive letters written by Grace Blume to her sister and brother-in-law, Ann and Heber Blankenhorn and to friends, Nancy and Ned Holsten, mostly written during the Blume's travels abroad.
Additional correspondence, particularly with galleries and museums, is found among the personal business and financial records. Also, scattered correspondence regarding genealogy is found in Series 10.
Includes some poetry by Heber Blankenhorn
Contains letters of praise from friends for exhibition openings
Includes letters of congratulations for winning Carnegie Prize
Writings by Blume include a travel journal, a notebook, lists of works of art, lectures, talks, and other writings about his art, about other artists and friends, and about art in general. Writings by others include theses and scholarly papers on Blume and poetry. Also found is a selection of criticism on The Rock, written by school children.
from South Pacific cruise
on Arshille Gorky's suicide
Includes printed materials
Also includes "The Bridge," by Hart Crane
Oversized material housed in Box 9, F2
Subject files were originally maintained by Peter Blume regarding organizations, works of art, exhibitions, reference files, and about Blume's brother-in-law, Heber Blankenhorn. Files include a variety of materials, such as correspondence, administrative records, writings, printed material, and photographs. Reference files contains photographs and clippings of works of art used as inspiration by Blume.
Includes correspondence, writings, printed material, and administrative records
Includes a proposal, correspondence, and legal records
Includes correspondence and printed material
Includes material concerning Blankenhorn's donation of his personal papers and military career, and printed materials.
Includes correspondence, printed material, photographs, and lists of works of art
Includes writings, photographs, and printed material
Includes correspondence and printed material
Includes correspondence, photographs, and printed material
Includes clippings and material regarding the Carnegie Prize. Oversized material housed in Box 9, F4.
Found here are records relating to the sale, exhibition, and loan of Peter Blume's works of art. Also found are financial records relating to the construction of Blume's home.
Regarding conservation and restoration
Oversized material housed in Box 9, F3
Printed materials concern Peter Blume's career, exhibitions, artwork, and art in general. Exhibition announcements and catalogs are found for Peter Blume's solo and group shows, some of which are annotated by Blume. Also found are posters, one of which includes a poem by Malcolm Cowley entitled Urn that is illustrated by Blume.
Oversized material housed in Box 9, F5
Annotated
Oversized material housed in Box 9, F1
Found is a clippings scrapbook dating from 1934 to 1939 and a fragment of a scrapbook from 1942 to 1944. The clippings scrapbook contains articles, most of which discuss Blume's works of art South of Scranton and The Eternal City. The scrapbook fragment contains a clipping, a postcard, a telegram from Ebie Blume to Mrs. Heber Blankenhorn, a diary entry, and a ledger page concerning the running of a household.
Includes a clipping, telegram, diary, and page of a ledger
Found are portraits and snapshots of Peter Blume, Grace 'Ebie' Blume, family members, friends, and colleagues. Other photographs depict travel, parties, exhibitions, the outdoors, homes, pets, and of works of art including paintings and sculpture.
Photographs of Peter Blume depict Blume painting outdoors and in his studio, with his art, with Grace Blume, and with family and friends. Travel photos are from Europe, Japan, and the American West. Some of the travel photos are of Ned and Nancy Holsten, the Blumes' travel companions and friends. Photographs of friends and family include the Cowleys, the Blankenhorns, the Askews, the Josephsons, and the Sobys, among others.
Photographs from a terrace party, likely taken by H. Strauss, depict many of the Blumes' friends and family in addition to Arthur Miller.
Photographs of exhibitions are from the American Institute in Rome and the Carnegie Institute.
Harry Blume's Birthday
Oversized material housed in Box 9, F8
With Alfred Eisenstaedt, Raphael Soyer, Malcolm Cowley, Barbara Tuchman, and Peter Blume
With Arthur Miller, Askews, Sobys, Josephsons, and Cowleys
Mostly unidentified. Oversized material housed in Box 9, F9.
Oversized material housed in Box 9, F7
Works of art by Blume include sketches, preliminary drawings, prints, and one final drawing. Media include pencil, pen, pastel, and charcoal. Sketches entitled Doodles were likely numbered and identified by Blume. Also found are a series of drawings of heads, some of which are mounted. Studies for Blume's works include: Parade (1930), The Obelisk (1932), Harps (1932), Fracture Ward (1945), The Rock (1948), The Shrine (1950), The Crucifixion (1951), Castle of Euralyus (1952), Landscape in Bali (1954), The Passage to Aetna (1956), Hadrian's Villa (1958), Tasso's Oak (1960), Banyon Trees (1961), Winter (1964), Summer (1966), Satyr with Cock (1967), Recollection of the Flood (1969), Boulders of Avila (1976), From the Metamorphosis (1979), Crashing Surf (1982), and Autumn (1984).
Works by Peter Blume owned by the Craton family are also found. These include three prints, one entitled Harps, and one drawing entitled New England Snow, which was exhibited at the Whitney Museum of American Art in 1938.
Also found is a work by Deborah Nourse Lattimore entitled Gilt Venus.
Oversized material housed in Box 9, F6
Oversized material housed in Box 9, F10
Oversized material housed in OV 10.
Oversized material housed in OV 11 and OV 14.
Includes The Rock
Found are family papers from Grace Blume's brother, James Craton and his wife, Catherine Sears Craton. The bulk of this series relates to the genealogical research performed by Catherine Craton on the Craton and Sears families. These materials include birth, marriage, military, baptismal, and death records, clippings, correspondence, and photographs. Also found is a letter from Grace Blume and an unsigned writing about Peter and Grace Blume by one of their nieces or nephews.
Xerox copies of Marshall Craton's Civil War service records including correspondence, payroll and muster rolls. Date determined from the date of the copies.
The Graham Boettcher artists' letters collection consists of twenty letters, photographs and printed material and dates from 1845-1991. Letters are from Robert Walter Weir to General George P. Morris, October 24, 1851; Louis J. Boury to Major General Winfield Scott Hancock, endorsed by General Reece Newport at Baltimore, Maryland, September 29, 1865; Emanuel Leutze to John Sartain, May 25, 1868; Caroline Shawk Brooks to Ben W. Austin, October 1, 1891, and a 1913 obituary newspaper clipping for Brooks; Edward Buyck to unknown, January 28, 1927; Hardesty Maratta to unknown, 188?; Lorado Taft to Mr. Mowser(?), September 10, 1912, and accompanying newspaper clippings (few annotated); Taft to Mr. Saunders, February 17, 1917; Daniel Chester French to Rachel Smith Ward, April 21, 1928; Claire Leighton to Dr. Eisenberg, March 29 [no year]; Robert Indiana to Geoffrey Vollers, December 18, 1991 with an accompanying photograph of "Star of hope" castle sculpture; First Lady Grace Coolidge to artist Frank O. Salisbury regarding his 1928 portrait of President Coolidge, December 7, 1934; Leopold C. Schmidt to U.S. Congressman Sol Bloom, April 3, 1931; Leopold C. Schmidt to the George Washington Centennial Committee, March 13, 1931; and Paul Dougherty to W. Whiting (?), February 12, 1908; sculptor George Gray Barnard to Mr. Kunz, April 14, 1924, regarding Barnard's sculpture of Lincoln; Robert Aitken to Mr. A.C. Tamburni regarding a proposed monument "Nation" and "State" in collaboration with H. Van Burn Magonigle, August 25, 1919, and CV for H. Van Buren Magonigle; Thomas Ball to Miss Brewer, August 16, 1845, regarding a visit and Kodak photographs; Thornton Oakley to Frank Schoonover, May 20, 1947; Abel G. Warshawsky to James Merles (?), June 6, 1949 with a newspaper clipping regarding Warshawsky from Citizen News, Hollywood, California, June 4, 1949; and two Carte de Viste photographs of Hiram Powers and one of Powers' plaster cast of Loulou's Hand.
A transcript of an interview with Aaron Bohrod conducted 1973-1974 by Ralph E. Sandler, for a film on Bohrod.
The papers of African American sculptor Chakaia Booker measure 2.3 linear feet and date from 1981 to 2018 with the bulk of the collection dating from 1994 to 2010. The collection consists primarily of printed material, including exhibition announcements; exhibition and auction catalogs; magazines; and newspapers. Also included are three folders of correspondence, including selected correspondence from artist Jack Whitten, and professional files, which includes a portfolio of Booker's work.
This series contains correspondence with museums, thank you letters Chakaia Booker received from students after a visit to the Rosa Park School, and a note and exhibition announcements from painter Jack Whitten.
Includes correspondence and accompanying printed material from Cedarhurst Center for the Arts, the Akron Art Museum, and the DeCordova Museum and Sculpture Park.
Includes announcements for exhibitions of Whitten's work.
Professional files include a resume and artist statement, likely printed to accompany exhibitions, as well as a portfolio (removed from a binder) containing photographs, slides, and artist statements regarding her work. Booker distributed this portfolio to galleries and museums prior to being represented by Marlborough Gallery.
Artist statement printed for Booker's work Industrial Subliminal-I-zation at Laumier Sculpture Park.
Printed material includes auction catalogs; announcements, invitations, and catalogs for exhibitions of Chakaia Booker's work; magazines; newsletters; newspapers; and reports from arts institutions.
Includes reports for McNay Art Museum, Cedarhurst Center for the Arts, and Abington Art Center.
A letter from his mother, W. O. Boot, to Leota Courtwright, February 20, 1949, in response to Courtwright's questionnaire addressed to R. G. Boot. Since R. G. Boot is in Paris, his mother attempts to provide the information Courtwright is seeking.
2 letters to John A. Stewart regarding Borglum's design of the Parkman memorial in Canada; 1 letter to Stewart accepting an invitation to join a committee at the Louisiana centenary celebration in New Orleans; and a note, possibly to Stewart.
Correspondence between Borglum and Dr. J.S. Lankford, between Borglum and Ellen Quillin, Director of the Witte Museum, San Antonio, Tex., and regarding Borglum's monument at the Alamo in San Antonio; photocopies of articles regarding Borglum's son, Lincoln; exhibition catalogs, brochures, and other printed material; and photographs of Borglum's sculpture.
The Solon H. Borglum and Borglum family papers date from 1864 to 2002 and measure 11.5 linear feet. The collection documents Solon Borglum's personal life and his career as a sculptor specializing in Western themes through biographical material, family and general correspondence, writings and notes, research for his biography, financial and business letters, printed material, photographs and artwork.
Biographical material contains documents providing information on the Borglum Family history as well as Solon's military service and memorial. Also found is a leather portfolio of ephemera kept by Emma Borglum. Family correspondence includes numerous letters between Solon and Emma and various members of their extended family. The letters discuss family events, everyday life, Solon's military service, and family history. General Correspondence pertains to Solon's career as an artist and includes his incoming and outgoing correspondence with galleries, foundries, patrons, fellow artists such as Augustus Saint-Gaudens, and others. Later correspondence from galleries, museums, foundries, historical societies, and other individuals and organizations, is addressed to his daughter Monica Borglum and concerns Solon's artwork and legacy after his death. Writings and notes include material written by Solon Borglum and material written by others. Solon's writings include project proposals as well as essays, lectures, and other notes on the topics of his own works of art, art and form, and his participation in World War I. Also found are Solon's diary, notebooks, and address books kept during the last five years of his life. Writings by others include writings by Emma and others about Solon Borglum, as well as guest books for the Silvermine Group of Artists.
Series five contains documents compiled by Monica Borglum Davies and her husband A. Mervyn Davies for a biography Solon Borglum. Included are their research files and notes as well as heavily edited drafts of book sections and draft manuscripts and notes. Financial and business records document Solon's professional career and legacy, including project contracts and financial proposals, account books, ledgers, receipts, and items regarding the Solon H. Borglum Sculpture and Education Fund. Printed material contains items about Solon Borglum's career and artwork compiled by his daughter, Monica Davies, and includes exhibition catalogs, exhibition announcements, brochures, programs, clippings, reports, and other publications. Also included is the textbook Sound Construction.
This collection also contains numerous photographs, including Solon's personal and family photographs, and photographs of his artwork. Family and personal photographs consist of photos of Solon taken throughout his career, including his time in military service, photos of his family and friends, various studios and residences including Rocky Ranch, and of him and and Emma at the Crow Creek Reservation. Artwork is comprised of sketches Solon made for his sculptural works and for Sound Construction. Also found are sketches by Emma and Gutzon Borglum, including a sketch of Solon, and artwork by others such as artist Robert Fulton Logan.
Biographical material includes citizenship papers for Solon's father, James Borglum, death certificates for two relatives, and other genealogical documents on the history of the Borglum Family. Also found are photographs, clippings, and other ephemera gathered in a leather portfolio by Emma Borglum. This series also contains items documenting Solon's role as Scoutmaster in Silvermine, as well as his service in World War I. Also found are written tributes and printed material for the Solon Borglum Memorials held at Saint Mark's in-the-Bouwerie and the National Sculpture Society. Folders are arranged chronologically by subject.
Oversized material housed in Box 13, Folder 1
Oversized material digitized with Box 1, Folder 8
Family Correspondence includes numerous letters between Solon and his wife Emma and his children, Paul and Monica. Most of their correspondence is from 1918 through 1919 while Solon was in the military in France. There are also many letters to Monica from Emma during the period shortly after Solon's death. Also found are letters to Solon from his parents James and Ida; and letters to Emma from her parents Jean and Lydie Vignal. There are also many letters to Emma from her sister Lucy Vignal Borglum, who married Solon's brother August, and to Emma from her sister-in-law Elizabeth Vignal, who was married to Emma's brother Paul. Also included are numerous letters to Lucy Vignal Borglum from her parents. Most of the correspondence between the Vignals is in French. This series also contains other family correspondence including letters between Solon and his siblings, letters between Solon's brother August and other family members including several cousins, letters between Monica and Paul, Monica and her Aunt Harriet, and her cousin George Borglum, August Borglum's son. Much of this later correspondence discusses family history.
This series includes Solon Borglum's incoming and outgoing professional correspondence. Materials dated after 1922 are Monica Borglum Davies' incoming correspondence regarding Solon's artwork and legacy. Solon's correspondence is with galleries and foundries, such as the Milch Gallery and Roman Bronze Works, concerning the sale or production of his artwork, and correspondence with people and organizations, such as Jane Wallace and Saint Mark's in-the-Bouwerie, concerning sculpture projects, and with other artists, including August Saint-Gaudens and Robert Fulton Logan. Also found is correspondence concerning the School of American Sculpture, both before and after Solon's death.
Materials addressed to Monica Borglum include letters from art galleries and museums, such as the Detroit Institute of Art, the Joslyn Art Museum, and the National Collection of Fine Arts at the Smithsonian Institution, concerning the sale or exhibition of Solon's artwork. Also included is correspondence with foundries concerning the production of Solon's sculptures, and with historical societies, individuals, and other organizations concerning the provenance, collection, or exhibition of his artwork. This series also includes correspondence from the Solon Borglum Memorial Fund and condolences to Monica on the deaths of Solon and Emma (in 1934).
Also found are calling cards, business cards, and envelopes that have been separated from their contents. This series also includes numerous notepads containing drafts of Solon's outgoing correspondence as well as drafts on loose pages.
Writings and notes include those written by Solon Borglum and others. Writings and notes by Solon Borglum include project proposals for an Alexander Hamilton statue, the "Bells of History" project, and a sculpture only described as "The Grille." Also found are numerous essays by Solon and lecture notes on topics such as art, material and form, specific sculptural works, and his experiences in World War I. This series also includes Solon's notes on various subjects, including the founding of the School of American Sculpture and the Benjamin Franklin Monument project, and a diary with many sketches that Solon kept in 1918 during his military service. Similarly, Solon wrote in many notebooks during his time in the military and later career. The notebooks found here include personal thoughts, quotations, names and addresses, and sketches. Researchers will also find personal notes written in Solon's address books.
Writings and notes by others include Emma Borglum's recollections on the life of Solon and their experiences together at the Crow Creek Reservation. Additional recollections on Solon Borglum are written by his daughter Monica Davies and her friend Josephine Sofio. Also found in this subseries is a lecture on Jacob Leisler, the subject of a Borglum sculpture, prepared by Monica's husband, A. Mervyn Davies, and a notebook kept by Emma's brother, Paul Vignal. Of interest are address lists and guest books for the various meetings of the Silvermine Group of Artists.
This series contains materials compiled or written by Monica Borglum Davies and her husband A. Mervyn Davies for the biography, Solon H. Borglum "A Man Who Stands Alone" (Pequot Press, 1974). Found here are numerous files of information gathered during the research process, including photocopies of materials such as correspondence, and documents from Solon's time in the military. Users should note that some of the photocopies of correspondence may overlap with material found in Family and General Correspondence (Series 2 and 3), however, many letters in this series include transcripts. Research files and notes also include lists of photographs, artwork, and students, as well as numerous loose notes, note cards and notebooks created in the process of writing the book. Also found in this series are other writings by Monica and A. Mervyn Davies giving background information and a synopsis of the biography project.
The bulk of this series consists of heavily edited drafts of the biography. One subseries contains drafts of each section of the book. Researchers should note that many draft chapters do not correspond to or have different titles from the chapters in the published version. Another subseries includes draft manuscripts. All of the manuscripts are for the Borglum biography, but the authors were using various titles, including "A Clear Spirit," and "A Quiet Victory." Many drafts are incomplete and untitled, and the end of the series contains numbered loose pages from drafts and miscellaneous draft edits and notes, all arranged in their original order. Also found are two edited book proofs.
Financial and business records contain materials documenting Solon Borglum's professional work and legacy. Financial materials include bank account books, receipts and statements, ledgers, and price lists, as well as the financial notes and ledger for the Solon H. Borglum Sculpture and Education Fund. Also found is a financial proposal for the 1905 Lewis and Clark Centennial, and an account book for the posthumous production and sales of Borglum's book Sound Construction. Business materials include contracts for sculpture projects, and copyright documentation for Sound Construction.
Oversized material housed in Box 13, Folder 2.
Oversized material from Box 8, Folder 30.
This series contains material on Solon Borglum's career and artwork, primarily posthumous exhibit materials and publications. Most of this material was collected by Solon's daughter Monica Borglum Davies and includes not only material on Solon, but also documents about Gutzon, Solon's assistant Paul Manship, and the Silvermine Group of Artists. Included are auction catalogs, exhibition announcements, catalogs, brochures, event programs, and informational booklets. Also found are numerous news and magazine clippings spanning over 120 years, magazines featuring large articles on Solon, newletters, press releases, reports, and other publications as well as published images of Solon and reproductions of his artwork. This series also contains copies of the art textbook Solon wrote, Sound Construction, as well as the Supplement for this work published at the same time.
Oversized material housed in Box 13, Folder 3.
Oversized material housed in Box 13, Folder 4.
Oversized material digitized with Box 13, Folder 5.
Oversized material housed in Box 13, Folder 6.
Oversized material housed in Box 13, Folder 7.
Oversized material housed in Box 13, Folder 8.
Oversized material housed in Box 14.
2 copies; oversized material housed in Box 14.
Oversized material housed in Box 14.
Oversized material from Box 9, Folder 39.
Oversized matrial from Box 9, Folder 41.
Oversized material from Box 9, Folder 44.
Oversized material from Box 9, Folder 45.
Oversized material from Box 9, Folder 46.
Oversized material from Box 9, Folders 49-50.
Oversized material from Box 9, Folder 52.
Oversized material digitized with Box 9, Folder 53.
Oversized material from Box 9, Folder 54.
Oversized material digitized with Box 9, Folder 55.
Found here are family and personal photographs, and numerous photographs of artwork by Solon Borglum. The bulk of the family and personal photographs date from Solon's adult life and include images of Solon in various settings, such as formal portraits taken throughout his career, photographs of him with his artwork, as a student and teacher in sculpture class, in Paris during his military service, with his family and friends at his farm, Rocky Ranch, and of Solon and Emma at the Crow Creek Reservation. Also found are Borglum family portraits, individual portraits of many family members including Solon's brothers Gutzon and August, and his parents James and Ida, as well as group portraits of the whole family. This subseries also includes photographs of Emma, Monica, her daughter Gwynneth, and Emma's brother Paul Vignal and his wife. Other personal photographs in this series are images of Solon at ranches and as a Boy Scout troop leader, exteriors and interiors of his various studios and residences, photos from an exhibition at the Union League Club in New York, and other miscellaneous and unidentified portraits and snapshots.
Photographs of Artwork include files on individual works of art by Solon Borglum, as well as files for his various types of artwork, such as animal sculptures, portrait busts, and monuments and installations. Many of the files may include images of the artwork at the studio, as well as being unveiled or installed in public. Folders are arranged alphabetically by title of work, followed by categories of artwork and artwork by others. Photographs in this subseries have not been digitized.
Oversized material housed in Box 13, Folder 9.
Oversized material housed in Box 13, F10
Oversized material housed in Box 13, Folder 10.
Oversized material housed in Box 13, Folder 11.
Oversized material digitized with Box 13, Folder 65.
Oversize material digitized with Box 10, Folders 24-25
Oversized material from Box 10, Folder 27.
Oversized material housed in Box 13, Folder 12.
Oversized material housed in Box 13, Folder 13.
Oversized material housed in OV 15.
Oversized material housed in Box 13, Folder 14.
Oversized material housed in OV 15.
Oversized material housed in Box 13, Folders 15 and 16.
Oversized material from Box 10, Folder 40.
Oversized material from Box 10, Folder 43.
Oversized material from Box 11, Folder 5.
Oversized material from Box 11, Folder 21.
Oversized material from Box 10, Folder 45.
Oversized material from Box 10, Folder 47.
Oversized material from Box 10, Folder 64.
Oversized material from Box 10, Folders 67-68.
Oversized material from Box 10, Folder 69.
Oversized material from Box 11, Folder 1.
Oversized material from Box 11, Folder 16.
Oversized material from Box 11, Folder 19.
Oversized material from Box 11, Folder 21.
4 glass plate negatives housed in MGP 1
1 glass plate negative housed in MGP 3
Artwork contains many sketches by Solon Borglum, such as figure sketches for some of his sculptural works and for his book Sound Construction, as well as sketches he made on tracing paper, mostly of architectural design elements. This series also contains Emma Borglum's drawings of jewelry designs and sketches by Gutzon Borglum, including a sketch of Solon, possibly drawn while they were working together in 1894. Also found are original etchings for Silvermine Group of Artists Exhibition Announcements, a large illuminated poem made for Solon and Emma at the time of their marriage by writer William Theodore Peters, a military cartoon, and other artwork by unidentified artists. The folder of miscellaneous artwork by others includes etchings by artists Robert Fulton Logan and Frank Sohn.
Oversized material housed in Box 13, Folder 19.
Oversized material housed in Box 13, Folder 20.
Oversized material digitized with Box 12, Folder 10.
Oversized material digitized with Box 12, Folder 11.
Oversized material digitized with Box 12, Folders 12-14.
Oversized material digitized with Box 12, Folder 17.
Oversized material from Box 12, Folder 19.
27 photos of Bosa, 91 of his work, and 8 of his family.
A panel discussion with Robert Kenney, James Lawrence, Michael McKinnell, and John Meyer, moderated by Charles Withers, on the history of Boston City Hall's Government Center.
Letters to Bostick as Secretary of the Detroit Institute of Arts.
REEL D8, fr.525: A letter from Charles Culver, November 8, 1955, regarding his gift to the DIA of a Robert Dick painting "Moonlight," and offering biographical information and reminiscences on Dick as well as his own painting.
REEL D9, fr. 637: A letter from Paul McPharlin 1947 Oct. 1, mentioning a book design.
REEL D10: Three letters from Abraham Rattner, October 1955, regarding Rattner's work as a juror for a show at the DIA; a letter from Irene Jungwirth, Dec. 1955, in which she discusses her work and thanks Bostick for his support; and a letter, March 1956, from Zubel Kachadoorian telling Bostick of his "Rome Academy Grant."
The Henry Botkin papers measure 3 linear feet and date from circa 1927-1982. Biographical materials include multiple interviews with Botkin, one of which is for the Today Show, membership cards for the Audubon Artists and Artists Equity Association, and Botkin's resume. Correspondence is with George Gershwin, Syracuse University, and others. Writings include autobiographical writings, lectures and speeches by Botkin, artwork reviews of Botkin's art, and miscellaneous writings by others. Personal business records consist of materials regarding various professional organizations, materials on Judy Cimaglia, materials on Botkin's daughter Toinette (Botkin) Laurent, and other business records. Printed material includes exhibition announcements and catalogs, press releases, and picture postcards. Photographic material consists of photographs of Botkin, his wife Rhoda Lehman, friends and family, and various exhibitions. Artwork includes pieces by Botkin and others.
Biographical material includes multiple interviews with Henry Botkin, membership cards for the Audubon Artists and Artists Equity Association, Botkin's resume, and a booklet of telephone numbers.
Correspondence is with George Gershwin, Syracuse University regarding Botkin's papers and exhibitions, and others.
Writings include autobiographical writings, lectures and speeches, and notebooks, as well as reviews of Botkin's artwork and miscellaneous writings by others.
Personal business records include materials regarding various professional organizations, materials on Judy Cimaglia, materials on Botkin's daughter Toinette (Botkin) Laurent, a gallery floor plan, and miscellaneous business records.
Printed material includes exhibition announcements and catalogs, materials regarding George Gershwin, press releases, and picture postcards from various locations.
Photographic material includes photographs of Henry Botkin, Rhoda Lehman, George Gershwin, family and friends, artwork, and various museums and exhibitions.
Artwork includes a sketch and collage by Botkin and drawings, paintings, and sketches by others.
The papers of painter and muralist Louis Bouché measure 5.9 linear feet and date from 1880 to 2007. Found within the papers are biographical material; personal correspondence, including correspondence from the extended Bouché family; writings; financial records; printed material; four scrapbooks; artwork; and photographs of Bouché, his family and friends, and his work.
Biographical material consists of family certificates and Bouché's curriculum vitae.
The bulk of the correspondence consists of letters from Bouché 's father to his mother, and of letters addressed to his daughter, Jane. These include letters Louis and Marian wrote to Jane, along with letters from her first husband, William Pène du Bois, during the early days of their courtship and marriage. The handful of letters directly addressed to Louis and Marian include correspondence from Peggy Bacon and Katherine Schmidt.
Writings include drafts of Bouché's autobiography, eight journals kept by Marian Bouché detailing their travels in the United States and abroad, four reminiscences of Bouché written by others, and a poem written by Peggy Bacon.
Personal business records consist of two ledger books, lists, and receipts documenting inventory and records of sales.
Printed material consists of clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and periodicals related to Bouché's work. There are also three books from Bouché's personal library and exhibition announcements and catalogs from Walt Kuhn's Penguin Club and Wanamaker's Gallery.
Two scrapbooks include clippings, photographs, and printed material related to Bouché 's career. One scrapbook includes material related to the extended Bouché family, and one scrapbook consists of reproductions of works of art by modern French artists.
Photographic materials include ten photograph albums. Three are of Louis, Marian, and Jane, three are of Jane and her family, and four are of Louis' parents and sister's family. There are also loose prints and negatives of Bouché, his family and friends, and works of art.
Artwork consists of sketches and drawings by Louis, Jane, Henri, and Ernest Bouché. Additional sketches by Peggy Bacon, Alexander Brook, Jo Davidson, and Reginald Marsh are also included.
Biographical material consists of Louis Bouché's curriculum vitae and extended Bouché family marriage announcements, certificates, and death notices.
The bulk of the correspondence consists of personal letters from Bouché's family, letters to Louis and Marian, and letters to Jane Bouché Strong.
This subseries includes a handful of personal and professional letters addressed to Louis and Marian Bouché, including letters from artist friends Peggy Bacon, Katherine Schmidt, Louis Elshemius, and Marcel Duchamp. Love notes from Marian to Louis are also included.
The bulk of this correspondence consists of letters from Henri to Marie Bouché. The subseries also includes letters from Henri and Marie to their children, from Louis' grandmother to the family, and from Louis and Claire to their parents.
This subseries includes numerous letters from Louis and Marian; letters from Jane's first husband, William Pène du Bois, during the early days of their courtship and marriage; letters from the Bacon and Alexander families; letters from academics researching Bouché and other modern painters; and letters regarding the gift of five Belmaison glass panels to the Newark Museum.
Includes letters from Ira Glackens, Jo Davidson, and Kraushaar Galleries
Writings include the final draft of Bouché's autobiography, along with the original first draft and various drafts compiled and edited by Jane Bouché for possible publication. The autobiography covers Bouché's family and early life, education in France and the Art Students League, friendship with Alexander Brook, military service, the Penguin and Whitney Clubs, his courtship of Marian, their honeymoon and travels, his early art career at Washington Square South, his work for Wanamaker's, his work as a muralist, vignettes on Woodstock, artist friends, art projects, his Guggenheim fellowship, and thoughts on art and teaching.
There are also 8 journals kept by Marian Bouché detailing her and her husband's travels in the United States and abroad from 1933 to 1963. The journal covering trips to Europe, North Stamford, and Haiti includes a handwritten draft of poems Marian and Peggy Bacon wrote for each other in response to the birth of Marian's child. Other writings include reminiscenes of Louis Bouché written by Peter Blume, Alexander Brook, Robert Coates, and Cyril Wright; and a poem to Louis Bouché by Peggy Bacon.
Personal business records consist of two ledger books, lists of artwork, and receipts documenting the inventory, dimension, and sales of artwork.
Printed material consists of three coffeetable art books from Bouché's personal library; clippings, exhibition announcements, catalogs, and periodicals related to Bouché's work; and exhibition catalogs from Wanamaker's Gallery, which Bouché managed.
The series also includes a party invitation designed by Jules Pascin and materials from Walt Kuhn's Penguin Club, including exhibition announcements, party invitations, catalogs, a poster designed by Alfred Frueh, and a Club announcement for a stag dinner in honor of Horace Brodzky.
Oversized material housed in Box 6, Folder 1
Oversized material housed in Box 6, Folder 2
Oversized material housed in Box 6, Folder 3
Oversized material housed in Box 6, Folder 4
Two scrapbooks include clippings, photographs, and printed material related to Bouché's career. One scrapbook documents the history of the extended Bouché family, including Ernest, Henri, and Claire, compiled by Marie Bouché. It includes clippings, photographs, catalogs, written memoirs, geneology charts, and drawings by Jane Bouché and Claire's son Peter. The final scrapbook consists of reproductions of works of art by Pierre Bonnard, Edouard Vuillard, Toulouse-Lautrec, Edgar Degas, and Chaim Soutine.
Oversized material housed in Box 7
Oversized material housed in Box 8
Photographic materials include ten photograph albums. Three are of Louis, Marian, and Jane, three are of Jane and her family, and four are of Louis' parents and sister's family. There are also loose prints and negatives of Bouché, his family and friends, and copyprints of works of art, including works of art that were destroyed. Included in the loose prints of Bouché are photographs taken by Carl Van Vechten, Hal Phyfe, Herbert Gehr, and Drix Duryea.
Oversized material housed in Box 9
Oversized material housed in Box 10, Folder 1
Oversized material housed in Box 10, Folder 2
Oversized materials housed in Box 10, Folder 2
Artwork consists of sketches and drawings by Louis; a childhood collection of drawings by Jane; watercolors, etchings and monographs by Henri; and a pencil sketchbook of landscape scenes by Ernest Bouché. Additional sketches by Peggy Bacon, Alexander Brook, Jo Davidson, and Reginald Marsh are also included.
Oversized material housed in Box 10, Folder 3
Correspondence, photographs, writings, sketches, drawings, paintings, and printed material.
REELS 1880-1882: Extensive correspondence with Bowden's wife, Lois; letters from Paul Bransom, Imogen Cunningham, Hi Hirsch, Hans Hofmann, Robert Johnson, George McNeil, George Post, James Schevill, Hassel Smith, Brett Weston, and Edward Weston; notes and writings on photography and art; sketches, drawings, and paintings; business papers and business correspondence from museum and gallery directors including Edward Steichen, Fred Hobbs, Charles Campbell, Minor White, and others; catalogs, clippings, and other printed materials.
REEL 1885: Ca. 500 photographs, mostly by Bowden, including photos of George Abend, Al and Frances Bernstein, Richard and Pat Bowman, M. Carles, Walter Chabrow, Imogen Cunningham, Willem de Kooning, Vic and Jeanne Di Suvero, Loyola and Ed Fourtane, Mrs. Gibson, Grabhorn, Robinson Jeffers, Aristodemos Kaldis, Lee Krasner, Darius Milhaud, Gordon Onslow-Ford, Phylis and Bob Pauey, Jackson Pollock's studio, Otis Oldfield, George Post, Kenneth Price, Ad Reinhardt, Kenneth Rexroth, Serge Trubach, Edward and Brett Weston, Yvor Winters, Wilfred Zogbaum, and Aldous Huxley. Also included are photographs Bowden, Bowden's family, his wife, Lois, nudes, his works, and exhibits.
Correspondence, photographs, writings, scrapbooks, sketchbooks, awards and printed material.
REEL D295: Correspondence with buyers, museum curators, and students, and with Irving Berlin, George A. Dondero, Robert Philipp, and Malcolm Vaughan; drafts of articles; scrapbooks; photographs of Brackman's paintings; clippings; and other publications.
REELS 2339-2340: Biographical data, with typescript of Kristin Smith's 1968 unpublished essay on Brackman; correspondence, including letters from Irving Berlin, Huntington Hartford, Harold L. Ickes, Robert Philipp, John D. Rockefeller, David O. Selznick, and others; printed material, including newspaper clippings, magazine articles, reproductions, exhibition catalogs, and announcements; awards; 2 scrapbooks, 1930-1952; and 8 undated sketchbooks.
REEL 2380: Photographs, including personal photographs of Brackman, his friends, his students; of Herbert Turner, his home, his school, and studio; and photographs of Brackman's works of art.
UNMICROFILMED: Writings by Brackman for his lectures; typescripts and a copy of BRACKMAN: HIS ART AND TEACHING by Kenneth Bates; and printed material including newspaper clippings, by-laws for the "Royal Society for the Encouragement of Arts Manufacturers and Commerce," London, and the "Royal Society of Arts," London, and a 1957 edition of the journal, THE ARTIST.
Reel LA10: Correspondence and papers, 1882-1955, including letters received; typed copies of letters to his daughter, Mrs. Edward Dufner, and to friends; an autobiography of his boyhood (to age 13); and an incomplete set of BRADLEY HIS BOOK. Included are letters from Bliss Carman, Edward Bok, Maxfield Parrish, Daniel Frohman, Bruce Rogers, Herbert Stuart Stone, Louise Imogen Guiney, Arthur Truscott, Royal Cortissoz, Edmund Dulac, Minnie Maddern Fiske, William Randolph Hearst, Jr., Thomas Cleland, and others.
Reel 689: Papers, 1906-1962, including 54 clippings, four photographs of Bradley, 103 drawings and letter designs, 21 articles and other printed material about him, and 7 printed articles, etc., by him, including a play entitled, "Spoils." In addition, there are approximately 30 publications designed by him, and other samples of his work.
The papers of wildlife illustrator, painter, and cartoonist Paul Bransom measure 10.1 linear feet and date from 1862 to 1985. Almost half of the collection is comprised of personal and professional correspondence. Also found in the papers are biographical essays, certificates and awards, memorabilia, writings and notes, business files, bibliographies, an artwork inventory, exhibition catalogs, clippings, printed illustrations, pamphlets, photographs, scrapbooks, and original artwork.
The correspondence is particularly rich in documenting Bransom's early career as an illustrator, and his relationships with authors, art editors, and publishers from the 1900s to the 1940s. Correspondence also contains a wealth of cards, many of which bear reproductions or original artwork by his many artist friends. Correspondence often bears notes made by Bransom about the correspondent. Further documentation of Bransom's career is found in Notes and Writings, including narrative writings and lists of artwork and contacts; and in Personal Business Records, which contain records of transactions with various clients and galleries, as well as bibliographies of works illustrated by Bransom, and an art inventory created posthumously by Mario Cesar Romero.
Printed materials include exhibition records, which are often annotated, and copies of Bransom's illustrations and cartoons as they appeared in print. Also found are clippings about Bransom and other artists he knew; newsletters, pamphlets, and other materials related to organizations with which he was involved; and a copy of his book on animal drawing technique. Photographs depict Bransom, his childhood and family, homes and studios, friends, travels, and other events. Many of the photographs bear identifications by Bransom. The collection has a voluminous Artwork series, which includes two sketchbooks and hundreds of original sketches, drawings, and designs by Bransom, as well as a series of prints and original artwork by others.
Biographical materials include notes, essays, and pamphlets and other ephemera related to Bransom's life and career. Also found are a passport, various awards, certificates of merit, and maps showing Bransom's property. A menu from the Café des Beaux Arts from New Year's Eve, 1904, is autographed by Bransom's artist friends, including J.D. Allen, Rudolph Dirks, F. Opper, James Swinnerton, Gus Mager, H.A. McGill, and T.S. Sullivant, among others. A file on Bransom's grandfather contains financial notes and receipts, an undated letter, and a newspaper item related to his death.
Additional biographical notes and essays about other artists Bransom knew can be found in Notes and Writings.
This series includes personal and professional correspondence of Paul Bransom from the beginning of his career until the end of his life. Correspondence includes letters from other artists, art directors and editors, writers, nature and wildlife conservators and zoologists, curators, collectors, printers, engravers, family, and friends. Also found are letters Bransom wrote to his wife, Grace Bond Bransom, early in their relationship, and scattered correspondence to Grace Bond Bransom and Althea Bond, Bransom's niece and heiress. Many illustrated letters are found among the correspondence, including several lavishly illustrated letters from Charles Sarka. Photographs, clippings, and other enclosures such as membership cards, are scattered throughout the series.
Correspondence is divided into three groups: that between Paul Bransom and his wife, general correspondence, and cards. General correspondence is arranged chronologically except for occasional instances where letters were originally grouped together by author or subject. Drafts and carbon copies of outgoing letters written by Paul Bransom are interfiled with general correspondence, and undated drafts are filed at the end of the general correspondence. Greeting cards with significant written messages are interfiled with general correspondence, and cards without messages are arranged alphabetically at the end of the series. Many of the cards are made with original artwork, as indicated in the folder notes below.
General correspondence contains letters and records of transactions with Bransom's publishing clients, as well as letters from many authors whose stories Bransom illustrated, especially between the 1900s and the 1940s. Among the authors are Albert Payson Terhune, Donald Culross Peattie, J. Frank Dobie, Dorothy Cottrell, Attilio Gatti, Charmian London (wife of Jack London), and Herbert Sass. Artists represented in Bransom's correspondence include Charles Sarka, Joe Back, Walter Biggs, Patricia Bott, Chen Chi, John Clymer, Paul Fair, Charles Hargens, Bob Kuhn, Dorothy and Gertrude Lathrop, Bob Lougheed, George McLean, Ugo Mochi, Bill and Rachel Scott, Donald Teague, and Clarence Tillenius.
Letters and envelopes are often annotated by Bransom giving the full name of the author and sometimes the nature of their relationship or other biographical information. Additional correspondence can be found in Personal Business Records, and some drafts of outgoing letters are found in the notebooks filed in Notes and Writings.
See Appendix for a list of selected correspondents from Series 2.
(Contains illustrated letters)
(Contains original artwork)
(Contains cards made by Harry Beckhoff, Frank Bensing, Ed Bierly, Walter Biggs, Pat Bott, Bob Brikerhoff, and Joseph Burgess)
(Contains cards made by Harrison Cady, Bob Carroll, Charles Chapman, John Clymer, Kent Day Coes, Farrell Collett, Elizabeth Cowan, and a photograph of John Clymer)
(Contains cards made by Bob Davenport, Joe Davis, Gladdys Davis, and Charles DeFeo)
(Contains cards made by Rosalie Edge)
(Contains cards made by Bill Freeman, O.E. von Feuher, and Elisabeth Fulda)
(Contains cards mdae by Rube Goldberg, Frank Gervasi, and Al Gilbert)
(Contains original artwork)
(Contains cards made by Grant Hagen, Charles Hargens, John Hamburger, Helen Ireland Hays, Lynn Bogue Hunt, and photographs of Frank and Brownie Hibben)
(Contains cards made by Helen Ingliss, Joseph C. Jones, Anders Jordahl, and Hazel Brill Jackson)
(Contains cards made by Phil Kappel, Isabelle Knobloch, and Les Kouba)
(Contains cards made by Jack Lehrer, Dorothy Lathrop, William R. Leigh, Kay Lichty, and an original drawing by Bob Lougheed)
(Contains original artwork)
(Contains cards made by Joseph Margulies, Dorcas MacClintock, Don Miller, and Olaus Murie)
(Contains cards made by A. Henry Nordhausen)
(Contains cards made by Karl Plath and O. Plancy)
(Contains original artwork)
(Contains cards made by Lloyd Sandford, Tona Soglow, Ben Stahl, the Spiro's, and Dolf Swing)
(Contains cards made by Don Teague, Anice and Albert Payson Terhune, and Ed Tomasieriez)
(Contains cards made by Pietro Valerio, Vilma and F. Warren, Ernest Watson, Katherine Lane Weems, Grant Hagen, and William Zimmerman)
This small series includes a diary, notebooks, essays, lists, notes, and other writings by Paul Bransom and others. The diary, with notes, writings, and sketches, was written during a hunting expedition Bransom made with writer J. Frank Dobie in 1927. Other writings in this folder include an eight page essay recounting the hunt by G.W. "Dub" Evans. Four notebooks contain miscellaneous notes on travel expenses, contact information, drafts of outgoing letters, and pressed flowers. Biographical, historical, nature, and art writings include brief essays and notes for talks by Bransom and others about his career, the lives of fellow artists, animals and animal art, and a satirical essay about modern art. Notes by and about Walt Kuhn include an essay by Bransom, comments by Bransom on a journal article about Kuhn, and a sketchbook with visual notes made by Kuhn during a discussion with Paul and Grace Bransom.
Notes on animals and artwork include research notes, ideas for illustrations and stories, and technical notes about artwork. Also found are lists of private collectors of Bransom's work and notes on members of the Jackson Hole, Wyoming, community. Miscellaneous notes concern books, music, spiritual musings, inspirational quotes from published sources, and notes related to items in this collection which have become separated from those items. A folder of poems inspired by Bransom and his paintings, many of which were written by friends for Bransom's birthday, is also present, as well as a photocopy of an inventory from an unknown repository of papers related to H.C. Pitz.
Additional biographical notes and writings concerning Bransom and his career can be found in Biographical Materials. Additional notes pertaining to professional projects and financial matters can be found in Personal Business Records.
This series includes records relating to Bransom's illustration and advertising clients, galleries where he exhibited, other Bransom projects, bibliographies and inventories of Bransom's artwork, and records of projects of family members. Arrangement is alphabetical by gallery or business entity, with special subjects placed at the end of the series. Types of records include correspondence, receipts, lists, notes, contracts, pamphlets, and brochures.
Gallery and illustration client records document exhibitions, consignments, and sales of Bransom's artwork. The files for Teton Artists Associated also contain Bransom's designs for brochures and advertisements, proofs of printed materials, a contract, and lists of students. The file for Northwest Schools contains a contract for the production of an instructional book on animal drawing by Bransom, as well as correspondence related to the project. For a copy of that publication, see Printed Materials.
Also found are bibliographies compiled by Seth Mattingly and Helen Ireland Hays, and an artwork inventory compiled by Mario Cesar Romero after Bransom's death. Drafts of Mattingly's bibliographies are found with his correspondence in Series 1. Additional correspondence related to Bransom's business activities, including magazine and book illustrations, exhibitions, and other business with entities listed in this series can also be found in the Correspondence series. Exhibition Catalogs and other printed materials related to exhibitions can be found in Printed Materials.
(Contains records from Arden Studios, Inc., The James Ford Bell Museum of Natural History in Minnesota, the Fulton County Museum, and the Brandywine River Museum)
This series includes catalogs and announcements for exhibitions; reproductions of Bransom illustrations and cartoons from magazines, newspapers, and calendars; newspaper and magazine articles about Bransom and others; programs from musical events in which Bransom performed; newsletters, brochures, membership directories, mailings, and invitations from organizations in which Bransom was involved; pamphlets and other printed matter about Jack London and other people known to Bransom; and a copy of Bransom's art technique book, Animal Drawing.
Catalogs are for individual and group exhibitions of Bransom's artwork, some of which are annotated with prices and other information. Printed price lists, press releases, and invitations are also found. Selected catalogs of exhibitions by Walt Kuhn and his pupil, Lily Cushing are filed under their names.
Many of Bransom's illustrations for magazine stories are also found, including stories by writers Albert Payson Terhune and Jim Corbett. An early newspaper cartoon series by Bransom called "News From Bugville" is represented here by over 200 printed copies of cartoons. An original drawing from Bransom's cartoon series is found in Artwork.
Clippings include biographies, reviews of exhibitions, book reviews for books illustrated by Bransom, obituaries, and other news related to Bransom and his friends. Additional clippings are found in Scrapbooks, and scattered clippings are found in Correspondence.
Printed material related to organizations ranges from a single item to long runs of newsletters or catalogs, with occasional annotations by Bransom and others. The Salmagundi Club and the Society of Animal Artists have the widest range of materials, including newsletters, announcements, exhibition documentation, membership directories, and other mailings. See also Personal Business Records for original records of Bransom's transactions with some of the organizations listed here.
(Includes materials related to Bear Paw Ranch; the Junior Literary Guild; the Burroughs Nature Study Club; The Eccentric Club of Gloversville, NY; the National Advertising Art Center, Inc.; the National Amateur Art Festival; the National Society of Arts and Letters; Weber State College; the Boone and Crockett Club; and the International Platform Association)
This series includes photographs depicting Bransom, his family, other artists, pets and other animals, homes and studios, landscapes, trips, events, and works of art. Many of the photographs in this series have identifications on them, some of which appear to have been made retrospectively by Bransom. Other identifications appear to be in the handwriting of his niece and heiress, Althea Bond; and Mario Cesar Romero, who signed his notes "MCR."
Wherever possible, photographs which appear to have been taken and printed together have been filed together. Numerous photographs of Bransom painting and drawing are found in this series. See folder notes below and notes on the photographs themselves for additional information about content.
The slide album has been re-housed for preservation, but the original arrangement of the slides in their sleeves has been preserved. Images in the slide album include Paul and Grace Bransom, their Canada Lake and Jackson Hole homes, landscapes in the Adirondack and Teton mountains, Bransoms' friends, Paul Bransom painting in the studio and outside, and nature photographs labeled "studies for paintings." Most of the slides are Kodachrome and have suffered very little fading.
Additional photographs are found in Scrapbooks, and scattered photographs are found in Correspondence. See the series description for further details.
(Also pictured is Bransom's sister Mary)
(Includes photograph taken in Bransom's 23rd St. Studio)
(Among those identified are T.S. Sullivant, James Swinnerton, H.A. Magill, Marjorie Organ, T.S. Allen, Gus Mager, Lynn Bogue Hunt, Arthur Fuller, and Bob Kuhn)
(Pictured are Gus Mager, Walt Kuhn , Bill Scott, Bud Shannon, Charles Leon, Lynn Bogue Hunt, Raechell Scott, Joe Back, Clarence Tillenius)
(Bransom pictured with E.H. Taylor and J. Frank Dobie)
(Pictured are the Bransoms and Toby and Marion Vreeland)
See also Scrapbooks
(Includes photo of Bransom painting in studio)
(Bransom and others pictured)
(Includes photographs of garden sculpture by Leo Lentelli and a series of photographs by Herbert Lawson)
(Bransoms pictured)
(Bransoms and others pictured)
(People pictured in folders 2, 3 and 4)
This series consists of two scrapbooks containing clippings, photographs, and exhibition announcements. Neither volume appears to have been made by Bransom himself, and both were part of the donation of Mario Cesar Romero, who had access to the Bransom estate while curating a retrospective exhibition of Bransom's artwork and creating the artwork inventory in Series 4.
Volume I consists entirely of printed material, mostly clippings and one advertisement for a book illustrated by Bransom, The Argosy of Fables (1921). Clippings also include multiple obituaries. Many of the items in Volume I are duplicated in the Printed Material series.
Volume II contains exhibition announcements (1929-1931), clippings (1920s-1970s), and photographs (circa 1886-1970). Original photographs have been removed from the scrapbook as a preservation measure and to provide access to Bransom's notes on the backs of photographs. Pages containing the removed photographs have been replaced by photocopies reflecting their original arrangement in the scrapbook. Many of the photographs found in this scrapbook are not found elsewhere in Bransom's papers. Identifications on the scrapbook pages were made by Mario Cesar Romero.
(Clippings, 1906-1982)
(Original scrapbook pages containing clippings, exhibition announcements, photographs, and newspaper cartoons dated circa 1886-1979)
(photographs of Paul and Grace Bransom, photographs of works of art by Paul Bransom, photograph of oil on canvas portrait of Bransom by Dan Green)
(Childhood photographs of Paul Bransom; family members; nanny; Paul and Grace Bransom in Canada Lake, NY home and studio; Paul Bransom painting)
This series includes sketchbooks, sketches, drawings, designs, illustrations, cartoons, and prints by Paul Bransom, and artwork of various media by other artists. Most of the artwork depicts wildlife and other animals, although drawings of landscapes, flora, and people are also found.
Sketches, drawings, and designs encompass the bulk of this series. Three sketching expeditions from the 1920s are represented. The drawings from the Green Tree racehorse stables in Saratoga Springs are accompanied by an essay recounting the trip. Additional material related to the New Mexico Lion Hunt is found in Notes and Writings. The remainder of miscellaneous sketches, drawings, and designs in this series depict a wide range of subjects in various media, from preliminary rough sketches to very finished drawings. Subjects include domestic animals, North American and African wildlife, flora, landscapes, and narrative subjects for illustrations, usually also with animal subjects. Included are works in charcoal, pencil, pastel, watercolor, and ink.
Prints by Bransom include a series of 26 monotype prints, lithographs, and several woodblock prints, some of which are for bookplates and Christmas cards.
Many of the works of art in this series are signed and/or annotated by Paul Bransom. A few have an inventory number written on them beginning with "E/B," which refers to the artwork inventory created by Mario Cesar Romero. Additional documentation of this inventory project is found in Personal Business Records. Bibliographic information about Bransom's illustrations is also found in Personal Business records. Notes listing artwork and exhibitions can be found in Notes and Writings. Additional artwork, including illustrated letters and cards, is found in Correspondence. See series descriptions for further details.
Biographical notes; a typescript of newspaper and magazine reviews of Brecher's work, 1933-1982; 39 letters received, 1933-1982 and a letter of condolence to Mrs. Brecher, 1983; newspaper and magazine clippings, undated and 1938-1979, and 3 scrapbooks, 1921-1983, containing biographical notes, photographs, correspondence, catalogs, and clippings.
One framed painting is a still life with a vase of flowers and fruit and one is a portrait of a moustached man. Both paintings are signed.
Exhibition catalogues; typescript of a lecture, "The Arts and Crafts in Retrospect in this the 150th Anniversary of the Rochester Institute of Technology," by Brennan, Dean Emeritus, and Stanley H Witmeyer, Associate Dean Emeritus, College of Fine and Applied Arts, Rochester Institute of Technology; résumés of craftsmen; a press release and other news items; and magazine articles by Brennan on American crafts and craftsmen.
The papers of the sculptor Michael Brenner measure 0.4 linear feet and date from 1888 to 1976. The collection includes letters, scrapbooks, drawings, photographs and other materials documenting Michael Brenner's career, the activities of members of the Brenner family and the colony of expatriate American artists flourishing in Paris in the early twentieth century.
Letters are written to family members and associates and include exchanges between Brenner's sister Miriam (Fanny) and her brothers Michael, Morris, Samuel, and Victor (Dave) Brenner concerning their health, family business, work, and other art-related activities. Several of Michael Brenner's letters mention his dissatisfaction with Robert Coady's handling of consignments, dealings with Mr. Kahnweiler, and exhibitions of colleagues Michel Kikoine and Pinchus Kremegne. Other correspondents include Alexandre Charpentier and (Louis) Oscar Roty.
Scrapbooks are comprised of material related to the life and career of Michael Brenner. The first scrapbook contains a photocopy of a letter written to Michael Brenner from Gertrude Stein where she describes her travels with Alice B. Toklas and mentions the bust Brenner made of her likeness. Other materials include a 1953 exhibition catalog for Chaim Soutine at Perls Galleries, letters written to Mrs. Michael Brenner concerning the sale of her husband's artwork, and photographs of Michael Brenner, Miriam Brenner, other family members, and works of art.
Photographs are of artwork and show Brenner family members, Victor Brenner and his studio, Michael Brenner with Chaim Soutine and pictures of Brenner's close friend, I. C. Rubin and Albert Einstein.
Art work is comprised of twenty-seven figure drawings.
Printed materials consists of clippings about Abraham Lincoln, reproductions of works of art, a bookplate for Marion Kean Lopez, and an essay entitled "Instead of an Introduction" by Sadakichi Hartmann praising the American landscape artist, Leon Dabo. Also found is an 1899 announcement for a "Seance Publique Annuelle," a photocopy of an article about Brenner by Cathy Turrill, a list of objects borrowed and photographed by Turrill in 1974, a photocopy of a photograph of Robert Coady, and the cover of an Avant-Garde catalog.
Other materials includes notes and a subject file on a life-long friend and physician, I. C. Rubin (1922-1975). There are letters from Rubin about his travels and photographs of Brenner and Rubin as young men, Brenner with his son, and Brenner with painter Isaac Pailes.
Letters are written to family members and associates and include exchanges between Brenner's sister Miriam (Fanny) and her brothers Michael, Morris, Samuel, and Victor (Dave) Brenner concerning their health, family business, work, and other art-related activities. Several of Michael Brenner's letters mention his dissatisfaction with Robert Coady's handling of consignments, dealings with Mr. Kahnweiler, and exhibitions of colleagues Michel Kikoine and Pinchus Kremegne. Other correspondents include Alexandre Charpentier and (Louis) Oscar Roty.
Scrapbooks are comprised of material related to the life and career of Michael Brenner. The first scrapbook contains a photocopy of a letter written to Michael Brenner from Gertrude Stein where she describes her travels with Alice B. Toklas and mentions the bust Brenner made of her likeness. Other materials include a 1953 exhibition catalog for Chaim Soutine at Perls Galleries, letters written to Mrs. Michael Brenner concerning the sale of her husband's artwork, and photographs of Michael Brenner, Miriam Brenner, other family members, and works of art.
Photographs are of artwork and show Brenner family members, Victor Brenner and his studio, Michael Brenner with Chaim Soutine and pictures of Brenner's close friend, I. C. Rubin and Albert Einstein.
Art work is comprised of twenty-seven figure drawings.
Printed materials consists of clippings about Abraham Lincoln, reproductions of works of art, a bookplate for Marion Kean Lopez, and an essay entitled "Instead of an Introduction" by Sadakichi Hartmann praising the American landscape artist, Leon Dabo. Also found is an 1899 announcement for a "Seance Publique Annuelle," a photocopy of an article about Brenner by Cathy Turrill, a list of objects borrowed and photographed by Turrill in 1974, a photocopy of a photograph of Robert Coady, and the cover of an Avant-Garde catalog.
Other materials includes notes and a subject file on a life-long friend and physician, I. C. Rubin (1922-1975). There are letters from Rubin about his travels and photographs of Brenner and Rubin as young men, Brenner with his son, and Brenner with painter Isaac Pailes.
Letter to Miss Levy (frames 363-364) and letter to Mr. King (frame 365).
Correspondence between Eugene Berman and Joseph Brewer mostly concerning Berman's work purchased by Brewer.
The collection consists of two Dorothy Bridaham scrapbooks dating from 1938 to 1964. The scrapbooks contain material concerning Bridaham's career as an art critic.
The first scrapbook volume contains clippings from the Chicago Sun and the Denver Post dating from 1938 to 1942 of art reviews written by Bridaham under the name Dorothy Odenheimer; 35 letters, 1942-1943, written in response to Bridaham's reviews; and a note outlining amended bibliographic information. A second volume contains clippings dating from 1946 to 1964, of art reviews written by Bridaham.
The scattered papers of painter Fritzi Broad measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1932 to 1977. The papers consist of books, photographs of works of art, resumes, and a mixed media scrapbook documenting Fritzi Brod's career and the Chicago art scene from the early 1920s to the early 1950s.
Found are two books illustrated by Fritzi Brod, A Child's Book of Birds and Decorative Design; photographs of works of art; two resumes; and a mixed media scrapbook.
The scrapbook contains clippings and scattered other printed materials on Brod, her activities, and the Chicago art scene. Of note are articles written by C. J. Bulliet, exhibition announcements (1932-1967), five exhibition catalogs (1938-1977) and a 1944 press release on Brod's watercolor exhibition at the Norlyst Gallery. Clippings are about events in Brod's career and include extensive coverage of early events such as the Little Gallery (which closed in 1933) and Chicago's first open air art fair in Grant Park in 1932, an event that raised much controversy. The scrapbook is equally important for information about Brod's career and art events in Chicago.
The papers of Abstract Expressionist painters James Brooks and Charlotte Park measure 18.7 linear feet and are dated 1909-2010, bulk 1930-2010. Correspondence, subject files, personal business records, printed material, and a sound recording document his painting career, interests, professional and personal activities. Also found are biographical materials, interviews, writings, and art work. The collection also includes papers of his wife, Abstract Expressionist painter Charlotte Park, regarding her painting career, personal life, activities as executor of James Brooks' estate, and some material concerning the James Brooks and Charlotte Park Brooks Foundation. There is a 1.4 linear foot addition to this collection donated in 2017 that includes 58 "week-at-a-glance" appointment books, three journals and one address/ telephone book of Charlotte Park; a hand written chronology with significant dates and notes; postcards and exhibition announcements sent to Charlotte and James; doodles; and a sketch, possibly by Don Kingman.
Biographical materials include biographical notes and documents such as copies of birth and death certificates, curricula vitae, family history. Educational records are from Southern Methodist University and documentation of flight training courses at New York University. Brooks' military service in World War II is well documented by United States Army records with related correspondence. Also found is extensive documentation of his death and funeral.
Professional and personal correspondence is addressed to Brooks, the couple, and to Charlotte Park during the later years of Brooks' life when she managed his affairs. A significant amount of correspondence is categorized as art, autograph requests, personal, and teaching; also include is general correspondence that overlaps all categories. Art correspondence with museums, galleries, collectors, artists, and friends concerns exhibitions, Brooks' work, and invitations to exhibit, speak, or serve as a juror. Of note is the correspondence with Samuel M. Kootz Gallery. The personal correspondence is mainly social, and teaching correspondence consists largely of requests that he teach in summer programs, serve as a visiting artist/critic.
Six interviews with James Brooks are in the form of published and unpublished transcripts; a seventh is a sound recording with no known transcript. Charlotte Park participates in one interview.
Writings by Brooks are statements about his work and a tribute to Ilya Bolotowsky. Among the writings by others about Brooks are a catalog essay, academic papers, and lecture; also found are a few short pieces on miscellaneous topics. Three diaries include brief entries regarding his work, exhibitions, and activities.
Subject files maintained by Brooks concerning organizations, exhibitions, mural projects, a commission and teaching document his professional activities, relationships and interests.
Personal business records concern appraisals, conservation, gifts, insurance, loans, sales, shipping, and storage of artwork. Gallery records include agreements, consignments, lists, and receipts. Also, there are accounts for lettering work and personal income tax returns.
Printed material is mostly exhibition announcements, invitations, catalogs, and checklists, as well as articles and reviews. The majority are about/mention Brooks or include reproductions of his work; some concern artist friends, former students, and others.
Artwork by Brooks consists of pencil and ink drawings, two sketchbooks, and "telephone doodles." Other artists include Adolph Gottlieb (ink drawing of sculpture), Philip Guston (three pencil drawings of Brooks), and William King (two silhouettes of Brooks).
Photographic materials (photographs, digital prints, negatives, slides, and color transparencies) provide extensive documentation of Brooks' artwork and, to a lesser extent, exhibitions. There are pictures of Brooks as a very young boy, though the most views of him date from the 1930s through 1980s, and with friends. Places include Brooks' homes and studios in Montauk, New York and the Springs, East Hampton, New York; travel to Maine, Oregon and California. Views of the Middle East from World War II show Brooks with colleagues, local people engaged in daily activities, and scenery. Also of note are a copy print of "The Irascibles" by Nina Leen, and attendees at the dedication of Flight dining in view of Brook's LaGuardia Ariport mural.
Charlotte Park papers document the professional career and personal life of the Abstract Expressionist painter, art teacher, and wife of James Brooks through correspondence, personal business records, exhibition records, printed material, and photographs. In addition, this series documents artwork in the estate of James Brooks and posthumous exhibitions. Twelve years younger than her husband, Park began handling business matters for him as he aged and developed Alzheimer's disease. She also served as his executor. In the 1990s, a curator assumed management of the artwork and loans for exhibitions. After the James Brooks and Charlotte Park Brooks Foundation was established in 2000, its director handled most business activities. Some copies of Foundation minutes and correspondence are found among Park's papers.
Among the awards and certificates are: Carnegie Institute's Pittsburgh International Exhibition 5th Prize (1952); The Art Institute of Chicago 62nd American Exhibition Logan Medal and Prize for Painting (1957) and 64th American Exhibition Harris Prize (1961); and a citation of appreciation for Flight presented by The North Beach Club, Marine Air Terminal, LaGuardia Airport (1986). Biographical documents include powers of attorney, birth and death certificates, and a letter about his 1942 divorce from Mary MacDonald. World War II military records and related correspondence provide detailed information about his service in the Middle East. Condolence letters are included among the records concerning his funeral.
Correspondence, both personal and professional in nature, is addressed to Brooks and to the couple. There is overlap between general correspondence and other categories. Art correspondence covers exhibitions, loans, commissions, projects; arrangements with museums and galleries; sales and consignments; as well as letters from friends and admirers of his work. Most personal correspondence from friends and colleagues is of a social nature. Teaching correspondence requests that Brooks consider opportunities to teach in various summer programs, participate in studio tours for students, or serve as a visiting artist/critic; also included are a few course rosters.
This series consists of published and unpublished transcripts and a sound recording of interviews with Brooks conducted for a variety of purposes. Charlotte Park participates in the 1965 Vallière interview. Also found are a list of interviews and correspondence with some of the interviewers.
Among Brooks' writings are a working list for an unidentified 1962 exhibition, statements, and a tribute to Ilya Bolotowsky. Writings about Brooks include catalog essays by Stanley Kunitz for Berry Hill and by Carter Ratcliff for Gruenebaum Gallery, a paper by Donald Judd written while studying art history with Meyer Schapiro at Columbia University, and two articles about the restoration of the LaGuardia Airport mural, Flight. Also found is the text of a lecture by Helen Weinberg, "The Iconology of Self in James Brooks Paintings," delivered at the Pollock-Krasner House and Study Center.
Although titled quite differently, each of the three volumes consists of brief entries (often daily, sometimes sporadic) that record transactions, requests, ideas and decisions about his work, exhibitions, other business matters, and activities. Volume 2 includes very few entries.
Subject files may include a wide variety of materials - correspondence, printed material, photographs, and notes - in varying combinations. Those maintained by Brooks concerning organizations, exhibitions, projects, teaching, and a trip to Europe document his activities, professional interests, and relationships.
Includes time, date, materials and media, dimensions, models, and inventory of materials.
Records costs, materials, and methods.
This series records transactions concerning Brooks' artwork – conservation, gifts, loans, sales, and shipping. Gallery records include agreements, consignments, lists, receipts, etc. Also found are personal tax returns and an account book regarding early lettering work and income.
Most printed material mentions Brooks or includes reproductions of his work; a small amount concerns other artists – friends, former students, and a few others. Articles include reviews and feature stories that appeared in newspapers and periodicals. Miscellaneous printed items consist of book jackets and calendars featuring reproductions of Brooks' paintings, conference programs, announcements of shows for which Brooks served as a juror, an exhibition prospectus and entry form, political and anti-war tracts, and advertisements for Brooks exhibitions.
Artwork by Brooks is comprised primarily of drawings in pencil and ink, loose and in two undated sketchbooks. Volume 1 is comprised of pencil sketches, mostly of figures and heads; Volume 2 consists of abstract compositions drawn in ink. Also found are "telephone doodles." Work by others consists of an ink drawing with watercolor wash by Paul Fligel inscribed to Brooks, an ink drawing of his sculpture by Adolph Gottlieb, three pencil drawings of Brooks by Philip Guston, two silhouettes of Brooks by William King, and a gouache painting on paper by an unidentified artist.
Photographic materials consist of photographs, digital prints, negatives, slides, and color transparencies. Subjects are artwork by Brooks, exhibition installations, people, places, and miscellaneous subjects.
Photographs of people include Brooks, Park, and others. Among the identified individuals are: Barry Adabody, L. Adams, Giogrio Cavallon, Julie and Peter Cochran, Sivon Conaty, Cile Downs, Betty and Julian Eisenstein, Ruth Judge, Judy Braude Kahn, Ibram and Ernestine Lassaw, Conrad and Anita Marcarelli, Sanford and Arloie McCoy, Tino and Ruth Nivola, John and Estelle Opper, Barbara Park, Syd Solomon, and the Watsons. In addition, there is a copy of Nina Leen's 1950 portrait of "The Irascibles" that appeared in Life. Also of note is a picture of unidentified attendees at a dinner at LaGuardia Airport on the occasion of the dedication of Flight.
Among the places appearing are Brooks' homes and studios in Montauk, New York, and East Hampton, New York. Views of the Middle East, taken during World War II, include Brooks and army colleagues, scenery, and views of local people engaged in daily activities. Travel pictures are of Maine, Italy, California and Oregon; those taken in Oregon include some of Park's relatives. Miscellaneous subjects are cars, pets, lettering and type.
All files may include photographic prints, digital prints, slides, negatives, and/or transparencies.
Katie and Everett at Headeck House, Charles at Fire Island (1 roll); Montauk '49, Interiors – Zackery, Beach Scenes (1 roll); Park Family (children) at Greene, New York (1 roll); Yorktown Heights, Eric and June Mose (1 roll); Untitled (5 rolls).
This series is comprised of the professional and personal papers of Charlotte Park, Abstract Expressionist painter, art teacher, wife of James Brooks and executor of his estate.
Biographical materials include notes about Park and other family members, copies of her birth certificate, and resumés.
Correspondence consists of personal and business letters addressed to Charlotte and to the couple. In addition, there is correspondence concerning James Brooks' estate, posthumous exhibitions, and other business matters. Also found are copies of the correspondence of curator Meg Perlman and of Julie Lawrence Cochran, Director of the James Brooks and Charlotte Park Brooks Foundation.
Writings by Park include 3 notebooks. Also included are a diary kept during a trip to Japan, and miscellaneous notes. Writings by others are a catalog essay on James Brooks, a poem by Stanley Kunitz, and one by Hilda Morley written for Park's 1979 show at The Laundry.
Among the subject files is documentation of Park's participation in the Art Lending Service of the Museum of Modern Art, her teaching activities, and interest in the women's movement. Other files concern The James Brooks and Charlotte Park Brooks Foundation, The Pollock-Krasner Foundation, Inc., and a James Brooks catalogue raisonné project. Exhibition files document Park exhibitions, posthumous Brooks exhibitions, and a show that included work by both.
Personal business records include inventories, price lists, conservation records, sales, inventories, and gifts of artwork documenting Park's career, Brooks estate business and management of his artwork.
Printed material consists of articles, exhibition announcements, catalogs, and miscellaneous items relating to Charlotte Park and James Brooks. Material concerning Brooks was published after his death.
Artwork consists of two ink drawings: one by Abbott Pattison inscribed "St. Charlotte to me Abbott Pattison," and an unsigned portrait of an unidentified man.
Photographic materials are photographs, negatives, slides, and color transparencies. Subjects are artwork by Park and views of a few Park exhibition installations. There are pictures of Charlotte Park alone and with friends, students, and her parents. Also found are views of the graves of various Hawkes-Park family members. A small photograph album consists of snapshots of Charlotte Park and Jim Brooks, unidentified friends, and cats.
Oversized material housed in OV 23.
The unprocessed addition, received in 2017, includes 58 "week-at-a-glance" appointment books, three journals and one address/ telephone book of Charlotte Park; a hand written chronology with significant dates and notes; postcards and exhibition announcements sent to Charlotte and James; doodles; and a sketch, possibly by Don Kingman.
Included are extensive memoirs of William Henry Fox director of the museum for over 25 years; scattered records of the Brooklyn Institute, 1823-1873; catalogs for Brooklyn Museum exhibits (4 1/2 reels) and for exhibits held in various galleries and museums, primarily in N.Y. (14 reels); brief records of the Dept. of Painting and Sculpture primarily relating to Gilbert Stuart's portrait of George Washington; records of the Dept. of Prints and Drawings, mainly regarding exhibitions, including correspondence, much of it with curator Una Johnson, correspondence with art dealers, files on artists, and statistics on exhibitions, 1936-1939; and records of the Registrar's office, 1933-1936, regarding the museum's involvement in the Federal Art Project of the Works Progress Administration, mainly the Graphic Arts Division.
Dept. of Prints & Drawings artists files relate to: Grace Albee, Josef Albers, Glen Alps, Maxil Ballinger, Leonard Baskin, Wilfred Roloff Beny, Fiske Boyd, Robert Broner, Edmond Casarella, Minna Citron, Robert Conover, Worden Day, Arthur Deshaies, Werner Drewes, Antonio Frasconi, Leon Goldin, William Gropper, Stanley William Hayter, Helen West Heller, Margo Hoff, John Paul Jones, Misch Kohn, David Lang, Ezio Martinelli, Seong Moy, Danny Pierce, Rudolph Pozzatti, Peter Sager, Louis Schanker, Karl Schrag, Susanne Suba, Maltby Sykes, Peter Takal, John Von Wicht, Sylvia Wald, Hyman Warsager, Max Weber, Toshi Yoshida, Richard Zoellner, and others.
Other correspondents of note (reels BR21-22) include John Taylor Arms, Mary Cassatt (1 letter, 1903), George Overbury "Pop" Hart, Mrs. Gaston Lachaise, Joseph Pennell (re Whistler), and a group from art dealers.
Also included are papers of and related to Austrian artist Emil Fuchs, including letters regarding commissions, a list of books and prints, and miscellany.
Papers compiled by Norma Broude, Mary Garrard, and Broude and Garrard together relating to the feminist art movement, especially the history of the Women's Caucus for Art (WCA). Files include a dossier formed by the Ad Hoc Committee of Women Artists (1972), reports, correspondence, meeting files, founding documents, surveys, committee records, conference records, newsletters, and subject files concerning "Slides of Works by Women Artists: A Sourcebook," 1974, by Garrard. Also included are subject files pertaining to various women's groups and organizations including the Washington Women's Art Center, Federation of Organizations for Professional Women, the National Museum of Women in the Arts, and the Feminist Art Institute.
The papers of sculptor and portrait painter Henry Kirke Brown measure 1 linear feet and date from 1836 to 1893. The collection includes Brown's correspondence with his wife, Lydia Louise Udall, his nephew, Henry Kirke Bush-Brown, and other family members. Also included are letters from artists George Catlin, George Fuller, Sanford R. Gifford, James Reid Lambdin, Louis Lang, Erastus Dow Palmer, Hiram Powers, Horatio Stone, and others; five news clippings; and miscellaneous notes.
Brown's lengthy letters to his wife reveal his devotion to her and the conflict he felt between his art and his personal life. He discusses his work, including progress on his statue of George Washington, located in Union Square, New York City. Letters to his family from Rome and Florence allude to his awe of Italy's monuments. Also included are letters from Washington, D.C. during Brown's tenure as a member of the U.S. Art Commission in the 1860s.
The collection includes Brown's correspondence with his wife, Lydia Louise Udall, his nephew, Henry Kirke Bush-Brown, and other family members. Also included are letters from artists George Catlin, George Fuller, Sanford R. Gifford, James Reid Lambdin, Louis Lang, Erastus Dow Palmer, Hiram Powers, Horatio Stone, and others; five news clippings; and miscellaneous notes.
Brown's lengthy letters to his wife reveal his devotion to her and the conflict he felt between his art and his personal life. He discusses his work, including progress on his statue of George Washington, located in Union Square, New York City. Letters to his family from Rome and Florence allude to his awe of Italy's monuments. Also included are letters from Washington, D.C. during Brown's tenure as a member of the U.S. Art Commission in the 1860s.
The papers of painter, sculptor, and performance artist Robert Delford Brown measure 3.9 linear feet and 7.98 GB and date from 1964-2009. The papers document his career as an artist and in particular the arts space "church" he founded in New York City, known as The First National Church of Exquisite Panic, Inc. The collection consists of biographical material, correspondence, church records, printed and digital material, photographic material, and video records of performance art. Brown's early career is documented in one scrapbook containing photographs, notes, and press materials.
Biographical material includes a career summary, one diary, one interview transcript, and two interview recordings on videocassette. Correspondence is minimal and includes four letters written by Brown and letters and postcards from others. Printed material consists mostly of books and event announcements documenting Brown's career. Photographs depict his travels in Brazil and China, artwork, and a collaborative event in Paris. Video recordings depict a solo performance art piece and three collaborative performance art events.
Records of the First National Church of Exquisite Panic, Inc. include items produced for events, such as graphics, a t-shirt, "teachings," as well as reproductions of artwork created as part of the church. Also included are founding documents and manifestos.
One scrapbook contains detailed documentation on Brown's career from 1964 to 1974. Included are photographs and press materials for his "Meat Show" event, additional records of the founding of his church, and photographs of various events and happenings at his church. People depicted in the photographs include Brown, Claes Oldenburg, and art critic Mario Amaya, among others.
Artwork includes works on paper incorporating stamps and text from around 2002 to 2008, as well as artwork documentation for ephemeral and performance artworks including Originale (1964), Out of Order Please Use Toilet Down the Hall Across the Lobby (1965), Free Striptease with Drum and Bugle Corps Accompaniment (1966), The Great Building Crack-Up (1967), Mr. Jesus Christ Contest (1972), Turd Forest (1972), and others.
Found here are interviews with Robert Delford Brown and a small amount of biographical documentation. Included are a biographical summary which consists of a brief chronology, list of performances, exhibitions, and publications regarding Brown; one diary containing brief daily entries and illustrations; and notes regarding his life written on large sheets of paper. Also found is a transcript of an interview conducted by Robert C. Morgan; videocassette recordings of an interview conducted by Francesco Conz in Verona, Italy; and recordings of an interview, "I'm a Sweet Old Man Now," conducted by Mark Bloch for Panscan TV.
Duplicate of video in Box 1, Folders 10-11
Correspondence consists of four letters written by Robert Delford Brown, letters to Brown from art dealer Eugenia Butler, and a series of postcards from artist Victoria Schultz. Also found are digital scans and printed copies of illustrated letters from friend and fellow artist H. C. Westermann.
Found here are records and items produced as part of Brown's First National Church of Exquisite Panic, Inc. Included are a certificate of incorporation, seal, various written manifestos and doctrines of the church, as well as signs, graphics, and ephemera used as part of the performances and public events. Also found are reproductions and documentation regarding Brown's series of artwork called "Another Map to Navada," created as part of his church's philosophies, as well as sheets of paper with "teachings" written in black marker.
Oversized items housed in box 5, folder 1
Oversized items from box 1, folders 23-24
Printed material primarily consists of books. Of note are books on Brown's "Collaborative Action Gluings" and "First Class Portraits," as well as a 1992 Fluxus event. Also found is an announcement for his 1964 "Meat Show" installation. One folder of miscellaneous printed material contains fliers, brochures, and exhibition announcements.
The bulk of the photographs found here depict Brown's trips to Brazil and China. Also found are photographs labeled as depicting a collaborative art project with artist Victoria Schultz and others in Paris. Slides and digital photographs depict these same subjects as well as Brown's artwork. Also of note are black and white photographs of the interior of "The Great Building Crack-Up." Researchers should note that many additional photographs are included in Series 7: Scrapbook.
Video recordings depict solo and collaborative performance art events created by Robert Delford Brown. Included is a recording of a solo performance art piece "Fried Blood." Three collaborative performance art events involved gathering the public, primarily children, to participate in activities such as pumpkin carving, balloon paintings, and creating a collaged environment out of paper.
Duplicate of a film in Box 3, Folders 19-20, and a film in Box 3, Folders 22-24.
One large scrapbook contains documentation on Robert Delford Brown's art events, happenings, and environments from 1964 to 1974. A large portion of the scrapbook documents the "Meat Show" event that Brown created in 1964. Found here are photographs of the installation, press materials, and a list of supplies needed. Also included in the scrapbook are photographs depicting Brown working on projects, events, people such as Claes Oldenburg and Mario Amaya, and interior and exterior views of "The Great Building Crack-Up." Additionally, there are newspaper and magazine clippings, press releases, event announcements, scattered letters, and documentation on the founding of The First National Church of Exquisite Panic, Inc.
Artwork includes works on paper incorporating stamps and text from around 2002 to 2008, as well as artwork documentation for ephemeral and performance artworks including Originale (1964), Out of Order Please Use Toilet Down the Hall Across the Lobby (1965), Free Striptease with Drum and Bugle Corps Accompaniment (1966), The Great Building Crack-Up (1967), Mr. Jesus Christ Contest (1972), Turd Forest (1972), and others.
A computer-printed bibliography compiled by Browne regarding his father, Byron Browne. Includes a list of works exhibited, and lists of articles, reviews, and books about Byron Browne.
Letters to Bucci, works of art, a photograph, and printed material.
Letters, postcards, and handmade holiday cards to Bucci are from artists Anna Baker, Verda Berdich, Kathleen Blackshear, Marie Hull, Dan Flavin, Hosford Fontaine, Ethel Spears, and Paul Wieghardt. Also included is one letter from Jane Terrell, cousin of Blackshear, regarding the recent deaths of Blackshear and Spears and a photograph of them in Texas,1966.
Works of art are by Bucci, and include six figure drawings with fellow student H.C. Westermann modeling, from a life drawing class at the Art Institute of Chicago, 1947-48. Printed material relates to the artists and the Allison art colony in Way, Miss., and includes newspaper clippings, exhibition catalogs and announcements, brochures, programs and illustrated calendars.
REEL P20: Correspondence, March 29, 1837-Jan. 17, 1867, including letters to Buchanan from Henry Dexter, Luigi Persico, George Washington Conarroe, John Sartain, Jacob Eichholtz, George P. A. Healy, and Rembrandt Peale, and one copy of a letter to Healy.
REEL P25: One letter to Hon. James Buchanan from Matthew Brady, Nov. 25, 1856, and two letters to Buchanan from Thomas G. Clemson, April 25 and Dec. 28, 1845. Brady sends photographs of Wheatland; Clemson was an amateur painter and collector.
The Buehr family papers date from 1880-1984 and measure 0.7 linear feet. The collection documents the lives and careers of a prominent Chicago family of artists, which included Karl Albert Buehr, his wife Mary Hess Buehr, their children Kathleen Buehr Granger and George F. Buehr, and Karl Buehr's brother-in-law, Will Hess. Found among the papers are biographical accounts, family histories, Karl Buehr's personal and professional correspondence, love letters between Karl and Mary Hess, writing by various family members, printed materials, artwork in the form of drawings by Kathleen Buehr Granger, and family and travel photographs, including two photo albums.
This series contains biographical material about all the members of the Buehr family. There are biographical sketches about Karl Buehr from five printed sources, as well as one written by Kathleen Buehr Granger. There are certificates to Karl Buehr from the National Academy of Design, the Royal Scottish Academy, and the Lycee Montaigne. Included in the series is a George Buehr resume. Mary Hess Buehr wrote a family history, "The Hess Family," and her brother Will Hess wrote a history of his family's business, the Hess Warming and Ventilating Company.
Typescript contains two cyanotypes and one photographic negative.
The bulk of the series consists of letters addressed to Karl Buehr concerning art-related matters such as exhibitions, awards, and sales of artwork. Letters addressed to Karl Buehr also include personal letters from Mary Hess Buehr before their marriage, as well as letters dating from early in their marriage. Letters written to Karl while he served in the U.S. Cavalry during the Spanish-American War are present. The series also contains letters addressed to Mary Hess Buehr, and the correspondence of Kathleen Buehr Granger and George Buehr.
This series includes Karl Buehr's handwritten essays, lectures, and notebooks on art technique. The series contains magazine articles by Mary Hess Buehr, as well as Kathleen's manuscript, "California Notes."
This series contains a variety of printed materials, including newspapers and magazine clippings from the United States and France, of which French clippings were gathered by Argus de la Presse, a French press clipping service; exhibition announcements and catalogs for both Karl and George Buehr; reproductions of Karl Buehr's artwork; students' reviews of Karl's artwork; as well as posters from exhibitions by George Buehr and Margo Hoff. Published articles by George Buehr and Kathleen Buehr Grander are also included.
Materials housed in OV 3
This series contains artwork by Kathleen Buehr Granger. Watercolors, pencil, ink, and pastel sketches depict landscapes and wildlife of the U.S. Southwest and California, and were created to illustrate her manuscript "California Notes." Original ink drawings and reproductions describe Kathleen Buehr's childhood experiences and Buehr family life in France, and were intended to illustrate her manuscript "Artists Are People Too."
The photograph series includes images of the Buehr family, the Hess family, and their distant relatives. More than one hundred photographs from Holland, including fourteen cyanotypes, provide images of peasant farm life during the late nineteenth century. Many photos are posed and some were used as studies for Buehr artwork. The Hess family photographs provide images of an industrial business in Chicago at the turn of the century.
Photographs are associated with typescript, "A Half Century of Hot Air" by William Hess, which is arranged with Series 1 and housed in Box 1, folders 4-5.
The papers of sculptor Beniamino Bufano measure 2.7 linear feet and date from circa 1910 to 1972. The collection sheds light on the artist's career through personal and professional papers, printed materials, photographic materials, and scrapbooks that contain primarily letters, clippings, and photographs.
Personal and professional papers include scant biographical materials, letters of approval and disapproval regarding the placement of St. Francis of Assisi in California, a framed letter from Bufano to Soviet Premier Nikolai Bulganin, writings by Bufano on peace, and a proposal for the San Francisco Art Commission's Open Air Art Exhibit that was drafted by Bufano while serving as commissioner. This series also includes photographs, negatives, and transparencies of Bufano, his studio, and artwork.
Printed materials include articles and clippings about Bufano's art, controversies he was involved in, and his lifestyle; reproductions of Bufano's work; travel ephemera; and miscellaneous printed materials including topics of interest to Bufano.
Scrapbooks were compiled after Bufano's death by his friend and volunteer assistant William Goetz. They include clippings and writings about Bufano, letters, writings by Bufano, press releases for unveiling ceremonies, fact sheets relating to Bufano's travels, and photographs of Bufano working, his artwork around the San Francisco area, scenes from his studio, and Bufano working with others, including Goetz.
Found here are biographical materials that include writings by others, a copy of Bufano's death certificate, and scant information about his career; letters of approval and disapproval of the placement of St. Francis in California; scant writings by Bufano on peace; and a proposal for the San Francisco Art Commission's Open Air Art Exhibit, drafted by Bufano while he was serving as commissioner. The Bulganin letter concerns Bufano's stainless steel statue, A Little Child Shall Lead Them, which Bufano hoped to have installed at the United Nations headquarters in New York as a gift from Russia. Also found here are photographs, negatives, and transparencies of Bufano, his studio, and artwork. Additional photographs can be found in Series 3, Scrapbook 3.
Found here are articles and clippings about Bufano's art, controversies, and lifestyle; reproductions of his work, particularly the cat he completed for the Press and Union League of San Francisco; travel ephemera from Italy, France, and Israel including museum brochures, maps, and other ephemera; and miscellaneous printed materials consisting of writings about art, philosophy, science, current global affairs, and other topics of interest to Bufano.
Scrapbooks include clippings and writings about Bufano, letters, writings by Bufano, press releases for unveiling ceremonies, and fact sheets related to his travels. Scrapbook 3 is mainly comprised of photographs of Bufano, his artwork around the San Francisco area, his studio, and his friend and volunteer assistant William Goetz, along with Goetz's family. The scrapbooks were compiled by Goetz after Bufano's death.
REEL N70-10 (Ca. 150 items): Correspondence, notes on room decor, sketches, bills, and obituary notices, 1933-1962. Includes photos of his studio, of the interior of Schrafft's at 181 Broadway, N.Y.C., of the Carl Hoening house in Hoboken, of wall paintings, and of Bull and his family. Correspondents include family members, contractors, and clients William E. Schrafft and Pakistani Ambassador M. A. H. Ispaphani.
UNMICROFILMED (ca. 0.6 ft.): Photographs, including some of Bull; drawings and paintings by an unidentified artist; an article about Bull; and a shell plaque.
The Dennis Miller Bunker collection of letters, an exhibition catalog, and a few photographs measures 0.4 linear feet and dates from 1882 to 1943, with the bulk of the material dating from 1882 to 1890. Most of the collection consists of letters. Letters dating from 1882 to 1889 are primarily to Bunker's friend Joseph Evans (46 letters) in New York City and discuss work, projects, his dislike of teaching, mutual interests and friends, and other topics. Four volumes of letterpress books, circa 1889-1890, contain letters to Bunker's fiancée Eleanor Hardy wherein he discusses their plans for the future, his work, his studio, friends, artists, and general news prior to their marriage in October, 1890 and his untimely death a few months later. There is also a 1943 exhibition catalog and three photographs of Bunker.
This collection contains numerous letters to Bunker's friend Joseph Evans, a painter in New York City, and a few letters to Annie Page. These letters mostly document Bunker's life prior to meeting fiancée Eleanor Hardy and date from 1882 to 1889. He writes of his activities, working at Cowles Art School, current painting projects, mutual friends, and general news. Four bound volumes of letters dating from 1889-1890 are written to his fiancée and future wife, Eleanor "Nell" Hardy. The letters document Bunker's daily life as a painter, discussing his activities, his dislike of teaching, his plans for the future, current painting projects, working in his studio, his friends and other artists, their upcoming marriage, and general news. The letters appear to end upon their marriage in October, 1890 and his untimely death a few months later.
Miscellaneous letters include two letters to his friend Charles A. Platt, a landscape architect, a letter to his mother-in-law, Mrs. Alpheus Hardy, a letter from William Dean Howells congratulating him on his wedding, and a letter of appreciation from his students at Cowles Art School. The collection also houses a catalog from the Dennis Miller Bunker exhibition in 1943 at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston and a few miscellaneous printed items. Photographs of Bunker include a portrait taken at H. G. Smith Studio Building, a photograph of him in costume, and a copy print of a photograph of him in his studio.
Biographical information, sketches, and sketchbooks and letters from Burbank to his wife, Covelle, regarding his travels in Italy.
55 sketches and two sketchbooks from Sicily and Italy, 1959 and undated; letters and postcards, ca. 1958-1959, from Burbank who signed his letters "Petey", to his wife Covelle. Also included is a list of his paintings and their owners as of 1975, provided in a letter written by his widow.
A résumé; a statement, "Case History of a Creative Urge," by Burch; and clippings and other printed material.
A diary, Jan. 1, 1931-Jan. 1, 1932, containing daily, detailed entries regarding art and personal activities; a vol., "Constitution and By-Laws of the Boston Art Club," June 1, 1914; and a sketch identified as "Cow Boy Pool, Boston Art Club," by an unidentified artist, depicting men playing billiards at the Boston Art Club.
Approximately 78 letters to Burdick from Frederic Remington, some illustrated, in which Remington discusses mutual business concerns, his art work, family, and other personal matters. Also included are photographs of Burdick and Remington families on vacation, a photograph of the interior of Burdick's house with a Remington painting on the wall, a photo of Eva Remington, a group photo of friends, and a photo of "Remington's horse"; and a clipping advertising an art competition.
A radio interview with David and Marussia Burliuk conducted in 1965 by Al Shields, for radio station WAPC. Burliuk discusses his work and reads from his poetry.
An almost complete run of COLOR AND RHYME; writings; letters; printed material; and a photograph.
Included are: 61 issues of the magazine COLOR AND RHYME, 1931-1970, edited by Burliuk and published by his wife, Marussia. (Nos. 63-65 were not published, and nos.10 and 59 were not included in the gift.) The magazine is a chronicle of Burliuk's life and activity in the field of art. Also included are a letter, 1961, from Kenneth Lloyd regarding Color and Rhyme; writings by and about Burliuk, including "The Fauves in Russia," 1965, a collection of poems, undated, and two booklets, Memories of My Father, David Davidovich Burliuk and Mother, Marussia Yelenevskaya, Who Was Always At Father's Side, by Nicholas Burliuk and Poems and Fragments, David Davidovich Burliuk, translated by Nicholas Burliuk and Henry Gilfond; a photograph of Burliuk and his father, 1946; and printed material, including exhibition catalogs and announcements, 1930-1978, clippings, 1948-1980, and postcard reproductions of Burliuk's work.
Reference materials accumulated by Burns on the history of panoramas. Included are: twenty note cards; a reprint of "Marquard Wocher and His Panorama of Thun," by H. Albert Steiger-Bay; a three-page article by Helen Lockwood Coffin, "Dioramas-Panoramas-Cycloramas"; a translation of an "Essay on the History of Panoramas and Dioramas," by Germain Bapts (27 pp.); an article "ʻMoving Picturesʼ in the Peale Museum"; and an article by Burns, "The Cyclorama of Jerusalem at Ste. Anne de Beaupré, Province of Québec, Canada."
A letter to Burroughs from Mary and Bernhard Berenson, 1915 Apr. 17; an undated letter to "Pop" Burroughs from Yasuo Kuniyoshi; and William Murrell's book YASUO KUNIYOSHI (1922) inscribed "to my dear and respectable Pop Burroughs, Yasuo Kuniyoshi." [Microfilm title: Yasuo Kuniyoshi papers]
A thirteen-page essay by Butzbach about Wayne Thiebaud, and a note, June 1, 1977, from Thiebaud thanking Butzbach for the essay.
Two letters, from John McLaughlin and Stanton Macdonald-Wright regarding their features in LIFE magazine; and an edited typescript about Billy Al Bengston, Robert Irwin, Edward Kienholz, Roger Kuntz, Stanton Macdonald-Wright, and John D. McLaughlin by Byers and published in LIFE.
Xenia Cage letters to Milton Sonday measure 0.4 linear feet and dates from 1968-1995. Included are letters, postcards, and small collages sent from Cage to Sonday. The collection also includes five cards addressed to Gillian Moss and two addressed to Lucy Block, both of whom were also curators in the Cooper-Hewitt's textile department.
Included are letters, postcards, and small collages sent from Cage to Sonday. The collection also includes five cards addressed to Gillian Moss and two addressed to Lucy Block, both of whom were also curators in the Cooper-Hewitt's textile department.
The papers of Holger Cahill (1887-1960) date from 1910 to 1993, bulk 1910-1960, and measure 15.8 linear feet. The collection offers researchers fairly comprehensive documentation of Cahill's directorship of the FAP in addition to series documenting his work as a writer and art critic. FAP records include national and state administrative reports, records of community art centers, photographic documentation of state activities, artist files, divisional records about teaching, crafts, murals, and poster work, files concerning the Index of American Design, scrapbooks, and printed material.
Biographical material includes nine typed career summaries/resumes for Cahill, dated circa 1935-1941. The resumes provide basically the same information with only minor variations in wording, with some handwritten notations and typed inserts to update the descriptions of Cahill's career through the early 1940s.
Also found here is a transcript of an interview, "Reminiscences of Holger Cahill," conducted by Joan Pring; a 1961 letter from Cahill's sister; a document entitled "Notes on the life of Holger Cahill" by Cahill's wife, Dorothy C. Miller, which provide details of Cahill's childhood and his work; and a 1988 letter from Dorothy Miller enclosing a copy of Cahill's birth certificate dated 1887. The series also includes a copy of Time from September 5, 1938, picturing Cahill on the cover and an article about his work with the WPA.
The series also includes financial records consisting primarily of receipts and balance sheets for artwork purchased and sold, many of them issued by the American Folk Art Gallery in which Cahill held a partnership with Edith Halpert and Berthe Kroll Goldsmith.
This series consists of personal and work-related correspondence (primarily incoming correspondence) between Cahill and various friends and colleagues. While a large portion of the series documents Cahill's position as Director of the FAP, it also extends beyond those years and illuminates other aspects of Cahill's career including his interest in folk and Asian art, and his work as an art critic.
There is significant correspondence with the artist Stanton MacDonald Wright between 1936 and 1950, and with the artist Irene Pereira between 1950 and 1953. The series also documents research which Cahill conducted in the late 1940s on the development of the Index of American Design for his introduction to a book on the Index by the National Gallery of Art, published by the Macmillan Company. Correspondence from 1949 provides another angle on the historical details of the FAP through lengthy correspondence documenting Cahill's criticism of William Francis McDonald's book Federal Relief Administration and the Arts (Ohio State University Press, 1969).
There is a large amount of correspondence from July 1960 comprising sympathy letters to Dorothy C. Miller following Cahill's death. Correspondence from 1977 encloses a catalog of an exhibition organized by New York WPA Artists, Inc., at the Parsons School of Design in November 1977. The exhibition, New York City WPA Art, was dedicated to the memory of Holger Cahill.
See Appendix for a list of correspondents (with the exception of those microfilmed on reel 1105) in Series 2.
This series documents Cahill's directorship of the WPA FAP from 1935 to 1943 and provides fairly comprehensive coverage of the development, operation, problems and accomplishments of FAP projects at the national and state level. Records include correspondence and memoranda, national and state reports, financial records, meeting minutes, exhibition files, printed material, scrapbooks and photographs and date from 1934 to 1970 with the bulk of the material dating from 1935 to 1943.
This subseries contains general records of the FAP including correspondence and memoranda, information on administrators, advisory committee records, employment statistics, manuals and reports.
Records relating to administrators include biographical sketches and/or photographs of the following FAP administrators: Donald Bear, Thaddeus Clapp, D. S. Defenbacher, Audrey McMahon, Eric Mose, Concetta Scaravaglione, Alexander Stavenitz, and George Thorp. The records include photos of McMahon, Mose, Scaravaglione, Stavenitz, and Thorp.
Advisory committe records include lists of committee members for the Federal Music Project, the Federal Theatre Project, and the Federal Art Project; correspondence related to the selection of members for the Fine and Applied Arts Committee of the FAP; and information (such as names, addresses and occupations) concerning members of FAP advisory committees organized by state.
General files include reports on various aspects of the FAP and general program operations and accomplishments, program descriptions and summaries, procedural documents and administrative forms. These are followed by lists of FAP projects, a notebook documenting FAP activities in the southern states and a report on the FAP's activities to 1939.
Also found here are records relating to support and criticism of the FAP, the war effort and "negro art" including memoranda, reports, a typescript of a speech by Thomas C. Parker, press releases and printed material.
This subseries contains records relating to FAP artists. Correspondence is primarily between Cahill and various artists and includes letters of recommendation written by Cahill. General records include a typescript of an interview with Edith Halpert of Downtown Galleries, a document containing case studies on the "Adjustments of Individuals" during FAP work in Michigan; and printed material. A notebook entitled "Artists Whose Loan Assignments Have Been Completed," records "loans" of artists to various states and cities in order to work on FAP projects.
All individual artist files contain a biographical sketch of the artist, unless otherwise noted. Some files also contain photographs of the artist, as indicated.
This subseries includes detailed financial records, memoranda, organizational charts and plans, and reports documenting the administration of the FAP at the national level.
A file relating to the 1939 changeover includes a typescript by George Biddle, Memorandum on a Post-War Reorganization of the Section of Fine Arts and Other Federal Art Projects, and a reprint of Art Under Five Years of Federal Patronage, also by Biddle.
Reports consist primarily of progress reports provided by Cahill and Thomas C. Parker in addition to several general reports written by Cahill, scattered field trip reports, and miscellaneous documents providing general accounts of the activities of the FAP.
General memoranda and program descriptions contain questionnaire results, descriptions of FAP programs, typescripts containing general program descriptions (possibly given as speeches or issued as press releases), and related news clippings.
Summaries of WPA art programs includes five copies of a document, "The WPA Art Program - A Summary," with hand-written notations updating the information in the Summary through 1942.
This subseries contains records documenting the administration of the FAP at the state level. It includes general correspondence and memoranda regarding state activities as well as reports of state program operations and accomplishments, field trip reports, and newsletters and bulletins from state art centers organized alphabetically by state.
This subseries contains a second set of state studies which, in addition to administrative reports, includes reports representing research and writing conducted as part of the FAP work done at the state level. The second group of reports is also arranged alphabetically by state, and then chronologically, and includes social studies conducted by members of the Federal Writers Program.
This subseries contains minutes and transcripts of WPA/FAP meetings and conferences, arranged chronologically.
This subseries documents financial allotments for the FAP program on a national and state level. It contains chronologically arranged correspondence and memoranda showing total allocations and containing lists breaking down allotments by state, as well as general correspondence related to allocations.
Allocation control cards were produced by the FAP's graphic arts division as a record of prints received in, and distributed by, the FAP's office in Washington D.C. for allocation and exhibition purposes. They give a number indicating the exhibition in which each print was included and a number indicating the total number of prints received (see General Correspondence, 1970, in this subseries). The cards are organized alphabetically by state.
Also found here are tables of financial allotment statistics, printed material related to allocations of art work and a notebook entitled Congressional and D.C. Allocations.
This subseries includes reports on various community art centers and news clippings about the art center in Curry County, Oregon.
This subseries documents the activities of FAP divisions through typescripts, an interview transcript, memoranda, printed material and copies of poster designs.
Art teaching typescripts include the following: Jacksonville Negro Art Gallery, Florida, Children's Art Gallery, Washington, D.C., Art and the Problem Child, Child Art Teaching, Saturday Morning Classes at the Kalamazoo Institute of Arts, Information Concerning District of Columbia Children's Drawings in Big Stone Gap Exhibition, The Artist Teaches, The Functions of Art Teaching in Education, The Works Program, and Child Art.
Records relating to murals include a biographical sketch of the architect William Lescaze; a typescript entitled Statistical Note on Murals; and a booklet entitled Historical Murals in the Los Angeles County Hall of Records Board of Supervisors' Hearing Room. Records relating to posters include a typescript entitled List of Visual Aid and Other Training Material Produced for Military Establishments by Missouri Graphics Phase Units, 28 copies of poster designs, and a photograph of men in a poster composition room.
The purpose of the Index of American Design was to compile a pictorial record of objects in the decorative, applied and folk arts, particularly objects of American origin. This subseries includes correspondence, memoranda, manuals, reports, typescripts, press releases, state reports primarily concerning Illinois projects, exhibition loan records, printed material and photographs of exhibitions and artwork, documenting that endeavor.
Articles and reports include documents and manuals describing the form and function of the Index, and outlining related procedures to be followed. They also include typescripts about the Index including Recording American Design, [ The Shaker Portfolio], The Derivation and History of Weathervanes, A Short History of the Weathervane, The Eagle in American Design, American Traditions for Young People, and Notes on American Carvers and Carving. Also found here are press releases, notes, a list of collectors, memoranda, Art Circular No. 3 and a reprint entitled American Popular Art as Recorded in the Index of American Design by Erwin O. Christensen.
Photographs include a bound portfolio of photographs of index plates representing artist renderings of Illinois objects, and a series of photographs depicting the process of making an index plate.
This subseries consists of reports on exhibitions, shipping receipts for artwork, news clippings, exhibition catalogs, and records relating to the FAP Exhibition of Contemporary Art at the 1939-1940 New York World's Fair.
Records of the New York World'd Fair exhibition include correspondence, typescripts, memoranda, a budget plan, a list of sculptors employed by the FAP in New York City, prospectuses for artists, a calendar of events, press releases, printed material and photographs.
This subseries contains records related to two other New Deal art projects: the Office of Emergency Management (OEM) Art Project and the Treasury Department Art Project (TDAP). Included here are one bulletin relating to the former and four letters and a series of bulletins relating to the latter.
This subseries contains printed material relating to the WPA/FAP as well as material used for publicity including transcripts of lectures and essays (some with hand-written notations), news clippings, press releases, and publications. For additional material of this type see Series 4: Writings, Lectures and Speeches and Series 8: Printed Material. Additional press releases can be found in 3.13: Scrapbooks.
This subseries contains three scrapbooks: Scrapbook I contains primarily press releases from the WPA Works Program as well as state progress reports, exhibition catalogs, and miscellaneous printed material. It includes photos of sculptor Jose Ruiz de Rivera and a New York Cityscape by Berenice Abbott. Scrapbook II contains news clippings and printed material concerning FAP conferences and the Index of American Design. Scrapbook III contains news clippings, exhibition catalogs and miscellaneous printed material. It also contains six photos of art centers and exhibitions, six photos of art classes and seven photos of artwork.
This series begins with photographs of WPA artists, regional directors, and art administrators. The individuals pictured include: Lucienne Bloch, Karl Knaths, Donald J. Bear, Max Spivak, Increase Robinson, F. C. Harrington, Russell C. Parr, George G. Thorp, Eve Alsman Fuller, R. Bruce Inverarity, Eleanor Roosevelt with R. Bruce Inverarity, Florence Kerr, Robert Armstrong Andrews, Richard C. Morrison, Jacob Baker, Holger Cahill and Jacob Baker, Joseph Danysh, C. Adolph Glassgold, Thomas C. Parker, Elizabeth Olds, Milton Horn, Juan Sanchez, Patricino Barela, Sam Brown, Harry Hopkins and Holger Cahill, Stanton MacDonald Wright at the dedication of the Father Garces monument, John Palo-Kangas, Seminole Indians at the opening of the Miami Federal Galleries, Ellen Woodward with Thomas C. Parker, and Holger Cahill with Duncan Phillips and Harry L. Hopkins.
Also found here are three photograph "albums." Photograph Album I contains photos of artwork, installations, and Shaker furniture and buildings. Photograph Album II contains photos of artists, art classes, and artwork in addition to printed material. Photograph Album III contains photos of posters and murals, group activities and classes relating to the WPA and defense.
This series also contains thirteen photographs of "Changing New York" by Berenice Abbott. The remainder of the series consists of FAP photos of art classes, gallery installations, state art centers and staff and artwork, arranged by state.
For additional FAP photographs see 3.1 (for photographs of FAP administrators), 3.2. (for photographs of Artists), 3.8 (for photographs related to the Index of American Design), 3.10 (for photographs from the 1939-1940 World's Fair) and 3.13 (for photographs from FAP scrapbooks).
(includes photos of Benianino Bufano, Donal Hord and John Palo-Kangas)
(includes photographs of Edward Millman and Mitchell Siporin)
(includes photos of Samuel Cashwan and Walt Speck)
(includes photo of Gov. Harold E. Stassen)
(includes photo of Patrocino Barela)
(includes photos of Arshile Gorky, Edward Laning, Eric Mose and James Michael Newell)
(includes photo of Ambassador Josephus Daniels and Robert Vose)
(includes photo of Louis Bunce)
(includes photo of Eleanor Roosevelt, 1938)
(includes photo of Reuben Nakian)
This series contains typescripts of writings, lectures and speeches by Cahill and others. A large portion of the material relates to the WPA FAP, but there are also book and exhibition reviews and other works of art criticism by Cahill. For additional copies of writings by Cahill see Series 8: Printed Material.
This subseries contains typescripts of lectures and speeches by Cahill, many with hand-written notes and copies of drafts. Parts of some typescripts are missing. Material is arranged chronologically with undated material placed first.
This subseries contains typescripts of lectures and speeches by others, often with notes and copies of drafts. The majority of the material relates to the WPA FAP. Records are arranged chronologically with undated material placed first.
This subseries contains typescripts of writings by Cahill, including book and exhibition reviews. A substantial portion of the material found here was written during Cahill's directorship of the FAP. Material is arranged chronologically with undated material placed first.
This subseries contains typsecripts of writings by others, many of which were produced as part of the WPA FAP. Material is arranged chronologically with undated material placed first.
This subseries comprises typescripts by forty-eight of Cahill's colleagues discussing various media and philosophies of the visual arts used for the book Art For The Millions: Essays from the 1930s by Artists and Administrators of the WPA Federal Art Project, edited by Francis V. O'Connor (Boston: New York Graphic Society, 1973). Typescripts are arranged alphabetically by author.
This series documents the proceedings of meetings of the American Handicraft Council, the Arts and Letters Secretariat, the Artists' International Association, and a Conference on the Support of the Visual Arts. There is also a typescript of an American Federation of Arts annual convention panel with notes on Cahill's presentation as part of that panel. Material is arranged in chronological order.
This series contains research material on folk art and folk artists in addition to material that appears to be related to Cahill's criticism of William Francis McDonald's book Federal Relief Administration and the Arts (Ohio State University Press, 1969) sponsored by the American Council of Learned Societies.
Notes found here are primarily for The Artists' America, an unpublished book by Cahill, and include typescripts of essay fragments and artist biographies, and lists of artists and works of art showing locations and owners. There are also notes relating to the review of the book The Birth of the American Tradition in Art, by Oskar Hagen, handwritten notes relating to Erwin Panofsky and miscellaneous notes.
Artwork in this series consists of four undated drawings of animals by Walt Speck, an undated pen and ink drawing by an unidentified artist of an artist sketching in front of a house, and an undated drawing and a lithograph by unidentified artists.
This series consists of news clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, press releases, prospectuses, calendars of events, programs, brochures, booklets, books, government publications and reproductions of artwork. Much of the material dated between 1935 and 1943 relates to the WPA FAP. News clippings contain copies of approximately thirty articles, including book reviews, written by Cahill for a variety of publications between 1921 and 1960. Some of the material contains hand-written notes.
This series contains photographs of Cahill and family and colleagues including his mother and sister, Harry Hopkins, Edward Rowan, Eleanor Roosevelt and attendees of an FAP meeting including Stanton MacDonald-Wright. Also found here are photographs of miscellaneous artwork. For WPA FAP photographs see 3.14: Photographs.
Correspondence; biographical data; photographs; sketches; notes and writings; calendars; teaching materials; exhibition catalogs and announcements; and clippings.
REELS N70-3-N70-4: Biographical data; a photograph of Calcagno; notes and writings; sketches; writings about Calcagno; a list of his paintings; correspondence with galleries, museums, universities, art organizations, friends and colleagues; teaching material; exhibition catalogs and announcements; and clippings.
REELS N70-43-N70-45: Letters to Calcagno's family, written from Madrid, Florence, Rome and Paris; correspondence with galleries, museums, art organizations, friends, artists, and buyers, including Charles Boggs, Richard Brewer, Adele Cohen, Beauford Delaney, Marilyn Einhorn, Rufus Foshee, Calcagno's sister Virginia Gibson, Alberto Gutierrez, Martha Jackson, Nesta Obermer, Mark Rothko (one letter), Clay Spohn, Hyde Solomon, Yaddo and others; an annotated calendar, 1969; and financial material.
REELS N69-120-N69-121: Correspondence with galleries, museums, artists, art organizations and friends, including: The Gallery of Modern Art, Scottsdale, Arizona, Martha Jackson Gallery, Tirca Karlis Gallery, McRoberts and Tunnard, Ltd, London, Museo de Arte Moderno, Bogata, Columbia, The New Arts Gallery, Houston, Texas, Zuni Gallery, Buffalo, New York, and others; exhibition catalogs and correspondence regarding their publication.
UNMICROFILMED: Biographical data; correspondence with galleries, universities, museums, friends and others; writings and notes; annotated calendars; teaching notebooks; exhibition catalogs, announcements; press releases and invitations; price lists; photographs of Calcagno, his family, studios, and paintings, some which are now destroyed; and slides of paintings.
The papers of abstract kinetic artist and sculptor Alexander Calder measure 2.6 linear feet and date from 1926 to 1967. Found within the papers are scattered biographical materials, correspondence, printed materials, photographs, scattered prints and sketches by Calder, and a scrapbook. Of particular interest are the numerous photographs of Calder, including many of Calder at work in his studios, with his family at their home in Touraine, France, exhibitions, and artwork. Among the photographs are several taken by photographer and artist Herbert Matter and a photograph of Pierre Matisse at Calder's home.
Biographical material contains a few of Calder's personal documents, including a passport and address lists, as well as writings. Correspondence is scattered and of a general nature, including letters about exhibitions and artwork, and postcards from friends, some of which are illustrated. The printed material contains exhibition invitations and catalogs, news clippings, and magazines, primarily about Calder's career. Also found is scattered artwork by Calder and others, and a scrapbook of news clippings dating from 1926-1932.
Biographical Material includes various address lists and business cards kept by Calder, his passport, notes, a catalog with handwritten prices, and other writings. Also found are a French tax document and other ephemera.
This series includes correspondence to and from Calder. Much of the material is about exhibitions and works of art; also found are several postcards from friends. The series contains illustrated envelopes from Calder's son-in-law, Jean Davidson. Some items are in French.
Included in this series are invitations and catalogs for Calder exhibitions, including some international and rare items, news clippings about Calder, the bulk of which span from 1953 to 1955, and other miscellaneous news clippings compiled by Calder. Also found are various magazines and a publication on graphic arts.
This series contains photographs of Calder, including formal portraits, Calder working in his studio, and spending time with his family. Among the photographs are several taken by photographer and artist Herbert Matter. Also found are numerous photographs of Calder at work on an unidentified mobile sculpture from 1954. This series also includes photographs of Calder's Home in Touraine, France, his studio, exhibitions, and his artwork.
Oversized material housed in Box 6
Oversized material digitized with Box 3, Folder 10
Oversized material digitized with Box 4, Folder 2
Oversized material digitized with Box 4, Folder 8
Oversized material digitized with Box 4, Folder 9
Oversized material from Box 5, Folder 4
Artwork includes lino cut prints sent to Calder from his nephew, Kenneth Hayes, as well as prints and sketches by Calder. Also found are three Japanese prints by an unidentified artist.
Oversized material housed in Box 6
Oversized material digitized with Box 5, Folder 5
This series includes one scrapbook, originally a Chinese ledger notebook, containing newspaper clippings about Calder dating from 1926-1932, although it is marked "1929".
Film shows Knaths fishing, clam digging, mixing paints in his studio, and painting. Shots of Knaths' abstract paintings incorporating Cape Cod scenes and themes are interspersed throughout.
VHS copy of 16mm film
The papers or curator and writer John Caldwell measure 1.7 linear feet and date circa 1909 to 1996. The collection documents Caldwell's life and career through a variety of materials, such as biographical material including legal papers relating to the Caldwell Estate, letters from friends and colleagues, writings by Caldwell such as a draft version of a speech and draft essays, printed material including articles written by Caldwell for the New York Times, photographs of Caldwell, family members, dealers, donors, and artists, as well as a video recording documenting the 1985 Carnegie International.
Biographical material includes identification cards, obituaries for John Caldwell and family members, a file on memorials held for Caldwell in San Francisco and New York, along with audio recordings of the services. This series also contains a published monograph which includes the biography, speeches, and writings of Joshua William Caldwell, a family member. Estate files consist of wills, appraisals, bequests, and correspondence. Also included is documentation regarding the John Caldwell Fund for the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art.
This series houses letters to John Caldwell from friends, artists, and gallery and museum representatives including Amy Blakemore, Marian Goodman, Rebecca Horn, Jeff Koons, John R. Lane, Andrew Masullo, and Sean Scully. Also found are invoices, delivery receipts, and acknowledgement letters from institutions including the Corcoran Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C., Luhring Agustine Gallery, New York, NY, Jack Tilton Gallery, New York, NY, San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, CA, and the Walker Art Center, Minneapolis, MN. Also included are honorarium records for Caldwell's participation in juries, symposia, and lectures.
Found within the series are condolence letters to Joan Witek and John R. Lane on Caldwell's passing.
This series is organized chronologically.
Writings by John Caldwell consist of a draft of a speech on Winslow Homer and draft versions of various essays including, "Andy Warhol: Portraits and Disasters," "Art of the '90s," and "Andrew Wyeth: Drawings and Watercolors."
Also found are essays written by Caldwell's mother, Camilla, relating to the social welfare of children.
This series contains articles about John Caldwell and his curatorial career at the Carnegie Museum of Art and San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. Also included are articles written by Caldwell for the suburban weekly sections of the New York Times from 1980-1983. This series also contains newspaper and magazine clippings.
The series houses a catalog, Facing the Finish: Some Recent California Art for the exhibition Caldwell co-curated with Robert Riley in 1991 at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. Also found is a monograph of the collected writings of John Caldwell, This is About Who We Are, which was published posthumously.
This series houses photographs of Caldwell as an infant, young boy, and adult, as well as photographs of his parents, Nathan and Camilla Caldwell. Also included are photographs of Caldwell at exhibitions and with dealers, donors, and artists including Matthew Barney and Sigmar Polke. Found within the series is an image of Caldwell taken by Richard T. Hurst.
This series contains a video recording (VHS) of John Caldwell explaining a selection of the artworks included the 1985 Carnegie International. Found on the same VHS tape is an interview of John Caldwell and John R. Lane conducted by Ruth Massey in 1985. Caldwell and Lane discuss artists selected for the 1985 Carnegie International.
The California Art Club guest register and scrapbooks measure 1.5 linear feet and date from 1916 to 1961. Included are guest registers spanning 1927 to 1931; a Year Book 1916 of the California Art Club containing images of member artwork and essays; and eleven scrapbooks with clippings, exhibition materials, club bulletins, and place settings.
The scrapbooks contain local Los Angeles area newspaper clippings and magazine articles on social events, elections, art forums, club bulletins, and club activities in Los Angeles. Also included is art criticism by critics such as Arthur Millier, Alma May Cook, and Elaine St. Maur, as well as artist obituaries; exhibition announcements and invitations; press releases; and cartoons, sketches, and drawings. These scrapbooks record the events around the club and the Los Angeles art scene, as well as the people and artists involved including Aline Barnsdall, Antony Anderson, Evelyna Nunn Miller, Charles Reiffel, Edouard Vysekal, Theodore B. Modra, Boris Deutsch, Millard Sheets, Mabel Alvarez, Carl Oscar Borg, and Emil J. Kosa.
Included here are guest registers spanning 1927 to 1931; a Year Book 1916 of the California Art Club containing images of member artwork and essays; and eleven scrapbooks.
The scrapbooks contain local Los Angeles area newspaper clippings and magazine articles on social events, elections, art forums, club bulletins, and club activities in Los Angeles. Also included is art criticism by critics such as Arthur Millier, Alma May Cook, and Elaine St. Maur, as well as artist obituaries; exhibition announcements and invitations; press releases; and cartoons, sketches, and drawings. These scrapbooks record the events around the club and the Los Angeles art scene, as well as the people and artists involved including Aline Barnsdall, Antony Anderson, Evelyna Nunn Miller, Charles Reiffel, Edouard Vysekal, Theodore B. Modra, Boris Deutsch, Millard Sheets, Mabel Alvarez, Carl Oscar Borg, and Emil J. Kosa.
Correspondence of the museum's founder Alma de Bretteville Spreckels, with her family, artists, sellers, dealers, museum directors, and others, including Alfredo Barsanti, Lida J. Hahn, Walter Heil, Thomas Carr Howe, Louis Kronberg, Jermayne MacAgy, Lloyd LaPage Rollins, Ralph Stackpole, and others; a scrapbook, 1923-1924; an auction catalog for the Claus A. Spreckels collection; a postcard album; transcript of a speech about the Legion of Honor; 215 photographs of Spreckels, her family, friends, and works of art, the National Sculpture Society exhibition, 1929, and Rodin sculpture in the Spreckels collections; registrarial receipts, 1924-1931; and miscellany.
The papers of sculptor Bessie S. Callender measure 0.8 linear feet and date from circa 1880s-1955. The papers focus on Callender's personal life and travel and include biographical materials, two books, correspondence, and photographs.
Biographical materials include a passport, a diary from 1946, a receipt, and writings on Callender compiled by her husband, Harold Callender. A book entitled Fun Tomorrow: The Story of an Artist and of a Way of Life, is by Harold Callender concerning his wife and her career. Also found is a book of poetry owned by Bessie Callender. Correspondence is from friends and family and largely dates from 1950 to 1951. Letters discuss travel, family news and updates, and get well wishes to Callender. The bulk of the collection consists of photographs including: portraits of Bessie Callender, Harold Callender as an infant, and other members of the Callender family; snapshots of travel in England, France, Switzerland, and throughout the United States, particularly within National Parks; photos of works of art; and photos of other family, friends, dogs, castles, gardens, and homes. Also found are empty negative envelopes, some of which note locations.
Correspondence, clippings, biographical material, personal documents, exhibition notices and catalogs, lectures and writings on art, note and sketchbooks, personal photographs, among them 1 of Mark Tobey and several of Callahan in his studio, and photographs of his works. Also included is a masters thesis on Callahan by Jean Weihl.
Complete set of the quarterly journal, Camera Notes, the official publication of the Camera Club of New York. Published by Alfred Stieglitz from 1897 to 1903. Supersedes Journal of the Camera Club (New York, N.Y.) Editor: July 1897 (v. 1, no. 1)-July 1902 (v. 6, no.2), Alfred Stieglitz; Oct. 1902 (v. 6, no. 3)-Dec. 1903 (v. 6, no. 4), Juan C. Abel. Included are proceedings of the Camera Club of New York.
The papers of painter, dollmaker, and arts administrator Kimberly Camp measure 9.0 linear feet and date from circa 1970 to 2012. The papers comprise biographical materials, including recordings of interviews with Camp; 12 journals/sketchbooks; professional files documenting many aspects of Camp's career; printed materials featuring exhibitions of Camp's artwork and other material related to Camp's work as an artist and arts administrator; photographic materials including digital recordings of exhibitions; and unidentified audiovisual materials.
Biographical materials include appointment books, biographies, and recordings of interviews with Camp. Camps's journals/sketchbooks include notes on professional activities and sketches. Professional files consist of files for the Kellogg National Leadership Program, the Museum of African American History, and the Smithsonian Experimental Gallery, and include video and sound recordings of conferences and panels, project plans, and manuscripts and drafts of "Defending the Dead" by Camp. Printed materials document exhibitions of Camp's artwork and include the Auerbach Employee Handbook and Art Planète video magazine which featured artwork by Camp, in addition to other material related to Camp's work as an artist and arts administrator. Photographic materials include slides, born-digital recordings of exhibitions and Drexel University's centennial, photos of works of art, and personal snapshots. Also found are unidentified audiovisual materials consisting of video and sound recordings.
The series contains 4 appointments books, a few biographies written about Camp, and recordings of interviews with Camp for Breakfast with the Arts, the Barnes Foundation, and Gateways Project in Ghana. The scrapbooks contain printed exhibition materials, clippings, correspondence, and award certificates, and other material related to Camp's career as an artist and as an administrator.
Interviews with Camp on video include Breakfast with the Arts Interview with Kimberly Camp from 2001, an interview for the Barnes Foundation, and interviews for Gateways Project in Ghana.
The cassettes are labeled as party mix tapes, music by King Sunny Ade, and "Kimkins theme song" by Donovan Mixon, a National Endowment for the Arts fellow.
The series consists of 12 journals/sketchbooks dating from 1975 to 2009. Most of the books contain a mixture of meeting notes, thoughts about projects and art, and sketches and doodles. Included are notes on an NEA fellowship, the Reach Project, Detroit, the Museum of African American History, and Salzburg Seminar. The books marked as "decoy," "bogus," and "mock" contain the same mixture of notes and sketches as the other books in the series.
Includes notes on the 1986 National Endowment of the Arts fellowship.
2 small notepads
Files in this series document Camp's professional activities while at the Smithsonian Institution's Experimental Gallery from 1989 to 1994 and at the Charles Wright Museum of African American History where she served as president from 1994 to 1998. Also documented is Camp's participation in the Kellogg National Leadership Program, various conferences and panels captured on sound and video recordings, and other events related to Camp's professional life. One file of correspondence is mainly professional and created during Camp's time at the Museum of African American History. A few personal letters are included from Narcissa Weatherbee and "Ed and Carol." Also in the series are manuscripts and drafts of "Defending the Dead" by Camp.
Includes the People Puzzle Teleconference, Encouraging the Arts panel, Harrisburg panel, and an unidentified panel.
Recordings are of Camp's "Vision Presentation" from 1997 and "A Legacy of Leadership."
Titles of recordings are King Monument SF, Kimkins Camden Historical Society, and American Urban Radio Networks.
Recordings are review copies of AV1, Tableau7, and the Matrix.
Recordings of Applebaum exhibition design meetings and "raw footage" for the museum.
Recordings are of news stories featuring the museum.
Recordings are of a city council meeting and the museum opening in 1997.
Recordings are of George Awad *Powers of 10), a gallery tour, and news stories from The Today Show and WETA.
Recordings are of Forward Motion from 1992, Kids Bridge and children's feelings about racism, and AWAD Astronomical Models (Power of 10).
Recordings include "Artists and Social Issues" panel discussion, Cositas concert and dance, Etiquette of the Undercaste, and "parents and children."
Includes material on African descendants in Mexico.
The series consists of announcements and catalogs for a few of Camp's exhibitions and exhibitions of other artists, the Auerbach Employee Handbook and Art Planète video magazine featuring Camp's artwork, and documentary and news recordings regarding cultural diversity, the contributions of African Americans, the Barnes Foundation, and other topics related to Camp's work and research, and miscellaneous newsletters and other paper and born-digital printed material.
Recordings are by the American Psychological Association and William Greaves Productions.
Recordings are of "Barnes spots" on WHYY and The Africans Programs 106-109.
Recordings are of the Yellow Springs Institute Radio Documentary Series and "Contributions: African-Americans and the American Mosaic."
Recordings are of CBS morning show and of Nelson Mandela's release from jail.
Series includes snapshots of the Hurston Festival, video recordings of Camp's exhibitions and of Drexel University's centennial, and a digital slideshow from Camp Studios. Also found in the series is a large quantity of slides of works of art and mixed slides of events, travel, personal photos, and some works of art.
Recordings are titled "Community Mirror" and "Caribbean Cultural Show" from 1988.
The series consists of 8 video recordings and 1 sound recording that are unlabeled or have labels that do not provide enough information to determine content.
The sound cassette is labeled "Rincon Criollo."
Papers of Orland Campbell pertain to Campbell's career as a portrait artist and to a Gilbert Stuart portrait of Thomas Jefferson, owned, authenticated, and restored by Orland and his brother, Courtney Campbell. Includes:
biographical material, obituaries and condolences, business correspondence, ca. 1920-1970, subject files, research notes, typescripts, sketchbooks and sketches, family papers, financial material, photographs of Campbell and works of art, thirteen scrapbooks, two books, and miscellany.
Correspondence, photographs; writings; exhibition catalogs and announcements; and clippings.
REELS 680 & 1007: Correspondence, mostly business and professional letters; writings such as "The Animal in Art" and other jottings on art and form; price lists, statements from galleries and sales memos; catalogs and announcements; clippings; photographs of Caparn's work, and photos of Caparn in her studio, snapshots and a portrait by Maya Deren, 1948, as well as one by Alan Shayne.
UNMICROFILMED: Correspondence, clippings, exhibition material, receipts, photographs and records relating mainly to the Federation of Modern Painters and Sculptors.
Correpsondence, writings, photographs, artwork and printed material relating to painter and tapissere Sylvia Carewe.
Correspondence includes an undated card from Milton and Sally Avery and a letter from Susan Page Tillett of the National Portrait Gallery, 1979. Writings include photocopies of poems and writings by Carewe, undated and 1943-1972 and 7 books with inscriptions by David Davidovich Burliuk, Chaim Gross, and Abraham Walkowitz. Two of the books contain a gouache and ink drawings by Burliuk and Gross with their inscriptions to Carewe. Photographs are of Carewe, her son, friends and her studio. Also included is a photograph of Carewe and husband, art collector Marvin Small, ca. 1955, signed by Arnold Newman.
Artwork includes 2 sketchbooks, ca. 1942, containing watercolor studies and sketches; a gouache, 1956, by Chaim Gross; a sketchbook of ink and pencil drawings; and a sketchbook containing the signatures of founding members of The American Society of Tapestry Designers, March 30, 1960. Printed material consists of an undated price list and description of tapestries in the exhibition CONTEMPORARY FRENCH TAPESTRIES, sponsored by Association Francaise D'Action Artistique, French & Company, New York City, and a news release about the exhibition; exhibition posters, ca. 1958-1971; 2 postcards of works by Carewe; magazine and newspaper clippings, 1960 and 1963; and other publications about Carewe's tapestries.
Questionnaires completed by American artists of German ancestry or origin listing biographical information, family history, dates of migration and artistic achievements.
Two interviews conducted by Margaret Carney, one with ceramicist Paul Vickers Gardner and one with Chinese American ceramicist, Marie Woo. Carney was compelled to interview Gardner and Woo out of interest. The interview with Gardner was conducted September 27, 1993 at Gardner's home in Washington, D.C. on two sound cassettes and is transcribed (42 pages.) The interview with Woo was conducted digitally on March 5, 2019 (74 minutes, 15 seconds) and is transcribed.
The papers of art critic and curator Carolyn Kinder Carr measure 0.4 linear feet and date from 1960 to 1980. Carr's scattered papers relate to her career as an art critic for the Akron Beacon Journal in the late 1960s to the 1970s. Found are four dismantled scrapbooks containing clippings of Carr's column, letters in response to her critiques, travel expense records.
Found are four dismantled scrapbooks of clippings. The bulk of the collection consists of Carr's column "Art" which appeared in the Akron Beacon Journal. Later clippings concern her appointment as curator at the Akron Art Institute in 1978. Also found are letters from readers, artists, and friends regarding her column and lists of travel expenses.
A letter, 1937, from California Monthly enclosing a portrait sketch of John Carroll by Charles O. Horton; a portrait sketch and a woodcut, undated; 2 exhibition catalogs, 1943 and 1956; and photographs, undated, of works of art.
Correspondence; diaries; business records; printed material; photographs; and miscellaneous items.
Reel NDA 27: Correspondence with Forbes Watson, Olin Dows, Edward B. Rowan and others about Carter's career as an artist and as a supervisor in the Federal Arts Project in Ohio; and several personal letters from Charles Campbell.
Reel N68-19: Memorabilia, including old letters, clippings, family records, and early family photographs.
Reel N70-40: Clippings and other printed material regarding Carter's Holbrook grandparents.
Reels N733-N734: Correspondence with art dealers, with museum directors, relating to exhibitions and specific paintings, and his involvement with the Federal Art Project, 1927-1966.
Reel 85: Clippings; catalogs; journal reproductions of Carter's work; and correspondence relating to Carter's supervision of the painting of post office murals in Portsmouth and Ravenna, Ohio and to the Municipal collection of Cleveland Art project under the Treasury Section and Federal Art Project; also discussion of three exhibits organized by Carter and toured by the Smithsonian Institution during 1966-1970. Correspondents include Edward Rowan, Holger Cahill, and Charles Campbell.
UNMICROFILMED: Family and business correspondence relating to his painting; business files containing correspondence and printed material; exhibition catalogs; photographs of works of art; passports and other travel documents; annotated calendars, 1969-1971; diary entries, Jan.-Apr. 1929; bills and receipts; and printed material.
The records of Carus Gallery measure 3.2 linear feet and date from 1967-2002. This collection documents Dorothea Carus Isserstedt's management of the New York gallery through a small amount of business and personal correspondence; business records regarding acquisitions, sales, and consignments; intentories of artwork and rare books; exhibition catalogs, press clippings, and other printed material; and photographs depicting artwork and exhibition installations.
Correspondence is minimal and consist primarily of art inquiries and similar letters to private collectors, conservators, and other galleries, specifically the Prakapas Gallery and the Skulima Galarie. There is also a small amount of correspondence regarding exhibitions and sales.
Business records include documents detailing acquisitions, sales, and consignments. Also found are financial, legal, and office documents.
Inventories include lists of artworks and rare books that could be found at the Carus Gallery. This series also includes a set of index cards containing catalog information regarding artwork.
Printed material includes a number of gallery catalogs, exhibition announcements, and press releases. The series also includes a catalog that was originally bound detailing information regarding the gallery's art holdings; most entries also include a small thumbnail. Additionally, this series contains a limited number of magazine and newspaper clippings.
Photographs and slides depict artwork by Felix Del Marle, El Lissitzky, and others. In addition to photographs, this series also contains slides of gallery installations at the Carus Gallery.
4 scrapbooks, 1942-1958, containing letters from art associations and societies, notifying Casebier that his works won exhibition awards; loan agreements and receipts; clippings; exhibition catalogs; and photographs. Also included are letters, telegrams and greeting cards from friends, museums and art organizations, 1945-1966; typescripts of 2 essays; printed material; photographs of Casebier, his stained glass works and paintings, 1951-1960; printed material and book covers illustrating Casebier's work; and miscellany.
The papers of Timothy Casper measure 3.4 linear feet and date from 1943-1981, with bulk dates from 1950-1969. The papers document Casper's career and life which was cut short when he died from a car crash at age twenty-one. Included are biographical material; correspondence; writings; exhibition files; personal business records; printed material; photographic material and artwork. Biographical material includes Casper's birth and baptism certificates, his social security card, materials related to Casper's education and resumes and biographic summaries. Correspondence contains letters from Timothy Casper to his mother Elise Ott Casper, and from Elise to others regarding Timothy's artistsic legacy. Writing by Timothy Casper include a diary, an eight grade essay on monoprinting, travel notes and a draft of an New York University course schedule. Writings by others include teacher feedback notes, an annotated list of Casper's artwork, writings related to the planning and publishing of a book on Timothy Casper including a introduction outline, lists of artworks to be featured and correspondence. Exhibition files document six memorial exhibitions of Casper's work. Items include guest and address lists, agendas, writings, invoices, artwork insurance policies, correspondence and printed material. Personal business records include Timothy Casper's estate papers and life insurance documentation, alphabetized artwork title cards with corresponding loan and sale information and an invoice for napkins from Casper's printing business "Casper Studios". Printed Material includes exhibition flyers and newspaper clippings, primarily related to Casper's memorial exhibitions; a copy of Timothy F. Casper 1943-1964 a retrospective book on the life and career of Casper; a program for an elementary school play Casper participated in; brochures for different museums; New York University Graduate School bulletin publications; postcards from different locations in Washington D.C and miscellanea. Photographic material contains portraits of Timothy Casper as a child as well as photographs of his artwork. Also found are three family photo albums of the Caspers, their family and various places they visited, along with a photo album of Casper attending Woodcraft summer camp. Artwork consists of seven sketchbooks, loose and matted sketches, paintings, etching and linocut prints, a woven basket and bracelets. Also found is an extensive amount of Timothy Casper's childhood artwork including drawings, paintings, a molded plaster sculpture and a ceramic monogram.
Biographical material includes Casper's birth and baptism certificates, his social security card and resumes and biographic summaries. Also included are materials related to his education such as school report cards, school merit certificates and graduation records; along with a baby book and summer camp achievement patches.
Correspondence contains letters from Timothy Casper to Elise Ott Casper from when he was attending the Putney boarding school in Vermont, traveling abroad and during his time at New York University. Other correspondence from Timothy Casper include post cards to Paul Reisen and holiday cards from Casper. Also found in this series are correspondence to Elise Ott Casper related to her son's career and/or life. Noteable correspondence includes dancer and family friend Gerard Willem Van Loon and the Smithsonian's National Collection of Art. Also found are holiday and birthday cards to Thomas Casper from friends and family.
Correspondence from Timothy Casper is arranged chronologically and other correspondence to Elise Ott Casper is arranged alphabetically.
Writings contain writings by Timothy Casper, Elise Ott Casper and others. Writing by Timothy Casper include a diary, an eight grade essay on monoprinting, travel notes and a draft of his New York Univeristy course schedule. Writings by others include teacher feedback notes, an annotated list of Casper's artwork, writings related to the planning and publishing of a book on Timothy Casper including a introduction outline, lists of artworks to be featured and correspondence.
Exhibition files document six memorial exhibitions of Casper's work. Items include guest and address lists, agendas, writings, invoices, artwork insurance policies, correspondence and printed material.
Personal business records include Timothy Casper's estate papers and life insurance documentation, alphabetized artwork title cards with corresponding loan and sale information and an invoice for napkins from Casper's printing business "Casper Studios".
Printed Material includes exhibition flyers and newspaper clippings, primarily related to Casper's memorial exhibitions; a copy of Timothy F. Casper 1943-1964, a published book on the life and career of Casper; a program for an elementary school play Casper participated in; brochures for different museums; New York University Graduate School bulletin publications; postcards from different locations in Washington D.C and miscellanea.
Photographic material contains portraits of Timothy Casper as a child as well as photographs of his artwork. Also found are three family photo albums of the Caspers, their family and various places they visited, along with a photo album of Casper attending Woodcraft summer camp.
Some language in the captions of this album may be offensive to viewers. It is presented as it exists in the original documents for the benefit of research. This material in no way reflects the views of the Archives of American Art or the Smithsonian Institution.
Artwork consists of seven sketchbooks, loose and matted sketches, paintings, etching and linocut prints, a woven basket and bracelets. Also found is an extensive amount of Timothy Casper's childhood artwork including drawings, paintings, a molded plaster sculpture and a ceramic monogram.
This small collection of sixty-three letters written by painter Mary Cassatt dates from 1882 to 1926. The bulk of these letters are to Cassatt's nephew, Robert Kelso Cassatt, and to his wife Minnie regarding family, mutual friends, and travel. The remaining letters are to friends regarding purchases of artwork, travel, and personal news. There is also one newsclipping of Cassett's obituary.
The letters of painter Mary Cassatt contain 64 items and date from 1892 to 1926. The bulk of these letters are to Cassatt's nephew, Robert Kelso Cassatt, and to his wife Minnie regarding family, mutual friends, and travels in and around France. The remaining letters discuss updates and sales of artwork, the provenance behind specific works of art, and news of personal events and travels. The series also includes two letters to Robert Cassatt from his grandparents and one clipping of Cassatt's obituary from an unidentified French newspaper.
Letters to Robert Cassatt from his grandparents.
Fourteen letters from Cassatt to Emily Sartain and one letter from Sartain to Cassatt, discussing a trip the two were to take to Europe, as well as some mention by Cassatt of her artistic development in Spain and Italy. Dates on the correspondence are by an unknown hand and are questionable.
Handwritten catalog, 12 p., listing 182 of Stuart's portraits, and 27 of his pictures in Philadelphia. On cover: "Exact copy of the catalog of portraits by Stuart exhibited 1828 in Boston...see Dunlap's History of Design, v.1."
Correspondence; vital information; exhibition announcements and catalogs.
Letters from Catlin to Sir Thomas Phillipps, 1840-1860, and 2 letters from Phillipps to Catlin; writings by Catlin; material on Catlin's Indian Gallery, including clippings, catalogs, handbills, invitations, Indian drawings, and printed material; a watercolor sketchbook; a list of paintings; Indian portrait sketches; and miscellany.
A partial selection of Century Club records including exhibition records, miscellaneous notes on exhibitions, exhibition catalogs and a small group of correspondence.
Correspondence, mostly with Hiram Hitchcock; papers relating to his book, CYPRUS, published in 1878; legal papers; pamphlets, periodicals, and clippings; photograghs of works of art; and biographical material.
Selected papers from the Cesnola collection at Dartmouth College. Including:
Two scrapbooks, begun in 1910, containing clippings picturing classic works of European and American art; and a photograph of Champollion's studio or residence.
The scattered papers of sculptor and painter Elenora S. Chambers measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1955 to 1993. Found are biographical material, correspondence with Florida arts organizations, a photograph and slides, printed material, a sketchbook, and writings and notes.
Papers include artist statements and a resume. Correspondence is with Florida art organizations. A 1965 letter from Bernard Davis discusses Chambers's one-woman exhibition at the Miami Museum of Art. Photographs are of James L. Brooks and slides are of works of art by Chambers. Printed materials consist of exhibition catalogs, announcements, and clippings regarding Chambers and others. A sketchbook contains pencil and pen sketches as well as notes on James Brooks and others. Writings and notes are from lectures by Robert Motherwell, Jules Olitski, Hilton Kramer, and others. Also found are travel notes and a small datebook with notes.
Correspondence; a chapter on Chamberlain from Richard A. Fitzgerald's dissertation, RADICAL ILLUSTRATOR OF THE MASSES AND LIBERATOR, University of California, 1969, with a commentary by Chamberlain; biographical notes; MASSES clippings and articles, and published and unpublished cartoons; and six photographs of Chamberlain.
Newspaper and magazine clippings relating to exhibitions at the Gallery; a press release for the exhibition SITE SPECIFIC: SAN ANTONIO, Charlton Gallery, 1982; and bulletins published by the Arts Council of San Antonio, 1978-1979.
Minute books, scrapbooks, membership records, correspondence, a sketchbook, treasurer records, and printed material.
REELS 3414-3416: Six minute books, 1888-1965, containing minutes of Board of Directors, Board of Managers, and annual and special meetings of the Charcoal Club; also enclosed are letters, election ballots, President's, Treasurer's and committee reports, financial statements, exhibition invitations, announcements and catalogs, newsletters, and newspapers. Other records include membership lists; a sketchbook containing 9 animal studies by member W.K. Sweeney; and 6 scrapbooks, containing letters, illustrated invitations and dinner menus, exhibition invitations, announcements and catalogs, newspaper clippings, printed material about the Charcoal Club School of Art and events sponsored by the Club, photographs, and memorabilia about I. (Ignatius) L. Glutz (a fictional character created by the Club.)
REELS 5131-5133: Treasurer's reports, 1968-1988; newspaper clippings, 1933-1988; profiles of Charcoal Club members; correspondence regarding a proposed club history book, 1965-1972; minutes, Jan. 1968-Dec. 1987; minutes/scrapbooks, Jan. 1965-Jan. 1968; catalogs of the Charcoal Club School of Art; legal papers, 1885-1937; exhibition announcements and invitations, ca. 1920's-1980's; correspondence of founding member Lee Woodward Zeigler; membership lists and by-laws, and proposals for the constitution, ca. 1930-1986; correspondence regarding the club, ca. 1930's-1980, including letters from Mayor Theodore McKeldin, Grace Trumbull, and Governor Spiro Agnew; and Ignatius Glutz material.
Describes Gropius' unrealized project "Total Theater." The model shown was designed and fabricated by Charles Forberg Associates, New York. Also found on duplicate videocassette is "A Night In the Artist's Studio: Gasparo with model Magdelene Egry," ca. 1950, copied from 16 mm. film (8 min.) from the Oronzo Gasparo papers.
The papers of filmmaker, photographer, painter, printmaker, teacher, and arts advocate Maryette Charlton measure 81 linear feet and 0.34 gigabytes and date from circa 1890 to 2013. This particularly rich collection includes biographical materials, correspondence, writings, 30 diaries, teaching files, professional and project files, major film project files, artist research files, exhibition files, printed material, scrapbooks, artwork, 22 sketchbooks, extensive photographic materials, numerous sound and video recordings, motion picture film, a digitized sound recording, and an unintegrated later addition to the papers containing additional biographical materials, journals, correspondence, subject files, printed materials, and scattered photographs.
Biographical materials consist of material on Maryette Charlton and her family. The subseries on Maryette Charlton includes a biographical chronology, passports, records of her marriage to Hall Winslow, information on studio spaces, school transcripts, and other material. Family files include genealogical charts and files of family members containing correspondence, writings, printed material, sound and video recordings, and photographs. The bulk of the family files are for Charlton's parents, Etna and Shannon, and her husband and son, Hall and Kirk Winslow.
Extensive correspondence is with family, friends, artists, and colleagues. Family correspondence is with her husband and son, parents, and extended family. Personal correspondence is with friends and colleagues, many of whom were famous artists. Named correspondence files and chonological correspondence files contain exchanges with Jo Andres, Elizabeth Bishop, Xenia Cage, Paula Court, Yasuo Fujitomi, Dimitri Hadzi, Margo Hoff, Sylvia Shaw Judson, Lillian Kiesler, Cindy Lubar, Loren MacIver, Pierre Matisse, Nimet (Saba Habachy), Henri Seyrig, Robert Wilson, and many others. There is also correspondence with colleges, museums, and universities.
Writings include academic papers and college class notes, titled essays, a notebook with sketches, and miscellaneous notes. Thirty diaries cover the period 1943 - 2001 and document a wide variety of topics, from film projects to travels to the art world in New York City. Some diaries are illustrated, including one illustrated by Alexander Calder at a party with Maryette, Ellsworth Kelly, and actress Delphine Seyrig. Journals from 1978-1979 tell of Charlton's experiences while appearing in films made by avant-garde director Richard Foreman. There is also one diary of Maryette's mother Etna Barr Charlton.
Teaching files document Charlton's career as an instructor at the Art Institute of Chicago and as the founder of and instructor at the American University of Beirut's art department. Files include appointment calendars, schedules, notes, lectures, news releases, printed material, and photographs.
Professional and project files consist of material related to Maryette Charlton's professional work at the University of Iowa Museum of Art, as a lecturer at the Chicago Public School Art Society, color analyst at the Container Corporation of America, executor of the estate of artist Louise Medbery von Brockdorff, fellowships, conferences, organizations, and the filming industry in general. There are files for the screening of Zen in Ryoko-In. The University of Iowa Museum of Art subseries consists of correspondence with fellow co-founders Leone and Owen Elliott, files on art donations, museum administration, annual reports, printed material, photographs, and sound and video recordings.
Artist research files consist of books, articles, and clippings collected by Charlton for research. Notable artists chronicled include Alexander Calder, James Purdy, Louise Nevelson, Kiki Smith, and Toshiko Takaezu.
Major film project files document Maryette Charlton's films about or with artists Frederick Kiesler (Trienniale, The Universal Theater and Kiesler on Kieseler), Lenore Tawney, Dorothy Miller, Loren MacIver, and Jeanne Reynal. The files for Frederick Kiesler also contain materials about his wife Lillian Kiesler, with whom Charlton had a long relationship and collaborated with on film projects. Individual film project files contain a wide variety of research and production documentation, including correspondence, writings, printed material, research files, exhibition catalogs, photographic materials, sound recordings of interviews and lectures, and Charlton's documentation about the creation and production of each film, such as contracts, scripts, and distribution information. The film project files for Kiesler and Dorothy Miller are particularly rich, containing substantial amounts of primary source materials not found elsewhere. Sound and video recordings are found throughout the series, as well as 4 film reels.
Files documenting Maryette Charlton's group and solo exhibitions include catalogs and announcements, publicity, printed material, mailing lists, art inventory, sales lists, correspondence, and other material.
Printed materials include other exhibition catalogs, books, posters, magazines, and clippings. There are many books on color theory from Maryette Charlton's job as a color analyst and substantial printed material on Frederick Kiesler. Scrapbooks document Maryette Charlton's personal life from high school, college, and summer camp, as well as exhibitions of her own work, and miscellaneous subjects.
Artwork includes sketches and drawings by Maryette Charlton, some drawings by Lillian Kiesler and others, and mail art created by various artists. There are also 22 sketchbooks filled with pencil, ink, and crayon drawings and sketches, with occasional annotations.
Photographic materials include photographs, slides, negatives, and photograph albums. There are photographs of Maryette Charlton, her travels, family, friends, and artists. Photographs are also found throughout other series.
Sound and video recordings which could not be merged with other series were arranged in an audiovisual series. There are recordings of radio programs and performances Maryette Charlton attended or participated in as well as miscellaneous recordings of artists and events.
The 2014 addition to the Maryette Charlton papers consists of biographical materials, journals, correspondence, subject files, printed materials, and a small number of photographs.
Biographical material consists of records about Maryette Charlton's personal life, academic studies, and family history.
The subseries on Maryette Charlton includes a biographical chronology, passports, records of her marriage to and divorce from Hall Winslow, information on studio and work spaces, school transcripts and diplomas, yearbooks, a pilot's license and manuals from when she took flying lessons, and other material. There is one videocassette and one sound tape reel.
Oversized material housed in Box 80
This subseries includes assorted material on genealogical history, family reunions, events, and relatives. The bulk of the material consists of records on Maryette Charlton's parents, Etna and Shannon, and her husband and son, Hall and Kirk Winslow, with a few files on other extended family members. There is biographical material, correspondence, writings, printed material, and photographs. There are also 6 videocassettes, 2 sound cassettes, and 1 sound tape reel.
Oversized material housed in Box 80
Correspondence is with family, friends, artists, and colleagues.
Maryette Charlton's family correspondence is with her husband and son, Hall and Kirk Winslow, her parents and extended family members. There is 1 sound cassette.
Letters by Maryette Charlton to her parents.
Personal correspondence includes letters between Maryette Charlton and her friends and colleagues, many of whom were famous artists. Notable correspondents include Jo Andres, Laura Benet, Elizabeth Bishop, Steve and Lucian Buscemi, Xenia Cage, Patrice Caire, Paula Court, Yasuo Fujitomi, Nimet Saba Habachy, Dimitri Hadzi, Margo Hoff, Sylvia Shaw Judson, Lillian Kiesler, Loren MacIver, Patricia Michaels Mason, Barbara Meyer, Henri Seyrig, Scotty Snyder, Nicole Stenger, Diane Thome, and Robert Wilson, among many others. There is also correspondence with colleges, museums, and organizations such as the Chicago Public School System and Pratt Institute. There is 1 sound disc and 1 sound cassette.
Correspondence about a project on Elizabeth Lawrence Kalashnikoff.
Writings include Maryette Charlton's academic papers and notes from graduate and undergraduate studies as well as drafts of essays and articles on subjects such as her career, artists she knew, and places she lived.
Handwritten and typescript drafts of article about Marion Morehouse.
Thirty diaries by Maryette Charlton document travels and other aspects of her professional and personal life. Some contain drawings and others have information about her film projects. One diary contains drawings of Charlton by Alexander Calder. One additional diary was written by her mother Etna Barr Charlton. The addition to the Maryette Charlton papers arranged in series 16 contains a few journals.
Includes Alexander Calder's drawings of Maryette Charlton, Delphine Seyrig, and Ellsworth Kelly.
Includes entries on Richard Foreman film.
Teaching files document Maryette Charlton's career as an instructor at the Art Institute of Chicago and as the founder of and teacher at the art department at the American University of Beirut. Files include appointment calendars, schedules, notes, lectures, printed material, and photographs.
This subseries includes correspondence, appointment calendars, lecture notes and notebooks, administrative files, and various printed material related to Maryette Charlton's work as a lecturer and tour guide for exhibitions at the Art Institute of Chicago.
Oversized material housed in Box 80.
This subseries consists of material related to Maryette Charlton's work as founder and professor of the American University of Beirut's Art Department. Files include appointment calendars, schedules, notes, lectures, exhibition and printed material, and photographs. There are additional photographs on Beirut in the photographic materials series.
Oversize material housed in Box 80.
Oversized material housed in Box 80.
Found here is documentation of Maryette Charlton's professional projects and work, memberships, committees, grants, fellowships, conferences, and the film business in general. Many of the files document her founding of the University of Iowa Museum of Art, her work at the Chicago Public School Art Society, as a color analyst for the Container Corporation of America, and as executor of the estate of artist Louise Medbery von Brockdorff. Files documenting Charlton's major film projects are arranged in Series 7.
Maryette Charlton founded the University of Iowa Museum of Art together with Leone and Owen Elliott. Arranged here is correspondence between Charlton and the Elliotts and material on the art collections they donated to the museum. Files include business correspondence with museum administrators, annual reports, printed material, and photographs. There are also 7 sound cassettes and 10 microcassettes, mostly of recordings of conversations between Maryette Charlton and Leone Elliott, who were close friends.
Informal interviews and conversations recorded on various dates at different locations.
Oversized material housed in OV 87.
Other professional and project files document Charlton's work and projects in Chicago and New York City. There are files on projects, grant applications, fellowships, conferences, committees, and membership records. Some of the most voluminous files are on Charlton's work at the Chicago Public School Art Society, as a color analyst at the Container Corporation of America, and as executor of artist Louise Medbery von Brockdorff's estate. This subseries also documents Charlton's affiliations with museums and universities. Information on storing and purchasing film equipment, mailing lists, festivals, and film ideas unrelated to specific film projects are found here as well. Additionally, there are files related to her film Zen in Ryoko-In. 
Includes a copy of the book Basic Color
Oversized material housed in Box 81.
Found here are general research files on artists which interested Maryette Charlton. Files contain mostly printed material such as books, articles, and clippings. Notable artists include Alexander Calder, Louise Nevelson, Kiki Smith, and Toshiko Takaezu. The series also includes autographed books, and typescript drafts by James Purdy, a writer who had a close working relationship with Maryette Charlton and Lillian Kiesler. There is also 1 film reel labeled "Calder" along with 1 copy print of the original reel.
Motion picture film stored separately in film cans numbered FC 88-89
Book includes photographs by Maryette Charlton
Major film project files document Maryette Charlton's films about or with artists Frederick Kiesler (Trienniale, The Universal Theater and Kiesler on Kieseler), Lenore Tawney, Dorothy Miller, Loren MacIver, and Jeanne Reynal. The files for Frederick Kiesler also contain materials about his wife Lillian Kiesler, with whom Charlton had a long relationship and collaborated with on film projects. Individual film project files contain a wide variety of research and production documentation, including correspondence, writings, printed material, research files, exhibition catalogs, photographic materials, sound recordings of interviews and lectures, and Charlton's documentation about the creation and production of each film, such as contracts, scripts, and distribution information. Sound and video recordings are found throughout the series, as well as 2 film reels.
This subseries consists of material on architect and sculptor Frederick Kiesler and his wife Lillian. There are files on Charlton's films on Frederick Kiesler including Trienniale, The Universal Theater, and Kiesler on Kiesler. Also included are files on the Austrian Kiesler Foundation, transcripts and recordings of lectures and interviews about Kiesler, printed material, correspondence, photographs, writings by and about Kiesler, and performances about Kiesler, including one by Alfred Barr. Sound and video recordings of Frederick and Lillian Kiesler include 35 sound tape reels, 18 sound cassettes, 9 videocassettes, 1 film reel, and 1 digitized sound disc. There are also photographs of Lillian Kiesler in the photographic materials series.
Oversized magazine housed in Box 81
Oversized book housed in Box 81
Oversized poster housed in OV 87
Oversized photograph housed in Box 81
Motion picture film stored separately in film can numbered FC 90
Transcripts of Lillian Kiesler interviewing several people about their recollections of Frederick Kiesler including Maryette Charlton, Inez Garson, Frederick and Reinhold Heller, Lucia Dlugoszewski, Jack Lenore Larson, and others.
"Red Slide," "Bosho 5x2 Rehearsal," and "Dreaming Out Loud Dance"
Oversized material housed in Box 81.
This series includes research material for Charlton's film about Lenore Tawney, a pioneer in the fiber arts. Among the files are correspondence, exhibition catalogs, printed material, artifacts, and mail art exchanged between Charlton and Tawney. There are 2 sound tape reels and 1 film reel.
Oversized material housed in Box 81.
Oversized tapestry housed in Box 81.
Cardboard box decorated with paper and twine.
Includes a dreamcatcher, empty tin box, cardboard box with rocks glued inside, and other objects.
The subseries consists of material on Charlton's films about Dorothy Miller, the influential first curator of the Museum of Modern Art, and contains important research material on Miller's curatorial work. Included is correspondence, exhibition catalogs, annual reports, printed material, a scrapbook about the film, and photographic material, including images of Miller.
There are also 6 sound tape reels and 1 sound cassette. Several reels are edited versions of the Alfred Barr recording of "Kiesler's Galaxy" that are also found in the Kiesler subseries. However, these particular recordings were used in the Dorothy Miller film.
Includes correspondence, screening notes, publicity, and other material.
Oversized clippings housed in Box 81.
Consists of 4 boxes of slides showing artwork, exhibitions, installations, and openings. The bulk of the images are of the Venice Biennale and Louise Nevelson.
This subseries contains material related to Charlton's film on Loren MacIver, a painter of abstract landscapes. Included are notes, scripts, shooting cards, shot lists, printing plates, distribution information, research, and photographic material. There are also 2 film reels, trims, and canisters of 35 mm photographs, and folders about the subsequent screening of the film at various locations. A few photographs about the Loren MacIver film are in the photographic materials series.
Oversized plates housed in Box 82.
Oversized material housed in Box 82.
This subseries consists of material on Maryette Charlton's film about sculptor and mosaicist Jeanne Reynal. Included are research materials, editing notes, contracts, screening notes, shooting cards, exhibition catalogs, and photographs.
Photographs of mosaics and a few photographs of Jeanne Reynal working.
Files on Maryette Charlton's group and solo exhibitions includes catalogs, announcements, clippings, printed material, mailing lists, art inventory, sales lists, limited correspondence, and other material.
Printed material includes exhibition catalogs, books, posters, magazines, and clippings. There are several books on color theory dating from Maryette Charlton's job as a color analyst for the Container Corporation of America. Of particular note is a copy of Twenty Years at Hull House signed by Jane Addams. There is a lot of printed material on Frederick Kiesler.
Oversized magazine housed in Box 82.
Book is signed by Jane Addams.
Oversized poster housed in OV 87.
Scrapbooks document Maryette Charlton's personal life from high school, college, and summer camp, exhibitions, and miscellaneous subjects.
Oversized scrapbook housed in Box 82.
Oversized scrapbooks housed in Box 83.
Most of the sketches and drawings in this series are by Maryette Charlton and Lillian Kiesler with a few drawings by Elizabeth Gruse Dixon and Margo Hoff. There is also a batch of mail art by various artists.
Oversized drawings housed in Box 84.
This series consists of 22 sketchbooks that span most of Maryette Charlton's professional life and include pencil, ink, and crayon drawings and sketches. There are occasional annotations. Most of the sketchbooks are untitled.
Includes 2 sketchbooks.
Includes 8 sketchbooks.
Includes 3 small sketchbooks.
Includes 2 small sketchbooks.
This series includes photographs, slides, negatives, and albums. There are portraits and photographs of Maryette Charlton and her photographs and snapshots of travels abroad, family, friends, and artists. Additional photographs are found in many other series as well. The addition to the Maryette Charlton papers also includes a small number of photographs.
Oversized album housed in Box 84.
Includes photographs with Leone and Owen Elliott as well as Loren MacIver.
Oversized album housed in Box 84.
Box label indicates slides are of "Paintings, Galleries, Schools, Portraits"
Slides of Lillian Kiesler at various locations and events and some photos of houses, gardens, and artwork.
Includes photographs of Alexander Calder.
Oversized album housed in Box 84.
Photographs of various individuals, photographer might be Hall Winslow.
Oversized photographs are housed in Box 85.
Oversized album housed in Box 85.
Oversized album housed in Box 86.
This subseries consists of informal photographs of friends and colleagues at various locations at home or possibly traveling. Some photographs appear to be from college. These photographs in this subseries are unrelated to film projects.
This series consists of miscellaneous sound and video recordings which could not be merged with the material in other series. There are recordings of radio programs, lectures, performances, and events which Maryette Charlton attended or participated in. Folder headings in quotations are often transcriptions from the labels on the recordings. This series includes 9 videocassettes (VHS), 13 sound cassettes, 2 videodiscs (DVD), 1 sound tape reel, and 4 sounds discs (vinyl).
Untitled cassette with list of contents starting with "Fairuz," possibly Lebanese songs.
Includes "Birds of the African Rain Forests," "A Bell Ringing in the Empty Sky: Japanese Shakuhachi Music," and "China's Instrumental Heritage"
This series is an unintegrated addition to the papers acquired in 2014. It is comprised of biographical materials, journals, correspondence, subject files, printed material and a few photographs. Personal correspondence consists of some letters written by Charlton, holiday cards, letters from artists Etel Adnan and Yasuo Fujitomi, and correspondence with her personal representative and executor Jo Andres. Found among the subject files are artists Etel Adnan, Dakota Jackson, Leon Polk Smith, Charlton's friend Lillian Kiesler, her deceased son Kirk Winslow, and miscellaneous subjects. Printed material includes books and periodicals. Also found are a few personal photographs and views of miscellaneous subjects. There is also 1 videodisc (DVD).
Oversized catalog housed in Box 86.
Oversized material housed in Box 86.
Miscellaneous photographs of friends and family, including images of Maryette Charlton.
Circa 180 letters and postcards from David Smith, mostly written from Terminal Iron Works, Bolton Landing, New York. Smith discusses his work, family, artist-friends, and other matters.
The photographs of Edwin Burrage Child measure 2.2 linear feet and date from 1902-1936. Included in this collection are original photographic prints and copy prints; 101 negatives; 59 glass plate negatives; and one folder of miscellaneous papers including a sketch by Edwin Burrage Child. Photographs depict artwork, interiors, furniture, and people.
Photographs of people and other subjects depict several portrait images of Edwin Burrage Child, as well as many photographs and negatives of unidentified groups and events, children, men building a log cabin structure at Child's Dorset, Vermont home, and several models for painting.
Photographs of landscapes, buildings, and animals include a series of landscape photographs of Central Park, complete with the city in the background; many images of the Dorset, Vermont landscape with Child's house and barn structures depicted; landscapes with rainclouds and lightning, also in Dorset, Vermont; and images of horses attached to carriages and wagons, and cows and sheep, as well as several images of a dead horse on the streets of a small town.
Photographs of interiors, furniture, and lighting are made up primarily of copy prints and negatives, and include images of pieces of furniture, light fixtures and sconces, as well as entire interior rooms of what is probably Child's Dorset home. Additionally, photographs of Child's studio with paintings hung on walls are also found here.
Photographs of artwork make up the bulk of the collection, with original prints, copy prints, negatives, and glass plate negatives of primarily portrait paintings by Edwin Burrage Child. Many of the original photographic prints have been annotated on the backs with descriptive information about the portrait model, where they are from, and their occupation. Some annotations contain anecdotal information about Child's interactions or experiences with the sitters, and have been written by Child's youngest son, Sargent Burrage Child. While some of the descriptive information has been identified as written by both Edwin Burrage Child and Sargent Burrage Child, some writing could not be identified. A set of glass plate negatives without prints also depicts several of Child's landscape paintings. Additionally, a dismantled photograph album contains original prints of Child's portraits of men, women, and children, as well as containing the most descriptive information of all the prints in the collection.
Miscellaneous papers contains a sketch with note by Edwin Burrage Child; a handwritten letter in pencil, on Child's stationery, by Child; a typed exhibition inventory of portraits in the Washington, D. C. exhibit, "Portraits by Edwin Burrage Child," in 1930; and a copy of the 5 x 7 glass plate negatives box that previously stored glass plate negatives.
Found here are portrait images of Edwin Burrage Child over decades, Child and family in snow outside of their Dorset home, models for paintings, and men building a log cabin structure at Child's Dorset, Vermont home. Also found are unidentified groups of people depicted at events and various activities, including women riding a carousel, women and men in the woods for a picnic, walking in large groups across fields, fishing, at a graduation, in a city, and at a train station. There are also images of groups of children in a field, and a baby in a carriage and high chair. One image depicts a man in patched clothing and a bowler hat outside with a harp as tall as he is, draped in rags. Another image depicts an aproned man in front of an old storefront, behind a canvas covered horse-drawn wagon, feeding scraps to several eager dogs.
10 glass plate negatives housed in box 5
2 glass plate negatives housed in box 5
4 glass plate negatives housed in box 4
Found here are images of primarily the Dorset, Vermont landscape --hills, fields, streams, woods --mostly with Edwin Burrage Child's house and barns depicted. Some landscape images feature a raincloud-filled sky, and one is an image of lighting striking the top of a hill. Additionally, there are several panoramic images of Central Park, complete with city line, in New York City. There are also many images of sheep, cows, and horses, mostly bridled and hitched to wagons and carriages. Several images depict one scene of a dead horse on the side of a dirt road with town storefronts and some children and people in the background.
1 glass plate negative housed in box 5
4 glass plate negatives housed in box 5
6 glass plate negatives housed in box 4
1 glass plate negative housed in box 5
Included here are images of pieces of furniture (perhaps constructed by Edwin Burrage Child), light fixtures and sconces in detail and as part of larger interior rooms, as well as several images of Child's studio with portrait paintings hung on the walls.
Included here are primarily images of Edwin Burrage Child's portrait paintings, of men, women, and children. A dismantled photograph album is also included, containing Child's portrait paintings. Many of the images have descriptive annotations identifying the portrait model, where they lived, and the nature of their primary occupation. Images within the photograph album sometimes contain more descriptive detail about the sitter. While some of the annotations were written by Edwin Burrage Child, most were written by Child's youngest son, Sargent Burrage Child, sometimes containing anecdotal information about the sitter or their relationship with Child, as well as many notes by unidentified authors. Also found here are images of Child's landscape paintings of Dorset, Vermont, only in glass plate negative format. Several of the portrait paintings were noted as "Washington, D. C. Exhibition," probably meaning they were included in Child's exhibit of work at the National Collection of Fine Arts in Washington, D. C. from February to March of 1930. One self-portrait image of Edwin Burrage Child is depicted in a photographic reproduction from "The National Cyclopedia of American Biography."
6 glass plate negatives housed in box 4
8 glass plate negatives housed in box 4
4 glass plate negatives housed in box 4
6 glass plate negatives housed in box 4
1 glass plate negative housed in box 4
9 glass plate negatives housed in box 4
Found here is a sketch with note by Edwin Burrage Child; a handwritten letter in pencil, on Child's stationery, by Child; a typed exhibition inventory of portraits in the Washington, D. C. exhibit, "Portraits by Edwin Burrage Child," at the National Collection of Fine Arts in Washington, D. C. in 1930; and a copy of the 5 x 7 glass plate negatives box that previously stored glass plate negatives.
Series comprises 59 glass plate negatives.
Correspondence, 1932-1944; printed material; and scripts, 1939-1950, for radio shows, "Look and Listen", 1939-1944, "Art Techniques", 1943-1944, "The Heathers in Houston", 1944, and "Art is Fun", 1949-1950, in which interviews are conducted with various authorities on art.
Biographical data; newspaper and magazine clippings; a Bryant Park Artists in Residence Program file containing Chin's revised proposal for his sculpture, a news release, and photographs; a drawing of Chin's sculpture "The Manila Palm;" copies of sketches for a sculpture commission in Houston; and photographs of Chin's works of art.
Papers of curator Herschel Browning Chipp concern the provenance, conservation, publication and exhibition of the painting "Washington rallying the troops at Monmouth," 1854, by Emanuel Gottlieb Leutze, owned by the University of California, Berkeley, University Art Museum.
correspondence, research notes, press releases, newsclippings, photographs, conservation reports, and 2 unpublished manuscripts, "Washington at Monmouth" by John D. Hicks, and "Emanuel Leutze's Mural Westward the Course of Empire Takes Us Way" by Justin G. Turner, and documents regarding the program and budget for the 1965 exhibition of the Leutze painting.
Letters; scrapbook; catalogs and announcements; clippings; and photographs.
REEL D105: 35 letters and a scrapbook.
UNMICROFILMED: 25 catalogs and announcements; 67 clippings; 93 photographs of Chizmarik, his family, and friends; and miscellany.
The records of Christine Burgin Gallery, a New York City gallery representing conceptual artists from the United States and Europe, measure 18 linear feet and 52.28 GB, and date from 1980-2016. The collection documents the gallery's activities, projects, and relationships with artists through administrative files and business records, artist files, exhibition files, and client files. Administrative files and business records document the operations and daily activities of the gallery. Artist files comprise nearly half of the collection and contain correspondence with artists, consignment and loan forms for exhibitions at other venues, inventories and sales invoices, photographic material, exhibitions announcements and catalogs, clippings, research and source material, as well as project files for numerous publications and editions the gallery produced in collaboration with artists. Exhibition files document the dozens of exhibitions at the gallery during their two periods of operation, 1986-1992 and 1999-2007, and include correspondence, price lists, installation documentation, photographic material, press releases, artist biographies, exhibition announcements, and clippings. Client files predominantly contain correspondence and invoices to clients. Some material is in born-digital form, including images of artwork and installations, slide shows, document files, as well as audiovisual recordings. The collection also contains two analog video recordings.
Administrative files and business records date from 1985-2012 and document the daily activities of the gallery. Files pertain to art fairs, consignments, gallery purchases and sales, and other routine operations.
Artist files date from 1980-2016 and comprise nearly half of the collection at 8.4 linear feet and 35.75 GB. Files contain correspondence with artists, consignment and loan forms for exhibitions at other venues, inventories and sales invoices, photographic material, exhibitions announcements and catalogs, clippings, research and source material, as well as project files for numerous publications and editions the gallery produced in collaboration with artists. This series contains material in born-digital form, including images of artwork and installations, document files, as well as audiovisual recordings. Also found here are two analog video recordings of Gert Verhoeven's film, The Blob. Files pertaining to exhibitions at Christine Burgin Gallery are arranged in series 3.
Includes born-digital files, see ER01
Includes born-digital files, see ER02
Includes born-digital files, see ER03
Includes born-digital files, see ER04
Includes born-digital files, see ER05
Includes born-digital file, see ER06
Includes born-digital files, see ER07
Includes born-digital files, see ER08
Includes born-digital file, see ER09
Includes born-digital files, see ER10
Includes born-digital files, see ER11
Includes born-digital files, see ER12
Includes born-digital files, see ER13
Includes born-digital file, see ER14
Includes born-digital files, see ER15
Includes born-digital files, see ER16
Includes born-digital files, see ER17
Includes born-digital files, see ER18
Includes born-digital files, see ER19
Includes born-digital files, see ER23
Includes born-digital files, see ER24
Includes born-digital files, see ER26
Exhibition files date from 1986-2015 and document the dozens of exhibitions at the gallery during their two periods of operation, 1986-1992 and 1999-2007. Files include correspondence, price lists, sales records, expenses, installation documentation, concept and planning documentation, photographic material, press releases, artist biographies, exhibition announcements, and clippings. This series also contains material in born-digital form, including images of artwork and installations, document files, as well as audiovisual recordings.
Includes born-digital files, see ER30
Includes born-digital files, see ER31
Includes born-digital files, see ER32
Includes born-digital files, see ER33
Includes born-digital files, see ER34
Includes born-digital files, see ER35
Includes born-digital files, see ER36
Includes born-digital files, see ER37
Includes born-digital files, see ER38
Includes born-digital files, see ER39
Includes born-digital files, see ER40
Includes born-digital files, see ER41
Includes born-digital files, see ER42
Includes born-digital files, see ER43
Client files date from 1983-2013 and predominantly contain correspondence and invoices to clients. Some correspondence with institutions and galleries contain consignments and loan agreements as well.
The papers of photographer, painter, sculptor, and educator William Christenberry (1936-2016) measure 7.3 linear feet and 14.76 GB and date from circa 1917-2018, with the bulk of the records dating from 1960-2018. The collection sheds light on Christenberry's career through personal papers, gallery and museum files, professional files, personal business records, printed and digital material, photographs, artwork, and sound and video recordings about his work.
Personal papers include personal correspondence with friends and family and transcripts of interviews with Christenberry. Gallery and museum files mostly consist of correspondence, price lists, and records of exhibitions. Professional files shed light on Christenbery's relationship with various foundations, colleges and universities, his involvement in the renovation of the John A. Wilson Building in Washington, D.C., and his teaching tenure at the Corcoran College of Art and Design.
Personal business records document purchase of art supplies, and also include correspondence with collectors, sales records, permission forms, and papers concerning fellowships that Christenberry received. Printed materials include newspaper clippings and articles, solo and group exhibition material, and reproductions of Christenberry's work.
Photographs include several series of Christenberry's work and publicity photos of Christenberry. Artwork includes one sketchbook, and project sketches.
Recorded materials consist of sound, video, and digital recordings primarily of footage compiled during the creation of William A. Christenberry, Jr.: A Portrait (1997), produced by Stanley J. Staniski, and the making of The Place I know, Visions of the South (2003).
Found here are addresses, museum membership cards, an award and certificate, personal correspondence with friends and family, interview transcripts, a notebook of quotations on art and life, and writings about the artist. Also found in this series are papers concerning an accident Christenberry had as a youth, resulting in a significant loss of vision in one eye. The papers include correspondence, legal documents, and medical records.
Files consist primarily of correspondence, price lists, and exhibition material such as checklists, loan forms, clippings, and promotional material. Also found in this series are some inventories and information pertaining to the acquisition of Christenberry's artwork.
Professional files shed light on Christenberry's relationship with various foundations, colleges, and universities primarily through correspondence, contracts, and printed and digital material. This series contains information pertaining to Christenberry's involvement with the D.C. Commission on the Arts and Humanities on a renovation project of the John A. Wilson Building in the city. Also found here is information related to Christenberry's teaching tenure at the Corcoran College of Art and Design, including correspondence, exhibition materials, position appointments, and material from his celebration of life event. The series also includes scattered materials related to exhibitions and speaking engagements.
Folders may contain receipts, printed material, and other papers related to shipping, materials such as camera film, framing, and printing; correspondence and scant printed material from auctions that featured Christenberry work; correspondence with collectors; sales records; and permission forms. Also found in this series are papers related to Christenberry's Guggenheim Foundation Fellowship from 1984.
Found here are several editions of Alabama Magazine from the late 1940s; newspaper clippings and articles regarding Christenberry, his artwork, Alabama and the southern United States, other artists, and miscellaneous topics; and exhibition material from solo and group shows which include announcements, catalogs, brochures, and some posters. Also found in this series are artist cards and examples of Christenberry reproductions as well as publicity material for Christenberry's work with Anna Sloan, Adam's House in the Black Belt (2000).
Found in this series are images of several series of Christenberry's work, photographs and a digital video recording of an event in 1965, and photographs of the artist used for publicity purposes. Series also includes photos of Christenberry's family and friends, and a residence in Washington, D.C., taken on a Kodak Brownie camera, digital images from a posthumous exhibition in 2017, and slides of work by other artists.
Artwork includes one sketchbook; a small plastic pouch containing dozens of pencil-drawn eyeballs; and project sketches and a small piece of wood from miniature buildings that Christenberry created during his career.
This series includes sound, video, and digital recordings.
This series includes sound and video recordings and one digital video recording compiled during the creation of William A. Christenberry, Jr.: A Portrait (1997). The material includes footage of Christenberry, his home state of Alabama, interviews, lectures and talks, his studio, and artwork.
Found here are video and digital video recordings related to The Place I Know, Visions of the South (2003). The tapes include footage of Christenberry on the road, a family reunion, and other scenes from Christenberry's trips to Alabama.
Found here are video and digital video recordings from Christenberry's studio, homemade movies, lectures and interviews, and a couple of other third-party films Christenberry was involved in. Also found are some audio and digital audio recordings of interviews and lectures.
The Frederick Stuart Church letters and art work date from circa 1892-circa 1923 and measure 0.5 linear feet. The collection includes illustrated letters, all but three of which are written to Emma Louise Klots, regarding Church's daily activities and his paintings, as well as artwork by Church including etchings and reproductions of Church's paintings, some of which are printed as photogravures.
Letters number circa 74, all but three of which are written to Emma Louise Klots, with several fragments and valentines, and are almost all illustrated in a variety of media, primarily ink pen, pastel, and colored pencil. The often witty letters document Church's efforts to maintain humorous and friendly relationships with his collectors and are written primarily from his Carnegie Hall Building apartment in New York City, or from a country studio in Far Hills and elsewhere. The letters include accounts of financial difficulties and illnesses, and record some of Church's initial conceptions for paintings which are often previewed through sketches. Church also uses his favored cupid, dancing bear, and bluebird characters in sketches to illustrate his thoughts or depict his relationship with Klots and others.
Artwork and reproductions include: four etchings: 20 reproductions of paintings, most of which are printed as photogravures, and are often inscribed by Church to Mrs. B. N. Mitchell, a first cousin of Klots; and one photogravure of Church with a child.
This small collection of items of New York painter Frederick Stuart Church, measures 0.1 linear feet and dates from circa 1895-1905. It includes letters, some illustrated, from Church to various people, a sketch, and a photograph of one of Church's paintings.
Letters include three illustrated letters to Mike Gavin, in which Church describes himself as a bear and humorously addresses one letter to "Myrtle"; a letter to Mr. Hogan regarding an etching that Church made for him; an illustrated letter to W. F. Price; a letter to Mr. Putnam regarding Kenyon Cox; a letter to Mr. Van Allen regarding a work of art by Church that he suggested calling "Easter Morning"; a letter to an unidentified recipient regarding a female model; an illustrated note to an unknown recipient in which Church writes "This is a photo of a painting I gave to the Fund for relief of discharged employees of the Stock Exchange" with a photograph enclosed of the painting Mothers Return; and a signed sketch of a tiger by Church.
The Raymond Ciarrocchi papers measure 0.9 linear feet and date from 1953-2010. Correspondence and business records document Ciarrocchi's traveling exhibition, "The Nijinsky Series," and his relationships with Tibor de Nagy Gallery and Fischbach Gallery. Also found are four sketchbooks, a thesis about American landscape painting in which Ciarrocchi figures prominently, printed material, and photographs of Ciarrocchi.
The birth certificate is a copy. Grant and award documentation concerns Louis Comfort Tiffany Foundation, The Ingram Merrill Foundation, and The Pollock-Krasner Foundation, Inc.; a Macdowell Colony newsletter notes that Ciarrocchi, a recent Colony artist, was awarded a Fulbright Fellowship.
Among the personal correspondents are Karl E. Fortess, Ruth Page, and Edith Schloss. Professional letters are from galleries, colleges and schools, a few museums, the United States Department of State, and others.
A bound copy of a thesis on American landscape painting by Herbert Virgin White, in which Ciarrocchi figures prominently, is accompanied by a letter. The volume contains an inscription by the author to the artist thanking him for "inspiration, encouragement and interest."
This series documents consignments and gallery sales through Tibor de Nagy Gallery and Fischbach Gallery. Among the miscellaneous records are receipts for loans to museums and other institutions, and documentation of participation in exhibitions sponsored by Associated American Artists, the Art In Embassies Program, and Maine Coast Artists. Also found is detailed information about "The Nijinsky Series," a traveling exhibition of Ciarrocchi's monotypes.
Printed material relates almost exclusively to Ciarrocchi's exhibitions.
Oversized material housed in OV 3
Volume 1 features landscape, still life, and figure drawings in pencil, ink, and pastel. Volumes 2-4 are devoted to pencil and ink sketches of Japanese objects, architecture, and people.
Photographs are of Raymond Ciarrocchi in his studio, painting outdoors, at exhibitions, with his wife and daughter, and with a group of Macdowell Colony artists.
3 resumes; 1 photograph of Cicero, 1 photograph and 16 slides of Cicero's art work; and printed material.
Slides; sketchbooks; scrapbook; award certificates; and photographs.
UNMICROFILMED: 20 color slides of paintings by Cipriani.
REEL 3026: 9 sketchbooks with notes; a scrapbook containing biographical data, letters, and exhibition catalogs; citations and award certificates; photographs of works of art; an inventory of serigraphs; and a contract with the Vestart Gallery, 1972.
The papers of painter, printmaker and muralist Minna Wright Citron measure 1.3 linear feet and date from 1930 to 1980. Found are scattered biographical materials, correspondence, writings for articles and lectures, printed material, photographs, and artwork.
Biographical materials include short biographical sketches, resumes, and printed pamphlets for Casper Citron's run for the United States House of Representatives.
Correspondence is with family, friends, and colleagues. Letters from the 1940s discuss her murals in Newport and Manchester, Tennessee. Other correspondents include the American Color Print Society and the U.S. Department of State which helped to organize her international exhibitions. Also found are typescripts of letters Citron wrote to family while in Paris in 1947.
Writings include notes and outlines for lectures and articles on art by Citron. Printed materials include many exhibition announcements and catalogs for her exhibitions in the United States and abroad, some of which are annotated. There are portraits and snapshots of Citron and of Citron with her art, as well as photographs of events, family, friends, exhibitions, studio spaces, and Citron's artwork. Also found are pencil sketches, ink sketches, an etching, a woodblock print, and two lithographs.
A letter concerning a painting Luks sent to Clancy and some watercolors he intended to work on. [The microfilm title is George Luks papers.]
The scattered papers of illustrator and artists' model Judith Clancy measure 0.7 linear feet and date from 1949 to 1977. Largely arranged by Clancy, the papers focus on her work as an illustrator. Found are biographical materials, books edited and written by Clancy, correspondence, photographs, printed material, sketches, and cards designed by Clancy.
Arranged by Clancy, biographical materials include a resume and files regarding Clancy's early career in France and New York City as a student, dancer, model, and theater participant. Materials include photographs, printed materials, cards, and television scripts. Of note is a contact sheet of images of Clancy posing and applying makeup. There are also two files regarding published books written or edited by Clancy, including Bastard in the Ragged Suit: Writings of, with Drawings by Herman Spector, edited by Bud Johns and Judith Clancy and Last Look at the Old Met. Files include additional printed material, notes, and scattered letters.
Correspondence is from artists, writers, and friends including Emmy Lou Packard, James Prestini, and Victor Steinbrueck. Also found are letters relating to the death of Moses Soyer, some of which are photocopies. Portraits of Clancy and photographs of exhibitions are from Clancy's time in California. Printed materials consist of cards designed by Clancy, clippings, exhibition material, and issues of California Living Magazine. Also found are sketches of artists. Of note is a sketch and attached photograph of Peter Bailey.
Biographical material; correspondence, 1937-1957, with Pierre Jacquemon and others; an illustrated notebook; lists of works of art with disposition information; a scrapbook containing two letters from Hans Hofmann, 1936 and 1956, and printed material; exhibition announcements and catalogs; clippings and printed material; and photographs of Clark in her studio and with others, and of her works of art.
Correspondence, 1888-1934, concerning Clark's paintings and exhibitions; a list of paintings owned by Congressman Brewer, handwritten by Clark; exhibition catalogs and announcements of the School of Industrial Design, Trenton, New Jersey, the Society of American Artists, New York City, the World's Columbian Exposition, 1893, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, the National Academy of Design, New York City, and the American Society of Miniature Painters; an etching by William Merritt Chase; a paper fan from the Philadelphia Centennial Exhibition, 1876; and clippings and miscellaneous printed material.
The scrapbooks of Thomas Benedict Clarke measure 3.6 linear feet and date from 1879-1930. Twelve scrapbooks contain mostly newspaper clippings, but also include correspondence, invitations, exhibition catalogs, programs, magazine articles, art auction catalogs, and other material relating to Clarke's personal art collection and general art patronage. The scrapbooks also include clippings and miscellany relating to the Clarke family and influential society clubs, such as the Union League, Lambs, and New York Athletic clubs.
Scrapbook 1 dates from 1880-1884 and includes information about the Lincoln Club, the Century Association, Motto Club, Rembrandt Club, Merchants Club, Art Club, and Union League Club. Scrapbook 2 dates from 1883-1884 and includes an index of artists in the Clarke art collection, as well as information about the artists. Scrapbook 3 dates from 1887-1889 and includes information about artists Vasily Vereshchagin and Antoine Louis-Barye. Scrapbook 5 dates from 1891-1894 and contains clippings about the Clarke Prize, the opening of Clarke's "Art House" in Manhattan, New York, the 1891 Clarke exhibition at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, the 1892 Columbian Loan Exhibition, and the 1893 Worlds' Columbian Exhibition. Scrapbook 6 dates from 1891-1902 and includes clippings regarding the art and auction sales of Greek, Continental, Persian, and Oriental antiquities, rugs, and porcelains. Scrapbook 7 dates from 1894-1898 and covers Clarke's support of Justice Frederick Smyth, his parents' 50th anniversary celebration, his daughter's society introduction reception, and events at the Lambs and Union League Clubs. Scrapbook 8 dates from 1894-1920 and houses announcements of the George Inness memorial exhibition, coverage of the Inness 1895 estate auction sale, copies of correspondence between Inness and Clarke, and two original photographs of Inness' studio. Scrapbook 9 is dated 1899-1900 and includes coverage of events at clubs, particularly the Lambs and Union League clubs, the Clarke Prize, Paris Exposition, Dewey Arch, and the private art collection of William T. Evans. Scrapbook 10 dates from 1899-1936 and consists primarily of coverage of the 1899 Clarke art auction to fund the National Academy of Design's Clarke prize. Scrapbook 11 dates from 1900-1902 and covers Clarke's Hampton cottage, his daughter's marriage and divorce suit, the New York School of Design for Women, and the Academy of Design annual exhibition. Scrapbook 12 is dated from 1899-1918 contains clippings regarding William Tilden Evans, a contemporary art collector and friend of Clarke's.
A 670 page annotated index of Books 1-6 and Books 10-12 is available on microfilm reels N598-N599.
Book 1 (1880-1884, 73 pages) consists of clippings regarding art news and events, the National Academy of Design's Clarke award, coverage of private art collections and auctions, exhibition openings, artists, art related charity events, and art museums and societies. There is one booklet of the Lincoln Club's charter and by-laws, and additional miscellaneous printed material related to the Century Association, Motto Club, Rembrandt Club, Merchants Club, Art Club, and Union League Club.
Book 2 (1883-1884, 241 pages) contains an index of artists in the Clarke art collection. It lists the titles of works owned and includes artists' biographical information and clippings regarding specific works of art. Coverage related to the National Academy of Design's Clarke prize, including the 1883 fundraising exhibition of the Clarke collection, is also included.
Book 3 (1887-1889, 27 pages) consists of clippings regarding art news and events, exhibition openings, and artists, including Vasily Vereshchagin and Antoine Louis-Barye. There is also news coverage of the New York Athletic Club.
Book 4 (1889-1891, 70 pages) consists of clippings regarding the art related and general activities of the Union League and New York Athletic clubs. There is also news coverage of Clarke's art collection.
Book 5 (1891-1894, 242 pages) includes clippings regarding Clarke's art collection and the Clarke Prize, the opening of Clarke's "Art House" in Manhattan, New York, the 1891 Clarke exhibition at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, the 1892 Columbian Loan Exhibition, and the 1893 Worlds' Columbian Exhibition. There is one annotated catalog of the 1894 A.H. Wyant Collection at the 5th Avenue Art Galleries, and news coverage of art auctions, exhibition openings, and events at the Union League, New York Athletic, Metropolitan, and Lambs clubs.
Book 6 (1891-1902, 234 pages) consists of clippings regarding the art and auction sales of Greek, Continental, Persian, and Oriental antiquities, rugs, and porcelains. There is also coverage of the Clarke collection and exhibition openings.
Book 7 (1894-1898, 337 pages) includes coverage of Clarke's support of Justice Frederick Smyth, his parents' 50th anniversary celebration, his daughter's society introduction reception, the theft of silverware from his residence, and events at the Rembrandt, Lotos, Colonial, Manhattan, New York Athletic, Heights, and Century clubs. Extensive coverage is given to the Lambs and Union League Clubs, including several art exhibition catalogs. Clippings covering art related events and news are also included.
Book 8 (1894-1920, 198 pages) consists of clippings related to George Inness, including obituaries and remembrances, announcements of the Inness memorial exhibition, and coverage of the Inness 1895 estate auction sale. A catalog of the 1895 auction sale, copies of correspondence between Inness and Clarke, two original photographs of Inness' studio, and additional auction sales lists from 1904 and 1911 are also included.
Book 9 (1899-1900, 175 pages) includes coverage of events at the Brooklyn, Clover, Democratic, Lincoln, and Manhattan clubs, with extensive coverage given to the Lambs and Union League clubs. Clippings covering the Clarke Prize, Paris Exposition, Dewey Arch, the private art collection of William T. Evans, and the non-segregation policies of the New York School of Applied Design for Women are also included.
Book 10 (1899-1936, 326 pages) consists primarily of coverage of the 1899 Clarke art auction to fund the National Academy of Design's Clarke prize. Articles describe highlights in the 375 piece collection and provide coverage and analysis of the sales at the American Art Association galleries. Printed announcements of the auction and a copy of the auction catalog are included. From 1910-1930, there are clippings regarding the art of Winslow Homer, Albert Ryder, and George Stuart. From 1912-1936, there are articles on George Stuart's paintings of Washington, clippings regarding the exhibition of Clarke's collection of American portraits from the 17th-19th century, and the 1936 purchase of this collection by Knoedler and Company.
Book 11 (1900-1902, 173 pages) consists of coverage of Clarke's Hampton cottage, his daughter's marriage and divorce suit, and events at the Manhattan, Lambs, and Union League clubs. Clippings related to the playwright Charles Hoyt, the New York School of Design for Women, the Academy of Design annual exhibition, and various charity benefits and art auctions are also included.
Book 12 (1899-1918, 98 pages) is a book of clippings regarding William Tilden Evans, a contemporary art collector and friend of Clarke's. It includes coverage and analysis of Evans' 1900 art collection auction, prices paid, and printed materials related to the auction sale. Later material includes a catalog of Evans' exhibition at the Union League Club in 1903, clippings regarding Evans' suit against the art dealer William Clausen from 1908-1910, a second art auction in 1913, Evans' creditor's suit against artists in 1917, and obituaries and remembrances of Evans in 1918.
Letters from Clarke to his parents describing his life in Paris; letters to Clarke regarding exhibitions, sales and casting of his sculptures.
The papers of painter, etcher, printer, muralist, and art teacher Gabrielle de Veaux Clements measure 1 linear foot and date from 1860 to 1948. Found within the papers are biographical material; personal and professional correspondence, including extensive correspondence from Clements to her mother; writings, including notes and essays on art history and etching techniques; printed material; artwork; 8 sketchbooks; and photographs of Clements, her family and friends, and her work.
Biographical material consists of an address book, artwork sales and price lists, and autobiographical notes.
Correspondence is primarily with Clements' family, friends, and business associates. The series includes significant correspondence from Clements to her mother during her college years at Cornell University.
Writings include notes and essays on art history and etching techniques, 2 notebooks of poetry, and a travel diary chronicling a trip to Egypt with Ellen Day Hale.
Printed material includes clippings, exhibition catalogs, a map of the artists' colony at Rockport, Folly Cove in Massachusetts, and a copy of the book Suggestions for Illuminating by W. Randle Harrison.
Artwork consists of sketches and original etchings by Clements and artwork by others.
There are 8 sketchbooks consisting primarily of cityscapes, landscapes, and figure and portrait studies.
Photographs are of Clements, her family and friends, artists models, and work by Clements and others.
Biographical material consists of an address book, artwork sales and price lists, and autobiographical notes.
Correspondence is primarily with Clements' family, friends, and business associates. The series includes significant correspondence from Clements to her mother during her college years at Cornell University, as well as correspondence from the printer and publisher Charles W. Ames. There is also a carbon copy of a 1945 letter from the sculptor Walker Hancock to his father describing the retrieval of art works confiscated by the Nazis.
Writings include notes and essays on art history and etching techniques, 2 notebooks of poetry by Clements and Ellen Day Hale, and a 1930 travel diary chronicling a trip to Egypt with Ellen Day Hale.
Printed material consists of clippings; exhibition catalogs; a map of the artists' colony at Rockport, Folly Cove in Massachusetts; a copy of the book Suggestions for Illuminating by W. Randle Harrison; and a postcard of St. Philip's Church.
Artwork consists of sketches and original etchings by Clements, a copy of Durer's "St. Jerome in His Study," and a print, possibly by Lilian Westcott Hale.
There are 8 sketchbooks consisting of cityscapes, landscapes, figure and portrait studies, animal and nature studies, and mural designs.
Photographs are of Clements and her family and friends, including travel snapshots from the Black Oaks neighborhood in Charleston, South Carolina, and travel photographs from Egypt, France, and Italy. The series also includes snapshots of artist models and scenes, photographs of artwork by Clements, and photographs of 45 paintings and sketches by Lilian Wescott Hale.
Files of ca. 37 artists, American and foreign, who were commissioned by the Cleveland Print Club to make a print for their membership. Files include correspondence between individual artists and the Curator of Prints at the Cleveland Museum of Art. Some files also contain photographs, lists of works, exhibition data, and clippings.
The papers of New York painter William Clutz measure 3.1 linear feet and date from 1930-2016. The collection consists of biographical material, correspondence, personal business records, printed material, photographic material, artworks, and twelve sketchbooks which illuminate the career and artistic development of Clutz, a painter known for depictions of figures in urban settings. The photographic material is particularly robust and includes hundreds of photographs, slides, transparencies, and digital images of Clutz, family, friends, his painting, as well as documentation of exhibition installations. Artwork and sketchbooks in pencil, pastel, and charcoal provide a glimpse into the preliminary stages of his work process.
Biographical material dates from 1930-2015 and includes biographical notes, resumes, awards, as well as one folder of photographs and clippings related to his family and one related to his longtime partner, John F. Sheehy. One unpublished writing about Clutz is also filed here.
Correspondence dates from circa 1946-2015 and is both personal and professional in nature. Early correspondence includes several letters Clutz wrote to his parents while in college, some describing his paintings. Professional correspondence is with galleries, museums, critics, and others regarding exhibition planning and logistic, gifts, loans, and sales. Scattered among the correspondence are contracts, loan agreements, and sales invoices.
Personal business records date from 1967-2015 and consist of documentation relating to the conservation, exhibitions, sales, gifts, and photographic reproduction of Clutz's works.
Printed material dates from 1949-2012 and documents Clutz's professional career and exhibition history through announcements, clippings, exhibition catalogs, periodicals, press releases, price lists, and other types of printed matter.
The photographic material dates from circa 1940-2016 and includes primarily photographs and digital photographs with a few slides and transparencies. One folder contains photographs of Clutz throughout all stages of his life and with family and friends. Several folders contains photographs and digital photographs of his artwork throughout his career. Exhibition and installation photographs are arranged chronologically and document Clutz's exhibitions through the decades, including those at Bertha Schaefer Gallery, Brooke Alexander Gallery, Alonzo Gallery, Tatistcheff Gallery, Katharina Rich Perlow Gallery, and others. The last folder contains a few photographs that were used as source material for a painting.
Oversized photographs housed in OV 6
Includes born digital material, see ER01
Includes born digital material, see ER02
Artworks date from circa 1960-2000 and include sketches in pencil, charcoal, and pastel, as well as a few paintings. Some works are preliminary studies for larger works, including street scenes occupied by groups of figures, while others are casual subjects in his everyday life including his cat and partner John F. Sheehy.
Twelve sketchbooks date from circa 1955-1990 and are filled with hundreds of sketches in pencil, charcoal, and watercolor. Some sketches illustrate Clutz's preparatory thinking for finished works and others were completed as part of a technical demonstration in one of his courses. Subjects range from exterior to domestics scenes to portraits. A few pages contain logistical notes pertaining to his courses.
A scrapbook containing ca. 10 letters received, 1970's; exhibition announcements and catalogs, including those of her daughter, Tinka Tarver; clippings; family memorabilia; printed material; and ca. 20 photographs of Cocke, her family and friends, and her works of art.
Biographical material; 167 letters received by Coen and Kahn, 1942-1969; exhibition catalogs and announcements, 1943-1975; photographs of prints by both Coen and Kahn; and a few clippings.
Correspondence relating to the repair and preservation Cohen's sculpture by George Rickey, including a photocopy of a letter, Feb. 2, 1977, from Cohen to Rickey concerning Rickey's repair on the damaged sculpture, which Cohen feels "caused it to lose some of its grace. The arts no longer taper to as delicate a point..."; a 2 p. reply from Rickey, Apr. 7, justifying his method of repair, telling Cohen "you should give the piece as a whole a chance to re-assert its qualities of choreography and performance, which are still exactly what they were, but now far more secure"; and a memo from the George Rickey Workshop on "Surface Discoloration of Stainless Steel Sculptures in Maritime Climates."
Charles Caryl Coleman photographs of works of art include over 100 professional photographs of works of art mostly by Coleman and a few of Coleman and his studio, with many photographs inscribed to C.A. Coleman, Coleman's mother. Some of the photographs of works include information on the date, location, and patron of the work of art depicted.
William Dunlap's History of the rise and progress of the arts of design in the United States (George P. Scott and Co., N.Y., 1834). Volume II contains Cole's signature inside the front cover and his handwritten reaction to Dunlap's biography of him (p. 350-367), written in light pencil. Accompanying the texts is a photocopy of transcriptions of Cole's notes, compiled by Bard McNulty(?).
The papers of painter, printmaker, educator and administrator Ed Colker are dated 1944-2020 and measure 3.4 linear feet. Colker's painting, printmaking, and Haybarn Press, as well as his career as an art teacher and university administrator, are documented through biographical materials, correspondence, interviews, writings, subject files, printed material, and photographs. There is a 0.2 linear ft. addition to the collection donated in 2020 that includes lists of works of art, exhibition information, letters to Colker, talks and lecutres by Colker, printed material and miscellany.
Biographical materials include official letters regarding Colker's performance in the Army, caricatures of him, diplomas, resume, awards, and certificates.
Correspondence, mainly professional in nature with a few scattered personal letters, concerns Colker's academic and artistic work, Haybarn Editions, exhibitions, projects, and various interests. Poet correspondents are J. Curtis Johnson, Kathleen Norris, Deborah Pease, and Jeanne Walker; translators include Melvin Konner and others.
Interviews with Ed Colker, conducted between 1982 and 2008 for various purposes, are preserved as 1 sound cassette and published transcripts. Also found are 1 sound cassette, 1 videocassette, and a published transcript of interviews Colker conducted with Will Barnet and Toshiko Takaezu in 1981 and 1994 respectively.
Among Colker's writings are the published versions of several articles and the manuscript of an unpublished one; two proposed books for students of design and typography; lectures delivered to students (3 videocassettes), miscellaneous writings, notes, and 1 videocassette of readings by artists from one of Colker's Haybarn Press poetry portfolios.
Subject files document many of Colker's professional interests, activities, projects, and relationships. Also of note are files about Haybarn Press.
The bulk of the printed material consists of exhibition catalogs, announcements, and school catalogs. Almost all is about or mentions Colker, or features reproductions of his work. Of note is the first and only issue of Re-Art: A Reflection of Current Ideas on the Arts (1954), published by Colker and Gene Feldman.
Photographs are of Colker and his family; Colker at events related to his artistic, academic, and publishing activities; artwork by Colker, and his work as reproduced in Haybarn Editions. Also found are an exterior view of the barn studio and one of printers working at Desjobert Press.
This series includes two letters of commendation from the 349th Infantry Headquarters, diplomas, a resume, and two printed caricatures of Colker by students. Also found are various awards and certificates including The Academy of American Poets membership certificate identifying Colker as a founding member. Several items are photocopies.
Correspondence, mainly professional in nature with a few scattered personal letters, concerns Colker's academic and artistic work, Haybarn Editions, exhibitions, projects, and various interests. It includes arrangements for lectures, artist in residence appointments, jurying exhibitions, and consulting. Among the correspondents are universities, libraries, galleries, museums; poetry, printmaking, and book arts organizations, as well as groups relevant to his work as an artist, educator, and university administrator. Poet correspondents are J. Curtis Johnson, Kathleen Norris, Deborah Pease, and Jeanne Walker; translators include Melvin Konner and others.
The 1982 interview with Ed Colker was published in The Load, SUNY College at Purchase's student newspaper as part of a feature story about a three-day campus event, "A Celebration of the Book as Art." The interview Irving Sandler conducted with Ed Colker (1 sound cassette) took place in New York City during the summer of 1985 while Colker's exhibition was on view at Neuberger Museum, Purchase, NY; in 1999, its transcript was published in conjunction with the exhibition Ed Colker: Prints for Poetry and Prose (1990 June 26 – August 3) at the University Art Gallery, State University of New York at Albany. Robert McCamant's interview of Colker was published as "Caxtonians Collect: Ed Colker" in the May 2008 issue of Caxtonian, the club's newsletter.
An interview Colker conducted with Will Barnet (1 sound cassette) was published as "Reflections on Fifty Years of Teaching: An Interview with Will Barnet," part of an article titled "Independent Art Schools: Traditions and Departures," Art Journal (Spring 1982). The Toshiko Takaezu interview (1 videocassette), which Colker conducted for Cooper Union students, took place at her studio/home in New Jersey.
Writings by Colker include: printed versions of articles and the manuscript of an unpublished article about printmaking in the U.S.; two proposed books for students of design and typography; 3 videocassettes of lectures delivered to students at the University of Illinois, Chicago Circle, Pratt Institute, and University of the Arts, and other venues; miscellaneous writing; panel discussion notes; a videocassette of artists reading from one of Colker's poetry portfolios.
Subject files maintained by Colker document many of his professional interests, activities, projects, and relationships. Files are comprised of correspondence, printed material, writings, photographs and miscellaneous items in varying combinations. Of particular interest is the file concerning the Art Journal Editing Project. Colker was guest editor of an issue on "Education of the Artist." The file includes responses from Pat Adams, Lawrence Alloway, Eleanor Antinova, Grace Hartigan, Vera Klement, Philip Pearlstein, Peter Plagens and Martin Puryear, to the question: "What are you saying or introducing as major currents to students today that have changed from a few years ago and what events or dynamics have generated your reconsiderations? (If you are holding and reinforcing constants, please indicate that, too.)" Other subjects of interest include Haybarn Press; poets Michael A. Anina, Catherine Kasper, and Kathleen Norris; and Dave Brubeck, whose music inspired a Haybarn Edition. This series contains one audiovisual recording titled "National Endowment for the Arts/Getty Art Program Tape," the pilot for a proposed PBS television program on the arts for children and their parents for which Colker served as a consultant.
Almost all printed material is about or mentions Colker, or includes reproductions of his work. Miscellaneous items include press releases, announcements of benefit auctions, notice of an international competition for which Colker was a juror. School catalogs are from years and institutions where Colker was a student, teacher, or administrator. Publications produced by Colker are a photocopy of the first and only issue of Re-Art: A Reflection of Current Ideas on the Arts (1954), published by Colker and Gene Feldman, and Architectural Photographs by Richard Nickel.
Views of Colker and family prior to the 1960s are either color photocopies or prints of scanned images. There is a photograph of Colker in a life drawing class at the Philadelphia Museum School of Industrial Art and several views of him in Italy with the 349th Infantry, 88th Division during and soon after World War II, and in his studio. He appears alone and with students, colleagues, friends, and wife Elaine Galen. Many photographs record Colker at events related to his artistic, academic, and publishing activities. Other photographs are of artwork by Colker and his work as reproduced in Haybarn Editions. Exterior views of the barn studio and Desjobert Press are digital prints.
Correspondence and records regarding the Index of American Design, Federal Art Project, Federal Recreation Project, National Symphony Orchestra Summer Concerts, Washington Summer Concerts Association; New York World's Fair, National Fact Finders Exhibition, Federal Writer's Project, Federal Music Project, Federal Theater Project, and the movement for permanent government art programs.
Administrative records, correspondence and exhibition files, and printed material.
Loan: Administrative records, 1919-1974, including the Memorandum of Affiliation and Resolutions (1926) whereby the Broadmoor Art Academy became the Arts Department of Colorado College, Colorado Springs; files, 1925-1955, of Broadmoor Art Academy Director Stanley Stoner and Colorado Springs Fine Arts Center Directors Stanley Lothrop, Paul Parker, Mitchell A. Wilder, and James B. Byrnes containing correspondence with artists and organizations, financial records, annual reports, insurance reports, price lists, exhibition lists, membership lists, clippings, exhibition catalogs, press releases, art school applications, contracts, and photographs; exhibition files, 1945-1955, containing correspondence, lists of artists participating in exhibitions, artists' biographies, installation lists, price lists, drafts of catalog essays, shipping receipts, invoices, loan forms, clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, press releases, and photographs of works of art; calendars of events, 1936-1958, and exhibition catalogs for "New Accessions USA," 1946-1974.
Annual reports, 1970 and 1976; corporate reports, 1981 and 1982; a Governor's Award program, 1979; decorative arts catalog from the Golden Gate Exposition, 1939; 11 biennial catalogs, 1950-1972; and miscellaneous catalogs.
Parrish writes accepting an invitation to join Phi Beta Kappa of Haverford.
Kristin Congdon research material regarding Ruby C. Williams and Florida folk artists measures 2.0 linear foot and dates from circa 1997-2019. Included are letters from Ruby Williams to Kristin Congdon (1997-2003); slides of Williams, events and works of art; photographs of Williams with others; brochures, announcements, newspaper clippings and flyers about Williams; and a flash drive of photographs of William's gallery openings taken by David Congdon, Kristin's husband; and interviews and photographs on seven DVDs created by Congdon in 2006 regarding nine folk artists based in Florida. Artists include Jan M. Zebrowski, Nicario Jiménez, Ginger Lavoie, Wayne and Marty Scott, Ruby C. Williams, Kurt Zimmerman, Lilly Carrasquillo, "Diamond" Jim Parker, and Taft Richardson. DVDs were used in Congdon's co-authored book, Just Above the Water: Florida Folk Art, University of Mississippi Press, 2006, subsequently used to create Folkvine.org, an experiment on how to present folk artists using new technology.
Also included are audio cassettes tapes, slides, correspondence, and other writings regarding Smith for a Congdon's research grant "Jules Andre Smith: The Man and his Community" funded by the Scholars/Humanity Florida Humanities Council in 1998.
Biographical materials, correspondence, notebooks, diaries, writings, sketches and drawings, photographs, and printed material.
REEL 983: Four notebooks, 1910-1935, containing descriptions of stained glass windows in Europe; biographical information; a typescript of an article on Connick, "The Education of an Artist in Brother Sun's Workshop"; and three photographs, one of Connick's Boston studio, one of his home in Newtonville, Mass, and one of a Christmas card design, 1930.
REEL 2802: Biographical sketch; photographs, including five of Connick at work, four of others at work at his studio, and one of a bust of Connick sculpted by Frederick Allen in front of one of his windows; and a reprint of Connick's article "Stained Glass Windows: The Craft."
REELS 3947-3948: Correspondence, undated and 1918-1946; a transcript of an interview with Connick by V. S. Bright, May 10, 1945; writings by Connick on foreign stained glass, undated; 2 sets of lecture notes; an "In Memorium Booklet" for Connick; writings by others, three sketchbooks and loose sketches by Connick; clippings, 1916- 1949; programs and brochures relating to Connick, 1923-1940; printed material, 1901-1945; photographs of Connick, undated and 1902; and photographs of works of art.
UNMICROFILMED: Biographical material containing notes about the Connick family written by the Coombs relatives; address books; a daily diary with notes by Connick, passports and visas; correspondence, 1908-1945, primarily between Charles and his wife Mabel while Connick traveled throughout the United States working on stained glass projects in churches, and in which he discusses his book "Adventures in Light and Color," correspondence with his publisher about his book; letters of condolence, 1945-1946, to Mabel; 11 sketchbooks with sketches done in watercolor, colored pencil, and pencil (the sketchbooks are called "Telephone sketchbooks," done while on the telephone); Christmas cards designed by Connick; photographs of Connick, Connick with Mabel, and family, and friends, travel photos from trips to Europe; and printed material.
Correspondents include: Robert Peters Aldrich, Frank Buxton, Paul Child, Ralph Adams Cram, Peter Dyer, Malvina Hoffman, Paul Kimball, Bill and Vaugh Redfern Mason (Connick's nephews), Joseph Reynolds, Jr., Elizabeth Madox Roberts, Winfield Scott, Harlow Shapley, Orin Skinner, Gilbert Symons, John Weber, and Stark Young.
Biographical material; correspondence of Jay H. and Louise B. Connaway, 1922-1979, with the Macbeth Gallery, Edna and Frank Spencer, friends, students of Jay Connaway Art School, and others; notes; sketches, sketchbooks, and oil paintings; financial material; files of the Southern Vermont Art Center; scrapbooks containing printed material; letters and photographs; correspondence from the Veteran's Administration regarding Connaway's students studying under the G.I. Bill; photographs and photograph albums of Connaway, his family, and works of art; printed material; 12 tapes (5") of Jay and Louise Connaway and others discussing their careers, and a partially transcribed interview (19 p.) of Jay Connaway conducted by his wife, Louise Connaway, October 1969; and miscellany.
ADDITION: 50 oil paintings and sketches by Connaway; 1 oil sketch by Fritz Talbot; letters, including condolence letters; income tax returns; lists of expenses; minutes of trustees' meetings of Southern Vermont Art Center (1960-1967): and printed material.
The Olga Constantine papers relating to James Lee Byars date from circa 1953-circa 1964 and 1997, and consist primarily of letters to Constantine from her friend, conceptual and performance artist James Lee Byars. The bulk of the letters were written while Byars was studying art in Japan. The 1997 item is a copy of an obituary for Byars. Also included in the papers are 7 slides of artwork.
The papers of art historian and museum curator W.G. (William George) Constable measure 25.7 linear feet and date from 1905 to 1981, with the bulk of the material from 1920 to 1976. The papers include biographical material; professional and personal correspondence; extensive lectures, writings, and notes; exhibition and book research files; printed materials; and photographs, glass plate negatives, and slides. There is substantive correspondence related to Constable's participation in the American Defense Harvard Group and about the formation of the Roberts Commission, including correspondence with Ralph Perry, Hugh Hencken, Paul Sachs and George L. Stout. There are numerous official reports prepared by Constable after World War II for the U. S. Office of Military Government for Germany.
Biographical material includes W.G. Constable's curriculum vitae; club memberships; personal, educational, and military records; three memorial essays and obituaries; five address books; appointment books dating from 1930-1968; and financial records related to personal business travels.
Correspondence is mostly professional and arranged into General, Committee, Condolences, and J.G. Links. General correspondence is with friends, business associates, auction houses, galleries, and museums. The letters cover a wide variety of professional work, such as research projects, letters of inquiry and recommendation, and work done for Christie's and the Internal Revenue Service. Correspondents include Mortimer Brandt, Helen Frick, Helen Gluck, William Ivins, Duncan Phillips, Paul Sachs, and Rudolph Vasalle, among many others.
Committee related correspondence includes letters, memoranda, and reports related to ongoing committee objectives, projects, and routine activities. There is correspondence related to Constable's advisory work with the Art Gallery of Toronto, the National Gallery of Canada, and the Watts Gallery, among other projects. Condolences consists of letters and cards received by Constable's wife, Olivia, after Constable's death. Correspondence with J.G. Links is primarily about the second edition revision of Constable's book Canaletto.
There are over 170 drafts of Constable's notes and outlines for lectures. Topics range from 13th-20th century European and American art to museum conservation, ethics, art education, and art collecting. The series also includes lecture notes from organized touring trips to Canada, Northern Europe, Scandinavia, and Poland.
Writings consist of Constable's published and unpublished articles, articles submitted for the Encyclopedia of World Art, essays, notes, exhibition catalogs, translations, and drafts and research material related to Art Collecting in the United States, Art History and Connoisseurship, and The Painter's Workshop.
Files specifically documenting Constable's advisory role in the World War II American Defense Harvard Group drafting and organizing lists of men with curatorial, museum conservation, or library/archives backgrounds to aid in the protection European most valued cultural artifacts, artwork, and architecture. There are letters documenting the formation of the Harvard Group and its goals and objections. The files also include many of the original lists that were forwarded to the Commission for the Protection and Salvage of Artistic and Historic Monuments in Europe, also known as the Roberts Commission, eventually leading to the formation of the U.S. Army's Monuments, Fine Arts, and Archives division. The series also includes the Harvard Group's manual Safeguarding and Conserving Cultural Materials in the Field, committee minutes, and clippings related to their work. Correspondents include Ralph Perry, Paul Sachs, George L. Stout, and Hugh Hencken.
Constable's work after the war for the U.S. Office of Military Government for Germany is documented through numerous reports, memoranda, letters, and other official documents from the U. S. Army to Constable about surveying the state of German and Italian art institutions after World War II. The series also includes Constable's notebook "Visits in Germany" (1949), and a copy of his report Art and Reorientation: Status and Future of Museums and the Teaching of Art in Western Germany.
Exhibition files contain correspondence, notes, lists, research material, and reports related to exhibitions that Constable organized prior to his employment by and after his retirement from the Boston Museum of Art.
Research files contain materials relevant to Constable's interests and include notes, lists, correspondence, and printed and photographic reference material. These subject areas cover artists, including extensive files on Canaletto and other vedute painters, museum conservation, museums and galleries, private and public art collections, and schools of art.
Printed materials include clippings, programs, book excerpts and other miscellaneous printed materials.
Photographic materials include prints of Constable with friends and family, as well as prints, glass negatives and slides of artwork. There are also prints of the Fogg Art Museum's interiors and exterior and interior shots of Tennessee Valley Authority dam projects.
This series includes W.G. Constable's curriculum vitae, club memberships, and personal, educational, and military records, including passports, university exams and degrees, and a hair sample. The series also includes obituaries and three memorial essays written by friends and family; five address books; daily appointment books dating from 1930-1968; and financial records related to personal business travels.
Oversized material housed in Box 28, Folder 1.
Correspondence is primarily with Constable's friends and business associates discussing personal research projects, professional and committee related work, and letters of condolences.
Correspondence includes letters to friends and business associates discussing personal scholarly research, book projects, museum conservation techniques, letters of inquiry and recommendation, general appraisal requests, and work done for Christie's and the Internal Revenue Service. Correspondents of note include Helen Frick, Duncan Phillips, and Paul Sachs.
Oversized material housed in OV 29.
Correspondence includes letters, memoranda, and reports related to ongoing committee objectives, projects, and routine activities. This sub-series also includes correspondence, updates, and recommendations related to Constable's advisory work with the Art Gallery of Toronto, Beaverbrook Art Gallery, National Gallery of Canada, and the Watts Gallery.
Oversized material housed in OV 29.
Oversized material housed in Box 28, Folder 2.
Correspondence consists of letters and cards from friends and family sent to Constable's wife, Olivia, after Constable's death in 1976.
Correspondence is between J.G. Links and Constable regarding the first edition of Constable's Canaletto, as well as proposed edits and changes to the second edition of the book.
Found here are over 170 drafts of Constable's lectures, and supporting notes and outlines. Topics range from surveys of 13th-20th century European and American art to museum conservation, ethics, art education, art collecting, and connoisseurship. There are numerous lectures on English and Italian painting, in addition to lectures on German, French, and American painting traditions. A handful of lectures on individual artists such as John Constable, Joseph Turner, Richard Wilson, Rubens, and Valasquez can also be found. The series also includes Constable's lecture notes from organized touring trips to Canada, Northern Europe, Scandinavia, and Poland.
Writings consist of Constable's published articles on art, exhibition catalog introductions, and articles submitted for the Encyclopedia of World Art. Essay drafts include writings and translations from Constable's early university years, in addition to later essays that touch on concerns of museum curatorship. The series also includes miscellaneous writing notes, bibliographies, and drafts and research material related to Art Collecting in the United States, Art History and Connoisseurship, and The Painter's Workshop.
American Defense Harvard Group includes materials related to Constable's advisory work in drafting and organizing lists of men with curatorial, museum conservation, or library/archives backgrounds to aid in the identification, protection, and restoration of cultural artifacts during World War II. Correspondence with Ralph Perry, Paul Sachs, George Stout, and Hugh Hencken document the rationale for forming the Harvard Group, trace the formation of its goals and objectives, and includes many of the original lists that were generated and forwarded to the Commission for the Protection and Salvage of Artistic and Historic Monuments in Europe, also known as the Roberts Commission. The series also includes the Harvard Group's manual Safeguarding and Conserving Cultural Materials in the Field, committee minutes and reports, and clippings related to their work.
Robert's Commission established by President Roosevelt
Office of Military Government for Germany comprises of materials related to Constable's work surveying the state of German and Italian art institutions after World War II. Correspondence includes memoranda and fact sheets from the U.S. Army to Constable, letters arranging visits to and from German cultural institutions, and updates on the logistics of travel and salary. The series also includes a transcript of a radio interview with Constable in 1949, Constable's notebook "Visits in Germany" (1949), a copy of his report Art and Reorientation: Status and Future of Museums and the Teaching of Art in Western Germany, and additional notes, miscellaneous reports, and printed material tangentially related to the project.
Correspondence, notes, lists, research material, and reports document exhibitions organized by Constable prior to his employment at and after his retirement from the Boston Museum of Art. There is substantial correspondence related to the traveling Canaletto exhibition (1964) and to the tentatively titled Fakes and Forgeries exhibition, which was researched but not shown due to lack of funding.
Oversized material housed in OV 29.
Printed material.
Constable's research files contain notes, lists, correspondence, bibliographic reference cards, and printed and photographic reference material related to research on artists, conservation, collections, collecting, and other topics.
Materials include notes, lists, correspondence, and printed and photographic reference material related to artists. Substantial material on Carlo Bonavia, John Constable, Thomas Patch, and Giovanni Pannini can be found in this subseries.
"'The Lock' as a Theme in the Work of John Constable"
Oversized material housed in Box 28, Folder 3.
Materials comprise Constable's book research on the Venetian painter Canaletto. This includes comprehensive lists of public and private collections containing Canaletto's artwork, correspondence regarding specific works of art, biographical research notes, and notes on artistic influences. Printed material and reference photographs of works of art are also found in this sub-series.
Oversized material housed in Box 28, Folder 4.
Materials include notes, lists, correspondence, and printed and photographic reference material related to vedute/topographical painters and vedute school followers. Substantial material on Francesco Battaglioli, Luca Carlevaris, Francesco Guardi, Antonio Joli, Samuel Scott, and Francesco Tironi can be found in this subseries.
Biographical material, contemporary artists, exhibitions.
On artwork, views of Venice, miscellaneous.
Architecture.
Fabriche e Vedute.
Figure sketches, paintings.
Oversized material housed in Box 28, Folder 5.
Arch, castle, and Roman ruins.
Venetian buildings and villages. Oversized material housed in Box 28, Folder 5.
Venetian buildings and villages.
Arsenal, assemblages, and Bacino di San Marco.
Arsenal, assemblages, and Bacino di San Marco. Oversized material housed in Box 28, Folder 5.
Arsenal, assemblages, and Bacino di San Marco.
Canals and churches.
Fondamenta Nuova and Grand Canal.
Lagoon, Papal visit, and Piazza San Marco. Oversized material housed in Box 28, Folder 5.
Lagoon, Papal visit, and Piazza San Marco.
Piazzetta, Rialto Bridge, and Riva Degli Schiavone.
San Giorgio Aggiore and San Maria Della Dogana.
Oversized material housed in Box 28, Folder 5.
Materials consist of notes, reports, articles, and miscellaneous printed and photographic material regarding techniques relevant to museum conservation and curation.
Oversized material housed in OV 29.
Oversized material scanned with Box 21, Folder 19.
Materials consist of notes, acquisition reports, memoranda, meeting minutes, and photographs of artwork for museums that Constable worked with in an advisory capacity.
Oversized material housed in OV 29.
Materials include notes, lists, correspondence, and photographs describing artworks owned by private collectors in North America and Europe, with particular emphasis given to American and British collections. The subseries also includes information on works of art handled through dealers and auction houses.
Oversized material housed in Box 28, Folder 6.
Materials include notes, lists, correspondence, and photographs describing artworks owned by public galleries and museums in North America and Europe, with particular emphasis given to American and British institutions.
Materials consist of note cards referencing bibliographic sources related to Constable's research interests, including the Venetian artist Canaletto, private and public art collections, and European schools of art.
Materials include notes, lists, correspondence, and printed and photographic materials related to styles of European art, with particular emphasis given to genres of English, German, Italian, and Scandinavian art.
Oversized material housed in Box 28, Folder 7.
Oversized material housed in OV 29.
Oversized material housed in Box 28, Folder 7.
Printed materials include clippings on Constable's work as a museum curator and art historian, as well as articles on miscellaneous art topics; programs; book excerpts and other miscellaneous printed materials.
Photographic materials include prints of Constable with friends and family. There are also prints, glass negatives and slides of paintings, sculpture and architectural buildings. Photographs and negatives of artwork are assumed to be for research purposes. The series also includes prints of the Fogg Art Museum's interiors and exterior and interior shots of Tennessee Valley Authority dam projects.
Oversized material housed in Box 28, Folder 8.
23 glass plate negatives
The papers of art historian Belisario Contreras measure 0.5 linear feet and date from 1943 to 1984. The papers contain his research on New Deal Art Projects, including correspondence and copies of correspondence with William C. Agee, George Biddle (including 16 photographs of murals in Mexico City and Washington, D.C. and a clipping), Mrs. Edward Bruce, Olin Dows, Maria Ealand, Arlene Jacobowitz, Masha Zakheim Jewett (including an exhibition catalog and clippings on Bernard Baruch Zakheim), Horace Kallen, Rockwell Kent, Chet LaMore, Merwin C. Phelps, David W. Scott, Harold Weston, and others; National Endowment for the Humanities grant proposals "NDA Projects in Pennsylvania," 1975, and "Images of the Heartland," 1980, and notes from Contreras' interviews with Maria Ealand, John Gernand, Jacob Kainen, Dorothy Miller, and Selma Rein.
The papers of art historian Belisario Contreras measure 0.5 linear feet and date from 1943 to 1984. The papers include his research on New Deal Art Projects, including correspondence and copies of correspondence with William C. Agee, George Biddle (including 16 photographs of murals in Mexico City and Washington, D.C. and a clipping), Mrs. Edward Bruce, Olin Dows, Maria Ealand, Arlene Jacobowitz, Masha Zakheim Jewett (including an exhibition catalog and clippings on Bernard Baruch Zakheim), Horace Kallen, Rockwell Kent, Chet LaMore, Merwin C. Phelps, David W. Scott, Harold Weston, and others; National Endowment for the Humanities grant proposals "NDA Projects in Pennsylvania," 1975, and "Images of the Heartland," 1980, and notes from Contreras' interviews with Maria Ealand, John Gernand, Jacob Kainen, Dorothy Miller, and Selma Rein.
Exhibition announcements and catalogs, invitations, and clippings.
The scattered papers of Irish-born painter Kathleen Cooke measure 0.4 linear feet and date from 1969-1979. Cooke's papers include biographical materials, correspondence, photographs, printed material, and scattered sales records.
Biographical materials include curriculum vitae, resumes, and artist statements by and about Cooke. Business correspondence is with galleries, institutions, and museums, including the Truman Gallery. Photographs are of works of art. Printed materials include exhibition announcements, catalogs, and clippings. Also found are five sales cards noting dimensions, buyer, and price of Cooke's paintings sold at Betty Parsons Gallery.
Material used for a memoir of Harrison Cady, "These are my Memories," written in collaboration with Cooley, including correspondence with Harrison Cady's nephews; clippings; and a manuscript of "These are my Memories."
Drawings, ca. 1820-1943, by 225 American artists from the drawing collection in the Cooper Union Museum. A description is included for each drawing.
Six portfolios of miscellaneous loose items containing original works of art by 73 artists. Edited by William N. Copley. Artists include William Copley, Christo, Marcel Duchamp, Roy Lichtenstein, Joseph Kosuth, Walter de Maria, Yoko Ono, Lawrence Weiner, Richard Artschwager, and Man Ray among others. The portfolios are all kept in original display boxes.
Biographical information, correspondence, scrapbooks, writings, artwork and art-related information, photographic materials, school records, financial materials, miscellaneous items, and printed materials. Also included are papers of Rosamond Corbett's husband, economist Rifat Tirana (3 ft.).
REELS 4376-4382: Biographical information includes personal documents, photographs, clippings, yearbooks, letters and other items. Correspondence, ca. 1940-1978, is with Clay Spohn (1960s), Ad Reinhardt (1940s, 1950s, and 1960s), Clyfford Still (1950s and 1960s), Mary Fuller and Robert McChesney, Grace Borgenicht, Andrew Dasburg, Richard Diebenkorn, Ira Glackens, Gyorgy Kepes, Katharine Kuh, David Leonard, Richard Merkin, Dorothy Miller, Seong Moy, Jerry Nordland, Hassel W. Smith, Earl Stoh, Alan Temko, Tirana Family members, Jack Tworkov, Anna Strunsky Walling (Rosamond's mother), and Adja Yunkers. Scrapbooks, 1948-1978, on Edward, contain photographs, clippings, correspondence (much of it from the Grace Borgenicht Gallery), exhibition catalogs, and printed materials; one is on on Rosamond and her family, 1932-1952 (during her marriage to economist Rifat Tirana).
Other material includes notes and poetry written by the Corbetts; artwork and art-related information primarily of Edward Corbett, including a sketchbook, loan agreements and receipts, information about the sale of his paintings, and exhibition catalogs and reviews; photographs, negatives and slides of the Corbetts and others, and of works of art; teaching files from Mount Holyoke College and the University of California at Santa Barbara; financial records, including statements, contracts, and receipts; exhibition catalogs; clippings; and an engagement calendar (1958) for Edward Corbett. Also included are materials on drug abuse.
UNMICROFILMED: Papers of Rifat Tirana, including resumes; correspondence, 1942-1952; notes, writings, lectures, and printed material on international trade; reports on pre-World War II Albania written while serving in the League of Nations, 1932-1939; manuscript of Tirana's SPOIL OF EUROPE, 1941, published under the pseudonym Thomas Reveille; and clippings.
Printed material relating to painter Jon Corbino measures 2.1 linear feet and dates from circa 1920-2010. Included are exhibition catalogs, newspaper clippings and other printed material.
The Dean Cornwell papers measure 3.9 linear feet and date from circa 1893-1981. Biographical material consists of a resume, obituaries for Cornwell, estate papers referencing various inheritances, multiple membership and award certificates, and material relating to a Who's Who in America article featuring Cornwell. Correspondence is to and from Dean Cornwell and is with artists and business associates. Writings include various essays by Cornwell as well as multiple diaries. Also included are the transcript of a biography about Cornwell titled Dean Cornwell: Dean of Illustrators (1978) by Patricia Janus Broder and two article drafts. Printed material consists of exhibition announcements and catalogs, printed reproductions of Cornwell's artwork, news clippings, and two scrapbooks of artwork by others. Photographic material includes personal photographs and photographs of Cornwell as well as photographs of his mural projects. Also included are a set of fifty-seven glass plate negatives which depict various drawings by Cornwell. Artwork includes a folder of sketches.
Biographical material consists of a resume, obituaries for Cornwell, estate papers, multiple membership and award certificates, and material relating to a Who's Who in America article featuring Cornwell.
Correspondence is to and from Dean Cornwell and is with artists and business associates.
Writings include various titled essays by Cornwell, as well as multiple diaries. Also included are the transcript of a biography titled Dean Cornwell: Dean of Illustrators (1978) by Patricia Janus Broder and two drafts of articles about Cornwell.
Printed material consists of exhibition announcements and catalogs, printed reproductions of Cornwell's artwork including magazine serial illustrations and christmas cards, news clippings, and two scrapbooks of artwork by others.
Photographic material includes photographs of Cornwell, family, and friends. Also included are photographs of his mural projects and photographic prints of a set of fifty-seven glass plate negatives which include a set of nitrate negatives stored separately.
Artwork includes a folder of sketches.
Papers of Lee Winslow Court primarily relate to Boston arts organizations, competitions and festivals. Includes:
brief autobiographical sketches, resumes and address lists; correspondence with friends, colleagues and associates; lists of works, price lists and notes regarding exhibition plans; financial materials consisting of commission receipts and invoices; a scrapbook containing clippings and catalogs relating to Court; printed materials, and 6 photographs of Court and his work.
The scattered papers of art and music patron and academic Olive Thompson Cowell measure 0.5 linear feet and date from circa 1940 to 1982. Found are biographical materials including sound recordings, a photo album and snapshots, and files on artists including Claire Falkenstein, Trude Guermonprez, and Frans and Marguerite Wildenhain.
Biographical materials consist of a Cowell's handwritten memoir; three cassette tapes from Cowell's anniversary and birthday in 1973; and a drawing of a house plan. Photographs depict Cowell in the 1970s with friends and in her garden. A spiral-bound photograph album contains about forty photographs of Olive Cowell, her husband, Harry, and his son, pianist and composer Henry taken in their home in San Francisco, California. Artist files for Claire Falkenstein and Frans and Marguerite Wildenhain consist of scattered correspondence, clippings, and exhibition material. A file for Trude Guermonprez concerns the loan of Cowell's tapestry to the Oakland Museum.
A published article, "Earl Kerkam: Paintings and Drawings," by Cowles, 1973, and a transcript of an interview with Elaine de Kooning, Esteban Vicente, Hanna Vicente, and Barbara Schwartz concerning Kerkam. The interview was conducted by Cowles in Elaine de Kooning's studio, March 29, 1972.
Cowles' inventory notebooks document the sale of artwork and his exhibitions through the 1950s Cowles's entries list title of painting, brief description, invoice number, dimensions, price, and purchaser. This group of notebooks, in 4 volumes, appears to be a partial record of a larger series; inventory numbers range from the 400s-600s.
The papers of Kenyon and Louise Cox measure 0.3 linear feet and date from 1876 to 1977. Included are Kenyon and Louise's Certificate of Marriage, autobiographical notes by Louise focusing on her time at the National Academy of Design, writings, and correspondence, primarily from Kenyon Cox, including several illustrated letters. Also found is artwork by Kenyon and others, including Julian Alden Weir, biographical material on Jacob Dolson Cox, Keyon's Father, photographs and printed reproductions of artwork, magazine and newspaper clippings, an unpublished bibliography on Kenyon Cox, and a handwritten list of Kenyon Cox paintings in the National Academy of Design permanent collection.
Oversize material housed in OV 2
Oversize material scanned with Box 1, Folder 2
Oversize material scanned with Box 1, Folder 8
Oversize material from Box 1, Folder 11
Oversize material scanned with Box 1, Folder 12
Christmas cards; sketches and drawings in ink, pencil and ink wash; and a scrapbook containing a photograph, a pencil sketch by Crabb, clippings of poetry by Crabb from an unidentified source, and clippings regarding exhibitions in the 1930's of Houston artists including Beulah Schiller Ayars, McNeil Davidson, Genevieve Filson, Grace Spaulding John, Robert Joy, Robert Preusser, E. M. "Buck" Schwiwetz, Chester Snowden, Ary Stillman and Ruth Pershing Uhler.
The Cranmer Art Group records, circa 1980-2021, measure 74 linear feet and document the professional activities of art conservator Dana Cranmer and her art conservation studio, the Cranmer Art Group (CAG). The earliest records date from 1980 to 1987, when Cranmer was conservator for the Mark Rothko Foundation. The bulk of the collection consists of client files that document the work of Cranmer and her studio from 1988 until its closure in 2021. CAG worked closely with artists and artists' estates, as well as foundations, galleries, museums, auction houses, and private collectors.
Client files include correspondence, condition reports, notes, analysis and treatment recommendations, documentation of treatments performed, and scattered slides, photographs, and digital photographs of artwork. Artists with whom Dana Cranmer had an extensive professional relationship have separately grouped client files from binders, which include Ellsworth Kelly, Brice Marden, and Christopher Wool artwork impacted by Hurricane Sandy in 2012. Photographic materials include slides, photographs, snapshots, and digital photographs of artwork in the conservation studio, as well as studio photographs of Dana Cranmer and CAG staff at work at various locations.
Client files include material related to the proposed treatment and completed treatment of artworks treated by conservator Dana Cranmer and the Cranmer Art Group (CAG). Materials include delivery and stretcher invoices and orders, treatment proposals, bill invoices, shipping manifests, scattered slides and photographs of artwork, and some samples of work or treatment materials, such as fabric, paint chips, and tape. Previously in binders, large quantities of separated slides, photographs, and treatment reports are grouped for Ellsworth Kelly works, Brice Marden works, and Christopher Wool works damaged by Hurricane Sandy in 2012. Artists and artists' studios CAG worked with include Emma Amos, Ida Applebroog, Willem De Kooning and Studio, Ellsworth Kelly, Roy Lichtenstein Estate and Foundation, Brice Marden and Plane Image, Inc., Robert Rauschenberg Studio and Foundation, Mark Rothko Foundation, Judith Rothschild Foundation, Julian Schnabel Studio, Richard Serra, and Andy Warhol Foundation, among others.
Galleries, Museums, and Collectors include Vrej Baghoomian, Inc., Bark Frameworks, Mary Boone Gallery, Phillippe Briet Gallery, Castelli Gallery and Graphics, Christie's, Paula Cooper Gallery, Dedalus Foundation, Inc., the de Menils and the Menil Collection, Dia Center for the Arts, Ronald Feldman Gallery, Gagosian Gallery, Knoedler and Company, The Met, the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, and Sotheby's, among many others.
Artwork examined for treatment by CAG includes work by Bill Anatasi, Jo Baer, Hanne Darboven, Stuart Davis, Beauford Delaney, Richard Diebenkorn, Paul Feeley, Eric Fischl, Sam Francis, Jane Freilicher, Philip Guston, Keith Haring, Jasper Johns, Donald Judd, Ellsworth Kelly, Franz Kline, Yayoi Kusama, Sol Lewitt, Roy Lichtenstein, Brice Marden, Agnes Marten, Joan Mitchell, Robert Motherwell, Isamu Noguchi, David Novros, Blinky Palermo, Pablo Picasso, Jackson Pollock, Ad Reinhardt, Gerhard Richter, Ed Ruscha, Julian Schnabel, Sean Scully, Richard Serra, Nancy Spero, Frank Stella, and Andy Warhol, among others.
Includes 1 undeveloped film roll.
Photographs, snapshots, and digital photographs are primarily of artwork in the Cranmer conservation studio, dating from 1998 to 2003. Separate groups of photographs depict conservation staff and artwork by Donald Judd at Locksley Shea in 1999, and conservation staff with Frank Stella work, "Valparaiso Green," in the 1990s. Studio photographs are of conservation staff in the 1980s, 1990s, and 2000. Slides depict works of art and detail images of conservation concerns from 1988 to 2008. Researchers should note that most slides and photographs of Brice Marden and Ellsworth Kelly works are found in Series 1, Client Files.
The papers of art critic Thomas Craven measure approximately .7 linear feet and date from 1919 through 1949 and 1975. The collection consists primarily of a dismantled scrapbook (1925 1949; 1975) containing newspaper clippings of Craven's articles and writings which span his career. Also found within the scrapbook are reviews by Oscar Bluemner and Byron Browne of Craven's two anti-modernist books, Men of Art and Modern Art. The collection also contains four letters concerning publications, a typescript essay about Thomas Craven's early career, two files of scattered writings in manuscript form, two bound handwritten manuscript versions of A Treasury of Art Masterpieces (1939), and Greek Art (1950), and miscellaneous loose newsclippings.
One file containing an essay about Craven by an unidentified author.
Four letters concerning publishing from the World Publishing Company, Marian McNamara, and E. Pollock.
Original manuscripts of essays, articles, and commentaries written by Thomas Craven. Found here are "A League for Democratic Art", an essay about the Art Student's League; "Nude Ascends A Staircase" about a watercolor Craven owned by George Grosz; "The Books as Illustrated Books" about artists who have successfully illustrated books; and "The New Century", an excoriation of the French.
Two bound original handwritten manuscripts versions of Craven's books A Treasury of Art Masterpieces (1939) and Greek Art (1950).
Found here are miscellaneous loose news clippings collected by Craven.
A dismantled scrapbook of clippings of Craven's numerous articles written for such periodicals as The New York Times, The New York Herald Tribune, Art Digest, The New York American and others. Reviews in the form of letters of his anti modernist books, Men of Art and Modern Art are also found including those, most notably, by Oscar Bluemner and Byron Browne.
Twelve photographs including eleven of a Robert Cremean sculpture exhibition at the Esther Robles Gallery in Los Angeles, ca. 1960 (two showing Cremean), and a photograph of the sculpture "Three Figures" by Cremean, ca. 1960, photographer unknown.
Correspondence; writings; photographs; works of art; a transcript of an audio recording; financial material; exhibition announcements, clippings and other printed material. Correspondents include the ACA Galleries in New York and Rome, Carter Gallery (Los Angeles), the Shayne Gallery (Montreal), Rooksmoor Gallery (Bath, England), Portal Gallery (London) and others. Writings include a typescript, "My Friend" by Richard E. Heller about Creo and notes on "Media developed by Gutierez for David Siqueiros and Diego Rivera", ca. 1951. Photographs are of Creo and his works of art. Works of art include a watercolor, and studies for paintings, including two sketchbooks with preliminary drawings. Financial material includes price lists of paintings, sales receipts, and receipts from the Morris Singer Foundry, Ltd., London. Transcript includes Creo's recollections of studying mural painting in Mexico City under the GI Bill and returning to New York from Mexico.
Biographical material; correspondence with the Italian Embassy, 1974-1977; minutes of Art Commission of the City of New York, 1958-1981; sketchbooks, and sketches; paintings by Crimi for his book, THE ART OF MULTI-DIMENSIONAL PAINTING; sketches by Soriano; books by Crimi; exhibition catalogs; scrapbooks, clippings and other printed material; and photographs of Crimi in his studio, and of his paintings.
ADDITION: Photocopy of a typescript of Crimi's autobiography (242 p.); correspondence; lectures and other writings; files on organizations, including the Federation of Modern Painters and Sculptors, Allied Artists Association, Salmagundi Club, and on other subjects; photographs; 70 lantern slides of murals; an album of slides and transparencies; and printed material.
This microfilm of the papers of African American painter Allan Rohan Crite consists of correspondence; biographical material; writings, including lecture transcripts; photocopies of print series with explanatory matter; clippings; photographs; and All Glory, a publication by Crite.
The papers of Connecticut painter, educator, photographer, and watercolorist Roger Crossgrove measure 21.1 linear feet and date from 1888 to 2012 with the bulk of the collection dating from 1950 to 2006. The collection consists of biographical material, correspondence, writings and notes, professional files, teaching files, subject files, exhibition files, printed materials, personal business records, artwork, sketchbooks, and photographic materials.
Biographical materials consist of appointment notebooks and planners, awards, calendars, a marriage announcement, and graduate school coursework. Correspondence is with family, friends, colleagues, museums, and galleries. Correspondents include American Artists Group, Brooks Memorial Art Gallery, the Philadelphia Museum of Art, and artists Eric Carle, John Schoenherr, Joseph A. Smith, Antonia Torres, and Alfredo Zalce, among others.
Writings and notes include essays, a thesis by Crossgrove, a play manuscript, notebooks, and notes. There are also writings by Justino Fernandez about contemporary Mexican prints. Professional files contain correspondence, printed materials, and notes related to Crossgrove's involvement with various arts organizations, the Yaddo Fellowship, and other professional activities. Teaching files contain documents compiled during Crossgrove's tenure at the Pratt Institute and the University of Connecticut.
Subject files created by Crossgrove about topics of interest, Mexican art, and artists Milton Avery, Romare Bearden, and others contain clippings, exhibition catalogs, and museum publications. Exhibition files are both general and specific. There are files for Roger Crossgrove Selected Works: Photographs 1978-1993, Three Decades (1961-1990): Works on Paper and Photographs, and numerous additional exhibitions of Crossgrove's work.
Personal business records document loans and sales of Crossgrove's artwork, purchases of artwork, personal ledgers, and expense lists. Printed materials include clippings, invitations, exhibition announcements, exhibition catalogs, flyers, gallery and museum publications, periodicals, and posters.
Artwork consists of drawings, illustrations, and monotypes by Crossgrove, as well as photographs by Steve Balkin, and artwork by Louis Owens, Vincent Perez, and Warner Pfeiffer. Eighteen sketchbooks contain drawings and notes by Crossgrove. Photographs and negatives are of Crossgrove, artwork, family and friends, and travel.
Biographical materials include eighteen annotated calendars, five appointment notebooks, and nine daily planners. Also included are awards and medals from various arts organizations and competitions. Crossgrove's marriage announcement, membership cards, receipts and payments, and files related to his M.F.A. coursework at the University of Illinois are also found in this series.
Oversized material housed in Box 23
Correspondence is with friends, family, organizations, museums and galleries, colleagues, and artists. Correspondence is with American Artists Group, Brooks Memorial Art Gallery, and Philadelphia Museum of Art, and for artists such as Eric Carle, Joseph A. Smith, John Schoenherr, Antonia Torres, and Alfredo Zalce, among others.
Writings by Crossgrove include a report on Tarascan, Mexico, a master of fine art thesis report, and a student paper titled "Some Observations on the Graphic Arts of Modern Mexico". There are notes and notebooks, a music writing book, and a manuscript draft written by Dr. Justino Fernández for a Mexican prints exhibition catalog. Some of the notebooks are also illustrated.
Professional files document Crossgrove's involvement in several arts organizations including the American Artists Group, American Watercolor Society, Artworks Gallery, Atrium Gallery, Brooklyn Society of Artists, Children's Book Council, Greater Mansfield Council for the Arts, Mystic Art Association, and the Windham Regional Arts Council. There are also files relating to the Yaddo Fellowship. Files typically contain administrative documents, correspondence, expense records, membership records, and printed materials.
Teaching files consist of correspondence, campus information, faculty memos and procedures, and student coursework compiled during Crossgrove's professorship at the Pratt Institute, where he taught under Albert Christ-Janer, and the University of Connecticut. Also included are letters regarding Crossgrove's independent study in Mexico and his sabbatical from the University of Connecticut, a collage in honor of Crossgrove's retirement, research questionnaire materials, and Crossgrove's statements on his career while at the University of Connecticut.
Oversized material housed in Box 23
Subject files were compiled by Crossgrove on artists and art related topics of interest, such as Mexico. Mexican art, city redevelopment projects, and artists Milton Avery, Romare Bearden, Edgar Degas, Tomie de Paola, and Rufino Tamayo. Files typically contain printed materials.
Oversized material housed in OV 24
Extensive exhibition files cover numerous exhibitions of Crossgrove's artwork, including Roger Crossgrove Selected Works: Photographs 1978-1993 (1993), Three Decades (1961-1990): Works on Paper and Photographs (1991), Monotypes Today (1976-1977), Monotypes Today II (1978), Monotypes Today III (1979), Monotypes Today IV (1980), Impressions Gallery and Slater Museum monotype exhibitions, and a traveling monotypes exhibition. Other files include faculty and alumni exhibitions, exhibitions in Mexico, and Original Art from Contemporary Children's Books (1987-1988). Files typically contain a wide variety of materials, such as correspondence, catalogs and announcements, information about individual works of art, and notes.
Business records include seven personal budget ledgers, records of artwork sales and purchases, and expense documentation for art supplies and professional memberships.
Oversized material housed in OV 24
This series consists of event invitations, exhibition announcements, exhibition catalogs, flyers, gallery and museum publications, newspapers, periodicals, and posters. The Art of Childhood auction preview book contain annotations by Crossgrove.
Oversized material housed in OV 24
Oversized material housed in Box 23
Included in this series are drawings, illustrations, monotype prints, and sketches for a Unitarian church bulletin by Crossgrove; artwork by Crossgrove's children, Louis Owens, Warner Pfeiffer, and Vincent and Bette Perez; and various collages, doodles, and sketches.
Oversized material housed in Box 23
Eighteen sketchbooks contain mainly figure drawings, still life drawings, and occasional notes written by Crossgrove and others.
Oversized material housed in Boxes 22-23.
Photographic materials includes photographs and negatives taken by and of Crossgrove, his artwork, and the artwork of others including Doreen Elizabeth, Helene Rechovsky, and Alfredo Zalce. Also included are travel photographs.
Katherine Crum papers regarding the Nicholas Wilder and the Nicholas Wilder Gallery measure 0.2 linear feet and date from circa 1964-2005. Included are gallery photographs, exhibition correspondence, lists of exhibitions at the gallery, printed material, exhibition files (with CDs) for "Wilder: A Tribute to the Nicholas Wilder Gallery", Los Angeles, 1965-1979, Franklin Parrasch and Joan T. Washburn Galleries; and for "The Rowan Collection: Passion and Patronage", Mills College,1999; and a file with images on CD of Nicholas Wilder Gallery photographs at the The Frank Thomas Archives.
A resume, letters, price lists, and three exhibition catalogs.
The scattered papers of Leah Curtiss-Gould measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1918 to 1985. Primarily, the papers relate to silversmith Arthur J. Stone, his company of silversmiths, Stone Associates, and their business relationship with the Curtiss Gallery. Found are biographical materials, correspondence, drawings by Stone and his associates, printed material, and photographs.
Biographical materials consist of timelines including one of Curtiss-Gould's life and a second of assistants for Arthur Stone. Three letters written to Curtiss-Gould concern silverworks sold, requesting further information. Drawings are by Arthur Stone and his associates for silver serving pieces and Erickson Holloware. Printed materials include clippings about Arthur Stone and an exhibition catalog published by Leah K. Curtiss which includes photographs and a price list. Photographs are of Arthur Stone in his workshop and his pieces of silver including flatware, serving dishes, and holloware.
Items fragile due to water damage.
Correspondence; notes; sketchbooks; photographs; clippings, and printed material.
REELS 296-297: Biographical material; Letters from Samuel Adler, Sidney Delevante, Margaret Breuning and others; poems and lectures; notes and drafts for a book on structure and drawing; catalogs, photographs and printed material.
REEL D254: Personal and business correspondence; American and Italian exhibition catalogs and notices; notebooks; sketchbooks; a scrapbook; lectures and printed matter used as teaching material; and photographs of Cusumano and his work.
UNMICROFILMED: Correspondence; notes for an unpublished book; notes for lectures; an undated sketchbook; clippings and other printed material; xerox copies of reviews; and Cusumano's 1929 high school yearbook designed by him.
Correspondence including a few letters with Harriet Crane, Cutler's dealer in Cincinnati, Ohio; a 1968 calendar of Cutler's work published by the Harriet Crane Gallery; exhibition catalogs; photographs of Cutler's work; slides; a 16mm film transferred to VHS about the work of Charles Cutler; clippings; printed material; and miscellaneous items.
366 photographs, negatives, and slides of art work executed between 1890 and 1927 by Arthur Bowen Davies and eleven reproductions of Childe Hassam's graphic works, used as research material by Czestochowski for his work on Davies and Hassam. Also found is a photocopy of "Works by Arthur B. Davies from the Ferargil Galleries Registry, May 1, 1928-June 15, 1942."
The papers of ceramist William Daley measure 26.3 linear feet and date from 1905-2016 (bulk 1951-2001). The collection documents Daley's career as both artist and teacher through biographical information, correspondence, exhibition files, project files, material on workshops, seminars, and lectures, teaching files, artist files, reference files, printed material, photographs, financial files, and artwork.
Biographical files encompass items from Daley's early life including family, education, and military materials, as well as files on awards he has earned, and interviews he has given during his career. Correspondence includes general correspondence with family, friends, artists, colleagues, and schools, as well as named files on correspondence with galleries, organizations, and individuals. The largest series in the collection, Exhibition Files, spanning a fifty year period, contain materials on group and solo exhibitions in which Daley participated, and also includes Auction Files and Exhibition Juror Files. Project Files contain materials related to public and private commissions.
Workshops, Seminars, and Lectures, documents the numerous events at which Daley taught or spoke on topics of art, ceramics, and/or education. Many of these topics are also found in Writings, which include drafts of writings by Daley and others. Within this series Daley's personal address lists and calendars are also found. The Teaching Files provide insight into Daley's teaching methods, primarily at the Philadelphia College of Art, from materials such as curriculum plans, lesson notes, and assignments. Also within this series are general teaching notes which contain many hand drawn diagrams. The Artist Files that Daley created house materials concerning artists who were friends, former students, co-workers, and colleagues. Daley also compiled Reference Files containing materials on various topics for use in teaching and projects. Topics include the art of various countries, formulas and tables for ceramics, essays on art and education, and other general subjects. Printed Material provides information, primarily on ceramics, through press clippings, exhibit announcements, catalogs and journals, as well as other miscellaneous materials. Also found are reviews of Daley's work. While photographs are included throughout the collection, the Photographs series contains additional photographs of Daley in the studio or in the classroom, as well as photographs of artwork by others. Also found in the collection are copies of drawings Daley completed throughout his career.
There is an 11.1 linear foot unprocessed addition to this collection donated in 2022 that includes project, exhibition and book files; photographs and slides of works of art, Daley and events; printed material; writings; awards and honors; lectures; drawings; kiln logs; notebooks; audio cassettes, CDs and DVDs; files on artists and miscellany regarding William P. Daley. Materials date from circa 1959-2016.
This series includes artist statements, a brief biography and professional history of Daley, as well as school and military records. It also contains files on William Daley's Honorary Doctorates and numerous other awards and typically include correspondence, brochures, and other related materials concerning the awards. Also found are documents associated with Daley's family, including correspondence with his parents during World War II and materials on his father, William Joseph Daley. There are files on two oral history interviews including a 120 page interview of Daley conducted in 1985 by the Columbia University American Craftspeople Oral History Project. This series is arranged alphabetically by type of material and chronologically under each heading. Most materials prior to 1950 are photocopies.
This series contains both personal and professional correspondence. A significant amount of correspondence related to William Daley's professional career is also located within series 3, 4, and 5, and correspondence with certain artists is found in the Artist Files in Series 8.
General Correspondence primarily consists of letters of a more personal nature from family, friends, artists, and colleagues, including numerous cards and postcards. Also within are requests from galleries, schools, universities, and art associations for Daley to take part in exhibitions or workshops. Files are arranged chronologically by year.
Named Files are arranged alphabetically by the correspondents name and contain primarily professional correspondence to and from Daley. Included are files on galleries, such as Exhibit A and Garth Clark Gallery, and several councils and organizations in which Daley was a member. There are also files on individuals with whom Daley exchanged a significant amount of correspondence over a long period of time. Most notable is Helen Drutt, owner of the Helen Drutt Gallery which represents Daley's artwork.
Exhibition Files contain material on the numerous group and solo exhibits in which William Daley participated. Files typically include correspondence, expense lists and receipts, price lists, and printed materials, including brochures, catalogs, announcements, and press clippings. A few files also contain photographs. Files are arranged chronologically by year of exhibition.
Auction Files contain material relating to art auctions for which Daley donated a work of art. Found are correspondence, price lists, printed materials, including catalogs and announcements, and receipts. Files are arranged chronologically by year of auction.
The Exhibition Juror Files contain material concerning exhibitions for which Daley was a juror or critic. Materials in these files are very similar to the Exhibitions files and typically include correspondence, expense lists and receipts, award lists, and printed materials, including announcements, brochures, and press clippings. Files are arranged chronologically by year of exhibition.
Project Files typically contain correspondence, expense lists, receipts, sketches, printed material, and photographs related to sculpture projects that William Daley completed or proposed during his career. This includes public and private commissions, notably a sculpture for IBM at the Seattle World's Fair, a sculpture for South African Airways, the Fairfield Maxwell Wall, and work completed at the Westminster Presbyterian Church. Files are arranged chronologically by year.
This series includes extensive materials on workshops William Daley taught, seminars he participated in, and lectures that he gave on topics of art, ceramics, and education. Files typically contain most or all of the following: correspondence, expense lists and receipts, schedules of events, lecture or teaching notes, printed material, including brochures and press clippings, and photographs of the event. Files are labeled according to location or title of the event and are arranged chronologically by year.
This series houses writings by William Daley and others as well as Daley's personal address lists and calendars. Writings by Daley contain articles, speeches, and other writings. These include artist reviews, autobiographical essays, essays on art, and essays on education. Many files provide several drafts and edited versions with handwritten notations. Also found within the files are related materials including correspondence and clippings of published versions of the artist's writings. Writings by Others contain two articles and one lecture on the art of William Daily, as well as essays on other art topics. Also included are a thesis proposal on ceramics and a master's thesis on the University of the Arts Foundation Program.
This series contains materials relating to Daley's career as an art professor, primarily at the Philadelphia College of Art from 1965 to 1990. Files on his early career contain correspondence, records, and evaluations. Files pertaining to the Philadelphia College of Art include curriculums, lesson notes, and assignments for several courses. Also found are department mission statements and semester grades. Much of the material was either written by Daley himself or with his colleagues. At the end of the series are several files of general teaching materials, including more notes on ceramics, kiln instructions, and teaching contracts. Items of note in this series are Daley's dismantled ceramics notebook and "Ceramic Shop Notes," as well as materials on a course entitled Concept Development which include many original hand drawn diagrams and illustrations. Files are arranged chronologically by academic institution with general materials arranged chronologically at the end of the series.
This series contains files for artists who were colleagues or friends of William Daley, and may include announcements and invitations to the artist's exhibitions, correspondence with Daley, biographical material such as resumes, printed material, and photographs of the artist. Correspondence between Daley and the artists include incoming letters, postcards, and drafts of outgoing letters. Many of the artists were either Daley's students or co-workers, and most of the files contain material spanning ten years or more. Also found is a transcribed interview William Daley conducted of artist Viktor Schrekengost in 1996. Materials in this series are arranged alphabetical by artist's last name.
This series contains material on a variety of topics that William Daley compiled as reference files for projects and teaching. This includes files on the art of various countries, in the form of postcards, maps, and guidebooks, as well as files of numerous published or handwritten formulas, tables, and directions for using ceramic or other sculptural materials. Also found are materials on art, craft, and education, and other general subjects in the form of photocopies or clippings of articles. These files also include teaching materials written and originally used by others. This series is arranged alphabetically by subject.
This series houses printed material and publications including newspaper and magazine clippings on Daley, Helen Drutt Gallery, and ceramics in general. Files of clippings about Daley contain many reviews of his work. Also within this series are numerous exhibition announcements and invitations. These are arranged by medium and chronologically under each heading, with separate folders for the galleries from which Daley received a large amount of material. This series contains exhibition catalogs primarily from the National Ceramic Exhibition (later called The Ceramic National), and various copies of journals and newsletters on the topic of ceramics. Also found are manuals on ceramics, miscellaneous published essays, brochures, and art postcards.
This series contains photographs of William Daley throughout his career. The majority of the photographs depict Daley teaching and interacting with his students. Also included are photographs of the artist with his family, and early portraits of Daley working in his studio. There are also photographs of artwork by others ranging from outdoor sculpture to student work, and one file for unidentified photographs. Note that photographs related to certain events or artists may also be found in series 3, 4, 5 and 8.
This series consists of various bills, receipts, and expense lists. Also found is a list of pot sales for 1988 and a cash book containing expense lists for projects William Daley completed during the mid-1960s.
The series consists of drawings and sketches by William Daley, including one file of eight original sketches for unidentified projects. Also found are two oversize files of signed copies made in 2003 of drawings done throughout Daley's career. This includes drawing studies for projects, compositions based on ceramic works, such as "Body Pot Revisited," and miscellaneous drawings such as "John Pickett in Hospital - Stroke" and a 1964 self-portrait. Items are arranged chronologically within each file.
Minutes of the Association's Board of Trustees meetings, 1963-1965, including a report from the director of the Dallas Museum of Fine Arts, 1963.
Correspondence, business records and printed material.
REELS 1908-1909: Business correspondence; financial records; Executive Committee minutes, memoranda, and correspondence; by-laws and minutes of the Dallas Society for Contemporary Arts; files of the Exhibitions Committee, including correspondence, reports, schedules, and minutes; exhibition catalogs and announcements; membership lists; news clippings; and correspondence and memoranda relating to the merger of the Dallas Museum for Contemporary Arts with the Dallas Museum of Fine Arts.
REEL 1921: Exhibition Committee files kept by John W. O'Boyle, including correspondence, memoranda, catalogs, and miscellaneous printed material.
REEL 3435, Gift: Correspondence and printed material, including statements of purpose and the by-lays of the organization, the plan of merger with the Dallas Museum of Fine Arts, minutes of meetings, exhibition proposals, a program for a museum concert, an auction list, an exhibition catalog, and 2 clippings.
REELS 3434-3435, Loan: A history of the Dallas Museum of Contemporary Arts; correspondence; printed material, including exhibition announcements and catalogs, clippings, press releases and miscellaneous public relations printed material; material relating to the Dallas Musuem for Contemporary Arts Children's House, including a scrapbook; and financial records.
Biographical data; 15 letters between Daly and colleagues, museums and galleries, including a letter in which Daly discusses his sculpture; printed material, including clippings, magazine articles, and news bulletins; exhibition catalogs and announcements; and 10 photographs of Daly and his works of art.
Correspondence, photographs, negatives, proofsheets, and printed material compiled in preparation for Damaz's books: Art in European Architecture (New York: Reinhold Pub. Corp, 1956), and Art in Latin American Architecture (New York: Reinhold Pub. Corp, 1963).
Manuscripts, typescripts, and revisions of the tape-recorded reminiscences of Charles Daniel. The typescripts and editing were done by Dorothy C. Walker. In addition there are 5 letters from Daniel to Walker, 1950-1955, in which he discusses Charles Demuth, Bryson Burroughs, Saul Schary and Rockwell Kent; a letter to Walker's brother, Robert, 1964, an illustrated letter to Daniel from Saul Schary, 1966, written from Tehran, and a copy of a letter to Daniel from Joseph De Martini on Daniel's 89th birthday.
The papers of Los Angeles art critic and writer, art historian, professor, collector, and artist Fidel Danieli (1938-1988) measure 8.4 linear feet and date from 1962 to 1987. Found within the papers are writing and research files, and 108 sound recordings of interviews with or about 45 Los Angeles artists conducted by Danieli in 1974-1975 for the U.C.L.A. oral history project "L.A. Community Artists." There are also sound recordings of art performances and art talks, and printed materials, including numerous exhibition announcements.
Writing and research files consist of articles and reviews written by Fidel Danieli and supporting documentation and printed material. Files cover individual artists, exhibitions, and other scattered topics. Files on reviews of artists Danieli wrote include typescripts and handwritten drafts, printed materials, and photographs. Artists covered include Carlos Almarez, Larry Bell, Wallace Berman, Lorser Feitelson, Dan Flavin, Robert Graham, Jules Langsner, Richard Pettibone, Rachel Rosenthal, Alexis Smith, and John White, among many others. The file for Richard Pettibone includes 2 original sound cassettes and duplicates. Writings for exhibition catalogs and reviews of exhibitions focus primarily on Los Angeles area exhibitions or exhibitions of California artists. These files include notes, typescripts, and printed materials. Also found are files for magazine articles written by Danieli. Research files include a set of index cards documenting a chronology of Los Angeles art and 9 sound cassettes of television shows that focus on California art.
Interviews of and performances by Los Angeles comprise 108 sound cassettes. The majority of the cassettes are artist interviews conducted by Danieli in 1974-1975 for the U.C.L.A. oral history project "L.A. Community Artists," but there are also scattered recordings of art talks, panel discussions, and performances. Artists include David Antin, Eleanor Antin, Judith Bettelheim, Nick Brigante, Annita Delano, Allan Kaprow, Peter Krasnow, Peter Plagens, Gary Lloyd, John McLaughlin, Shirley Pettibone, Betye Saar, and John White, among many others.
Printed material consists primarily of exhibition announcements about California artists and exhibitions.
This series consists of reviews and articles written by Danieli, as well as supporting documentation and notes. Also found are Danieli's research files on artists and exhibitions.
Artist files include handwritten and typed drafts of writings about artists for Artweek and Artscene and other publications. Files also include exhibition announcements, artist resumes and biographical information, clippings, limited correspondence, and some photographs and negatives of artwork. Artists covered include Carlos Almarez, Larry Bell, Wallace Berman, Lorser Feitelson, Dan Flavin, Robert Graham, Jules Langsner, Rachel Rosenthal, Alexis Smith, and John White, among many others. There are also 4 sound cassettes of an interview with Richard Pettibone.
This subseries consists of writings for exhibition catalogs and reviews. In addition to article and essay drafts, the folders also include notes and printed material such as press releases and clippings about the shows. Most of the exhibition titles were retained as folder headings since Danieli's reviews often were untitled. There is 1 sound cassette about Ceeje Gallery.
This subseries consists of writings and research on assorted subjects such as a special edition of Images and Issues magazine on L.A. artists, index cards of notes on the chronology of L.A. Art, and 4 sound cassettes of miscellaneous recordings including television episodes about art.
This series consists of 45 artist interviews, as well as recordings of performances and art talks dating from 1974-1975 on 108 sound cassettes, along with a few interview transcripts. The sound recordings appear to be part of the UCLA oral history project "LA Community Artists." Most of the cassettes are artist interviews conducted by Danieli, but there are also recordings of art talks, panel discussions, seminars, performances, and informal group discussions. Artists include David Antin, Eleanor Antin, Judith Bettelheim, Nick Brigante, Annita Delano, Allan Kaprow, Peter Krasnow, Peter Plagens, Gary Lloyd, John McLaughlin, Shirley Pettibone, Betye Saar, and John White, among many others.
Several of the cassette tape containers have detailed handwritten labels that specify the location of the interview, the subject of discussion, and other information.
Interview transcript only.
Panel discussion on L.A. art and architecture
The bulk of this series consists of exhibition announcements for artists, exhibitions in Los Angeles and California galleries and art venues, museums, and university galleries. There are also a few miscellaneous files on events and performances, and some magazines and clippings.
The bulk of the material in this subseries consists of exhibition announcements and a few clippings for various Southern California artists.
This subseries consists of exhibition announcements from various Los Angeles galleries and art venues.
The bulk of this subseries consists of exhibition announcements from museums as well as the galleries and exhibition spaces at universities and colleges in California, not restricted to Los Angeles.
This subseries consists of assorted printed material such as exhibition announcements, magazines, press releases, and clippings.
Membership card for the Society of Independent Artists, 1920; a letter, undated, from newspaper cartoonist Clive Weed and his wife Helen Torr Weed (later Helen Torr Dove), encouraging Daniel to continue his painting, and offering to take Daniel's drawings to show them in Philadelphia; fragment from a sheet of cartoon drawings regarding war bonds; a photocopy of an unidentified pencil portrait; exhibition announcements, including Daniel's first show at the Modern Gallery, 1917, Independents' Studio exhibitions, 1917-18, Fischbach Gallery, 1970, and a catalog of Fischbach's memorial exhibition, 1976; 6 color photographs of paintings, 1972; clippings regarding the Independents' shows, 1916-1921, his exhibitions at Fischbach Gallery, 1970-1973, his memorial exhibition, and his obituary; and 4 typewritten sheets summarizing press clippings and listing his exhibits.
This collection contains an exhibition catalog entitled REALMS OF THE UNREAL - THE WORK OF HENRY DARGER (1977), two volumes of Darger's "My Life History," and two diaries. Diaries describe his reclusive life, March 1968-January 1971 (348 p.), including such activities as attending mass several times a day, going to confession and communion, tying cords together, and making balls. He also writes about his leg pain, walks, and his temper tantrums.
The papers of painter Andrew Dasburg and sculptor Grace Mott Johnson date from 1833 to 1980, with the bulk of the materials dating from 1900 to 1980, and measure 8.8 linear feet. The collection is divided into the papers of Andrew Dasburg (6 linear feet) and the papers of Grace Mott Johnson (2.8 linear feet), and documents each artist's career and personal lives, including their brief marriage, and friendships with many notable artists in New Mexico and New York art colonies during the early twentieth century. Found are scattered biographical, legal, and financial materials. Extensive correspondence (particularly in Dasburg's papers) is with family, friends, and fellow artists, such as John F. Carlson, Florence Ballin Cramer, Mabel Dodge Luhan, Marsden Hartley, Henry Lee McFee, Vera Spier Kuhn, and Ward Lockwood. Dasburg's papers also include letters to Johnson and his two later wives.
Johnson's correspondence is also with numerous artist friends and others, including John F. and Margaret Carlson, Florence Ballin Cramer, Jo Davidson, Florence Lucius, Walter Frankl, Lila Wheelock Howard, Henry Lee McFee, Mary Riley, Lee Simonson, Lindsey Morris Sterling, Alice Morgan Wright, Mabel Dodge Luhan, and Vera Spier Kuhn. Letters to her son Alfred are quite detailed and revealing. Writings are by Dasburg, Johnson, and others. Johnson's writings include a very brief diary and her poetry. Writings by others are about the Taos and New Mexico art communities. Printed materials about both artists include clippings and exhibition catalogs. There are numerous photographs of Dasburg and Johnson, individually and together, and with friends and family. Of note are a group photograph of Birge Harrison's art class in Woodstock, New York, which includes Johnson and Dasburg, and a photograph of Dasburg with friends Konrad Cramer and John Reed. Dasburg's papers also include snapshots of Florence Lucius, Konrad and Florence Ballin Cramer, Frieda and D. H. Lawrence, and Mabel Dodge Luhan. Original artwork by the two artists include two sketchbooks by Johnson and three prints and two drawings by Dasburg.
This series contains the papers Andrew Dasburg, documenting both his personal life, such as his relationship with first wife, Grace Mott Johnson, and his friendships with many artists in New Mexico and New York, and to a lesser degree, his professional activities as an exhibiting artist. Found here are scattered legal, biographical, and financial documents. There is extensive correspondence with Johnson. Additional correspondence is with his son Alfred Dasburg, second wife Nancy Lane, and third wife Marina Wister, as well as numerous friends, fellow artists, scholars, galleries, universities, and museums. Notable correspondents include Mabel Dodge Luhan, Kenneth Adams, Thomas Hart Benton, George Biddle, Marsden Hartley, Ward Lockwood, Alfred Stieglitz, and Ward Lockwood, Henry Lee McFee, among many others.
Also found in Dasburg's papers are a few essays on art written by him, and writings by others about Dasburg and more general art topics. Printed material consists of published books about the Taos art community, as well as exhibition announcements, catalogs, and newsclippings about Dasburg, other artists, and the Taos and New Mexico art community. Photographs are of Dasburg while he was living in Woodstock, New York; Paris, France; and Taos, New Mexico; as well as his family, friends, models, places, and works of art. Of note are a group photograph of Birge Harrison's art class in Woodstock, New York, which includes Johnson and Dasburg, and a photograph of Dasburg with friends Konrad Cramer and John Reed. Dasburg's artwork includes three prints and two drawings.
Scattered papers of his son, Alfred Dasburg, primarily consists of correspondence with family, friends, and concerning the business affairs of his father.
Found here are scattered biographical documents about Andrew Dasburg as well as business and legal records. Included are two biographical chronologies, one specifically documenting his time in London and Paris in 1914. Also found are the divorce agreements between Dasburg and Grace Mott Johnson, and other legal documents, including a handwritten draft of his will from 1922. Other material includes awards and membership certificates, his death certificate, and the records of his estate, which was managed by his son Alfred, and includes inventories of his artwork at the time of his death, as well as other financial forms and notes.
Business records primarily document Dasburg's late career during the 1970s. Included are the contracts and records of his work on a series of lithographs which were printed with the support of the Tamarind Institute, and the exhibition records for the Santa Fe Armory show which featured his work. This file also includes notes on Dasburg's participation in the 1913 Armory Show in New York. Other documents include an inventory of books in his home at the time of his death, a desk diary primarily containing addresses, and various lists of his artwork, some of which also include prices. A small amount of financial material consists of receipts for sale of his artwork, a ledger, cancelled checks and other miscellaneous items such as bank statements and insurance and tax forms. Items are arranged chronologically within each folder.
Found here is Andrew Dasburg's extensive correspondence which spans over seventy years, documenting both his personal and professional life. One third of the correspondence is between Dasburg and his first wife, Grace Mott Johnson. most of which was written during their marriage. These candid letters discuss daily activities, social events, travels, including Dasburg's time in Paris in 1910 and trip to Europe in 1914, news of mutual friends, artwork, and problems with their relationship.
Also found is Dasburg's correspondence with his second wife, Nancy Lane around the time of their marriage in 1928, and correspondence with his third wife, Marina Wister Dasburg during the periods that she visited her family in Pennsylvania; most of these letters are written by Marina. Dasburg's correspondence with his son, Alfred, consists of brief letters sharing news of their travels, family, and personal matters.
General correspondence primarily consists of Dasburg's correspondence with other family members, friends, colleagues, scholars, universities, and galleries. Where they exist, Dasburg's outgoing letters are interfiled with letters he received in a chronological arrangement. Dasburg was friends with many artists who, like him, were part of regional art colonies in Taos and Santa Fe, New Mexico, and Woodstock, New York. He also maintained friendships with artists he met in Europe and other travels and at the Art Students' League. Correspondents includes Kenneth Adams, Thomas Hart Benton, George Biddle, Dorothy Brett, Alexander Brook, Lucienne Chinard Clemens, Howard Cook, Russell Cowles, Vida Hunt Francis, Lewis Garrison, Marsden Hartley, Norbert Heerman, Richard Hollander, Lila Wheelock Howard, Charles Kassler, Mary Aubrey Keating, Carl Eric Lindin, Ward Lockwood, Erle Loran, Hayes Lyon, Henry Lee McFee, John Gaw Meem, Loren Mozley, Dickson Reeder, Louis Ribak, Paul Rohland, Alfred Stieglitz, Earl Stroh, Carl Van Vechten, Alice Morgan Wright, and Stanton Macdonald-Wright, among many others. Dasburg also corresponded with many former students including Edwin Gamble, Willard Nash, Alice Naylor, and Earl Stroh. Also found are letters from writers John Howard Griffin, Witter Bynner and Miriam Hapgood De Witt as well as art critics and historians such as Robert M. Coates, Oliver Larkin, and Stanley Lothrop. Dasburg maintained extensive correspondence with close friend, art patron and Taos resident, Mabel Dodge Luhan.
A small amount of correspondence with galleries, universities, museums, curators, and scholars concerns exhibitions, sales, or research. Additional topics found within his correspondence are American Indian rights in New Mexico and his medical treatment for Addison's disease.
See Appendix A for a list of correspondents from Series 1.2.
Writings by Andrew Dasburg include two brief essays on painting and an essay on abstract art entitled "Notes for a Criticism" that he wrote for the Harwood Foundation in 1953. Writings by others include poetry written by Peggy Church, sent to Dasburg for Christmas over several years, one of which is entitled "Andrew's Tree in the Moonlight", as well as poems and song lyrics written by Dasburg's wife, Marina Wister Dasburg. Filed here are writings and research notes by Teles Romero's on the conditions of the Jicarilla Apaches Indian reservation, a topic of particular interest to Marina Dasburg. Also found are draft writings by Virginia Gardner for her book, Friend and Lover: The Life of Louise Bryant. Andrew Dasburg and Grace Mott Johnson were friends with Bryant and Andrew and Alfred Dasburg assisted Gardner in her research for the book. Additional research material compiled by Gardner and found here includes photocopies of news clippings and articles on Bryant.
Writings about Andrew Dasburg consist of a portion of an essay by Howard Cook, a biographical essay about Dasburg by Mary Carroll Nelson, an essay by Mabel Dodge Luhan regarding Dasburg's mural at the Colorado Springs Art Centre, and an essay regarding Dasburg's artwork by Van Deren Coke. There is also a document in German possibly written by Dasburg's grandfather, and other notes by unidentified authors. Folders are arranged by author and items are arranged chronologically within each folder.
Printed material concerns Dasburg's career, as well as his interest and participation in art events in New Mexico. Found here are three books, two specifically on artists in Taos, and one written by Dasburg's friend, Mabel Dodge Luhan. Other materials include exhibition announcements and catalogs for various group shows featuring artists of New Mexico, as well as solo exhibitions of Dasburg's work and the work of others. News clippings are about Dasburg, Taos news and art community, art exhibitions, and articles about his friends and family. Also found are newsletters from various New Mexico art organizations, blank postcards, some of which depict Woodstock, New York, a few press releases for exhibitions, and various programs and brochures. Items are arranged chronologically within each folder.
There are photographs of Andrew Dasburg and his family, friends, colleagues, homes, and artwork. Photographs of Dasburg include portraits and candid photographs. A few particularly noteworthy photographs depict Dasburg painting on Monhegan Island, Maine, in 1913; outside of Mabel Dodge Luhan's cottage in Provincetown, Massachusetts; outside of Luhan's home in Taos, New Mexico; and painting in his studio in Taos. Photographs of Dasburg with friends and family include him with his mother and son, Alfred; in a group photograph of Birge Harrison's Art Students' League summer class in Woodstock, New York, in 1907 along with his future wife, Grace Mott Johnson; in his studio at 115 rue Notre Dame des Champs with friends in 1910; with Konrad Cramer and John Reed in 1914; with artist Charles Kassler in Colorado; and with other unidentified groups of people, probably in Woodstock, NY. Also found are photographs of his son Alfred as a child and with his wife and children; photographs of friend and fellow artist Lila Wheelock Howard; and photographs of the Wister children, including Dasburg's third wife, Marina Wister. Notable among the photographs of family and friends include snapshots of Florence Lucius, Konrad and Florence Ballin Cramer, Frieda and D. H. Lawrence, and Mabel Dodge Luhan.
The papers also include several photographs taken at Taos, New Mexico, including two photographs of Andrew and Alfred Dasburg with Tony Luhan and a photograph of Alfred with Mary Foote, Mabel Dodge Luhan, and Tony Luhan en route to a snake dance. Additional photographs of Taos include Native American events, landscapes, and architecture. Photographs of places include Dasburg's house in Woodstock, New York, his mother's house in Wurtsboro, New York, Monhegan Island, Nova Scotia, and other unidentified places. Also found are photographs and slides of artwork by Dasburg and a few photographs of artwork by others. Folders are arranged by subject and chronologically within each folder.
Artwork by Andrew Dasburg includes three woodblock prints of "Girl with Yo-Yo" and two small drawings.
Filed here are documents created by Alfred Dasburg, Andrew Dasburg and Grace Mott Johnson's son. Included is correspondence between Alfred Dasburg and family members, friends, his step-mother Nancy Lane, as well as with universities, art galleries, and museums regarding the loan of artwork by Andrew Dasburg or requesting biographical information about Dasburg or Johnson. A significant amount of correspondence during the late 1970s is with Virginia Gardner who was researching Dasburg and Johnson's careers and friendships with Louise Bryant. Also found within the correspondence are letters regarding his parents' health care. By the mid-1970s Alfred was handling many of his father's business and financial affairs which is reflected in these letters.
Correspondence between Alfred and his father, Andrew Dasburg, is found in series 1.2, and correspondence between Alfred and his mother, Grace Mott Johnson, is found in series 2.2. Additional material in Alfred Dasburg's papers include three of his report cards, his wife Matilda's death certificate, and documents from his trip to Dasburg, Germany. Items are arranged chronologically within each folder.
The papers of Grace Mott Johnson document her personal life through extensive correspondence with family, friends, and fellow artists, as well as her writings, photographs and original artwork. To a lesser degree these papers document her career as an exhibiting sculptor and civil rights activist.
Found within the Grace Mott Johnson papers are scattered biographical documents about the Grace and the Johnson families. Most of her papers consist of correspondence with family, including numerous letters to her son, Alfred Dasburg, friends, and fellow artists. Notable correspondents include John F. and Margaret Carlson, Florence Ballin Cramer, Jo Davidson, Florence Lucius, Walter Frankl, Lila Wheelock Howard, Henry Lee McFee, Mary Riley, Lee Simonson, Lindsey Morris Sterling, Alice Morgan Wright, Mabel Dodge Luhan, Vera Spier Kuhn, and others. Writings by Johnson include a very brief diary, poetry, her written account of two weeks in Taos, New Mexico, and other miscellaneous autobiographical writings. There are also a few writings by others. Scattered financial material includes receipts and account statements. Printed materials include one exhibition announcement and news clippings. Photographs are of Johnson, her family, friends, and works of art. Of note are photographs of Johnson with fellow artists, including a tintype of her with sculptors Florence Lucius and Jo Davidson. Johnson's artwork includes two folders of loose drawings and two sketchbooks, primarily of landscapes and animals.
The small amount of biographical material found here includes Johnson family documents, such as list of births, as well as a draft of Grace Mott Johnson's will from 1912 and her brief biography for the publication "Leading Women of America." Legal documents include Johnson family property deeds and a legal agreement regarding Johnson's living accommodations while in Egypt. Also found are her Art Students' League membership card and three exhibition labels for her art work at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts. Items are arranged chronologically within each folder.
Eighty years of Johnson's general correspondence primarily consists of personal letters with friends, family, and fellow artists. There is also a substantial amount of correspondence with her son, Alfred Dasburg. The bulk of the correspondence dates from 1906 to 1919.
Because Alfred spent most of his childhood living in Taos with his father, Andrew Dasburg, or away at school or camp, Johnson's correspondence with her son provides very candid and detailed accounts of her daily activities. The letters discuss her current artwork, news from her friends and relatives, and her travels, including her stay in Taos, New Mexico in 1919. Also included are numerous letters written during her stay in a mental hospital from 1937 to 1938. Many of her later letters to Alfred include reminiscences of her youth and extensive self-analysis.
General correspondence with other family and friends is extensive and most often discusses social events, news of family and friends, and other daily activities of the writer. Family correspondence includes numerous letters between Johnson and her siblings, especially her brother Van Cleve Johnson. Grace Mott Johnson corresponded with numerous painter and sculptor friends whom she met at the Art Students' League and in Woodstock, New York. Some of these include Marion Bullard, Russell Cowles, John F. and Margaret Carlson, Florence Ballin Cramer, Florence Lucius, Walter Frankl, Lila Wheelock Howard, with whom she shared a studio for a period of time, Thomas Hunt, Henry Lee McFee, Morgan Russell, Mary Riley, Lee Simonson, Lindsey Morris Sterling, and Alice Morgan Wright. Johnson was also close friends with the Davidson family, and found here is her correspondence with the sculptor Jo Davidson and his two sisters Ray and Rose. Other notable correspondence is with friend Vera Spier Kuhn, wife of artist Walt Kuhn, art patron Mable Dodge Luhan, journalist John Reed, gallery owner William Macbeth, and her psychiatrist Abraham Brill. Also found is a small amount of correspondence documenting Johnson's civil rights activities, including letters from the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
This subseries also includes the correspondence of Frances H. Johnson, Grace Mott Johnson's aunt, also known as Aunt Fanny, with whom she was very close. Found here are postcards and letters from family and friends as well as numerous letters between Frances and Grace Mott Johnson, including several detailed letters from Grace describing her time in Taos.
See Appendix B for a select list of correspondents from Series 2.2.
Found here are writings by Grace Mott Johnson and others. Writings by Johnson include two brief autobiographical writings describing her early life, such as living on a farm, her interest in art, and her art education. Also found is a diary giving an account of her daily activities for one week in 1904, various handwritten recipes and menus, and several issues of "The Johnson Monthly" a home-made magazine written by Grace and her siblings and illustrated by Grace. Of particular interest is a writing entitled "Two Weeks in New Mexico," Johnson's detailed account of her stay in a cottage belonging to Mabel Dodge Luhan in Taos, New Mexico, their attempt to attend an Indian dance, and her interaction with Andrew Dasburg while there. Additional miscellaneous writings by Johnson include poems, writings about civil rights, loose diary-style writings in which she expresses her thoughts on her early life and experiences with psychoanalysis, notes, lists, and other writing fragments, some of which may be draft letters. Writings by others include a draft of an address on natural history given by her relative John Van Cleve, poetry by others, and an essay "Shall Women Vote?" by an unidentified author. Items are arranged chronologically within each folder.
A small amount of financial material includes receipts for the delivery or casting of Johnson's sculptures and for the purchase of art supplies. Miscellaneous financial records primarily include account statements. Items are arranged chronologically within each folder.
Printed material includes a booklet containing essays on religion, an announcement for the exhibition of Johnson's artwork, and various news clippings of articles on the exhibition of her artwork and her civil rights activities. Miscellaneous printed material includes clippings of published poems and song lyrics by others and two Ringling Bros. Circus route schedules. Items are arranged chronologically within each folder.
Found here are photographs of Grace Mott Johnson, her family, friends, and artwork. Photographs of Johnson include a portrait of her as a small child and portraits of her as a young woman, as well as photographs of her in Yonkers, New York, on Monhegan Island in Maine, and in Taos, New Mexico. Also found are nude photographs of Johnson at the beach and bathing in a river, and photographs of her with her son Alfred. Photographs of Johnson with friends include a tintype of her with the artists Jo Davidson and Florence Lucius, another photograph of her with Lucius, with her friend and fellow artist Lila Wheelock Howard, with fellow artists Edward McCartan, Walter Frankl, and Carl Illava, and dining with various friends including the artist Henry Lee McFee. Also found here are a few photographs of other friends and family, and photographs of her artwork. Additional photographs of Johnson with Andrew Dasburg and others are found in Dasburg's papers, Series 1.5. Photographs are arranged by subject and chronologically within each folder.
This subseries contains artwork by Grace Mott Johnson, including loose drawings and two sketchbooks. Loose drawings include pen and ink drawings of horses and illustrations of animals and landscapes in pencil and charcoal for "The Johnson Monthly," a home-made magazine created by Johnson and her siblings. The sketchbook dating from circa 1901 to 1902 contains charcoal and pencil drawings of animals, landscapes, and other designs. The sketchbook from circa 1911 includes two pencil sketches of her son Alfred Van Cleve Dasburg, as well as drawings of animals and preliminary sketches for her sculptures. Items are arranged chronologically within each folder.
Records relating to the Chapter's commission of a memorial window for the Litchfield Historical Society. Included are: letters, 1905-1907 between Frederic Crowninshield, the artist who executed the commission, and members of the Window Committee (including Elizabeth C. Barney Buel, Chairman of the Committee and Regent of Chapter), two letters, 1905, from Russell Sturgis, architect, to Buel, one letter from Buel to Rev. Stoors O. Seymour, President of the Litchfield Historical Society and his reply to her,
and one letter, 1905, from Charles R. McNeil of Ross & McNeil, the architects who built the Litchfield Historical Society. Also includes fourteen committee reports submitted by Elizabeth C. Barney Buel and the Book and Unveiling Committees; an undated brochure explaining the memorial window project and soliciting contributions; and a program from the official unveiling of the window, July 5, 1907.
The papers of Don Raymond David and Andrée Golbin measure 3.6 linear feet and date from circa 1920-1980. Biographical materials include membership cards to various organizations for both David and Golbin, a graduation certificate for Golbin from the Parsons School of Design, and Andrée Golbin's Who's Who in American Art biographical information. Correspondence is to and from various artists, family members, and organizations and between Golbin and David. Writings consist of various travel diaries, as well as notebooks and lectures for classes taught by David. Personal business records include materials regarding the Creative Artists Public Service Program, dealer contracts, various weekly planners, and price lists for artwork. Printed material consists of exhibition catalogs and announcements, illustrations by Golbin for published works, and prints of sketches. Photographic material includes photographs, slides, and transparencies of Golbin, David, and both artists' artwork. Artwork consists of drawings, sketches, and sketchbooks by both David and Golbin.
Biographical material includes membership cards to various organizations for both David and Golbin, a graduation certificate for Golbin from the Parsons School of Design, and Andrée Golbin's Who's Who in American Art biographical information.
Correspondence is to and from various artists, family members, and organizations and between Golbin and David.
Writings consist of various travel diaries, as well as notebooks and lectures for classes taught by David.
Personal business records include materials regarding the Creative Artists Public Service Program, dealer contracts, financial ledgers and various weekly planners, and price lists for artwork.
Printed material consists of exhibition catalogs and announcements, illustrations by Golbin for published works, and prints of sketches.
Photographic material includes photographs, transparencies, and slides of Golbin, David, and both artists' artwork.
Artwork consists of drawings, sketches, and sketchbooks by both David and Golbin.
Sketchbooks; notebooks; correspondence; writings; scrapbooks; and art work.
REELS 1289-1293: 45 sketchbooks with notes, 1931-1975; etchings, engravings, watercolors and drawings by Davies; 26 notebooks, 1939-1967, of writings by Davies on art, history, philosophy, economics and other topics; business papers and correspondence, mostly pertaining to the Calabama Corporation; a manuscript copy of a history of French Impressionism by Theodore Bolton, 1936; and 12 scrapbooks of reproductions and articles on the work of other artists.
REEL 3646: Two landscape studies in oil, undated, and one portrait in ink, undated. [Also filmed on reel 3612.]
The papers of New York-based, Argentinian born conceptual and performance artist Jaime Davidovich, measure 2.3 linear feet and date from 1949 to 2014. The collection document's Davidovich's transition from Argentina to the United States, his early artistic career in both countries, specific projects and exhibitions, and the way in which Davidovich's work intersected with audiovisual media and the New York avant-garde in the 1960s and 1970s. Papers include biographical materials, correspondence, writings including memoirs, exhibition and project files, scrapbooks, and printed materials.
Biographical materials include Davidovich's contacts in address books, a certificate, curriculum vitae, a membership card, and a report card. A photograph album documents his New York apartment and studio after first coming to New York in the 1960s. Also found are records of the Wooster Street Corporation where Davidovich later lived and had his studio. A small amount of correspondence is with museums, galleries, artists, and curators, notably Julieta Hanono, Ilene Segalove, and Julia Herzberg, and includes early correspondence from Argentina during Davidovich's time as a student and a teacher in Buenos Aires.
Writings include artist statements, lecture note cards, a letter of recommendation, memoir drafts, and a manuscript about Davidovich by Carolyn Kinder Carr. Memoirs provide detailed information about Davidovich's childhood, education, and early career. Files for exhibitions consist of correspondence, notes, gallery floor plans, photographic material, lists of artwork, and exhibition announcements. Project files contain bound project books, proposals, correspondence, notes, sketches, photographic and source material for the Artists' Television Network, Wooster Enterprises, and other projects.
Three scrapbooks record Davidovich's career in fine arts and design. Printed material includes art reproductions, books, brochures and booklets, clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, flyers, periodicals, posters, and press releases.
Much of the later correspondence found in the collection is in the form of printed email; later photographic material is in the form of digitially printed photograhs.
The bulk of material related to Davidovich's artworks, especially later ones, and the artworks themselves are located at NYU Fales Library.
Biographical materials consist of four address books, a certificate recognizing Davidovich's contributions to Artworks 84 at the Louisiana World's Fair, a curriculum vitae with photos of artwork, a membership card, and a school report card. Also found is a photograph album with images of Davidovich's New York apartment and studio, friends and family, and colleagues from a job at a bookstore. Receipts are for art supplies and artwork purchased by Davidovich with accompanying certificates of antiquity. Records relating to the 152 Wooster Street Corporation, which provided living quarters and studio space for artists including Davidovich, include bylaws, meeting minutes, records of renovations, and other financial and legal records documenting the ownership and management of the building, and the sale of Davidovich's apartment.
Correspondence is with museums, galleries, and artists, including a several items each from artist Julieta Hanono and curator Julia Herzberg. Correspondence with Ilene Segalove is more extensive with twelve pieces of correspondence discussing Segalove's "TV is OK" Productions among other things. Early correspondence includes letters from Davidovich's tenure as a teacher and superintendent of visual art in Bahía Blanca, Argentina. Also found is the transcript of an interview with Davidovich by Pedro Cuperman during the Latin American Forum at the 2005 Syracuse University Film and Video Festival.
Writings are generally by Davidovich and include artist statements, note cards and related material for a lecture he delivered at the School of Visual Arts, and a letter of recommendation for Carla Stellweg, curator and consultant for The Latin American Spirit: Art and Artists in the US, 1920-1970 among other exhibitions. Also found are outlines, drafts, and edited manuscripts with questions, of Davidovich's memoirs. The memoirs record events dating from childhood, and document Davidovich's education, his transition to the United States, and the subsequent development of his career. Memoir material includes a photograph of Davidovich with Jorge Luis Borges, and layouts for photographs.
An untitled manuscript about Davidovich written by Carolyn Kinder Carr is housed at the end of the series.
Exhibition files include correspondence, gallery floor plans, lists of artwork, exhibition announcements, publicity material, photographs of artwork and a few scattered photos of Davidovich, and other documents related to exhibitions of Davidovich's paintings and video installations. Included are files for Size Matters, a traveling exhibition featuring former World Trade Center Residency participants; and the retrospective Biting the Hand That Feeds You at the Artium Museum in Spain, which includes correspondence with the exhibition curator, Arturo "Fito" Rodriguez.
Davidovich's project files contain bound project books consisting primarily of photocopied documents compiled to document specific projects, proposals, correspondence, notes and sketches, source material, and photographic material. The series documents some of Davidovich's most well-known projects including some for the Artists' Television Network which produced The Live! Show, and Wooster Enterprises, the design studio and retail outlet established by Davidovich and Judith Henry in 1976. Also found are portfolios and original artwork Davidovich produced as a designer for various companies, including National Potteries where he served as Design Director.
Wooster Enterprises records include bound books published by the company, stationary sets, photocopies of a "Sound and Unbound" catalog, a bound set of photocopied invoices, and a publication produced in conjunction with the Wooster Enterprises exhibition at Churner and Churner in 2012.
Also found are a video notebook with notes and sketches for an unidentified project; a book of sketches and notes labeled "paintings, "backdrops," and "Cleveland 1984," which contains lists, sketches, and notes for a Dr. Videovich art lesson; and proposals for a workshop and a Guggenheim Fellowship. One book produced by the American Museum of the Moving Image includes hand-colored sketches and is housed with three additional loose sketches.
Source material consists primarily of postcards and photographs of televisions. Many of these have alphanumeric codes attached to, or written on them, which have been retained with the items, although their significance is not known.
Includes photos and floor plans of religious buildings, images of logos, and notes.
Includes drawings, notes, and photographic material.
Includes notes on "The Road," an application and contract with Manhattan Cable TV, and news articles on video art.
Includes slides of artwork for a The Live! Show installation.
Three scrapbooks, containing mainly printed material, record Davidovich's career accomplishments in fine arts and design.
The scrapbook of career activities includes photographs of Davidovich and Herbert Read in Montreal, exhibition announcements, and correspondence. The design scrapbooks include book covers and a few mock-ups designed by Davidovich for publishers including Random House, for which he also designed a logo, and other photographs and samples of Davidovich's print design work.
Printed material documents Davidovich's career through books about him and his work, announcements and catalogs, press clippings, and other publicity, for exhibitions and other events he participated in throughout his career.
Includes articles about Davidovich, SoHo, garbage art, and art events.
The James Edward Davis papers measure 3.8 linear feet and date from circa 1917-1970. Biographical materials consist of a resume, an interview with Davis, and certificates related to his career and schooling. Correspondence consists of letters between himself and his agent Rosalind Kossoff, Frank Lloyd Wright, John Marin Jr., and others. Writings includes notebooks pertaining to his many projects and personal business records are composed of documents relating to his career and his time spent in Princeton, New Jersey, as well as artwork appraisals. Printed material is made up of exhibition announcements and catalogs, news clippings, press releases, and other documents. Photographic materials include photographs from various film projects and exhibits, as well as personal photographs. Artwork consists of a group of sketches showing a figure in motion.
Biographical material includes Davis's resume, certificates relating to his career, and the transcript of an interview with Davis by Bruce Friar.
Correspondence is between Davis and Rosalind Kossoff, Frank Lloyd Wright, John Marin Jr., and Laszlo Moholy-Nagy, as well as others.
Writings includes notebooks consisting of notes and narratives on each project, news clippings and other articles, drawings, and photographs. Also included are an article written by Cecile Starr and miscellaneous writings.
Personal business records include materials relating to the Graham Foundation for Advanced Studies in the Fine Arts, a signed petition to keep Davis as a resident of Princeton, New Jersey, and the artist record for Davis at the Museum of Modern Art. Also included are bills and receipts for artwork sales, and artwork appraisals.
Printed material consists of exhibition announcements and catalogs, a convocation program for the Kiski school, news clippings and press releases, and publications featuring Davis's artwork.
Photographic materials consist of photographs of images from Davis's films. Also included are photographs from his personal life.
Artwork consists of a group of sketches showing a figure in motion.
The scattered papers of painter Jean Davidson measure 0.4 linear feet and date from 1959 to 1995. Found are biographical material, correspondence, drawings, notes, photographs, and printed material. Also found is a video recording of an interview with Davidson conducted by David Howard.
Biographical materials include a resume. Correspondence is with friends including De Hirsh Marqules. Drawings include pencil portraits and one color abstraction. Photographs depict Davidson in her studio and her artwork. Printed material includes clippings and exhibition announcements and catalogs. Also included is a VHS recording of an interview, entitled "Maximum Minimalism" with Jean Davidson conducted by David Howard.
Two checklists compiled by Davis of prints by Yasuo Kuniyoshi (one of lithographs 1922-1949, the other of etchings 1916-1931).
Diary excerpts relating to American art, mentioning John Trumbull, William Rush, and Rembrandt (?) Peale.
This microfilm collection of the papers of African American artist and museum curator Charles C. Dawson dates from 1910 to 1980. It includes biographical material; a 536 page draft of an autobiography; and correspondence. Correspondence includes United States Infantry correspondence and records, 1912-1923; general correspondence, 1917-1980; correspondence and financial records dealing with Dawson's book ABCs of Great Negroes, 1932-1945; and drafts and fragments of letters written by Dawson. Also included in the collection are miscellaneous business and financial records; writings and notes, including rough drafts, notes, and typescripts; printed material inclduing news releases, newsletters, program notices, newspaper clippings, and miscellaneous published items; and photographs of Dawson, his family, friends, and others.
Correspondence, business files, subject files, biographical material, clippings, scrapbooks, sketches and sketchbooks, notes and speeches, exhibition catalogues and invitations, financial records, and photographs of de Botton and his work.
The papers of sculptor Janet deCoux measure 3.92 linear feet and date from 1895 to 2000. Found within the papers are scattered biographical material, including curriculum vitae and a file concerning deCoux's induction as a Distinguished Daughter of Pennsylvania. Correspondence is primarily between family, friends, and colleagues. It includes letters from Carl Milles, Bruce Moore, C.P. Jennewein, the Guild of Liturgy, Art and Design (GLAD), the Liturgical Arts Society, Inc., sculptor James Earle Fraser, offering advice on various sculpture projects, his wife Laura Gardin Fraser, a letter of congratulations from Paul Manship on the occasion of deCoux's election to the National Academy of Design, and approximately fifty letters, 1944-1952, from Anne Morrow Lindbergh, writer and wife of aviator Charles Lindbergh. There are also one or two letters from Lu Duble, Joseph Bailey Ellis, Mark Tobey, and Albert Wein.
Found within the papers are a transcript of an interview of deCoux by George Gurney, and audio cassettes with transcripts of an autobiographical narrative by deCoux. Miscellaneous notes and writings include autobiographical accounts and poems by deCoux and miscellaneous writings by others. Seven of deCoux's sketchbooks and a folder of drawings by deCoux, as well as a portrait of deCoux by C. Paul Jennewein are found in the Artwork series. Project files contain letters, receipts, clippings, brochures, and photographs for sculpture projects primarily commissioned by religious organizations. Printed material includes clippings, exhibition catalogs, and miscellaneous brochures. Photographs are of deCoux, family members, friends including Anne Morrow Lindbergh and her children, colleagues including James Earle Fraser, Laura Gardin Fraser, Carl Milles, and Bruce Moore, and sculpture.
Biographical material includes curriculum vitae, report cards, and passports. A file for the Distinguished Daughter of Pennsylvania Medal contains letters, a transcript of the ceremony, programs, directories, and photographs of the ceremony and other recipients including actress Grace Kelly. Miscellaneous family material includes a funeral card for deCoux's aunt Minnie, miscellaneous genealogical notes, and locks of deCoux's hair and her mother's hair.
Correspondence is primarily between deCoux and family members, friends including Anne Morrow Lindbergh, and colleagues including Abastenia St. Leger Eberle, James Earle Fraser, Laura Gardin Fraser, Camille Grapin, Carl Milles, and Bruce Moore. There are one or two letters each from Lu Duble, Joseph Bailey Ellis, Mark Tobey, and Albert Wein.
Eleven letters from James Earle Fraser, two letters from Laura Gardin Fraser, and one letter from Paul Manship have been microfilmed on reel 4909, and are arranged together in one folder.
This series consists of a transcript of an interview of deCoux conducted by George Gurney on May 5, 1978, and audiocassettes with transcripts of an autobiographical narrative by deCoux.
This series includes miscellaneous notes and writings including autobiographical accounts and poems by deCoux. Miscellaneous writings by others include poems and a prayer written by deCoux's father, Charles J. deCoux.
Artwork consists of sketchbooks and drawings including a pencil portrait of deCoux by C. Paul Jennewein.
Project files contain letters, receipts, clippings, brochures, and photographs concerning sculpture projects primarily commissioned by religious organizations.
Printed material includes clippings, exhibition catalogs, reproductions of artwork, programs, a passenger list from deCoux's European trip, a high school yearbook, and miscellaneous brochures.
Photographs are of deCoux, family members, friends including Anne Morrow Lindbergh and her children, colleagues including James Earle Fraser, Laura Gardin Fraser, Henry Kreis, Carl Milles, Bruce Moore, and students at Cranbrook Academy of Art, residences, deCoux's studio, and of an exhibition at the Carnegie Institute. Photographs are also of artwork for which project files were not created.
(1 glass plate negatives housed in MGP 1)
The papers of printmaker and painter Adolf Dehn measure 6.6 linear feet and date from 1912-1987. The collection contains extensive correspondence, as well as writings, exhibition announcements, catalogs, clippings, invoices, receipts, legal documents, scrapbooks, artwork, and photographs. There is also scattered correspondence of Virginia Dehn, mostly concerning her husband Adolf Dehn.
Found within the biographical materials are several address books, official travel documents, exhibition price lists, and a biographical sketch.
Correspondence, both personal and business, makes up the bulk of this collection. Dehn maintained long friendships with many fellow artists and his correspondence includes letters from Aaron Bohrod, Federico Castellon, Albert Christ-Janer, Wanda Gág, Gustav Goetsch, George Grosz, Reginald Marsh, Elizabeth Olds, Abraham Rattner, Boardman Robinson, Frederick Shane, William Smith, and Benton Spruance. Additional notable correspondents include print dealer and curator Carl Zigrosser; journalists Max Eastman, Joseph Freeman, Frederick Kuh; editor Scofield Thayer, and his former wife, the Russian dancer Mura Dehn (neé Tsiperovitch). Business correspondence includes letters from art schools, associations, museums, and galleries affiliated with Dehn, including the Weyhe Gallery; Associated American Artists, a gallery that promoted American art to the middle classes; and the Kennedy Gallery, which represented the Dehn estate upon the artist's death. There is also correspondence from companies and organizations that commissioned commercial work from Dehn, such as greeting card publisher, American Artists Group. Finally the correspondence of Virginia Dehn includes letters to and from the University of Missouri Press related to the publication of Adolf Dehn Drawings and condolence cards and letters from friends and associates after the Adolf Dehn's death in May 1968.
Writings include manuscripts for Adolf Dehn's manual on painting technique, Watercolor, Gouache, and Casein Painting (Studio Publications, 1955), as well as his entries on technique and watercolor painting for Encyclopedia Britannica. Writings by others includes the catalog Adolf Dehn Drawings, prepared by his wife Virginia Dehn, and published in 1971 by the University of Missouri Press. There is also a journal with handwritten poems attributed to Eileen Hall Lake.
Printed materials consists of exhibition announcements and catalogs from galleries featuring Dehn's work including the Weyhe Gallery and Associated American Artists; art school brochures and newsletters from programs which Dehn attended or taught; and newspaper and magazine clippings including examples of his editorial cartoons, which appeared in The Liberator, The New Yorker, and Vanity Fair, among other publications as well as clippings of news items related to the artist. This series also includes examples of Dehn's commercial work, such as book covers, calendars, and Christmas cards. Additional similar printed materials can be found in the scrapbooks. Artwork consists of only a few sketches attributed to Dehn, others to Eileen Lake Hall, and an etching by S.W. Hayter.
Dehn is well documented through numerous photographs, both alone and with others, including a portrait by the renowned photographer André Kertész. Additional vintage photographs include Dehn with family members, friends, and a series of photographs taken with his wife, Virginia Dehn at Atelier Desjobert, where he had been making lithographs since the 1920s.
This series includes address books, a biographical sketch, insurance policies, interview transcript, exhibition price lists, and leases. A folder of travel documents consists of correspondence, a set of fingerprints, and official government documents, obtained for a trip to Venezuela on assignment from Standard Oil to create art documenting the oil industry and contribution to the war efforts. Additionally there is a folder labeled government documents that contains a registration card and two affidavits signed by Dehn; one in connection with his 1926 marriage to Mura Dehn (neé Tsiperovich) and the other is in support of a U.S. non-immigrant visa for Willis Bock. Notably, exhibition price lists includes a list of lithographs that Dehn made with the master printer Desjobert in Paris, between July 1 and October 23, 1961.
Series is comprised of Adolf Dehn's personal and professional correspondence, consisting of letters, postcards, greeting cards, and telegrams from family, close friends, artists, dealers, collectors and museum directors. Additionally there is a separate group of Virginia Dehn's correspondence. More detailed description is provided at the subseries level.
Files consist of letters and cards that document his relationships with family, friends, artists and associates and to a lesser extent his work processes and travels. Letters written by Adolf Dehn are also included in this subseries, both in separate folders that primarily contain letters to his first wife Mura, and scattered throughout the subseries in the form of drafted responses to other correspondents.
Notable correspondents include fellow artists George Biddle, Aaron Bohrod, Albert Christ-Janer, Wanda Gág, Reginald Marsh, Abraham Rattner, Boardman Robinson and Frederick Shane; associates from political and literary magazines including Max Eastman, Joseph Freeman, Frederick Kuh, and Scofield Thayer; and former gallery director and print curator Carl Zigrosser. The letters of artist Federico Castellon may be of particular interest as they contain numerous mentions of printmaking processes and descriptions of working with Parisian master printers Desjobert and Dimitri, with whom Dehn also worked.
A., Ethel
Adler, Elmer
Adlerblum, Clara
Alpine Lodge Resort
American Consular Service
Arms, John Taylor
Audubon Artists, Inc.
Auerbach-Levy
Baker, Mildred
Barber, John
Barber, Joseph
Bassett, Lawrence
Bean, Marshall
Beecher, Catharine
Bendiner, Alfred
Benney, Robert
Berenda, Dr. Ruth
Berly, Rosario
Bernstein, Lumarie
Biddle, George
Biddle, Michael ?
Blanch, Arnold
Boni, charles
Booth, Cameron
Bowser, Frank
Brenner, Dan
Brown, Gladys
Bui[ck], Jacob
California State Library
Calow, Richard
Canadé, Eugene
Chadeayne, Bob
Chambers, George
Chappell, Warren
Christ-Janer, Marylon and Ed
Clapp, Eleanor
Clements, Frank Milton
Clohset, Virginia 
Cochran, Daisy Dehn
Cole, Sylvan
Condé Nast
Crafts, James
Crowell, Robert
Crowninshield, Frank
Curry, William Lee
Davidson, Mr. and Mrs. Arthur O.
De[l], Maggie
DeKnight, [Avel?]
DePeri, Jean
Desjobert, Nicole and Philippe
Diamond, Lillian
Diamond, Sigmund and Shirley
Dorne, Albert
Dorne, Edna
Eastman, Max
Eberman, Edwin
Egilsrud, Johan S.
Eichenberg, Fritz
Elser, Helen
Elwell, Lulu (Mrs. Hector H.)
Er[?], A.
Eulau, Henrietta
Fitzpatrick, D.R.
Florsheim, Richard
Forni, Florence
Foster, Betty
Frickel, Genevieve
Fuller, Mary (Mrs. B. Frank)
Gahn, Joseph A.
Garfield, George
Getlein, Frank
Geyer, Linda
Gibson, Lydia
Gille, Marjorie
Godfrey
Goebel, Dorothy
Goetsch, Gustav
Golden, Allen
Goldstein, Ben
González, Xavier
Goodridge, Elinor
Greathouse, W.S.
Greenstein, Ben
Greenwood, Marion
Griffel, Maurice
Grosz, George
Guitar, Mary Anne
Hagerman, Percy
Hale, Robert B.
Hamaguchi, Yozo
Harbeson, John
Harrison, B[ob?]
Haskell, Helen (Mrs. Douglas)
Hechenbleikner, Louis
Hein
Helck, Peter
Hempel, Willy
Hendricks, Harry
Hennefrund, Elizabeth
Hodgins, Eric and Eleanor
Hoessein, M
Horner, Peter
Howell, A[?] (Mrs. Peter)
Humphreys, Earle
Huntley, Victoria
Inokuma, Genichiro
Jacobs, M.E.
Jensen, Karen Marie
Jolink, Bette
K., Homer[?]
Keady, Joe (G.J.)
Kent, Sally
Klau, Judy
Klein, Samuel
Klemm, Robert (Mrs. Douglas)
Knight, Eric
Knight, Jere
Kretzmann, Adalbert Raphael
Kruse, Vera
Kumar, Ravi
L[?], Jo Ouren
La Steed, G[?]
Lall, Kiran ("Tookie")
Lamping, Mrs. Bernard
Landau, Fran
Lauritz, Paul
Lebeau, Frank (Mrs. Douglas)
Lee, Doris
Lewis, Sinclair
Lie, Jonas
Lichtenstein, Samuel
Litchfield, Donald
Logue, Alberta
Lotos Club
Luid, Helen
MacGregor, Robert
Mack, Caroline
Magill, Wallace
Malkin, Jean
Malkine, Yvette Ledoux
Mandel, Estelle
Manuelito, Dennis
Marbury, Elizabeth
Marks, Gerald
Marsh, Felicia
Marsh, Reginald
Märtens, Klaus
Mayers, Ralph and Bena
Maxwell, Donald
McBride, Henry
McCue, Lillian
McGee, Olivia
McGeeney, Joe
McIntyre, Jen and Bob[?]
McPhill, Peter
Milch, Harold and Harriet
Miller, Charles
Moe, Vesta (Mrs. Lester)
Monahan, Gene
Moore, Douglas
Moore, Ruth
Moyer, Verna
Muench, Jack
Muir, Willa
Mulloy, John
Nash, William
Navas, Elizabeth
Nuessle, Amelia
Nuessle, William "Bill"
Oldfield, E.
Olds, Elizabeth
Olesen, Anna Dickie
Orloff, Arthur
Pearson, John
Peters, Carol
Pfister, Ed
Pierce, Bruce
Plyer, Freddy
Polk, R. Brooke
Pritchard, Beth
Pollack, Raphael
Pollak, D.
R[?bert], Janice
Reinhardt, Ed
Riccius, Hermann
Richardson, Rebecca
Roesler, Nora (Mrs. C.G.)
Rose, Dorothy
Rosenhauft, Hans
Rosenev, Simon
Ruotolo, Onorio
Ryan, Marion
(5 of the 6 letters are illustrated)
S., Ellen
Salinas, Marcel and Sue
Sargent, Lynda
Sch[?], Sonia
Scherman, Harry
Schlesinger, Edward
Schless, G.
Schmelkebier, Alexandra
Schoenberg, Carolyn
Scholl, Phoebe K.
Schwedel, J. B. Dr.
Scott, Hugo
Seem, Martha
Seldes, Gilbert
Seldes, Helen and George
Seward, William
Shelly, Charlotte
Shufelt, Velra Hutchinson
Shweig, Martye
Slidell, Mrs. John (Hallie Brooke)
Slotnick, M.
Smalley, Ernest
Smith, Bill
Smith, M
Smith, Maghe
Sparks, Maebelle
Spicer, Alice
Spruance, Benton
Steffe[ri?], B.
Stengel, Leni
Stephen, Harry
Stuart, Bruce
Swift, Dick
Thayer, Ellen
Thompson, Nat
Tiala, Al
Trounstine, John
Tsiperovitch, Boris
Tsiperovitch, David
Tuckerman, Elise
Uhry, Alene
Ultes, Elizabeth
Untermeyer, Louis
Van Veem, Felicia
Veltman, Joyce
Vereisky, Orest
Vroom, Peter
Wakita, Kazu
Weedon, Ella Howell
Weinstein, Max
Weithman, Joan
Wengenroth, Stow
West, Clifford
Wilder, M.A.
Wilke, Wyert[?]
Wunderlich, Paul
Zecher, Alice
Zellmer, Rev. N.W. (Nel)
Zeitt, Elizabeth
Zinders, Earl
Zucker, Paul
Zuckers, Jacques and Nina
Business correspondence documents Dehn's career and professional associations. Files consist of letters from galleries, museum directors, collectors, publishers, researchers, greeting card companies, researchers, and government officials.
Gallery correspondence includes exhibitions lists, consignment lists, sales invoices and accounts and records galleries from across the United States that sold Dehn's prints and watercolors. Business correspondence documents early representation of his work by the Weyhe Gallery and his long association with both Associated American Artists, an art gallery that marketed art, primarily prints, to the middle class; and American Artists Group, a greeting card company, an organization created to provide work for artists during the Depression by commissioning original artwork. Generally, correspondence from museums and universities contains information about exhibitions of Dehn's work.
A.B. Closson, Jr. Co.
Abbott Laboratories
Addison Gallery of American Art
Allentown Art Museum
Allied Publications, Inc.
American Federation of Arts
American Institute of Graphic Arts (AIGA)
American National Red Cross
Amon Carter Museum of Western Art
Archives of American Art
Argus Gallery
Art Directors Club
Art Museum of the New Britain Institute
Art Students League of New York
Associated Artists of Pittsburgh
Audobon Artists
Bay Head Cultural Center
Balfe, Jim
Baltimore Museum of Art
Birmingham Museum of Art
Bisonte
Book-of-the-Month Club
Brooklyn Museum
Brown and Bigelow
Brown, Gladys
Butler Institute of American Art
Capricorn Galleries
Cargill, Incorporated
Carnegie Institute
Carter Travel Service
Charles and Emma Frye Free Public Art Museum
Charles E. Slatkin Galleries
Chase Gallery
Chemstrand
Cincinnati Art Museum
Clarkson N. Potter, Inc.
Cleveland Museum of Art
Clugston, Sue
Colorado Springs Fine Arts Center
Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company
Copins, Edna
Country Beautiful
Cushing Galleries
Daytons Department Store
DePauw University (John Cain)
Doeskin Products
Drake, Lawrence
Edmond et Jacques Desjobert
Embassy of the United States - Athens, Greece
Encyclopedia Britannica
Estelle Mandel
Famous Artists Schools
Farrar and Rinehart
Federal Support for the Visual Arts
Fendrick Gallery
Field Enterprises Educational Corporation
Fine American Art Calendar Program
Fine Arts Associates
Finlandia Foundation
Fireman's Fund American Insurance Companies
Fischer, Rosamond
Ford Foundation
Fortune
Frank Partridge Gallery of Contemporary Artists
Gallant, Mrs. W.E.
Gallery of Modern Art
General Theological Seminary
Geo. Nix Gallery
Gimbel Brothers
Glassboro State College
Granrud, Carl F.
Grier, William H.
Haley, Anne
Harmon Foundation
Harry Salpeter Gallery, Inc.
Hendrika Hobbelink Kaastra Gallery
Horner, Peter
Houghton Mifflin Company
Huntington Township Art League
Indiana Bank and Trust Company
International Art Publishing Co.
Ithaca College
J.J. Little and Ives Co.
John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation
John Price Jones Company
Keady, Joseph (G.J.)
Kenneth W. Brooks, A.I.A.
Ketterlinus Lithographic Manufacturing Company
Kircher, Helton and Collett, Inc.
Krasner Gallery
Le Sueur Country Historical Society
Lezius and Hiles Co.
The Liberater
Library of Congress
Living American Art
Look
Loring's Art Gallery
Louis Comfort Tiffany Foundation
Louisiana State University
Low, Sanford B.
Lutheran Brotherhood
Macy's New York
Mark Twain Journal
Maxwell Galleries
McCormick, Madelaine
Michigan State College
Mickelson Gallery
Milch Galleries
Miller, Frank
Minneapolis (City of)
The Minneapolis Star and Tribune
Minneapolis School of Art
 Minnetonka Center of Arts and Education
Mitch Morse Gallery
Montclair Art Museum
Mostro Internazionale di Lugano di Bianco e Nero
Mulert, Johan
Museum of Modern Art, New York
The Nation
National Arts Club
National Council of Jewish Women
National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.
New Britain Museum of American Art
New York Times (John Canaday)
Newark Museum
New York World's Fair
Nina Kaiden Ruder and Finn
O'Dwyer and Bernstien
Office of the Postmaster, New York
Ohio Expositions Commission
Ohio State Fair
Ohio University
Optometric Center of New York
Pepsi-Cola
Palm Springs Desert Museum
Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts
Peter M. David Gallery
Philadelphia Art Alliance
Philadelphia Museum of Art
Pratt Center for Contemporary Printmaking
Prentice-Hall
Print Club of Rochester
Rochester Art Center
Rockefeller University
Rosenwald, Lessing J.
Roth and Riseman
Rudolph Galleries
Sachs Quality Stores
St. Peter's Episcopal Church
Seward, William W.
Sigmund Freud Archives, New York
Smithsonian Institution
Stamford Museum and Nature Center
State Historical Society of Missouri
Staten Island Institute of Arts and Sciences
Styline
Syracuse University
Temple University
Thieme, Lillian B.
UNESCO
University of Maine
University of Minnesota
Union Tipografica Editorial Hispano Americana (UTEHA)
Verlag Mensch und Arbeit
Village Art Center
Voice of American
Wadsworth Atheneum
Wagner College
Waldemar Medical Research Foundation
Walker Art Center
WCET
Weddige, Emil
Werner, Alfred
Who's Who
Woodmere Art Festival
World Biography
York Art Center
Files consist of the general, personal and business correspondence of Virginia Dehn. General A-Z correspondence includes both personal letters, including notes her sister-in-law Viola Tiala recalling Dehn's early years and business letters, primarily from galleries and museums concerning her or her late husband's art work. There are separate files of condolence letters and cards received from friends and associates. Additionally there are several files of correspondence with the University of Missouri Press related to the publication of a book on the prints and drawings of Adolf Dehn, which includes signed contracts and third-party correspondence with Dehn collectors.
Artists Equity Association
Biddle, George
Bohrod, Aaron
Bowser, Frank
Chelsea Art Festival
Constantine, Mildred
Dasburg, Al and Ann
Eastern States Art Exhibition
Fiene, Ernest
Gareck, Mr. and Mrs. Robert
Granrud, Carl
International Exhibitions Foundation
Larcada Gallery
Lewis
Oehlschlaeger, Everett
Ogg, Oscar
Perls, Frank
Peter M. David Gallery
Phamp, Evelyn
Pope, Mrs. John
Preventive Medicine Institute-Strang Clinic
Smith, Kim
Solomon, Elke
Sussman, Bonnie K.
Tiala, Violet
Zigrosser, Carl
Found in this series are manuscripts, typescripts, and author's proofs of works written by Dehn and others. The bulk of this series consists of professional writings by Dehn including a drafts of articles on watercolor paintings and techniques for the Encyclopedia Britannica; the typescript and author's proof's for his book Watercolor, Gouache, and Casein Painting (1955); and profiles of artists Alois Lang and Boardman Robinson. Writings by others include a draft for Adolf Dehn Drawings, which was published by the University of Missouri Press, as well as poetry attributed to Eileen Hall Lake.
Found in this series are invoices and receipts, the bulk of which are from Associated American Artists, which document works on consignment, artist account information, as well as receipts for framing and photography services, There is also a file of travel related receipts and another of receipts for medical treatment. Federal and state income tax returns for the years 1940-1942 are also included in this series.
Items in this series include exhibition announcements, catalogs, brochures, clippings, article reprints, programs, and other publications. There are also examples of Dehn's commercial work, including Christmas cards, calendars featuring Dehn's watercolor scenes, and a sample of wallpaper, as well as reproductions of his fine art work.
Exhibitions announcements and catalogs are for one-man exhibitions and group shows that featured his art, with scattered announcements and catalogs for other artists work, including his wife Virginia Dehn. Catalogs and announcements from Associated American Artists document limited edition prints, Christmas cards, and other object by their artist members that were available for sale. Included was a catalog of Dehn prints and portfolios to mark his twenty fifth year as a celebrated printmaker; this catalog is a source of valuable information about Dehn's print oeuvre as it includes image, titles, creation dates, plate dimensions and prices. There is also announcements and brochures from The Adolf Dehn Print Club, a print society established by the artist in 1934 to promote and distribute his work.
Clippings are primarily about Dehn and his work, but there are also scattered articles on other artists, art criticism and general news items. Publications include two issues of Improvisations, a journal published in conjunction with the Artists Equity Associations annual Spring Fantasia, in which the artists contributed illustrations for sympathetic advertisers and a book of poetry by Mura Dehn, the artists first wife.
Other printed materials found in this series include publishers catalogs that contained books illustrated by Dehn, art school brochures and newsletters from programs at which Dehn taught or attended, event programs, and an annotated insurance company calendar. Additional printed materials can be found in Dehn's scrapbooks.
This series consists of three scrapbooks. One scrapbook contains clippings of editorial cartoons by Dehn's mentor and friend, the artist Boardman Robinson; the other two scrapbooks contain clippings, editorial cartoons, and exhibition announcements related to Dehn. Additionally there are several files of loose items that have become separated from the scrapbooks that contained them. There is a file of loose items that has been labeled "Extra Items from Scrapbook," a title provided by an earlier processor for a discrete group of documents that consist of a handwritten biographical note, photographs, and clippings. It is not known which scrapbook originally contained these items.
One of the Dehn scrapbooks (Scrapbook I) is comprised of large loose sheets on which clippings, editorial cartoons, telegrams, programs, and exhibition announcements have been affixed. Included among the files of loose items are two early ink drawings of Gibson Girls by Dehn, posters, examples of his Christmas cards, as well as additional clippings and exhibition announcements.
The other scrapbook (Scrapbook II) contains similar items, the bulk of which have remained affixed to the pages. Although unbound, the pages are stored within the front and back covers. Dehn's faded monogram is visible on the front cover. This scrapbook begins with a high school graduation announcement from 1914 and contains clippings and exhibition announcements that span from that early date to 1942. It also includes a loose 1929 announcement from the Weyhe Gallery, which contains a brief note to his mother and sister reporting early sales of his work form the exhibition.
Additional clippings, exhibition announcements, as well as examples of Dehn's editorial cartoons, magazine covers, and Christmas card designs can be found in the Printed Materials series.
This series contains sketches and artwork by Dehn and others. Items include 4 sketches attributed to Adolf Dehn; graphite and ink sketches attributed to Eileen Hall Lake, which were originally stored with her poetry journal that can be found in the subseries Writings by Others; and an etching by S.W. Hayter.
Photographs in this series include a vintage gelatin silver print portrait of Adolf Dehn by André Kertész; vintage photographs of Dehn with family members; Dehn with friends, including Lawrence Barnett, Federico Castellon, Albert Christ-Janer; with his former wife Mura; two sets of photobooth photographs taken on separate occasions with Eileen Hall Lake and Willis Bock; and a series of photographs of Adolf and Virginia taken at Atelier Desjobert. Many of these vintage photographs are annotated on the verso. There is also a panoramic view of Camp Wadsworth, Spartenburg, South Carolina, where Dehn was detained as a conscientious objector of World War I. Also found are several photographic reproductions of Dehn's drawings, lithographs, and watercolors.
The papers of sculptor Dorothy Dehner measure 4 linear feet and date from 1920 to 1987, with the bulk of the material dating from 1951 to 1987. The collection documents Dehner's life, work, and professional and personal relationships, with particular focus on her mid-to-late career. Papers include extensive correspondence, business and financial papers, sound recordings and transcripts of interviews, writings by Dehner and others, printed material documenting Dehner's career, scattered photographs, two etchings, and scattered personal papers and material relating to David Smith.
Comprising a series of biographical material are personal papers such as notes on Dehner's biography and career, a list of things taken from Bolton Landing, and material relating to David Smith including a copy of his last will and testament, a letter of introduction (dating from their trip to Europe in the mid-1930s), and a chronology of Smith's life.
Correspondence consists of numerous letters and enclosures concerning both professional and personal matters. Correspondents include artists, museums, galleries, art dealers, researchers, curators, friends, and relatives. Correspondence documents Dehner's various personal and professional relationships, the active role she played in promoting and exhibiting her art work, as well as the key role she played in fostering art historical research on David Smith, herself, and other artists of her era, and her many other creative activities, including her various writing efforts.
Interviews include sound recordings of four interviews with Dehner, and a recording of an interview conducted with her for a documentary on David Smith. Also found is a transcription of an interview for which there is no recording.
Writings shed light on other aspects of Dehner's creativity and concerns. Dehner's writings include poems, such as one dated from high school and drafts of poems published in Tracks); and various pieces on John Graham. These include versions of a memoir, which were published as a foreword to the re-issue of System and Dialectics of Art, and as an article in Leonardo). Also found are writings on David Smith, including articles recalling Dehner's first meeting with him, and on Smith's 1940 work "Medals for Dishonor;" lectures and speeches; and various writings on art and other topics. Writings by others include essays on Dehner by Joan Marter and Judith McCandless.
Dehner's business and financial records document transactions with various galleries and art organizations and include records of loans, exhibitions, and sales through files for the Parsons-Dreyfuss Gallery, Philadelphia Art Alliance, Willard Gallery, and others. The series also includes scattered records relating to personal business matters and finances, such as Dehner's lists of artwork loaned, exhibited, and sold, receipts, tax records, and exhibition visitor books.
Printed material includes exhibition catalogs and announcements for Dehner's group and solo shows, and clippings on Dehner and a few other artists including David Smith. Artwork consists of two etchings, and photographs include photographs of Dehner, her second husband Ferdinand Mann, John Graham, and various works of art. Also found is an abstract photograph by David Smith, dating from circa 1934.
Series consists of scattered material shedding light on different aspects of Dehner's life and work. Included are various notes and lists created by Dehner consisting of information pertaining to her biography and career; a list of things that Dehner took with her when she left Bolton's Landing in 1951-1952; copies of selected clippings and typescript copies featuring press comments on Dehner's work in the mid-to late-1960s; proofs and copies of her biographical sketch in the publication, Who's Who; a photocopy of the honorary degree she received from Skidmore College; and a wedding announcement for her stepdaughter, Abby Mann Thernstrom.
Also found here is some material relating to David Smith, including a chronology submitted for Dehner's review and bearing her editing marks, a copy of Smith's last will and testament, a letter of introduction for Smith from Audrey McMahon of the College Art Association (dating from their trip to Europe in the mid-1930s), a name tag for Smith of unknown origin, and 3 photocopied reproductions of artwork by Smith.
Series consists of Dehner's personal and professional correspondence, comprised of mostly incoming letters but also some early drafts or copies of outgoing letters in addition to some enclosures such as loan agreements, shipping receipts, manuscripts, and printed material. Correspondents include museums, galleries, art dealers, curators, scholars, students, artists, writers, friends, and relatives. Correspondence largely documents Dehner's various personal and professional relationships, her efforts to promote and exhibit her artwork and to facilitate art historical research (on David Smith, herself, and other artists), and her various creative activities.
Personal correspondents include David Smith, Smith's sister, Catherine, and his mother, Golda; Smith's second wife, Jean Smith Pond, and his two daughters, Rebecca and Candida; Dehner's second husband, Ferdinand Mann and stepdaughter, Abby (Mann) Thernstrom; friends and fellow artists, Edgar and Lucille Corcos Levy, Herman Cherry, and Louise Nevelson; and her heart surgeon, Elliott Hurwitt, among others. Dehner often established friendships with individuals who started out corresponding on a professional basis (such as curators, dealers, and students), so personal correspondence can often be found interspersed with professional correspondence.
Professional correspondence typically relates to the loan, exhibition, and sale of Dehner's work and the Smith work that Dehner owned. Notable exhibitions documented include the 1950s traveling show of her watercolors and drawings, and group and solo shows including at the Philadelphia Art Alliance, Storm King Art Center, and Zimmerli Art Museum at Rutgers University. Also documented are Dehner's dealings with Mildred Constantine and Marian Willard (of the Willard Gallery), among others. Correspondence with curators, scholars, and students relates to research inquiries primarily about Smith, but also about Dehner herself and other artists of her era, such as John Graham, Irene Rice Pereira, and Louise Nevelson. Professional correspondence also concerns the editing and publication of the foreword she wrote for the re-issue of John Graham's System and Dialectics of Art, and the publication of her poems in the journal Tracks; certain matters pertaining to David Smith's estate, such as the disposition of some items belonging to Dehner and the controversial alteration of the painted surfaces of certain Smith sculptures carried out by executor Clement Greenberg; donations of art works to various institutions, including Dehner's effort to raise funds from Jan Matulka's former students to purchase and donate one of his paintings to the Guggenheim Museum; and the donation of her papers to the Archives of American Art, and subsequent permissions to access and publish from them.
Includes Fried Gallery which represented Dehenr in the early 1950s before Willard Gallery
Documents Dehner's foreword for Graham's book System and Dialectics of Art
Includes documentation of Dehner's article about John Graham
Documents Dehner's attempts to retrieve a sculpture David Smith made for her.
Relates to Jan Matulka's estate
Marter later became head of Dehner Foundation
Dehner assisted McClintic on a catalog of David Smith's work for the Hirshhorn Museum
Pond was David Smith's second wife
Includes transcript of an interview Sadwith conducted with Dehner
Catherine Smith was David Smith's sister
Includes letter relating to Clement Greenberg's handling of David Smith's estate.
Letters are primarily typed transcripts
Includes preparatory sketches for artwork
Documents exhibition of the National Sculpture Conference "Works by Women"
Relates to Dehner's commission for this unrealized project.
Fund of artist contributions raised to place a painting by Matulka in a New York museum.
Includes Catherine Smith's letter to Clement Greenberg referenced in Box 2, Folder 49
Gallery represented Dehner in the 1950s-1970s
Documents exhibition Dorothy Dehner and David Smith: Their Decade of Search and Fulfillment
Series consists of sound recordings of three interviews with Dehner by Herman Cherry, Judith McCandless, and ---- Rapp, and an interview conducted for a documentary on David Smith. Also found here is a list of people who interviewed Dehner, and the transcript of an interview with K--- Osis.
Series consists of the writings by Dorothy Dehner, including articles, poems, lectures and speeches, and other pieces. Writings document some of the influences on Dehner's art, some of her ideas about art in general and certain works in particular, and some of her other creative and more scholarly endeavors. Writings by others include instances of the scholarly interpretation of her work by others.
Series includes various drafts, proofs, and reprints relating to Dehner's essay on John Graham, which was initially written as a foreword to Graham's Systems and Dialectics of Art re-issued by Johns Hopkins Press in 1971, but was first published as an article in the art journal, Leonardo in 1968; note that related material can be found in Series 2: Correspondence. Also found is material related to Dehner's essay on David Smith's work, "Medals for Dishonor," which was published as an article in Art Journal in 1977. Records consist of correspondence (mostly copies), including a copy of a David Smith letter with his suggested text to accompany the work, printed material, and drafts of Dehner's article. A draft of a memoir of Dehner's first meeting with Smith written for Art in America can also be found here.
Dehner's other writings on art include notes and copies of various speeches and lectures given at the Artists Club, the Cummer Gallery of Art, and elsewhere; various statements on art, including remarks on the Menorah, a plan of work, and a short piece on the series of paintings, Life on the Farm; and contributions to catalogs for others, including ones for Joel Levy and Joan Paul. Dehner's poems include one she wrote in high school, manuscripts of two that were published in the journal, Tracks, and poems she wrote for her stepdaughter and granddaughter. Other writings include notes taken during a stay in the hospital in 1933, and later reflective and memoir pieces such as were written for her granddaughter, upon the death of Marian Willard, and on other occasions.
Student work includes papers dating from Dehner's time at Skidmore College in 1951-1952, including an essay on eighteen artists and the Metropolitan Art Museum, and notes from a class she took on Oriental Cultures.
Draft for Art in America
Writings by others comprise manuscripts for essays on Dehner which appeared in catalogs accompanying exhibitions of her work at Rutgers University in 1984 ("Dorothy Dehner: Life and Work" by Judith McCandless) and Baruch College in 1991 ("Dorothy Dehner" by Joan Marter). Also found here are poems by Herman Cherry and a copy of a speech, "The Origins of Sculpture" given by David Smith in 1953.
Series consists of papers relating to various art and personal business matters and to certain financial matters. Some material is organized loosely into gallery and organization files, which may contain records of consignments, loans, sales, and exhibitions including ones at the Philadelphia Art Alliance in 1962, Editions Alecto, Ltd. in 1964, and the Parsons-Dreyfuss Gallery in 1979. The series also includes a file for Willard Gallery which represented Dehner from the mid-1950s to the 1970s, and a file related to the Committee for the American Participation in the Triennale.
Material relating to more general art business consists of numerous handwritten and typed lists (of works, art sales, prices, exhibitions, art books donated to Skidmore College Library, etc.); visitor books for unidentified exhibitions in 1957, 1959, 1960, and 1963; shipping and delivery receipts; and handwritten documents authenticating certain David Smith works. Material relating to personal business and financial matters includes property and school tax records for Bolton's Landing; a receipt for payment by David Smith, presumably made to Dehner as part of their separation agreement; and an agreement by Dehner to sell certain sculptures by David Smith that she owned to Samuel Dorsky.
Includes authentication by Dorothy Dehner
Series consists of printed material collected and accumulated by Dehner, including exhibition catalogs, announcements, and invitations for her solo and group shows, clippings, art catalogs, programs, and miscellaneous printed material, pertaining to her own work, the work of David Smith, and, to a limited extent, the work of others. Clippings on Smith concern his death in 1965 and posthumous alterations to the painted surfaces of some of his outdoor sculptures (at the hands or through the negligence of Clement Greenberg, one of the executors of Smith's estate), which was a source of some controversy in the art world of the mid-1970s.
Art work consists of two undated etchings. One is an abstract by Dehner, which she gave, presumably as a gift, to Garnett McCoy, former Curator of the Archives of American Art. The second etching is of portraits of artists done by one another on one etching plate. Artists include Lucille Corcos by Dehner, David Smith by Lucille Corcos, Adolph Gottlieb by Edgar Levy, Edgar Levy by Esther Gottlieb, Dorothy Dehner by Adolph Gottlieb, and Esther Gottlieb by David Smith. A cat and alligator were drawn by Edgar Levy in the middle border. The etching is 91/100 and was printed by Michael Kirk on the Charles Brand Press in the Parsons School of Design Studios and seems to have also originally belonged to Garnett McCoy.
Series consists of photographs of Dehner, her friend and mentor John Graham (taken by her in the Brooklyn apartment she shared with David Smith), and her second husband Ferdinand Mann (featured with others, including Fiorello LaGuardia, Arshile Gorky, and Henry Knight, at the opening of the W.P.A. Art Gallery), as well as photographs of Dehner works from the 1950s (assembled in an album or portfolio of "Recent Works") and some later works. Also found is an abstract photograph taken by David Smith circa 1934, one of several he created using the technique of double exposure.
Artwork authenticated on back of photo by Dorothy Dehner
Letters to Deitch from Beatrice Wood and others; photographs of Wood; a scrapbook and printed material concerning Wood; Wood's autobiography "I Shock Myself (1985)" and miscellany.
Found here is one letter to museum director Charles Nagel written by artist Beauford Delaney, dated February 16th, 1967. In this letter, Beauford Delaney thanks Charles Nagel for his kindness to artists. Delaney also mentions Madame Breeskin [Adelyn Breeskin].
Found ia a letter to Charles Nagel by Beauford Delaney dated February 16th,1967. In this letter, Beauford Delaney thanks Charles Nagel for his kindness to artists. Delaney also mentions Madame Breeskin [Adelyn Breeskin].
Details the Provincetown Art Association's role in the creation and early development of the Center.
Correspondence; biographical data; writings; photograph; exhibition catalogs and announcements; and clippings.
REEL N68-114: Correspondence, 1922-1968. 3 volumes of letters.
REEL N69-3: Correspondence with galleries; brochures and exhibition notices; lecture and teaching data; and reviews.
REEL 1927: Correspondence with Isabel Bishop, Ronald Kitaj and others; typescript of "My Testament"; catalogs; clippings; and Delevante's book of poetry and drawings, GALUMPS AND COMPANY.
REEL 3948: Biographical material; 3 letters, 1966-1968; clippings, 1961-1968; exhibition announcements and catalogs, 1955-1968; newsletters, 1961; school brochures, 1959-1964; and a photograph of a painting by Delevante, 1968.
UNMICROFILMED: Biographical data; copies of 4 letters; exhibition catalogs and announcements; newspaper clippings; 2 published books, 1963 and 1965, with verse and illustrations by Delevante; printed material; and a photograph of a painting by Delevante. Duplicates of some of this material appear on reel N/69-3.
The papers of painter Helen DeMott measure 7.9 linear feet and date from 1896-1997. DeMott's painting career from 1940-1996 is documented through her numerous sketchbooks and original artwork. Also found is biographical material, correspondence, writings and poems, scrapbooks, printed material, photographic material, audio and video recordings, and scattered material from collagist Ray Johnson.
The scattered biographical material contains official documents, DeMott's resume, circulars and receipts from the Art School of the National Academy of Design, and two obituaries. Correspondence includes letters from publishers regarding DeMott's book proposal "Geography into Landscape," correspondence with universities and scientific institutions regarding her Wave series, and personal correspondence including letters from photographer, filmmaker, and painter Rudy Burckhardt, writer Alfred Chester, painter Clifford Wright, and collagist Edith Schloss.
The bulk of the writings is DeMott's poetry, as well as some artist's statements, loose notes, a speech, travel diaries, and handwritten, typed, and edited manuscripts, including a typed manuscript of "Geography into Landscape." Writings by others include poetry by Celia Bland, Miriam Finkelstein, and Marie Ponsot. Scrapbooks document DeMott's research and artwork related to waves and includes clippings, photographs of artwork, sketches and notations, and typed notes on painting waves. Printed material includes magazine and newspaper articles about Helen DeMott and various other artists, and many articles related to water waves.
Photographic material includes black and white photographs of DeMott's artwork and personal photographs. Of interest is a 1943 photograph of a group at the Art Students League which includes Ester Rolick, Edith Schloss, Max Eastman, and Helen DeMott. Also found are slides and transparencies of artwork and slides for lectures on waves. Audiovisual Recordings include one reel-to-reel tape and five videotapes, some related to DeMott's study of waves.
There is one folder of material from collagist Ray Johnson containing scattered letters and mail art, exhibition fliers, and collages. Measuring 4.2 linear feet, the bulk of DeMott's papers are sketchbooks and original artwork spanning her artistic career. There are numerous loose sketches, notes, sketchbooks, holiday cards, watercolors, and oversized drawings in pencil, ink, and oil pastels, much of which is related to waves. Original artwork by others includes Esther Rolick and Edith Schloss.
Biographical material contains official documents, DeMott's resume, circulars and receipts from the Art School of the National Academy of Design, and two obituaries.
Oversized material housed in Box 9, Folder 1.
Oversized material from Box 1, Folder 3.
Both business and personal correspondence are found in this series. Business correspondence includes correspondence with publishers regarding DeMott's book proposal "Geography into Landscape," with universities and scientific institutions regarding the Wave series, with galleries, museums, art programs and foundations, and correspondence regarding her various committee and community activities. Much of the personal correspondence is from friends living or traveling outside of the United States; many address DeMott with familiarity and fondness, using the salutation, "Ho!" Among the correspondents are photographer, filmmaker, and painter Rudy Burckhardt, writer Alfred Chester, painter Clifford Wright, and collagist Edith Schloss. There is also a large quantity of personal postcards.
The bulk of the material found in this series is poetry written by DeMott in notebooks and on loose paper. Also found are artist's statements, loose notes, a speech, travel diaries, and handwritten, typed, and edited manuscripts, including a typed manuscript of "Geography into Landscape." Writings by others includes music scores and essays, but the bulk of the material is poetry by Celia Bland, Miriam Finkelstein, Marie Ponsot, and others.
Contains original artwork.
Scrapbooks related to DeMott's Waves series includes clippings, photographs of artwork, sketches and notations, and typed notes on painting waves. Much of the material is photocopied.
Printed material includes magazine and newspaper articles about DeMott, various other artists, and scientific articles related to water waves. Also found are clippings of images, exhibition announcements, a sign, and a poster. Many articles are photocopies.
Oversized material housed in Box 9, Folder 2.
Oversized material from Box 3, Folder 17.
Photographic material includes black and white photographs of DeMott's artwork and personal photographs. Most of the artwork photographs are taken by Rudulph (Rudy) Burckhardt and have notations on the back with dimensions, title, date of creation, and ownership information. Personal photographs are mostly snapshots of unidentified persons in New York and Italy, circa 1920s-1930s, and DeMott and others with dogs, circa 1960s-1990s. Also found are slides of artwork, slides for lectures on waves, notes on slides, and transparencies of artwork.
Oversized material housed in Box 9, Folder 3.
Oversized material housed in Box 9, Folder 4.
Oversized photographs from Box 3, Folder 23.
Oversized photograph from Box 3, Folders 24-30.
Found is one sound tape reel (1/4 in. tape) of a music recording and two video recordings on five videoreels (1/2 in. tape), including "Chorda," a dance performance, and multiple copies of DeMott's "Wave Notes."
Original videoreel and three duplicate videoreels.
Found is one folder of scattered letters, mail art, exhibition fliers, and collages by collagist Ray Johnson.
The bulk of the material found are sketchbooks from 1941-1996 and DeMott's original artwork related to water waves. The sketchbooks primarily contain pencil and ink drawings; many also include notes on and sketches of waves. Also found are numerous loose sketches and notes, holiday cards, watercolors, and oversized drawings in pencil, ink, and oil pastels. Original artwork by others include Esther Rolick and Edith Schloss.
Oversized material housed in Box 9, Folders 6-9 and OV 13.
Oversized material housed in Box 9, Folders 10-11.
Oversized material housed in Box 9, Folder 12.
Oversized material housed in Box 9, Folder 13.
Oversized material housed in Box 9, Folder 14, and OV 13.
Oversized material housed in OV 13.
Oversized material housed in Box 9, Folder 15, and OV 10-12.
Oversized material from Box 4, Folders 12-14.
Oversized material from Box 4, Folder 15.
Oversized material from Box 4, Folder 17.
Oversized material from Box 4, Folder 19.
Oversized material from Box 5, Folder 1.
Oversized material from Box 8, Folders 1-3.
Oversized material from Box 4, Folders 12-14.
Oversized material from Box 5, Folder 1.
Oversized material from Box 7, Folder 10.
Postcards and letters from Helen W. Henderson, Robert and Beatrice Locher, Arnold Ronnebeck, Charles and Katharine Sheeler, Florine Stettheimer, Susan Watts Street, William Carlos Williams, Marsden Hartley, Henry McBride, Georgia O'Keeffe and others; postcards and letters to his mother Agusta Demuth, from Charles while in Paris, 1921; photos of Demuth and others; photographs of Demuth's childhood sketchbook containing 27 drawings of flowers, birds, insects, and animals; 3 photos of landscapes in oil; and a pamphlet by Henry C. Demuth tracing the history of Demuth Tobacco Shop, Lancaster, Pennsylvania.
Included are photographs of: Dorothy Dehner, Willem De Kooning, Edwin Dickinson, Red Grooms,Chaim Gross, Rafael Montanez Ortiz, George Segal, Moses Soyer, Raphael and Rebecca Soyer.
Letter to Lillian (?), the librarian of the Detroit Institute of Arts, regarding some Devonshire she has sent him.
Biographical material, correspondence, writings, photographs, artwork and printed material relating to the career of painter Garabed Der Hohannesian.
Biographical material consists of three Massachusetts School of Art yearbooks. Correspondence is with museums and professional organizations and relates to exhibitions of Der Hohannesian's work. Writings include five notebooks containing ruminations on art and philosophy. Photographs and slides are of Der Hohannesian, his work and studio and a dedication ceremony at the Rhode Island School of Design. Artwork includes one sketchbook. Printed material consists of exhibition catalogs, announcements and clippings relating to Der Hohannesian's career.
52 photographs of Derujinsky's sculpture, many of his bust of Franklin D. Roosevelt and two of Derujinsky at work. Also included are clippings and awards.
An interview with Lillian Desow-Fishbein conducted 1984 Aug. 8 by Blossom Levin. Desow-Fishbein speaks of her childhood in Detroit; her early studies in fashion design; attending Cranbrook Academy of Art; Judaic themes in her early work; moving to Chicago; how Chicago has influenced her and her work; teaching and her philosophies of education; galleries she has been affiliated with; her charitable and philanthropic activities; influences on her work; and her concerns about the survival of Judaism.
The Mount Rushmore monument photographic transparencies measure 0.4 linear feet and date from circa 1938 to 1939. The color transparencies depict the construction of the presidential portraits atop Mount Rushmore. Several show the sculptor, Gutzon Borglum, and others at work on the project.
The Ektachrome color transparencies depict the construction of the presidential portraits atop Mount Rushmore. Several show the sculptor, Gutzon Borglum, and others at work on busts of Abraham Lincoln and Theodore Roosevelt.
Images depict the construction of Abraham Lincoln and Theodore Roosevelt, as well as panoramic shots of Mount Rushmore.
An unpublished typescript analyzing the phenomenon of modern art, especially in the U.S., as it has affected the artist, the public, and the art world in general. Devree dwells particularly on what he sees as a lack of understanding and cooperation between these groups.
The papers of New York art dealer, writer and teacher, Martin Diamond measure 3.2 linear feet and date from 1928 to 2013. The materials involve to a limited degree Diamond's wife, Harriette Diamond, co-owner and co-operator of Martin Diamond Fine Arts, Inc. Their gallery work and relationships with artists they represented are documented by writings, subject and artist files, and photographic materials. Subject files concern American abstract art, particularly the 20th century Transcendental abstract painters, and include printed materials, correspondence and photographic materials. Artists' files include similar materials and some writings by artists. Photographic materials are of artworks and exhibition installations.
Who Were They? My Personal Contact with Thirty-Five American Modernists Your Art History Course Never Mentioned by Martin Diamond is a 61 page text, discussing how Diamond encountered many of the artists he represented and details of their lives and work.
The subject files concern American abstract art and Martin Diamond's activities to educate and promote this work, particularly that of the Transcendental painters. The materials include exhibition announcements and catalogs, clippings, business records and loan agreements regarding exhibitions. There also are letters from museums relating to Diamond's participation as a lecturer in connection with exhibitions. Museums involved include the National Museum of American Art of the Smithsonian Institution, The Albuquerque Museum, the Art Gallery of Toronto, and the Boca Museum of Art in Florida as well as some New York area museums. Of particular interest is Diamond's writing explaining his relationship with Phillip Frost, who donated much of his abstract art collection to the National Museum of American Art.
Found within artists' files are photographs, transparencies and slides of artworks, exhibition announcements and catalogs, along with business and legal records of the Martin Diamond Fine Arts, Inc. There also is business correspondence with artists, museums, universities, and some greeting cards or personal letters. There is scattered biographical information about the artists as well as writings by artists, Hans Hofmann, Blanche Lazzell, Hananiah Harari and Carl Holty.
Photographic materials include snapshots, negatives, transparencies, and slides of representational and abstract artwork by Blanche Lazzell, many of which note titles and dates. The materials by miscellaneous artists consist of snapshots and transparencies of artworks by G.L.K. Morris, Irene Rice-Periera, Jay Van Everen, Jan Matulka, Jean Xceron, Abstract American Artists, and some unnamed works. There are slides of artworks by Emil Bisttram, Werner Drewes, John Ferren, James Guy, Carl Holty, Raymond Johnson, Blanche Lazzell, Transcendental Painting Group and Vaclav Vytlacil. The greatest numbers of slides are of works by Werner Drewes and Vaclav Vytacil, followed by works by Blanche Lazzell and James Guy.
The papers of painter Edwin Walter Dickinson (1891-1978) measure 20.2 linear feet and date from 1909-1971. Included are photographs of works of art and personal photographs, object files, correspondence, a biographical account, and printed material.
Papers concerning the Coronado Cuarto Centennial Art Exhibition held at the Coronado Art Gallery, Albuquerque, New Mexico, 1940, including an unpublished exhibition catalog; 19 photographs of the installation; and an article, "Coronado Cuarto Centennial," by Roland F. Dickey from CENTURY, Albuquerque, September 21, 1983.
Tina Dickey research material regarding Hans Hofmann measures 5.4 linear feet and dates from circa 1980-2005. Included are writings, correspondence, book project ideas, photographs, VHS tapes and DVDs.
Correspondence (5 items), including a letter from Walt Kuhn to Homer Saint-Gaudens recommending di Gioia and his work; drawings; photographs of di Gioia and his paintings; reproductions of his work; exhibition catalogues, announcements, and clippings; and biographical data.
The papers of Dominic Di Mare measure 3.2 linear feet and date from 1950 to 2003. The collection provides an overview of Di Mare's career as a fiber artist through biographical information, correspondence, writings, printed material, artwork, and photographs. Of particular interest is the material concerning Di Mare's 1998 retrospective exhibition, including correspondence, a guest book, writings, publications, and photographs.
Biographical material includes award certificates from the American Craft Council and an extensive professional resumé. The correspondence series includes personal and professional correspondence as well as three folders of incoming and outgoing correspondence with the Susan Cummins Gallery, revealing the relationship that Di Mare had with the gallery during the 1990s. Writings include those by Di Mare and others. Of note are numerous artist statements and an illustrated journal from 1971. The printed material provides researchers with press clippings, exhibition catalogs, announcements, and published material on Di Mare, as well as other printed material on topics that Di Mare found of interest, including craft in education and the art of his colleagues. The artwork series includes many drawings, the highlight being a sketchbook of color drawings and diagrams spanning a thirty year period. The extensive collection of photographs include many portraits of Di Mare, photos of exhibitions, and numerous photos and slides of his artwork.
An unprocessed small addition of 0.4 linear feet consists of correspondence with colleagues, arts organizations, galleries, and museums regarding exhibitions and publications; photographs of De Mare at work and of works of art, including two flash drives containing images of works of art; exhibition catalogs and announcements; and one schematic drawing of an unidentified work by De Mare, 1990.
This series includes two certificates for American Craft Council awards, an exhibition guest book, and Di Mare's extensive resume which includes a listing of the locations of his artwork.
Correspondence consists of both personal and professional correspondence. Personal letters are from friends, colleagues, and admirers. General business correspondence includes letters to Di Mare from art galleries and organizations, primarily concerning exhibitions. Susan Cummins Gallery materials consist of professional correspondence gathered while the gallery represented Di Mare's artwork. This includes letters to Dominic Di Mare or the Susan Cummins Gallery concerning invitations to exhibit and the loan or sale of his artwork, as well as letters in reply from Susan Cummins Gallery, and letters from Di Mare to the Gallery. The file concerning "Dominic Di Mare: A Retrospective," contains correspondence between Di Mare and the Palo Alto Cultural Center in arranging the exhibition, as well as letters and cards of congratulations from friends and colleagues. All correspondence is arranged chronologically.
This series contains writings by Di Mare, including several drafts of artist statements, and other miscellaneous drafts of essays and articles. Also found is an illustrated journal that Di Mare kept during Project Francisco, a week-long school trip to the Sierra Mountains. Also included are essays by Jeremy Adamson, Signe Mayfield, and W. S. Di Piero for the Di Mare Retrospective catalog, as well as drafts of reviews of Di Mare exhibitions by Ruth Spencer and Betty Park, and a term paper on Di Mare written by Suzanne Bonné. Items are arranged chronologically with Di Mare writings first, followed by the writings of others.
This series contains printed material and publications which mention Dominic Di Mare and his artwork, as well as other materials on the arts. Included are exhibition announcements and catalogs for Di Mare exhibitions. Files of press clippings contain articles on Di Mare with reviews of his artwork, reviews of the book Art Fabric: Mainstream [Mildred Constantine and Jack Lenor Larsen; New York: Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1981], and other miscellaneous articles on art that Di Mare found interesting. The series contains published seminar proceedings, a book presenting a study on crafts in education, and art publications which mention Di Mare and show his work. Also found is a small unbound scrapbook that the Susan Cummins Gallery kept of Di Mare press clippings. This series is arranged alphabetically by type of material.
This series contains one large sheet of life drawing sketches, a drawn plan for two series of works, and a sketchbook of notes and drawings that Di Mare used throughout his career. Items are arranged chronologically.
This series includes photographs of Dominic Di Mare throughout his career, including photos of him in his studio, working with students, and at exhibitions. Also found are numerous photographs of his artwork and scanned images used for a Susan Cummins Gallery catalog. Also included in this series are negatives and slides. Slides of artwork are kept in the exact order created by Di Mare, arranged in two parts, following his labeling system. Items within folders are arranged chronologically.
Unprocessed addition consisting of correspondence with colleagues, arts organizations, galleries, and museums regarding exhibitions and publications; photographs of De Mare at work and of works of art, including two flash drives containing images of works of art; exhibition catalogs and announcements; and one schematic drawing of an unidentified work by De Mare, 1990.
Two handwritten letters from Seaman to Dimon and one typewritten copy of a letter from Dimon to Seaman. They discuss the demise of the Anderson Galleries and the founding of the Parke-Bernet Galleries in its place.
The collection measures 2.7 linear feet, dates from 1919 to 1990, and includes letters, photographs, financial records, printed material, and family memorabilia. The papers of Dionisio primarily document his relationships with other family members and friends through photographs and letters received from his mother, Zaida Ortega Dominguez, and others. The collection also contains papers, photographs and original sketches (by Dominguez) collected by Dominguez herself which were in Dionisio's care. Papers relating specifically to Dionisio's work as an artist are represented to a lesser degree in this collection and consist primarily of printed material and photographs of Dionisio at work and at an exhibition of his work. There is also one original watercolor by Dionisio from 1985.
The bulk of this series consists of letters and photographs. Letters are primarily from Dionisio's mother, Zaida Ortega Dominguez, and are generally in Spanish.
The biographical material found in this subseries consists primarily of the contents of two wallets, including photographs of Dionisio and family members and identification cards. The subseries also contains diplomas and awards, a resumé, and financial and medical records.
See also OV 7.
In addition to letters from Dionisio's mother, this subseries also contains letters from his grandmother, Nelia Dominguez Saavedra, and his cousin, dancer Zoraida Rodriguez, which were written between Dionisio's departure from Cuba in 1980 and his death in 1987. The letters frequently mention social and political events in Cuba and the envelopes are often decorated with colorful pictures of Cuban writers and political heroes, as well as fauna and flora of the island. Several letters include clippings from Cuban newspapers regarding art exhibitions and films. Letters from Zoraida Rodriguez include clippings and programs of the "Ballet de Camaguey" in which she was one of the principal dancers. Also found here are letters from Zaida Ortega Dominguez addressed to other family members living in Miami. Three letters from Dominguez to Dionisio, dated 1987, were received unopened.
This subseries contains routine business and legal records.
This subseries contains guest and price lists for several exhibitions of Dionisio's work, including a 1990 retrospective exhibition at the InterAmerican Art Gallery. Handwritten notes, and lists of names and addresses can also be found here.
This series contains several poems in addition to an essay by Giulio V. Blanc about Dionisio.
Found here are clippings about Dionisio and other artists, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and handwritten and printed versions of a eulogy written for Dionisio by Carlos Alfonzo.
In addition to loose photographs of Dionisio with family and friends, this subseries contains two photograph albums of snapshots of Dionisio with family and friends, in addition to photographs of Dionisio at work, and at an exhibition of his work.
This subseries consists of a small amount of material kept by Michael Ford, a friend of Dionisio, including correspondence, photocopies of artwork, an original watercolor by Dioniso, and printed material.
Papers of Dioniso's mother primarily consist of photographs of family and friends in addition to family memorabilia, artwork by Dominguez, letters, and printed material. Certain items relate to Dionisio's brother, Ricardo Padron Ortega, and his father, Humberto Ysidro Padron Fernández.
Found here are family records such as birth and marriage certificates and baby memorabilia.
Found here are poems, greeting and sympathy cards, notes, and a clipping.
This subseries forms the bulk of the series and contains photographs of family and friends including Dionisio as an infant and throughout his life.
This subseries consists of a group of original sketches and drawings by Dominguez, primarily of Hollywood personalities.
The collection measures 6.8 linear feet and 0.263 GB, dates from 1934 to 2005, and documents the career of sculptor Mark di Suvero and the importance of his family relationships. Found within the papers are biographical material; letters to and from di Suvero family members; scattered writings by di Suvero and Marie Louise Martignoni di Suvero, the artist's sister, about Mark di Suvero; drawings; a file on the Socrates Sculpture Park; a file on artist Helen Lessick, a friend of Mark di Suvero; exhibition files; printed material; photographs of the artist, artwork, and members of the di Suvero family; audio and video recordings of interviews with di Suvero; and promotional Tee Shirts.
There is an unprocessed addition to this collection donated in 2022 that includes a WordPerfect transcript in electronic format of an unpublished play Crescent Moon, Yellow Star, but Henry (Hank) di Suvero, 2004.
This series consists of biographical accounts for various members of the di Suvero family and school records for Mark di Suvero. The curricula vitae were written by Mark di Suvero.
Letters are primarily from family members, friends, and colleagues.
This series primarily consists of Marie Louise Martignoni di Suvero's notes and writings. The files containing notes for her lecture at the University of New Mexico include 2 photographs and 80 slides of Mark di Suvero's art work. There are also writings by Mark, Henry, and Victor di Suvero.
Three small ink sketches by Mark di Suvero are designs for sculpture.
This series contains material concerning the Socrates Sculpture Park, an outdoor space where sculptors are invited to create and exhibit their work, created through the Athena Foundation. The photographs include one showing New York Mayor Koch presenting co-founder Enrico Martignoni with an award for the Park. Artifacts include two matchbooks and a tee shirt advertising the Park.
This series contains miscellaneous material relating to artist Helen Lessick, an Athena grant-funded artist and friend of Mark di Suvero and the Martignoni family, who exhibited her work at the Socrates Sculpture Park in its early days, and at Chalon-sur-Saône's La Vie des Formes.
The exhibition files contain miscellaneous material relating to specific exhibitions or installations by Mark di Suvero. Most files contain printed materials, catalogs, announcements, notes, a few essays, letters, and photographs. Two of the exhibition files also contain video recordings: La Biennale di Venezia, XLCI International Art Exhibition, Venice, Italy, 1994-1996; Storm King Art Center, Mountainville, New York, 1995-1996.
This series consists of printed material that does not directly relate to specific exhibitions. Exhibition announcements include a poster for di Suvero's first solo exhibition at the Green Gallery in 1960. Exhibition catalogs for The Hands, 1996-1997, and for the Orange County Museum of Art solo exhibition, 1998, are autographed.
Photographs are of Mark di Suvero, members of the di Suvero family, di Suvero's studios and art work. Many of the photographs depict a combination of all these elements, so they have been organized into one chronology in order to maintain the sense of each occasion. The slides, found here also in digital format, of di Suvero's work belonged to friend and dealer Richard Bellamy.
This series presents aural and visual insights into Mark di Suvero's work. With the exception of La Vie des Formes, all videotapes contain interviews of Mark di Suvero.
These Tee Shirts are promotional items from an unveiling event for Mark di Suvero's sculpture Potowatami, and from a charity event.
The papers of Ivan Dmitri, a.k.a. Levon West, include biographical material, correspondence, writings, financial records, art works, printed material and photographs relating to his career as a photographer and printmaker.
Certificates, permits, identification card and passports, 1918-1959; correspondence; a journal, 1943-1944; writings by Ivan Dmitri (aka Levon West) and others; a transcript of a tape recording made at Dmitri's studio, 1961; notes, undated and 1924-1963; business records, 1920-1960, including a ledger, a sales book, contracts, purchase orders, receipts from Kennedy & Co., Engravers, stock market records, and cancelled checks; 35 drawings; 28 prints by Dmitri and others; a story board section from Walt Disney's "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs", 1937; 5 scrapbooks of clippings; 4 scrapbooks of printed material; press releases, ca. 1943-1965; 4 annual reports from various companies, 1957-1961; "Etchings and Dry Points," and "Making an Etching" by Levon West; "Flight to Everywhere," "Color in Photography," and "Kodachrome and How to Use It" by Ivan Dmitri; 4 books about Dmitri by various authors; 3 books about art-related topics; printed material; and photographs and slides of Dmitri, his family, friends, and places related to his work, including 3 color photos of Diego Rivera in his studio by Dmitri, circa 1956 (2 are copies of the same photo).
840 original photographs, by various photographers, included in the five "Photography in the Fine Arts" travelling exhibits, organized and directed Dmitri, 1959-1967.
The papers of New York City painter, educator, gallery owner, and activist Lois Dodd date from 1945 to 2013 and measure 6.82 linear feet. The papers focus on Dodd's personal work and contain little documentation of her involvement with Tanager Gallery. Found are biographical materials, including an interview conducted by Pat Mainardi in 1973; personal business records; professional correspondence; project and teaching files for Artist Housing Projects and various teaching positions; scattered writings and notes; printed materials including exhibition catalogs and announcements; and photographs.
The 2014 and 2015 additions date from 1945-2013 and provide additional material related to Dodd's career as a painter and educator. Found here are biographical material; correspondence with friends and artists; writings by others; project and teaching files; personal business records; printed material; photographical material of artwork and Dodd; eleven travel sketchbooks; and a few pieces of artwork by George Schneeman.
Notable correspondents in the collection include Charles Cajori, Dave and Kathy Dewey, Lucien Day, Rackstraw Downes, William King, James L. Lentz, James McGarrell, Zalmar Perlin, Sidney Simon, Paul Smith, and Tom Wesselmann.
Found are records concerning awards, memberships, and certificates; biographical sketches and resumes; and personal materials including a driver's license from Maine, travel papers concerning Dodd's trip to Italy, and a transcript of a 1973 interview of Dodd by Pat Mainardi.
(includes ribbon)
Found are Lois Dodd's loan and exhibition agreements, contracts, donation records, gallery plans, lists, purchase orders, receipts, sales records, and shipping records. Also found is a file of correspondence and agreements for the publishing of Dodd's print Laundry.
Found are incoming and drafts of outgoing correspondence, the majority of which focuses on Dodd's painting career. Some personal correspondence may also be found. Notable correspondents include Lucien Day, Rackstraw Downes, James McGarrell, James Lentz, and Sidney Simon. Invitations to serve as art juror and to exhibit are found at the end of the series. Correspondence is also found in the project and teaching files.
Project files concern Dodd's work with the five Artist Housing Projects, including the Cooper Square Renewal and one file concerning a mural at Citibank. Files contain correspondence, publicity materials, clippings, and drafts of writings. Teaching files include materials from Dodd's positions at Brooklyn College, City University of New York, the Cleveland Institute of Art, Colby College, Louisiana State University, the Skowhegan School of Painting, and the Vermont Studio School, and may include correspondence and financial materials.
Scattered writings include a statement of plans by Dodd and a draft of a speech by Joe Fiori.
Printed materials include invitations, announcements, and catalogs for exhibitions of Dodd's work, including solo and group shows, as well as exhibitions of other artists. Also found are clippings, flyers, newsletters, and press releases. Of note are two publications featuring articles about and an interview with Dodd.
(Includes a blueprint of a ship and a pamphlet)
(Includes article on Lois Dodd by Laurie Hurwitz)
(Interviews with Bernadette Mayer and Lois Dodd)
There are personal snapshots and professional portraits of Lois Dodd and of Dodd with Bill and Eli King, Ann Arnold, Lee Bontecon, Angelo Ippolito, and others. Also found are photos of Dodd with her artwork and in her studio, and of works of art by Dodd and others.
(Includes potraits in her studio)
(Includes potraits in her studio with works of art. Photos by Bob Brooks)
The 2014 and 2015 additions date from 1945-2013 and provide additional material related to Dodd's career as a painter and educator. Found here are biographical material; correspondence with friends and artists; writings by others; project and teaching files; personal business records; printed material; photographical material of artwork and Dodd; eleven travel sketchbooks; and a few pieces of artwork by George Schneeman.
Biographical material dates from 1949-2004 and is a certificate Dodd was awarded in weaving, an interview transcript, one notebook relating to a trip to Nova Scotia, and a resume.
Correspondence dates from 1949-2000s and is primarily letters written to Dodd, both personal and professional in nature. Occasional drafts of Dodd's replies are also found here. Notable correspondents include Charles Cajori, Dave and Kathy Dewey, Lucien Day, William King, Zalmar Perlin, Paul Smith, and Tom Wesselmann. Personal letters are from friends and family and include holiday and greeting cards, postcards, and some photographs. Professional letters are from museums, galleries, and other arts organizations and institutions, including some relating to Tanager gallery. Mixed in are personal business records including loan agreements, shipping receipts, and payments records. Other professional letters relate to Dodd's environmental activism and housing advocacy for artists. Printed materials including exhibition announcements, newsletters, and flyers are found dispersed through the subseries.
Writings by others date from 1974-1980s and are artist statements by George Sugarman, Al Held, and Edith Schloss. Also found here is one student paper.
Project and teaching files date from 1965-2002 and relate to the Cooper Square housing renewal project, exhibitions Dodd curated and participated in, National Academy activities, and teaching appointments. Exhibitions include three that Dodd held in her Blairstown, New Jersey home (304 High Street). Items found here are price lists, press releases, notes, printed material, and correspondence. National Academy files reflect Dodd's service as council member, and are reports, minutes, memos, mailings lists, and printed material. Teaching files are from appointments at Queens College and Brooklyn College and include correspondence, memos, class schedules, handouts, curriculum vitae, and grant applications for exhibitions on campus.
Personal business records date from 1966-2000s and are sales receipts, price lists, and correspondence with several galleries that represented Dodd over the years. Some printed material and photographic prints of artwork are found here as well.
Printed material dates from 1945-2012 and documents Dodd's life and career and the careers of her friends. Found here are announcements, brochures, clippings, exhibition catalogs, newsletters, periodicals, and various other printed material. The issue of ARTnews features an interview with Dodd. The other periodical is an issue of the magazine of Museum: A Project of Living Artists. A few files of printed material are arranged by subject, primarily by artist name.
Photographic material dates from 1950s-2000s and is of artwork, Dodd, friends, family, and a few exhibition views. Dodd's artwork is captured on slides. All other material is black and white and color photographic prints. Found here are many shots of Dodd throughout her life, many of her painting in her studio.
Eleven sketchbooks date from 1986-1998 and were used by Dodd on various trip to sketch landscapes and architecture. Media used include pencil, pen, and watercolor. Many sketches are labeled with the date and name of site.
The artworks in this series are four prints by the artist George Schneeman, which were incorporated into a calendar for the years 1981-1984.
The papers of Detroit-based architect John M. Donaldson measures 0.11 linear feet and consists of 31 items that date from 1873 to 1938. The papers include a letter from Frank Duveneck, 1877; a sketch of Donaldson, ca. 1876, by [James] Carroll Beckwith, alongside a note from Beckwith, 1913; letters from Gari Melchers, some of which are illustrated; obituary clippings on Melchers; photographs in the form of carte de visites, mostly of fellow art students in Munich, 1873-1877, including Francis Davis Millet and Frank Duveneck; and miscellany. Also included are several letters from Gari Melchers's wife Corrine to Donaldson's son, Bruce.
Letters, mostly regarding the divorce between Peggy Bacon and Alexander Brook including a carbon copy of a letter from Bacon's attorney Eddie Greenbaum to Bacon, July 3 [no year]; carbon copy of a letter to Alexander Brook from Greenbaum, June 29, 1940; and a letter from Greenbaum to Chris (Charles Cary Colt), July 5 [1940], enclosing a letter from Alexander Brook to Peggy about their divorce, June 24, 1940. There is also a letter from Peggy Bacon to Amy [Colt], in which Bacon describes her life in Cape Porpoise, Maine, February 2, 1967.
The Dorothy Weiss Gallery records measure 18.7 linear feet and date from circa 1964 to 2001 (bulk 1984-2000). Although the collection includes limited records overlapping from Weiss's dealings with some artists through Meyer Breier Weiss Contemporary Crafts, Inc., its primary focus is the activities of the Dorothy Weiss Gallery. The records provide fairly extensive coverage of the gallery's relationship with approximately thirty artists, and scattered documentation of Weiss's relationship with more than two hundred other artists whose work she represented, exhibited, or had an interest in at some time during the gallery's existence. Overall, the collection is an excellent source of information on contemporary ceramic and glass sculpture and includes artist files of correspondence, administrative records, printed matter, and photographic material, as well as exhibition files and subject files.
The bulk of the collection consists of Series 1: Artist Files, which includes correspondence with artists, biographical material, printed material relating to exhibitions at the Dorothy Weiss Gallery and elsewhere, photographs of artwork, and administrative records such as price lists, inventories, and loan and consignment documentation.
Series 2: Exhibition Files contains records of approximately twenty-five group exhibitions held at the gallery, such as the Teapot Invitationals, and various exhibitions of glass artists. Records relating to exhibitions for a single artist's work can be found in Series 1: Artist Files.
Series 3: Subject Files consists of a small group of general subject files maintained by the gallery, such as correspondence with different types of clients, and records relating to specific projects outside the gallery in which Weiss participated.
This series contains files for artists represented by the gallery, or featured in the gallery's exhibitions. There are also files for artists in whom Weiss had an interest but with whom she never pursued a business relationship. While some artists are represented by only a single file, others are represented more fully. The latter include Hank Murta Adams, Rudy Autio, Annette Corcoran, Philip Cornelius, Wouter Dam, Ruth Duckworth, Jack Earl, Tony Hepburn, Jun Kaneko, Michael Lucero, Beverly Mayeri, William Morris, Jay Musler, Barbara Bell Smith, Statom Therman, Yoshio Taylor, Robert Turner, Jamie Walker, and Stan Welsh.
Files typically include any or all of the following: announcements and press releases for exhibitions held at the gallery; correspondence with artists, buyers, collectors, museums and art institutions; biographical material such as résumés and artist statements; consignment, loan and shipping records; inventories and price lists; printed material; photographs of artists; and photographs of artwork.
Correspondence generally includes original incoming letters and drafts or copies of outgoing letters. To preserve the original order of the collection, records relating to a particular artist were broken down according to the system imposed by the creator. Consequently, files labeled "correspondence" may also include material such as price lists, inventories, consignment and loan records, invoices, and shipping records.
Photographic material generally consists of images of artwork and may also contain images of gallery installations or photographs of work in an artist's studio. Photographs of artists are filed separately and/or noted in the container list.
Additional slide transparencies of artwork by many of the artists represented here can be found at the end of the series. These were separated from the artist files in which they were originally housed for storage reasons. Researchers should check the list of transparencies for additional information about any artist of interest. "SB" next to the box number indicates the slide box in which particular slide transparencies are housed.
Includes photograph of Furman.
Oversized poster housed in OV 21.
Includes piece of handmade paper signed by Hughto.
Includes slide transparency, possibly of Hunt; oversized material housed in OV 21.
Includes samples of Auric Grid Hanging and Auric Grid Hanging Two; oversized material housed in OV 21.
Oversized material housed in OV 21.
See also Bartneck, Lea.
One slide transparency.
Includes 2 postcards illustrated by Podmore.
One slide transparency.
Photograph of the artist working on Martin Luther King, Jr., sculpture.
Includes card with an original print.
Oversized material housed in OV 21.
Oversized illustrated letter of drawings for Teapot Invitational housed in OV 21.
Also Ceramic Art Park, Shiga, Japan.
Includes slides of Tsutsumi.
Includes files on Tony Hepburn, William Hunt, and Kiyomi Iwata.
This series contains records of approximately twenty-five group exhibitions held at the gallery. Files typically contain announcements, press releases, correspondence with participating artists, price lists, and photographs of artwork. Researchers should note that records of other exhibitions can be found in the artist files.
For several exhibitions, such as the Alfred Show (1989), and some of the New Glass exhibitions and Teapot Invitationals, Weiss requested that participants submit black and white sketches, rather than photographs of artwork, for the exhibition announcements. She asked that the sketches "suggest the character and spirit of the work" to be included in the exhibition. Many of these original black and white drawings, with accompanying letters from the artists, can be found in this series. One oversized letter with accompanying teapot drawings by Juta Savage, is housed in Series 1: Artist Files, and can be found in OV 21.
See Appendix for a list of exhibitions at Meyer Breir Weiss Contemporary Crafts, Inc., and the Dorothy Weiss Gallery.
Includes illustrated letter from Walter Lieberman.
The subject files that comprise this series include general correspondence concerning gallery activities arranged by type of client, documentation of outgoing and returned loans, and records relating to several projects involving other institutions in which the gallery was involved. The Chicago Art Fair folder contains photographs of Dorothy Weiss Gallery installations at the Fair.
A thesis and a manuscript.
REEL 2: Doud's M.A. thesis, "John Hesselius: His Life and Work," submitted to the faculty of the University of Delaware, June 1963.
REEL 3134: A typed draft of a manuscript, "An American Portrait-Photodocumentation by the Farm Security Administration," written by Doud, 1965.
This microfilm collection of the papers of African American painter, muralist, and illustrator Aaron Douglas primarily concern Douglas' years at Fisk University, the development of the art department, and the management of the Stieglitz art collection. The collection consists of biographical material; correspondence; artwork including prints, drawings, and sketchbooks; and teaching material including drafts of lectures and teaching notes. Also included are printed material such as exhibition catalogs and clippings; reports and printed material concerning the Sigma Pi Phi fraternity; and photographs of Douglas and his works of art.
Among the correspondents are Charles Alston, Claude Clark, John Cowles, William Dawson, Jeff Donaldson, Cedric Dover, David Driskell, Mary Beattie Brady of the Harmon Foundation, John Davis Hatch, William C. Haygood of the Julius Rosenwald Fund, and Walter Pach.
Three scrapbooks, 1923-1938, containing clippings and other printed material, photographs of paintings, and memorabilia. Also included are clippings, and a photograph of Charles Franklin (Frank) Reaugh.
Lectures delivered by curator Jacob Bean, curator and collector Philip Hofer, and painter and printmaker Gabor Peterdi, as part of a series sponsored by the Drawing Society held at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City.
Correspondence, notes, art works, clippings, and photographs document the sculptural projects, primarily for churches, undertaken by Andrew Dreselly and his colleagues.
Correspondence (1927-1972), primarily letters exchanged with sculptors, architects, and other colleagues, concerning sculpture projects; two pages of writings, and 2 drawings (one annotated) concerning the ornamentation of the Governor's Palace in Williamsburg, Va.; eight pencil outlines for crucifixion figures will related reproductions; an outline and 2 rubbings depicting a memorial stone for Katherine Sullivan (1938); and several clippings (1929-1933).
Photographs include one, taken by his son David, of Dreselly (ca. 1981) and prints and ca. 1000 unprinted negatives (1900-ca. 1960) of Dreselly's work and that of his colleagues, including John Angel, Arcangelo Cascieri, Edgar Keen, Johann Kirchmayer, and Ernest Pellegrini. Among the projects are the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, St. James Cathedral, and the Riverside Baptist Church in New York City; the Governor's Palace in Williamsburg, Va.; the Washington Cathedral in Washington, D.C.; and the East Liberty Presbyterian Church in Pittsburgh, Pa.
The Jerry Dreva papers measures 1.0 linear foot and dates from circa 1963-1982. The papers include biographical information; rare printed material; scrapbooks; correspondence consisting of letters of support for the exhibition DREVA/GRONK 1968-78: Ten Years of Art/Life (Los Angeles Contemporary Exhibitions, 1978) and mail art; zines and small artist books exchanged with collaborators and friends; material documenting Dreva's relationship with performance artist, Gronk, including staged photographs, candid snapshots, correspondence, and ephemera, chronicling their shared practice, and the glam Hollywood, activist Chicana/o, and queer scenes in 1970s and 80s Los Angeles. Also included are two small labeled vinyl albums.
Correspondence consists of letters to friends and institutions for which Dreva created mail and graphic art for. Some of the indiduals include: Vittore Baroni, John Jack, The Gay Activists Alliance, Michael Scott, and Sandy Robertson. Also included are files of mail art created by Dreva or sent to him by friends and other artists.
Professional files consist of some invoices and receipts, material related to the "Dreva/Gronk 1968-1978 Ten Years of Art/Life" exhibition, work for Mohammed publication company in Italy, certificates, a vinyl record produced by Le Petite Bon-Bons, and a scrapbook.
Printed material consists of clippings, announcements and posters, editions of Mainman Newsletter, "Despair" comic book, "How I Became Rich and Famous" by Captain Zerox, and "Mail Art Show" exhibition catalog.
Photographic material consists of photographs of Dreva, photographs of Dreva and Gronk, photographs of Le Petite Bon-Bons band members and various famous rock stars, and candid shots.
Correspondence consists of letters to friends and institutions for which Dreva created mail and graphic art for. Some of the individuals include: Vittore Baroni, John Jack, The Gay Activists Alliance, Michael Scott, and Sandy Robertson. Also included are files of mail art created by Dreva or sent to him by friends and other artists.
Professional files consists of some invoices and receipts, material related to the "Dreva/Gronk 1968-1978 Ten Years of Art/Life" exhibition, work for Mohammed publication company in Italy, certificates, a vinyl record produced by Le Petite Bon-Bons, and a scrapbook.
Printed material consists of clippings, announcements and posters, editions of Mainman Newsletter, "Despair" comic book, "How I Became Rich and Famous" by Captain Zerox, and "Mail Art Show" exhibition catalog.
Photographic material consists of photographs of Dreva, photographs of Dreva and Gronk, photographs of Le Petite Bon-Bons band members and various famous rock stars, and candid shots.
Interviews with Werner Drewes conducted between 1983 Dec. 9 and 1984 Mar. 16 by Martina Norelli. Conducted for the National Museum of American Art.
The papers of painter, printmaker, designer, and teacher, Werner Drewes, measure 15.76 linear feet and date from 1838-2015, with the bulk of the material dating from the 1890s-1990s. The papers document Drewes' life and career through biographical and family material; correspondence with family members, artists, galleries, and art institutions and organizations; scattered teaching notes and writings including a diary; catalogs and inventories of artwork; three scrapbooks; printed material; 38 sketchbooks, loose sketches, and prints; and photographs of Drewes, his family, friends and colleagues, exhibitions, travels, and works of art. Also found are scattered papers of Drewes' second wife, Maria Drewes.
Biographical material documents Drewes' family history through family trees and biographical notes made by family members, and also includes 3 of Drewes' passports, some student and military records, resumés, and a partial interview transcript.
Correspondence is with family members; artists including Ed Boccia, Thomas Eldred, T. Lux Feininger, Clark Fitzgerald, Wassily Kandinsky, Jean Helion, Gerhard Marcks, Arthur Osver, Karl Schrag, and Albert Urban; and galleries and art organizations and institutions such as Richard York Gallery, the Smithsonian Institution, and others. Correspondence also relates to the Drewes estate, as well as to loans, exhibitions and sales of artwork.
Notes and writings include a diary kept by Drewes between 1918-1920 in Europe, a "love letter" in verse form written by Drewes to his first wife, Margaret, some teaching notes and notes on design, and 2 essays about Drewes written by others.
Catalogs and inventory records provide comprehensive documentation of the artwork Drewes created over the course of his career. Entries include titles, assigned numbers, subjects, dimensions, media used, and sketches or photos of artwork.
Three scrapbooks provide scattered documentation of Drewes' life and career, and include clippings from the 1920s and 1930s, and a scrapbook created by Maria Drewes for her husband's memorial service.
Printed material includes event announcements and exhibition catalogs, as well as news clippings tracing Drewes' career from the 1920s to the 1980s.
Artwork consists of greeting cards made by Drewes, as well as 38 sketchbooks and numerous loose sketches in pencil, ink, watercolor, and crayon.
Photographic material includes vintage family photographs, prints, negatives, slide transparencies, and 8 glass plate negatives, of Drewes, his family and friends, events including exhibitions and travels, and artwork.
Found in Maria Drewes' papers are correspondence, 17 diaries primarily documenting travels with Werner Drewes, two scrapbooks with designs for jewelry, and photos of family, friends and jewelry.
Included here are Drewes' 1923, 1926 and 1932 passports, his student record from the Bauhaus School of Design signed by Mies van der Rohe and Wassily Kandinsky, some military papers, resumes and biographical notes, and an incomplete transcript of an interview with Drewes.
Also found is information relating to Drewes' family history, including family trees, a coat of arms, family letters and notebooks, and a book of handwritten poetry belonging to Drewes' mother. Much of this material is in German.
OV material housed in Box 16, Folder 1
Found in this series are letters from Maria Drewes and other family members, and artists and art dealers including Josef Albers, Edward Boccia, Alexander Calder, Howard Dearstyne, Bourgoyne Diller, Katherine S. Dreier, Perle Fine, Adolph Gottlieb, Herbert Grainick, Jean Helion, Carl Holty, Wassily Kandinsky, Gerhard Marcks, Laszlo Moholy-Nagy, Hans Moller, Abraham Rattner, Richard York Gallery, Kurt Roesch, Karl Schrag, Albert Urban, and others. Some individual correspondents have named files, while others are included in the "General" files.
General correspondence and general business correspondence include correspondence with art galleries, and art institutions, including the Smithsonian Institution, and relate primarily to loans, sales, and exhibitions of artwork.
Correspondence relating to the Drewes' estate includes an appraisal report by Karen Holtzman for Drewes' artwork and correspondence between family members, including Harald and Wolfram Drewes, and inventories of artwork.
One folder relates to a 1974 exhibition in Turkey and Greece, and includes photographs and publicity material from the exhibition. A folder of correspondence labeled with a "Y" series of yellow stickers includes letters from T. Lux Feininger, Clark Fitzgerald, Karl Schrag, and Swedish artists Jan and Pia Thunholm.
Greeting cards consist of hand made cards sent to Drewes by artists including Gerhard Marcks, Karl Schrag and others.
Oversized material housed in Box 16, Folder 2
Series includes a biographical essay, a German diary, with translation, documenting Drewes' time in Europe from 1918-1920, a 1922 "love letter" to Drewes' first wife Margaret written in a bound notebook in verse form with a translation from the German, and notes on Drewes' trips to Europe from the 1960s-1980s.
General notes on design and diagrams of class problems appear to have been written by Drewes' during his tenure at Washington University.
Writings by others include two essays on Drewes.
Series contains inventory records of artwork maintained by Drewes throughout his career from the early 1900s-1980s. Catalogs document artwork by genre and may record any or all of the following: the date of execution, title and assigned number, a sketch of the artwork with descriptive notes such as subject and dimensions, and sales information where applicable. In some cases photos of artwork are affixed beside the sketch. A series of copies of some of the catalogs, compiled from the originals in the 1980s, is also included here.
Index cards, which document artwork arranged by number, contain similar information but are accompanied in many cases by photographs, and negatives, of artwork rather than sketches.
Three scrapbooks include fragments of a clippings scrapbook about Drewes from the 1920s-1930s, a scrapbook compiled for Drewes' memorial service, and a scrapbook of photos of artwork and clippings compiled by Rosamund Frost.
Announcements and catalogs are for Drewes' one-man shows as well as exhibitions and events in which Drewes participated.
Other announcements and catalogs include catalogs listing sales information for Drewes' artwork and announcements and catalogs for other artists.
Clippings are generally about Drewes and his exhibitions. Also found are 3 children's books published in Germany, one of which was a gift to Drewes as a child.
The bulk of Drewes' sketchbooks and groups of loose sketches, are dated and titled by subject or genre, and contain primarily pencil and ink sketches, with some crayon and watercolor sketches. Many are labeled with red stickers as the "R" series.
Also found are 10 folders of Drewes' prints made for holiday greeting cards. An additional folder contains cards made for Maria Drewes.
Two folders contain artwork by others, including family members.
Oversized material housed in Box 16, Folder 3
Oversized material housed in Box 16, Folder 4
Oversized material housed in Box 16, Folder 5
Oversized material housed in Box 16, Folder 6
Oversized material housed in Box 17, Folder 1
Oversized material housed in Box 17, Folder 2
Oversized material housed in Box 17, Folder 3
Oversized material housed in Box 17, Folder 4
Series includes photographs of Drewes, including studio, portrait, family, exhibition and travel photographs. Also found are many photographs, negatives, and transparencies, as well as 8 glass negatives of works of art by Drewes. Many photographs of works of art have corresponding negatives affixed to the back of the photos.
Oversized material housed in box 17, Folder 6
Oversized material housed in Box 17, Folder 7
(8 glass plate negatives housed in MGP 2)
Oversized material housed in Box 17, Folder 8
Papers provide scattered documentation of Maria Drewes' marriage to Werner Drewes and her career as a jewelry professor and desginer. Correspondence relating to her work prior to her marriage to Drewes, includes her 1957 teaching certificate and letters of reference from the City Art Museum of St. Louis, as well as family letters and diaries primarily documenting European travels during the 1960s-1980s. Also found are notes, a scrapbook and photographs of Maria Drewes' jewelry designs.
Correspondence, biographical material, and photographs documenting artist Carl Nelson's relationship with Virginia Drury and the Virginia Drury Gallery.
The bulk of the collection consists of correspondence between Drury and Nelson pertaining to the sale Carl Nelson's artwork through Virginia Drury's gallery; however, other letters are more friendly and personal in nature. Biographical material in the collection consists of Nelson's resumes. Also included are three photographs of Nelson's paintings.
The papers of painter and art critic Guy Pène Du Bois measure 2.0 linear feet and date from circa 1900 to 1963 with the bulk of the materials dating from 1920 to 1963. Found within the papers are biographical material; personal and professional correspondence, including letters from Royal Cortissoz and Edward Hopper; writings, including essays, journals, short stories, and drafts of the autobiography Artists Say the Silliest Things; personal business records; printed material; and artwork.
Biographical materials consist of certificates, a curriculum vitae, passport, and a photograph of two unidentified women.
Correspondence is primarily with Pène Du Bois' family, friends, and business associates. The series includes significant correspondence from fellow art critic Royal Cortissoz; artists Raphael Soyer and Edward Hopper; and writers Samuel Duff McCoy, Lincoln Isham, and Newton Booth Tarkington. Other correspondents of note include C.W. Kraushaar Art Galleries and Pène Du Bois' son, the children's book illustrator William Pène Du Bois.
Writings include book drafts of Pène Du Bois' autobiography, Artists Say the Silliest Things, journal entries, 35 essays, 8 short stories, and various writing fragments and notes.
Personal business records consist of account and sales records from C.W. Kraushaar Art Galleries, book and publishing contracts, and receipts for art supply purchases.
Printed material includes a brochure for the Guy Pène Du Bois School of Art, clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and miscellaneous printed material.
Artwork consists of pen and ink sketches by Pène Du Bois and a print by an unknown artist.
Biographical materials consist of certificates, a curriculum vitae, passport, and a photograph of two unidentified women.
Correspondence is primarily with Pène Du Bois' family, friends, and business associates. The series includes significant correspondence from fellow art critic Royal Cortissoz; artists Raphael Soyer and Edward Hopper; and writers Samuel Duff McCoy, Lincoln Isham, and Newton Booth Tarkington. The over 180 letters to Lincoln Isham detail Pène Du Bois' daily life, in addition to covering his thoughts on writing, philosophy, politics, and news of his family.
Other correspondents of note include C.W. Kraushaar Art Galleries and Pène Du Bois' son, the children's book illustrator William Pène Du Bois. There are also letters of condolences addressed to Pène Du Bois' daughter, Yvonne McKenney.
Writings include book drafts of Pène Du Bois' autobiography, Artists Say the Silliest Things, 2 bound journals dating from 1913-1955, journal entries, 35 essays on various art related topics, 8 short stories, and various writing fragments and notes. The journal entries are primarily writing exercises in essay style and cover diverse topics of fashion, character studies, art history, and current events.
Personal business records consist of account and sales records from C.W. Kraushaar Art Galleries, two book and publishing contracts, and miscellaneous receipts for art supply purchases.
Printed material includes a brochure for the Guy Pène Du Bois School of Art, clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and miscellaneous printed material.
Artwork consists of pen and ink sketches by Pène Du Bois and a print by an unknown artist.
Scrapbooks compiled by Mrs. Marcel Duchamp containing: ca. 15 letters and telegrams to Marcel Duchamp, 1947-1967; poems sent to Duchamp from admirers; an essay on Duchamp by Guy Beatrice, 1954; transcript of an address given by Duchamp to the New York State Chess Association, 1952; an annotated transcript of a press conference interview at Knoedlers, 1967; printed material on Duchamp and others, including exhibition catalogues, announcements, invitations (some annotated by Duchamp), obituaries, and magazine articles; awards and an honorary degree; and miscellany, including a hairnet sent from Ray Johnson, a few photographs of his works, a poster, and airline tickets.
REELS 1792-1793: Correspondence; biographical data; writings on art; photos of art work, and personal photos, with one of Diego Rivera; contracts; price lists for art work; exhibition catalogues, announcements, and invitations; and 245 clippings. Also included are 21 critiques of her work written by John Dos Passos, Rene d'Harnoncourt, Diego Rivera, David Alfaro Siqueiros, and others.
25 photographs, including several posed portraits, of du Vannes, du Vannes with his wives, with a client, painting in his St. Paul and New York studios, and in his New York art gallery. Also included are four color photos, including one of du Vannes' son, Armand, with paintings by his father, mother, and a portrait of Armand by Benton Scott, and one each of the paintings. A caricature of du Vannes from the St. Paul Dispatch, ca. 1902, captioned "Albert di Giovanni - The Young St. Paul Artist Who Left for New York Yesterday," signed Rhodes, and a brief biography of du Vannes by his son complete the collection.
REEL P21: Broadside advertising lithography, 7 Bank Alley, Philadelphia.
REEL P29: A publication: Portraits of the first twelve Presidents of the United States, engraved in stone by Albert Newsam, lithographed by P. S. Duval, 1846, and published by C. S. Williams.
A United States Circuit Court Bill of Indictment: The United States of America vs. Benjamin Duveen, Henry J. Duveen, Joel J. Duveen, Joseph J. Duveen, and Louis J. Duveen, 1910; a "supplemental protest" to the Commisssioner of Internal Revenue from Joseph Duveen, May 5, 1927; a statement before the Commissioner of Internal Revenue "in the matter of the income taxes for the fiscal years ended May 31, 1923 to 1931, of Duveen Brothers, Inc." (2 copies); and an article about Joseph Duveen.
The papers of painter and teacher Frank Duveneck and his wife, painter Elizabeth Boott Duveneck measure 1.2 linear feet and date from 1851-1972, bulk 1851-1919. Aspects of the lives and work of the artists are documented in correspondence, creative writings, research notes, scrapbooks, newspaper clippings, magazine articles, ephemera, sketches and sketchbooks, and vintage photographs.
The limited amount of correspondence in this collection includes separate letters from Frank Duveneck and Elizabeth Duveneck, primarily to family members, which describe studies and travel abroad, works in progress, exhibitions, and after their marriage, reports on family life. Frank Duveneck's correspondence also includes a letter from sculptor William Couper concerning the marble for a memorial to Elizabeth Boott Duveneck. There is also a folder of letters to and from Mr. and Mrs. Francis B. Duvencek, the son and daughter-in-law of the artist couple, that include reminiscences about Frank Duveneck from former student Bessie Wessel and a letter to Francis Duveneck from Daniel Chester French requesting permission to make a bronze from the plaster cast of the Duveneck's effigy of Elizabeth at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
Writings include Elizabeth Boott Duveneck's diary, a typescript of a speech attributed to Frank Duveneck, and research notes compiled by daughter-in-law Josephine Duveneck in preparation for her biography of her father-in-law.
Printed materials consist primarily of newspaper clippings and magazine articles on Frank Duveneck, but also include his Munich Royal Academy card and copy certificate from the Ministry of Florence, Italy. Newspaper clippings may also be found in the Scrapbook series, including Elizabeth Boott Duveneck's scrapbook of exhibition reviews of her paintings, and two folders of clippings pertaining to Frank Duveneck compiled by Josephine Duveneck. Frank Duveneck's scrapbook contains printed illustrations compiled by the artist while he was studying art in Munich.
Sketchbooks and sketches consist of four sketchbooks by Elizabeth Boott Duvenck and three by Frank Duveneck that document their growth as artists as they span several decades (particularly in the case of Elizabeth) of their respective careers. There are also two folders of loose, mostly early, portrait sketches by Elizabeth Boott Duveneck.
Vintage photographs depict Frank Duveneck alone, with family and friends, Elizabeth Boott Duveneck, Francis Boott with his daughter, John Twachtman, art classes including one of Wilhelm von Diez's classes in Munich, and a group photograph of the jury of the 1915 Panama-Pacific exposition. There is only one photograph that includes both Frank and Elizabeth Duveneck together along with her father Francis Boott and nurse Ann Shenston.
Found in this series are a letters from Frank Duveneck and Elizabeth Boott Duvenek to friends and family and a small group of letters addressed to their son and daughter-in-law, Francis and Josephine Duveneck, which contain remembrances of Frank Duvenceck by fellow artists and former pupils. Additionally there is a folder of letters and letter fragments from unidentified correspondents.
Letters from Elizabeth Boott Duveneck include childhood letters written to her uncle Arthur Lyman. However, the most of the letters was written after her marriage to Frank Duveneck. In letters to her father Francis Boott, mother-in-law Katherine Duveneck and an unidentified friend she describes their current work, family life, and travels. Elizabeth, who lived most of her life in Florence, Italy, noted that her husband was "too American to stay always here," and wrote of their plans to eventually return to the United States.
Frank Duveneck's letters were also mostly to friends and family, and include descriptions of his stays in Munich and Paris, the shock of the untimely death of his wife, and descriptions of works in progress. Of particular note is his correspondence with his father-in-law Francis Boott, in which he discusses being an artist in the United States, the sculptors Daniel Chester French and Augustus St. Gaudins and their hold on the commissions for public monuments and his own recent election to the presidency of the Society of Western Artists. There is also a letter from the sculptor William Couper concerning the marble memorial for Elizabeth Boott. Included in this folder are photocopies of illustrated letters that Duveneck sent home to his family while he was studying in Munich.
This series includes two volumes of an undated manuscript titled The Legend of Monteripido and a diary, both by Elizabeth Boott Duveneck, as well as a typescript of a speech attributed to Frank Duveneck. The diary, which only has a few entries, includes an account of paintings that the author viewed during an April 1875 trip to New York. Also found in this series are handwritten notes taken by Josephine Duveneck in preparation for her biography of her father-in-law, Frank Duveneck, which was published in 1970.
Found in this series are small publications, newspaper clippings, magazine articles, pamphlets, programs, and ephemera. Newspaper clippings and magazine articles about Frank Duveneck's life and art make up the bulk of this series. Individual items of note include Duveneck's Munich Royal Academy card from 1871-1872 and a copy certificate issued to him in 1887 from Ministry of Public Instruction, which allowed him free entry into the museums and galleries of Florence, Italy.
This series includes scrapbooks of clippings, illustrations, and photographs compiled by Frank Duveneck, Elizabeth Boott Duveneck and their daughter-in-law Josephine Duveneck. Frank Duveneck's scrapbook consists of illustrations, primarily portraits and scenes of war, which were clipped from printed materials collected and assembled by the artist in 1871 while he was an art student in Munich. This scrapbook also includes a limited number of pencil sketches that appear in the final pages. The scrapbook assembled by Elizabeth Boott Duveneck contains clippings of exhibition reviews of her paintings from 1879-1884. Also found in this series are two folders of material, mostly clippings, pertaining to the life, art, and career of Frank Duveneck assembled by Josephine Duveneck.
This series contains four sketchbooks and a group of loose sketches by Elizabeth Boott and three sketchbooks by Frank Duveneck. Elizabeth's sketches include examples of juvenilia as well as mature works. The earliest works include pencil and watercolor profile portraits of intimates of their American circle of friends including Nathanial Hawthorne and Robert Browning as well as a pair of charming self-portraits. Later sketchbooks include figure studies, landscapes and genre scenes executed in pencil, charcoal, conté crayon, and watercolor. Frank Duveneck's sketchbooks contain pencil studies of figures, architecture, landscapes, as well as compositions studies. The smallest sketchbooks includes pencil sketches of Venice that, although much looser in style, recall the artists' monotypes and etchings of the 1880s.
Found in this series are 43 vintage prints including photographs of Frank Duveneck, Elizabeth Boott Duveneck, Francis Boott, as well as group shots of art classes including one of Wilhelm von Diez's classes in Munich from 1871, several photographs of Duveneck's art classes at the Cincinnati Academy of Fine Arts, and a photograph of the Jury of the 1915 Panama-Pacific Exposition that in addition to Duveneck includes Twachtman, Farney, Dengler, Rudolph Tschadi, and others. Vintage prints include albumen, salt prints, carte-de-visite and cabinet cards.
In addition to the vintage prints numbered above, this series also includes an album of photographs of Duveneck's tomb as well as copy prints and transparencies of the vintage photographs in the collection.
(nine vintage photographs; oversize material housed in OV 3)
Correspondence, 1845-1919, of Duveneck and his wife, Elizabeth Boott Duveneck. Included are two letters from Duveneck to Theodore Wores and 7 letters from Julius Rolshoven. Other correspondents include John W. Beatty, William Couper, Daniel Chester French, Mrs. Walter Shirlaw, and Thad Welch. Many of the letters from Elizabeth Boott were written from Europe, including 11 to William Morris Hunt's painting class (1876-1880), and a lengthy account of her travels written to her father (1881).
"Ladies" album containing: poetry and sentiments from friends and relatives as well as several engravings, a sketch, two calling cards, and a lock of hair. Among the family members who signed are: G[eorge] A[ddison] Throop, Eliza Throop, and James A. Throop. Most of the entries indicate that they were written in Preston (Chenango Co.), N.Y. or in the surrounding towns.
Photographs and reproductions of designs by James and John Earley for buildings in Washington, D.C.
Reel 1271: An album of 25 photographs of a model of the Library of Congress with proposed designs; an album of 21 photographs of unidentified bas reliefs; and a book of reproductions of James Earley's carvings and sculptures.
Reel 1202: Ca. 60 photographs and reproductions of models and sculpture for the Library of Congress, the Franciscan Monastery and other buildings in Washington, D.C.
Roberts' 1897-1898 membership ticket to the Art Students League of New York.
Scrapbooks, clippings, correspondence, photographs and exhibition catalogs and announcements.
Papers include a catalog of Eckstein's life and work, The Way (1999), and a curriculum vitae.
The papers of Los Angeles conceptual sculptor, painter, and photographer Doug Edge measure 2.9 linear feet and date from circa 1951 to 2020. The collection includes exhibition and project files, illustrated journals, writings, printed material, photographic material, and artwork. There is a 0.2 linear foot unprocessed addition to this collection donated in 2021 that includes a self published book and notes. Materials date from 1969-2020.
Exhibition and project files include correspondence, photographs, slides, transparencies, sketches, writing, clippings, and other printed material related to Edge's exhibitions, projects, and work. This series also includes some biographical material and material related to his student work. Also included in this series are digital videos related to Edge's artwork and exhibitions.
Illustrated journals contain drawings, sketches, writings, plans for work and exhibitions, photographs, etc. Some in the series are primarily image-based, while others have more text.
Writings include a statement written by Doug Edge in 2017 and a transcript, in scroll format, of a lecture by Robert Irwin at the University of California, Santa Barbara in 1974.
Printed material includes exhibition announcements; exhibition catalogs; the magazines Eclipse and Forum; clippings; posters; and a copy of James Turrell's syllabus and course materials for a course taught at the University of California, Santa Barbara.
Photographic material includes photographs Edge took on a trip with James Turrell to Monument Valley and Lake Powell; photographs and digital photographs of works of art; and oversized photographs related to his exhibitions.
Artwork includes sketches, drawings, watercolors, silk screen prints, paintings, and other works of art.
Exhibition and project files include correspondence, photographs, slides, transparencies, sketches, writing, clippings, and other printed material related to Edge's exhibitions, projects, and work. This series also includes some biographical material, material related to his student work, his time as an instructor at the University of California, Santa Barbara (UCSB), and artist statemetns and other writings. Also included in this series is are digital videos related to Edge's artwork and exhibitions.
This series includes 14 notebooks containing drawings, sketches, plans for work and exhibitions, photographs, writings, etc. Some journals function primarily as sketchbooks and have little to no text, while others include more writing.
Writings include a statement written by Doug Edge in 2017 and a transcript, in scroll format, of a lecture by Robert Irwin at the University of California, Santa Barbara in 1974.
Printed material includes exhibition announcements, exhibition catalogs, magazines, clippings, posters, and a copy of James Turrell's syllabus and course materials for a course taught at the University of California, Santa Barbara.
Oversized material housed in OV 5.
Photographic material includes photographs Edge took on a trip with James Turrell to Monument Valley and Lake Powell; photographs and digital photographs of works of art, and oversized photographs related to his exhibitions.
Artwork includes sketches, drawings, watercolors, silk screen prints, paintings, and other works of art.
This small collection of papers of New York City art dealer Takis Efstathiou papers regarding Los Angeles artist Ynez Johnston measure 0.8 linear feet and date from 1954-2004. The papers include correspondence with Johnston and with institutions regarding Johnston's work and career, a few business records from the Ericson Gallery (owned by Efstathiou), printed material about Johnston, and photographic material of Johnston's artwork and of the artist at home, in her studio, and of the exhibition opening organized by Efstathiou at Ericson Gallery in 1979.
Correspondence dates from 1974-1999 and includes dozens of letters to and from Ynez Johnston regarding her work, exhibitions, and career. There is also a folder of correspondence between Efstathiou and various institutions concerning exhibitions, publications, loans, and gifts of Johnston's work.
Business records date from circa 1975-1979 and include addresses, business receipts, and inventory lists related to the operation of the Ericson Gallery.
Printed material dates from 1954-2004 and consists of announcements, press releases, clippings, curricula vitae, a monograph, and other publications related to or featuring the work of Ynez Johnston. Efstathiou was consulted on Johnston's exhibition history for the monograph by Gerald Norland. Correspondence between Efstathiou and Norland is in series 1.
Photographic material dates from circa 1977-1999 and includes photographic prints, negatives, slides, and transparencies of Johnston's artwork. There are also slides from visits that Efstathiou made to Johnson's studio in Los Angeles in the late 1970s and prints from Johnston's exhibition opening at Ericson Gallery in 1979.
Two-page holograph manuscript, signed by Eilshemius, (n.d., ca. 1930s) describing the inspiration for his paintings in addition to his life in Europe in the 1880s. Also included is a drawing by Eilshemius of an embellished picture frame.
Published poems, memoir, brochures, announcements and a musical score by Eilshemius; exhibition catalogs; and clippings.
REEL 2803 (fr. 1091-1143, 1153-1160): A booklet containing "Satires on Art" and reproductions of two paintings for sale at 118 E. 57th St (1931); an announcement for "Companionship - an unusual metrical work"; an announcement for "over 4,000 oils, 1500 drawings of scenes in 20 countries. A real educative output non pareill"; an announcement "You Make Money by Making Your Own Picture Frames"; a musical score, "Six Musical Moods," 1897, composed and autographed by Eilshemius; and a brochure, "Some New Discoveries in Science and Art," 1932, containing writings and biographical information.
REEL 4283: Published poems: "Mystery and Truth: A Sonnet-Sequence (c1907),"Thoughts at Night-time" (c1909); "Creation's End - a Four Page Epic" (c1925); all published under his Dreamer's Press' and Three Arts' Friend - A Monthly, v. 1, no. 2 (Nov. 1925)
UNMICROFILMED: Three Arts' Friend (v. 1, no. 3 (Feb. 1926); and "My Brother Victor - A Convalescent's Fancy" (c1912) described on the title page as "[a] memorie was written at Paris, France, in the author's twenty-third year; while studying Art at Julian's."
REEL N70-48: Clippings, 1932-1941; exhibition catalogs from the Boyer and Kleemann Galleries; and pamphlets.
The photographs of San Francisco photographer William J. Eisenlord measure 0.3 linear feet and date from 1953-1976. Photographs depict the City Lights Bookstore of San Francisco, California and the exhibition opening of "Poets of the Cities" at the San Francisco Museum of Art in 1976. Also included are photographs of jazz and beat poetry performances taken by Ed Nyberg in 1957.
City Lights Bookstore was a popular meeting ground for many people associated with the Beat literary movement in San Francisco. The collection includes one exterior window photograph of the bookstore taken the year of its founding in 1953, and fifteen interior photographs of the store taken circa 1959. The interior shots include images of bookstore founder Lawrence Ferlinghetti, bookstore manager Shigeyoshi Murao, and various customers browsing the stacks.
The photographs taken at the "Poets of the Cities" exhibition opening on January 30, 1976 at the San Francisco Museum of Art include notable figures Jack Micheline, Claes Oldenburg, James Broughton, Phil Linhares, Mark and Sally Green, Michael Larsen, Elizabeth Pomada, Ken deRoux, Peter and Minette LeBlanc, Jack Hirschman, Rolando Castellon, Knute Stiles, Michael and Joanna McClure, Byron Meyer, Peter Selz, Leo Castelli, George Herms, and Shirley and Wallace Berman.
Also included are ten photographs taken in 1957 by Ed Nyberg at The Jazz Cellar, a popular San Francisco beat nightclub. Notable figures include Kenneth Rexroth, Lawrence Ferlinghetti, Grover Sales Jr., Sonny Wayne, and Bill Weisjahn.
City Lights Bookstore was a popular meeting ground for many people associated with the Beat literary movement in San Francisco. The collection includes one exterior window photograph of the bookstore taken the year of its founding in 1953, and fifteen interior photographs of the store taken circa 1959. The interior shots include images of bookstore founder Lawrence Ferlinghetti, bookstore manager Shigeyoshi Murao, and various customers browsing the stacks.
(Pictured are William Brothers, Cathy Furniss, William J. Eisenlord, and unidentified others)
(Pictured are Lawrence Ferlinghetti and unidentified others)
(Pictured are Lawrence Ferlinghetti, Shigeyoshi Murao and unidentified others)
The photographs taken at the "Poets of the Cities" exhibition opening on January 30, 1976 at the San Francisco Museum of Art include notable figures Jack Micheline, Claes Oldenburg, James Broughton, Phil Linhares, Mark and Sally Green, Michael Larsen, Elizabeth Pomada, Ken deRoux, Peter and Minette LeBlanc, Jack Hirschman, Rolando Castellon, Knute Stiles, Michael and Joanna McClure, Byron Meyer, Peter Selz, Leo Castelli, George Herms, and Shirley and Wallace Berman.
(Pictured are Jack Micheline, Claes Oldenburg, H. King, Bob Whyte, and unidentified others)
(Pictured are James Broughton, Bob White, Dennis O'Leary, Sue Foley, H. King, Phil Linhares, and unidentified others)
(Pictured are Barbara Wohl, Phil Linhares, and unidentified others)
(Pictured are Mark Green, Michael Larsen, Elizabeth Pomada, Ken deRoux, and unidentified others)
(Pictured are John Berguin, Minette and Peter LeBlanc, Kirby Ferlinghetti, Jack Hirschman, Rolando Castellon and his wife, Knute Stiles, Dana and Bob Johnson, and unidentified others)
(Pictured are H. King, Joanna McClure, Shigeyoshi Murao, Minette LeBlanc and her mother, and unidentified others)
(Pictured are Mrs. Nicholas Boyd, Mary Miles Ryan, Byron Meyer, H. King, Peter Selz, Leo Castelli, and unidentified others)
(Pictured are H. King, Peter Selz, Minette LeBlanc, E. Kaufman, Sally and Mark Green, and unidentified others)
(Pictured are Shigeyoshi Murao, Michael McClure, George Herms, Shirley and Wallace Berman, and unidentified others)
This series consists of ten photographs taken in 1957 by Ed Nyberg at The Jazz Cellar, a popular San Francisco beat nightclub. Notable figures include Kenneth Rexroth, Lawrence Ferlinghetti, Grover Sales Jr., Sonny Wayne, and Bill Weisjahn.
(Pictured are Kenneth Rexroth, Lawrence Ferlinghetti, Grover Sales Jr., Sonny Wayne, Bill Weisjahn, and unidentified others)
Dissertation.
Lecture notes; writings; proofs; sketches; negatives and photographs.
REEL 1094: Typewritten copy of a short essay entitled, "Cartooning and the Search for Ideas"; handwritten list of words Ellis used to get ideas; a sketchbook; ca. 1000 small sketches; and pages from "The Life and Work of Daumier" by Henri Franz with sketches Ellis did of Daumier's work.
UNMICROFILMED: Ten political cartoons, ca. 1930, correspondence, clippings, reproductions of Ellis' political cartoons, catalogs, photographs, and a typescript "Memories as told to his wife Ethel."
REEL 124: A small childhood drawing book by Edwin Romanzo Elmer; four letters received by Edwin's niece, Maud V. Elmer, 1952-1953; a page of notes by Maud V. Elmer; a book, ELMER-ELMORE GENEAOLOGY, 1899; 14 pages of mounted clippings; three exhibition catalogs from Smith College, the Corcoran, and American Federation of Arts, 1953; one bulletin from the Corcoran; and a 22 page manuscript of Maud Elmer's biography, "Edwin Romanzo Elmer As I Knew Him." Also included are two letters from Elizabeth McCausland regarding Edwin Romanzo Elmer; eight photographs of Elmer's paintings, and five of Elmer and his family; and ca. 40 loose clippings.
REEL 2803: Two photographs, one of Edwin Romanzo Elmer and relatives, and one of a pastel by Elmer; a few pages detailing the Elmore-Elmer genealogy; and clippings.
69 Letters removed from a scrapbook from Emerson to his wife Anne and daughter Rae; exhibition catalogs; a list of paintings; a photograph of Emerson; and miscellany documenting the time Emerson spent in Chicago, Illinois trying to sell his work. In the letters, Emerson describes the people he meets, the galleries he visits, and in one letter lists the title, size, and asking price of his paintings.
The papers of Allan D. and Kate S. Emil relate primarily to their gift to New York University of Pablo Picasso's "Bust of Sylvette," executed in concrete by Carl Nesjar. There is also an unrelated letter from Henry Moore.
Four photographs of the construction of the sculpture, clippings, press releases, eight letters commenting on the sculpture, and a booklet about it. In addition there is a letter dated October 21, 1966, from Henry Moore who writes about his sculpture, "King and Queen," done in 1952-1953.
14 sketchbooks, twenty sketches, seven photographs, a reprint of an interview, 1899, clippings and papers documenting Enneking's art career. Photographs depict Enneking, his work and his studio in Boston. Clippings discuss his exhibitions, his work and his life. Other items include a notebook containing financial notations, thoughts about religion, and exhibition notes, an address book dated 1904, a price list and inventory, and a 1914 letter relating to the purchase of a building for the Guild of Boston Artists.
The scattered papers of sculptor Lily Ente measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1946 to 1975. The papers include correspondence, personal business records, three photographs, and printed material.
Found is scattered correspondence with friends, colleagues, and organizations including the Women's Interart Center. Three photographs depict Ente with others including Gordon Brown, editor of ARTS magazine, and Artists Equity Association members. Personal business records contain sales and consignment records, gift acknowledgements, and a prospectus plan for an exhibition by Ente. Printed materials include clippings, and exhibition announcements and catalogs, some of which are photocopies.
The letters relating to painter and sculptor Max Ernst's American citizenship status measure 0.01 linear feet and date from circa 1957. Correspondence is mainly between Ernst's wife Dorothea (Tanning) and attorney John Frank regarding Max Ernst's efforts to retain American citizenship, which was jeapordized by the McCarren Act and Ernst's extended periods of residence abroad. Many of the letters provide details of Ernst's career and give a chronology of his travels. Included is one letter from Max Ernst to John Frank. All of the documents in this collection are photocopies.
This series consists of photocopies of correspondence and supporting documents regarding Max Ernst's American citizenship status. Correspondence is mainly between Ernst's wife Dorothea (Tanning) and attorney John Frank regarding Max Ernst's efforts to retain American citizenship, which was jeopardized by the McCarren Act and Ernst's extended periods of residence abroad. Many of the letters provide details of Ernst's career and give a chronology of his travels. Included is one letter from Max Ernst to John Frank.
Photographs of Maine artists by Etnier, including William Thon (5); Karl Schrag (2); and John Heliker (1).
Correspondence, journal, writings, printed material, scrapbook, and two card files on paintings.
REEL D251: Correspondence; a war journal, July 29 through August 26, 1944, recounting the liberation of Paris; a limited edition book, 1932, GRAVEYARD BY THE SEA (LE CIMETIERE MARIN) by Paul Valéry, in French with English translation and original illustrations by Etting; clippings and critical material; exhibition catalogs and announcements; speeches, broadcasts and writings.
REELS 4158-4159: A manuscript "A Studio in Paris" describing Etting's experiences studying with Andre Lhote in Paris, 1928-1931, and a volume of illustrations for the manuscript; ten volumes of scrapbooks containing photographs, clippings, exhibition invitations and checklists; photographs of works of art, models, exhibition installations, and of Etting's school in Philadelphia; and two card files containing data on Etting's paintings, one compiled by an intern, 1985.
REEL 4340: Three exhibition catalogs and two postcards.
Primarily artists' letters from the autograph section of the Etting collection, as well as 30 letters to Etting from artists or concerning art related matters. Letters to Etting are dated 1854-1889, from James R. Lambdin, Catherine A. Drinker, Edward D. Marchant, Edward Lamson Henry, William C. Sanders, Anna M. Lea, J.J. Sawyer, William B. Myers, George C. Lambdin, Peter F. Rothermel, Frank B. Mayer, and William A. Coffin. Items from the autograph section include: a receipt from Thomas Birch to Mr. Shippen, Nov. 7, 1811; letters to Robert Gilmore from William Dunlap, George Catlin, Henry Inman, John Gadsby Chapman, Thomas Cole, Thomas Doughty, Horatio Greenough, George Harvey and William Sidney Mount;
letters to Henry A. Wise from John Gadsby Chapman, Ferdinand Pettrich, and L. Walk; to G.C. Childs from William Kneass, John Neagle, and John Sully; and to Ben. Perley Poore from J.W. Osborne and Henry Stone. Additional items include letters of Pierre Eugene Du Simitiere, Charles Fraser, Alexander Galt, Sanford Robinson Gifford, Joseph Jefferson, Charles Robert Leslie, Charles Willson Peale, Rembrandt Peale, Thomas Sully, John Trumbull (to Sully), and Benjamin West; and a list of subscribers to procure a full-length painting by Thomas Sully of LaFayette for Independence Hall.
Printed material and letters to Evans from collectors, dealers, and artists. Letters discuss business matters including the Munich International Art Exposition 1883, the American Watercolor Society, the Salmagundi Club, the Lotos Club, and Evans loaning work from his private collection for exhibitions, requests from artists wanting Evans to comment on and handle their work, thank you notes and invitations to openings and dinners. Significant correspondents include George Inness, Childe Hassam, Thomas W. Dewing, Worthington Whittredge, Albert Pinkham Ryder, Frederic Edwin Church, Joseph Pennell, Albert Bierstadt, Winslow Homer, Rembrandt Peale, Hobart Nichols, John George Brown, William A. Coffin and Eastman Johnson.
The records of Ex Libris measure 2.0 linear feet and date from 1973-2007. Ex Libris was a New York City based antiquarian establishment that dealt in rare 20th century avant-garde books and periodicals, and was founded by Elaine Lustig Cohen and her husband Arthur A. Cohen. The records include professional files, sales records, printed material, and photographic material.
Professional files date from 1973-2007 and record Ex Libris's involvement with collectors, exhibitions, and works by specific artists. Items include correspondence, invoices, price lists, inventories, photographic material, exhibition brochures, and consignment and purchase agreements.
Sales records date from 1979-1998 and include invoices for purchased material.
Printed material dates from 1973-circa 1991 and includes an article about Ex Libris, a bibliography of catalogs, exhibition announcements and lists, and inventory mailings. The majority of the printed material relates to Ex Libris's inventory and includes bulletins, catalogs, pamphlets, short lists, and special lists mailed to their collectors.
Photographic material dates from circa 1980s and includes prints and negatives of inventory items.
Correspondence, questionnaires for projects, proposals, a bibliography of publications by and about E.A.T., newsletters, catalogs, clippings, and photograph of a model for the Pepsi Cola Pavilion.
The papers of art historian and Monuments Man S. Lane Faison measure 5.1 linear feet and date from 1922 to 1981, bulk from 1950-1976. Faison was an art history professor at Williams College, Massachusetts and, during World War II, he was a member of the Art Looting Intelligence Unit (ALIU) of the U.S. Office of Strategic Services. The collection includes scattered correspondence; writings; teaching files; subject files on exhibitions and projects; artists files; and printed materials. There are two folders of documents and photographs related to Faison's World War II work in the U.S. Art Looting Intelligence Unit.
Six folders of scattered correspondence relate to Faison's teaching, lectures, and writings.
Writings include bound student notebooks, lecture notes, typescript drafts, published articles, and material related to his book Handbook of the Collection: Williams College Museum of Art. Eighteen bound notebooks are filled with Faison's college class notes. There are typescript drafts of Faison's articles and speeches, as well as printed versions. Papers relating to Faison's book Handbook of the Collection: Williams College Museum of Art include several drafts, a correction copy, and a folder of illustrations to accompany the text.
Teaching files consist of course files containing miscellaneous notes for classes taught by Faison. The syllabi for classes he taught are filed separately.
Subject files are arranged into three groups: Monuments Men/ALIU files; projects and exhibitions files, and general research files. There are only two folders relating to Faison's World War II work in the ALIU. They contain photographs of looted artwork and documents about the controversial decision to ship recovered artwork to the U.S. for storage in the National Gallery in Washington, D.C. Projects and exhibitions files document Faison's curatorial work on the Oberlin Project (a traveling exhibition of college art) and the Carnegie International Exhibition, and other miscellaneous collaborative projects. Research files contain documents organized according to Faison's original folder headings and include miscellaneous images and clippings loosely grouped together by topic: architecture, advertising, housing, poster design, etc.
Artist files are Faison's documents on specific artists that mostly contain images of artwork, clippings and articles. Artist files were mostly used for teaching and reference.
Printed materials include news clippings, exhibition catalogs, press releases, reports and other miscellaneous materials.
Scattered correspondence is with friends and colleagues about events, classes, lectures and various topics of art history. Most were written during Faison's tenure at Williams College. Several letters are related to the publication of Faison's book the Handbook of a Collection: Williams College Museum of Art.
Faison's writings date from his days as a student and continue through his career as a professor. Found here are eighteen college notebooks, typescript drafts of lectures and articles, and clippings of published articles. There are also typescript drafts, illustrations and a correction copy of his book Handbook of the Collection: Williams College Museum of Art, in addition to a few papers and notes for a book on Manet.
Oversized material housed in Box 7, Folder 1.
Oversized material housed in Box 7, Folder 2.
Oversized material housed in Box 7, Folder 3.
Oversized material from Box 2, Folder 27.
Oversized material from Box 2, Folder 34.
Oversized material from Box 2, Folder 35.
Found here are documents concerning two books written by Faison. There is one folder relating to a pocket book edition on Édouard Manet written by Faison. The remaining files are on Faison's Handbook of the Collection: Williams College Museum of Art, including three drafts, a compilation of images for publication, and a print edition on which "SLF correction copy" has been written on the cover in ink. None of the drafts for the book are dated. .
Teaching files consist of course files and syllabi for classes Faison taught at Williams College. Files contain handwritten notes for lectures, copies of assignments and exam questions, and some miscellaneous printed materials such as images of art, news clippings and articles for reference.
Subject files contain miscellaneous documents related to Faison's World War II activities and work, special projects and exhibitions, and general research or topics of interest.
There are only two folders of papers documenting Faison's World War II work in the Art Looting Investigation Unit and related activities. There are documents related to a controversy regarding the shipment to Washington, D.C. of 202 recovered paintings stolen by the Nazis from Berlin museums. The shipment was protested by many prominent art historians, including Faison, who signed a petitition to stop the shipment. The folder includes a press release about the controversy, a list of signers of the resolution, a section of a U.S. State Department bulletin about the return of the paintings, and a few news clippings. The second folder in this subseries contains black and white photographs of what appears to be art looted from the Naples National Gallery by the Nazis for Hermann Göring's personal art collection.
These photographs were originally in an envelope that contained a note: "Hitler Coll. Goering: Karinhall." This likely indicates that the photographs depict items stolen from the Naples National Museum by Hermann Göring for his personal art collection at his Karinhall residence. One photo IT 42 appears to be missing from the set, but there is an index card with the following annotation that describes what was shown in the photograph: "IT 42 Jewelry: 2 rugs, a chair, Naples Natl. Gallery."
Found here are project and exhibition files containing brochures, news clippings, articles, reports, and other assorted materials. There is a file on a television course on the humanities; collaborations with organizations such as the Berkshire Arts Association of which he was a member; and exhibitions he organized, including the Oberlin Project for which Faison was on the planning committee. The Oberlin Project was an exhibition of college-owned art that toured Europe. The Oberlin Project folder includes a few letters from Charles Parkhurst - professor at Oberlin College, Ohio, director of the college museum, and a fellow Monuments Man.
Oversized material housed in Box 7, Folder 4.
Oversized material housed in Box 7, Folder 5.
Faison's research files cover a variety of subjects. Most of the folders are related to art, but there are also folders on automobiles, housing, advertising, and many other topics. The files contain clippings, pamphlets, articles, and a few photographs.
Oversized material housed in Box 7, Folder 6.
Oversized material housed in Box 7, Folder 7.
Oversized material housed in Box 7, Folder 8.
Oversized material housed in Box 7, Folder 9.
Oversized material housed in Box 7, Folder 10.
Oversized material housed in Box 7, Folder 11.
Artists reference files contain images of art, news clippings, articles and other assorted materials Faison collected for teaching and research.
Oversized material housed in Box 7, Folder 12.
Oversized material housed in Box 7, Folder 13.
Oversized material housed in Box 7, Folder 14.
Oversized material housed in Box 7, Folder 15.
Oversized material housed in Box 7, Folder 16.
Oversized material housed in Box 7, Folder 17.
Oversized material housed in Box 7, Folder 18.
Oversized material housed in Box 7, Folder 17.
Oversized material housed in Box 7, Folder 19.
Oversized material housed in Box 7, Folder 20.
Oversized material housed in Box 7, Folder 21.
Printed materials consist of exhibition catalogs, bulletins, reports, news clippings, press releases, magazines and other miscellaneous printed matter.
There is a copy of the Report on the Committee on the Visual Arts at Harvard University which examined the role of the arts in the curriculum. The report was by the Harvard Committee, whose chair was philanthropist and later Smithsonian regent John Nicholas Brown and the executive secretary was Faison. During World War II, President Roosevelt appointed Brown to General Eisenhower's staff as Special Cultural Advisor and the civilian head of the Monuments, Fine Arts & Archives Section. Brown also argued against the removal of German-owned artworks to the United States in 1945.
Oversized material housed in Box 7, Folder 22.
Oversized material housed in Box 7, Folder 23.
The papers of painter and assemblage artist Gary Falk measure 2.5 linear feet and 0.005 GB and date from circa 1955-2013. The papers document his career as an artist in New York through biographical material, including project proposals, student records, and items from his memorial service; a small amount of personal correspondence; four notebooks; exhibition files; printed material; photographs of Falk, Falk with friends, artwork, and travel; digital photographs of artwork; and original artwork, including drawings, collages, and two sketchbooks.
Found here are Gary Falk's appointment books, passport, and wallet, as well as lists and digital photographs of his works, project proposals, and records of his time as a student at Yale University. Also found are a short memoir written by Lillian Falk, Gary's mother, and items from his memorial service, including eulogies, and recordings of the speakers and music on two sound cassettes.
The small amount of correspondence found here includes a personal letters to Gary Falk, and a few postcards he sent his parents. Also found are letters of condolence and letters to his parents regarding the posthumous exhibition of his artwork.
Notebooks from 1979 and 1985 contain general notes, including some sales records and project ideas. One travel notebook documents a trip to Italy. One notebook from circa 2004 only contains a few entries and possibly belonged to Gary Falk's parents.
Found here are files documenting exhibitions in which Gary Falk showed works. The contents of each file varies, but may include exhibition catalogs and announcements, press clippings, photographs, correspondence, loan agreements, and price lists.
Printed material includes magazines articles and news clippings regarding Gary Falk's work. Also included are exhibition announcements, a few photocopied source images, event programs, publications from Yale which mention Falk, and a monograph about Falk printed after his death.
Found here are portraits of Gary Falk, personal color snapshots of Falk with friends, photographs of his apartment, and photographs and slides of works of art. Also found are many travel photographs and snapshots of his time as a visiting artist in Cummington, Massachusetts, and black and white photographs taken by Falk.
Found here are pencil drawings, collages, and two sketchbooks belonging to Gary Falk. Included are clock designs in colored pencil on black paper. Many of the pencil drawings and collages have source material from magazines attached. Also found are student and childhood drawings and two works of art on fabric.
Oversized material housed in OV 5
Correspondence with Falk regarding the Federal Theater Project in New York, particularly at the Civic University Theater in Syracuse. Correspondents include Hallie Flanagan, National Director of FTP. Also, programs, clippings, miscellaneous printed material, and a copy of INJUNCTION GRANTED, a play published in 1938.
Florence Fitts, Director, Falmouth Historical Society, discusses Samuel Frazer with Gertrude Frazer, daughter of Samuel Frazer, Mary H. Otis, great-niece of Samuel Frazer and George Wood, a volunteer at the the Falmouth Historical Society. The discussions took place to gain background information on Frazer.
Photograph of painter and arts patron Mildred Burrage with family friend Janet Sharon Johnston (Farr) and her brother, William Johnston, in Kittery, Maine.
Brochure for the Design Laboratory, "a free school for instruction in industrial design, graphic arts and fine arts, established by the Federal Art Project of the Works Progress Administration ... open only to those amateur and professional students who cannot afford to attend private schools." At 10 East 39 St., N.Y. Director: Gilbert Rohde.
Photographs, clippings, writings, and publications relating to the Federal Art Project in California, particularly San Francisco.
Reel NDA 1, frames 752-767: Correspondence and lists relating to exhibitions of works by San Francisco artists.
Reel NDA 2: Articles from the San Francisco Art Association BULLETIN, 1934-1940 and MAGAZINE OF ART, October 1937.
Reel NDA 3(frames 13-20): Exhibtion catalog of Federal Art Project work at the University of California, Berkeley, Art Gallery, 1936. [Microfilm title University of California Art Gallery]
Reel NDA 14: Clippings, photographs, and press releases relating to the decoration by the FAP of the Enlisted Men's Club at Fort Ord, California; and photographs and biographical information relating to about 20 artists employed by FAP in Northern California.[Microfilm title Fort Ord, California and WPA-FAP, San Francisco]
Reel NDA 17: Photographs of sculpture, murals, easel work, graphics, and other works of art by various artists working for the FAP in California; and a list of artists on the Graphic Arts Project, San Francisco.
Reel NDA 20: Photographs of artists and works of art for the FAP in San Francisco.
Reel NDA 27: One publication of the University of California's Medical School murals, 1939; one photograph of project personnel, San Francisco; one newspaper article: "Bernard Zakheim and the U.C. Medical School," December 6, 1964.
Handpainted, illustrated plates of period costume designs throughout history, accompanied by descriptive handbooks recounting the historical context of the costumes.
A card file containing biographical data on artists who participated in or were prospective participants for the Work Projects Administration of the Federal Works Agency. Information on each artist includes name, date and place of birth, state of residence, training, awards, activities, exhibitions of work, and collections containing the artist's work. Cards do not contain information about art work done for the WPA Art Program, although participation in earlier federal and state art patronage projects is mentioned. The creator of the card file is not known. Most of the biographical data covers artist's careers to ca. 1939.
The Federal Art Project (FAP), Photographic Division collection dates from circa 1920-1965, with the bulk of the records spanning the active years of the FAP: 1935-1942. The collection comprises 12.4 linear feet of photographic prints and negatives, including photos of FAP artists and the artwork created by them, and other activities of the FAP in communities throughout New York City and other states. Photographers include Andrew Herman, Sol Horn, David Robbins, Leo Seltzer, and others.
Artist files comprise three-quarters of the collection and consist primarily of photographs of artwork, as well as scattered photos of artists at work, including: Charles Alston, Luis Arenal, Richmond Barthe, John Benson, Andrew Berger, Lucille Blanch, Lucienne Bloch, Ilya Bolotowsky, Luise Brann, Selma Burke, Letterio Calapai, Eugene Chodorow, Francis Criss, Stuart Davis, Adolf Dehn, Virginia Dehn, Jose de Rivera, George Pearse Ennis, Philip Evergood, Eugenie Gershoy, Bertram Goodman, Arshile Gorky, Marion Greenwood, Philip Guston, Donal Hord, Joseph Hovell, William Karp, Yasuo Kuniyoshi, Edward Laning, Julian Levi, Audrey McMahon, Elizabeth Olds, Anton Refregier, Will Shuster, William Zorach, and others.
The remainder of the collection consists of files documenting related activities and programs of the FAP, arranged by subject. The bulk of these files document the activities of the New York City FAP, including free art classes and art exhibitions for adults and children, exhibitions at the Harlem Art Center, and the work of FAP branches including the Easel Division, the Graphic Arts Division, and the Poster Division.
Other subjects documented include federal and community art centers in eleven states, most extensively Washington State; other WPA projects such as the Federal Theater Project, the Federal Music Project, and the Federal Writers' Project; buildings decorated with FAP artwork; art processes as demonstrated by FAP artists; special events; and people involved with the FAP, including director Holger Cahill.
One folder contains images that appear to have been taken by Berenice Abbott for the exhibition Changing New York (1935), for the Museum of the City of New York in collaboration with the WPA.
This series consists primarily of photographs of artwork produced by FAP artists, in addition to scattered photographs of artists and other individuals engaged in FAP work, or attending FAP events. An attempt has been made to date photographs using dates provided on the back of the photos where these exist, although it should be noted that those dates may not accurately indicate the date on which copy prints were produced. In the case of undated material a date of "circa 1935-circa 1942" is assigned to the folder, since it can reasonably be assumed that most photographs were taken within that time period. A few items pre-date or post-date the existence of the FAP.
includes photo of Alshets, 1938 August
includes photos of Alston, 1939
includes photos of Arenal, 1936
includes photos of Ausubel, 1937-1938
includes photos of Bannarn
includes photos of Barela, circa 1936
includes photo of Barthe, 1941
includes photo of Barto, 1937 October
includes photo of Bates
includes photo of Benson, 1938 May
includes photo of Berger, 1936 April
photo of Biddle, 1936
includes photo of Blanch, 1940 October
includes photos of Bloch, circa 1938
includes photos of Bolotowsky, circa 1938-circa 1939
includes photos of Brann, circa 1936
Identification of artist in photographs as Manuel Bromberg, noted in verso inscriptions, is incorrect. Artist in photographs is unidentified.
includes photo of Brooks, 1940 August
includes photos of Burke
includes photos of Calapai, circa 1937
includes photo of Cervantez
includes photos of Chanase, circa 1942
includes photos of Chodorow and August Henkel, circa 1939
photo of Collins, 1939 April
includes photo of Costa, 1939
includes possible photo of Crimi
includes photo of Criss, October 1930
includes photo of Davis, January 1939
includes photos of Dearing, circa 1939
includes photos of Adolf and Virginia Dehn, Reginald Marsh and Elizabeth Olds
includes photos of De Rivera
photo of Dirk, 1937 October
includes photo of Egri, 1937 April
photo of Emery, circa 1937
includes photos of Ennis, circa 1936
photo of Enters
includes photos of Evergood, 1938 May, 1939 June
includes photos of Ferstadt
includes photos of Finta, 1939 June
includes photos of Fogel
includes photo of Garrison, 1939 May
includes photos of Gaulois, 1938
includes photos of Gershoy, 1938, 1940
includes photos of Glenn, circa 1937
includes photos of Glicenstein, 1940
includes photos of Glinsky
includes photo of Goodman
includes photos of Gorky
photo of Mies
includes photo probably of Greene
includes photos of Greenwood, 1936, 1940
includes photo of Gregory
includes photos of Guston
includes photos of Harriton, 1938
includes photos of Heller, 1936
includes photos of Henkel
includes photo of Henricksen, 1938
includes photos of Hershman, circa 1939
includes photos of Hirsch, circa 1939
includes photos of Hord with others including Arthur Ames, Holger Cahill, Homer Dana, Joseph Daynish, Thyris Field, Pat Fleming, Jean Goodwin, Nelson Partridge, and Stanton MacDonald Wright
includes photos of Horn, circa 1937
includes photos of Horr, 1937, 1940
includes photo of Hovell, January 1936
includes photos of Ishigaki
photo of Jansen
includes photos of Jenkins, 1937
includes photos of Johnson, circa 1938
includes photo of Jones
includes photos of Juszko, circa 1939
includes photos of Karfunkle, circa 1938
includes photos of Karp, September 1936, September 1938
includes photo of King, October 1936
includes photo of Knotts, circa 1936
includes photos of Kraus, circa 1937
includes photos of Kuniyoshi, October 1940
includes photo of LaGrone
includes photos of Laning, 1937, 1938, 1940
includes photo of Levi, 1940 October
photo of Levy, April 1939
includes photo of Lewis, 1938 May
includes photo of Lightfoot, 1938 January
includes photo of Limbach, 1938 January
includes photos of Lishinsky, circa 1939
includes photos of Lo Medico, 1938 May
includes photos of Lord, 1938 August
includes photos of Ludins, 1937, 1939
includes photos of Maccoy and Leonard Jenkins, circa 1937
photo of Manship
includes photos of Margolis, 1949 May
includes photos of Markham, 1937 June
photo of Marshall
includes photos of McMahon and Holger Cahill
includes photos of Melicov, 1938 February, 1939 April
includes photos of Mose, circa 1936-circa 1939
includes photos of Nagy, circa 1939
includes photos of Newell, circa 1937
includes photo of Norling, circa 1937
includes photos of Olds, 1937
includes photos of Palmer, 1936-1937
includes photos of Pereira, 1938
includes photos of Racioppi
includes photos of Ransom, 1942
includes photos of Reeves, 1939-1940
includes photos of Refregier, 1939
includes photo of Reina, 1941
includes photos of Reisman
includes photo of Roberts
includes photo of Rolshoven
includes photo of Romano, 1936
includes photos of Ross
includes photo of Sanchez
photo of Savage
photo of Sawyer
includes photos of Schanker
includes photo of Seabrooke, 1939
photo of Selinkoff
photo of Shaw
includes photos of Shonnard
includes photo of Shuster
includes photo of Soyer, circa 1938
includes photo of Speakman, circa 1936
includes photo of Stea, 1939
photo of Stewart
includes photo of Suzuki, 1936
includes photo of Turner, 1940
includes photos of Van Aaltan, 1938-1939
photos of Williams
includes photos of Xceron, 1942
includes photos of Zorach, Reginald Marsh and Louis Bouché; see also Subject Files, Art Week (Box 24, F16)
Photographs in this series document many of the FAP's educational activities, such as classes for children and adults, primarily in New York City, and active community and federal art centers in other states including Iowa, Florida, and Washington State. Also found here are photos of non-federal public buildings decorated with FAP artwork, such as airports; photos of artists at work and demonstrating various processes; photos of exhibitions, including some at the Harlem Art Center; photos documenting FAP branches, including the Easel Division, the Graphic Arts Division, and the Poster Division; and photos documenting the Federal Music, Theater and Writers' Projects. There is one folder of photographs of a Civilian Conservation Corps camps training school. Also found here are photographs of people and events, including FAP director, Holger Cahill, and various artists with their work in exhibitions
One folder contains images taken by Berenice Abbott for the exhibition Changing New York, for the Museum of the City of New York in collaboration with the WPA.
In addition to copy prints and scattered negatives the series also contains a transcript of a Signal Corps Photographic Center dedication.
includes photo of Reginald Marsh, and photo of Louis Bouche, Reginald Marsh, and William Zorach
includes photos of Edward Laning
includes photos with Holger Cahill and others
includes photos with William H. Johnson, Jacob Lawrence, Augusta Savage, and possibly Gwendolyn Knight
includes photo of Louise Jefferson
includes photos with Gustave Baumann, Holger Cahill, Raymond Johnson, and Eugenie Shonnard
includes photos of Holger Cahill
Includes photo of Holger Cahill and probably Dorothy Miller, also includes photo of WPA project staff in Seattle, Washington, circa 1936.
A panel discussion "New Directions in American Painting and Sculpture," sponsored by the Federation of Modern Painters and Sculptors. Panel members are John Canaday, Albert Christ-Janer, Hubert Crehan, and Katharine Kuh, with Henry Botkin as moderator.
Official records containing project proposals; applications; final reports; and correspondence concerning the Pan-American Union.
Programs of plays produced by the FTP in Connecticut, 1936-1937; and lists, press clippings, and photographs regarding the work of Gertrude DonDero.
Correspondence, a diary, photographs, writings, exhibition catalogs, and sketchbooks.
REEL D301: Six sketchbooks, 1927-1935.
REELS 442-447: 836 letters to Feeley from friends and colleagues; a 53-page diary, 1964; notes; two stories and a song; sketchbooks; photographs of Feeley, his work, and his students at Cooper Union Art School; 143 exhibition catalogs; and clippings.
The scattered papers of painter and educator Dorothy Lubell Feigin measure 0.6 linear feet and date from 1923 to 1969. Found are sketches by Waldo Peirce, biographical material, correspondence, photographs of Feigin and of works of art, scattered printed material, and two mixed-media scrapbooks. Also found are materials regarding the Federation of Modern Painters and Sculptors including correspondence, exhibition records, printed material, and reports.
Series includes illustrated envelopes addressed to Feigin by Waldo Peirce and a print by Gusta and Bertman Hartman. Biographical materials include certificates and professional degrees for Dorothy and Solomon Feigin. Correspondence is with galleries and institutions including the Academy of Allied Artists, Argent Galleries, City of New York Board of Education, the New Gallery Art Club, and the National Academy of Design. Also found are scattered letters from family. Photographs depict Feigin, Feigin in her classroom with students, and works of art. Printed material consists of scattered clippings. Two mixed-media scrapbooks contain letters, photographs of works of art, exhibition announcements, and clippings. One scrapbook is dismantled.
Also found are records concerning the Federation of Modern Painters and Sculptors, focusing on when Feigin served as treasurer of the organization. These files include correspondence from artists including Reuben Tam and Harold Weston concerning membership; printed material from exhibitions and clippings; an exhibition file including photographs for the 17th annual exhibition (1957); and treasurer reports.
Letter to Alfred Neumeyer informing him that he (Feininger) has received a commission to paint a mural for the New York World's Fair; that his son, Lux Feininger, has received a mural commission for a Long Island hotel; and asking Neumeyer if he has received the watercolors sent to him. He also mentions that "my MILL IN SPRING is now hanging."
Correspondence of Irving Feirtag about an addition to Phillip Evergood's house, the designs and a blueprint of which were created by Feirtag in 1948. Three letters, 1970, to Feirtag from Evergood are about paintings given to Feirtag as payment for the addition.
The letters of Los Angeles gallerist Rosamund Felsen measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1968-1977. Included are sixteen letters and two postcards, all but three of which are from Jasper Johns. The others are from Ellsworth Kelly, Al Ruppersberg, and Bob P. The warm casual letters from Johns describe the artist's interest in birds, gardens, and weather. He also discusses drawings and upcoming exhibitions. Folded into the letters are a black and white snapshot of Johns and one of Felsen, in both cases surrounded by others. Also included here is the panty hose box in which Felsen stored these letters.
Sixteen letters and two postcards, all but three of which are from Jasper Johns. The others are from Ellsworth Kelly, Al Ruppersberg, and Bob P. The warm casual letters from Johns give the sense of the artist's interest in birds, gardens, and weather. He also discusses drawings and upcoming exhibitions. Two black and white snapshots are also present.
The scattered papers of Marjorie Martinet measure 0.4 linear feet and date from 1870 to circa 1970. The bulk of the collection consists of letters from Beatrice Fenton to Martinet in which she discusses her love and feelings for Martinet, art, travel, and the memorial for their mutual friend, Emily Clayton Bishop. Also found are letters from others, biographical materials, photographs and negatives, and printed material. Of note are yearbooks from the Marjorie Martinet School of Art.
Biographical materials include an illustrated invitation to a Pennsylvania Academy of Arts Venetian Fete in 1908, A Maryland Institute commencement program, and an advertisement for an outdoor sketch class taught by Martinet. Also found is a copy of the by-laws for the Art Institute of Baltimore, on which are handwritten drafts of text and a design for the Emily Clayton Bishop Memorial. Letters are from Beatrice Fenton and discuss her longtime friendship and deep romantic feelings for Martinet, art, and travel, and her mourning for and memories of their mutual friend, Emily Clayton Bishop. Photo negatives are of unidentified people and landmarks throughout Spain. Printed materials include brochures, clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and three yearbooks from the Marjorie Martinet School of Art.
Correspondence with Ferguson's wives, family and friends, among them political cartoonist for The Militant, Laura Gray, ceramist Cleo Bell, and mathematician Frederick Rodney Holt, one of the founders of Apple Computers; photographs of Ferguson, his family, his sculptures and reliefs, and studio pictures; several issues of The Militant and the International Socialist Review; minutes from meetings of various socialist and civil rights organizations; and printed material.
The papers of painter and printmaker Hortense Ferne date from 1840 to 1965 and measure 0.2 linear feet. This small collection consists of letters to Hortense Ferne, her collection of autographs of artists, and exhibition catalogs. Also found are letters to art collector Moses Tanenbaum, Ferne's father.
Series consists of letters to Hortense Ferne, her collection of autographs of artists, and exhibition catalogs. Also found are letters to Moses Tanenbaum, Ferne's father.
Ferne's correspondence includes letters from John Taylor Arms, William Auerbach-Levy, Harriet Bowdoin, Eugenie Castello, Edward Caswell, Frank S. Chase, Samuel Fleisher, William Glackens, Francis Jones, Lewis Miller Kremp, Louis Kronberg, John Lodge, Thomas Moran, Leon J. Obermayer, Harry Roseland, Victor Rosewater, Katherine Schlater, Major General C. P. Summerall, and C. H. White.
Moses Tanenbaum's letters are from Jules Breton, Jules Dupre, E. Fromontin, Frank Russell Green, G. Haguette, Edward L. Henry, Frederick James, Francis Jones, J. M. Jones, Stephen Massett, Don Mitchell, Thomas Moran, Henry Mosler, Arthur Parton, Henry P. Smith, A. F. Tait, Wadsworth Thomas, James G. Tyler, and Jules Worms.
Autographs are of W. H. Beard, Albert Bierstadt, Carl L. Brandt, Frederic E. Church, Roscoe Conkling, C. Daubigny, J. A. Froude, Harlan Hamlin, J.A. Hendricks, Thomas Wentworth Higginson, Benson J. Lossing, Matthews, Edmund C. Stedman, Leopold Stokowski, M. R. White, and Ignacio Zuloaga.
Exhibition catalogs are for exhibits held at the Philadelphia Society of Etchers.
Correspondence, notes, photographs and printed materials concern Fiene's painting, publications and other art-related activities.
REELS 2353-2355: Correspondence (1926-1957) concerns art-related activities and the American Society of Painters, Sculptors and Engravers (1935-1936). A subject file on the Tupperware Art Fund contains applications (1953-1955) and photographs of Fiene painting. Printed material includes clippings (1930-1960) and exhibition catalogs for Paul Fiene (1933), Ernest Fiene (1926-1959) and the American Artists Council (1936). Three scrapbooks (1923-1961) contain clippings, exhibition catalogs and photographs of Fiene and his artworks. Other materials include a resume, an autobiographical account, a 1938 lecture, "Toward New Horizons", delivered at the Art Students League, and Alex Domonkos' (1954) notes on lectures by various artists, including Fiene's discussion of landscape painting.
UNMICROFILMED: Correspondence (1957-1964) concerns art-related activities. Photographs show Fiene, working on the mural in the High School for Fashion Industries, and works of art, including murals for the Interior Department and the council room of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union. Other materials include a manuscript, a typescript and illustrations for Fiene's book COMPLETE GUIDE TO OIL PAINTING (1963-1964), clippings (1940-1964), exhibition catalogs (1964), 2 galley proofs and minutes (1957-1958) from 2 meetings at the National Academy of Design.
ADDITION: Letters from friends, including other artists, 1932-1965; passport and membership cards; financial records, consisting of banking records, invoices and receipts, insurance policies, and records of investments; and a few printed items and photographs.
The exhibition records of the Contemporary Study Wing of the Finch College Museum of Art measure 20.9 linear feet and date from 1943 to 1975, with the bulk of records dating from the period its galleries were in operation, from 1964 to 1975. Over two-thirds of the collection consists of exhibition files, which contain a wide range of documentation including artist files, checklists, correspondence, writings, photographs, interviews, numerous films and videos, artist statements, printed materials, and other records. Also found within the collection are administrative records of the museum, artist files, and papers of the Contemporary Wing's director and curator, Elayne Varian, which were produced outside of her work at Finch College.
Administrative records include records relating to the general operation of the Contemporary Wing concerning fundraising, professional associations, budget, contact information for artists, donors, and lenders to exhibitions. Also found are records of the permanent collection of artworks acquired by the museum between 1964 and 1975 from contemporary artists and collectors of contemporary art.
Artist files contain basic biographical information on over 150 contemporary artists, with scattered correspondence, photographs, technical information about artworks, artist statements, and other writings. Artist files also include an incomplete run of artist questionnaires gathered by the New York Arts Calendar Annual for 1964.
Elayne Varian's personal papers include curatorial records, a course schedule and syllabus related to her teaching activities, and various writings. Curatorial projects documented in Varian's papers include three programs produced outside of Finch College, including a juried show at the New York State Fair in 1967, a film series at Everson Museum of Syracuse University, and an exhibition at Guild Hall in East Hampton in 1973. Several of Varian's writing projects involved interviews, which are also found in this series in the form of sound recordings and transcripts. Interview-based writing projects include individual profiles on Brian O'Doherty and Babette Newberger, and interviews conducted for an article on the artist-dealer relationship published in Art in America (January 1970). Dealers interviewed for the latter project include Leo Castelli, Virginia Dwan, John Gibson, Richard Feigen, Arnold Glimcher, Fred Mueller, Martha Jackson, Sidney Janis, Betty Parsons, Seth Siegelaub, and Howard Wise. Artists interviewed include Roy Lichtenstein, Adolph Gottlieb, and Charles Ross.
Exhibition files, comprising the bulk of the collection, document exhibitions held in the Contemporary Wing during its existence from 1964 to 1975. Types of records found in the series include exhibition catalogs, correspondence, loan agreements, lists, contact information, insurance valuations of artworks, photographs, biographical information on artists, clippings, posters, press releases, and other publicity materials. In addition to the rich textual and photographic records found for exhibitions, numerous audiovisual recordings are also found, some of which were made in preparation for an exhibition, some document mounted exhibitions, and others are artworks themselves or components of artworks exhibited in the galleries. Interviews with artists, dealers, and others involved in exhibitions include Alan Sonfist, Mel Bochner, Hans Richter, Ruth Richards, James Brooks and Janet Katz, Margaret Benyon, Irwin Hollander (transcript only), David Anderson, Doris Chase, Will Insley, Michael Kirby, Les Levine, Ursula Meyer, Brian O'Doherty, Charles Ross, Tony Smith, Douglas Davis, Jane Davis, Russ Connor, Les Levine, Michael Mazur, Paul Gedeohn, and physicists Lloyd G. Cross, Allyn Z. Lite, and Gerald Thomas Bern Pethick. Video artworks, recordings of performances, or components of multimedia artworks are found by artists Vito Acconci, Kathy Dillon, Douglas Davis, Dan Graham, Les Levine, Bruce Nauman, Michael Netter, Eric Siegel, and Robert Whitman. A film of the Art in Process: The Visual Development of a Structure (1966) exhibition is found, and video recordings of artists Lynda Benglis, Michael Singer, and Sam Wiener form as part of the documentation for the Projected Art: Artists at Work (1971) exhibition.
Series includes records relating to the operations of the Contemporary Study Wing of the Finch College Museum, including correspondence, pamphlets, brochures, flyers, notes, clippings, contact information, records related to grant applications and grant projects, records relating to the museum's permanent collection, photographs, and research files on a variety of subjects. Also found is a radio interview from 1968 on one sound tape reel with the Director of the Contemporary Study Wing, Elayne Varian, about the mission of the gallery and its exhibition program.
Permanent collection records include letters of acknowledgement to artists and other donors for donations of artworks spanning the life of the gallery, lists of acquisitions, and photographs of artworks, many of which are negatives. Note that the list of permanent collection artworks listed by artist only lists works acquired between 1964 and 1966.
Oversized material housed in Box 22, folder 1.
Records relate to non-artwork gifts.
Oversized Item in OV 23, folder 1.
Interview conducted by Bernard Murphy, broadcast by WNYC in New York, NY.
Contains correspondence detailing provenance and insurance valuation for Dyer's series of paintings of the Acropolis, then held by Wesleyan Library.
Oversized material housed in Box 22, folder 1.
Series includes a group of files created at the Contemporary Study Wing to be both a study collection for students of museum practice and a resource for exhibition planning, which are filed under the general artist files heading. The general artist files also contain documents related to contemporary artists whose works were in the Finch College Museum's permanent collection, and printed material on artists who were of interest to Elayne Varian. Many of the general artist files contain only one or two items, usually a résumé, exhibition announcement, and/or photograph of an artwork. A few of the files contain more substantial documentation, including multiple images of artworks, photographs of artists, correspondence, instructions regarding complex artworks, posters, publications by the artist, or artist's statements. Files for Jeff Dell contain 3 motion picture film reels (16 mm), two of which also have two videocassette access copies each (VHS and Digital Betacam). Where present, significant materials in the general artist files are noted in the folder listing.
Also found is an incomplete run of questionnaires for the 1964 New York Arts Calendar Annual, which were completed by artists and often accompanied with printed material relating to exhibitions scheduled for that year. A letter explaining the donation of these records to the Contemporary Study Wing for their research value is filed with this set of records. Questionnaires are found for artists with surnames beginning with A through E, and M through S. The rest of the Arts Calendar questionnaires are not found in the collection. Occasionally artists represented in this part of the series also have a file in the general artist files.
Includes several photographs of performance works, including a typescript entitled "Private Piece for Elayne Varian" (1969).
Includes multiple postcards from Antin's "100 Boots" piece, as well as photographs and printed material related to other works.
Oversized item housed in box 22, folder 2.
Oversized item in box 22, folder 2
Contains a copy of The Baby Book by Brainard and Kenward Elmslie
Oversized material housed in OV 23, folder 2
Oversized item housed in box 22, folder 2
Contains extensive correspondence between Chase and Elayne Varian. Oversized clippings housed in box 22, folder 2
Contains extensive correspondence between Chase and Elayne Varian.
Oversized poster moved to box 22, folder 2
Contains correspondence with the Estate of Joseph Cornell following Cornell's death.
Oversized poster with handwritten note housed in OV 23, folder 3
Contains letters, descriptions of artworks, photocopied typescript theoretical writings, clippings, and press releases.
Contains letters and a sketch by the artist
Oversized poster housed in OV 23, folder 4.
Contains photocopied typescript, "Excerpts from a work journal on flying sculpture"
Contains correspondence and typescript entitled "Instructions for the care of molded cloth sculptures."
Contains slides, photos, resumes, and published material from Stephen Greene, Phoebe Helman, Richard Stankiewicz, Richard Miller, Anthonyh Padovano, Charles Cajori, and Lennart Anderson, as well as a letter proposing an exhibition
Contains correspondence, clippings, slides, photographs, printed material, and a reference statement written by Elayne Varian
Oversized magazine article housed in box 22, folder 2
Contains "Something Else Newsletter," 1968 April
Contains correspondence and photographs of artwork; also a letter and photographs from Harry Weisburd
Contains letters
Contains mail art, clippings, letters, and photocopied writings
Contains correspondence and clippings regarding "Fur Show"
Contains clippings, press releases, photographs, and slides
Contains correspondence regarding gifts and works on loan to the museum
Contains photographs of artworks
Contains a letter from the artist
Contains clippings, press releases, photographs, printed material, and poster. Oversized poster and magazine housed in OV 23, folder 5.
Contains photographs of the artist
Oversized poster housed in OV 23, folder 6.
Contains letters and photocopied writings
Contains slides.
Contains instructions and technical information about light/motion work "Hegira"
Oversized poster in OV 23, folder 7.
Contains correspondence, photographs, and a typescript artist's statement
Contains correspondence with Schillinger's widow, Frances Schillinger
Contains a letter, photographs, and a magazine article
Contains correspondence
Contains a letter from the artist
Contains photographs of installation
Contains photographs
Contains correspondence, contact sheets and instructions for dismantling sculpture
Contains letter from the artist. Oversized poster housed in box 22, folder 2.
Also contains a form for the artist Leonid
Series consists of records related to curatorial, teaching, and writing projects of Elayne Varian that were not undertaken in her role at Finch College.
Curatorial projects include the exhibition Art Today (1967), a juried show at the New York State Fair; a series of art film screenings held at the Everson Museum of Art of Syracuse University, and an exhibition at Guild Hall in East Hampton featuring local artists over the age of 60.
A single file of teaching materials consists of a syllabus and course schedule.
The bulk of writings in the series consist of recorded interviews, with corresponding transcripts, of art dealers and artists, which were conducted for a 1970 article Varian wrote for Art in America called "New Dealing," on the subject of artist-dealer relationships. Interviews, listed individually in the folder list, are on 11 sound tape reels and are typically around 40 minutes in duration. Photographs related to that project are also found depicting Virginia Dwan, Martha Jackson, and Leo Castelli with Andy Warhol. Other writing projects include published interviews with artists Brian O'Doherty and Babette Newburger, a manual on museum security, and an article on patented art. The original interview with Newburger is found on one sound tape reel with an edited transcript.
Recording of Gottlieb interview is found on sound tape reel with Charles Ross interview
Recording of Lichtenstein interview is found on sound tape reel with Charles Ross interview
Sound tape reel also contains Gottlieb and Lichtenstein interviews, whose transcripts are filed under their names.
Contains a negative of a photograph of Virginia Dwan taken by Nancy Smithson, photographs of Martha Jackson with Claire Falkenstein, Paul Jenkins, and Antoni Tapies, and slides of Andy Warhol with Leo Castelli.
Contains notes from an interview with Sue Fuller
A published interview with Newberger conducted by Elaine Varian
Series contains records documenting the creation and public exhibition of shows at the Contemporary Wing galleries from its inception in 1964 to its close in 1975, as well as records for several exhibitions that were in development but not yet realized when the college closed. Documentation includes artist files, checklists, correspondence, writings, exhibition catalogs, photographs, interviews, films and videos documenting exhibitions or created for exhibition, artist statements, loan documentation, insurance documentation, and publicity in the form of press releases, exhibition announcements, clippings, and posters. A run of exhibition catalogs filed at the beginning of the series represent about half of the exhibitions held in the Contemporary Wing. Catalogs are also found filed under each exhibition's title for most of the exhibitions in the series, often annotated with insurance values or in various drafts.
Unlike the artist files in series 2, artist files specific to exhibitions tend to contain richer documentation, including writings and original correspondence with the artist, artist statements, photographs, or information about particular artworks.
Interviews are found on 9 sound cassettes and 14 sound tape reels scattered in the exhibition files, all conducted by Elayne Varian and relating to the exhibition at hand. They include Alan Sonfist ("Alan Sonfist: Time Landscape"), Mel Bochner ("Art in Process IV), Hans Richter ("Hans Richter Retrospective"), Ruth Richards on Hugo Weber ("Hugo Weber Retrospective), James Brooks and Janet Katz ("James Brooks Retrospective," transcript only), Physicists Lloyd G. Cross, Allyn Z. Lite, and Gerald Thomas Bern Pethick ("N-Dimensional Space), Margaret Benyon ("N-Dimensional Space"), Irwin Hollander (transcript only, "Prints from Hollander's Workshop"), David Anderson ("The Private Collection of Martha Jackson"), Doris Chase ("Projected Art: Artists at Work"), and Will Insley, Michael Kirby, Les Levine, Ursula Meyer, Brian O'Doherty, Charles Ross, and Tony Smith ("Schemata 7"); Douglas Davis, Jane Davis, and Russ Connor ("Talk-Out!"); Les Levine ("The Troubles"); Michael Mazur and Paul Gedeohn ("Two Aspects of An Illusion"). An additional sound recording describing the installation and content of the exhibition "Towers" is found on one sound tape reel.
In addition to the recorded interviews, a number of moving image recordings are found. The video in Artists' Videotape Performances (1971) is a complex mix of recordings, ranging from simple, single-channel video works that were played in the gallery, to components of multi-channel installations, artifacts of interactive sound and video installations, and recordings of performances put on in the gallery. Other motion pictures found in the series include videos of artists Sam Weiner, Lynda Benglis, and Michael Singer working in Projected Art: Artists at Work (1971), and film of the installed exhibition Art in Process: The Visual Development of a Structure (1966). In total, motion pictures in this series are on 19 videoreels (1/2 inch), 2 film reels (16 mm, with VHS and Digital Betacam videocassette access copies).
Other artworks or components of artworks found include original writings by Dan Graham in Art in Series (1967-1968) and mail art by Richard Merkin and Ray Johnson in Art in Process: The Visual Development of a Collage (1967). Artists books found in the series include Statements by Lawrence Weiner and Identikit by Jim Brodey, found in Lynda Benglis' artist file; both of these publications are with records for Art in Process IV (1969-1970). Schematic drawings, floor plans, and installation instructions are found for Robert Morris for Art in Process V (1972) Douglas Davis and several other artists for Artists' Videotape Performances (1971), Michael Kirby for Schemata 7 (1967), Stan Vanderbeek for Projected Art (1966-1967), and various works for N-Dimensional Space (1970).
Oversized photographs housed in box 22, folder 3.
Oversized galleys housed in box 22, folder 3
See also loan documentation for additional correspondence.
Oversized lists in box 22, folder 3
Oversized clippings housed in OV 23, folder 8.
Oversized clippings housed in OV 23, folder 9.
Oversized clipping housed in box 22, folder 3
Oversized clippings housed in OV 23, folder 10.
Oversized clippings housed in OV 23, folder 11.
Contains handwritten artist statements by Jim Dine, Grace Hartigan, George Ortman, Jack Sonenberg, Reva Urban, and Jack Youngerman.
Oversized posters housed in OV 24
Oversized posters housed in OV 23, folder 12.
Contains correspondence and mail art by Ray Johnson.
Contains mail art by the artist.
Oversized poster housed in OV 24
Oversized poster in OV 24.
Contains the poetry chapbook "Identikit" by Jim Brodey.
Contains an interview of Bochner conducted by Elayne Varian, found on one sound tape reel with accompanying transcript. Also contains photocopied writings on Bochner's measurement pieces, photographs of the artist with his work, and an open letter of complaint regarding the installation of a work at the New York Cultural Center.
Contains installation instructions.
Contains a copy of the artist's book, Statements (1968)
Oversized galleys housed in OV 24.
Contains photocopy of typed transcript of a discussion involving Carl Andre, Dan Graham, Lawrence Wiener and others. Also contains a photocopy typescript draft of an essay by Dan Graham entitled "Subject Matter I."
Oversized clippings in OV 24.
Contains a variety of unattributed writings including poetry, descriptions of work, and a photocopy typescript of an essay by Mel Bochner entitled "The Serial Attitude."
Contains three signed, typescript works including "Discrete Scheme without Memory," "Exclusion Principle," and "Poem."
Oversized photographs in OV 24.
Oversized poster in OV 24.
Oversized poster filed in OV 24.
Oversized photograph housed in OV 24.
See also correspondence for additional instructions from artists for the installation of their artworks. Oversized notes on Douglas Davis installation housed in OV 24
Negatives are duplicates of contact sheets in previous folder.
Oversized Magazine housed in OV 24.
Multi channel closed circuit video performance.
Recorded artifact of interactive video and sound installation.
Multi-channel closed circuit video performance.
Multi channel video and sound installation.
Recorded artifact of interactive multimedia installation.
Oversized galleys housed in box 22, folder 4.
Oversized clippings housed in OV 24.
Oversized photograph in box 22, folder 4.
Oversized flyer in box 22, folder 4.
Oversized galleys housed in box 22, folder 4.
Oversized clipping in box 22, folder 4.
Oversized item in box 22, folder 5.
Oversized galleys in box 22, folder 5.
Oversized clipping in box 22, folder 5.
See also under research for additional correspondence with prospective artists for the exhibition.
Oversized clipping housed in box 22, folder 5.
Oversized posters in OV 23, folder 13.
Oversized clippings housed in box 22, folder 5.
Oversized catalog draft housed in OV 25.
Oversized clippings in box 22, folder 5.
Oversized clippings housed in box 22, folder 5.
Oversized sketch in box 22, folder 5.
Contains a transcript and sound recoridng of an interview with Ruth Richards.
Oversized list in OV 25.
Oversized galleys housed in OV 25.
Oversized clipping in Box 22, folder 5.
See also research file for additional correspondence with Brooks.
Transcript only.
Oversized schematic drawings in OV 25.
Oversized clippings in OV 25
With Lloyd G. Cross, Allyn Z. Lite, and Gerald Thomas Bern Pethick
Oversized photographs in box 22, folder 6
Possibly by G. Pethick
Oversized poster in box 22, folder 6
Oversized poster in box 22, folder 6.
Includes a floor plan for a proposed, untitled, multi-channel installation work
Motion picture film stored separately in film can numbered FC 26
Oversized photocopied clippings housed in OV 25.
Oversized clippings housed in OV 25.
Oversized handwritten statement signed "Matta" in box 22, folder 6.
Oversized clippings in box 22, folder 6.
Oversized pamphlet in box 22, folder 6.
Oversized clipping and poster in OV 25
Sound tape reel contains part 1 of interview, and sound cassette contains part 2.
Oversized poster in OV 25
The papers of sculptors Jud Fine and Barbara McCarren measure 16.7 linear feet and 0.345 Gigabytes, and date from circa 1968-2009. The majority of the collection falls into project files, with other series including correspondence, writings, personal business, printed material, photographic material, and artwork.
Correspondence is mostly professional in nature and is largely from Jud Fine's early career in the late sixties through the 1970s. There is also come McCarren/Fine correspondence starting in the 1990s as well as some correspondence regarding Barbara McCarren's solo career.
The writings series is comprised primarily of Jud Fine's writing practice associated with his earlier career, including notes and journal entries, lectures by Fine, as well as manuscripts for catalog essays and artist publications, an interview from 1984, and writings on Fine by others.
The personal business series includes exhibition files as well as gallery files containing sale and consignment paperwork, as well as daily business of the studio, primarily pertaining to Jud Fine's earlier career, with some documents pertaining to Barbara McCarren's solo career from the 1990s on.
Project files document various public art works and commissions taken on or applied for by McCarren/Fine, as well as solo projects that date before and after their formal collaboration in 1996. These documents include correspondence, contracts, reports, meeting minutes, renderings and other plans, notes, photographic material and research material, some of which is in digital formats.
Printed material includes various promotional materials for McCarren/Fine and solo projects for Barbara McCarren and Jud Fine, as well as a graphic design magazine publication, and a monographic catalog for a Jud Fine exhibition from 1974.
Photographic material includes miscellaneous snapshots and snapshot albums, some of Fine and McCarren, in the studio and with artist friends, as well as an untitled album with study images of a strelitzia plant.
Artwork includes a single, unsigned painted work on canvas that has been cut awat from the frame or support.
Correspondence is mostly professional in nature and is largely from Jud Fine's early career in the late sixties through the 1970s. There is also come McCarren/Fine correspondence starting in the 1990s as well as some correspondence regarding Barbara McCarren's solo career.
The writings series is comprised primarily of Jud Fine's writing practice associated with his earlier career, including notes and journal entries, lectures by Fine, as well as manuscripts for catalog essays and artist publications, an interview from 1984, and writings on Fine by others.
The personal business series includes exhibition files as well as gallery files containing sale and consignment paperwork, as well as daily business of the studio, primarily pertaining to Jud Fine's earlier career, with some documents pertaining to Barbara McCarren's solo career from the 1990s on.
Project files document various public art works and commissions taken on or applied for by McCarren/Fine, as well as solo projects that date before and after their formal collaboration in 1996. These documents include correspondence, contracts, reports, meeting minutes, renderings and other plans, notes, photographic material and research material, some of which is in digital formats.
Printed material includes various promotional materials for McCarren/Fine and solo projects for Barbara McCarren and Jud Fine, as well as a graphic design magazine publication, and a monographic catalog for a Jud Fine exhibition from 1974.
Photographic material includes miscellaneous snapshots and snapshot albums, some of Fine and McCarren, in the studio and with artist friends, as well as an untitled album with study images of a strelitzia plant.
Artwork includes a single, unsigned painted work on canvas that has been cut away from the frame or support.
Correspondence, clippings, exhibition catalogues, and photographs, both personal and of Fine's work.
The papers of author, consultant, and historian Oscar P. Fitzgerald measure 0.2 linear feet and are dated circa 2000. The collection consists of Fitzgerald's research material on furniture makers that includes over 100 Furniture Maker's Questionnaires from respondents such as Sam Maloof, Garry Knox Bennett, Linda Sue Eastman, Yuko Shimizu, and others about their histories and accomplishments, influences, and marketing and shop practices. Also found in the collection is a paper by Fitzgerald titled "The Movers and Shakers and How They Got There" that was presented to the Furniture Society in Savannah, G.A. in 2004.
Fitzgerald's research material on furniture makers includes over 100 Furniture Maker's Questionnaires from respondents such as Sam Maloof, Garry Knox Bennett, Linda Sue Eastman, Yuko Shimizu, and others about their histories and accomplishments, influences, and marketing and shop practices. Also found in the collection is a paper by Fitzgerald titled "The Movers and Shakers and How They Got There" that was presented to the Furniture Society in Savannah, G.A. in 2004.
Contains a list of participants in the order the questionnaires are arranged within the folders.
Correspondence, writings, printed material, small paintings, drawings, and photographs of Louis Eilshemius collected by Robert K. Fitzgerel. consisting largely of material of the previous collector/owner, William Schack.
Included are letters to William Schack relating to Shack's publication of his biography on Eilshemius, including references to the individual owners and institutions holding Eilshemius's artwork; other correspondents are Robert Tannahill and George L.K. Morris; writings, including self-published material by Eilshemius; promotional cards; and a handwritten play script, The Course of Love. The printed material consists of newspaper clippings about Eilshemius and an extensive group of Eilshemius' letters to the editors of New York dailies. Photographs include nineteenth century images of Eilshemius as a child and his family members and photographs of artists model nudes.
Correspondence, administrative records, personal files, articles, scripts, playbills, clippings, other printed material, and photographs.
Clippings, an exhibition announcement and catalog relating to Fleck's exhibition at Galerie Bernheim Jeune, Paris, 1931; a magazine article about Fleck and the Taos art colony; and Fleck's obituary.
Sketchbooks and drawing copy books of Albert S. and George B. Flint, kept during the last quarter of the 19th century showing trees, birds, and studies in perspective.
Foote writes from New Almaden Calif., to the publishers William F. Gill & Co. to discuss an illustration she is working on for them.
Correspondence, printed material, photographs, and receipts.
Files regarding compiling an art collection for the new bank building, including Alexander Calder's "Eagle." Files contain correspondence, art committee reports, photographs of Calder's work, dedication ceremony speeches, catalogs, clippings and biographical material.
Art collection acquisition files containing clippings, press releases, receipts, and photographs of Calder's "Eagle" installation.
The records of the Boston picture frame company Foster Brothers measure 13 linear feet and date from 1875 to 1973 with the bulk of the material falling between 1893 and 1942. Correspondence, stock records, financial records, writings, miscellaneous business records, printed material, scrapbooks, and photographs document the history of the picture frame company that operated a factory, retail store, and wholesale and mail order businesses between 1893 and 1942. A small number of family papers are included, including items from periods when Foster Brothers was not in business. Scattered throughout the collection are small slips of papers with explanatory notes and background information supplied by the donor, Helen Foster Osborne.
Correspondence mostly concerns routine business with suppliers, distributors, and wholesale and retail customers and is relatively sparse for 1897-1941. Foster Brothers' last year in business, 1942, is well documented and includes letters from S. W. Osborne (Margaret Foster's husband) written while traveling to meet with wholesale clients in cities throughout the Northeast and Midwest.
Stock records include stock cards, inventory records and price lists. Also found are a large number of paper stencils that were used to transfer carving designs to frames, and extensive drawings of frames and moldings including finished, colored drawings by master craftsman C. F. Richter.
Financial records consist mainly of routine accounting records, but also include annual financial reports, orders, and sales records. Among the writings and lists are an unsigned article concerning Foster Brothers' craftsmen and their early use of machinery. Notes include material for a history of mirrors by Helen J. Foster, and "The Art of Framing" by John R. Foster.
The majority of printed material relates to advertising and consists of catalogs and brochures about frames, mirrors, and published reproductions. Eight volumes of scrapbooks also contain printed material consisting of advertising, brochures and catalogs, form letters, and reproductions of miniatures and silhouettes published by Foster Brothers.
Family papers consist of a small number of personal papers of the founders, John Roy and Stephen Bartlett Foster, and also of Helen Foster Osborne (John's daughter). They include Foster Oborne's 1973 reminiscence of having her portrait painted by William Paxton in 1923, John R. Foster's personal account book and Foster Osborne's correspondence with Ernest Donnelley concerning the sale of printing plates and dies from the miniature reproduction business.
Photographs are of founders John Roy and Stephen Bartlett Foster, some of their employees, and early pictures of the first Foster Brothers frame factory on Cambridge Street.
Business correspondence with suppliers, distributors, and wholesale and retail customers concerns routine matters and special orders. The correspondence dated 1897-1941 is relatively sparse and primarily concerns copyright of artwork reproduced by Foster Brothers that was sold, framed, in gift shops, department and furniture stores.
The year 1942, the company's last year in business, is well documented. Of particular interest are letters from S. W. Osborne (Margaret Foster's husband) written while traveling to meet with wholesale clients in cities throughout the Northeast and Midwest.
This series contains stock cards, inventory records, and price lists in addition to blueprints, drawings, and stencils and designs for wood carving.
Stock cards (mostly 8" x 10" pieces of mat board) describe merchandise produced or sold by Foster Brothers, including frames for pictures and mirrors, candlesticks, glove boxes, moldings, painted glass and stands. Each card contains at least one image (drawing, photograph, or printed reproduction) of the item and its stock or style number, and sometimes notes dimensions and prices. Some loose images are interfiled with the cards.
A large number of paper stencils that were used to transfer carving designs to frames survive, although many are fragile. Many stencils are annotated with the corresponding stock or style number; other designs for woodcarving are merely drawn on paper. In addition, there are extensive drawings of frames and moldings, loose and in bound volumes, including finished, colored drawings by master craftsman C. F. Richter.
One volume titled "Cost on Mirrors" (1929) analyzes the amount of time needed to carve, gild, and polish frames, the cost of materials, and prices of frames #1001-1308.
(see also BV 13)
(see also BVs 14-15)
see also OVs 23-24, BV 13
(see also Box 5, BV 14; includes boxes, stands, letterhead design, printed reproductions; some loose items)
Financial records consist mainly of accounting records, but also include annual financial reports, orders, and sales records. There are relatively few records before the early 1900s.
(see: BV 16)
(see: BV 17)
(see: BV 18)
Writings consist of articles, lists and notes. An unsigned article concerns Foster Brothers' craftsmen and their early use of machinery. Notes include material for a history of mirrors by Helen J. Foster, and "The Art of Framing" by John R. Foster.
Included in this series are copyright and trademark information, a building permit, and records relating to an exhibition of etchings by Dorsey Potter Tyson held at Foster Brothers.
The majority of printed material relates to advertising and consists of catalogs and brochures about frames, mirrors, and published reproductions. Unless otherwise noted, all items were produced by or are about Foster Brothers. Scrapbooks in Series 7 contain additional printed material.
(see: OV 25)
see also OV 25
8 volumes of scrapbooks contain printed material including clippings, advertising material, brochures and catalogs, form letters, and reproductions of miniatures and silhouettes published by Foster Brothers.
(see BV 20)
(see BV 21)
(See: Box 12)
(see BV 22)
Family papers consist of a small number of personal papers of Foster Brothers founders, John Roy and Stephen Bartlett Foster, and also of Helen Foster Osborne (John's daughter). A letter from Edward Everett Hale, 1889, accepting an invitation addressed to Mr. Foster could have been intended for either Stephen or John Foster. Also included are a silhouette of John R. Foster cut by Doris Burdick, and his personal account book with some brief diary entries that pre-date the establishment of Foster Brothers by more than a decade. Of particular interest is Helen Foster Osborne's 1973 reminiscence of having her portrait painted by William Paxton in 1923. Helen Foster Osborne's correspondence with Ernest Donnelley, post-dating the closing of Foster Brothers, concerns the sale of printing plates and dies from the miniature reproduction business.
Photographs are of the Foster brothers, John Roy and Stephen Bartlett Foster. One portrait of each is in a "Keepsake Frame," a popular item designed and manufactured by Foster Brothers. Other people appearing in photographs are employees, most of whom are unidentified. Also included are pictures of the Foster Brothers' first frame factory on Cambridge Street, picturing the exterior of the factory and the "fitting room."
Papers concerning murals by Foster, including a letter, 1938, and memo, 1937, from Franklin D. Roosevelt to Edward Bruce regarding Foster's murals for the post office in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. (completed under the Section of Painting and Sculpture of the Treasury Department, 1938).
Also includes clippings and photographs concerning Foster's W.P.A. post office murals in Cranford, Freehold, and Millburn, N.J., and in Poughkeepsie, N.Y.; and an autobiographical speech about portrait painting, "Reflections of an Artist," 1982.
Biographical material, business records concerning sales, loans, and exhibitions, undated and 1943-1981; writings, including lecture notes, articles and drafts, undated and 1938-1953; correspondence with professors, art and ceramic institutions, friends and colleagues, undated, and 1935-1977; printed material, including exhibition catalogs, announcements, and clippings, undated and 1938-1989; and photographs, slides, and negatives of Foster's work.
Sketchbooks, photographs and slides, correspondence, writings, art works, monologue and financial material.
REELS 1995-1998: Biographical information; manuscripts and drafts for articles; contracts for sculpture commissions; clippings and catalogs; 12 sketchbooks; sketches and drawings; correspondence and clippings relating to the commissioned altar piece for St. Augustine's Catholic Church in Houston.
REEL 3126: Material relating to the commissioned sculpture for the entrance to the Houston zoo, including correspondence, clippings, financial records, sketches, photographs and a file on the Art in Public Places-Arts Council of Houston.
REEL 3752: Transcript of a monologue by Fowler regarding his sculpture now in Temple Emmanuel, and portions of a conversation between Bob West and Fowler. (Original tapes - 2 cassettes, are in the collection).
UNMICROFILMED: Thirty-nine slides of the Houston zoo sculpture, 10 etchings, a drawing, and a print.
Letters to Fox from artists in response to Fox's invitation to serve as jurors for the Cheltenham Art Centre's annual exhibitions. Correspondents include Milton Avery, Isabel Bishop, Al Blaustein, Philip Evergood, Lee Gatch, Adolph Gottlieb, John Heliker, Joseph Hirsch, Morris Kantor, Dong Kingman, Karl Knaths, David Levine, Loren MacIver, William Palmer, Beverly Pepper, Gregorio Prestopino, Ben Shahn, James Johnson Sweeney, Jack Tworkov, Robert Vickrey and Max Weber. Also included is a clipping on Weber.
Correspondence, New Deal materials, exhibition and financial records.
Two brief biographies by Frances Foy for "Leading American Women"; Illinois Academy of Fine Arts membership cards for Foy and Dalstrom; correspondence, with the Art Institute of Chicago and other museums, local galleries, dealers, and arts organizations such as the Renaissance Society, American Federation of Arts, and Chicago Society of Etchers; a letter of 3/26/34 from fellow artist Rifka Angel regarding selection of artists for Public Works of Art Projects; New Deal art project materials, including correspondence about a mural commemorating Marian Anderson's 1939 concert at Lincoln Memorial and with federal agencies,concerning commissions, contracts, vouchers, drawings and blueprints for projects, announcements, speeches, and articles on the government art programs.
Exhibition records include receipts, loan agreements, checklists, and shipping forms. Financial records include invoices, pricelists, purchase orders, receipts, remittances, and vouchers from private customers. Printed materials include news clippings, brochures, advertisements from art supply companies; articles on exhibitions, newsletters from arts organizations, announcements and catalogs of exhibitions, and a copy of Dali's "Declaration of the Independence of the Imagination and the Rights of Man to His Own Madness" 1939.
The papers of art critic and historian Alfred Victor Frankenstein measure 19.1 linear feet and date from 1875 to 1985. The bulk of the collection consists of Frankenstein's research and writing files on American painting, particularly artists working in the nineteenth-century. There are extensive files on artists John Haberle, William Michael Harnett, and William Sidney Mount. The collection also includes biographical material, correspondence, general writings and notes, professional activities files, personal business records, printed materials, photographs, and unidentified sound recordings.
Biographical materials include awards, museum passes from the 1970s, school records, and a scrapbook documenting Frankenstein's career at the San Francisco Chronicle. Also found is his father's medical school diploma.
Largely professional in nature, Frankenstein's correspondence is with galleries, museums and institutions, colleges and universities, as well as art historians and museum colleagues including Paul Jenkins, Stanton MacDonald-Wright, and Thomas E. Ripley.
General writings are on subjects such as music, art, California, and the Ronald P. Murdock art collection. It is likely that some writings may be drafts for articles that later appeared in the San Francisco Chronicle. Also found are three notebooks, a recorded interview, recorded lectures by Frankenstein and by others.
The bulk of the collection consists of Frankenstein's extensive research files on American sill-life painting in the nineteenth-century. Research topics focus primarily on artists John Haberle (including sketches by Haberle), William Michael Harnett, William Sidney Mount, and John Frederick Peto; however, some files are found for collectors, dealers, and subjects. Files are found both for the research and writing of Frankenstein's books, After the Hunt (1953) and The World of Copley: 1738-1815 (1970). Contents of the research files vary but many contain correspondence, photographs, notes and writings, provenance research, printed materials, and photocopied and original primary documents. Additional research files are also found in Series 5, Exhibition Files.
Files concerning exhibitions curated or organized by Frankenstein include Artist Self-Portraits (1974) at the National Gallery of Art, an exhibition at the California Palace of the Legion of Honor, and the World's Fair Exposition exhibition, Our Land, Our Sky Our Water: an Exhibition of American and Canadian Art (1974). Files contain loan agreements, gallery plans, photographs, writings, correspondence, and printed materials.
Frankenstein's professional activities files include material about his job as a music critic at the San Francisco Chronicle, and records documenting his participation in the American Arts Alliance and the San Francisco Arts Commission. Also found are scattered student writings, lecture notes, and some correspondence from his teaching position at the University of California, Berkeley.
An appraisal for a Joseph Decker work, the estate records of Sylvia Frankenstein, general receipts for purchases and shipping records, and vehicle ownership records comprise Frankenstein's personal business records.
Printed materials include clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, magazines, and blank postcards. Also found are eight commercial audio recordings, including a musical piece by Charles Ives on cassette, and six phonograph records that are likely of music. A cassette entitled "Heritage of American Art" may be from an exhibition of the same title held at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City in 1975.
Personal photographs include snapshots of Frankenstein with his family and portraits of him, as well as a photocopy of a family photo album. The bulk of the photographs are of artwork.
There are six unidentified sound recordings.
Found are awards, passes for various museums and institutions, an alumni directory from the Francis W. Parker school, and a mixed media scrapbook which concerns Frankenstein's career with the San Francisco Chronicle. Also found is his father, Victor Frankenstein's diploma from medical school.
Correspondence primarily concerns professional activities, research, and general inquiries. Letters are from the Downtown Gallery (Edith Halpert) and other galleries, institutions, museums, colleges and universities. Correspondents include Paul Jenkins, Stanton McDonald-Wright, Thomas E. Ripley, and numerous art historians and museum curators. A letter to Frankenstein from Stanton Macdonald-Wright dated January 8, 1972, discusses Synchromism, Orphism, and the difference between the two groups, making reference to the work of Robert Delaunay and Morgan Russell.
General writings include three notebooks, writings and recorded lectures by Frankenstein about music, art, or both, California, and the Ronald P. Murdock art collection. There are written entries to the Dictionary of American Biography, drafts of articles (likely for the San Francisco Chronicle), and copies of published articles. Works by others include eight lectures concerning early Northern California art recorded on three cassettes, and a cassette tape of an interview by C. Hoover.
General writings do not include manuscripts for Frankenstein's books or exhibition catalogs. These are found in Series 4, Research Files and Series 5, Exhibition Files, reflecting the original order of the papers.
The bulk of the papers consist of Frankenstein's research and project files. For the most part, the files retain the original folder titles and reflect either artist's name or the names of dealers, collectors, general subjects, and a few named project files. There is extensive research material on artists Karel Appel, Christo, John F. Francis, Richard LaBarre Goodwin, John Haberle, William Michael Harnett, William Sidney Mount, and John Frederick Peto, among others. Research material concerning Frankenstein's book After the Hunt (1953) is found within the folders for William Henry Harnett. And manuscript drafts of The World of Copley: 1738-1815 (1970) are found within the research files for William Singleton Copley. There are also files containing research materials and drafts for the exhibition and published catalog, The Reality of Appearance (1970).
There are three project files on Hawaiian painted churches, a panorama of American painting, and the tapestries of Villanueva, New Mexico.
Content of the files vary but often contain correspondence between Frankenstein and collectors, dealers, or museums; photographs and slides of works of art; notebooks, notes and drafts of manuscripts, articles, and books; provenance research information; annotated printed material; and original and xeroxed primary source research material. A few files also contain sketches (notably by John Haberle).
Users should note that there is some overlap between the Research Files in Series 4 and Exhibition Files in Series 5.
Oversized material housed in Box 21, Folder 3
Files are found for a few exhibitions curated by Frankenstein including American Self-Portraits (1974) at the National Portrait Gallery and the 1974 World's Fair Exposition exhibition, Our Land, Our Sky Our Water: an Exhibition of American and Canadian Art. (1974). There are also files for an exhibition at the California Palace of the Legion of Honor, and an American Still Life exhibition in the 1940s.
Files for the exhibition of artist's self-portraits also contain reserach materials on numerous artists, such as Evan Albright, Audubon, Will Barnet, Alexander Calder, John Gadsby Chapman, Chuck Close, Frank Duveneck, Philip Evergood, Robert Fulton, Ignaz Gaugengigl, Paul Georges, Arshile Gorky, Ann Hall, Morris Hirschfield, Edward Hopper, Daniel Huntington, Peter Hurd, David Claypoole Johnston, Olaf Krans, Yasuo Kuniyoshi, Alfred Leslie, Helen Lundeberg, Reginald Marsh, Elizabeth Metcalf, Samuel Morse, John Sloan, Saul Steinberg, Samuel Lovett Waldo, and Tom Wesselmann.
There is a letter from Romare Bearden in the file on the exhibition for the World's Fair Exposition of 1974.
Files generally contain loan agreements, shipping records, photographs, slides, and transparencies of works of art, writings, correspondence between collectors, museums, and dealers and Frankenstein, and printed exhibition catalogs and announcements.
Users should note that some of the research files found in Series 4 also contain materials concerning these exhibitions and others.
Professional activities' files document Frankenstein's membership in the American Arts Alliance and the San Francisco Arts Commission. Also found here is material documenting his role as a music critic. Teaching files for his tenure at University of California, Berkeley are arranged in this series.
Found is an appraisal for a work by Joseph Decker, although it is unclear whether Frankenstein owned the painting; estate records of Sylvia Frankenstein; scattered receipts for everyday purchases and shipping records; and records regarding the purchase and registration of a vehicle.
Printed materials include clippings, copies of congressional resolutions, exhibition announcements and catalogs, issues of magazines and periodicals, museum bulletins, and blank postcards. Also found are eight commercial audio recordings, likely of music, however, a cassette entitled Heritage of American Art may be related to the exhibition of the same name at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1975. Medical conference materials may have belonged to Frankenstein's father.
Oversized material housed in Box 21, Folder 4-5
Photographic material includes black and white and color photographs, copy prints, contact sheets, negatives, slides, and transparencies. There are snapshots and portraits of Alfred Victor Frankenstein and his family, and photocopies of a family photograph album. A majority of the photographs are of artwork by nineteenth and twentieth century artists and were compiled by Frankenstein as part of his research. Additional photographs of works of art may be found in Series 4.
Found are six cassettes and one sound reel, without additional contextual information to further describe the material.
The Emily A. Francis papers, circa 1910s-1969, measure 10 linear feet and include organizational records of Contemporary Arts and affiliated member organization, Collectors of American Art, Inc., founded and directed by Emily A. Francis in 1929 and 1937, respectively. The collection consists of biographical material, foundation and board materials, correspondence, artist files, gallery files, exhibition files, membership materials, business and financial material, printed material, scrapbooks, artwork, and photographs.
Biographical materials include personal financial material and documents relating to Francis' emigration from New Zealand in 1916. Foundation and board materials document the founding and continuing business of Contemporary Arts and Collectors of American Art, Inc. through board books, meetings minutes, by-laws, and articles of incorporation. Correspondence is with New York and international artists, as well as members, institutions, galleries, and board members; and artist files consist of correspondence, scattered photographs, exhibition materials, and consignment and loan agreements. Among the artists featured extensively in correspondence and artist files are Edward Betts, Virginia Cuthbert, Charles Logasa, and Sam Middleton.
Contemporary Arts gallery files document gallery activities through consignment and loan files to institutions and galleries, inventory records, sign-in registers, and event files. Exhibition files include loan agreements, exhibition price lists, and exhibition catalog mock-ups, as well as scattered correspondence. The files also include membership registers, member bulletin mock-ups, and other membership files, as well as financial ledgers with sales and artist accounts, leases and legal documents, receipts and invoices, and other business and financial material. Exhibition announcements and catalogs, member bulletins and annual reports, "The Bulletin of the Collectors of American Art, Inc.," and other printed material, are also included. Fifteen scrapbooks contain clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs relating to Contemporary Arts and Collectors of American Art, Inc. Extensive artwork consists of a charcoal sketch, paintings and paint sketches, and original prints, including woodcuts and serigraphs. Photographs are of Emily A. Francis and others, gallery installation views, events, and artwork.
Biographical materials include documents relating to Emily A. Francis' emigration from New Zealand; personal financial and legal material; professional letters of reference and job search materials; correspondence and documents regarding the financial trust of her mother Emily Rose Jacobs; artist-signed Christmas letter; and biographical sketches and obituary clippings.
Foundation and Board Materials are divided into two subseries. The first subseries includes board of directors meeting minutes, board books, board reports, certificate of incorporation, and other board documents for Contemporary Arts. The second subseries consists of by-laws, certificates of incorporation, board of directors meeting minutes, board books, board reports, draft board letters, distribution lists, committee reports, and materials relating to the Collectors of American Art, Inc.
Correspondence is with artists, including Edward Betts, Isabel Bishop, Louis Bosa, Virginia Cuthbert, Emma Ehrenreich, Roger Holt, Pietro Lazzari, Lawrence Lebduska, Charles Logasa, Alden Mason, Grace Mayer, Sam Middleton, Elliot Orr, Sadie Rosenblum, Stanley Twardowicz, Ellis Wilson, as well as Collectors of American Art, Inc. members, institutions and galleries, board members, and others. Emily A. Francis' personal correspondence is also included.
Includes illustrated letter.
Includes photograph of artist.
Includes illustrated letters.
Includes photographs of artwork.
Includes Bartlett Arkell and Eliot Orr.
Includes Bernadine Custer.
Includes Florence Brillinger and Theodora Kane.
Includes Eugene Higgins and Peggy Bacon.
Includes Louis Bosa, Eliot Orr, and Etienne Ret.
Folder 38 includes Harold Baumbach and Gerard Hordijk.
Includes inquiry card from Hughie Lee-Smith.
Includes Vincent Hartgen and Emmanuel Viviano.
Includes William H. Littlefield, Guy Maccoy, Sadie Rosenblum, and Emmanuel Viviano.
Includes Arnold Herstand, Gerard Hordijk, William H. Littlefield, and Guy Maccoy.
Includes Betty Esman, Lena Gurr, Theo Hios, Alden C. Mason, Jeannette Genius McKean, Lowell Naeve, Virginia Paccassi, and Sadie Rosenblum.
Includes Guy Maccoy.
Includes illustrated letter by Louis Bosa.
Artist files include correspondence, scattered photographs, biographical details, and consignment and loan agreements, and exhibition catalogs and announcements for artists represented by Contemporary Arts and/or part of the Collectors of American Art, Inc. Artists include Edward Betts, Bernice Cross, Lawrence Lebduska, Charles Logasa, Sam Middleton, Phillip Pieck, and Stanley Twardowicz, among others.
Includes original sketches.
Includes snapshots, photographs of artwork, and original sketches.
Includes photographs of artist in studio and artwork.
Contemporary Arts gallery files document gallery activities through loan files with galleries, universities, and museums; consignment agreements; inventory records and ledger; two sign-in books; and publicity and event files. Loan institutions include Albright Art Gallery, Art Institute of Chicago, Brooklyn Museum, Carnegie Institute, George Walter Vincent Smith Art Gallery, M. H. de Young Memorial Museum, Museum of Modern Art, and Whitney Museum of American Art, among others.
Exhibitions held at the Contemporary Arts gallery for individual artists and group shows, as well as annual seasonal traveling exhibitions, are included with exhibition files, and contain correspondence, scattered catalogs and announcements, exhibition catalog mock-ups, and exhibition price lists.
Includes correspondence with Antonio Henrique Amaral.
Member activities with the Collectors of American Art, Inc. and Contemporary Arts are represented in membership files through draft member letters, member bulletin mock-ups, member reports, membership events, paid memberships, and four membership registers.
Business and financial materials are comprised of assorted tax and legal documents; gallery leases; tax exemption status documents; financial reports and bank materials; and receipts and invoices. Also included are 17 financial ledgers consisting of sales, artist accounts, petty cash, and general expenses.
Printed material includes exhibition catalogs and announcements, annual reports, member's bulletins, "Bulletin of Collectors of American Art, Inc.," event programs, clippings, and press releases.
Fifteen scrapbooks include clippings; artist pages of exhibition catalogs, announcements, and related clippings; gallery scrapbooks highlighting annual events, activities, and exhibitions throughout the year; and event scrapbooks concerning a 1931 Contemporary Arts costume ball, and the 1951 Emily A. Francis testimonial dinner.
Artwork is primarily comprised of original prints, including woodcut prints and serigraphs, likely created by artists for the Collectors of American Art, Inc. annual distributions. Also included are a charcoal sketch, paintings, and paint sketches. Artists include Will Barnet, Ben-Zion, Stephen Csoka, Helen Gerardia, José Guerrero, Riva Helfond, Guy Maccoy, Ethel Magafan, Ann Twardowicz, Stanley Twardowicz, and Adja Yunkers, among others.
Includes Ruth Ann and others.
Includes Will Barnet, Selma Bluestein, and others.
Includes Stephen Csoka and others.
Includes Charles Douglas and others.
Includes Helen Gerardia, Theodore Gleaves, Bertram Goodman, Elenor S. Greenberg, F. Betty Guerber, and others.
Includes Riva Helfond and others.
Includes Gail Leff, Rita Leff, and others.
Includes Virginia Paccassi, George Peter, Leonard Pytlak, and others.
Includes Helen Siegl and others.
Includes Ann Twardowicz and others.
Includes Adja Yunkers and others.
Includes artists Jean Gunther, De Rosa, and Sadie Rosenblum.
Photographs include portraits and photographs of Emily A. Francis and others; gallery installation views; John Pellew and other artists at work; and artwork.
John Francis' family bible: New Testament of our lord and saviour Jesus Christ, according to the Authorized version; with the references and marginal readings of the polyglot Bible, and numerous additions from Bagster's comprehensive Bible. The v. is comprised of both the Old and New Testaments, although there is no title page for the former. Family births, baptisms, and deaths are noted in the flyleaves, and clippings and religious tracts are inserted.
The Frank Lloyd Gallery records measure 0.8 linear feet and date from 1960 to 2003, with the bulk of records dating from 1988 to 2003. The records include exhibition announcements and catalogs, magazine and newspaper clippings, mailers, press releases, and some photographic materials. Beatrice Wood's artist file consists of photos, correspondence, homemade cards, clippings, exhibition ephemera and more. Correspondence includes holiday cards, thank you notes, and scant museum correspondence.
Found here are exhibition announcements and catalogs, magazine and newspaper clippings, mailers, press releases, and some photographic materials. Beatrice Wood's artist file consists of photos, correspondence, homemade cards, clippings, exhibition ephemera and more. Correspondence includes holiday cards, thank you notes, and scant museum correspondence.
The Frank K. M. Rehn Galleries records measure 21.8 linear feet and are dated 1858-1969 (bulk 1919-1968). The records consist mainly of business correspondence with collectors, artists, museums and arts organizations, colleagues, and others. A small amount of Frank K. M. Rehn's personal correspondence and a few stray personal papers of individual artists are interfiled. Also included are financial records, scrapbooks, printed matter, miscellaneous records, and photographs documenting most of the history of a highly regarded New York art gallery devoted to American painting.
Series 1: Correspondence contains correspondence with artists, museums and arts organizations, collectors, colleagues, and others documents the workings of Rehn Galleries from its earliest days through 1968. A small amount of Frank K. M. Rehn's personal correspondence and a few scattered personal papers of individual artists are interfiled with the business correspondence.
Series 2: Financial Records includes banking, insurance, and investment records, tax returns and related documentation, miscellaneous financial records and paid bills. Among the insurance records are detailed monthly schedules listing paintings with titles, artists, and insurance values. Miscellaneous financial records include inventories of gallery stock, notes regarding business expenses and income, and receipt books recording incoming paintings. Also included are a small number of items concerning the personal business of Frank Rehn and John Clancy.
Five volumes of Scrapbooks (Series 3) contain clippings and a small number of exhibition catalogs documenting the activities of Rehn Galleries and many of its associated artists. Additional Printed Matter in Series 4 includes material relating to Rehn Galleries and its artists, as well as publications produced by Rehn Galleries. General, art-related printed matter consists of articles, auction catalogs, advertisements, and publications of various museums, arts organizations, and schools. There is also material about artists not affiliated with Rehn Galleries. Additional printed items concern miscellaneous subjects that are not art-related.
Series 5: Miscellaneous Records, includes artwork, lists and notes, and writings. Photographs in Series 6 are of people including artists represented by Rehn as well as several not affiliated with the gallery. Noticeably absent are likenesses of Frank Rehn and John Clancy. Photographs of works of art are by Rehn Galleries' artists and others. Reginald Marsh's photographs consist of family and personal photographs that were either given to Rehn Galleries or perhaps loaned for research use, and include views of Marsh from early childhood through later life, photographs of family and friends, and a small family album. Also included are photographs are of Marsh's childhood drawings.
Correspondence, both business and personal, consists mainly of incoming letters with a smaller number of carbon copies or handwritten drafts of replies. Business correspondence is with artists, museums and arts organizations, collectors, colleagues, and others. Small amounts of the personal correspondence of Frank Rehn and John Clancy are scattered throughout this series. Also included are a few stray personal papers of individual artists that may have been enclosed with other correspondence or loans that the gallery never returned. Greeting cards (except for a few with original artwork that are with Series 5), printed enclosures, and a small number of photographs specifically relating to the contents of letters are filed here, as well. Also present are loose receipts for painting deliveries (two bound volumes of similar receipts are with Series 2) and receipts for art purchased by the gallery.
Names listed under folder headings may not represent a comprehensive list of folder contents.
Abbott, Jerre
Abercorn Gallery
Abdach, W. J.
Abromson, Herman
Abrons, Herbert L. and Mary G.
ACA Gallery
Accademia dei Virtuosi al Pantheon
Achelis, Fritz
Acheson, Mrs. Dean
Acheson, George
Ackerman, Theodore G.
Adams, Abbie
Adams, Davidson and Co., Inc.
Adams, Mrs. Elbridge L.
Adams, G. N. 
Addison Gilbert Hospital
Adelphi College
Adkins, Mrs. E. B.
Adler, A. M.
Adler, Charles, II
Adler, Francis Heed
Adler, Lee
Adler, M. H.
Agnew, Ella G.
Aichele, Robert
Air France
Akron Art Institute
Alabama Polytechnic Institute
Alan Gallery
Albany Institute of History and Art
Albee, E. F.
Albers, Carla
Albert, Agnes
Albrecht Gallery
Albrecht, Walter E.
Aldis, Arthur
Aldis, Mary
Aldo Garzanti Editore
Alexander and Alexander Insurance
Alexander, Henry A.
Alexander, Joan
Alexander, Margaret
Allan, Helen T.
Allen, Agnes
Allen, Arthur D.
Allen, Mrs. C. R.
Allen, Elsie
H. L. Allen and Co.
Allen, Harold
Allen, James E.
Allen, Mortimer P.
Allen, Nellie Wright
Allis, Mary
H. V. Allison and Co., Inc.
Allison, Stella
Allstate Insurance Co.
Allyn and Bacon, Inc.
Allyn, Dorothea
Alpern Foundation
Altschul, Arthur G.
Altschuler, Herbert
Amanel, Amoi
America Designs, Inc.
American Academy of Arts and Letters
American Academy of Arts and Sciences
American Airlines
American Appraisal Company
American Art and Artists
American Art Association, Inc./American Art Galleries, Inc.
American Art News Co., Inc.
American Art Research Council
American Artist
American Artists Group, Inc.
American Association of University Women
American-British Art Center
American Collector
American Consul, Toronto
American Friends of Hebrew University
American Gallery
American Girl
American Heritage Publishing Co., Inc.
American Institute of Arts and Letters
American Institute of Decorators
American Institute of Graphic Arts
American Jewish Tercentenary
American Library of Color Slides
American National Committee of Engraving
American National Exhibition in Moscow
American Railway Express Company
American Rescue Ship Mission
American Society for Technion
American Society of Painters, Gravers, and Sculptors
American Surety Company of New York
American Swedish Historical Museum
American Telephone and Telegraph Co.
American University
American Watercolor Society
American Weekly
Ames, Elizabeth
Ames, John L., Jr.
Ames, Mrs. John W.
Ames, Winslow
Amherst College
Amy Corporation
Anderson, Elizabeth
Anderson Galleries, Inc.
Anderson, Margaret W.
Anderson, Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell
Andrews, Phoebe Warren
Angers, Maude E.
Anglo-Canadian Publishers Ltd.
Anisman, C. Jacques
Antin's Antiques and Reproductions
Anuszkiewicz, Richard
A.P.F, Inc.
Appelget, Thomas B.
Appleton and Cox, Inc.
Archdiocesan Service Corp.
Archer, Mrs. Price
Archives of American Art
Arden Gallery
Aragent Galleries
Arkansas Arts Center
Arkwell, Louise
Arlington Art Galleries
Armitage, Merle
Armory Show 50th Anniversary Exhibition (See Henry Street Settlement)
Arms, John Taylor
Armstrong, A. J.
Armstrong, George Alexander
Arnold, Mrs. Harry B.
Arnot Art Gallery
Aron, Jerome I.
Aronstamen, George C.
Art Academy of Cincinnati
Art Alliance (See Philadelphia Art Alliance)
Art Appreciation Movement
Art Association of New Orleans
Art Association of Newport
Art Book Publications, Inc.
Art Center Association
Art Center in la Jolla
Art Club of Philadelphia
Art Collectors and Artists Association
Art Digest
Art Direction
ARTgallery
Art Gallery of Hamilton
Art Gallery of Toronto
Art in America
Art Institute of Zanesville, Ohio
Art International
Art Museum of the New Britain Institute
Art News
Art Patrons of America
Art Quarterly
Art Students League
Art-Told Tales, Inc.
Art: USA
Art Voices
Art Week
Artist-Tenants Association
Artists Equity Association
Artists' Fellowship, Inc.
Artists for Victory, Inc.
Artists' Gallery
Artists' Guild of Washington
Artists League of America
Artists' Packing and Shipping, Co.
Artists Technical Research Institute
Arts/Arts Magazine
Arts and Antiques Show
Arts and Crafts/Arts and Crafts Club of New Orleans
Arts Club of Chicago
Arts Coordinating Council
Arts Guild of Williamsport
Ahda Artz Gallery Ltd.
Arwin Galleries
Associated American Artists
Associated Artists of Syracuse
Associated Libraries, Inc.
Associated Press
Association for the Help of Retarded Children, Inc.
Association of Dealers in American Paintings
Association of Oklahoma Artists
Astor, John J.
Astor, Vincent
Athena Gallery, Inc. (See also Mladinich, George)
Atkins Museum of Fine Arts (See William Rockhill Nelson Gallery of Art)
Atlanta Art Association/High Museum of Art
Atlas Window Cleaning Company
Atwater Kent Museum
Atwood, John C., Jr.
Audubon Artists
R. C. Auletta and Co., Inc.
Aument, Henrietta Sharom
Avnet, Mr.
Ayer, Charles M.
N. W. Ayer and Son, Inc.
Babbage, R. K.
Babbot, Frank L., Jr.
Babcock Gallery
Babcock, Louise B.
Backus, LeRoy M.
Bacon, Peggy
George Baer Gallery
Bagley, Henry Walker and Nancy R.
Bahnsen, C.
Bailey, Edith
Bailey, George
Bainbridge, Charlotte W.
Baird, Gordon
Baird, Joseph A., Jr.
Baker Collection Gallery
Baker, Keith H.
Baker, Marilyn
Baker, Oliver and Sylvia
Balcom, L. L. and S. T.
Baldwin, Charles Lansing
Balken, Edward Duff
Ball, Mrs. George A.
Ball State Teachers College
Balliet, Ann
Baltimore Municipal Museum
Baltimore Museum of Art
Bancroft, F. S.
Band, Charles S.
Bandler, David B.
Bangs, Mary Gray
Bank of New York
Bankers Trust Co.
Barbee, Robert T.
Barbee, Stanley N.
Barclay, Elizabeth
Barder, Al
Bardley, Mrs. M. P.
Baring, Edgar A., Jr.
Barlandina, Jane
Barn Gallery Associates, Inc.
Barndollar, Clarence R.
Barnes, Courtland D., Jr.
Barnes, Mr. and Mrs. John
John Barnes Foundation
Matthew Barnes Trust
Barney, Dorothea
Barnhill, Marjorie
Barns, Mrs. Robert
Barone, C. Gerald
Barr, Alfred H., Jr.
Barr, Norman
Barrett, C. W.
Barrett, Laura
Barrett, Tom
Barrington, Eugene
Barron, Murray B.
Barry, Ellen
Barse, George R.
Bartlett, Clay
Bartlett, Marjorie
Bartlett, Paul W.
Barton, Cornelius Vanderbilt
Barton, Frank
Basi, Albert
Bassett, Jane Fowler
Bassford, Wallace
Basso, Lydia
Bath, John C.
Bauer, Mrs. Hebert
Bauer, John
Bauhan, William L.
Bayard, Lucie
Baylor University
Bayne, S. G.
Bayonne Jewish Community Center
Bayroff, Mollie
Bazner, Eleanor
Beagary, H. Clinton
Beal, Mrs. L. J.
Beard Art Gallery
de Beaumont, Louis
Beckman, Fredrick W.
Beckwith, Mrs. Frank
Beder, Robert M.
Beede, Virginia S.
Beer, Doris Riber
Beers Bros. Co., Inc.
Begien, Jeanne
Beilin Gallery
Belgian Government Information Center
Belknap, William B.
Bell, Natalie
Bellows, George and Emma
Belton, J. D.
Bemelmans, Ludwig
Bement, A.
Bender, William H., Jr.
Bendiner, Alfred
Benevy, Herbert
Benner, Nolan P., Jr.
Bennett, E. C.
Bennett, Rhona
Bennett, Thomas L.
Benning, Margaret
Bennington College
Bentley, H. C.
Berg, G. L.
Bering, Edgar A., Jr.
Berkowitz, Rosalie
Berkshire Art Center
Berkshire Museum
Berkshire Publishing Co.
Berlandina, Jane (See Howard, Jane Berlandina)
Berley and Co., Inc.
Berman, Harold
Berman, L.
Berman, Philip I.
Berne, John H.
Bernheimer and Zucker (See also Zucker, Harry T.; Hollander and Bernheimer)
Bernstein, Robert
Berresford Gallery
Beseda, Ethel
Best, David
Frank Best and Co.
Beverly Hills Hotel and Bungalows
Bianco, Pamela
Biddle, E. T.
Biddle, George
Bier, Justus
Biggs, Mr. and Mrs. Walter, II
Billingsley, B. H.
Biltmore Art Salon (See also Cowie Galleries)
Binford, Julien
Bing and Bing
Bingham, Mrs. A. W.
Bingham Photo Engraving Co., Inc.
Birch, Beatrice W.
Birmingham Museum of Art
Birren, Joseph
Bissell, Mrs. Alfred E.
Bixby, Barbara
Blackburn, William
Blagden, Alison
Blagden, F. Allen
Blagden, Thomas P.
Blaikie, Robert B.
Blair, Lee
Blair, Robert N.
Blanch, Arnold
Blanchard, Mrs. John Osgood
Blanchard, Mrs. W. S.
Blemmer, Carl J.
Blevins, Jacques E.
Bliss, Robert Woods and Mildred
Bliss, Mrs. William H.
Block, Leigh B.
Block, Ralph
Bloedel, Eleanor
Blomshield, John
Bloomberg, Marguerite
Bloomington Art Association
Blow, Mrs. Richard
Blue Cross, Blue Shield
Blum, E. C.
Harrison Blum Gallery
Bock, Eugene
Boehret, Ethel W.
Bofinger Bros.
Bohrod, Aaron
Bolles, Charles S.
Bolles, Reginald F.
Bontous, August
Book-of-the-Month Club, Inc.
Boone, C. L.
Borden, Ella
Borgatta, Isabel Case
Bosa, Louis
Boshkoff, Douglass G.
Bossert, John
Boston Art Club
Boston Arts Festival
Boston Public Library
Boston Safe Deposit and Trust Company
Boston Symphony Orchestra
Boston Truck Co., Inc.
Boswell-Frankel Advertising Service
Boswell, Helen
Boswell, Peyton
Botkin, Henry
Bourgeois Gallery
Boutwell, Cyrus
Bowdoin College
Bower, Alexander
Bower, Anthony
Bowker, Nancy
Boyd, Fiske
Boyd's City Dispatch
Boyer, C. P.
Brackett, Clare L.
Brackman, Robert
Bradley, Susan H. (Mrs. L.)
Bradley, Mrs. M. P.
Bradley, Vinnie
Brady, Mrs. James Cox
Brainard, Owen
Brainos, M.
Bram, Mrs. William
Braman, Chester A. and Gladys
Brandeis University, Rose Art Museum
Brandt, Lois
Brandt, Rex
Braught, Ross E.
Braun, Herman L.
Braun, John F. and Edith E.
Braus Art Galleries
Brearley and Bradley
William S. Brecker and Co./Brecker, Zucker and Co.
Breckinridge, Robert
Breckner, George, Jr.
Bredin, R. Sloan
Breithut, Florence
Breithut, Frederick E.
Bremer, S. J.
F. H. Bresler Co./Bresler Galleries
Bresnahan
Brett, Wyckoff, Potter Hamilton, Inc.
Breyer, Margaret
Bridgeport Hydraulic Co.
Briggs, L. Vernon
Briggs, Norma
Brigham, Katherine L.
Bristol Art Museum
British War Relief Society, Inc.
Brittain, Miller
Brixey, R. D.
Brodman, Keeve
Broemel, Carl
Bronson, Barbara
A. Bronstein Company
Brooks, Jim
Brooks, Karolyn B.
Brooks, Mae M. 
Brooks Memorial Art Gallery
Brooks, Van Wyck
Brooks, W. F.
Brown, Agnes Clare
Brown, Alexander
Brown, Burr R.
Brown, Carroll
Brown, Catrinka
Brown, Mrs. Dudley
Brown, Mrs. E. P.
Brown, George Elmer
Brown, Gladys A.
Brown, Gwyneth (See King, Gwyneth Brown)
Brown, Harold William
Brown, Henry Collins
Brown, Irving
Brown, J. G.
Brown, Mr. and Mrs. John Welburn
Brown, Joseph
Margaret Brown Gallery
Brown, T. Wistar
Brown Transfer and Storage Service
Brown Wheelock-Harris Voght Co.
Brownlee, Gale
Bruce, Margaret S.
Bruggey, Delwin
Brush, Jerome
Bruten, Milton
Bruyn, Eveline
Bryant Park Sculpture Guild
Bryn Mawr Art Center
Buchanan, Charles
Buchsbaum, Myron
Buck, George H.
Buck Hill Art Association
Buckingham, Kate S.
Buckley, Alice
Buckley, Charles E.
Bucknell University
W. S. Budworth and Son, Inc.
Buena Vista College
Buffalo and Erie Country Historical Society
Buford, Leonise
Bugbird, Mary Bayne 
Bullard
Bullock's Grocery
Bunker, Arthur H.
Burchfield Estate
Burchfield Foundation
Burchfield, L.
Burchfield, Martha Richter
Burchfield-Penney Art Center (See State University College at Buffalo)
Burden-Muller, Rowland
Burden, William A. M.
Burgoon, E. B.
Burket, Carol
Burns, Howard F.
Burrelles Press Clipping Bureau
Burrer, Robert M.
Burrill, Nell F.
Burroughs, Alan
Burroughs, Betty (See also Woodhouse, Betty Burroughs)
Burrows, Carlyle
Burrows, Gladys
Burt, R. M.
Burton, Irving F.
Burton, Margaret L.
Bush, H. C.
Bush, Mary L.
Bustany, A. B.
Butcher, Larry
D. B. Butler and Co.
Butler, Joseph G. (See Butler Art Institute)
Butler, Mrs. W. H.
W. Russell Button, Inc.
Byrnes, Cornelia Park
Cady, Mary R.
Cagney, James
Cahill, Marion Cotter
Cahners, Helen R.
Calder, A.
California Palace of the Legion of Honor
California Water Color Society
Campbell, Charles V. and Isabel
Campbell, Estelle
Campbell, Marjorie
Campbell, Mary Louise
Campanella, Vincent and Leah
Cane, Florence
Canfield, Cass and Jane
Caniff, Milton
Cannell and Chaffin, Inc.
Cannon, Eleanor
Cantine, Jo
Canton Art Institute
Cape Cod Conservatory of Music and Arts
Carey Printing Company Inc.
Carlee, R. L.
Carlen Galleries
Carleton, Juliet
Carleton, Peter F.
Carlson, Carl
Carlson, J. D.
Carlson, John F.
Carlson, S. Ohrvel
Carney, John J.
Carolan, Anna B.
Carolina Art Association (See Gibbes Art Gallery)
Carpenter, J. S.
Carpenter, O. W.
Stanley M. Carper Co./Carper Galleries
Carr, Edith B.
Carrigan, Mr. and Mrs. Joe B.
Carrigan, William L.
Carrington, Omar R.
Carroll, Georgia F.
Carroll, Jack
Carson, Marie R.
Carson Pirie Scott and Co. Galleries
Carstairs, Carroll
Carter, Evelyn
Carter, Mrs. R. M.
Carter, Stephen
Carter, Whitford
Cary, E. L.
Case, Dorothy
Cassidy, Robert W.
Cassingham, Nat
Casson Galleries
Catholic Charities Appeal
Catto, Henry E., Jr.
Cayton, Susan W.
Cayuga Museum of History and Art
Cedar Rapids Art Association
Central Equities Corporation
Central Louisiana Art Association
Century Association
Ceramicenter
Chace, Jeanetta Jameson
Chace, Malcolm G., Jr. and Beatrice
Chaffey Community Art Association
Chamberlain, Betty
Champanier, A. A.
Chandlee, Anne
Chandler, Henry
Chandler, John W.
Chanler, Robert W.
Chapellier Studios/Chapellier Gallery
Chapin, Horace
Chapin, James
Chapman, Edward N.
Chapman, Mrs. John J.
Chapman, William Porter
Chappell, W. Vivian
Charcoal Club
Chase, Clara T.
Chase, Clarence M.
Chase, Doris
Chase National Bank/Chase Manhattan Bank
Chase, Rodney
Chatham, John
Chattanooga Art Association, Inc.
Cheney, Sheldon
Cherkasky, Martin
Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Co.
Chester, William
Chestnut, Isabel
Chicago Evening Post
Chidsey, Alan
Child Study Association of America
Children's Aid and Adoption Society
Children's Press, Inc.
Chillingworth, Mrs. Charles
Chisholm, Hugh J.
Choat, Mabel
Christ-Janer, Albert
Chrysler, Walter P.
Church, C.
Church of St. John the Evangelist
Cichowski, S. R.
Cimiotti, Mr.
Cincinnati Modern Art Society
Cincinnati Museum Association/Cincinnati Art Museum
Circle Gallery
Cirker's Hayes Storage Warehouse, Inc. (See also Hayes Storage, Packing and Removal Service)
Citizen's Fidelity Bank and Trust Co.
City Art Museum of St. Louis
City College
City of New York Insurance Co. 
City of Paris, Rotunda Gallery
Clancy, John
Clark, Alfred Corning
Clark, Mr. and Mrs. B. S.
Clark, Burnet J.
Clark, Eliot
Clarkdale Estates, Inc.
Clarke, Augustus W.
Clearwater Art Museum (See also: Florida Gulf Coast Art Center, Inc.)
Clement, Norman P.
Clement, Mr. and Mrs. S. Merrell
Clements, G. H.
Geoffrey Clements, Inc.
Clements, George
Cleveland Institute of Art
Cleveland School of Art
A. B. Closson, Jr., Co.
Clymer, James Floyd
Coburn, Mrs. L. L.
Cocke, Frances H.
Cocroft, Thomas
Coe, John I.
Coe, Theodore
Coffin, Winthrop
Cohan, George M.
Cohee, John F.
Cohen, Frances
Cohen, George M.
Cohen, Lester
Cohen, Louis D.
Cohen, Margaret Fox
Cohen, Nessa
Colby College
Colby, Rubin
Cole, Evelyn E.
Coleman, David
Coleman, Glenn O.
Colgate, Henry A.
Colin, Ralph F.
Collectors' Finds (See Walker Galleries)
Collectors Gallery, Inc.
College Art Association
Collins, Alan C.
Collins, Betty Hoog
Collins, Carvel
Collins, Henry J.
Colonial Williamsburg
Colt, Morgan
Columbia Grammar School
Columbia Museum of Art
Columbia University
Columbus Art League
Columbus Gallery of Fine Arts
Columbus Museum of Arts and Crafts, Inc.
Colwell, Elizabeth
Comfort, Mrs. W. W.
Comingore, Mrs. Robert E.
Committee of Artists' Societies
Community Coordinating Council of North Queens
Community Service Society
Community Synagogue
Conacher Galleries
Concordia Teachers College
Condon, Frank
Congregation Bnai Jeshurun
Congregation Zichron Ephriam
Conklin, R. H.
Conover, Ethel Wyeth
Connoisseur
Conroy, John J.
Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc.
Consolidated Gas Company
Contemporary Art
Contemporary Arts
Contemporary Arts Association
Contemporary Arts, Inc.
Conway, Fred
Cooper, Mary M.
Cooper School of Art
Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art
Copher, Glover H.
Copley Gallery
Corbel, Margaret
Corbino, Jon and Marcia
Cornelius, Marty Lewis
Cornell University
Cortissoz, Royal
Cortright, Frank W.
Cosmopolitan Club
Costigan, John E.
Coubert, Charles R.
Country Beautiful
Countway, Miss
Courier-Journal (Louisville)
Courtland, S.
Courtenay, J. C.
Courvoisier Galleries
Couse, E. Irving
Coville, Helen
Cowden, Wallace H.
Cowdin, J. Cheever
Cowie Galleris (See also Biltmore Art Salon)
Cowles, Maude
Cox, Hermine M.
Coykendell, Edward
Craig, Evelyn
Craig, Kathleen
Craig, Robert
Craig, Thomas
Cramer, Konrad
Cranbrook Academy of Art
Crane, Bruce
Crane, Louise
Crawford, Gretchen C.
Creative Art
Creative Studio, Inc.
Creelman, Alice B.
Cresmer, William T.
Crissey, W. Clark
Crist, Marion Speicher
Crist, William B.
Cristofano, Daniel
Crittenden, Walter H.
Crossgrove, Roger Lynn
Crowell, Lucius A., Jr.
Crowley, Joan A.
Crowley, Timothy F.
Crowninshield, Frank
Crum, Priscilla
Crumley, Leroy A.
Crump, Mary E. B.
Cue
Culver, Albert B.
Culver, Charles B.
Cumings, Thayer
Cuniff
Cunningham, John J., Jr.
Cunningham, Thomas H.
Currier Gallery of Art
Curry, Josephine
Curtis, I. Maynard
Curtis Publishing Co. (See Ladies' Home Journal)
Cushman and Wakefield, Inc.
Cushman Gallery, Inc.
Cushman, Mrs. Paul
Cushman, Thelma C.
Cuthbert, Virginia
Cutler, Carl Gordon
Cutler, Phoebe
D Contemporary Paintings/Terry Dintenfass
Dade, Philip L.
Daingerfield, Elliott
Daley, Mrs. L.
Dallas Public Library
Dallett, John
D'Ambarosio Hermanos
Daniel Gallery
Danvers Hardware Co.
Darling, Belle P.
Darratt, Edward
Dartmouth College
Dasberg, Andrew
Daukas, Nicholas
Davenport Municipal Art Gallery
Davey, Randall
Davey, Mrs. W. N.
Davidson, Edna C.
Davidson, Mary P.
Davidson, Stuart C.
Davies, Charles T.
Davis, Charles H.
Davis, Mrs. Chase
Davis, Dorland and Co.
Davis, Mrs. Ferdinand
Davis, Florence
Davis, Gladys Rockmore
Davis, Mrs. Henry
Davis, James A.
Davis, M. H.
Davis, Roscoe
Davis, Warren B.
Davis, Will J.
Davison Art Center (See Wesleyan University)
Davison, H. B.
Day, Esther Worden
Dayton Art Institute
Dayton, Bruce B.
Dealers in American Art
Dears, Francis D.
Decorators Club, Inc.
De Cordova and Dana Museum and Park
Deeley Gallery
De Erderly, Francis
Deerfield Academy
Deerfield Foundation, Inc.
DeFord, Ronald K.
De Forest, Mrs. Shepherd K.
De Gogorza, Maitland
De Groot, Adelaide Milton
DeHaven, Heidi
Delano, Allen
Terry DeLapp Gallery, Inc.
Delaware Art Center
Isaac Delgado Museum of Art
Demco Library Supplies
Deming, Barbara
Deming, Eleanor
Deming, Mrs. Q.
Dempsey, Nan and Mim
Den Breems, Mrs. Arie
Denen, Jerri
Dennington, E.
Dennison, Carl L.
Denver Art Museum
Des Moines Association of Fine Arts/Des Moines Art Center
Dessauer, Mrs. W. L.
Desylva, B. G.
Desylva, Marie
Detroit Artists Market
Deutrich, Alfred
Deutsch, Clara
Devean, Ross R.
Devere, Bob
Devine, B.
Devine, D. J.
Dewey, Charles Melville
M. H. De Young Memorial Museum
Diaz, Jorge C.
Diaz, Mercedes C.
Dibblee, Mrs. Benjamin H.
Dickson, Mrs. Campbell
Dietz, Julia Grant
Dill, George A.
Dill, Otto
Dillon, Clarence Douglas
Dintenfass, Terry (See D Contemporary Paintings)
Dobkin, Alexander
Dodge, Joseph Jeffers
Doll and Richards, Inc.
Donald, Rachel Lenox
Donaldson, Joseph, Jr.
Donnelley, Arthur
Dordan, Leonard
Dorl, Lillian E.
Dorr, Charles H.
Dorsey Gallery
Doubleday and Company, Inc.
Dougherty, E. Paul
Downtown Community School
Downtown Gallery
Dows, Olin
Dozier, Joan and William
Drawing Society
Dreyful, Jean
Driggs, Elsie
Drought, Marian
Drummond, Penny
Du Bois, George E.
Dubuque Art Association
Duemmling, Dorothy C.
Duke, Betty
Duke University
Duncan, Bob
Dunitz Agency
Roberth Dunthorne and Son
Duplaix, Jeanne
Duran, Ross
Dustin, Silas
Duval, Herman
Duveen, Albert
Duveen Brothers, Inc.
Duveen-Graham Modern Art
Duveen, Joseph
Dwight Hall, Yale University
Dyer, George J.
Earle, Dorothy Kirchner
Earle, Maurice James
Early, Edward A.
Eastern Michigan University
Eastman, John, J., Jr.
Easton, Joan K.
Ebb, Fred
Eckard, Clarence
Edelstein, Babette Bauman
Edelson, Gilbert S.
Eden Family
Edgerly, Beatrice
Edison, Robert W.
Edmundson Art Foundation, Inc.
Edwards, Archibald C.
Edwards, Robert
Egginton, F. J.
Eglington, Mrs.
Egner, Arthur F.
Ehrenfast, Fritz
Ehrenford, Josephine
Eider, S.R.L.
1811 House
Einson-Freemen Co., Inc.
Eisenberg, A.
Eisendrath, William N., Jr.
Eisner, Helen
Eland, John S.
Eliot, Alexander
Eliot, Lucy
Douglas L. Elliman and Co.
Elliott, Eleanor T.
Elliott, M. A.
Elliott, Mary
Elliott, Virginia Cuthbert (See Cuthbert, Virginia)
Ellis, Garland
Ellwanger, Helen C.
Elmore, Derrill G., Jr.
Elson, Hilbert
Embry, Lloyd
Emeking, J. Eliot
Emert, Mrs. James T.
Andre Emmerich Gallery, Inc.
Empire Trust Co.
Encyclopedia Britannica
Enderton, M.
Engel, Michael M.
Engisch, Joan
Engle, Nanene Q.
Englewood Art Gallery
Epstein, Ellen
Epstein, Louis
Equitable Life Assurance Society
Erickson, Edward
Erickson, Ernest
Erickson, Pat
Erie County Pharmaceutical Association
Erskine, J. D.
Erskine, John
Eskin, Annette
Esquire
Essex Art Association
Etnier, Mrs. C. E.
Etnier, Stephen M.
Eulau, Milton B. and Harriet K.
Eustis, Grace H.
Evans, Bea
Evans, Charles P.
Evans, Maurice V.
Evans, W. H.
Evanston Art Center and Market
Evanston Public Museum
Evansville Public Museum/Evansville Museum of Arts and Sciences
Everett, Josephine P.
Everson Museum of Art (See also Syrances Museum of Art)
Ewing, Alice
Fabro, Bernice and J. A.
Faggi, Alfeo
Fairchild Engine and Airplane Corp.
Fairweather-Hardin Gallery
Falck, Alexander D., Jr.
Famous Artists Corporation
Famous Artists Course for Talented Young People/Famous Schools
Fancher, M. Reid
Fantasy Gallery
Far Brook School
Farjean, Harry B.
Farmer, Henry
Farnol, Lynn
William A. Farnsworth Library and Art Museum
Farr, Finis
Farrar, Straus and Giroux, Inc.
Fath, Joe
Fay, William L.
Federation of Modern Painters and Sculptors
Feeley Advertising Agency, Inc.
Feldman, Charles K.
Felin, Charles F.
Fellers, Josephine
Felt, Sylvia
Fenster, G.
Ferargil, Inc.
Ferry, Edith
Fertig, Lawrence
Festival of Arts Association
Fidelity Appraisal Co., Inc.
Fidelity Storage and Warehouse Co.
Fidelity Twentieth Century Transportation Co.
Field Enterprises Educational Corp.
Fieldston-Ethical Alumni Association (See New York Society for Ethical Culture)
Fieldston School Arts Center
Fiene, Ernest
Fifield, Edith W.
Fifth Avenue Auction Rooms
Fifth Avenue Bank
Fifth Avenue Protective Association
Figen, Milton
Fillin, Amy
Fillin, Walter and Lucille
Finch College Museum of Art
Findlay Art Galleries (Kansas City)
Findlay Galleries (Chicago)
Fine Arts Gallery of San Diego
Fine Arts Institute
Finger, T. E.
Arnold Finkel Gallery
Fire Companies' Adjustment Bureau, Inc.
Fischer, Sara L.
Fish, George Winthrop
Fisher, Carl and Joan
Franklin Fisher and Associates, Inc.
Fisher, J. L.
Fisher, R. G.
Fishman, Adam
Fitch, George H.
Fitler, Mrs.
Fitzgerald, Desmond
Fitzgerald, Harriet
Five Towns Music and Art Foundation, Inc.
Flaherty, Leonard E.
Fleischman, Arthur
Fleischman, Lawrence A.
Fleming, William T.
Flint Institute of Arts
Floret, Lydia
Florida Artist Group, Inc.
Florida Gulf Coast Art Center (See also Clearwater Art Museum)
Florida State College for Women
Florida State University
Florie, S. T.
Flower, E. M.
Fogarty, Margaret M.
Fogg Art Museum
Folinsbee, James
Folsom, C. M., Jr.
Fontaine, Joan
Forbes Magazine of Business and Finance
Forges, Ruth
Force, Juliana
Ford Foundation
Ford, John Hampton
Ford, William H.
Forgan, Mrs. Robert R.
Forman, Joanne
Fort Dodge Federation of Arts, Inc.
Fort Wayne Art School and Museum
Fort Worth Art Association/Fort Worth Art Center
Fortess, Karl E.
Fortner, Fred
Fortune
Forum Gallery
Fosdick, J. William
Foshay, Mrs. W. W.
Foss, Archibald C.
Foster and Adams
Fowler, A. A.
Fowler, Ethel L.
Fowler, M. Freelon
Fox, J. Bertram
Fox, John Owen
Pearl Fox Fine Paintings
Fraad, Daniel
Fraad, Harriet
Frames for Collectors
Francis, George M.
Frank, Erich P. and Aileen C.
Frank, Helen
Frank, J. M.
Frankel, Cecile R.
Frankllin, Max
Fransioli, Thomas A.
Frantz, Sarah Stanley
Frazier, John R.
Frederick, Rhoda
Frederickson, F. Lyder
Women's Guild of the Free Synagogue of Westchester
Freedman, Harriet D.
Freer, Charles L.
Freiman, Ray
Frelinghuysen, H. O. H.
French, Daniel Chester
Frenkel, Robert E.
Frenkel and Co., Inc.
Freucl, William C.
Freudenthal, Mrs. A.
The Frick Art Reference Library
Friedlaender, Alex S.
Friedlander, Herzl
Friedman, Meyer
Friend, Weston U.
Friends of American Art
Froelich, Paul
Frondel, Clifford
Frothingham, John W.
Fujikawa Gallery
Fuller, Alvin T.
Fuller, Justine
Fuller, Robert H.
Fulop, Karoly
Gaffey, Edward R.
Gage,George
Gage, William H., Jr.
Galerie 19
H. Galka, Inc.
Gallagher, Edward J., Jr.
Gallant, Mary Claire
Gallatin, A. E.
The Gallery, Inc. (Atlanta)
The Gallery (Fort Lauderdale)
Gallery North
Gallery of Modern Art including the Huntington Hartford Collection (See also Hartford, Huntington)
Gallery-on-the-Hudson
Gallery Press
Gallery Reese Palley
Ganley, Robert David
Ganz, Sally
Garber, Daniel
Garden and Home Builder
Gardiner, A. P.
Gardner, Mrs. John L.
Garelick's Gallery
Garfield National Bank
Garrard Publishing Co.
Garrett, Mrs. George
Garrett, Mrs. John W.
Gash, Chester Alan
Gatch, Elsie Driggs (See Driggs, Elsie)
Gates, Clinton H.
Gavin, Ruth Raymond
Geddes, D. G.
Geffen, Felicia
Gehl, Sidney H.
Gelber-Epstein Custom Picture Framing
Gellatly, John
Genaur, Emily
Genung, Mrs. C. H.
George, Thomas
Georgia Institute of Technology
H. O. Gerngross and Co., Inc.
Gessert, Earl
Gibbes Art Gallery
Gibbons, Mr. and Mrs. Cedric
Gibson, Langhorne
Gibson, Sybil
Gikow, Ruth
Gilder, Joseph
Gilbert, Bill and Sib
Gilbert, O. Rundle
Gilbert, Peter
Gilbert, Regine
Gilbert, William F.
Gilchrist, W. A.
Gilchrist, W. W., Jr.
Giles, Howard
Gilkey, Gordon W.
Gillis, William
Gimbel, Mrs. Bernard F.
Gimbel Brothers (See Kende Galleries, Inc.)
Gitlin, Zachary
Glannon, Edward
Glasheen, Adeline E.
Glasheen, Francis
Glasner, Bertha E.
Glassford, Pelham David
Glemby, Mr. and Mrs. Harry
Glen, Stanley and Ethel B.
Glidden Buick Corp.
Glidden, G.
Glosser, Mrs. Alvin M.
Gloucester, Mass., City of
Gloucester Electric Co.
Gloucester Telephone Co.
Glover, Jane Louise
Gloversville Intercultural League
Gluck, F. J.
Goddard Gallery
Godowsky, Frances
Goldberg, Albert
Golde, Joseph A.
Golde, Joseph E.
Golden Gate International Exposition
Golden, Richard Davis
Goldfarb, William
Goldman, Mrs. Albert
Goldman, Frederick
Goldman, Mr. and Mrs. Harold J.
Goldreyer, Daniel
Goldshlag, Leo J.
Goldsmith, Morton
Goldstein, Sanford H.
Goldstone, Herbert A.
Golffing, Francis
Gooch, Mrs. Cecil Milton
Good, J.
Good, Robert
Goodall, Donald B.
James Goodman Gallery (See G Contemporary Art)
Goodrich, Lloyd
Goodsell, Charles W.
Goodwin, Philip L.
Goodyear, A. Conger
Goodyear, George F.
Gordon, Lois
Gorman, Bryce
Gorman, William D.
Gornoll, Ruth
Gosline, William A., Jr.
Dey Gosse Gallery
Gotcliffe, Sid
Gotterdam, Paskell
Gottlieb, Eugene L.
Gould, Northram R.
Gould, Tod
Grace, Nan
Grade Teacher
Grady, James
Grafly, Dorothy
Graham, Donald S.
James Graham and Sons
Robert C. Graham Gallery
Graham, Robert MacD., Jr.
Grand Central Art Galleries
Grand Central School of Art
Grand Rapids Art Gallery/Grand Rapids Art Museum
Grand Street Settlement
Granek Frame Shop
Grant, Earle
Grassi, Arturo
Gray-Attwater, Lillian
Great Neck Cultural Center
Great Neck Education Association, Inc.
Greef, Charles B.
Green, Albert L.
Greenbaum, Edward S.
Greenbaum, Sophia
Greenough, Margaret S.
Greenville County Museum of Art
Greenwald, F. L., Jr.
Greenwich Society of Artists
Greenwich Village-Gramercy Park Committee of Russia War Relief
Greenwood, Mrs. Kenneth
Gregoropoulos, L. John
A. Grieve Co., Inc.
Griffin, Howard
Griffin, Walter
Griffin, William H.
Griggs, Mary
Grinnell Brothers
Griswold, Mrs. A. W.
Grombach, John V.
Grosbert, Mr. and Mrs. Hebert L.
Gross, Earl
Gross, Sidney
Gross, Stanley J.
Grossfield, Sylvia
Grosso and Co.
Grosz, George
Earl Groth and Co.
Groves, William J.
Gruom, Ed
Gruppe, Charles P.
Grusberg, G.
Guerry, Prosper
Guertler, Rudolph
Guest, A. E.
Guggenheim, Edmond A.
John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation
Guggenheim, Robert
Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum
Guild Hall
Guild of Boston Artists
Gummo, Blanchard
Gump's
Gurney, Albert R., Jr.
Gutterdam, P. M.
Gwyn, Woody
Haas, Clara S.
Haas, Lillian Henkel
Habecker, Kent C.
Hackett, Frances G.
Haggin Memorial Art Galleries
Hagimont, Frances
Hague Art Deliveries, Inc.
Hahn Brothers Fireproof Warehouses, Inc.
Hale, J. D.
Hall, Clifton R.
Hall, Standish
Hall, Weeks
Hallmark Art Award
Hallowell, Robert
Halmi, Mrs. Artur
Halow, A. J.
Halperin, Theodore P.
Seymour Halperin Associates
Halsey, Lilian J.
Halvorson, Newman T. and Virginia M.
Hambeuchen, J. W.
Hambrick, Lucile
Hamilton, Carl W.
Hamilton, Chloe
Hamilton College
Hamilton, David K.
Hamlin, Genevieve Karr
Hamlin, Lucy R.
Hamlin, Talbot
Hammerslough, A. J.
Hammett, Buell
Hammond, Susan
Hammond, Roland B.
Hammond, Ruth
Hampton Gallery
Hampton, R. L.
Hanft, Mr.
Hanna, Leonard C., Jr.
Hanna, Ray
Hans, Edward K.
Hansel, Mrs.
Hansen, Einar
Hansen, H. F.
Hansen, James L.
Hanson and Parker
Hanson, William E.
Hanzel Galleries, Inc.
Harding, Agnes Bukley
Harding, George F.
Harding, J. M.
Hardy, DeWitt and Pat
Hare, Elizabeth Sage
Hargraves, Rainbolt
Haring, Victor
Harkness, Mrs. M.
Harkness, Mrs. William Hale
Harline, Catherine
Arthur H. Harlow and Co.
Harman, H. G.
Harner, Lewis H.
Harnett, Lilian and Joel
Harper and Brothers
Marie Harriman Gallery
Harrington, George B.
Harris, Edwin A.
Harrison, Barbara
Harrison, Birge
Harrison, Eloise
Harrison, Justen
Harrison, Paula
Harshe, William R.
Hart, Mrs. Louis B.
Hart, Pop
Hart Publishing Co.
Hartford, Huntington (See also Gallery of Modern Art incorporating the Huntington Hartford Collection)
Hartman, Rosella
Hartog, Joseph
Hartwell, S. S.
Hartwick College
Harvard Alumni Bulletin
Harvey, F. Sailor
Hassam, Childe
Haswell, Anthony and Virginia
Dalzell Hatfield Galleries
Haug, Frank
Hawkes, Dr. and Mrs. Forbes
Hawthorne, Charles
Hay, John
Hayden, Richard C.
Haydock, George S.
Hayes, Edward
Hayes, Helen
Hayes Storage, Packing and Removal Service (See also Cirker's Hayes Storage Warehouse, Inc.)
Haynes, Caroline C.
Hayward, Leland
Haywood, T. Holt
Hazard, Mrs. Roland
Heald, Gordon T.
Heald, J. Nicholas, II
Healy, A. Augustus
Hearne, W. L.
D. C. Heath and Co.
Heath's Gallery
Hecht, Ben
Heckscher Museum
Hedborg, Mrs.
Heerman, Norbert
Hefferman, Marion C.
Heil, Walter
Heinzelman, Carl D.
Heitland, W. Emerton
Helbig, Henry
Helck, C. P.
Held, Louis
Helen, Inc.
Helmsley-Spear, Inc.
Helmsworth, James A.
Hemphill, Noyes and Co.
Henderson, P.A.B.
Henderson, Paul G.
Henderson, W. Abbott
Hendrek, Edward
Heniot, Enrique L.
Hennessey, James A.
Henri, Robert
Henry, David T.
Henry, Frances L.
Henry, Mildred H.
Henry Street Settlement, Armory Show 50th Anniversary Exhibition
Hepburn, Katharine
Herbert, Ellen
Herbert, James D.
Heritage Gallery
Herndon, Isabel
Herrman, E. Adele
Herron, David
Hervey, Wilna and Nan Mason
Hetzel, Ralph
Hewitt, Edward Shepard
H. Heydenryk, Jr. Fine Fames
Hickey, Florence
Hidalgo
High School of Music and Art
Higgins, Carter C.
Hillman, Alex L.
Hillstrom, Richard L.
Hinchman, Anne
Hinchman, Margaretta S.
Hirsch, Barbara M.
Hirsch, Joseph
Hirschl and Adler Galleries, Inc.
Hirschland, F.H.
Hirshhorn, Joseph H./Joseph H. Hirshhorn Collection (See also Lerner, Abram)
Hirst, Claude Raguet
Hirst, Donald
Hite, Marcia S./Allen R. Hite Art Institute, University of Louisville
Hitzler, Florence
Hixen
Hoagland, Ruth H.
Hochschild, Mrs. Harold
Hodson, E. L.
Hoerman, Mrs. Kirk
Hofield, Irene
Hoffman, Mrs. Lewis
Hofmann, Earl Francis
Hofstra College/Hofstra University
Hoftrup, J. Lars
Holabird and Root and Burgee
Holbrook, Alfred H.
Holbrook, Hollis
Holden, Eleanor
Holland Galleries
Hollander and Bernheimer (See also Bernheimer and Zucker)
Hollins College
Hollins, Elizabeth and Jay
Hollister, Ruth A.
Holmehill, Inc. 
Holmes, George
Holmquist, Ibbie
Holston, Bill
Holt, Rhinehart and Winston, Inc.
Holyoke Museum of Natural History and Art
Honolulu Academy of Arts
Hood, David R.
Hoover, Bee
Hoover, Clare
Constance Hope Associates, Inc.
Hope, Henry and Sally
Hopkins Center Art Gallery (See Dartmouth College)
Hopkins, Florence O.
Hopkinson, Charles
Hopper Estate
Horch, L. L.
Horelick, Jules
Horizon
Horley, Lester
Grace Horne Gallery
Horten, Mrs. B. F.
Horter, Elizabeth Lentz (Mrs. Earl)
Horton Galleries
Horton, Harry V.
Hoskins, Beatrice T.
Hosmer, Billy Price
Hostetler, Mrs. Joseph C.
Hotel Alcadel
Hotel Publications, Inc.
Houff, Frances M.
Houghton Mifflin Co. 
Housatonic Valley Conference
House Beautiful Magazine
Howard, Arthur P.
Howard, Jane Berlandina
Howard, Lee
Howard University
Howe, E. Ruth
Howell, Mrs. Charles A.
Howland, Isabella
Hoyle, Charles A.
Hoyte, Charles B.
Hubbard, Earl Wade and Barbara
Hudnut, Alex
Hudson Guild, Inc.
J. L. Hudson Co.
Hudson Shipping Co.
Huf, Mrs. W. L.
Hult, Bernard
Humphries, J. C.
Humphrey, Eleanor B.
Hunnewell, Mrs. Hollis
Hunt, Mrs. A.
Hunt, Grace
Hunt, Rachel Miller
Hunter College
George Thomas Hunter Gallery of Art (See Chattanooga Art Association)
Hunterdon County Art Center
Hunting, Mary I. and David D.
Huntington, Christopher
Huntington, John W.
Huntington, Robert W.
Hurd, Hiram H.
Hurry, Lucy W.
Hurtt, Mr. and Mrs. Clyde B.
Hurwitz, Leo
Hutchins, Robert
Hutzler, Elsa
Hyde, Mrs. Louis F./Mrs. Louis F. Hyde Collection
Hydeman, Albert L.
Hyder, Inez
Hynd, Fred S.
Hyperion Press
Iglehart, Wendy
Ingersoll, Anna W.
Ingersoll, R. Sturgis
Ingraham, David
Inn at Buck Hills Falls
Institute of Contemporary Arts
Institute of Modern Art/Institute of Contemporary Art
Institute for Research
Instructor
Insular Arts Council
Internal Revenue
International Appliance Co.
International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)
International Directory of Arts
International Festival of Art (See United Nations Tribute and International Festival of Art)
International Monetary Fund
Inter-State Detective Agency
Iowa State College
Iowa Union and School of Fine Arts
Irwin, Gerda M.
Iselin, Mr. and Mrs. Herbert M.
Isham, Mr. and Mrs. Lincoln
Isidor, J. S.
Israel Museum (Mrs. T. J. Israel)
Israel, Laura N.
Ed Iverson Trucking
Jacks, N. B.
Jackson, David P.
Jackson, Martha K.
Jackson, Roscoe B.
Jacobs, Mrs. S. Allen
Jacobs, Bernard
Jacobs, John H.
Jacobs, Philip F.
Jacobs, Wilma
Jacobsen, Mrs. Hugh Newell 
Jacobsson, Edward Gustave
James, Mickey
James, Oliver B.
Jameson, Mrs. P. M.
Jamison Galleries
Janns, Anne Marie
January, A. M.
Jaques, Gertrude M.
Jarman, Sally Long
Jefferson, Blanche
Jefferson Gallery
Jeffries, John
Jelleff, Frank R.
Jellineck, Rena F.
Jenkins, A. W.
Jenkins, Esther E.
Jenkins, J. E.
Jennings, Mrs. Brewster
Jennings, G.
Jesup and Lamont
Jewell, Edward Alden
Jewish Frontier
Jewish Memorial Hospital
Jewish Museum
Jewish Theological Seminary of American
Johansson, Alison C.
Johnsen, David
Johnsen, May
Johnson, A. L.
Johnson, Albert R.
Johnson, Alice
Johnson, Benjamin Franklin
Chester H. Johnson Galleries
Johnson, Mrs. Frederick
Johnson, Helena Chase
Johnson-Humrickhouse Memorial Museum
Johnson, L.
Johnson, Leonard Williams
Johnson, Philip
Johnson, Robert A.
Johnson, Robert Underwood
Johnson, William J.
Joint Board Fur Dressers' and Dyers' Union
Jones, Alfred E., Jr.
Jones, Mrs. Alfred Winslow
Jones, Arthur W.
Jones, B. H.
Jones, Mrs. Herbert
Jones, W. B.
Jones Art Galleries, Inc.
Jonson, Raymond
Joske's of Texas
Joslyn Memorial/Joslyn Art Museum
Joyner, J. Brooks
Judson, Mrs. Clay
Judson, Harold
Junior Art Gallery, Inc.
Junior League of Jackson
Juster Gallery
Kachurin
Kaese's Lakeview Farm
Kahn, Laurence S.
Kalamazoo College
Kalamazoo Institute of Arts
Kamperman, George
Kander, Allen
Kanin, Garson
Kansas City Art Institute and School of Design
Kansas City Museum
Kansas City Southern Industries, Inc.
Kansas State College/Kansas State University
Kantor, Morris
Kaplan, Alice M.
Kaplan, Morton
Kaplan, Richard
Karfiol, Bernard
Arthur C. Karlin Co., Inc.
Tirca Karlis Gallery
Karnes, Marilyn
Karten, Lawrence B.
Katonah Gallery, Inc.
Katz, Joseph
Katzenbach and Warren, Inc.
Katzieff, J. D.
Kauffmann, Milton
Kaufman, Irving
Kaufmann, Edgar, Jr.
Kay, David
Kaye, L. B.
Keane, William L.
Keaney, John
W. R. Keating and Co.
Keck, Andrew S.
Keefe, John W.
Keeler, Rollston
Kehoe, M.
Keighley, William and Genevieve
Keith, Lucile
Kelley, Mrs. 
Kelley, Chapman
Kelle, F. B.
Kellogg, George A.
Kellogg, Jean
Kelly, Miss
Kelly, Evelyn
Kelly, John
Kelly, Leon
Kem, Mrs. James P.
Kemp, Louis F.
Kemper, William T., Jr.
Kendall, Messmore
Kende Galleries, Inc.
Kennard, J.
Kennedy and Co./Kennedy Galleries, Inc.
Kennedy, David O'D.
Kennedy, Mrs. Gilbert
Kennedy, J. M.
Kennedy, John F., Pres. Elect and Mrs.
Kennedy, Joe
Kennedy, William H.
Kenreich, Virginia B.
Kent Grand Central Garage
Kent, Norman
Kent, Rockwell
Kenyon College
Frederick Keppell and Co., Inc.
Kerr, Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Fisher
Khahn, Rhoda S.
Kibbee, Mrs. Henry Myers
Kierstead, Wilson H., Jr.
Kieswetter, Dayton T.
Kildea, Mrs. York
Kiln Club
Kimball, David C.
Kimball, Yeffee V.
Kindler, Alice
King, Gwyneth
King, Lawrence
King, Paul
King, Ralph T.
King, William V.
Kingdon, Frank
Kingsport Press Sales Agency
Kinney, William S.
Kinney System Rent a Car
Kiorboe, Mr. and Mrs. Vilhelm
Kipbuth, De Laney
Kirkham and Hall
Kirsch, John
Kit Kat Club
Klatt, C.
Kleege, James H.
Kleeman Galleries
Klitgaard, Georgina
Klitgaard, Kaj
Knapp, Sally Hazard
Knappen, James F.
Knauth, Oswald
Knight, Alice V.
Knight, E. F.
Knight, Frederic
M. Knoedler and Co., Inc.
Knoepke, Olga H.
Knopf, Otto
Knowlton, Hugh
Kogod, Robert P.
Kohn, Bernard A.
Kohnstamm, M. Jacques
Kolbe, Eugene
Komroff, Elinor Barnard
Samuel M. Kootz Gallery, Inc.
Koren, Harriet
Kormendi, Laszlo
Kornblum, Irving
Korner and Wood Co.
Kornfeld, Arnold
Koven, Mrs. Gustav
Kosicki, Witold Watha
Kottler, Ronald
Kouwenhoven, Alexandra and William G.
Kozlow, Richard
Kraus, Eleanor
C. W. Kraushaar Art Galleries/Kraushaar Galleries
Kreindler, Doris Barsky
Kress, Edith D. S.
Kriegler, Joseph
Kristiansen, Georgina
Kroll, Leon
Kronberg, Dr. and Mrs. Bernard
Kronberg, Louis
Kruik, Arie B.
Kuehne, Max
Kulicke, Barbara and Bob
Kulicke Frames, Inc.
Kupferman, Joseph
Kurson, Phyllis
Kurtz, Olga
La Boiteux, Mrs. M. H.
La Branch, George 
Lacey, J. Stewart
Ladies' Home Journal 
Laguna Beach Art Association
Lahey, Dick
La Hotan, Robert
Lake, Frederick
Lamb, John A.
Lamb, Mildred H.
Lamb, Nellie A.
Lambert, Bradford
Lambert, Mrs. Gerard
Lammers, Wayne
Lamont Art Gallery (See Phillips Exeter Academy)
Lamont, Frances Kent
La Napoule Art Foundation
Lancaster Hotel
Lancome, Fred
Landsman, Ann
Lane Galleries
Lane, James W.
Lane, Louise
Lane, Mrs. M. L. 
Lang, Annie T., Estate of
Lang, Albert W.
Lang, Sylvan
Langley, Allen L.
Langmuir, Elizabeth C.
Lansford, Alonzo M.
Lansha Studios/Schacht Lanfranchi, Inc.
La Port, William F.
Lark, Raymond
Larkin, Adrian H.
Larsen, William T.
Lasell, Mrs. Chester W.
Laskey, Bessie
Latner, Albert J.
La Tausca Art Competition
Lathrop, J. B.
Lathrop, W. L.
Carl Laughlin Travel Services, Inc.
Laurence, Robert
Lavarack, Mrs. Henry
Lavitt, Samuel
Lawrence Art Museum (See Williams College)
Lawrence, Dorothea W.
Lawrenceville School
Lawton, Mrs. H. D.
Leake, Eugene W., Jr.
Leavy, Morton L.
Albert R. Lee and Co., Inc.
Lee, Amy Freeman
Lee, Camille
Lee, Higginson and Co. 
Lee, Jeanette
Lee, Jim
Lee, Thurman
Leed, Mrs. Richard
Lehigh University
Lehman Corp.
Leib, George
Leistner, W. E.
Leitenberg, Milton
Lelia, Santo
Lentz, Helen J.
Leonard, Charles
Leonard, Chilson H.
Lepman, Harry
Lerner, Abram (See also Joseph H. Hirshhorn Collection)
Lerner Publications Company
Leshner, Theodore
Lesmez, Eugene W.
Levenson, Conrad
Lever, Hayley
Levi, Julian
Lewin, Mr. and Mrs. Richard M.
Levitt, Harvey
Levitt, Irving
Levy, Harold M.
John Levy High Class Paintings
Levy, Leonard
Levy, Lilian
Levy, Muriel Streeter
Levy, Norman
Lewis, Clarence
Lewis Gallery
Lewis, Harold
Lewis, Hunt
Lewis, Joan M.
Lewis, John F.
Lewis, Madison H.
Lewisohn, Adolph
Lewisohn, Sam A.
Lewiston Evening Journal
Libor, Henzion
Library of Congress
Liebman, Mrs. Charles J.
Lieberman, Meyer F.
Life
Light, Robert M.
Limited Editions Club
Lincoln Safe Deposit Co. 
Lindborg, Carl
Lindeberg, H. T.
Lindquist, Gerald E.
Line, Francis R.
Lipscomb, Herbert C.
Lissim, Linda
Lister, Jeanne
Little, Anna E.
Little, Brown and Co. 
Little Gallery (Princeton)
Little Gallery (Chatham, Mass.)
Little Gallery in the Woods (See also Seachrist, Effie)
Little Red School House
Living American Art
Livingston, Crawford
Lloyd, Marion H.
Locke, Caroline T.
Lockman, DeWitt
Lockwood, Helen D.
Loeb, Judy Krueger
Loew, Mellita S.
Loew's Hotels
Lofstrom, James E.
Logan, Robert Fuller
Long Beach Island Foundation of Art
Longendyke, Adele
Look
Lord, Ann
Lord, Don
Lord, Evelyn Rumsey
Lord, Rhoda
Lorne, Naomi
Los Angeles County Fair Association
Los Angeles County Museum of History, Science and Art
Louchheim, William S.
Louisiana State University
Louisvillve Art Association
Lowe, Mrs. Arthur
Joe and Emily Lowe Art Gallery (See University of Miami)
Lowell Art Association
Lowenthal, Milton and Edith
Lowes, Raymond
Lowman, Mrs. Lawrence
Julius Lowy, Inc.
Lubitz, Harvey
Lucas, Charles C., Jr.
Ludgin, Earle
Ludington, Whight
Luks, George and Maude C.
Luks, Will
J. Luria, Inc.
Lutz, Dexter N.
Luyber, Joseph
Lyall and Taylor Insurance
Lycett, Philip
Lyde, J.
Lyke, Hyatt
Lyle, Henry H. M.
Lyman Allyn Museum
Lynde, J. U.
Lyndon, A. J.
Lyon, Winifred H.
Lyster, Bernice
MacArthur, Mr. and Mrs. Charles
William Macbeth, Inc./Robert G. MacIntyre
MacDermott, Stewart
MacDonald, Joan
MacDonald, John D.
MacDonald, Rae
MacDonald, Mrs. T. R.
MacDowell Colony
MacGregor Family
MacIver, Ian T.
Charles H. MacNider Museum
R. H. Macy and Co.
Madden, Rena G.
Madeira, Eleanor
Thomas F. Madigan Autographs of Celebrities
Magazine of Art
Magee, Rena Tucker
Magill, Arthur
Magnolia Improvement Society
Magriel, Paul
Maguire, Mrs. R. S.
Maine Art Gallery
Maine Coast Artists
Majer, Josef
Maldarelli, O.
Malinowski, Henry
Malkin, Mrs. Henry
Mallery, Rosemary
Mallon, Paul
Michael Malloy Gallery
Maloney, Louise B.
Manchester Trust Co.
Mancuso, Frank
Mandel, E. Estelle
Mandelbaum, Robert A.
Mandor, Milton
Mangione, Pat and Jerry
Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital
Manhattan Storage and Warehouse Co. (See also Morgan Brothers and the Manhattan Storage Co.)
Mann, Alan N.
Mansfield, Burton
Mantz, Harold C.
Manufacturers Life Insurance Co. 
Manufacturers Trust Co.
Mapel, Betty Lou
March, Mrs. Frederic
Marcy, Bessie L.
Marechal, Greet
Marietta College
Marin, Norma and John C., Jr.
Mark, Jerome
Markel, Betty
Markowitz, Mrs. Irving
Marquand, Mary
Marquette University
Marquis, Mrs. J. B.
Marsh, James R.
Marsh, Reginald and Felicia Meyer Marsh
Marsh Estate
Marshall, E. M.
Marshall, Fey
Marshall, Mrs. George
Marshall, Lenore G.
Mary Washington College
Massilon Museum
Master Institute of United Arts
Matheson, D. A.
Mathey, Dean
Matt, D.
Mattatuck Museum
Matulka, Jan
Mauran, William L.
Mawhinney, Grace B.
May, John E.
May, Marjorie
Mayer, Bena Frank
Mayer, Francis G.
Mayo, W. L.
William Douglas McAdams, Inc.
McBride, Henry
McBride, Lucia M.
McCabe, Jane Hall
McCall Corp. 
McCann, Franklin T.
McCann, Juliette
McCarthy, Ed
McCarthy, Richard D.
McCarthy, William A.
McClees Galleries
McClintock, Pamela
McCollum, Elaine
McCoy, John W., II
McCoy, Lawrence R.
McCullough, Rea
McCurrach, George A.
McDermid, Alice C. and Ralph M.
McDonough, Mrs. McEvoy, Jay
McFadden, George
McGibney, Bruce
McGilvery, Laurence
McGreevy, Milton
McHugh, Alice P.
McIlhenny, Henry P.
McInnes, Mrs. Frank
McIntyre, Anne H.
McIntyre, Robert G. (See William MacBeth, Inc.)
McKeand, W. M.
McKillop, William
McKim, William L.
McLean, Doris Porter
McLeod, G. L.
McMillan, Mary
McMurray, Elizabeth Ann
Marion Koogler McNay Art Institute
McRae, Frances E.
McVeigh, Blake
McVitty, Albert E.
Mearns, Hugh 
Mechau, Frank A. and Paula
Mechenig, Ethel Love
Medvin, Henry
Meis, Mary
Meilach, Donna Z.
Melchers, Gary
Meltzer, Paul
Paul Meltzer Gallery (See also National Serigraph Society)
Meltzer, Manford
Meltzer, Milton
Melville, Robert
Memorial Art Gallery (See Rochester Memorial Art Gallery)
Memphis Academy of Arts
Mendelowitz, Daniel M.
Mental Health Association of Westchester County, Inc.
Merchandising Factors, Inc. Advertising
Meredith, Burgess
Meredith and Grew Real Estate
Merida Gallery, Inc.
Merrill, Charles E.
Merritt, Arthur H.
Messick, Ben
Messmore, Carman
Meta Mold Aluminum Co. 
Metcalf, Conger
Metcalf, Elizabeth P.
Metcalf, Houghton B.
Metcalf, Thomas
Metcalf, Willard L.
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Pictures (See Gibbons, Cedric)
Metropolitan Galleries
Metropolitan Museum of Art
Metropolitan Young Artists Show
Metz, M. R.
Meyer, Felicia (See Marsh, Reginald and Felicia Meyer)
Meyer, H. D.
Meyer, Mrs. John D.
Meyers, A.
Meyers, Annette
Meyers, Evelyn
Miami Beach Public Library and Art Center
Michigan State College/Michigan State University
Middendorf, J. William, II
Middendorf, Robert
Middlebury College
Midtown Galleries
E. and A. Milch, Inc./Milch Gallery
Miller, Mrs. Byron D., Sr.
Miller, Elam
Miller, Flora Whitney
Miller, Imogene P.
Miller, John H.
Miller, Kenneth Hayes and Helen
Miller, Lawrence K.
Miller, Max
Miller, Robert Darrah
Miller, Stanley H.
Milligan, Joan
Millonzi, Robert I.
Mills College
Milwaukee Art Institute/Milwaukee Art Center
Minewski, Alex
Minneapolis Institute of Arts
Minnesota State Fair
Minster, Leonard B.
Mint Museum of Art
Mintz, Raymond
Mississippi Art Association, Inc.
Mitchell, Bruce
Mitchell, Francis
Mitchell, Phyllis H.
Mitchell, William R. K.
Mitcheson, Robert S. J.
Mladinich, George (See also Athena Gallery, Inc.)
Modern Art Studio
Moessel, Julius
Moffett, Ross
Moir, Alexander
Montague, W. P.
Montana State College
Montclair Art Museum
Montgomery, Anita C.
Montreal, Mayor of
Montreal Window Cleaning Co.
Montross, N. E.
Monumental Storage and Carpet Cleaning Co.
Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moon, Owen, Jr.
Moor Institute of Art, Science and Industry
Moore, Fanny H.
Moore Galleries
Moore, Gladys G.
Moore, Mrs. Joseph A., Jr.
Moore, Martha E.
Mopper, Coleman
More, Herman
Moreno, Jean Anderson
Morey, Mrs. L. B.
Morgan Brothers and the Manhattan Storage Co. (See also Manhattan Storage and Warehouse Co.)
Morgan, John P., II
Morgan, Patrick
Morganthau, Mrs. Henry, Jr.
Mories, B. L. 
Moross, Jerome
Donald Morris Gallery
Morris, Harrison S.
Morris, Willamene S.
Morrissey, Clara
Morse, A. R.
Morse, Margaret
Morse, Peter
Morse, Richard E.
Morten, Marjory
Morton, Mrs. David
Morton, Richard H.
Morton, Sylvia P. and Sterling 
Moses, Lillian L.
Mott, Luther W.
Mount, Charles Merrill
Mount Holyoke College
Muir, Warner
Mulcey, Paul A.
Mulligan, Mrs. Ralph C.
Mullins, Helene
Munsell, Richard
Munson, George S.
Munson Williams Proctor Institute
Murdock, A. M.
Murdock Louise P., Estate of 
Murphy, Catherine M.
Murphy, Edward
Murphy, Fred T.
Murphy, Mrs. J. Francis
Murphy, James P.
Museum of Fine Arts, Boston
Museum of Fine Arts, Houston
Museum of Fine Arts, Little Rock
Museum of New Mexico
Museum of the City of New York
Music Corporation of America
Musselman, Darwin 
Musselman, David L.
Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Co.
Myers, Charles A., Jr.
Myers, Jerome
Mystic Art Association, Inc.
Nadherny, Mrs.
Nadler, D.
Nagle, James W.
Namuth, Hans
Narell, Irena
Nathan, Ann
Nathan, Fred L.
Nathanson, Bernard
Nathanson, Win
Nation
National Academy of Design
National Aid to Visually Handicapped
National Alliance of Art and Industry
National Art Week
National Association of Fine Arts Dealers, Inc.
National Association of Women Artists
National City Bank
National Collection of Fine Arts (See Smithsonian Institution)
National Conference of Christians and Jews
National Council of Jewish Women, Essex County Section
National Council of Jewish Women, Patterson Section
National Council of Jewish Women, Westport Section
National Council of Women of the United States, Inc.
National Cystic Fibrosis Research Foundation
National Gallery
National Institute of Arts and Letters
National Jewish Hospital at Denver
National Serigraph Society/Serigraph Galleries (See also Meltzer Gallery)
National Society of Mural Painters
National Town and Country Club, New York Chapter
Nauman, F. R.
Navas, Elizabeth (See Murdock, Louise P., Estate of)
Neague, Anna
Neale, Mrs. Charles T.
Nebel, Rose
Nebraska Art Association
Neikrug, Mrs. S.
Neiman-Marcus
Nelson, Mr. and Mrs. George Laurence 
Nelson, Prudence
Rolf Nelson Gallery
Nesin, Rose A.
Netherlands Information Service
Netherlands Insurance Co.
Netter, Terrence
Neuberger, Roy R.
Neville, Mrs. John F.
New Amsterdam Casualty Co.
New Canaan Library Art Committee
New England Telephone and Telegraph Co. 
New Gallery, Inc.
New Jersey State Museum
New School
New World Illustrated
New York Arts Festival
New York Association for the Blind
New York Central Lines
New York City, Board of Education
New York City, Bureau of Records
New York City, Department of Finance
New York City, Department of Health
New York City, Department of Welfare
New York County Supreme Court
New York Edison Co.
New York Guild for the Jewish Blind
New York Historical Society
New York Infirmary
New York Journal American
New York Leader
New York Psychoanalytic Institute
New York Public Library
New York Regional Art Council
New York Society for Ethical Culture/Fieldston-Ethical Alumni Association
New York State, Department of Law
New York State, Department of Taxation and Finance
New York State, Division of Employment
New York State, Income Tax Bureau
New York State Education
New York State Exposition
New York Telephone Co.
New York Times
New York Trust Co.
New York University
New York Woman
New Yorker
Newark Museum Association/Newark Museum
Newberry, John S., Jr.
Newbold, T. T.
Newcomb, Macklin and Co.
Newdorf, Mr.
Newell-Emmett Company
M. A. Newhouse and Son
Newkirk, Kenneth
Newman, Robert L.
Newman, Roslyn
Newsweek
Newton, Mr. and Mrs. J. R.
Newton, Max
Newton, Parker
Nichols, Mrs. Charles W.
Nichols, Spencer
Nicolosi, Lucy
Nieman, Harry
Niese, Henry
Niesley, Elise
Nikkel, Vernon
Nisbet, Robert H.
Nisenson, Alvin
Nishida, H.
Nittany Lion Inn
Noehren, Theodore
Nordness Gallery
Norfolk Museum of Arts and Sciences
North Carolina State College of Agriculture
North Shore Arts Festival
North Shore Breeze
North Shore Child Guidance Association
North Shore Press, Inc.
Norton Gallery and School of Art/Palm Beach Art League, Inc.
Norton, Gertrude M.
Norton, Louis D.
Norton, Ralph H. (See Norton Gallery and School of Art/Palm Beach Art League, Inc.)
Norton, Mrs. Thomas H.
Noselson, Kalman Uris
Notman and Co.
November, Sara D.
Oakland Art Museum
Oalses, Mrs. John B.
Oberlin College
Oberteuffer, George and May P. F.
M. O'Brien and Son
O'Brien's Art Emporium
Oceanside and Cottages
Ochtman, Dorothy
O'Connell, J. Harlin
O'Connor, John, Jr.
O'Connor, Joseph J.
Odom, Jamie
O'Dowd, John A.
Oehlschlaeger, Frank J.
Oenslaeger, Donald
Office of Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs
Offin Advertising/Charles Z. Offin
Ogilvie, Hanson S.
O'Hara, Shirley Putnam (Mrs. Eliot)
Ohio State University
Ohio Water Color Society
Oklahoma Art Center
Oklahoma Print Makers Society
Old Mill Gallery
Old Print Shop, Inc.
Old Town Galleries
Olds, Elizabeth
Olds, George S.
Olds, Halsey Knapt
Olds, Stoughton
O'Leary, Edward
Olinger, Grover
O'Neil, Cyril F., Jr.
O'Neill, C. F.
Oppenhiem, Laurent
O'Reilly, Edward G.
O'Reilly, Thomas J.
Orling, Anne
Ornstein, Peter
O'Rourke, Gladys
Orr, Elliott
Orviz, Mrs. Hardin
Osborne, Robert G.
Ossorio, Josephine B.
Osterkamp-Mead Corp. 
Overlook
Overseas Press Club of America, Inc.
Owen Gallery, Inc.
Pacific Art Review
Packard, Edwin
Packard, Rosa Covington
Padawer Prize for Drawing
Paddock, Willard
Page, Ruth
Pagent
Paine, P. S.
Paintings of the Year (See Pepsi Cola's Annual Art Competition)
Pall, David B. and Helen R.
Palm Beach Art League, Inc. (See Norton Gallery and School of Art)
Palm Beach Galleries
Palmedo, Roland
Palmer, Edla W. 
Palmer, Fred L.
Palmer, George S.
Palmer, Mrs. Paul
Palmer, William H.
Palmer, William J.
Pancoast, Minnie
Paradise, Phil
Paramount Die Casting Co.
Park East News, Inc.
Park Avenue Gallery
Park Gallery
Parke-Bernet Galleries, Inc.
Parker, Evelyn Naegle
Parker, George
Parker, Inez Grant
King Parker, Inc.
Parker, Mrs.
Parkin, Jewell
Parkinson, Elizabeth
Parks, Henry Francis
Parris Art Museum
Parsons, Virginia B.
Paskus, Gordon and Hyman
Passedoit Gallery
Patrick, James H.
Pattison, Priscilla
Paul, D.
Paullin, Ethel Parsons
Paxton, John L.
Payson, Joan
Peabody, Julian
Pearce, Josephine S.
Pearce, W. Ray
Pearlman, Samuel
Pease, Mrs. F. R.
Pease and Elliman
Pedlar and Ryan, Inc.
Pell, Madeline B.
Penguin Books, Inc.
Penguin Studio
Penn, Dorothy N.
William Penn Publishing Corporation
Penney, Charles P., Jr.
Pennsylvania Railroad
Pennsylvania State College/Pennsylvania State University
Pensacola, Florida, Chamber of Commerce
Pepper, Charles Hovey
Pepsi Cola's Annual Art Competition, Paintings of the Year
Perkins, Harley
Frank Perls Gallery
Perrine, Van Deering
Perry, Louis
Persons, Simmons
Perutz, George J.
Peter, Armistead, III
Peters, Philip H., Jr.
Pettersen, Richard
Pettus, Isabelle M.
Pfeiffer, Charles Leonard
Pfeiffer, Heinrich
Phelps, George A.
Philadelphia Museum of Art
Philadelphia Trade and Convention Center
Philadelphia Water Color Society
Philbrook Art Center
Phillips Exeter Academy, Lamont Gallery
Phillips, N. C.
Phillips, W. E.
Phipps, Mrs. John S.
Phipps, Mr. and Mrs. Ogden
Phoenix Art Museum
Phoenix Engraving Co. 
Phoenix Fine Arts Association
Picarello, Frank E.
Picken, George
Pickett, Grace
Blanche and Jerome W. Pickett Foundation
Pictures on Exhibit
Piedmont Festival, Inc.
Pigmalion
Pillsbury, Jane
Pioneer Museum and Haggin Galleries
Piper, Raymond F.
Pirie, Robert
Pitcairn, Raymond
Pitman and Brown Co.
Pitt Scott Corp.
Pittsburgh Building Co.
Pittsburgh Post
Pittsburgh Water Color Society
Pizzini, Irene S.
Platt, Mrs. Geoffrey
Plavcan, Joseph M.
Plaza Art Galleries, Inc.
Pleadwell, Theodora
Plumb, Ralph
Plunguian, Gina
Pocket Books, Inc.
Police Athletic League, Inc.
R. L. Polk and Co., Inc.
Pollack, Augustus
Pollet, Joseph
Pollock, Muriel
Pomeroy, Elsie Tower
Pomeroy, Henry K.
Pomfret School
Pougialis, Constantine
Poon, Daniel
Poor, Ann
Poor Richard Club of Philadelphia
Poplack, Richard M.
Poplack, William J.
Popolizio, Vincent J.
Port-A-Wall
Porter, C. B.
Porter, Fairfield
Porter, James W.
Portland Art Museum (Oregon)
Portland Museum of Art (Maine)
Portraits, Inc.
Posner, John Jacob
Post, Georgia A.
Post
Post, Shelley 
Postgraduate Center for Psychotherapy, Inc.
Postmaster, Grand Central Station
Potamkin, Mrs. M. P.
Potomac School
Potter, Mrs. H. A.
Potter, Mrs. John B.
Potter, Mrs. William J.
Powell, Adelaide
Powell, Leslie
Powell, Mrs. T. I. Hare
Powers, Richard Gorman
Powers, Richard M.
Pratt, George W.
Preiss Trading Corp.
Prendergast, Charles W.
Prentice, Mr. and Mrs. Clarence C.
Prentice-Hall, Inc.
Presnal, W. B.
Pressler, Frederick
Preston, Malcolm H.
Prezzi, Wilma
Price, E. Y.
Vincent Price Collection (See Sears, Roebuck and Co.)
Princeton Merchants' Exhibition
Print Club
Proctor, Eleanor M.
Profile Press
Promenade
Providence Art Club
Provincetown Art Association
Provincetown Arts Festival
Psaropulos, Theodore
Public Education Association
Publicover, W. A.
Pueblo Junior College
Pulitzer, Ralph
Pulling, Edward
Purdue University
Purvis, Don
Puterbaugh, Edith L.
Putnam, Esther W.
Pyle, Mrs. Howard
Quaker Ridge Parent Teacher Association
Quarrie Corp. Publishers
Quinby, Henry C.
Quinlan, Laura
Quirk, Francis J.
Rabin, Nathan
Ernest Raboff Gallery
Alexander Rabow Galleries
Radwick, R. Vance
Raffo, Steve
Rahming, Mrs. Norris
Rahr, Mrs. Philip
Railway Express Agency
Rains, Claude and Frances
Rand, Nellie
Randel, Mrs. L.
Randolph, Frances
Ranells, Neil J.
Raphael, A.
Rasko, Joseph
Rattner, Ruth
Rawson, Catherine G.
Read, Helen Appleton
Realty Management, Inc.
Reasoner, David
Record, Dorothy
Redmond, Peter L.
Reed, Adrienne
Brooks Reed Gallery, Inc.
Reed, Mark
Reed, Walt
Rees, Clarence E.
Reese, H. P.
Regan Bros.
Regan, Frank A.
Regency Hotel
Regier, Harold M.
Rehn, Frank L. (cousin)
Rehn, Kitty
Rehn, Margaret Selby (mother)
Rehn, Peggy Wrenn (first wife)
Reich, Sheldon
C. J. Reid and Co., Inc.
Reid, John C.
Reiffel, Charles
Reilly, Paul M.
Henry Reinhardt and Son Galleries, Inc.
Reisner, Mrs.
Reiss, Jacob
Renthal, Charles H.
Resor, Mrs. Stanley
Reubling, Agnes
Reynal and Hitchcock, Inc.
Reynolds, Mrs. Jackson
Reynolds, L. M.
Reynolds, Mrs. M. A.
Rhana, Jim
Rheinstein, Sidney
Rhind, J. Massey
Rhode Island School of Design and Museum of Art
Rhodes, Mrs. Leland S.
De Ricowsky, D.
Rich, Adelaide Steere
Rich, Jack C.
Rich, Mr. and Mrs. Walter H.
Richards, Mary
Richards, Meryl
Richards, Ravland
Richardson, Beverley
Richmond Area University Center
Rifocar
Rifkin, Beatrice
Riggs, Robert
Rike-Kumler Co.
Riley, Chapin and Mary Alexander
Rindfoos, C. S.
John and Mabel Ringling Museum of Art
Rittler, Ralph L.
River Dell Senior High School
River Road Gallery
Riverside Museum (See also Master Institute of United Arts, Inc.)
Riwchun, Meyer H.
Robb, W.
Robbins, Raisa
Roberson Memorial Center
Roberts, Betty 
Roberts, C. Purcell
Roberts, Elizabeth W.
Roberts, Mrs. G. Brinton
Roberts, Isaac W.
Roberts, Ruth C.
Robertson, Retta
Robinett, William L.
Robins, Louisa
Robinson, Bernardine
Robinson, Mrs. Chalfant
Robinson, Edward G.
Robinson, Ina
Robinson, Mary Turlay
Roby, Mrs. Joseph
Sara Roby Foundation
Roche, Robert
Rochester Memorial Art Gallery
Rockefeller, David
Rockefeller, Mrs. John D., III
Rockefeller, Nelson A.
Rockland Foundation
Rockland State Hospital
Rogers, Mrs. Benjamin
Rogers, Charles B.
Rogers, Mrs. Francis
Rogers, Mrs. Huddleston
Rogers, Mrs. M.
Rogers, William A.
Rogers, Winifred W.
Rogols, Barney B.
Rohland, Paul
Rohlf, J. A.
Rohn, Florence W.
Rohr, Norma Lee
Rohrer, Warren
Rolick, Esther G.
Rolins College
Rollo, Joe
Roman, Herbert A.
Rome, Mr. and Mrs. Morton E.
Rook, Edward F.
Rooney, Mrs. Alfred
Roos, Alexander
Roos, Beatrice Adams
Roos, Mrs. C. P.
Roos, Frank
Roosevelt Field Art Center, Inc.
Roosevelt, Franklin D. (about)
Root, Edward W. and Grace
Roren, Lydia
Rosch, Mabel
Rose, Billy
Rosebrook, Jean F.
Rosen, A.
Rosen, Charles and Jean
Rosen, Samuel
Rosenbloom, Charles J.
Julius Rosenwald Fund
Ann Ross Gallery
Ross, Jane
Ross, Sheldon
Roth, Otto
Rothman, Dr. and Mrs. Martin A.
Rothman, Neville N., Jr. and Mary
Rotunda Gallery (See City of Paris, Rotunda Gallery)
Roupp, Helen C.
Royal Art Framing
Rozar, Morris
Rozmus, Michael, Jr.
Rubenstein, Lewis
Rubin, J.
Ruder and Finn Associates
Rudick, Harry J. and Rose
Rudin Management Co., Inc.
Ruebling, Agnes
Ruff, A. B.
Rumsey, David
Rush, Elizabeth
Rush, H. Stockton
Russell, Bols
Russell, Marie L.
Russell, Rosemary K.
Russell, Sue Powers
Russell, Mrs. Thomas C.
Russell, Walter J.
Russo, Alexander
Sacco, Giovanni
Saginaw Museum
St. Alban's School
St. Botolph Club
Saint-Gaudens Memorial
St. Louis Artists' Guild
St. Paul Gallery and School of Art
Salem College
Salmagundi Club
Salman, David M.
Saltpeter, Harry
Saltonstall, Elizabeth 
Saltonstall, Nathaniel
Samson, Mr. and Mrs. Charles F.
Samstag, Gordon
Samuels, Ruth G.
San Diego Fine Arts Festival, Inc.
San Francisco Museum of Art
San Joaquin Light and Power Corporation
San Jose State College
Sanborn, Nestor
Sandberg, Gladys
Birger Sandzen Memorial Gallery
Sanger, Edwina C.
Santa Barbara Museum of Art
Sappe, Anthony
Sarachek Fine Arts
Saretzky, Mrs. Gary D.
Sargent, John Singer
Sargood, Amy
Sarkisian, Sarkis
Sasowsky, Norman
Saturday Evening Post
Sauder, I. Emanuel
Sauer, Ted
Sauers, John F.
Saul, Maurice B.
Saunders, Olivia
Saunders, Silvia
Savage, Dorothy
Savage, Mabel
Savage, Paul
Savage, Mrs. Philip J.
Saving Fund Society of Germantown
Sawyer, Alice
Sawyer, Mrs. Ansley
Sawyer, Maureen
Sawyer, Wells M.
Scarborough, Elizabeth
Schacht Lanfranchi, Inc. (See Lansha Studios)
Shaefer, F. M.
Shaeffer Galleries
Schaffer, Estelle
Schanck, George
Schauffler, Robert McE.
Scheer, Eli
Scheerer, Mrs. H. F.
Scheiber, Israel Ben
Scheirich, Alma
Scherman, Mrs. Harry
Schimmel, David and Inez R.
Schmidlapp, Mrs. Carl
Schmidt, Frances
Schmidt, Katherine
Schnabel, Paul
Schnackenberg, Henry
Schneider, Jo Anne
Schneiderman, I. Arthur and Lucile M.
Seymour Schneiderman and Associates
Schnitzer, Kurt
School Art League of New York City
School of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston (See also Museum of Fine Arts, Boston)
School of Visual Arts
Schouten, Charles E.
Schrag, Karl
Schramm, Dorothy and James S.
Schulte, Antoinette
Henry Schultheis Co.
Schulze, Paul
Schumm, Henrietta M.
Schwartz, Alan E.
Schwartz, Eric
Schwartz, Jeff
Schwartz, Nancy
Schwartz Galleries (Samuel Schwartz)
Schweider, Arthur
Schweitzer, M. R.
Schweizer, Mrs. Ralph George 
Science Illustrated
Scobey, H. C.
Scollin, E. A.
Scorah, William E.
Scott and Fowles
Scott, Earl
Scott, Jonathan
Scott, William E.
Scribner, Mrs. Arthur
Charles Scriber's Sons
Scripps College
Seachrist, Effie (See also Little Gallery in the Woods)
Sears, Roebuck and Co. (Vincent Price Collection)
Sears, S. M. 
Seattle Art Museum
Security Storage Co.
Segat, Albert and Minnie
Seiberling, John F.
Seiberling, John F., Jr.
Seidman, Mrs. Frank E.
Seiff, Arthur
Semans, Mary
Senf, Mary Morrissey
Sepeshy, Zoltan
Serpa, Edward F.
Service Men's Committee
Sesquicentennial International Exposition
Charles Sessler, Bookseller
Seventeen
Sewell, William J.
Sexton, John L.
Shand, Robert G.
Shannon, Mr. and Mrs. Ogden K.
Shapiro, Daisy V.
Shapiro, Hilda
Shapiro, Morton
Sharison, Saul S.
Sharon Creative Arts
Sharp and Dohme
Sharpe, Mary Elizabeth
Sharpe, Mrs. N.
Sharpless, Ti-Grace
Shaughnessy, Edward
Shaw, F. H.
Shaw, Mrs. George H.
Shaw, Samuel T.
Sheafer, Francis W.
Sheafer, Henry
Sheafer, Lesley Green
Sheets, Millard
Shelden, Mrs. Allen
Sheldon, Mrs. Joseph V.
Sheldon, Roy
Shell Union Oil Corp.
Shepherd College
Shepherd, George B.
Shepherd, James G.
Shepler, Dwight
Shepperd, John and Jeanne Shoemaker
Sheppart, Mark
Sherman, E. B. 
Sherman, Frederic Fairchild
Sherry Wine and Spirits Co., Inc.
Shields, M.
Shiell, Jerome A.
Shipman, Frank R.
Shipman, Louis Evan
Shippee, Robert
Shippen, Richard
Shively, Paul
Shore Studio Galleries
Shorey, George H.
Shorewood Publishers, Inc.
Shortess, George K.
Shubert, Irvine J.
Shulman, Herman
Shulman, Morris
Shulof and Co., Inc.
Shulof, Joseph
Shum, Alden F.
Siden, Franklin D.
Siegle, Fred
Sills and Co.
Silvermine Guild of Artists, Inc.
Simon, Charles
Simon, Howard
Simon, Mrs. Maron J.
Simpson, Alex, Jr.
Simpson, Mrs. Kelly
Sims, A.
Sisti Gallery
Skelton, Mrs. Owen R.
Skidelsky, Sibilla
Skidmore College
Skillman Express and Storage Co.
Skinner, Joseph A.
Sklenar, V. H.
Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture
Slater Memorial Museum
Slatin, Yeffe Kimball (See Kimball, Yeffe V.)
Slatkin, Burton
Sloan, Mrs. B. B.
Sloan Galleries of American Paintings (See Valparaiso University)
Sloan, John F.
Robert S. Sloan Gallery
W and J Sloane
Slocum, John J.
Slosberg, Helen
Slotnick, M.
Slusser, Jean Paul
Smeltzer, Ann
Smillie, George H.
Smilow-Thielle Corp.
Smith, Benjamin Biggs
Smith, Cecil
Smith, Charles F.
Smith, Charles W.
Smith College Museum of Art
Smith, David L.
Smith, Frances E. H.
Smith, Francis Drexel
George Walter Vincent Smith Art Museum
Smith, Gertrude Rumsey
Smith, H. A. Hammond
Smith, Henry
Smith, James MacGregor
Smith, James U., Jr.
Smith, Lloyd Pierce
Smith, Louis Miller
Mollie Smith Gallery
Smith, R. Earl
Smith, Mrs. Solwin
Smith, Mrs. Sydney
Smith, Mrs. W. H.
Smith, Wallace H.
Smith, William G., Jr.
Smithsonian Institution (includes United States National Museum and National Collection of Fine Arts)
Smyth, Urquhart and Marckwald, Inc.
Smythe, Elizabeth
Snow, Charles M.
Snow, Frederic W.
Snow, Walter
Snyder, Henry Hale
Snyderman, Joy
Soby, James T.
Social Security Board
Society of American Etchers, Inc.
Society of Arts and Crafts
Society of Designer-Craftsmen
Society of Liberal Arts (See Joslyn Memorial)
Society of the Four Arts
Soler-Roig, J.
Solomon, A. K.
Solomon, Frank
Sommers, Norman and Judith
Sommers, Sheldon Charles
Sosland, David N. and Rheta
Sosland, Louis
Sosland, Sanders
South Bend Art Association
South County Art Association
Southern Christian Leadership Conference
Southern Illinois University
Southern Vermont Art Center
Southern Vermont Artists, Inc.
Southwest Texas State College
Southwestern Art Association
Soyer, Raphael
Speier, Robert W.
Speigel, Mrs. M. J., Jr.
Speight, Francis
Speiser, Maurice J.
Speizman, Sylvia
Spencer, Girard L.
Spencer, Robert
Spencer, Thomas G.
Speyer, Everett G.
Spiller, Mortimer
Spiro, Harry
Spivack, S. S.
Spook Farm Gallery
Sprague, Mrs. Frank J.
Spreckles, Mrs. Adolph
Spreter, R. S.
Sprinchorn, Carl
Springfield Art Museum (Mo.)
Springfield Museum of Fine Arts (Mass.)
Springold, N. B.
Springville High School Art Association
Spruance, Benton
Squier, Charles E.
Squier, Margery A.
Stahl, David G.
Stallforth, Frederico
Stamford Museum and Nature Center
Stark, Janet C.
Starring, Mason D., III
State College of Washington
State Fair of Texas
State University of Iowa
Staten Island Institute of Arts and Sciences
Stathos, Bill
Steadman, William E.
Stein, Charles F.
Steinbomer, Harris B. and Julie
Steinbomer, Henry
Steine, David
Steiner, Jacqueline
Steinman, Shirley Watkins
Steinmetz, Grace T.
Stephens, Barry
Stern Brothers
Stern, Sheldon D.
Sternberg, Margaret
Sterns, Gladys
Stevens, Mrs. Daniel
Stevens, Farrington
Stevens, John Calvin
Stevens, Lawrence Tenney
Stevens, M. S.
Stillman, Helen
Robert L. Stillson Co.
Stimson, Candace
Stimson, Willa
Stocker, Edith
Pauline Stone Gallery
Storm King Art Center
Story, Oscar P.
Strater, Charles G.
Strater, Michael Henry
Straus, E. K.
Straus, Gerhard D.
Straus, John W.
Straus, Robert D.
Strickland, Ed
Streitmann, George H.
Stringham, Edwin John
Stromsted, Astri
Stuart, Beatrice
Stuart Galleries
Stuart, Kenneth
Studio Publications
Stucki, Margaret E.
Sues, Bargara
Sugarman, Mark
Sulecki, Mrs. John
Sullivan, S.
Summit Art Association
Sundberg, Alan
Super Service Motor Freight Co.
Sutphin, Samuel Reid
Suter, Samuel
Suttorn, Ruth H.
Swedish American Line
Sweeney, Thomas W.
Sweet Briar College
Swinney, Walter
Sylvester, Albert L. and Elizabeth
Sylvia, Marshall
Syracuse Museum of Fine Arts (See also Everson Museum of Art)
Syracuse University
System Magazine
Taber, George H.
Tagliabue, Charles
Talbot, G. B.
Talbott, Charles H.
Talman, Bigelow, Whittmore, Ltd.
Tangwell, Tor Ake
Tannahill, Mary H.
Tannahill, Robert H.
Tannen, Robert
Tarbuth Gallery
Tarleton, Mrs. M. L.
Tate and Hall, Inc.
Taylor, Charles G.
Taylor, Fay
Kenneth Taylor Galleries
Taylor, Leslie B.
Taylor, Prentiss
Teater, Patricia
Teitelbaum, Edith
Temple, Mrs. Alan
Temple Beth El
Temple Rodeph Sholom
Templeton, Robert
Templin, Walter W.
Temstrom, M.
Ten Eyck, Barent
Tenney, Kathryn L.
Tepper, Benjamin
Terbill, Mrs. J. B.
Terner, Jacob and Sandra W.
Terrell, Allen R.
Terry Art Institute
Thaison, Mrs. A.
Thal, Adrian
Thayer, Gerald H.
Theatre Magazine
Thiele, Alice K.
13 West Gallery
Thom, Edgar R.
Thomas, Mrs. Clifford
Thomas, Grace D.
Thomas, J.
Thompson, E.
Thompson, G. Albert
Thompson, Mayanko
Thompson, Milton S.
Thompson, Payson
Thorne, Mrs. S. B.
Thorward, Clara
Three Rivers Arts Festival 
Thuss, Louise B.
Thut, Emil
Tice and Lynch, Inc.
Tiffany and Co.
Louis Comfort Tiffany Foundation
Tilney, Mrs. Bedford
Tilyo, Edward F. and Marie H.
Time
Timken, Mrs. W. R.
Timmins, George
Tims, H.
Tinson, Julia C.
Titelman, Frank M.
Titelman, Richard
Title Guarantee and Trust Co.
Tobins, Jane Corli
Todd, Arthur
Toledo Blade
Tomkins, C., Jr.
Tompkins, Mr. and Mrs. Frederick
Tompkins, Winslow
Tomlin, Bradley Walker
Tooker, George
Toplis and Harding, Inc.
Tornello, Robert L.
Toth, Robert Bela
Town and Country Gallery
Town and Country Magazine
Town Garage
Townsend, J. I., Jr.
Tracy, Bartlett
Tracy, Spencer
A. Traina and Co., Inc.
John E. D. Trask, Inc.
Trattler, Charles Stewart
Travelers Insurance Co.
Traver, George A.
Travis and Parks
Trebilcock, Paul
Trentham, Eugene
Trevor, Mrs. Horace B.
Trinity College
Trivigno, Pat
Tucker, Allen
Tucker, Samuel A.
Tucker, William E., Jr.
Tucson Art Center, Inc.
Tudor Publishing Co.
Tudor, Rosamund
Tulp, Ellen
Turnbeth, Mary
Turnbull, Grace H.
Turner, Helen M.
Turpin, Charles S.
Tuthill, William H.
Tutle, Day
Tuxedo Park School
Tweed Gallery
Tweed, Harrison
Uhlmann, R. Hugh
Ulmer, w. L.
Underwood Corp.
Underwood, Ethel T.
United Federation of Postal Clerks
United Fruit Co.
United Hospital Fund of New York
United Jewish Appeal
United Modern Art in Boston
United National Association of Post Office (Clerks') Craftsmen
United Nations Children's Fund/UNICEF
United Nations Tribute and International Festival of Arts
United Republican Finance Committee
United States Committee of the International Association of Plastic Arts
United States Department of the Army
United States Department of Justice
United States Department of Labor
United States Department of State
United States Foreign Service
United States House of Representatives, Ways and Means Committee
United States National Museum (See Smithsonian Institution)
United States Office of War Information
United States Treasury Department
United States War Department
United States War Production Board
University Club
University of Arizona
University of California, Los Angeles
University of Georgia
University of Illinois, Krannert Art Museum
University of Kansas
University of Kentucky
University of Maine
University of Manitoba
University of Maryland
University of Miami, Joe and Emily Lowe Art Gallery
University of Michigan
University of Minnesota, Duluth
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis
University of Missouri
University of Montana
University of New Mexico
University of North Carolina
University of Oklahoma
University of Oregon
University of Pennsylvania
University of Pittsburgh
University of South Carolina
University of Southern California
University of Texas
University of Utah
University of Vermont
University of Virginia
University of Washington
University of Wisconsin, Elvehjm Art Center
University of Wyoming
University Press
University Prints
Upjohn Company
Uplinger, Mrs. J. E.
Upton, D. F.
Urig, Russel
Urquhart,Tony
Usui, Bumpei
Utica Public Library
Utley, Gordon D.
Vachon, Andrew William
Vahinger, Fred
Alfred Valente Gallery
Valparaiso University, Sloan Galleries of American Paintings
Van Buren, Jessica T.
Van Evera, Caroline
E. H. Van Ingen and Co.
Van Pelt, Andrew
Van Veen, S.
Vander Poel, H. B.
Verle Gallery
Verleger, F. Kind
Vermont, Louise
Vezin, Charles
Vidor, King
James Vigeveno Galleries
Vincent, Fred C.
Vincent, Harry A.
Virges, E. M., II
Vitale, Ferruccio
Vivino, Elmer
Vogue
Volz, Harry A.
von Keller, Beatrice
Von Stein, William G.
Voth, Harold M.
B. B. Wachtel Insurance
Waddington Galleries, Inc.
Wade, J. H.
Wadsworth, Isabella
Wager, Stella
Wagman, Evelyn L.
Wagner, Richard E.
Wakefield-Young Books
Walbridge, Norton S.
Wald, J. S.
Waldburger, Ernest R. S.
Walden School
Walker, Edith
Walker Galleries/Maynard Walker/Collectors' Finds
Walker, Harrington F.
Walker, Mrs. Hudson D.
Walker, Joseph
Walker, Maynard (See Walker Galleries)
Walker, Robert N.
Walker, Stewart
Walker, Wes
Wallace, A. B.
Wallace, Mrs. G. S.
Wallace, Josephine
Wallace, McClelland
Wallenstein, Alfred
Waller, B. G.
Wallingford, Gertrude
Wallingford, Katrina
Walsh, Henry
Walsh, John R.
Walsh, W.
Walter, Mrs. W. G.
Walters, Emile
Walther League Messenger
Walton, Joseph E.
Wands, Alfred
Warburg, Mrs. Gerald
Warburg, James P.
Warner, George B.
Warner, George C.
Warner, H. L.
Warner, Keith
Warrell, Richard
Warren, Mrs. H. E.
Warren, Whitney
Washburn, Mrs. Gordon
Washburn, Ives
Washington County Museum of Fine Arts
Washington Irving Gallery
Washington University
Wasserman, Burt
Wasson, Mrs. William A.
Watercolor Gallery
Waters, Sylvia
Watherston, Margaret M.
Watkins, Franklin C. and Ida
Watkins, Paul
Watson, Forbes and Nan
Watson, Penn R., Jr.
Watt, S. W.
Waugh, Colton
Waugh, Grace W.
Webb, E. T.
Webber, Eloise
Webber, John C.
Weber, Bill, Jr.
Weber, E. A.
Weber, Mosley
Weber, Mrs. Orlando
Webster, Hutton, Jr.
Wechsler, Mrs. Walter M.
Weed, Bertha A.
Weeks, Carl
Weidner, Roswell
Weinberger, Harry
Weingarten, Victor
Weir, Ella Baker (Mrs. J. Alden)
Weiss, Belle
Weiss, George
Weiss, Winefride J.
Weid, F. M.
Welles, Orson
Wellesley College
Wellington, Gertrude
Wells, Charles E.
Wells College
Wells, Fred N.
Wending, Erwin
Wengler, Harold
Wenner, Robert B.
Anna L. Werbe Galleries
Wesleyan University, Davison Art Center
West Valley Tea Room 
Western Association of Art Museum Directors
Westheimer, Jerome
Westminster Hotel
Westover School
Wetsman, Janis B.
Wexler, George
E. Weyhe Gallery
WGBH Television
Wheaton College
Wheeler, Charles V.
Wheeler, Steve
Wheelwright, Robert
Whelan, Gloria
Whimpfheimer, Charles A.
Whitcomb, John M.
White, Mr.
White, A. M.
White and Quinn
White, F.
White, Helen
White, Jane
White, John F.
L. F. White Co. 
White, Marion
White, Meade Fitzhugh, II
White, Paul
White, Mrs. Robert H.
William A. White and Sons
Whitehead, Jane Byrd Radcliffe
Whitehead Productions
Whitehead, Robert
Whiteley, James Gustavus
Whitney, Arthur
Whitney, Cornelius Vanderbilt
Whitney, Mrs. John Hay
Whitney Studio Club
Whittier, Ross
Whittington, Eugene
Wichita Art Association
Wick, Philip
Wiegand, Gustav
Wierke, Conrad
Wisenberg, Mrs. Louis
Wiggins, Guy C.
Wigglesworth, Frank
Wildenstein and Co., Inc.
Wilder, Ruth
Wilk, Mrs. Max
Wilkinson, Edward A.
Williams, Charles F.
Williams College, Lawrence Art Museum
Williams, E. A.
Williams, Edgar
Williams, H. A.
Williams, Hiram
Williams, Mrs. Lawrence A.
Williams, Oliver
Williams, Wayne F.
Williard, Robert P.
Willimantic State College
Willis, Betty
Willis, Mrs. Frederic A.
Wills, Mrs. W. G.
Wilmington Society of the Fine Arts
Wilson Auto Repair Shop
Wilson, Edwin Carleton
Wilson, Ralph L.
Wing, Barbara D.
Wing, James G.
Wingate, Arline
Winnipeg Art Gallery Association
Winters, Helen C.
Winton, Flora and Frank J.
Wise, Howard E.
Wislocki, George B.
Witherspoon, Mary Eleanor
Witte, Edward H., Jr.
Witte Memorial Museum/San Antonio Art League
Witter, Faith A.
Wolf, Ben and Ruth
Wolf, Stanley J.
Wolfe, William D.
Wolfert, Helen
Wolpin, Kay
Woman's Day Magazine
Woman's Home Companion
Women's American ORT
Women's Club
Wood, Franklin S.
Wood, Charles Erskine Scott
Wood, Robert W., Jr.
Ruby Ross Wood, Inc.
Woodhouse, Betty Burroughs (See also Burroughs, Betty)
Woodin, Mrs. William H.
Woodmere Art Gallery
Woodruff, Adele G.
Woodstock Artists Association
Woodward, George
Woodward, Ruth M.
Wootton, Ruby Smith
Workman, David T.
World
World Book Encyclopedia
World Collectors Annuary
World Journal Tribune, Inc.
Worldwide Press, Inc.
Worringer, Anne
Worth Avenue Gallery
Wose, Frederick
Wray, Mrs. George D., Jr.
Wrenn, Helen B. (mother of Peggy W. Rehn)
Wrenn, Mr. and Mrs. Harold H.
WRFM Radio
Wright, Clifford
Wright, H. P.
Wright, Norman Bartlett
Wulp, John
Wyer's Refrigeration
Wyeth, Andrew
Wyeth, John C.
Wylie, Adele M.
Yaddo
Yale University 
Yale University Art Gallery
Yamet Arts, Inc.
Yancey, S. foster
Yandik, Charles
Yasinow, J. B.
Year
YMCA/YWCA, Ashtabula, Ohio
YWCA, Fredericksburg, Va.
YMHA/YWHA, Essex Co., N.J.
Yocom, Mrs. P.C.
Yonkers Museum of Science and Arts
Yorke, Oswald
Young, E. C.
Young, Elaine
Howard Young Galleries
Young, J. W.
Young, Katherine
Young, Mahonri
Young Stark
Young, Susan F.
Young, Mrs. Thomas F.
Young, William
Younger, Helen Walcott
Youngman, William H.
Youth Today
Yunt Art Galleries
Zabriskie Gallery
Zacharias, Jean
Zaus, Earl A.
Zegarelli, Dr.
Zeltzerman, M.
Zeirler, William S.
Zierner, Thelma
Zinn
Zinsser, J. S.
Zinsser, William H.
Zion, A.
Zipin, M.
Zorach, William
Zorne, Mrs. A. E.
Zsissly
Zucker, Harry T./Zucker, Weiden and Shapiro
R. M. Zucker and Company
Zunser, Shomer
Of particular interest are monthly insurance schedules indicating painting titles and values, and specifying additions and deletions from the previous month. The remaining insurance records have not been microfilmed.
Investment records, filed by names of investment firms, relate to numerous personal and business accounts, including estates of Rehn family members.
Miscellaneous financial records include a file relating to the estate of Frank Rehn's first wife, Peggy W. Rehn, and gallery inventories. Two volumes of receipts record incoming paintings; similar loose receipts are with Series 1. Paid bills are for routine business expenses and some personal expenses; the art-related purchases documented here are framing and painting conservation. Receipts for paintings bought by the gallery are with Series 1.
This series contains five volumes documenting the activities of Rehn Galleries and its associated artists, 1919, 1923-1941, that contain clippings and a small number of exhibition catalogs. An autographed photograph of Walter Griffin is in volume 1. Items on former reel NY59/17 (frames 165-293) were missing from volume 1 when inspected in October 1981. This material was thought to have been returned to the donor after microfilming, and reader-printer copies were inserted as substitutes in 1981. In 2003, these items were found and are now interfiled with the appropriate series (correspondence, printed matter, works of art, and miscellaneous items).
Printed matter relating to Rehn Galleries consists of items about the gallery, as well as publications produced by Rehn Galleries. Included are feature articles, exhibition reviews, announcements and catalogs of artists affiliated with the gallery. Also found here are exhibition catalogs, press releases, and invitations produced by the gallery. General, art-related printed matter consists of articles, auction catalogs, advertisements, and publications of various museums, arts organizations, and schools; also included are feature articles, exhibition reviews, announcements, and catalogs of artists not affiliated with Rehn Galleries. Additional printed items concern miscellaneous subjects that are not art-related.
Artwork consists of undated painted Christmas cards by Yeffee Kimball and Denny Winters, and a painted greeting card by Warren Chappell sent to Reginald Marsh. Pen and ink drawings, 1925-1927 and undated, are by George Luks, Reginald Marsh, Mahonri Young, and unidentified artists. Other artwork includes a sketchbook and watercolor painting by Reginald Marsh.
Among the writings are a short story, "The Power of Money," probably by Frank K. M. Rehn, poems by Coleman Kamile and unknown, and an unsigned essay titled "An American Collector."
Photographs of people include both artists represented by Rehn Galleries and several not affiliated with the gallery. A 1945 group portrait of gallery artists includes Alexander Brook, Charles Burchfield, John Carroll, John Clancy, Edward Hopper, Morris Kantor, Peppino Mangravite, Reginald Marsh, Henry Mattson, George Picken, Henry Varnum Poor, Frank K. M. Rehn, Eugene Speicher, Bradley Walker Tomlin, and Franklin C. Watkins. Another group portrait is of the 27th Carnegie International Jury of Award and American Committee of Selection. Noticeably absent are likenesses of Frank K. M. Rehn and John C. Clancy. Photographs of works of art are by Rehn Galleries' artists and others.
Reginald Marsh's photographs consist of family and personal photographs that were either given to Rehn Galleries or perhaps borrowed for research at the time of his memorial exhibition. Views of Marsh from early childhood through old age consist of studio portraits, informal photographs, and publicity shots of Marsh at work; also included are photographs of family and friends, and a small family album, with few individuals identified. Other photographs are of Marsh's childhood drawings executed between ages 4 and 8, and buildings, including two identified as mother's church and father's church.
Miscellaneous subjects are a dog and exhibitions. Exhibition installation views consist of an unidentified exhibition, circa 1923, probably Rehn Galleries, probably at 5 West 50th Street, and two views of the "Rehn Group," possibly at the Carnegie Institute, 1920.
Scanned with 6.3: Reginald Marsh's Photographs
Scanned with Roosevelt, Gov. Franklin D. and Dr. Charles S. Little
Materials also scanned on Reel 1817, frames 1329-1330
Oversized material housed in Box 24
Scanned with King, Gwyneth
Scanned with Driggs, Elsie
Oversized material housed in Box 24
With Kimball, Yeffe
Oversized material housed in Box 24 and OV 25
Oversized materials scanned with Reel 5872, frames 1381-1427
The Carnegie International Exhibition photograph includes Ernest Lawson, Homer Saint-Gaudens, Colin Gill, Anto Carte, Jonas Lie, Robert Spencer, Mahonri Young, Rockwell Kent, and Guillaume Lerolle.
Oversized material scanned with Reel 5872, frame 981
2 copies; autographed by 30 artists; oversized material scanned with Reel 5872, frame 1198
Correspondence; travel diaries, 1952-1969, with some sketches; writings; exhibition catalogs and announcements; clippings; biographical material; and miscellany.
Correspondence with MacIver; photographs of MacIver's paintings; writings and notes, including texts for Frash's catalog of MacIver; business records with numerous galleries and individuals; exhibition catalogs and announcements; reviews and articles about MacIver; a tape recording containing commentary by Frash on some of MacIver's works; and miscellaneous printed material.
Also, 12 letters, 1969-1979 from Adelyn Breeskin and an unpublished manuscript by Breeskin on MacIver's work, 36 p., annotated by MacIver. The text was to serve as an introduction to a book on MacIver.
The Frederick Hammersley Foundation records measure 26.07 megabytes and date from circa 2009-2019. Included is a comprehensive record of the work of artist Frederick Hammersley that consists of PDF and HTML versions of an Excel spreadsheet with images, derived from the Foundation's database of Hammersley works, a key to the spreadsheet, guidelines for captioning Hammersley's works, and catalog reports on Hammersley works from the Foundation's database. The Foundation created these records in lieu of a catalog raisonne, for which there are no plans.
Research materials assembled by Phyllis Freeman, on the subject of 20th century artists' manifestos. Files include research correspondence, mss. drafts of the monograph (never published), "Manifestos in the Visual Arts: Programs and Movements Since 1900," and eight feet of subject files, covering movements and groups such as Abstract Expressionism, American Abstract Artists, Blaue Reiter, Die Brucke, Constructivism, Dadaism, Fluxus, Futurism, MA (Hungarian avant-garde), Mexican murals, Orphism, the Société Anonyme, De Stijl, and Vorticism.
Two contracts between the U.S. Treasury Department, Section of Painting and Sculpture, and French, in which he agrees to paint murals in the Parcel Post Building in Richmond, Virginia, and in the Post Office in Plymouth, Pennsylvania.
REELS 1443-1445 & 3368-3369: A 26 volume journal, 1959-1985, including lists of art work, illustrated ideas for sculpture, scenarios for films, plans for sailboats, a studio and houses, teaching notes, and brief essays; a souvenir book published by Fridge in 1972 containing a chronology of his life and work with photographs and drawings of his sculpture, boats, houses and films; and printed material.
REEL 1915: Clippings, invitations, exhibition catalogs and announcements; sketches for a set design; an essay "Film in Art... A Philosophy," written for the University of Oklahoma; film awards; correspondence relating to films; and photographs.
Correspondence; inventories; manuscript papers; a taped interview; photographs; and clippings.
The papers of Impressionist painter Frederick Carl Frieseke measure 0.3 and date from circa 1870s-1943, 1982, and 1996. This small collection contains scattered documentation of Frieseke's life through several biographical items, printed material, photographs of Frieseke and his family, and miscellany.
Biographical material consists of a copper plate engraving for Frieseke's calling card; his 1902 Parisian residence registration at 6, rue Victor Considerant; his 1939 French declaration of taxes form; and a customs declaration for a silver medal, a letter, and a check sent to Frieseke in Paris by the Corcoran Gallery of Art, presumably for the Corcoran Silver Medal awarded to Frieseke for Girl at Piano exhibited at the Corcoran's 14th Biennial Exhibition of Contemporary Oil Paintings in 1935. Genealogical notes are a list of probable descendants of Frieseke from 1871 to the 1990s, probably compiled and added to the collection by Miriam A. Kilmer, granddaughter of Frieseke, who included a note explaining the provenance of the material.
Miscellany consists of two war ration books that belonged to Frieseke's wife and daughter.
Printed material includes an 1896 edition of Shakespeare's As You Like It signed by Frieseke, with a note from Miriam A. Kilmer authenticating the signature, and a list of items with which the book was auctioned; and an exhibition catalog for a 1982 retrospective at Maxwell Galleries Ltd.
Photographs are of Frieseke, his wife Sarah Anne and daughter Frances, father Herman, sister Edith, and other family members. They include professional portraits, cabinet cards and candid family photos.
Oversized photo housed in OV 2
Biographical data; correspondence; sketchbooks; notebooks of writings; clippings and magazine articles; photos and slides of Friel and of his works of art; and miscellany. Also included are letters to Friel's mother concerning his death, memorial lectures, and an exhibition.
Nine volumes of notes and sketches; nine sketchbooks with ink drawings and watercolors; personal photos, including 2 of Mick Jagger taken by Annie Leibovitz, ca.1970s; photos of works; correspondence regarding his film "Las Fallas"; and proposals for "Las Fallas" and "UV Illuminated Sculpture."
Also includes notes, interview transcripts with Timothy Leary and others, and proposals for radio programs and a book on hallucinogenics; exhibition catalogs; clippings; and printed matter.
Papers by and about Forrest Bess, including: copies of letters, 1963-1980; exhibition catalogs, 1962-1981; copies of clippings, 1950-1983; and press releases, 1981.
A resume; a photograph of Frisbie; a catalog; and eight scrapbooks containing clippings, catalogues, a few letters and miscellany. The scrapbooks record Frisbie's activities in the art community of Cleveland and Parma, Ohio.
Four sketchbooks including two, 1877 and circa 1885, by Arthur Burdett Frost and two, 1902-1905, by his son Arthur Burdett Frost, Jr.
Letters received; sketchbook; diaries; miniatures; photographs; clippings; and a manuscript draft.
REEL 3504: Letters from John W. Ames, W.C. Brownell of Charles Scribner's Sons, Katherine & Molly Childers, Frederick S. Church, John W. Cunliffe, Dr. Charles L. Dana, Jefferson B. Fletcher, Andrew Green, Gertrude Hall, Grace Hall, Leland Hall, Norman Hapgood, Theo Hawley, Laura Hills, Muriel "Pilla" Howells, Jeannette Meyers Hoyt, Ernest Lawson, Philip Littell, Mrs. J.W. McCarty, Gavin and Marie Mathison, Maxfield "Fred" Parrish, Elsie Pattel, Samuel H. Ranck, Edward Robinson, George Rublee, George Santayana, Edward Fred "Simmy" Simmons, Elizabeth Kendall Underwood, Janet Van Hise, Mary Viele, John F. Weir, Madeline Y. Wynne, and Cecilia Mary Young. Six of the 12 letters from F.S. Church are illustrated with drawings. Letters concern her health, her love affair with Simmons, her art, and financial concerns.
REEL 3825: Biographical material (1967, 1976); diaries (1890-1891, 1903); correspondence, including letters to her husband, Henry B. Fuller (1892-1922) and from John Singer Sargent and H. Siddons Mowbray (1890-1892); a sketchbook; miniatures; photographs (including a portfolio of photographs of miniature paintings); clippings (1910-1924); and a draft of THE MINIATURE AS AN HEIRLOOM by Lucia Fairchild Fuller.
The Florence Forst papers regarding Sue Fuller measures 0.2 linear feet and date from 1958 to 1994. The bulk of the papers consist of letters written by Fuller to Forst and also include scattered biographical material, photographic material, and printed material.
Biographical material includes resumes for Sue Fuller and information detailing one of Forst's works purchased from Fuller including examples of string and dimensions.
Letters are all written by Sue Fuller to longtime friend Florence Forst. Within the letters Fuller discusses her artwork, her trips to Iraq and Iran in 1977, exhibitions at the Guggenheim and Brooklyn Museums in 1978, and Fuller's views regarding aesthetic merit and exhibitions of Henri Matisse, Pablo Picasso, Robert Motherwell, Ad Reinhardt, and others. Underlying themes throughout most of her correspondence deal with feminism and feminist artists Cindy Nemser, feminist organizations like the "Guerrilla Girls," and writings by Linda Nochlin. Other topics discussed include the Bauhaus, Museum of Modern Art, and the College Art Association.
Photographic materials consist of scattered photos of works of art, negatives of works of art, and one slide of Sue Fuller. Printed materials include exhibition announcements and catalogs, clippings, and press releases.
Letters from art associations, galleries, and others, 1957-1970; exhibition catalogs, 1950-1970; newspaper clippings; photographs of Gadbois and his paintings; and miscellaneous printed materials.
Correspondence; sketches and drawings; photographs of Gaertner and his works; an exhibition catalog, 1953; records of talks; a clipping; and miscellany.
The records of The Gallery Wall, Inc., measure 0.3 linear feet and date from 1976 to 1983. The records provide scattered documentation of the gallery's early history through printed material, slides, and two video recordings on Allan Houser and Dan Namingha, the two artists represented by the gallery at the time.
Series includes gallery posters, slides, and two video recordings on Allan Houser and Dan Namingha.
Records of the Gallery at Workbench.
Photographs of Carles' works of art; 14 exhibition catalogs and announcements; a Philadelphia Art Museum Bulletin entitled "Arthur B. Carles: A Critical Biographical Study" (Vol. LXIV, Nos. 302-303, 1970) by Gardiner; list of exhibitions in which Carles participated; and a card file index of all of Carles' works.
Letters, business records, diary, and photographs.
REEL 380-413: Primarily correspondence, mostly Gardner's own, but including family correspondence and Gardner Museum correspondence.
REELS 631-632: Personal papers of Gardner and some records of the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum including dealers' files containing invoices, notes, cancelled checks, and letters; a record book, "Prices Paid for Paintings," 1917; a record book, "Prices Paid for Works of Art"; 118 installation photographs of the museum as arranged by Gardner, 1924; a diary kept in Egypt, 1874, with sketches; a diary kept in Shanghai and India, 1883-1884; "Directions for my funeral," 1912; and "Suggestions for Running a Museum," 1913.
REELS 696-698: Letters from Bernard Berenson to Gardner, 1887-1924. Letters contain references to literary topics, Berenson's impressions of Europe, various paintings and artists, advice to Gardner on the purchase of paintings and information on their sale.
REEL 846: Checklist of Gardner's letters to Bernard and Mary Berenson, 1894-1924; typescripts of personal and official correspondence (originals found on AAA microfilm reels 696-698), 1887-1924.
The papers of graphic artist, muralist, and activist Hugo Gellert measure 6.9 linear feet and date from 1916 to 1986. They document his career as an artist and organizer for the radical left through an oral interview conducted by Sofia Sequenzia, legal papers, financial records, family papers, artifacts, correspondence, writings, organizational records, clippings, exhibition catalogs, various printed materials illustrated by Gellert, pamphlets, periodicals, mass mailings, photographs, and artwork.
Biographical Material includes an audio interview with Gellert; official documents related to memberships, property, and legal matters; financial documents that include bills, receipts, and contracts related to professional activities; papers of Gellert's brothers, Lawrence and Ernest; and artifacts. Correspondence is with other artists, writers, publishers, activists, friends, and family, including Ernest Fiene, Rockwell Kent, Harry Gottlieb, William Gropper, Philip Evergood, Howard Fast, and Jonas Lie. Writings include essays, book projects, notes, and notebooks written by Gellert; and stories and articles by other authors, including typescripts of early twentieth-century Hungarian short stories collected by Gellert.
Organizational Records are related to political and art organizations in which Gellert was an active organizer, officer, and in some cases, a founder. Because of his central role in many of these organizations, records often contain unique documentation of their activities. Records are found for the American Artists Congress, the Art of Today Gallery, the Artists Committee of Action, the Artists Coordination Committee, the Artists Council, Artists for Victory, Inc., the Committee to Defend V.J. Jerome, Hungarian Word, Inc., the National Society of Mural Painters, and other organizations.
Printed materials include a variety of political publications and periodicals with illustrations by Gellert, including New Masses, Art Front, Magyar Szo, and American Dialog; clippings related to his career, exhibition catalogs, political pamphlets, Hungarian literature, and mass mailings received from political organizations. Photographs contain a few personal photographs but are mostly news and publicity photographs, many of which depict prominent Communists and other newsmakers. Artwork includes sketches, drawings, designs, prints, and production elements for Gellert's artwork, as well as prints and drawings by Philip Reisman, Gyula Derkovits, and Anton Refregier.
Items in this series contain biographical information about Hugo Gellert. Family papers related to his brothers, Ernest and Lawrence Gellert, are also found.
An audio recording of an interview with Hugo Gellert, conducted by Sofia Sequenzia, is found on three hour-long audio cassettes, along with a written questionnaire.
Family papers include the drawings and prison testimony of Ernest Gellert, Hugo's brother who died in a military prison in the United States while imprisoned for insubordination as a conscientious objector in 1917. Also found are lyrics, notes, and a photocopied article related to the work of Lawrence Gellert, who traveled throughout the Southeast United States transcribing and recording folk songs and stories.
Other documents related to Hugo Gellert include Communist Party and International Worker's Order (IWO) membership cards and other licenses and ID's. Financial records in this series include professional bills, receipts, and contracts related to Gellert's work as an artist, organizer, and publisher; personal bills and receipts; and various official documents related to property, loans, insurance, and legal issues. The legal issues documented in these records primarily relate to personal debts.
Personal bills and receipts have not been scanned.
Oversized material housed in OV 9
Oversized material digitized with Box 1, Folder 2
This series contains the correspondence of Hugo Gellert. Most of the correspondence is of a professional nature, related to Gellert's activities as an artist, political organizer, and activist. Correspondents include artists, friends, family members, Communist Party and Popular Front leaders, labor union leaders, federal art programs personnel, writers, historians, publishers, Hungarian cultural and political figures, and fellow activists. Significant correspondents in this series include Maurice Becker, William Patterson, Floyd Dell, Philip Evergood, Howard Fast, Mike Gold, Robert Gwathmey, and Rockwell Kent.
Letters from individuals involved in leftist political organizations and activities are common throughout the series. In addition to Gellert's fellow Communists and Socialists, a wide variety of political groups are represented, including those concerned with artists' employment and welfare issues, anti-fascist organizations, organized labor, watchdog groups and defense committees for civil liberties during the McCarthy era, advocates for jailed Mexican artist David Siqueiros, and American civil rights groups. Also found is correspondence with editors of publications for which Gellert supplied illustrations, and letters concerning exhibitions and murals.
Noteworthy items found in correspondence include a lengthy letter written by John Dos Passos enclosed with a circa 1930s letter from Carlo Tresca, a draft of an essay by Carl Sandburg with a 1942 letter, and an original New Year's card by Gellert for 1951. Drafts of outgoing letters from 1946 contain a number of sketches of Australian landscapes by Gellert.
See Appendix for names of selected individuals, organizations, and publications found in Series 2.
Oversized material housed in Box 8
Oversized material digitized with Box 1, Folder 25
This series includes essays, short stories, notes, lists, notebooks, and a play. Most writings are by Hugo Gellert. Articles and stories by other authors, particularly Hungarian are also found.
Gellert's writings include two full-length typescripts, for Baron Munchausen, His Famous 'Mein Kampf', and Comrade Gulliver, An Illustrated Account of Travel into that Strange Country the United States of America. Other prose writings by Gellert include brief essays on a wide array of historical, political, and biographical topics, as well as writings related to exhibitions. Most of these writings are untitled, but examples of titles that are present include "Siqueiros in Jail," "War," The Role of the Communist Artist," and "Charles White, His Portfolio." Prose writings in the Hungarian language are filed separately.
Proposals and applications consist mainly of biographical information about Gellert and one page of an application for Robert Gwathmey. Notes include lists of names, agendas, supplies, recipes for art media, and expenses. Some of the notes are in Hungarian, and scattered notes in handwriting other than Gellert's are also found. Sketches are common throughout the notes. Notebooks contain contacts, appointments, writings, sketches, and other records.
Writings by other authors include articles in English and stories in Hungarian by various authors, filed alphabetically by author. These writings are typically typescripts, and include seven stories by the Hungarian realist writer Zsigmond Móricz. The unsigned typescripts filed at the end of the series may or may not be by Hugo Gellert.
Additional writings are found in the Organizational Records and Artwork series, including an autobiographical essay in a 1950 sketchbook.
Oversized material housed in Box 8
Contains sketches
Box 2, folders 46-47 include "Jo Davidson" by Van Wyck Brooks, "China Report" by John Chen, an article on the sentence of David Alfaro Siqueiros and Filomeno Mata by Victor Rico Galan, "Second Culture" by Gaylord C. LeRoy, "The Ballad of Gheorghe Doja" by Constantin Palade, and "Facts on New York Labor" by Victor Perlo
Authors include Jenö Heltai, Zsigmond Móricz, and István Tömörkény (Box 2, Folders 48-50)
Includes "Chalcography in Hungary," "Political Indifference - Political Death," and untitled essays on the federal art program, artist Robert Minor, and fragments of an essay on the John Reed Club
Oversized material digitized with Box 2, Folders 27 and 39
This series contains documents related to political and art organizations for which Gellert was an active organizer, officer, and in some cases, a founder. Because of his central role in many of these organizations, records often contain unique documentation of their activities.
Typical records found include incoming and outgoing correspondence, membership records, petitions, reports, open letters to public figures in multiple drafts, accounting records, records related to exhibitions, publicity in various forms, meeting agendas and minutes, and Gellert's original notes and writings. Documents are arranged by organization, with records for each organization filed roughly in chronological order. Names of significant correspondents found in this series are listed in a note under the folder heading in which it appears.
Printed material related to organizations for which no original records are found are filed in the Printed Material series.
Box 3, folders 1-2 include letters of Grace Clements, G. Merangel, Stuart Davis, Thomas Parker
Includes a 1936 pamphlet of cartoons defending the Works Progress Administration
Box 3, folders 5-14 include letters of Rockwell Kent, Sally Kent, Hilda Simpson, John Kingsbury, Robert Shinn, Clark Foreman, Emil Zinn, and Eleanor Brown
Box 3, folders 18-23 include letters of A. Alfred DeVito, Zoltan Hecht, Josephine Droege, Frederick Detwiller, Samuel Henning, Theo. H. Kleffel, Nathaniel Pousette-Dart, Carla Zimmerman, Madeleine Gray, Leo Mansoni, Victor Frisch, Archie Abraham, Constance Clarke, Lionel S. Reiss, Else Mevis, R.A. Griffith, Edith Bryan, S.A. Sliflein, Basil Marros, Lewis Rubin, Rose Hecht, Irving Bulback, Maurice Rawson, Adam A. Sanders, J.J. Lankes, Ralph Pearson, Max Weber, Joseph Lemarzi, Mrs. Henry Breckinridge, Lillian Cohen, Harry Hoffman, Marion Walton, Frannie Engle, R. Pringle, and Olivia Agee
Box 3, Folders 24-35 include letters of Harold Friedman, George Biddle, George Picken, Marion Bauer, Audrey McMahon, Michael Loew, Henry Lead, E. Nye, Frances M. Pollak, Stuart Davis, Harry Gottlieb, Ruth St. Denis, Ed B. Rowan, Michael Kiss, William C. Palmer, George Horowitz, Maurice Heaton, Paul Bird, Ethel Katz, Fred Knight, J. Scott Williams, Rockwell King, Alfred Barr, Elmer Rice, Nan Golden, Ellen Woodward, Joy Pride, Elizabeth Litchfield, Josephine Droege, Bianca Todd, A. Conger Goodyear, Philip Stein, Algot Stenbery, Arthur Emptage, Letteris Calapari, Ralph Mayer, Ernest Marbury, Corrington Gill, Daniel Cotton Rich, Joseph A. Danysh, Florence Kerr, Howard Lee Irwin, Adrian Dornbush, Hardinge Scholle, and F. Ballard Williams
Oversized material housed in OV 9
Includes letters of Max Weber, José de Creeft, Thomas Hart Benton, and Carol Janeway
Box 3, folders 37-41 include letters of Rockwell Kent, Chester Price, John Taylor Arms, Marie Kirkwood, Jim Eglern, Thomas C. Parker, and Erwin Barrie
Oversized material housed in Box 8
Box 3, folders 42-44 include letters of Joseph North, Philip Evergood, Sara Gottlieb, and Rockwell Kent
Includes article "Let Us Grasp the Weapon of Culture," and booklet "Culture in a Changing World, a Marxist Approach"
Oversized material housed in Box 8
"Proposals for Activities of John Reed Clubs"
Oversized material digitized with Box 3, Folders 41 and 50
Oversized material digitized with Box 3, 31
This series contains newspaper clippings, exhibition catalogs, magazines, maps, pamphlets, greeting cards, brochures, mailings, flyers, posters, and books. Printed materials with artwork or writings by Hugo Gellert are filed under his name, as are documents promoting his public appearances and other activities. The remainder of the series is filed by type of material. Although the bulk of the printed materials series has been scanned, some clippings, announcements, invitations, maps, pamphlets, printed short stories, and publicity and mailings were not. Not scanned or partially scanned material is noted at the folder title.
Gellert's illustrations are found in a wide variety of publications such as books, magazines, pamphlets, flyers, and publicity for various organizations. These materials are arranged by title, type of document, or organization. Serial publications that Gellert helped to produce are filed under the heading "Gellert periodicals." Photocopied clippings contain additional published Gellert illustrations and cartoons.
Exhibition catalogs, announcements, and invitations are primarily for exhibitions in which Gellert was not a participant. Pamphlets are mostly political tracts. Multiple pamphlets are filed by publisher, and single instances are filed chronologically under a miscellaneous heading. Multiple periodicals are filed by title, with single instances filed chronologically as well.
Publicity and mailings received by Gellert are arranged chronologically and include mass mailings such as form letters, flyers, newsletters, bulletins, announcements, circulars, press releases, reports, and other printed materials related to various labor, political, and art organizations. Some of the issues addressed in this material include the Spanish Civil War, advocacy for victims of McCarthyism, May Day demonstrations, civil rights, Soviet-American friendship, Cuba, organized labor, and education. Also found here are scattered programs for cultural events.
Printed materials related to organizations in which Gellert was a principal organizer are found in the Organizational Records series. Exhibition catalogs for the Art of Today Gallery are also found with Organizational Records.
Oversized material housed in Box 8.
Proofs of illustrations for books by Gellert
Oversized material housed in Box 8
Hungarian-language Newspaper
Oversized material housed in Box 8
Anti-Horthy League Pamphlet
(magazine cover)
(theater handbill)
Oversized material housed in OV 9
(magazine covers)
Oversized material housed in Box 8
Oversized material digitized with Box 4, Folders 9, 15-16, and 33-35, and Box 5, Folder 26
Oversized material digitized with Box 4, Folder 26
This series consists of personal photographs, news and publicity photographs, and photographs of works of art. Most of the personal photographs are snapshots, and most are unidentified. There are also two sets of group portraits with Gellert pictured, but other individuals are unidentified.
The bulk of the photographs are publicity and news photographs, including photos from news agencies and file photos of public figures. Public figures include well-known American communists such as Earl Browder, Tom Mooney, Eugene Debs, Upton Sinclair, and Paul Robeson, as well as famous industrialists and mainstream politicians such as J.P. Morgan, Dwight Eisenhower, Herbert Hoover, and Robert Moses. Some of the photographs appear reproduced in the various publications Gellert helped to produce. Several news photographs are marked "D.W." or "Daily Worker." A few of those pictured were also subjects of Gellert's murals and illustrations. Others remain unidentified. Subjects with multiple photographs are listed in the folder headings, and single instances are filed in miscellaneous files.
Photographs of works of art include murals by Gellert at Seward Park, a mural by Pablo O'Higgins in Mexico, and Philip Guston's mural for the 1939 World's Fair. Set pieces with illustrations by Gellert are shown during a performance, which may have taken place at the 1945 San Francisco conference of the United Nations.
Included are photographs of Carl Schwartz, Julia Schwartz, Irving Fierson, Nancy Fierson, Dolores Gold, Max Bachner, Jenny Bachner, and other unidentified people
Pictured in box 6, folders 39-41 are Bernhard Stern, Walter Lowenfels, George Morris, Robert Moses, Al Smith, Eugene Debs, Julius Rosenberg, William Z. Foster, Irving Kaufman, Karl Marx, Maxim Gorky, B.W. Atwood, Jan Bratiano, Herbert Hoover, Walter S. Gifford, Eleanor Roosevelt, Edward R. Murrow, Dwight Eisenhower, Fred Seaton, Maud Barger-Wallach, Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney, Otto Kahn, J.P. Morgan, Pierre duPont, George Baker, Jr., J.D. Rockefeller, Jr., and Eugene Meyer
Artwork includes silkscreen prints, lithographs, woodcuts, sketches, drawings, doodles, designs, sketchbooks, layouts for printed materials, and other print production elements. Artwork is by Hugo Gellert and others, including Philip Reisman, Gyula Derkovits, Anton Refregier.
Artwork that is part of identifiable, titled projects is filed first, including sketches for Gellert's 1934 book Karl Marx's Capital in Lithographs, and a set of silkscreen prints that he issued as a portfolio entitled Century of the Common Man in 1943. General files for sketches, sketchbooks, layouts, and prints filed after them. Sketches, drawings, and designs include a wide variety of material, from loose sketches and doodles to finished drawings, as well as text design, technical drawings, and floor plans. Notes and writings are common among the sketches and sketchbooks, and the sketchbook dated 1950 also contains a handwritten, autobiographical essay.
Layouts and prints production elements include sketches, prints, typography, brownprints, photostats, and prints in various states.
Oversized material housed in OV 10
Two volumes
Oversized material housed in OV 10
The first print is by Charles White, the last print is by Alexander Stavenitz
Oversized material digitized with Box 7, Folders 7, 10-11, 16, and 19
The Eugenie Gershoy papers date from 1914 to 1983, measure 7.2 linear feet, and reflect Gershoy's career as a sculptor and teacher. The collection contains biographical material, correspondence, business records, notes, writings, artwork of Gershoy and others, printed material including exhibition catalogs, and photographs with subjects including Gershoy, her friends and colleagues, her studio, and her artwork.
Correspondence forms the bulk of the collection and includes correspondence between Gershoy and her siblings and their families regarding her activities, as well as with colleagues, many of whom were associated with the Woodstock Artist Association, and many of whom were museum colleagues.
Biographical material includes a résumé, membership cards, award certificates, and a biographical sketch. See also sol 8 for oversized biographical material.
Correspondence is primarily between Gershoy and family members and colleagues. Correspondence with her sister and brothers and their families discusses Gershoy's activities, including her relationships with Harry Gottlieb and Juliana Force. Correspondence with colleagues includes letters from Elizabeth Ames of Yaddo, Mildred Baker, Arnold and Lucile Blanch, Virginia Dehn, Aline Fruhauf, Agnes Hart, Frederic Knight, Josef Presser, and Virgil Thomson. There are Christmas cards from Irving Marantz, George Picken, Anton Refregier, Moses Soyer, and Raphael Soyer. Correspondence found in box 9 is primarily from museum colleagues including Alfred Barr, Adelyn Breeskin, Juliana Force, and A. Hyatt Mayor. There is also a recommendation from Anton Refregier.
See Appendix for a list of notable correspondents from Series 2.
Reel 4966
Reel 4967
Reel 4968
Reel 4969
Reel 4970
Reel 4971
Reel 293
Reel 4970
Business records include Gershoy's will, receipts for the delivery of artwork to museums, and loan and consignment receipts.
Notes include lists of names, as well as autographs of Georgia O'Keeffe and Woodstock artists Lucile Blanch, Agnes Hart, Doris Lee, Nicholas Marsicano, Robert Plate, Amy G. Small, Miron Sokole, and Phoebe Towbin.
Writings consist of short essays by Gershoy, including "Fantasy and Humor in Sculpture," instructions on the use of plaster, and a proposed project for a program in ceramics. Writings by others include poems by Bonnie Grainger, a handwritten poem titled "Dirge Without Music" by Edna St. Vincent Millay, and an essay, "On the De-Humanization of Education," by Francis V. O'Connor.
Art work consists of sketchbooks, drawings, and prints by Gershoy, and art work by others including Alfred Banner, Rosalind Barnett, Lucile Blanch, Petra Cabot, Betty Hamilton, and Florence Weinstein.
Printed material includes clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs for Gershoy and others, press releases, brochures, programs, and reproductions of art work.
Photographs are of Gershoy, her Art Students League class with A. Stirling Calder, her friends, including Harry Gottlieb, Reuben Nakian, Joseph Pollet, Concetta Scaravaglione, Jean Varda, and her friends at Yaddo. There are also photographs of a studio interior, street views of Woodstock, New York, and art work by Gershoy and others.
The papers of collage artist Ilse Getz measure 3.4 linear feet and date from 1928 through 1999, with the bulk of the papers dating from circa 1947-circa 1990. Her personal life is reflected through biographical material including a genealogy of the Bechhold family; marriage and death certificates; and writings that include journals, artist statement, poems and notes. The collection contains letters from friends, artists, collectors, and museum and art gallery representatives; exhibition files; and printed material relating to Getz's exhibitions. Also found are photographs, slides and transparencies of artwork.
Biographical material includes curriculum vitae, chronology of Ilse Getz's life, list of collectors, certificate of naturalization and passport, obituaries and death records for Ilse Getz and her husband Gibson Danes, memorial service program and certificate of devise, and a genealogy of the Bechhold family. This series also houses a scrapbook of clippings and exhibition announcements that document Getz's early artistic career. Researchers should note that some of the information in the scrapbook can also be found elsewhere in the collection, primarily in sereies 3 and 5 and additional material can be and additional material is found in series 4.
This series contains personal and professional letters written to Ilse Getz from friends, artists, museum and gallery representatives, and collectors. Personal letters from artists and gallery representatives are from Kenneth Armitage, Varujan Boghosian, Ludwig Charell, Virginia and Piero Dorazio, Theodoros Stamos, Mark Tobey, and Manoucher Yektai, among others. Professional letters from artists and museum and gallery representatives are included from Carol Anthony, Roy Davis, Louise Tolliver Deutschman, S. Lane Faison, Sigrid Freundorfer, Curt Heigl, Paul Jenkins, Jirko Jirí Chmelar, Hans Namuth, Pierre Restany, and Judith Rothschild among others. Also included are season's greeting cards from Sonia Delauney and Larry Aldrich. This series also houses letters pertaining to the 1978 retrospective exhibition Ilse Getz - Bilder, Konstruktionen, Collagen, which took place at the Kunsthalle Nürnberg in Germany. There are a few draft response letters written by Ilse Getz. Where dates are unknown, letters have been filed at the end of a folder.
Exhibition files may contain any or all of the following: sales and loan records; letters; photographs; publicity material; and price lists. Included in the printed material are announcements, catalogs, and clippings. Financial and publicity material relating to exhibitions are located at the beginning of the series. Individual files on exhibitions are listed chronologically. Some files may contain multiple exhibition information. Additional material can be found in series 2.
Writings contain an artist statement, notes, journals, poems by Getz and Barbara Guest, and a transcribed interview from 1977 of Ilse Getz conducted by Carl Heigl. Also found is an illustrated travel journal created in 1947 in which Getz recorded her experiences while visiting Spain. Included in the material is a journal from Getz's youth in which friends and acquaintances wrote notes and drawings to her. Writings by others include a statement by Paul Jenkins titled, "Thoughts around Ilse." This series is arranged according to material type and chronologically.
Printed material contains announcements, invitations, solo and group exhibition catalogs, and clippings pertaining to Getz's artistic career. Also included are posters for exhibitions in which Getz participated with a monograph of the Artist's Christmas Cards which features a reproduction of Getz's work.
Included within the material are an acquisitions report from Dartmouth College Museums & Galleries and an annual report from the Wadsworth Atheneum, which list the gift of Getz's work to the institutions.
Also found are group exhibition catalogs including Collage International: From Picasso to the Present, Contemporary Arts Museum, 1958; Cinquante Ans de "Collages" Musée d'Art et d'Industrie, 1964; and Grandes Femmes Petits Formats, Micro-Salon 1974, inscribed by Iris Clert-Christofle. Solo exhibition catalogs include Ilse Getz, Collage Paintings, Tibor Nagy Gallery, 1962; Ilse Getz, Paintings, Collages, Constructions Neuberger Museum, and Kunsthalle Nürnberg, 1978; and Ilse Getz, Boxes, Collages, & Constructions Alex Rosenberg Gallery and Goethe House, 1978, among others. Magazine and newspaper clippings include reviews of Getz's work by Larry Campbell, Henry Lehmann. Virginia Mann, Vivien Raynor, and Sidney Tillim.
Oversized material housed in box 4, folder 5
Oversized material can be found in box 4, folders 6-8
Oversized material housed in OV 5
This series contains photographs, slides and transparencies of Ilse Getz's artwork. Images of artwork primarily consist of Polariods. Also included are slides and negatives of Ilse Getz in her Newtown, Connecticut studio as well as a photograph of her New York City studio and apartment. Also included is a photograph of Getz's friend and fellow artist, Theodoros Stamos.
The Ruth Gikow papers measure 2 linear feet and date from 1933-1982. The papers document Gikow's life and career as a figurative painter and illustrator through biographical material, correspondence, writings, personal business files, printed material and photographic material. Biographical material contains resumes, Gikows passports, a transcript from a Jewish Home Show radio interview and an audio interview with Gikow done by Karl E. Fortess. Correspondence is between Gikow and her family, critics and galleries, and from colleagues including Karl Fortess and Lee Nordness, and one letter each from Werner Drewes, Jo Hopper, and Raphael Soyer. Writings consists of essays by Gikow on her life and career and on art and artists more broadly. Other writings include an annotated appointment calander, lists of her artwork and miscellaneous notes.
Personal business records document Gikow's career through sale records and price lists, as well as receipts and correspondence related to the production of a catalog of her work. Also present is an exhibition file documenting an exhibition of Gikow's paintings memorializing the Kent State University shootings. Printed material is comprised of exhibition announcements and catalogs, news and magazine clippings, advertisements and brochures that Gikow illustrated, along with a book Gikow illustrated titled History of Jews in America. Of note is a published book on Gikow's work entitled Gikow by Matthew Josephson. Photographic material contains photographs of Gikow, her husband Jack Levine, her studio, other artists, including Chaim Gross, Jacob Lawrence, and Raphael Soyer, and her works of art.
Biographical material contains resumes, seven of Gikow's passports, her college yearbook from Cooper Union, a transcript from a Jewish Home Show radio interview and an audio recorded interview with Gikow done by Karl E. Fortess. Accompanying the audio tape interview is a letter from Fortress regarding the sending of the tape.
Correspondence is a mix of personal and professional letters with critics and galleries, universities, colleagues and family including Gikow's daughter Susanna Fisher Levine. Also found in this series is an address book. Correspondence is arranged chronologically.
The writings series contains essays by Gikow on her life as an artist and as an artist's wife and reflections on art and artists more broadly. Other writings include an annotated appointment calander, lists of her artwork and miscellaneous notes.
Personal business document's Gikow's career through sale records and price lists, as well as receipts and correspondence related to the production of a catalog of her work. Also present is an exhibition file documenting an exhibition of Gikow's paintings memorializing the Kent State University shootings.
Printed material is comprised of news and magazine clippings, advertisements and brochures that Gikow illustrated, along with a book Gikow illustrated titled History of Jews in America; exhibition announcements and catalogs. Of note is a published book on Gikow's work entitled Gikow and associated promotional printed material.
Photographic material contains photographs of Gikow, her husband Jack Levine, her studio, other artists, including Chaim Gross, Jacob Lawrence, and Raphael Soyer, along with works of art.
Letters to the stockholders discuss the financial condition of Beard Art Galleries. Letters from European and American galleries, such as the Vose Gallery and Keppels Print Shop, concern exhibitions. Other materials include clippings, exhibition catalogs and announcements, biographical information on Harington Beard, and photographs of the gallery.
One letter, September 19, 1968, Aly Moore, wife of artist Bruce Moore, written from Pietra Sarta, Italy, where some of Moore's bronzes were cast, and one Christmas card from Bruce Moore with a reproduction of a crayon sketch; thirteen slides of Moore in his studio; and two bookmarks designed for Glass by Robert W. Galvin, and a bookplate, designed for her friend Lillie O. Street, all ca. 1945.
The papers of writer, art historian, curator and museum director Constance Glenn measure 17.1 linear feet and 6.88 GB and date from the 1960s to 2014. The papers consist of material related to Glenn's writings and book projects, curated exhibitions, professional associations, research, involvement with California State University, Long Beach, and printed and digital material. Exhibition openings, panel discussions, and interviews are present in the format of sound and video recordings. Also included are correspondence, photographs, and a small series related to Glenn's interest and experience in art collecting, including price lists, inventories, and provenance records.
Biographical Files include address and contact lists, audiovisual and digital material, and a file regarding the education of Constance Glenn's son, Chris.
Correspondence includes letters sent and received by Constance Glenn of a predominantly professional nature. Her correspondents include artists, colleagues in the museum world, and a few professional organizations.
Writings include drafts, research, and some correspondence related to essays, articles, and book chapters authored by Constance Glenn. Found here are files regarding her writing and editing for Architectural Digest, Angeles Magazine, The Dictionary of Art, Encyclopedia Americana, along with her contributions to chapters of books on American pop art. Also included in this series are notes and drafts of essays, some of which are titled. Of note are sound recordings of interviews with individuals for Architectural Digest, including artists Richard Diebenkorn and Nathan Oliveira.
File also contains correspondence, notes, and other papers.
Book Projects consists of correspondence, research files, book agreements, manuscripts, and photographs mostly documenting Constance Glenn's involvement with the Harry N. Abrams Inc. artists' sketchbook series. Co-authored by Jack Glenn, Constance's husband, the Glenns wrote the text and edited the published sketchbooks of Jim Dine, Roy Lichtenstein, Lucas Samaras, Wayne Thiebaud, and Robert Motherwell. Files also exist on other artists who were part of this series, but ultimately did not publish their sketchbooks at this time. These artists include Eric Fischl, Richard Diebenkorn, and Ellsworth Kelly.
Also included is a subgroup of proposed books consisting of correspondence, research material, writings, and some book agreements.
Artists Files include sound and video recordings, interview transcripts, and some papers related to artists who were of interest to Constance Glenn.
Researchers should note that additional information on some of the artists in this series may be found in Series 4: Book Projects and Series 6: Exhibition Files.
Exhibition files document Constance Glenn's curation of exhibitions both at the University Art Museum where she served as director and curator and elsewhere as a consulting curator. Included are planning documents, correspondence, inventories, loan forms, research files, condition reports, photographs, printed material, and some video and sound recordings.
Researchers should note that some information on the artists in this series, especially that which date after Glenn's exhibitions, may be found in Series 5: Artist Files.
File also includes a letter from photographer Arthur Tress.
Professional Files document Constance Glenn's involvement with associations, other museums, and galleries, as well as her participation in lectures, panel discussions, and juried competitions. Included is correspondence, transcripts, some writings and research material, audiovisual material, and printed matter.
California State University, Long Beach files document Constance Glenn's tenure as an educator and museum director at CSULB. Glenn helped found the university's museum, the University Art Museum, in 1973 as she was completing her M.A. in Fine Art. She initiated CSULB's Graduate Certificate in Museum Studies, and taught courses on art and museum studies. The papers mostly include administrative records such as correspondence, performance review files, and resumes. Also included are research files and manuscript drafts that were compiled for an M.A. thesis regarding art collector Marcia Weisman. Glenn served as a supervisor for this project.
Art Inventory and Sale Records consists of notes, research, printed material, and gallery records regarding the sale, transfer, and provenance of artwork.
Printed Material consists of articles and clippings written by, regarding, or of general interest to Constance Glenn; periodicals; exhibition and event announcements from artists including Andy Warhol, Roy Lichtenstein, and Jim Dine; ephemera from the Jack Glenn Gallery; and some topical research files.
Photographs include images of artwork, gallery and museum installations, and scenes from museum events. The bulk of the files are composed of photographs of Jim Dine's artwork. Also included are photographs of Glenn's personal library and some portraits.
26 letters from Ernest Fiene, 1956-1964, and six letters from Boris Grigoriev, 1923-1926. Fiene writes in detail about his investments and personal finances, family and personal matters, and also about his painting and the market for his work. Grigore̓v sends greetings from Europe, mentions the work he is doing, current exhibitions, and asks to borrow money.
The papers of New York artist Nancy Goldring measure 5.1 linear feet and 0.213 GB and date from circa 1950-2020. Her career and personal life are documented through biographical material; personal and professional correspondence; writings; project and exhibition files; printed and digital material; scrapbooks; artwork; and photographic material. Notable correspondents include Lawrence Alloway, Robert Lax, and Leo Steinberg. There is a 0.4 linear foot unprocessed addition to this collection donated in 2020 that includes printed material, artwork, correspondence (emails, handmade cards), poetry, photographs of friends and family, and misc. Materials date from circa 1967-2020.
Biographical material dates from 1957 to 2014 and includes address books, agendas, an autograph book from summer camp, school documents, interviews, and a resume.
Correspondence dates from 1962-2015 and is personal and professional in nature. Found here are letters, emails, postcards, holiday cards, invitations, and exhibition announcements from friends, some of whom Goldring met while traveling in Italy. Notable correspondents include Leo Steinberg whom Goldring studied with at New York University, and Robert Lax, whose letters include many poems. Also included is one letter from Lawrence Alloway. Letters and postcards sent to the Goldring family while Goldring was in Europe provide frequent and detailed descriptions of her travels. Professional correspondence is with galleries, museums, colleges, and others regarding exhibitions, articles, teaching positions, and other opportunities. The first folder includes an index created by Goldring identifying each correspondent.
Writings date from circa 1955-2014 and consist of published articles and exhibition reviews, two travel diaries, a lecture, an essay written while a student at New York University, and several writings from adolescence, which include illustrated stories and literary papers. The last folder holds a writing by Jay Tolson about Goldring's work.
Project and exhibition files date from 1970-2015 and include correspondence, photographic material, proposals, schedules, exhibition plans, and a variety of printed material. Printed material relating to exhibitions without any corresponding primary documents is in Series 5: Printed Material. The folder titled "Montclair State University" relates to the many functions Goldring serves there, including teaching and exhibiting.
Printed material dates from circa 1950 to 2015 and includes clippings, ephemera, exhibition material, lecture announcements, periodicals, postcards, yearbooks, and posters. Ephemera is primarily from Goldring's adolescence and includes programs from high school and commencements. Exhibition material includes announcements, brochures, press, and exhibition catalogs relating to exhibitions Goldring participated in, curated, or juried. One exhibition catalog is in digital format. Periodicals are primarily magazines and journals featuring Goldring's work or reviews of her work. Goldring's postcard collection has been assembled during the course of her world travel.
Two scrapbooks from Goldring's adolescence date from 1955 and circa 1956. One is titled "Sixth Grade Memories," and contains drawings and signatures from classmates. The other is untitled and incorporates a variety of printed material and ephemera. Many items are not affixed to the page, but placed in between the pages.
Artwork dates from circa 2006 and includes preliminary sketches and photographic collages.
Photographic material is primarily photographs and copy prints, with a few slides of the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001 and Goldring's close friend Robert Lax. Goldring has organized the photographs into "packets" A-G and has provided a detailed inventory of each packet. Found here are many images of Golding throughout all stages of her life, with friends, traveling, working, and at exhibition openings. "Packet F" includes copy prints of family photographs from the early twentieth century.
Oversized material housed in OV 8
Biographical material, correspondence, writings, project files, works of art, photographs, and printed material documenting Goodelman's work as a sculptor, his participation in the Jewish community, and his interest in socialism.
Personal and professional correspondence is with artists, art associations, museums, galleries and relief organizations, documenting Goodelman's education in Rome, New York and at L'Ecole des Beaux-Arts, Paris; his teaching career in New York, particularly with the Jefferson School of Social Sciences; and his participation in art, political and Jewish organizations, such as American Artists' Congress and the Union of American Hebrew Congregations.
Writings by Goodelman, undated and 1934, include notes, notebooks, and typescripts. There is also a typescript of Elizabeth McCausland's speech "Art and the Atom," 1947. Project files contain information regarding Goodelman's sculpting of memorial gravestones, Passover art, and the Week of Jewish Culture. Works of art by Goodelman, ca. 1920-1930's, include illustrations for the children's journals "Young Israel," "Kinder Journal" and Joseph Gaer's books "the Burning Bush" and "the Unconquered," sketches, portraiture, and figure drawings.
Photographs are of Goodelman, working and teaching sculpture; his childhood in Russia; his family, friends, and students; memorial gravestones, and works of art.
Printed material includes exhibition announcements and catalogs, entry cards, invitations, clippings, political and art organizations information, adult and art education flyers, clippings and a photocopy of Goodelman's privately microfilmed scrapbook containing letters and printed material.
Also included are files on Goodelman's wife, Sarah, on Jewish children's schools, 1949-1950.
UNMICROFILMED: Two scrapbooks compiled by Sarah Goodelman, containing newspaper clippings, exhibition catalogs and photographs regarding the career of Aaron Goodelman, as well as business cards, addresses, scattered receipts, negatives, and miscellany.
The George Goodwin interviews relating to Frank Lloyd Wright measure 0.2 linear feet and date to 1992. Interviews were conducted by Goodwin for the Frank Lloyd Wright Archives at Taliesin West, Scottsdale, Arizona, with architects, students, and clients who knew Wright and others who offer opinions on his work. Interviewees include: architects Graham Gund, Philip Cortelyou Johnson, Kevin Roche, printmaker and mural painter Richard Haas, a Taliesin apprentice with Wright in the 1950s, who has portrayed Wright and the Chicago School in his murals; and Loren Pope, a Wright client from the mid-1930s. Included are brief summaries of the Pope and Roche interviews.
The George Goodwin interviews relating to Frank Lloyd Wright measure 0.2 linear feet and date to 1992. Interviews conducted by Goodwin for the Frank Lloyd Wright Archives at Taliesin West, Scottsdale, Arizona, with architects, students, and clients who knew Wright and others who offer opinions on his work. Interviewees include: architects Graham Gund (1 cassette), Philip Cortelyou Johnson (1 cassette), Kevin Roche (1 cassette), printmaker and mural painter Richard Haas (2 cassettes), a Taliesin apprentice with Wright in the 1950s, who has portrayed Wright and the Chicago School in his murals; and Loren Pope (1 cassette), a Wright client from the mid-1930s. Included are brief summaries of the Pope and Roche interviews.
Includes brief written summary.
The papers of art historian, writer, and museum administrator Lloyd Goodrich measure 35.7 linear feet and date from 1884 to 1987 with the bulk of the material dating from 1927 to 1987. Materials include biographical material, extensive correspondence, writings and research files, organization and committee files, exhibition files, printed material, a scrapbook, and photographic material. The collection is particularly rich in research files on Winslow Homer, Thomas Eakins, Albert Pinkham Ryder, and Reginald Marsh, as well as correspondence with additional notable artists and art figures.
Scattered biographical materials include biographical sketches, an interview transcript, personal business records, documents relating to Goodrich's service on art juries, and awards and honors.
Correspondence is with friends, family, artists, museums, collectors, galleries, and arts organizations. Correspondents include The Arts Magazine, Whitney Museum of Art, Olin Dows, Philip Evergood, Yasuo Kuniyoshi, Reginald Marsh, Kenneth Hayes Miller, Elias Newman, Daniel Catton Rich, and Raphael Soyer among many others. Research related correspondence arranged here concerns work on a catalogue raisonné of Winslow Homer. This material was originally arranged in the correspondence files by Goodrich prior to the later donation that included additional research files on Homer found in Series 3. There are also condolence letters from notable figures in American art.
Writings and research files include major writings, such as books and articles, and book reviews, essays, exhibition text, catalog entries, and lectures. In addition to the writings, Goodrich's research files for the writings are arranged here and include research, notes, correspondence, photographs, illustrations, printed materials, and bibliographies. There are also book agreements. There are extensive files for Goodrich's books on Winslow Homer (see also correspondence in Series 2) and Reginald Marsh; articles, catalog entries, and other writings on Winslow Homer, Albert Pinkham Ryder, Kuniyoshi, Reginald Marsh, and American art in general; lectures and talks; research files on other artists, and notes and notebooks.
Organization and committee files document Goodrich's service on boards, commissions, committees, organizations, and associations, such as the American Federation of Arts, the Association of Art Museum Directors, the Carnegie Study in American Art, the National Council on the Arts and Government, American Art Research Council, Artists Equity Association, Artist Tenants Association, the selection committee of the American National Exhibition (1959), and others are found within organization and committee files. Agendas, correspondence, meeting minutes, and printed material are found within the files.
Exhibition files are found only for several Winslow Homer shows. Printed materials include clippings, publicity materials, and printed copies of his writings. Photographic material includes scattered photographs of Goodrich and others, and extensive negatives of works of art, likely by Homer. Also found are x-rays of paintings by Ralph Blakelock.
Found are biographical sketches, a copy of Goodrich's birth certificate, a transcript of an interview with Goodrich, awards and honors, documents relating to Goodrich's service as an art juror, and scattered personal business records, including a letter to Juliana Force regarding salary negotiations.
Correspondence is with museums, galleries, friends, colleagues, arts organizations, and his wife Edith Havens Goodrich. Correspondents include W. G. Brownwell, Bryson Burroughs, Olin Dows, Philip Evergood, John Fletcher, George Fuller, Rosalie Warner James, Augusta Kelley, Yasuo Kuniyoshi, Reginald and Betty Marsh, Kenneth Hayes Miller, Cyril Nast, Elias Newman, Daniel Catton Rich, Raphael Soyer, Mrs. Silvia S. Warner, and Faith Weston. Also found is a file of letters concerning RIchard Yarde. There is also a group of correspondence concerning Goodrich's work on a catalogue raisonné of Winslow Homer.
Most of the correspondence between Goodrich, Kuniyoshi, and Marsh was sent between 1925 and 1926 when the Marshes and Kuniyoshi and his first wife, Katherine Schmidt, were traveling in Europe over the course of the year. Marsh writes of the art and architecture of Europe and reports on the doings of friends he runs across, such as Kuniyoshi, Schmidt, and Guy Pène du Bois. Many of the travel letters are illustrated.
Also found in this series are condolence letters to David Goodrich upon his father's death in 1987 from John I.H. Baur, Flora Biddle, Dean Fausett, Lawrence Fleischman, Karl and Ilse Schrag, Roy Neuberger, Helen Farr Sloan, Raphael Soyer, Ira Spanierman, Jane Turano, Betty Burroughs Woodhouse, Virginia Zabriskie, and others.
Researchers should note that additional correspondence is found among the writings and research files in Series 3 and the organizational and committee files in Series 4.
Writings and research files document Goodrich's research and writing projects and include files relating to his published books on Winslow Homer and Reginald Marsh, as well as articles, lectures, talks, drafts of lectures and talks, book reviews, encyclopedia entries, exhibition catalog essays, and other publications. Many of the writing files include scattered research notes. Also found are research and reference files arranged by topic or name, notebooks, lists, annotated printed materials, and files titled "ideas".
Found are materials relating to Goodrich's published works Winslow Homer and Reginald Marsh, including bibliographies, correspondence, drafts, illustrations, photographs, printed material, and research material.
Oversized material housed in OV 38
This subseries includes articles, book reviews, introductions to books by others, encyclopedia entries, exhibition catalog texts, and other works intended for publication by Goodrich.
Found are the drafts, transcripts, and correspondence relating to the planning of Goodrich's lectures and speeches on art, artists, and organizations.
Files include research material on artists and those in the art world. Material may include correspondence, printed material, and notes.
Found are notebooks, lists, annotated printed materials, and files titled "ideas".
Organization and committee files include agendas, correspondence, printed material, meeting minutes, and printed materials regarding Goodrich's service on the boards of arts associations, and organizations and committees, such as the American Federation of Arts, the Association of Art Museum Directors, Carnegie Study in American Art, the National Committee on the Arts and Government, the American Art Research Council, Artists Equity Association, Artist Tenants Association, and others. Many of the documents comment on advocating for government support of the arts and for artists' rights. Other topics covered include affordable housing for artists, forgery and fraud in art, censorship, education about American art at home and abroad, artists' relationships with dealers, and copyright and tariff issues.
Lloyd Goodrich was a director, trustee, and honorary vice president of the American Federation of Arts. Types of materials include agendas, booklets and brochures, by-laws, clippings, correspondence, exhibition lists and schedules, minutes, notes (including for exhibitions), photographs, press releases, reports, and statements.
Over a period of fifteen years Goodrich served the Association of Art Museum Directors as an advisory director, and on various committees including the Artists-Museums Committee, and the Government and Art Committee. Materials include clippings, correspondence, minutes, reports, and Internal Revenue Service information on art sales.
Goodrich served on the board of the Carnegie Study, an organization that documented American art and artists. Materials include lists of artworks with accompanying essays, correspondence, information on the Carnegie Corporation, minutes, photographs, and schedules.
Goodrich served as vice chairman of the National Council on the Arts and Government. Materials include agendas, booklets, by-laws and constitution, clippings, correspondence, proposed and draft legislation, hearings and related testimony, financial records, minutes, notes, press releases, statements, and speeches.
Goodrich served on numerous additional associations and committees, including the Artists Equity Association, Artist Tenants Association, New York Attorney General's Advisory Committee on Forgery, Fraud, and as a founding member of the American Art Research Council, among many others. He also advised the Edith Halpert and Sara Roby Foundation Boards. Files contain agendas, booklets and brochures, clippings, correspondence, exhibition lists, congressional legislation, minutes, notes, photographs, and reports.
There are also materials relating to the American National Exhibition (1959). Along with Henry Hope, Theodore Roszak and Franklin C. Watkins, Goodrich selected the works of sixty-seven American artists for the American National Exhibition (1959) held in Moscow. The Chairman of the House Un-American Activities Committee, Rep. Francis E. Walter claimed that thirty-four of the included artists were affiliated with Communist activities and demanded the removal of those artists. Some of the included artists testified and ultimately, President Eisenhower intervened and allowed for the works to be shown in Moscow.
Oversized material housed in Box 37, Folder 3-4
There are files for only a few of the many exhibitions curated by Goodrich, all of them on Winslow Homer outside of the Whitney. Materials are scattered but may include correspondence, agreements and financial records, loan records, gallery plans, photographs, and printed materials.
Includes some duplicates recorded from originals in 1986
Printed materials include clippings, flyers, and exhibition catalogs for speeches or exhibitions organized by Goodrich. Also found are copies of Goodrich's published writings.
There is a dismantled scrapbook of printed material relating to Goodrich's career, spanning the years 1952 to 1959. Materials include clippings, exhibition catalogs and announcements, museum bulletins, and publicity material concerning speeches, exhibitions, and writings by Goodrich.
Scattered photographs are of Lloyd Goodrich, of Goodrich with others, and of travel. Negatives and lantern slides of works of art by Winslow Homer and sixteen x-rays of works of art by Ralph Blakelock are also found. The X-rays are of paintings in teh collection of the Corcoran Gallery, Hirschl & Adler, Whitney Museum, the Worcester Museum, and several private collections.
Researchers should note that additional photographs of works of art may be found within Series 3.
Oversized material housed in Box 37
Notebook, ca. 1830-1845, kept by Edwin Weyburn Goodwin listing portraits painted, the date, and payment received for each work; a few letters from Richard La Barre Goodwin which give an account of his service in the Civil War; photographs of Richard La Barre Goodwin's paintings; and correspondence of his daughter, Claribel Goodwin, relative to contemporary exhibitions of his work.
Letters, mostly from French artists, regarding their paintings, many of which are to be shown at an exhibit at the Palais de Champs Elysées organized by the staff of Goupil & Cie.
The papers of painter and educator Jacqueline Gourevitch measure 5.6 linear feet and date from 1946-2019 and document her education at Black Mountain College, Black Mountain, N.C., and the Art Students League; her teaching career; and exhibitions in Chicago and New York through biographical material, teaching files, personal and professional correspondence, gallery and exhibition files, and printed material.
Materials in this collection document Gourevitch's career as an artist and educator. Her early interest in pursuing a career as a painter is highlighted through biographical materials that include correspondence, alumni lists, and notes from Black Mountain College and the High School of Music and Arts related to class reunions; a 1954 Fulbright application; and teacher bios from the Art Students League and Chicago Arts Institute.
Although her work as an artist and as an educator often overlapped, Gourevitch did not begin teaching until the 1970s. The years she spent painting are documented through exhibition announcements and clippings; gallery and exhibition files that include correspondence with curators and gallery owners, loan agreements, price lists, checklists, photographs and notes; various projects she worked on, including the Black Mountain College Project and numerous exhibitions related to Black Mountain College; and through correspondence with colleagues, other artists, including Ellen Lanyon, and friends. Gourevitch's teaching files document her career as an instructor and visiting artist through correspondence with students, faculty and staff at various institutions; lectures, lecture notes, and lecture announcements; course descriptions; class lists; syllabi; campus maps; and letters of recommendation. Evidence of her lasting impact on her students can be found throughout the collection through correspondence, clippings, and exhibition announcements.
Biographical material document Gourevitch's education and her interest in painting. Materials include a pamphlet from Camp Strawderman; teacher bios from her attendance at the Art Students League in 1952 and the Art Institute of Chicago in 1956, including Charles Alston and Paul Wieghart; a Fulbright scholarship application to study in France, which she "reluctantly turned down"; and alumni lists, classmate bios, and correspondence from Black Mountain College and the High School of Music and Art reunions.
Correspondence documents Gourevitch's career as an artist and educator, and her personal connections to friends and other artists she met while studying at Black Mountain College and in Chicago, including Marion Miller and Ellen Lanyon. She often received photographs, clippings, and exhibition announcements, and corresponded frequently with current and former students.
Professional Files document projects that Gourevitch was involved in outside of teaching and exhibiting her work. Although art related, the material document her passion for art education and her strong ties with the art world and to Black Mountain College. She participated in numerous projects related to Black Mountain College, including the Black Mountain College Project dedicated to documenting the history and influence of the college's unique educational experiment; costume work for Susan Foster's "Corpus Delecti" choreography; contributions to art related publications and films; and her work with the Ora Lerman Charitable Trust, Women in the Arts, and the Connecticut Commission on the Arts. Materials include transcripts, correspondence, pamphlets, lists, clippings, notes, and photocopies from the North Carolina State Archives.
Gallery and Exhibition Files document Gourevitch's participation in group and solo exhibitions at galleries and museums across the United States, primarily in Chicago and New York, and span six decades. They also document museums and galleries that acquired her work either by donation or purchase. Notable institutions include DFN Gallery, Eleanor Rigelhaupt Gallery, Paesaggio Gallery, Tibor de Nagy Gallery, Whitney Museum of American Art, Wadsworth Atheneum, Yale University Art Gallery, Art Institute of Chicago, and Black Mountain College Museum and Arts Center. Materials in this series include correspondence, checklists, price lists, exhibition announcements, floor plans, photographs, rights and reproduction requests, catalog mock-ups, and photocopied guest books.
Teaching files document Gourevitch's career as an educator, including art instructor and visiting artist positions at numerous institutions across the United States including Wellesley College, Cooper Union, University of Huston, Vassar College, University of New Mexico (Albuquerque); University of California (Berkeley), and others. She taught beginning and advanced painting and drawing, and has given numerous talks and lectures on a variety of topics including specific artists and styles. Materials include notes, lesson plans, handouts, syllabi, lecture notes and announcements, grant paperwork, correspondence, campus maps, committee notes, and pamphlets.
Printed Material document Gourevitch's painting career and the work of her former students. Materials include clippings reviewing her work; exhibition announcements, notes, and letters from her former students; and various exhibition announcements and clippings related to her shows.
A manuscript by Dorothy Grafly concerning her father, Charles Grafly.
Correspondence; photographs; and scrapbooks.
REEL 3294: Two scrapbooks containing photographs of works of art, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and clippings about artists affiliated with the gallery.
REEL 3298: Letters to Graham from Robert Dash, Marilyn Fischbach, and others; and photographs, including pictures of Graham and some of the artists affiliated with the Graham Gallery; and photographs of works of art.
Corrected and annotated mss. by Graham "Art History" with related notes (ca. 350 p. total); an autobiographical sketch, entitled "Autoportrait" (3 p. typescript); and an 8 p. summary by Angus Deming of an interview she conducted with Graham, Sept. 1960 in Paris.
32 photographs of prints created by Blanche Mary Aronson for the Works Progress Administration.
The Dwinell Grant papers measure 0.8 linear feet and date from 1930 to 1988. The papers document Grant's career as a painter and filmmaker through awards and certificates, interviews, resumes, and other biographical material; correspondence with friends, colleagues, and art institutions; manuscripts and other writings; business records with Olympia Gallery and Martin Diamond Fine Arts and Graham Gallery; and brochures, exhibition announcements, exhibition catalogs, and other printed material.
Biographical material includes awards and certificates, resumes, a timeline of Grant's life, some autobiographical notes by Grant and two videotapes PROFILE OF DWINELL GRANT from "Profiles in Excellence" conducted by Gary Perdue, and an interview with Grant for ART BEAT. Correspondence is composed of letters to and from Grant with friends, colleagues, and art institutions. Writings include essays Grant wrote for academic courses and typescript writings expressing Grant's thoughts on art and religion. Business records include Grant's dealings with Martin Diamond Fine Arts and Graham Gallery and the Olympia Gallery during the late 1970s and 1980s. Materials include such things as invoices, appraisals, and storage of artwork. Printed material includes press releases, clippings, programs for plays produced at Wittenberg College, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and brochures and fliers concerning Grant's medical and other filmmaking projects.
Biographical material includes awards and certificates, resumes, a timeline of Grant's life, some autobiographical notes by Grant and two videotapes PROFILE OF DWINELL GRANT from "Profiles in Excellence" conducted by Gary Perdue, and an interview with Grant for ART BEAT.
An interview with Dwinell Grant. May possibly be a partial transcript of the video interview for "Art Beat."
Correspondence is composed of letters to and from Grant with friends, colleagues, and art institutions.
Writings include essays Grant wrote for academic courses and typescript writings expressing Grant's thoughts on art and religion.
Business records include Grant's dealings with Martin Diamond Fine Arts and Graham Gallery and the Olympia Gallery during the late 1970s and 1980s. Materials include such things as invoices, appraisals, and storage of artwork.
Printed material includes press releases, clippings, programs for plays produced at Wittenberg College, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and brochures and fliers concerning Grant's medical and other filmmaking projects.
Selected letters, sketches, writings, clippings and printed material collected by Simon Gratz, primarily from the "Painters, sculptors, and engravers" section (ca. 400 items) of the Cultural life, arts and sciences autograph series. Other sections filmed include Benjamin West correspondence; Charles Thomson correspondence; Joshua Humphreys letters; and one or more letters from the following categories: American miscellaneous, European painters and sculptors, Chaplains colonial wars and revolution, Roman Catholic prelates, British Authors, British literary misc., European explorers and antiquaries, American poets, Univ. presidents, American scientists, American authors, American prose, American literary misc., U.S. Senators, and others.
The Painters, sculptors, and engravers section contains ca. 400 items, primarily letters, of prominent eighteenth, nineteenth, and early twentieth century American artists, such as Albert Bierstadt, William Merritt Chase, Thomas Cole, John Singleton Copley, Asher B. Durand, Charles Willson Peale, John Singer Sargent, Gilbert Stuart, Thomas Sully, John Trumbull, and others. Many of the letters are addressed to Albert Rosenthal. Also included are sketches, writings, clippings, and printed material pertaining to the artists. The Benjamin West papers, 1877-1819, (reel P23, fr. 1-85) include letters to West, letters from and about West, and cards, a certificate, and engraving of him.
The Charles Thomson papers (reels P21, fr. 800-813 and P22, fr. 1-7) include material relating to craftsmen in New York and Philadelphia, 1784-1787; correspondence with Joseph Delaplaine, 1816-1817, concerning Delaplaine's having a portrait of Thomson painted by Bass Otis; a letter to Thomson from G.P. Norris, Jr., Jan. 26, 1819, referring to Trumbull's painting of the signing of the Declaration of Independence; and bills from cabinetmaker Alexander Anderson. The Humphreys' letters are from Charles Willson Peale, Mar. 4, 1795, and William Rush, Apr. 30, 1795.
Three page essay, The Origami Center of America, by Alice Gray (photocopy).
Minutes of meetings, 1922-1959; lists of expenses, 1914-1958; a list of exhibitions; form letters; a resume of Dorothy Ochtman; clippings, 1912-1957; exhibition announcements and catalogs, 1912-1958; 7 exhibition entry announcements, 1954-1958; course announcements, 1929-1958; a brochure THE GREENWICH ART SOCIETY: A CHRONICLE OF THE YEARS 1977-1987; and a medal designed by Tiffany from the National Arts Club to the Greenwich Art Society, 1936. Material on the 1913 Armory Show includes an invitation, a photograph of the installation, and a pin.
Barnett Newman's letter to Herman Warner Williams and seven letters to Green from Mark Di Suvero, Gerald Nordland, and Clyfford Still discuss the progress and exhibition of their work.
Reel 3567: Clyfford Still's 4 letters and a postcard concern plans to visit Green and his views on the state of the art world. Gerald Nordland's letter contains excerpts of his correspondence with Still and his wife regarding a 1967 exhibit of Still's work at the San Francisco Museum of Art. Barnett Newman's letter to Williams, director of the Corcoran Gallery of Art, concerns a proposed exhibit of Newman's work at the Corcoran.
Reel 4391: Mark Di Suvero's letter discusses his difficulties in producing work according to a timetable and thanks Green for releasing him from an exhibition deadline.
The papers of Joseph J. Greenberg measure 0.5 linear feet and date from 1939-1989. The papers document Greenberg's career through biographical materials, including resumes and award certificates, professional correspondence, and printed material such as news clipping and exhibition catalogs. Also found is a scrapbook which contains clippings and catalogs, press releases, correspondence regarding his sculptures, a poem Greenberg wrote and notes. Photographic material contains photographs of Greenberg, his colleagues, and his artwork.
Biographical material includes resumes and award certificates for club memberships and fellowships. Correspondence is professional in nature and are from institutions such the Philadelphia Art Alliance, National Institute of Arts and Letters, The Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, The American Jewish Tercentenary, and others. Printed materials consist of clippings, exhibition catalogs and brochures featuring Greenberg's sculptures. Also found is a scrapbook which contains clippings and catalogs, press releases, correspondence regarding his sculptures, a poem Greenberg wrote and notes. Photographic material contains photographs of Greenberg, his colleagues and his artwork. Of note is a group photograph of artists on the main staircase of the Philadelphia Museum of Art.
Two interviews of Sam Green conducted by Jane Tippett and an unknown male, possibly Hugo Vickers.
Green speaks of his childhood in Mass., his family's early New England and New York antecedents, and his education at the Rhode Island School of Design. He reminisces about his early employment at the Green Gallery, which led to his introduction to Burton and Emily Tremaine and his first encounter with Andy Warhol. He further discusses being appointed director of the Institute of Contemporary Art in Philadelphia in 1965, where he staged Warhol's first retrospective, and his later appointment as a cultural advisor to New York City by Mayor John V. Lindsay. Green discusses organizing "Sculpture and Environment" exhibition, sponsored by the city, specifically the display of Barnet Newman's, "Broken Obelisk," (1963). Green discusses the installation of a large Eastern Island Moai Head, which he displayed in hopes of raising awareness to the planned conversion of Easter Island into a jet-refueling station. He discusses his real estate investments, specifically his home in Cartagena, Columbia, and an Upper East Side apartment. The remainder of the interview details Green's notable social relations with celebrity figures including Peter Allen and Liza Minnelli, Barbara Baekeland, Brigid Berlin, Cecil Beaton, Candy Darling, Cyrinda Foxe, Greta Garbo, and the Lennon-Ono family. He elaborates specifically on his relationship with Garbo, and his first encounter with Garbo at Cecile de Rothschild's home in the south of France. He also summarizes his work establishing the Landmarks Foundations, designed to preserve "sacred sites" on a global scale.
An exhibition invitation and nine catalogs primarily from the Institute of Contemporary Art, University of Pennsylania, containing text by or references to Green. Included among them are an Andy Warhol exhibit, 1965, and a Tony Smith exhibit in 1966 in conjunction with the Wadsworth Atheneum.
Correspondence, legal agreements, financial statements, and photographs of works related to several of Gregory's sculpture commissions, including the Folger Shakespeare Library, Washington, D.C., the Federal Reserve, Washington, D.C., the 1939 New York World's Fair, the Pennsylvania Society of Sons of the Revolution, and Fairmont Park, Pennsylvania.
Eight pencil drawings by Grever; biographical and legal papers; printed material from the Kit Kat Club, 1907-1923, and the Salmagundi Club, 1929; membership books from the Poster Artists Association of America, 1912, 1915, and 1923; photograph albums and photographs; letters of condolence upon Grever's death; and correspondence of Grever's widow and daughter, Barbara Grever, mainly relating to their efforts in documenting Grever's work after his death.
Griffin, writing from Paris, advises and encourages Hepworth in his work as a portrait painter. He suggests contacting Mr. Lamb about a commission, and mentions Seldon C. Fox and Louis Orr, former students of Griffin's.
The papers of New York City sculptor and teacher Chaim Gross measure 21.1 linear feet and date from 1920-2004. The collection provides comprehensive documentation of Gross's career through biographical material, personal and professional correspondence with family, artists, writers, galleries, museums, educational institutions, and religious and philanthropic organizations, writings, personal business records, extensive printed and published material including motion picture film and video recordings of four documentaries, one hundred and fifteen sketchbooks spanning the bulk of Gross's career, and photographs of Gross, his family, many friends and colleagues from the art world, his studio, personal art collection, and works of art.
Biographical material includes records collated to document awards and honors given to Gross documenting the recognition he received for his lifelong achievements in the last two decades of his career, including from the American Academy of Arts and Letters and the National Academy of Design. The series also includes Gross's birth certificate printed in 1920, some biographical notes and resumes prior to the 1970s, documentation of Gross's business and personal contacts through addresses and business cards, and a motion picture film of a documentary about Gross, Art and the Model, made in 1976 by Thea Bay and edited by Bob Worth.
Personal and professional correspondence constitutes the largest series in the collection and documents all aspects of Gross's prolific career including: personal letters from friends and family such as daughter Mimi Gross and Red Grooms; professional correspondence with galleries, museums, and other art institutions including the Jewish Museum, Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Smithsonian American Art Museum, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, and the Whitney Museum of American Art; correspondence documenting commissions, loans, and sales of Gross's artwork through galleries including Forum Gallery; and correspondence with synagogues including International Synagogue, Temple Sharaay Tefila, and Temple Sinai, Pittsburgh, and multiple other Jewish organizations such as Hadassah and State of Israel Bonds. Correspondence also documents publications by and about Gross including letters from Abe Lerner, the Jewish Publication Society of America, Chaim Potok, and Harry N. Abrams, Inc.; Gross's work as a teacher including at the Educational Alliance and the New School for Social Research; and the significance of Gross's personal collection of African art through correspondence with Warren M. Robbins, the Smithsonian Museum of African Art, and others. Gross's work for the Works Progress Administration Federal Art Project and Treasury Relief Project, as well as for the 1939 World's Fair, is also documented in this series and includes contracts and correspondence with Ed Rowan.
Correspondence includes many letters from artist friends and colleagues including Isabel Bishop, Peter Blume, Eliot Elisofon, Eugenie Gershoy, Milton Hebald, Lewis Jacobs, Karl Knaths, Arnold Newman, Elias Newman, Saul Rosen, Moses Soyer, Raphael Soyer, Nicholas Sperakis, William and Marguerite Zorach, and many others. Writers and scholars who corresponded with Gross include Samuel French Morse, Jack C. Rich, Shea Tenenbaum, Roberta Tarbell, and others.
Writings primarily consist of a partial draft of Gross's book The Technique of Wood Sculpture but also include a copy of his first published article in 1938 in the American Federation of Arts Magazine of Art, and a few short writings by Gross on other artists. Writings by others include a memoir of Gross's boyhood written by his brother, poet Naftoli Gross.
Gross's personal business records are scattered, as many transactional records are included with his correspondence. They do include lists of Gross's artwork and his personal art collection, two agreements for rights to use his work, appraisals of twelve of his works of art, and receipts of consignments, sales, loans, and gifts of artwork.
Printed material is a comprehensive and substantial record of Gross's exhibitions, and his prolific engagement in the arts and his community throughout his long career. This series includes announcements and catalogs for many of his exhibitions, brochures and programs for art organizations for which he exhibited, taught, donated to, or was otherwise represented in, notably the Educational Alliance, the New School for Social Research, the Sculptors Guild, Inc., and numerous other private and public museums, galleries, and institutions. Also found is circa one linear foot of clippings about Gross that span his career from newspapers, magazines, and journals, including some Hebrew and Yiddish publications. The series also houses video recordings of the documentaries Tree Trunk to Head and A Sculptor Speaks, and an NBC broadcast of an interview with Gross entitled The Two Chaims, as the motion picture film, A Sculptor Speaks.
Sketchbooks provide a unique visual record of Gross's development and the shifting focus of his subject matter from 1933 to right before his death in 1991. They record his early subjects of acrobatic models, family bonds, and landscapes, and the emergence of darker "fantasy" drawings in the wake of the Holocaust and World War II which brought the news of the murder of his brother and sister and her family by the Nazis. The sketchbooks document Gross's travels abroad during the 1960s, and his incorporation of Jewish iconography and Old Testament themes in the 1960s and 1970s. They also illustrate how the constant theme of the celebration of the human form persisted in his work to the end of his life.
Photographs of people and events, although only measuring 0.7 linear feet, provide a rich visual record of Gross's life and his professional and personal relationships from the time he arrived in the United States in 1920 to the late 1980s. The earliest photographs picture Gross with his brothers and with new friends at the Educational Alliance including Moses and Raphael Soyer, Peter Blume, and Elias Newman. There are many photographs of Gross working in his studios, and at the Bedi-Makky Art Foundry in Brooklyn, photographs taken at parties, exhibition openings, receptions, and other events, and photographs of Gross's art collection and exhibition installations. Photographs picture artists such as Hyman Brown, Jose de Creeft, Joseph Hirsch, Moses Soyer, and Raphael Soyer; and gallery owners and collectors including Bella Fishko, Joseph Hirshhorn, Sidney Janis, and Warren M. Robbins. The series also houses photographs of works of art, primarily sculpture, executed by Gross between 1922 and 1987.
An unprocessed addition of three sketchbooks was donated in 2020.
This series includes Gross's birth certificate for 1902, dated 1920; personal stationery and business cards for Gross; addresses for friends and colleagues; biographical accounts and resumes for Gross for the 1930s-1960s; and photocopies of library catalog cards for publications by or about Gross. Records related to awards and honors consist of correspondence, invitations, commemorative programs, and printed material documenting awards and honors that Gross received primarily from the 1970s-1991.
This series includes a silent motion picture film Art and the and Model, shot by Thea Bay in Provincetown and edited by Bob Worth (1976).
Gross's personal and professional correspondence constitutes a rich and substantive record of all aspects of his career and is with family members; friends and colleagues including many artists, architects, writers, and scholars; galleries, museums and other art institutions; synagogues and multiple Jewish philanthropic organizations; publishers; and educational institutions. The correspondence is primarily incoming with scattered outgoing letters from Gross and occasionally Renee Gross. There is often overlap between professional and personal correspondence as relationships with colleagues span many years and often developed a personal tone. Renee Gross's work with philanthropic organizations is also documented to some extent.
Correspondence with family includes five letters from Renee to Chaim Gross, a folder of letters from daughter Mimi Gross and Red Grooms, including eight illustrated letters written while traveling in Italy, Macedonia, Greece, and Yugoslavia in the 1960s, and letters from extended family members.
The series contains a significant amount of correspondence with artists including: twelve letters and cards from Eliot Elisofon containing accounts of his travels in Africa in 1972-1973; letters from Richard and Laurie Graham, recording their impressions of Italy and discussing Graham's success; and four letters from Milton and Cecille Hebald written from Italy, discussing Milton Hebald's work and Gross's work being cast at the Nicci Foundry. Letters and postcards from filmmaker Lewis Jacobs relate to the printing of Tree Trunk to Head and The Sculptor Speaks. Letters from photographer Arnold Newman include two from Florida in the early 1940s where Newman was establishing a portrait studio. Letters from Elias Newman and Moses Soyer include descriptions of their experiences as young students at the Educational Alliance Art School.
In addition to correspondence from artists in the named files, general correspondence files for each letter also house many social replies, postcards, and scattered business and personal letters from artists including: Philip Evergood, Eugenie Gershoy, Harry Glassgold, Louis Held, Edward and Jo Hopper, Mervin Jules, Maurice Kallis, Jacob Kainen's wife Ruth Kainen, Yasuo Kuniyoshi, Robert Laurent, Michael Lawrence, Legh Myers, George Nobe, Elliot Offner, Abraham Rattner and Esther Gentle, Girolamo Piccoli, Charles Salerno, Satyajit Shergil, Mia Solow, May Stevens, Paul Suttman, Hans Va de Bovenkamp, Egon Weiner, Warren Wheelock, Jean Woodham, Hale Woodruff, Herbert and Laura Ziegler, and Marguerite and William Zorach.
Correspondence with architects, writers, and scholars include letters from Chaim Potok in his capacity as editor with the Jewish Publication Society of America, referencing the publication of The Book of Isaiah; letters from Jack C. Rich related to his published writings on sculpture; letters from Yiddish writer and poet Shea Tenenbaum; and a folder of letters from art historian Roberta K. Tarbell, who wrote the essay for Gross's 1977 retrospective at the Jewish Museum.
Correspondence with publishers documents the publication of books about Gross or featuring his work. Letters from Beechurst Press, Inc., include the contract for Fantasy Drawings in 1956; related correspondence with Indiana University includes letters from Alfred Kinsey and the Institute for Sex Research referencing Gross's drawings included in the book and used in research at the institute. Correspondence with Harry N. Abrams, Inc., documents the publication of Chaim Gross by Frank Getlein (1974) and Chaim Gross: Watercolors and Drawings by Alfred Werner (1979).
Correspondence with noted book designer Abe Lerner, relates to design work Lerner did for publications containing artwork by Gross, primarily for the Jewish Publication Society of America, including The Book of Isaiah and a book on Gross's Ten Commandments. Correspondence with printer Marcel Salinas documents Salinas's assistance in the production of Gross's suite of lithographs for The Jewish Holidays in 1969.
Gross's work for the Works Progress Administration is documented through correspondence, contracts, payment vouchers, and related documentation. The Federal Art Project correspondence includes a copy of Gross's Government Services Administration transcript of employment up to September 1940 and letters relating to Gross's winning entry for the competition to execute artwork for the Post Office in Irwin, Pennsylvania. The Treasury Relief Art Project files document Gross's commissions for the Post Office Department building and the Apex Building in Washington, D. C. The files include scattered personal letters from Ed Rowan and Forbes Watson. The New York World's Fair (1939) folder contains a contract for Gross's work for the France Overseas and Finnish Buildings, and related correspondence and financial records. Also documented are Gross's participation in juries for national competitions and his work as a consultant for the selection of sculptors to execute work on federal buildings.
Correspondence with museums and galleries provides documentation of commissions and sales of Gross's artwork, many solo and group exhibitions in which he was represented, and multiple loans and gifts to various museums. These include Gross's 1977 retrospective at the Jewish Museum, exhibitions at the Smithsonian's American Art Museum, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, and the Whitney Museum of American Art. Correspondence with Bella Fishko and Forum Gallery documents Forum Gallery's representation of Gross's artwork from 1961 through the early 1980s and indicates the lucrative nature of Gross's exhibitions during that period. Letters include account statements, appraisals, records of sales and gifts of Gross's work, and copies of correspondence relating to loans of work for exhibitions at other galleries and museums.
Correspondence with Warren Robbins documents Robbins's efforts to engage the involvement of artists in establishing the Museum of African Art. Purchases of Gross's work in the early 1940s by museums as prominent as the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Museum of Modern Art, are also documented here, as are Gross's gifts and loans to both museums, his involvement with the Museum of Modern Art's education committee, and his loans from his personal collection to the National Gallery of Art's first exhibition of African art in 1970.
References to many commissions and projects appear throughout the series, including Gross's six bronze panels entitled Six Days of Creation for Temple Sharray Tefila in New York City, and his Ten Commandments for the sanctuary of the International Synagogue at John F. Kennedy Airport, New York. Correspondence with Harold and Kitty Ruttenberg relates to commissions for Temple Sinai in Pittsburgh and others and is notable also in that it includes relatively frequent replies from Renee and Chaim Gross which provide details about events in their lives and Gross's career. Correspondence with the United Nations documents Gross's commissions for watercolors and serigraph prints reproduced in three first day covers and stamps issued for the United Nations.
Correspondence also documents Gross's work as an educator with the Educational Alliance, and with the New School for Social Research where Gross acted in various capacities, including as a teacher, donor, and jury member, and worked to support the school's plan to establish an expanded art center program with residential facilities to serve as a resource for the whole of New York City.
Gross's involvement in many societies and associations is also documented, including his donations to, and service on the board of trustees of the Fine Arts Work Center in Provincetown and the Provincetown Art Association; his election to associate and academician of the National Academy of Design; and his membership in the National Institute of Arts and Letters. Correspondence with the Sculptor's Guild Inc., and with Fimi Samour, documents the guild's activities during the 1950s-early 1980s, including exhibitions, memberships, and financial status. Sculptors Guild correspondence includes letters from artist Renata Schwebel.
Documents Bernstein's patronage of Gross's work, including his $50,000 gift to the University of Rhode Island which was used to purchase Gross's Performers in 1972.
Includes a signed copy of Blume's remarks on the presentation of the American Academy of Arts and Letters award of merit medal to Gross in 1963.
Various departments including Board of Education and Office of the Mayor.
Includes two cards from Ralph and Fanny Ellison
Includes 3 letters from sculptor and foundry owner in Rome, Herzl Emanuel; 2 letters from sculptor Jacob Epstein, one regarding a sculpture Epstein purchased from Gross; and a letter and a postcard from Philip Evergood.
Documents sales of tapestries with reproductions of Gross's artwork.
Includes a January 1945 receipt from Juliana Force for a bronze figure purchased for $500; and three greeting cards from Karl and Lillian Fortess with reproductions of original artwork.
Includes eight letters and two envelopes illustrated by Mimi Grooms, one is oversized and housed in Box 22, Folder 1.
Includes three letters, one illustrated, from Eugenie Gershoy in which she expresses her admiration for Gross and references bronzes Gross bought from her; three letters from African art historian
J. Werner Gillon; and two postcards from Allan Ginsberg, who delivered a tribute to Gross in 1994 at the
American Academy of Arts and Letters.
Detailed letters from Massilon Museum director Albert Hise provide information about the museum's development of their collection of Gross's artwork.
Includes a photograph of Theresa Bernstein and William Meyerowitz in their studio and a photograph of Woldemar Neufeld
1997 item is an empty envelope
Letters relate to an exchange of artwork between Knaths and Gross.
Includes two letters with a sketch from architect Lester J. Millman who built bases for Gross's sculpture.
Includes a three-page letter from poet Samuel French Morse.
Includes four cards and notes from May Tabak Rosenberg with original drawings by Patia Rosenberg.
Includes two cards and a letter from James Johnson Sweeney.
Writings and notes by Gross include a review and a copy of the American Federation of Arts publication Magazine of Art for December 1938 featuring Gross's first published article. Writings and notes about other artists are drafts of short statements about artists including Federico Castellon, Robert Matta, Bernard Simon, Moses Soyer, and Harvey Weiss, possibly written as recommendations or for announcements or catalogs. Also found are drafts of chapters for Gross's how-to book The Technique of Wood Sculpture, with draft labels and photos of artwork to be featured in the book.
Writings by others about Gross include remarks made at dedications of his sculpture, and on other occasions when he received awards and include copies of essays by John I. H. Baur and Carol Drisko. Writings by Gross's brother, poet Naftoli Gross, include a typescript of a childhood memoir recalling Chaim's boyhood and coming to America, and poems about Gross.
The series includes lists of Gross's drawing and sculpture, and of his private art collection with insurance values.
Lists of loans and loan agreements include many compiled by Forum Gallery, with dates of execution and dimensions of artwork. Some lists include prices and insurance values.
Agreements include one with Maurice A. Melford granting Melford the rights to reproduce Secret and Acrobats; and an agreement granting permission to use photographs in a film.
Receipts are for consignments, sales, loans, and gifts of artwork, as well as shipping receipts, and receipts for supplies. Appraisals are for twelve works of art by Gross for various recipients.
Miscellaneous records include a 1942 statement on taxes which relates to Gross's monetary prize for his contribution to the Artists for Victory exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
Printed material provides a comprehensive survey of the numerous exhibitions, teaching opportunities, professional events, and philanthropic endeavors in which Gross participated throughout his career.
Announcements and catalogs are for solo and group exhibitions, lectures and symposia, award dinners, openings and receptions, dedications of sculpture, and other special events. Brochures and programs are for books and films by or about Gross, tours of his studio, and events at which Gross was honored or at which his artwork was presented or dedicated. Additional printed material relating to awards and honors received by Gross can be found in Series 1: Biographical Material and Series 2: Correspondence. Copies of catalogs for Sculptors Guild exhibitions from the 1930s to 2001 can also be found here.
Art school brochures are for schools in which Gross taught, including the Cumington School, the Brooklyn Museum Art School, and the New Art School, established by Gross, Raphael and Moses Soyer, and Alexander Dobkin at 567 Sixth Avenue in New York City in 1939. They also include brochures for art programs in which Gross taught or otherwise participated, and auction catalogs for auctions for which Gross contributed artwork.
Brochures and programs are for dinners and award ceremonies in which Gross was honored or at which his artwork was presented or dedicated. Also found are brochures for Gross's books and films, and brochures for tours of his studio. Copies of catalogs for Sculptors Guild exhibitions from the 1930s to 2001 can also be found here.
The series also includes a motion picture film and a video recording of the documentary A Sculptor Speaks, and video recordings of Tree Trunk to Head and an NBC broadcast of The Two Chaims, featuring an interview with Chaim Gross.
News clippings and articles provide a comprehensive survey of the publicity Gross received over the course of his career from the early 1930s to the 1990s and include multiple articles on Gross in English, Hebrew, and Yiddish newspapers, magazines, and journals.
The series includes a copy of the book The Sculpture Relief of the Ten Commandments by Gross and Rabbi Israel Mowshowitz published by International Synagogue in 1973; and Improvisations published in 1953 and 1955 for the Artists Equity Masquerade Ball with reproductions of artwork by Gross. Reproductions of artwork include two posters for a Sculptors Guild Carnival with artwork by Gross, and a holiday card designed by Chaim Gross and signed by Chaim and Renee Gross.
Oversized material housed in Box 22, Folder 2
Motion picture film reel housed in FC 24
Oversized material housed in Box 22 Folder 2
Oversized material housed in Box 22, Folder 2
Includes photocopies of two photos of In Memoriam of Capt. Colin Kelly including one of Gross standing next to the plaster cast. Notes attached to the documentation indicate that the plaster was never cast, and was missing, presumed destroyed.
Oversized material housed in Box 22, Folder 2
Printed material about others includes announcements and catalogs for Moses and Raphael Soyer and others, and printed material on African arts.
This series comprises 115 sketchbooks produced by Gross between 1933 and 1991. The earliest sketchbooks are primarily figure and head studies interspersed with landscape sketches. Themes include the mother and child bond and models in acrobatic poses. There are sketches of Renee Gross with baby Mimi, Raphael Soyer, and Concetta Scaravaglione.
Beginning in 1944 Gross's sketchbooks take on a much darker tone with sketches characterized by bird-like and serpentine creatures of a mythological nature combined with human forms, images of war, Hebrew iconography, and recurring motifs of subjects pierced with long shards and nails, many dripping tears. A selection of Gross's sketches from this period were published in the book Chaim Gross: Fantasy Drawings by Beechurst Press, Inc. in 1956.
These types of images continue to dominate the sketchbooks through the mid-1950s, and begin to diminish thereafter. Sketchbooks from the 1960s are characterized by figure and head studies, Jewish iconography, and vibrant and colorful sketches of travels abroad. The sketchbooks from 1965-1966 includes sketches of William and Marguerite Zorach.
"Fantasy drawings" reappear in the late 1970s-1980s, and the bird and teardrop motifs are revisited, although the drawings are less violent in nature. The 1987-1988 sketchbook includes sketches indicative of self-examination in the face of grief and mortality, such as those expressing Gross's grief on the death of life-long friend Raphael Soyer, and self-portrait sketches.
Sketches are in pencil, ink and wash, and watercolor. Many are annotated with notes on art and addresses of friends and contacts. Sketchbooks include a handful of sketches by others including one by Eliot Elisofon and several by Raphael Soyer and Mimi Gross.
Also found at the end of the series is a 1977 signed and numbered print (2 of 100) by Gross, entitled Happy Mother.
includes sketches by Mimi Gross
Includes sketches by Moses Soyer
Oversized sketchbook housed in Box 22, Folder 3; includes 2 sketches by Raphael Soyer and 1979 news clipping
Includes sketches of Raphael Soyer
Includes sketch by Raphael Soyer and of Soyer by Gross
includes sketch by Raphael Soyer
Includes sketch of Raphael Soyer day before his death
Oversized print housed in OV 23
Photographs of people and places include portraits of Gross; photographs of Gross at home with his art collection, with family, in his studio, at the foundry, and at exhibition openings, parties, and gatherings in his home and elsewhere; and photographs of Gross with friends, artists, art collectors, and others. Portraits are by Linda Kleban-Kleineman, Marvin P. Lazarus, Arnold Newman, Carl van Vechten, Max Waldman, and others. Photos of Gross in his studio include at least two taken by Eliot Elisofon that were used in Gross's book The Technique of Wood Sculpture.
Photographs of the Gross family include Gross with his two brothers shortly after reuniting in the United States circa 1921; family portraits of Gross, Renee, and their children; a photograph of Mimi Gross with Red Grooms and their daughter Saskia taken by Arnold Newman; and two photographs of Arnold Newman with Mimi Gross and Red Grooms.
Photographs of Chaim Gross in the studio span entire his career from the 1930s to the 1980s and include images of Gross's Grand Street studio in Soho, purchased in 1963, and of his home and studio at 526 LaGuardia Place. There are photographs of Gross working on sculpture for the 1939 World's Fair, working on Six Days of Creation for Temple Shaaray Tefila in New York City, circa 1966, and with his sculpture at the Bedi-Makky Art Foundry in Greenpoint, Brooklyn. Photographs from the 1960s include some take by Dena (Dinah Rubenstein). One 1944 photograph includes an image of photographer Marion Palfi posing for another artist.
Photos of Gross with others include fellow Educational Alliance Art School students Peter Blume, Elias Grossman, Leon Jackson, Elias Newman, and Anna Ostrovski. Photos of parties include photos from Chaim and Renee Gross's fiftieth wedding anniversary picturing attendees including Sally Avery, Estelle Kerkauf, Jack Levine, Arnold Newman, Warren M. Robbins, and Raphael Soyer. Attendees pictured at other parties at Gross's home include Emil Arnold, Maurice Becker, Leonard Bocour, Frederico Castellon, Nicolai Cikovsky, Joseph Floch, Ruth Gikow, Marsha Hersey, Leon Kroll, Jack Levine, Irving Marantz, Morris Nechin, Raphael Soyer, Sylvia Small, Stuyvesant Van Veen, Hudson D. Walker, and Sol Wilson.
Photographs of art-related events include Gross participating in symposia, juries, art demonstrations, auctions, awards dinners, and other events and include John Hovaness; Adolph Gottlieb and Nelson Rockefeller at an Educational Alliance Art School celebration; Vincent Glinsky at a Sculptors Guild member benefit; and Golda Meir receiving the sculpture Mother Israel at a Bonds for Israel dinner in 1974.
Gross is also pictured with art collectors and gallery owners such as Bella and Sol Fishko, Sidney Janis, Gus Newman, Warren Robbins, and Helena Rubenstein; and other prominent people including Barbara Streisand and Abba Eban, an Israeli diplomat and politician and a scholar of the Arabic and Hebrew languages; and Leonard Harris interviewing Gross for a circa 1967 television program.
Photographs of Chaim Gross with artists include: Richard Avedon, Peter Blume, Hyman Brown (posing for Gross), Alexander Dobkin, Joseph Hirsch (possibly with Ernest Fine and Sol Wilson), Al Hirschfield, Karl Knaths (posing for Gross), Jack Levine, Louise Nevelson, Anthony Quinn, and Herman Rose. There is also a photograph of Gross with William Zorach, Helen Keller, and Anne Sullivan at a 1938 Sculptor's Guild outdoor exhibition in which Helen Keller is admiring one of Gross's sculptures. Photographs of Gross with Isaac, Moses, and Raphael Soyer include a portrait of Gross, Moses Soyer and L. Riebuck, 1924, by Richard Alan Fox; a photo of Gross with Arnold Newman and Raphael Soyer; and a photo of Joseph Stella posing for Moses Soyer.
Photographs of exhibition installations include Gross's first one-man show at Gallery 144 West 13th Street; a 1939 Sculptors Guild exhibition; a 1957 Duveen-Graham Gallery exhibition; a 1959-1960 solo exhibition at the Whitney Museum of American Art; and a 1967 exhibition at Forum Gallery.
People pictured at exhibition openings and receptions in this series include Silvia Carewe, Lily Harmon, Irving Marantz, and Sol Wilson at a Jewish Museum opening (1953); Anne Brigadier, Lena Gurr, Gerrit Hondious, Joseph Kaplan, Bernard Simon, and Sabina Teichman at a 1957 opening; Bill Barrett, Helen Beling, Jose de Creeft, Philip Evergood, Vincent Glinsky, Lorrie Goulet, Roy Gusson, Cleo Hartwig, Luise Kaish, Lily Landis, and Sidney Simon at two Sculptors Guild exhibitions at Lever House; Jose de Creeft, Joseph Hirshhorn, and Raphael Soyer at 1970-1976 openings; and Gross with Alice Neel and Raphael Soyer, circa 1980s. There are also photos of the opening for Gross's 1977 retrospective at the Jewish Museum picturing Gross with artists, collectors, and gallery owners.
Oversized photos housed in Box 22, Folder 5
Oversized photos housed in Box 22, Folder 4
Oversized photo housed in Box 22, Folder 5
Oversized photos housed in Box 22, Folder 6
Photos of Gross's works of art primarily document sculpture executed between 1922 and the 1980s. Additional photos include sculpture installations, Gross's commissions Six Days of Creation and Ten Commandments, some of his Works Progress Administration works, stained glass windows, and watercolors and drawings.
The Unprocessed Addition is comprised of three sketchbooks.
A journal; writings; lists of photographs; photographs; and printed material.
REEL 2910: A journal, 1933; and two "literary papers" from 1934 titled NAIVETE for which Grossman was editor and contributor, often signing his pieces "El Cid".
REEL 3361: 2 press releases and a clipping, concerning an exhibition of Grossman's work; lists of photographs; photographs taken by Grossman, 1949-1954, of art-related activities in Provincetown, 1950-1952, of the Kootz Gallery, 1954, of Highfield, 1952, and of artists including: Seymour Lipton, Chaim Gross, Hans Hofmann, Ruth Reeves, Jack Hall, Bobbie and Dagmar Lilian, and Weegee.
The papers of Sidney Gross include scrapbooks, art works, writings, exhibition catalogs, and a biographical outline.
Reel N70-56: Writings, on the philosophical and psychological implications of art and aesthetics, color theories, artistic techniques, and, generally, the history of art; drawings; exhibition catalogs; clippings; and a few miscellaneous items.
Reel N70-61: A biographical outline; lecture notes kept by one of his students; scrapbooks containing clippings and notices of Gross's shows; and ten letters to Francis Taylor, Gross's former high school art teacher, 1939-1950.
Clippings from New Orleans newspapers, particularly the DAILY PICAYUNE, a few notes, and four letters. Most clippings concern the sale of art works, especially auction sales. Letters also concern the sale of paintings and are from Samuel Putnman Avery, D. Alfredo Hitter (?), 1890, and two unidentified correspondents. The scrapbook was probably kept by New Orleans art dealer Charles Galvani in 1840s-1850s, and later by collector and publisher Armand Hawkins, late nineteenth century.
The Karl Gruppe papers measure 3 linear feet and date from circa 1880-1985.Biographical materials include a resume and family history of Gruppe and various biographical sketches of others. Correspondence is to and from Karl Gruppe and is with Karl Bitter and his family, the Society of Medalists, and David Oppenheim, and regards commissions and organizations. Project files consist of materials related to various projects completed by Gruppe including the Henry Hudson Memorial, the William Rufus King Memorial, and the Monument Restoration Project. Also included are projects for war memorials, a joint outdoor exhibition for the National Sculpture Society, and various Boroughs in New York City. Personal business records include those related to the National Academy of Design and National Sculpture Society including proceedings, financial material, business records, reports, and other materials. Also included are records relating to various other institutions and copyright records.
Printed material consists of exhibition announcements and catalogs, news clippings, materials related to Karl Bitter and Eisenhower College, and a published copy of The Dream City: A Portfolio of Photographic Views of the World's Columbian Exposition (1893). Also included are materials related to Gruppe's time working with the Public Works of Art Project in New York City. Photographic material includes personal photographs of Gruppe's family, and friends, including Laura Gardin (Fraser), Anthony de Francisci, Karl Bitter and the Bitter family, photographs of Marcella Sembrich, and photographs of the interior, garden, and studio of Karl Bitter. Also included are photographs of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition (1904) and photographs of Gruppe's artwork which include nitrate negatives stored separately.
Biographical materials include a resume and family history of Gruppe and various biographical sketches of others.
Correspondence is to and from Karl Gruppe and is with Karl Bitter and his family, the Society of Medalists, and David Oppenheim, and regards commissions and organizations.
Project files consist of materials related to various projects completed by Gruppe including the Henry Hudson Memorial, the William Rufus King Memorial, and the Monument Restoration Project. Also included are projects for war memorials, a joint outdoor exhibition for the National Sculpture Society, and various Boroughs in New York City. Material related to the New York City Boroughs consist of a list of monuments and fountains in New York City surveyed for renovation by Gruppe under the PWAP from 1934-1937. Each survey includes a general description, sometimes a photograph, a statement of its condition, repairs needed and renovation costs.
Personal business records include those related to the National Academy of Design and National Sculpture Society including proceedings, financial material, business records, reports, and other materials. Also included are records relating to various other institutions and copyright records.
Printed material consists of exhibition announcements and catalogs, news clippings, materials related to Karl Bitter and Eisenhower College, and a published copy of The Dream City: A Portfolio of Photographic Views of the World's Columbian Exposition (1893). Also included are materials related to Gruppe's time working with the Public Works of Art Project in New York City.
Photographic material includes personal photographs of Gruppe's family, and friends, including Laura Gardin (Fraser), Anthony de Francisci, Karl Bitter and the Bitter family, photographs of Marcella Sembrich, and photographs of the interior, garden, and studio of Karl Bitter. Also included are photographs of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition (1904), and photographs of Gruppe's artwork which include nitrate negatives stored separately.
The papers and photographs of Cuban born American photographer Ramón Guerrero measure 0.6 linear feet and date from 1978 to 1998. The collection is comprised of biographical material, correspondence, artist files, printed materials, and photographs by Guerrero that include portraits of Cuban American artists. Also included are several photographs relating to the Cuba-USA: The Next Generation exhibition in Chicago, including one group photo and individual portraits of several of the participating artists.
The series consists of four appointment books for the years 1990 to 1993 and photocopies of guest book pages from the exhibition Myths and Realities.
4 books
Photocopies
Correspondence is with the Cintas Foundation, Inc., Washington Project for the Arts, and galleries and schools regarding exhibitions and volunteering. A recommendation letter by Marta Gutierrez for Guerrero's application to the Florida Individual Artist Fellowship Program is also included.
Correspondence is with the Cintas Foundation, Inc., Washington Project for the Arts, and with galleries and schools regarding exhibitions and volunteering. A recommendation letter by Marta Gutierrez for Guerrero's application to the Florida Individual Artist Fellowship Program is also included.
Files for artists contain photographs of the artists and their artwork, invoices, and printed material.
Clippings of reviews, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and newsletters relating to Guerrero and his photography are in this series.
Photocopies
A self-portrait and photographs by Guerrero of Cuban American artists include portraits of Juan Abreu, Antonio Enrique Amaral, Luis Cruz Azaceta, Mario Bencomo, Maria Brito, Lydia Cabrera, José Martínez-Cañas, Maria Martínez-Cañas, Pablo Cano, Miguel Cubiles, Emilio Falero, Enrique Guy Garcia, Florencio Gelabert, Shirley Henderson, Lou Laurin-Lam, Raquel Lazaro, Nicolas Leiva, Guido Llinas, Fernando Luis, Laura Luna, Gina Pellon, Enrique and Noella Riverón, Lydia Rubio, Enrique Labrador-Ruiz, Guillermo Serrano, Frederic Snitzer, Cesar Trasobares, Estevan Vallejo, and Lorenzo Garcia Yega II. Also included are several photos taken in January of 1991 relating to the Cuba-USA: The Next Generation exhibition in Chicago, including one group photo and individual portraits of several of the participating artists, including Juan Boza, Maria Castagliola, Raquel Mendieta, Osvaldo Mesa, Cesar Trasobares, and Marc Zuver.
Includes a group photograph taken during the exhibition CUBA-USA: The First Generation-In Search of Freedom in Chicago, I.L.
Personal and business correspondence; a magazine of art; a scrapbook; poems and jottings; and a photograph of Guglielmi. Personal correspondence consists of some drafts of Guglielmi's letters to friends and students, occasionally interpreting his work. Business correspondence files include the Downtown Gallery, the MacDowell Colony, other museums, dealers, universities, associations, and in a few cases, other artists. Also included is the first copy of "I Hope to Sing Again", 1944, by Guglielmi.
Three letters concerning Heintzelman's exhibition arrangements with Guiot. In the first and second letter, Heintzelman postpones a proposed exhibition because of ill health; and in the final letter, Heintzelman conveys the shipping specifics of the prints to be exhibited.
A transcript of an interview with Ernst Hass conducted 1969 Mar. 1 by Inge Bondi.
The Richard Haas papers measure 6 linear feet and are dated 1937 to 2012, bulk 1970-2012. His work and career as a muralist, printmaker, and educator are documented by correspondence, writings, printed material, sketchbooks, and photographs.
Haas's correspondence relates to commissions, exhibitions, lectures, publications, teaching, and other professional activities. Correspondents include clients, galleries, professional organizations, critics, artists, architects and others. Also found is small amount of personal correspondence. Writings and notes by Haas include artist's statements, notes, lectures, a travel diary, papers and class notes from his undergraduate and graduate student days. Writings about him are a New Museum exhibition catalog text and a student paper. Subject files relate to Haas's professional activities and interests. They document exhibitions and projects, relationships with galleries, membership and participation in various organizations, and routine business matters. Sketchbooks (17 volumes) contain drawings, sketches, and a few watercolors, along with scattered writings and notes.
Included with program for his father's memorial service are a few loose sheets with notes for Hass's remarks and the sketches he made for the program. Also found is a copy of the invitation to a dinner celebrating his wife's birthday.
Most of Haas's correspondence concerns professional matters such as commissions, lectures, publication permissions, teaching, and publicity. Correspondents include clients and potential clients, galleries, professional organizations, critics, artists, and architects. Also found is a small amount of personal correspondence that includes a few letters from his father and brother, invitations, and routine social correspondence.
Richard Haas's writings include artist's statements, lecture notes, and travel diary, along with his student notes and papers. Notebooks include University of Minnesota class notes, writings on art topics and other subjects, as well as general notes and lists. The majority of the college papers were written when Haas was a graduate student at University of Minnesota; though one or two may date from his undergraduate years at the University of Wisconsin. The travel diary contains brief daily entries about a trip to China and Japan, October 8-Novemer 1, 2007. Entries dated December 25, 1911-January 13, 2012 record a trip to London, Abu Dhabi, Athens, Barcelona, and Rome. The volume's final few pages contain undated architectural drawings and Hyatt Home project notes, 2009.
Writings about Haas are the text of an exhibition catalog and a student paper.
Subject files relate to Haas's professional activities and interests. They document his membership and participation in various organizations, relationships with galleries, and the writing and production of the catalogue raisonné of his prints.
Printed material mentions Haas or contains reproductions of his work. Among the miscellaneous printed items are newsletters, calendars, press releases and publicity surrounding his work.
Artwork consists of sketches and drawings. Those of Wyllie House and the dam at Taliesin were done when, as a teenager, Haas spent time at Taliesen with his stonemason great uncle who worked for Frank Lloyd Wright. Sketches and drawings done at meetings are identified portrait heads in pencil. Project studies are in pencil and ink. In addition to original drawings, some photocopies are interspersed.
Sketchbooks (17 volumes) contain pencil drawings and sketches including a few in colored pencil; also found are some drawings in ink and colored marker, along with a few watercolor paintings. Many volumes contain writings and notes, including: an artist's statement, notes for Clement Greenberg's lecture at Bennington College, trip itineraries, a list of photographs ordered from the Library of Congress, travel expense records, and project notes.
Photographs from Haas' childhood are snapshots of him with his siblings and parents. Studio portraits include a high school graduation picture and another taken while he was in the U.S. Army. Also found are views of Haas with his artwork and a group photograph of David Findlay Jr. Gallery artists. Photographs of probable relatives - most likely grandparents and parents - are unidentified. Among these family photographs are views of Haas's father and/or great uncle at their butcher shop in Spring Green, Wisconsin.
Biographical material, letters, notes and writings, a monograph design, printed material, a scrapbook, and photographs.
REEL 2813: Eighteen letters to Haberle regarding the exhibition and sale of his work, 1891-1901; and a letter from J. William Middendorf to Haberle's son-in-law, Victor Demmer, concerning a Haberle exhibition at the Whitney Museum of Art, 1966.
REEL 3753: 176 drawings, 1882-1931, and 24 commercially printed greeting cards.
UNMICROFILMED: Biographical material; an autobiographical account, 1925; letters to Haberle from colleagues discussing his work, 1870-1915; letters from Haberle to his wife Sarah "Sadie" Haberle, 1893-1898, and his daughter Vera, 1898; and letters to Vera and Victor Demmer and Gladys Haberle Fresnada concerning Haberle's work, 1960-1971, from Alfred Frankenstein and others; notes and writings including poems, 1925, musical annotations, a card file on writing, 8 pages from a travel journal, 1931, and "directions for finishing the painting donated to New Britain."
Also included are a monogram design, 1903; photographs of Haberle, members of his family, 1894, works of art, 1888, views of 2 houses, 1960, and artists in their studios including Georges Clairin, Benjamin Constant, Jean Léon Gérome, Mihaly Munkacsy, and Georges Rochegrosse; clippings, 1887-1970; a scrapbook containing greeting cards and stickers; and printed material, 1874-1932.
Two handwritten letters, one dated May 19, 1886, and page two of a letter from 1901 from Sir Francis Seymour Haden to the art dealer Frederick Keppel. In the 1886 letter, Haden writes about purchasing a specific etching for sale, his country home in Alresford, and his dislike for London's climate. In the 1901 letter (page 2 only), Haden replies to Keppel's request for one of Haden's mezzotint prints, "Early Riser," writing that one is not available.
The papers of Greek American sculptor and educator Dimitri Hadzi measure 37.2 linear feet and date from 1910s-2007, with the bulk of records dating 1936-2007. The collection documents Hadzi's career through biographical material; correspondence; diaries, notebooks, and other writings; exhibition, gallery and museum, teaching, and project files; personal business records; printed material; photographs, some artwork, audio recordings, and motion picture films.
Biographical material includes files pertaining to Hadzi's education at Cooper Union (1946-1950) and Polytechnion in Athens, Greece (1950-1951) as well as his high school years at Brooklyn Technical High School (1936-1940); years enlisted in the Army Air Force (1942-1946); and his hobbies of music, mineral collecting, and geology. Also found are address books, honors and awards, interviews, and resumes. Hadzi's professional correspondents include artists, art historians, architects, and professional organizations. Also found is personal correspondence with family, friends, and acquaintances, most extensively during his years in the military.
Diaries and notebooks consist of memoranda books, travel logs, and annotated calendars. Writings include drafts, correspondence, and some printed material from Dimitri Hadzi (1996) by Peter Selz. Material gathered for his incomplete memoir, artist statements, and writings about Hadzi are also present.
Exhibition files shed light on various group and solo exhibitions of Hadzi's work. The files mostly consist of shipping records, correspondence, press releases and other printed matter, photographs, and loan documents. Gallery and museum files include loan and sale agreements, price lists, clippings, newsletters, shipping information, and some papers related to exhibitions.
Project files include sketches and blueprints, correspondence, legal documents, shipping information, and some audiovisual material regarding the installation of Hadzi's sculptures. The files also pertain to recasted sculptures, small-scale projects, and unexecuted commissions. Teaching Files include administrative correspondence, clippings, lecture and discussion notes, course descriptions, and correspondence from Hadzi's tenure as Visual and Environmental Studies professor at Harvard University. Papers related to instructor positions, employment opportunities, and lectures outside of Harvard are also present. Personal business records include sales, inventories, and other financial material; correspondence, shipping information, and price lists from foundries and material distributors; studio logs, correspondence, and notes.
Printed materials consist of exhibition invitations, announcements, post cards, and books; news clippings and articles; printed matter from special events, exhibitions of other artists, press releases, and newsletters. Photographs include portraits and snapshots of Hadzi, depicting him working in studios and foundries, at installation sites and events, and with his family. Also included are photographs of other artists, Hadzi's travel in Japan, and his artwork. Artwork found in this collection consists of six sketchbooks, several small drawings, and one woodblock.
Audiovisual material is extensive and includes documentation of the creation, installation, and exhibition of some of Hadzi's work. The majority of the footage centers on the creation and installation of the Thermopylae sculpture in front of the JFK Federal Building in Boston, Massachusetts in 1968.
The files consist of address books, travel ephemera, identification cards and passports, honors and awards, several editions of Hadzi's curriculum vitae, and some interviews. Course notebooks, notes, certificates and some photographs papers document Hadzi's education at Brooklyn Technical High School (1936-1940), Cooper Union (1946-1950), and the Polytechnion in Athens, Greece (1950-1951). World War II files include photographs, printed materials, applications, reports, and memos from his time enlisted in the Army Air Force. Ephemera related to Hadzi's interest in geology, mineral collecting, and music can also be found in this series.
Hadzi's correspondents include architects, art historians, professional organizations, artists, collectors, and family members. The files contain some printed material, legal documents, and personal business records as well. Hadzi's military correspondence is with relatives and friends; it was during his time enlisted in the Army Air Force that his interest in drawing blossomed. Also present is one folder of letters that belonged to Dimitri's brother, Thomas Hadzi.
Annotated calendars, daily notebooks, memoranda books, travel logs, and some loose notes; several journals containing longer and more reflective entries by Hadzi; one notebook from Hadzi's time in the Pacific towards the end of World War II; and two notebooks titled "Etching and Engraving."
A few folders contain drafts, correspondence, press releases, clippings, and other papers related to Dimitri Hadzi (1996) by Peter Selz. Papers compiled for Hadzi's incomplete memoir include letters, notes, printed material, and other ephemera that date back to the mid-1940s. Also present are some artist statements and writings about Hadzi and his work.
Exhibition files document group and solo exhibitions containing Hadzi's work. Folders may contain correspondence, clippings and press releases, photographs, loan agreements, and shipping details. Also found in this series are several countdown calendars and 11 exhibition guest books.
Project files include correspondence, sketches and blueprints, architectural plans, legal documents, photographs, printed material, and some audiovisual material. Several folders relate to Hadzi's projects as set designer and book illustrator.
Files include correspondence with architects, companies, municipalities, and organizations that commissioned Hadzi; printed material such as press releases, clippings, and books; some photographs of sites, models, installations, and events; legal documents; and some audio recordings. Almost all of Hadzi's sculptures from this series were installed in the United States, one exception being Hadzi's Bronze Doors, commissioned by the St. Paul Within-the-Walls church in Rome, Italy.
Correspondence, invoices, photographs, publicity material, and blueprints from small-scale projects, recasted sculpture installations, and unexecuted projects. Correspondence, press releases, and notes related to Hadzi's original illustrations for Anothony Hecht's The Venetian Vespers (1979) and for the printing of Seamus Heaney's poem, Keeping Going (1993). Materials from Hadzi's role as set designer for John Eaton's opera Traveling with Gulliver (1997) include printed material, notes, sketches, correspondence, invoices, and some photographs. One folder composed of competition correspondence is found at the end of the series.
Files relating to Hadzi's career as professor of Visual and Environmental Studies at Harvard University include administrative correspondence, some exhibition material, clippings, lecture and discussion notes, course descriptions, communication with his students, and schedules. Also present is material related to potential employment opportunities; Hadzi's time as visiting instructor at the Vermont Studio School; artist in residence at Dartmouth College, and to various lectures given by Hadzi outside of Harvard.
Files shed light on Hadzi's relationship with various galleries and museums in the United States and abroad. Material includes correspondence, loan and sale agreements, price lists, clippings, newsletters, shipping information, and some exhibition material.
Files relate to Hadzi's financial dealings, relations with foundries and material distributors, studio operations, and printmaking. Financial records include price lists, payments, inventories of art sold, loaned, or donated, and papers related to grants and fellowships from the American Academy in Rome, Louis Comfort Tiffany Foundation, and John Simon Guggenheim Foundation. Foundry and material files consist of Hadzi's correspondence, invoices, some photographs, and price lists. Studio operations are documented through bills, daily logs, phone messages, correspondence with assistance and students, and loose notes.
Clippings and articles contain stories about Hadzi, reviews of his work, and general publicity as well as some collected by Hadzi regarding other artists, books, history, geology, and music. Exhibition materials include announcements, posters, invitations, schedules, and some books. Also found in this series are post cards, invitations, event ephemera, press releases, newsletters, and two books owned by Hadzi on Greek history and culture.
Snapshots, contact sheets, and negatives of Hadzi, his friends and family, exhibitions and events, projects and installations, foundries, and at his studios.
This series includes six sketchbooks; several small drawings; one silhouette of Dimitri Hadzi from 1941; and one woodblock depicting a boudoir woman.
Documentary films and audio records, footage of events and exhibitions, project installations as well as scenes from foundries and in studios. The formats include VHS, U-Matic, Betacam, sound cassettes, and film reels.
Also included in this series are transfer slips, notes, correspondence, budget details, and outlines pertaining to Hadzi's "JFK Film Project." Although most of the papers regarding the project date from the late 1990s, the project centered around Hadzi's Thermopylae installed in front of the JFK Federal Building in Boston, Massachusetts in 1968.
Note on reel: PROJECTION RM 2B-63, DO NOT REMOVED DIMITRI WORKS IN BLACK WAX. Tail leader: Dimitri End Pict P. Holander. There is a VHS copy of this film housed with the collection.
Note on reel: DIMITRI WORKS IN BLACK WAX. Head leader: "DIMITRI" HEAD PIX. Tail leader: DIMITRI END PICT P. HOLANDER. K-463 J-7588 (crossed out) ORIG NEG PICTURE (sync point) R1 "DIMITRI-WORKS-IN-BLACK-WAX" KINESIS - INC. There is a VHS copy of this film housed with the collection.
Note on film can: TRIANGLE CHI-GRAY. On side of can: RICH GRAY GALLERY HADZI EXH N.G. PRINT. Note: possible shot list. Head leader: G4555 Hadzid
Note on can: R GRAY EXHIBITION NEGS, MAY BE OTHER MATERIAL NEG. Head leader: G 4555 HADZID
Note on can: C-39Z TYLER, Dimitri (illegible). Printing order form included. Tail leader: DIMITRI HADZI C-39Z TYLER ORD 1427 2X30.
Note on film can: TYLER EXHIBITION, TYLER EXH, (Illegible), BRACCIANO - SCULPTORS LUNCHEON DIMITRI 77222. Inside can lid: (illegible) 1-8-72. Head leader: Mr G DIMITRI - Ord. 17222
Lab label on can: CLIENTE: HADZI DIMITRI, Soggetto: TYLER EXHIBITION, Data: 1-8-72, Ordinativo 17222. Head leader: Mr G DIMITRI ord. 17222. This reel is the negative for "Tyler Exhibition" can 2.
Note on can: PLASTER DIVIDED DIVISO Desmantel, Mold Maker. 4307, B4, B6, B7, 1307, 1,4594, (Illegable numbers). Sticker: 131-2-32-4-52-6-7 16 MUCH TO BE CUT!!! (crossed out), (NICCI) Rossi, Muzi. Chalk on side of film roll: MOSTRA MONOLI 6/12/71 NEG 13370. Head leader: DIMITRI HADZI MOSTRA ORD 13370.
Note on film shipping container: HADZI OPTICAL OWENS - ILLINOIS PROPYLAG. Head leader: GTN OWENS ILLINOIS FS382 "DIMITRI HADZI: A RETROSPECTIVE VIEW" FCC #66127 82-241 5-14-82 HEAD. Tail leader: GENERAL TELEVISION NETWORK OWENS ILLINOIS FS382 "DIMITRI HADZI: A RETROSPECTIVE VIEW" FCC #66127 82-241 5-14-82 TAIL. There is a U-Matic copy of this film housed with the collection.
Note on can: SPOLETO '68, JUNE 25 29 (circle) (5205). B 16 - (DART) BUCKY FULLER, NOGUCHI, BERMAN, MOLLY. B 17 - NOGUCHI DUOMO SCULPTURE LUNCHEN. B18 NOGUCHI, RUSSEL HARRIS AND PRISCILLA MORGAN. VIEWED MAR 9 '93, VERY GOOD FOOTAGE DEDICATION, ETC. - PLENTY OK KIDS PLAYING IN/ON SCULPTURE.
Note on can: (illegible word) Sculptors (illegible words), Upside down (illegible words). Laboratory order form. Tail leader: ORD H 278 HADZI DIMITRI JFK.
Note on can: JFK - PRINT DATES? INSTALLED - MANY VIEWS, ETC. F 99, APRZ 99 JFK PRINT, INSTALLED - LONG SHOTS/CLOSE - UPS - BAND PLAYING (Illegible)?, SHOT OF MOLLY IN CAR/CHRISTINA/(illegible). Tail leader: Dimitri Hadzi JFK 1- JFK 2 - JFK 3 ORD H 189
Note on box: MICROSTAMPA and an address. On other side of box: SHOOT AT 80 WP/G FILTER (crossed out).
Note on can: 2, COPY FROM REVERSAL 6259, REVERSIBLE FILM, SUBJECTS:, NO:, CONTRO TIPO, ? Not in Proj. Order, Dimitri ord 6259, ON REEL, NOTE: EMULSION IS ON THE OUTSIDE (?). Head leader: Dimitri Boston ord 6393. Tail leader: DIMITRI HADZI JK BOSTON ORD 6393. Paired with Installations/Thermopylae/JFK Boston Negative Can 3 of 5.
Note on can: Numbers that correspond to possible shot list, (illegible note), NO REEL, Numbers that do correspond to shot list included in can. TACLIO ROSSI (written in red wax pencil). On side of can: same numbers that correspond to shot list in can.
Note on can: 1, COPY FROM REVERSIBLE FILM, SUBJECTS:, NO:, CONTRUTIPO, ?, 6393, Dimitri ord 6393, APR '99, 1/2 SCALE PLASTER AT DIMENTEL - WORKING ON IT WITH MAQUGITO - DISMANTELING + TO TRUCK, YARD + DOG. Note in can: Lab order form. Head leader: DIMITRI BOSTON ORD 6259. Tail leader: SIG DIMITRI J.K. BOSTON ORD 6259.
Note on can: Numbers that correspond to possible shot list, (illegible note), NO REEL, Numbers that do correspond to shot list included in can. TACLIO ROSSI (written in red wax pencil). On side of can: same numbers that correspond to shot list in can. Tail leader: DIMITRI A-70-1-71/A 72Z ORD 2916.
Note on can: Letters and numbers relating to a possible shot list, NICCI FOUNDRY POURING SEQUENCE (ON REEL). Two illegible notes included.
Note on can: REEL, ROSSI/MUZI MOLD MKE. MUZI - MOLD MKG SPHERE, PROJECTED OCT 11 '93 D/H. TAGLIO R (circle) SERIES. Note on reel: Mold Making, ROSSI - MUZI MOLD MAKE, (illegible) Reel tails. Head leader: DIMITRI BH6 - H7 - H8, ORD 5 (illegible) 96. Tail leader: DIMITRI B44 - 45 ORD 5424.
Note on can: DIMITRI, DA DIVIDERE, TACLIARE, 18 + 19 (?) rewind for projection
Note on film can: JFK COLOR, JFK - COLOR, AT ROSSI'S ROME.
Note on can: No. 93 '68, (illegible) #11 copy for (crossed out) Reversal Neg made also. 120' (illegible) Neg, Test Roll FM 12 (circled) (illegible and crossed out). Note on reel: RAGGED EDGE CAREFUL! Head leader: DIMITRI (crossed out) MIMITRI. Tail leader: S.E.K Boston ORD h 876. In the original housing, a trim was included with a note, "#13 Beginning of roll". The trim has been rehoused in "Thermopylae/JFK Boston Trims and Outtakes" Can 13 of 18.
Note on box: JFK BOSTON, B-58 NICCI, COLOR AUG 8, 1968, FURNACES, POURINGS,. ASA 170, DIN 23. B-58 COLOR. Other side of box: B-52 COLOR, 2. ((223 (illegible), 300 d223/m (illegible) 300/m (illegible)(all crossed out)). Note on film can: JFK BOSTON B. 58 NICCI FNDY, furnaces, pouring, (illegible). Aug. 8 1968 (T 3 zook) EF Ektachrome 7242. ((CHARGE TO D. HADZI, (illegible) 82 (crossed out))
Note on can: OLD BOLEX - MINN ROME ARCTURUS. Side of can: ARCTURUS BIRKERTS ROME MANOLIS. Possible shot list included. Head leader: DIMITRI old Bolex MINN ord 17225.
Lab label on can: CLIENTE: HADZI DIMITRI. Soggetto: OLD BOLEX MINN. Data: 1-8-72. Ordinativo: 17-225. On side of can: OLD-BOLEX-17225. Printing documentation included in can. Head leader: DIMITRI - old Bolex MINN - ord. 17225.
Note on can: VARIE DIMITRI, WA ARCTURUS, WAXES, GESSO
Note on reel: Tails - foundry. Date taken from documentation for the corresponding negative.
Note on reel: S. PAOLO 3, S PAOLO. Tail leader: H. Dimitri - S. Paolo ord. 4047 R 2.
Note on can: Negatives. Lab form. Data: 7-6-75, Ordinativo: 4047. ARCTURUS Tail leader: H Dimitri - S. Paulo ord 4047 - R. 1
Note on can: Negatives. Lab form. CLIENTE: HADZI DIMITRI, Soggetto: S. PAOLO, Data: 7-8-75, Ordinativo: 4047 ST PAUL (NICCI). Tail leader: H DIMITRI - S. PAOLO, ord 4047 R 2.
Master Sculptures include Bruce Beasley, Roger Bolomy, Dimitri Hadzi, High Townley, Tony Rosenthal and John Chamberlin. Recorded at the Oregon International Sculpture Symposium in 1976 in Eugene.
Note on box: JOHNSON WAX/RACING NEG (crossed out) REVERSAL, POSS. RIVER LEGENG. Note on other side of box: JOHNSON WAX RACINE, Hadzi's address.
Note on box: PORTLAND - River Legend. Note on can: Harvard Uni. Carpenter Center, PLUS - X REVERSAL, film specs, Date AUG '76, RIVER LEGEND - EUGENE. CHARGE TO D. HADZI. Sticker: CS35141
Note on box: PORTLAND - River Legend. Note on can: Harvard Uni. Carpenter Center, PLUS - X REVERSAL, film specs, Date AUG '76, RIVER LEGEND - EUGENE. CHARGE TO ME (crossed out) D. HADZI. Sticker: CS 35142
Note on box: PORTLAND - River Legend. Note on can: Harvard Uni. Carpenter Center, PLUS - X REVERSAL, film specs, Date AUG '76, DARK RIVER LEGEND - PORTLAND. CHARGE TO D. HADZI. Sticker: CS 35140.
Note on box: PORTLAND - River Legend. Note on can: Harvard Uni. Carpenter Center, PLUS - X REVERSAL, film specs, Date AUG '76, RIVER LEGEND - PORTLAND INSTALLATION. CHARGE TO D. HADZI. Sticker: CS 35139.
Note on box: PORTLAND - River Legend. Note on can: Harvard Uni. Carpenter Center, PLUS - X REVERSAL, film specs, Date AUG '76, RIVER LEGEND - PORTLAND INSTALLATION. CHARGE TO D. HADZI. Sticker: CS 35138.
A transcript of a monologue given by Ernst Halberstadt 1985 Mar. 18. Halberstadt relates his memories of working in New York for Ezra Winter and Diego Rivera on the Radio City Music Hall murals, describing his contributions to the paintings and his working methods.
Biographical information; a photograph of Hale; published and unpublished writings by Hale, including poems, a novel, and a book about fatherhood; and exhibition invitations, announcements, and posters.
The Jean Halpert-Ryden and Edward Ryden letters measure 0.01 linear feet and consist of 42 items that date from 1981 to 1997. The bulk of the collection is correspondence, but there are also 2 short biographical summaries, and one clipping from 1991, and a career resume for Jean Halpert-Ryden. Among the correspondents are Hildegarde and Ernst Haas, Edith Hamlin, Ernie and Frances Barrish, and Myril Adler of Myril Adler Arts Workshop. A few letters pertain to Edward Ryden.
Five photographs of Hamblet's work, three clippings, photocopies of her resume, an article in La Revue Moderne, November 15, 1932 and four exhibition catalogs, 1938-1940.
Two letters to "Mr. MacKenzie," one regarding a landscape painting by Hamilton "in the Academy."
Six photographs showing Hamlin at work on Federal Art Project murals for the Mission High School Library in San Francisco, 1937.
Twenty-nine letters from ceramicists Otto and Gertrud Natzler to Hella Hammid and three postcards from Otto and Gail Reynolds Natzler to Hammid, 1963-1973 and undated.
Twenty-nine letters from Otto and Gertrud Natzler to Hella Hammid and three postcards from Otto and Gail Reynolds Natzler to Hammid, 1963-1973 and undated.
Biographical material; correspondence, mostly of Hankin's wife, Estelle Hankins; artwork including sketchbooks, loose sketches, drawings; writings, including a facsimile of Hankins annotated manuscript for "The Way to Art" privately published in 1979 by Dorothy Morgan Levin, the executor of Hankins' estate, and "Primer of Art"; photographs; and printed material including exhibition catalogs, documenting the career of teacher and painter Abraham Hankins.
This microfilm collection of Harmon Foundation printed material contains exhibition catalogs, clippings, reproductions of paintings, articles, and miscellaneous printed items pertaining to African American artists
Correspondence with artists kept by Russell Lynes in his capacity as managing editor of Harper's Magazine, measures one linear foot and dates from 1946 to 1965. The files consist primarily of correspondence with young artists and illustrators wishing to submit material to the magazine. Biographical notes from the magazine's "Personal and Otherwise" column about the artists whose material was accepted, clippings, scattered original artwork, and printed reproductions of artwork, are also included.
Although brief, the exchanges found in this collection offer a glimpse into the early careers of the artists represented, who often penned introductions to their work, and provided biographical information. Some of the letters are illustrated. Artists represented include Edmond Amateis, Benny Andrews, Irene Aronson, Oscar Berger, Marvin Bileck, Isabel Bishop, Carlyle Brown, Claire Burch, Ivan Chermayeff, Richard E. Davis, Robert J. Day, Eldon Dedini, Harvey Dinnerstein, Dean Ellis, Joseph Farris, Helen Frank, Frank Gallo, William D. Gorman, Douglas W. Gorsline, William Gropper, John Groth, Albert Hirschfeld, Carl Holty, Anne M. Jauss, Hans Jelinek, Kay Kato, Ted Key, Bernard Krigstein, Joseph Low, Loren MacIver, Jack Markow, Reginald Marsh, Charles E. Martin, William Mauldin, Richard Mayhew, Edward Melcarth, Glen Michaels, Nicolas Mordvinoff, Robert Osborn, David Pascal, Bernard Perlin, Ben Shahn, Bernarda Bryson Shahn, Aaron Sopher, Saul Steinberg, Susanne Suba, Peter Takal, Tony Walton, Andy Warhol, and Robert J. Wolff.
In addition to correspondence with artists there are notes on telephone calls to artists used for updating information in the Harper's Magazine files, reference letters written by Lynes on behalf of some artists, correspondence and memoranda with others regarding publishing logistics, and printed material featuring artwork.
Although brief, the exchanges found in this collection offer a glimpse into the early careers of the artists represented, who often penned introductions to their work and provided biographical information. in addition to correspondence with artists there are on telephone calls to artists, reference letters written by Lynes, and printed material featuring artwork.
The Andy Warhol file relates to his work as an illustrator for John Cheever's "Vega" and other stories. Included are a letter with an ink sketch from Warhol, 1949, presumably in response to a request for biographical information: "...my life couldn't fill a penny postcard...i graduated from Carnegie Tech now i'm in NY city moving from one roach infested apartment to another"; a postcard to Frances Lattman, 1952, asking her to thank Lynes for letting him draw pictures for Shirley Jackson's stories and mentioning the possibility of a show of his drawings influenced by Truman Capote; an exhibition announcement for his Capote drawings at the Hugo Gallery; and three clippings from Harper's Magazine about Warhol, 1949-1952.
Complete set (13 issues) of the newsletter 108: An East Village Review (also titled 108 East Village Review and 108 Review) published between June 1986 and Winter 1988-89.
Files and 16 scrapbooks kept during Harris' tenure at various museums and participation in art organizations. Included are files on the Des Moines Association of Fine Arts, 1938-1940, containing material on the 1939 Worlds Fair and the WPA; the J.B. Speed Museum, 1950-1964, containing research material for Harris' FOURTEEN SEASONS OF ART ACCESSIONS IN KENTUCKY 1947-1960; the Henry Francis du Pont Winterthur Museum, containing newsletters, executive committee meeting minutes, letters, budget reports, by-laws and printed material; the Henry Ford Museum and Greenfield Village, containing material on the Edison Institute; American Federation of the Arts, 1969-1972; and the League of New Hampshire Craftsmen, 1973-1974.
Also included are eight volumes of study notes, syllabi and a bibliography from art history classes taken at Harvard University and New York University, 1930-1936.
Two letters, June 24 and July 14, 1917 from painter C. Bertram Hartman to patron Caroline C. K. Porter, regarding a batik. The letters are illustrated with Hartman's logo of a couple dancing.
The Lynda Roscoe Hartigan papers measure 25.8 linear feet and date from circa 1970-circa 2000. The material documents Hartigan's career as curator at the Smithsonian American Art Museum (SAAM). Included are project, exhibition and subject files relating to the Herbert Waide Hemphill Jr. and the Chuck and Jan Rosenak collections at SAAM, exhibitions at SAAM, Folk Art, and Black Art. Material includes correspondence, interviews, audio visual material, photographs, negatives, slides, writings and printed material.
In his correspondence with Hartigan (1979-1984), Harnly discusses Cornell, the Levy Gallery, the Index of American Design, his own career, and other artists such as Howard Taft Lorenz. Hartigan's correspondence concerning the exhibition includes letters from Harnly's friend Henry Warshaw. Hartigan's research materials on Harnly include her typed interview questions with Harnly's written responses, newspaper and magazine articles, exhibition catalogs and announcements, copies of the Index of American Design data sheets for Harnly's watercolors, an exhibition history and chronology, Harnly's undated autobiographical notes, two photographs of Harnly, and photographs of works of art by Harnly not included in the NMAA exhibition.
Writings by and about Hartley; list of Hartley paintings; photographs; and clippings.
REEL 495: 17 photographs of Hartley, ca. 1910-1943; 2 clippings; and a list of Hartley possessions at Bates College, Lewiston, Maine.
REELS 1368-1371: Manuscripts and typescripts of essays, short stories, and poems written by Hartley. Included also is a manuscript of an autobiography, "Somehow a Past," and eight essays not written by Hartley but one of which is about Hartley.
An unpublished copy of Hartmann's book " Esthetic Verities," written 1927-1932, and revised 1933.
Correspondence, art work, photographs, a ledger, diary entries, printed material, and a video recording.
Personal and professional correspondence, 1948-1992, includes letters from Hasen to his family, and from Dolph Baranik, Joseph Cornell, Hans Hofmann, Graham Sutherland, Cassie Schwartz, and others. Art work includes 6 drawings. Printed material consists of a book, CONTES DE L'INATTENDU, by Richard Parker, illustrated by Hasen, exhibition catalogs and announcements, 1948-1994, and clippings and articles, 1948-1992. Also included are twelve photographs of Hasen and friends; a bound volume listing print sales and loans, completed prints for 1977, and diary entries dated January and February, 1977 (some in French); a videotape (30 min.) of Hasen interviewed by Bill Page; and an award for the Emily Lowe Foundation Fourth Prize in Painting, 1953.
ADDITION: Primarily printed material, including exhibition announcements, catalogs, and reviews of shows in which Hasen was included. Also found are ca. ten letters, notably from artists John Hultberg, Paul Resika, and Harold Tovish, represented by one letter each.
Correspondence, memoranda and clippings.
Correspondence, photographs, writings, sketches, sketchbooks, scrapbook, and printed materials.
Reel 1426: Biographical information; correspondence, including 5 letters from John Marin; correspondence of Haskell's son, Ernest about his father; a lecture; a typed account of a canoe trip through the Everglades; writings on Haskell; sketches; a scrapbook; clippings and printed miscellany; and photographs.
Reel 1355: Family correspondence, principally between Ernest and his wife Emma; a biographical narrative about Ernest which was written by his daughter Hildegarde; five sketchbooks and nine printed items.
Reel 1400: 34 photographs of Haskell and his family.
Reel 105: Correspondence, clippings, priced lists of his works, bills for their sale, catalogs and miscellaneous papers. Included are letters from the Print Club, Philadelphia, from R.F. Randolph, and 15 letters from John Taylor Arms to Ernest Haskell, Jr., 1946-1950, concerning his father.
The papers of sculptor Sylvia Shaw Judson measure 4.3 linear feet and date from 1911 to 1975. Found are biographical materials, correspondence, writings, professional activities files, personal business records, printed material, and photographs of works of art.
Biographical materials include resumes and scattered artwork by Judson and others. Correspondence is largely professional and is with artists, galleries, institutions, and museums around the Midwest and the rest of United States. Judson's writings include articles and lectures about art but also include literary writings from her high school years. Material relating to Judson's career as an educator, sculptor, and writer may include research notes, photographs, and business documents. Business records contain receipts and invoices for the production and for the sale of her works. Of note are lists which document the location of her sculptures. Printed materials document Judson's sculpture and art career, and include published books she wrote or illustrated. Photographs are of works of art.
Found are subject files regarding Judson's work as a sculptor, educator, and writer. Files may contain correspondence, printed material, business and financial records, research, photographs, and drafts of writings and notes.
Found are account ledgers, contracts, and various invoices and receipts for the production and sale of sculpture.
Printed materials largely concern Judson's sculpture and include art related publications, clippings, exhibition material, and reproductions of works of art. Also found are published copies of books written by Judson, a copy of a book written by her mother and illustrated by Judson, and issues of The Lantern, Judson's high school literary magazine.
Photographs depict Sylvia Shaw Judson's sculpture and photos may be of the work in situ or in a studio. Some files may include photos of Judson or others with various sculpture. The file for Corwin & Noah includes an original drawing of the work by Judson. Also found here are 12 glass plate negatives.
REEL D10: Letter to an unidentified person regarding the sale of some of Hassam's paintings.
REEL D30: Postcard to W.J. Whittemore, Esq.
letters to Hatt from Ernest T. Seton, 1924-1931.
Biographical material (1931-1982), correspondence (1920-1983), business records (1958-1973), subject files concerning the WPA's Federal Art Project (1934-1976) and printed material (1918-1981) reflect the activities and careers of Clement Haupers and Clara Mairs.
Biographical material concerning Clement Haupers consists of 2 portrait drawings, an autobiographical account, a biographical account written by Les Grunwald, 6 clippings (1974-1982), an essay "Clement Haupers: Art Appreciation, Arlington Library" by Romeo Gutsche, a transcript of an interview conducted by Peter Lewson, and a resume (1943). Biographical material for Clara Mairs includes 2 biographical accounts, 2 exhibition catalogs (undated and 1976), and a clipping of her obituary (1963).
Correspondence (1920-1983) consists of letters exchanged between Haupers, Mairs, their family members, and colleagues. Letters exchanged between Haupers and Mairs primarily concern the annual Minnesota State Fair exhibitions (1933-1936) and Haupers' involvement in the Federal Art Project in Washington, D.C. (1943). Other letters concern the couple's art-related activities and Haupers' teaching and art restoration work, and include magazine illustrations by Haupers and Mairs. Correspondents include artists Cameron Booth, Andre Boratko, Floyd E. Brewer, Alida Flexer, Frances Cranmer Greenman, Patsy Reed High, LeRoy Neiman, Alexander Oja, James E. Rea, and Erik Smith.
Business records (1958-1973), primarily Mairs' estate documents, include her will (1958), correspondence relating to her death, probate court documents and inheritance tax documents. Financial material consists of sales receipts for the sale of art work (1969-1973). Printed material consists of clippings (1918-1981) and exhibition catalogs (1929-1979).
A subject file on the St. Paul Arts and Crafts Center (1934-1935), which was supported by the State Emergency Relief Administration, contains a description of the Art Center, a list of classes, clippings, and photographs of classes and students' work. A second subject file on the Haupers' work for the Work Projects Administration's Federal Art Project (1937-1976) includes reports, an essay "Minnesota Artist" (1938), exhibition catalogs, brochures, and photographs.
The scattered papers of painter Martin Johnson Heade measure 0.4 linear feet and date from 1853 to 1904. the bulk of the collection consists of letters from his friend and fellow artist, Frederic Edwin Church between 1866-1899. Within the papers is an annotated sketchbook, circa 1853-1877, and a detailed handwritten notebook about hummingbirds dating from circa 1864 and circa 1881. Also found are a few letters and notes from others, deeds, and an 1865 exhibition catalog.
The collection consists of forty letters, some illustrated, from Frederic Church discussing his paintings, his studio, trips abroad to Rome, Syria, and Mexico, his health and his family, and other artists. Church also responds to Heade's letters and provides advice on various subjects. Letters from others include a letter expressing thanks from May Camphen and a letter from the Illinois Audubon Society to the Estate of Martin Johnson Heade requesting a likeness of Mr. Heade for their collection. Also found is a note of praise to Sarita Brady. Within the papers is an annotated sketchbook by Heade containing pencil drawings of animals and landscapes as well as a few notes on art and his travels to South America and a detailed handwritten notebook that includes an essay and other notes on hummingbirds. Miscellaneous papers include deeds for Heade's property in Chicago, Illinois, and an 1865 catalog for the "Exhibition of the Royal Academy of Arts" in which Heade exhibited.
This notebook contains a draft introduction to "Gems of Brazil" which would have been written circa 1864, following a trip to Brazil. Heade left Brazil for London in early 1864, where he tried to publish his book, but abandoned the idea and left England in 1865. Entries later in the notebook, including references to "game monopolies" and painting sales, seem related to events in 1881.
Two letters, 1860-1861, from Healy to Colonel E. G. W. Butler, about Healy's portrait of Mrs. Lewis painted for Butler, and about Healy's travels in the United States.
The records of art collector and dealer Jimmy Hedges and his Rising Fawn Folk Art Gallery measure 23.5 linear feet and 15.63 GB and date from 1969-2016, with the bulk of the material dating from 1991-2013. The collection documents Hedges's career as a dealer of outsider art and as an advocate for self-taught artists. Records include administrative and sales records, correspondence, artist files, collector and gallery files, exhibition and art fair files, regional files, printed and digital material, photographic material, and unidentified sound and video recordings. The bulk of the collection consists of artist files and color photographs documenting hundreds of artists that Hedges visited at their homes and studios, including Georgia Blizzard, Howard Finster, Homer Green, Bessie Harvey, Danny Hoskinson, Paul Lancaster, A.J. Mohammed, Charlie Simmons, Jimmy Lee Sudduth, Mose Tolliver, and Purvis Young, among many others.
Administrative and sales records include Hedges's numerous address books, mailing lists, and client information, as wells as art appraisals, auction records, and art inventory lists. Documentation on the Rising Fawn Folk Art Gallery at Lookout Mountain include records of the gallery construction, gallery scrapbook, sculpture garden records, digital records, and postcard designs. Also found here are extensive gallery sales records, including sales books which record each transaction with the date, name of purchaser, description of artwork, and sales price. Many of these sales books were used to document sales at regional art fairs and events. Additional sales records include print-outs of online eBay transactions. Researchers should note that additional sales records can be found within the Artist Files, Collector and Gallery Files, Exhibition and Art Fair Records, and Regional Files.
Correspondence is scattered and includes greeting cards, postcards, and letters received by Hedges from artists and collectors, as well as a small amount of incoming and outgoing gallery business correspondence with arts organizations, galleries, and others. Researchers should note that most of Hedges's correspondence can be found within the other series in this collection.
Found here are nearly 200 files containing Hedges's documentation on outsider, folk, and self-taught artists. Files may contain artist fact sheets written by Hedges, postcards, brochures, correspondence, photographs, and purchase and sales records. Research material on artists include newspaper and magazine clippings, photocopies of publications, and exhibition catalogs. A few files also include digital photographs and recordings. One videocassette is included in the file on Herbert Hemphill and one sound cassette is included in the file on Howard Finster. Also found are three folders containing research material on quilters and the Southern quilting tradition. Researchers should note that Hedges's extensive collection of photographs of artists and their artwork is included in Series 8: Photographic Material. The 2018 addition contains further material on Purvis Young.
Works described in videos: Family of Circles Having Fun; Tubular Stationary Rotary Mechanism; Behind Granpaw's Toolshed; Odyssey Merging with the Flow; and, Vanilla Blue.
Oversized material housed in OV 32.
"Studios at the Lakes - A Tribute to Herbert Waide Hemphill Jr."
Oversized item housed in OV 32.
Collector and gallery files document sales and consignments between Rising Fawn Folk Art Gallery and private art collectors and art galleries. Files may include sale transaction documents, invoices, consignment and price lists, correspondence, and photographs of artwork.
Found here are files documenting Jimmy Hedges's participation in outsider and folk art fairs and the loan of artwork from the Rising Fawn Folk Art Gallery to exhibitions. Of note are records of the "Intuit" art fair in Chicago, "Folk Fest" in Atlanta, and the "Outsider Art Fair" in New York. Files on these events may include brochures and programs, agreements and registration forms, sales records, lists of artwork, photographs, and digital materials. Additional photographs of events and art fairs are found in Series 8: Photographic Material.
Regional Files were created by Jimmy Hedges to document his travels throughout the United States to visit artists, art collectors, galleries, and attend art shows and events. Files primarily provide documentation by state and may include lists of contacts, notes, sales records, maps, brochures, correspondence, and photographs.
Printed material includes annotated catalogs for the Slotin Folk Art Auction, as well as news clippings, magazines, newsletters, and exhibition catalogs, and announcements regarding Folk Art. Additionally there are a small number of Rising Fawn Folk Art Gallery brochures and postcards ar. One documentary in digital format, Visionary Voices of the South, and a vinyl sound recording of music by Borbetomagus and Shaking Ray Lewis are also found here.
Photographic material includes thousands of color photographs, digital photographs, and a few slides taken by Jimmy Hedges to document his visits with artists, studios, works of art, exhibitions, art fairs, other events, and travel. Hedges visited the homes and studios of hundreds of outsider and folk artists and photographs of these visits include snapshots of Hedges with the artist, their work spaces, and individual works of art. Of note are extensive photographs of Georgia Blizzard, Howard Finster, Homer Green, Bessie Harvey, Danny Hoskinson, Paul Lancaster, A.J. Mohammed, Charlie Simmons, Jimmy Lee Sudduth, Mose Tolliver, and Purvis Young. Also found are several photograph albums containing photographs of multiple artists. The 2018 addition contains further material on Purvis Young.
Photographs of events include several events and art fairs, including extensive documentation of the "Folk Fest" in Atlanta, "Intuit" art show in Chicago, and "Outsider Art Fair" in New York. Travel and personal photographs document Hedges's regional sightseeing, unidentified artist and art gallery visits, performances, and images of Lookout Mountain, Georgia.
Found here are five unidentified VHS video recordings, as well as one identified sound cassette.
Correspondence concerning teaching positions, 1972-1974, (13 items); notes taken as a student; photographs of Hedrick's work, 1954-1972, and photographs of Hedrick, Joan Brown, Jay DeFeo, Leo Valledor and the San Francisco Mime Troupe, 1957-1969; and miscellany.
Twenty-five drawings, 1926-1963, by Arthur W. Heintzelman.
The papers of ceramicists and educators Otto and Vivika Heino measure 2.3 linear feet and date from 1895 to 2002, with the bulk of the records dating from the 1940s to 2000. The material documents the lives and careers of Otto and Vivika Heino through a mix of personal and professional papers, printed material, a video recording of a documentary, and photographs.
Personal and professional papers consist of correspondence, personal business records, exhibition papers, scant financial records, resumes, writings, and a video recording of a documentary titled "You Are the Miracle: Exploring the Creative Process."
Printed material includes newspaper and magazine clippings, mailings and advertisements from The Pottery, announcements, advertisements, and some catalogs from Heino exhibitions, studio events, and sales. Printed material can also be found in two scrapbooks.
Photographs depict Otto and Vivika working and teaching in their studios, exhibitions, professional events, family and friends and friendly gatherings, marionette shows, pets, and properties.
This series includes personal papers such as plans, correspondence, and other materials related to the Heino's house; correspondence with friends and family; and awards and certificates received by the two artists. Professional papers consist of correspondence, price lists, loan forms, invoices, shipping documents, and acquisition information. Also found are some printed material and photographs that document the Heino's exhibitions and their relationships with museums, galleries, and professional organizations; scattered writings by and about the pair, including formulas, and a video recording of a documentary about them.
Found here are articles and newspaper clippings on the two artists, including articles documenting Vivika's various Marionette groups; announcements from exhibitions, sales, workshops, and open houses; and several exhibition catalogs. Two scrapbooks contain clippings related to marionettes, other artists and art movements, and travel, as well as Vivika's MA commencement schedule, and some photographs and correspondence. This series also contains mailings and advertisements from The Pottery, a studio and retail store which Otto and Vivika operated in California.
Images include photographs and some slides that depict the artists in their studios, with their art, at professional events and friendly gatherings, and teaching. Images of Vivika include baby portraits, pictures from marionette shows, and pictures of her family. Images of Otto include snapshots from his time in the military in Europe, and photos of his family. Also included are some images of artwork and The Pottery, and images of the couple's pets, properties, and exhibitions.
Biographical material; an annotated chronology of events and activities; a list of illustrations; published illustrations and articles; book jackets; personal and family photographs and photographs of his sculpture; a small group of correspondence; press clippings; and scrapbooks containing clippings, illustrations and cartoons. Included is an extended reminiscence of Held's boyhood in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Correspondence with Leonard Baskin, Saul Baizerman and J. Paul Getty; biographical information; photographs of the artists and their work; printed matter; and a sketch of Baizerman by Held. Also included are writings and photographs by Held about a Florentine painting.
Clippings regarding Hellman's Public Works of Art Project mural for the Houston, Texas post office, 1934.
Two letters, 1942 and 1943, from Albert Eugene Gallatin to Hellman concerning the relocation of Gallatin's art collection, the Museum of Living Art, from New York University to the Philadelphia Museum of Art; a press release from NYU about the move; and photocopies of 6 articles about Gallatin by Hellman in THE NEW YORKER, 1934-1952.
Papers relating to Helm's biography of John Marin, JOHN MARIN (1948), including: correspondence, 1946-1964, with John Marin, John Marin, Jr., and others; lists of paintings; photos of Marin and works of art; clippings; exhibition catalogs and announcements, 1924-1955 and miscellany.
Unmicrofilmed: Research files for Hendricks's books, EADWEARD MUYBRIDGE, FATHER OF THE MOTION PICTURE, 1975; THE PHOTOGRAPHS OF THOMAS EAKINS, 1972; WINSLOW HOMER, 1979; AND ALBERT BIERSTADT: PAINTER OF THE AMERICAN WEST, 1979, containing correspondence, manuscripts, notes, photographs, clippings and printed material. Also included are vintage photographs by Bradley and Rulofson, I.W. Taber, Carleton E. Watkins and the Bierstadt Brothers, and an advertisement "Proposal for Publishing an Engraving of Mr. Bierstadt's picture of the Rocky Mountains."
Reel 3002: Research files for Hendricks's unpublished book on William Bradford, a New Bedford, Mass. marine painter. Included are correspondence, notes, slides, photographs, clippings, printed material, and a list of Bradford's paintings.
One letter to Mrs. Jesse C. Green, sending her his autograph.
The Glen Cooper Henshaw record book is an undated record book of 163 of Henshaw's paintings. Each painting in the record book has a snapshot and lists the dimensions, title, medium and color.
Papers concerning the Marguerite Wildenhain Retrospective Exhibition, 1980, including correspondence with Wildenhain, Gerhard Marcks, lenders to the exhibition and others; biographical essays by Gerhard Marcks and Terry Weihs, exhibition coordinator; lists of requested works; lender's files; loan agreement forms; slides and photographs of pottery by Wildenhain; and miscellany.
Files on the history of the foundation, sponsors, trustees, and advisory committees; declaration of trust and by-laws; appeal letters, 1974-1989; letters to the advisory committee, 1974-1988; press releases and publicity; financial statements, 1974-1987; application forms; correspondence with applicants; records of applications, 1976-1988; letters of regret to applicants; letters confirming awards; files on 46 Cooke Fellows, 1975-1988; and miscellany.
The records of Heritage Preservation's Rescue Public Murals program measure 1.2 linear feet and 10.68 GB and date from 2001 to 2013. The collection documents the assessment, restoration, and advocacy of several public outdoor murals throughout the country. Included are administrative records and project files containing email correspondence, project forms, press materials, photographs, technical specifications, and electronic records.
Administrative records include a few newspaper and magazine articles about the Rescue Public Murals program, forms used in mural assessments, and a brief institutional history. Also found are research notes, emails, and compiled resources regarding community murals, maintenance of public murals, and technical specifications for paints and other materials. General files include scattered meeting minutes and notes, email correspondence between program administrator Kristen Laise and others, drafts of program documents, and digital presentations.
Project files were maintained in two groups, by region and by mural project title. Files detail specific mural assessments, restoration work, project advocacy, and photographic documentation, and include forms, budgets, email correspondence, press materials, summaries, photographic prints, and records and photographs in digital format. Also found are unsorted photograph prints, slides, and digital photographs of various mural projects. Of note are extensive records detailing Rescue Public Mural's first restoration project in 2006 of "Homage to Seurat: La Grande Jatte in Harlem."
Materials concerning Herkomer, his brother John, and his student Edith M. Ashford.
Reel 2814: An undated newspaper clipping concerning "the London exhibition of his pictures;" two letters in German, and their translated typescripts, from John Herkomer to friends in the U.S., 1902, regarding his own family and experiences in the U.S.
Reel 3134: A letter, 1883, from Edith Ashford in London to her mother and father. Ashford writes of meeting Hubert von Herkomer and describes his plans for an art school at Bushey. Also included is a typescript of the letter.
Correspondence; a scrapbook; photographs; writings; and a copy of an education abstract.
UNMICROFILMED: Correspondence; writings, including poems and speeches; 2 clippings; a copy of an education abstract, 1965; and photographs of Hershey at work, and of his works of art.
REEL 3136: 8 letters; a scrapbook, 1929-1935, containing a photograph of Hershey, exhibition catalogs and announcements, and clippings.
Elizabeth Hertz letters from artists measure 0.21 linear feet and date from 1943-2006. Thirty-five letters and cards, mainly from William and Marguerite Zorach, document daily activities, visits, and reference art exhibitions and lectures. Also included are a few cards and letters from Tessim and Peggy Zorach and Dahlov Ipcar, and one letter from the Dayton Art Institute where Zorach lectured in 1951, for which the visit was facilitated by Elizabeth Hertz.
There is a 12 item unprocessed addition to this collection donated in 2023 that includes twelve letters from Stanton Macdonald-Wright to Elizabeth Hertz. Materials date from 1967-1969.
Thirty-five letters and cards, mainly from William and Marguerite Zorach, document daily activites, visits, and reference art exhibitions and lectures. Also included are a few cards and letters from Tessim and Peggy Zorach and Dahlov Ipcar, and one letter from the Dayton Art Institute where Zorach lectured in 1951, for which the visit was facilitated by Elizabeth Hertz.
The papers of artist and silent film actress Wilna Hervey and her lifelong companion painter Nan Mason date from 1883 through 1985 and measure 4.9 linear feet. The collection is comprised mostly of letters to Hervey and Mason from friends, colleagues, and Mason's father, Dan Mason, also a silent film actor. Also found are personal photographs and snapshots, Hervey's handwritten memoirs, as well as twelve folders of Dan Mason's papers.
Biographical materials include a personal narrative, notes on family history, newspaper clippings related to family, legal and financial records, and Wilna Hervey's notes on artwork.
Hervey and Mason were friends with many artists and their correspondence includes letters from artists such as Albert Heckman, Georgina Klitgaard, Manuel Komroff, Leon Kroll, Doris Lee, Fred Dana Marsh, Henry Lee McFee, William Pachner, Caroline and Paul Rohland, Andrée Ruellan, Eugene Speicher, and Dorothy Varian. There are very few letters written by Hervey or Mason, and the correspondence is mostly personal in nature. There are over 250 letters from Elsie Speicher, wife of portrait artist Eugene Speicher. Correspondence to Dan Mason has been separated and is filed in a separate series.
Wilna Hervey wrote a a number of handwritten memoirs of her days in the The Toonerville Trolley film series. She had hopes of publishing these one day and worked with writer Karin Whiteley on the project. Although her memoirs were never published, Hervey and Whiteley wrote and compiled materials for the book. Included in the Memoir Book Production series are handwritten memoirs by Hervey chronicling her years prior to and during the 1920s (many of the handwritten memoirs have been typed by Karin Whiteley). It also includes research materials, such as two typed synopses of The Toonerville Trolley scripts from Fontaine Fox's files, newspaper clippings, and playbills, seemingly intended to provide background and verification of the memoirs.
This collection also includes a few pieces of artwork; three small watercolor sketches by an unidentified artist, and a print by Edward Chavez.
Photographs are mostly snapshots of friends and family, life in Woodstock, New York and Anna Maria, Florida. Negatives originally housed in an un-postmarked envelope with a return address labeled "Betzwood Film Co.," appear to be from the filming of The Toonerville Trolley. In several of the negatives Wilna Hervey is dressed as The Powerful Katrinka, and in one negative Dan Mason is The Skipper.
The personal files of Dan Mason include letters from Hervey and Nan Mason, the bulk from their trip to Europe and North Africa in 1926-1927. This series also includes Dan Mason's own handwritten and typed memoirs, newspaper clippings, and financial records.
This series includes a personal narrative, notes on family history, newspaper clippings related to family, legal and financial records, and Wilna Hervey's notes on artwork.
Correspondence is mostly personal letters and covers subjects such as personal matters, updates on the lives of Woodstock residents, and the careers of artist friends. Early correspondence highlights Wilna Hervey's film career and travels. Other than the letters written by Nan Mason to Wilna Hervey, there are very few letters in this series written by either Hervey or Mason.
Notable correspondents include artists and friends Albert Heckman, Georgina Klitgaard, Manuel Komroff, Leon Kroll, Doris Lee, Fred Dana Marsh, Henry Lee McFee, William Pachner, Caroline and Paul Rohland, Andrée Ruellan, Eugene Speicher, and Dorothy Varian. There are over 250 letters from Elsie Speicher, wife of portrait artist Eugene Speicher. The bulk of Elsie Speicher's correspondence is from the months of November - March; between April to October each year the Speichers were usually in Woodstock with Hervey and Mason. Speicher occasionally sends correspondence from friends in common, notably Louise Lindin, Daphne Mattson, Caroline Rohland, Jean Rosen, and Andrée Ruellan.
Early correspondence from Karin Whiteley concerns a project to publish Hervey's memoirs (which were never published). Whiteley's correspondence also includes numerous enclosed newspaper clippings regarding Dan Mason's acting career. Additional correspondence from Karin Whiteley regarding the memoirs is located in Series 3: Memoir Book Production, 1883-1959. Other items of interest in this series includes a letter from Robert Pollack (1918) that includes a Smileage Book (movie coupons from the Military Entertainment Service), a New York City subway ticket, and caricatures drawn by Wilna Hervey, illustrated letters by cartoonist John Striebel, and occasional snapshots of artists and friends. Correspondence to Dan Mason from Hervey and Nan Mason has been separated and is filed with the other personal files of Dan Mason in Series 6, 1919-1928.
This series also includes correspondence that was neither written by Hervey or Mason, nor sent to them. It may be that the letters were sent to Hervey and Mason as enclosures in other correspondence. Such correspondence is arranged at the end of this series as Miscellaneous Collected Correspondence.
See Appendix for list of selected correspondents in Series 2.
Wilna Hervey intended to publish memoirs of her days involved in The Toonerville Trolley films. Included in this series are handwritten memoirs chronicling her years prior to and during the 1920s (many of the handwritten memoirs have been typed by Karin Whiteley and are also located in this series).
This series also includes research materials such as typed synopses of two Toonerville Trolley scripts copied from the files of Fontaine Fox, correspondence with sketches from Fontaine Fox to Dan Mason, "The Little Folks Paper," published in 1891, playbills, writings and notes from unidentified sources, an indenture of deed, a deed of trust by Thomas Vincent Cator, newspaper clippings and advertisements. Within the series is one oversized drawing from an unidentified artist, undated.
The majority of the correspondence is to Hervey from Karin Whiteley (additional correspondence from Karin Whiteley regarding the memoir is located in Series 2: Correspondence, 1890-1985). Correspondence also includes Hervey's contract with The Paul Gerson Pictures Corporation dated 1922, and typed and handwritten writings by Dan Mason.
This series includes three small watercolor sketches by unidentified artist, and a print by Edward Chavez.
Photographs in this series are mostly snapshots of friends and family, life in Woodstock, New York and Anna Maria, Florida. Black and white snapshots contain photos of unidentified costumed people at an outdoor party, Wilna Hervey gardening, Elsie and Eugene Speicher, Charles Rosen, Nan Mason and Wilna Hervey in Italy in 1926, and of a home in a forested setting. Color snapshots are of gardens, beach scenes, and unidentified women. Negatives were originally found in an un-postmarked envelope with a return address labeled "Betzwood Film Co." and include six negatives of people on a boat, including Wilna Hervey and Dan Mason. Twenty-one negatives appear to be from a camera shoot for the Toonerville Trolley films. In several of the negatives Wilna Hervey is dressed as The Powerful Katrinka, and in one negative Dan Mason is The Skipper.
The personal files of Dan Mason include correspondence to Mason, Mason's own handwritten and typed memoirs, newspaper clippings, and financial records mostly related to the death of his wife, Millicent Mason in 1919. The bulk of the correspondence is written by Wilna Hervey and Nan Mason, and chronicles their trip to Europe and North Africa in 1926-1927, as well as their close relationship with Dan Mason. Correspondence also includes a few family snapshots.
The papers of curator and art historian Julia P. Herzberg measure 8.4 linear feet and 18.4 Gigabytes and date from 1977-2018. Included are Herzberg's files on exhibitions and artists containing correspondence, printed material, interview transcripts, and notes and drafts by Herzberg. Artists include Wilfredo Lam, Doris Salcedo, Ana Mendieta, Catalina Parra, and Jorge Tacla among others.
Materials in this collection document Herzberg's career as a curator, art historian, and editor, and consist of Herzberg's curatorial and project files related to artists, exhibitions, writing, and other professional projects. Included are draft lectures, essays, and articles; bibliographies; clippings; exhibition catalogs, announcements, flyers, and posters; correspondence with artists and curators; notes; clippings; pamphlets; artist biographies and CVs; exhibition planning documents including proposals, wall texts, working checklists, and diagrams; interview transcripts; photographs, slides, and negatives; and press releases. Some of Herzberg's files, including photographs and writings, are in born-digital format.
Writing projects reflect the various types of curatorial and editorial writing Herzberg produced including reviews, articles, lectures, talks, panel discussions and essays. Materials include draft lectures, essays, and articles; notes; reviews; exhibition catalogs; photographic material; and correspondence, some in digital formats. Herzberg wrote numerous articles and catalog essays throughout her long career, and sat on panels and gave lectures related to Latin American contemporary art and artists. Projects of note include her work as an essayist for Pacific Standard Time: LA/LA and the Times Square Alliance.
The bulk of the collection, artist files document Herzberg's work with artists through interview transcripts; correspondence; clippings; notes; exhibition catalogs, announcements, and working checklists; draft essays; articles; photographs, slides, and negatives depicting works of art; press releases; artist biographies and CVs. This material often reflects Herzberg's close relationships with artists through numerous curatorial projects found in the artist files. Of note are an interview with Carmen Herrera, an illustrated letter from Luis Benedict, and a holiday card from Ernest Pujol. Some of the materials are in digital formats.
Exhibition files document Herzberg's curatorial work from the 1980s through the 2010s. Materials include photographs, slides, and negatives depicting exhibition openings, installations, and works of art; working checklists; floor plans; correspondence; press releases; bibliographies; clippings; reviews; draft essays and articles; research notes; printouts; wall text; proposals; and agreements. Exhibitions of note include the 8th, 9th, 10th, and 11th Havana Biennials; "The Decade Show: Frameworks of Identity in the 1980s;" and "Chilean Women Artists, Feminism and Dissidence." Some of the materials are in digital formats.
Professional files document Herzberg's participation on various committees for the Bronx Museum of Art, including the Galeria Balmaceda 1215 Curatorial Committee. Materials include correspondence; minutes; proposals; press releases; exhibition checklists, announcements, and invitations; draft lectures; artist statements; and clippings. Also included are a detailed inventory of Herzberg's files and construction agreement copies from her Manhattan office.
The scattered papers of miniature portrait painter Magda Heuermann measure 0.4 linear feet and date from 1876 to 1982. Found are biographical materials, correspondence, photographs, printed material, a scrapbook, and writings. Also found is a diary kept by Heuermann's father Henry William Heuermann.
Biographical materials include an award ribbon from an exposition of women's artwork in New Orleans in 1885; biographical sketches; lists of artwork; and lists of members of the Chicago Society of Artists. Corresponence is scattered and includes a letter of compliments from Count von Bernsdorff and letters from the Illinois Institute of Technology referring to Heuermann's donation of miniatures in 1950. Photographs depict Heuermann and include portraits and photos of Heuermann with her art. Also found is an inventory with photographs of artworks held by Heuermann's family after her death. Printed materials include clippings, exhibition announcements, and reproductions of works of art. Also found is an issue of The Sketchbook from 1907. Writings and notes are largely by Heuermann and concern painting and the work of creating miniature portraits. Also found is a note by Eleanor Jewitt.
A mixed media scrapbook concerns Magda Heuermann and her father, Henry William Heuermann who was a chemist and apothecary. The scrapbook includes biographical material, correspondence, photographs, and printed material. Also found is a diary kept by Henry William Heuermann while he served as chaperone for Magda while she was studying in Germany.
The papers of landscape painter Aldro T. Hibbard measure 1.7 linear feet and date from 1914 to 1971. The papers document his career as a painter through correspondence; diaries, notes and other writings; awards, discussions, and other professional activity files; clippings, exhibition catalogs, and other printed material; and personal sound recordings.
Correspondence includes letters to his wife, Winifred, fan letters, and letters to friends and art organizations. Writings include notes, a notebook, a diary of his travels through Europe in 1914, and a diary from 1962. Professional material includes awards, an audio reel lecture delivered to the Rockport Art Association, one motion picture film, photographs of Hibbard and his students, and a biographical statement. Printed material includes newspaper clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and material related to the Hibbard School of Painting. Sound Recordings consist of 17 wire recordings. The recordings are mostly unlabeled and primarily personal in nature, but some contain lectures and sales records.
Correspondence includes letters to his wife, Winifred, fan letters, and letters to friends and art organizations.
Writings include notes, a notebook, a diary of Hibbard's travels through Europe in 1914, and a diary from 1962.
Professional material includes awards, an audio reel lecture delivered to the Rockport Art Association, one motion picture film, photographs of Hibbard and his students, and a biographical statement.
Footage of a man and woman on a balcony, dark exposure of a man, a man, and a chimpanzee.
Printed material includes newspaper clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and material related to the Hibbard School of Painting.
Sound Recordings consist of 17 wired recordings. The recordings are mostly unlabeled and primarily personal in nature containing family gatherings and baseball games, but some contain lectures and sales records.
Letters received from the Pepsi Cola Company regarding an advertising gimmick by Hickman; a letter from Eleanor Freed; clippings; 2 books of printed commercial illustrations; 3 illustrated journals; a notebook of photographs of Hickman, Hickman's work, clippings, and letters; photographs of Hickman and his work; and ca. 200 sketches.
Three lectures, a panel discussion and an interview on six DVDs with fiber artists Lillian Elliott and Joanne Segal Brandford compiled by colleague and friend, Patricia Hickman. Included are three lectures conducted at the University of Hawaii, Honolulu, two by Lillian Elliott and one by Joann Segal Brandford, 1991-1993; a panel discussion including Lillian Elliott entitled, "The Walls Come Down: The Crafting of America," 1993, University of Hawaii, Honolulu; and a two part interview of Joanne Segal Brandford conducted by Lillian Elliott and recorded by Paul Brandford, 1993. Also included is documentation detailing the contents of each recording contained on a flash drive.
Resumes, a bibliography; legal documents including a lease, a voter registration card and a file on a lawsuit Higgins was involved in; correspondence, 1912-1975, with Robert Macbeth and Inslee Hopper; financial records; clippings and articles about Higgins; exhibition announcements and catalogs; loan agreements for an exhibition of Higgins' work at the Indianapolis Museum of Art, 1976; photographs, including two pages from an album, mostly of Higgins and family members; and reproductions of Higgins' paintings.
Sketches in pencil, ink, and watercolor, of woodland scenes and landscapes in New Hampshire, California, Oregon and Washington; studies of villages and activities of the Pueblo Indians in New Mexico; scenes of Italy, Switzerland, and England; and studies of animals.
Scrapbook, 1857-1921 containing clippings about Hill, her paintings, her family and others; poetry; funeral notices; receipts for payment at the Academie Julian, 1889 and 1895; 2 photographs of Hill's home; and miscellany.
Selected records from the Historical Society of Pennsylvania's Centennial Collection, assembled by HSP from various collections. Included are files from the Centennial Bureaus of Administration on the Art Department and Foreign Exhibitors, including information on the system of classification, bureau of awards, selection of judges, duties of and information for judges, news releases, and invitations to ceremonies, receptions and meetings; the Centennial Historical Department Receipt book containing stubs for the historical portraits exhibited, including the work of Titian Ramsey Peale, Thomas Lawrence, and John Trumbull; photographs of the architectural plans submitted in the building competition; and steroptican views of exhibits in Memorial Hall and sculpture.
An invitation to William Meredith for the eighth annual exhibition of the Artists' Fund Society "Private View," Apr. 3, 1843; circular letters, Mar. 13, 1834 and Oct. 1834, concerning the finances of the Pennsylvania Academy and the durability of the members. The first letter is signed by Joseph Hopkinson and the second by William Strickland, Henry Inman, Charles Graff, Cephas G. Childs, J. K. Kane, and Nathan Dunn. Also, correspondence between David Hosack and William Meredith, Jan. 12 and 18, 1817, about Thomas Sully's portrait of Gouverneur Morris; and a letter to Nicholas Biddle from Rembrandt Peale, concerning a portrait of Mr. Dennie and a copy for Biddle, with a note by Biddle at the bottom of the page.
A photo of Hliddal, 1953, for NYU; a photo of her with Michael Lantz and Paul Jennewein, sculptors; a photo of her with Marian Anderson, 1965, and one of Hliddal with Quattrochi; and a clipping and a press release about Hliddal's appointment to direct NYU's Hall of Fame for Geat Americans, Dec. 1956. Also included is a color snapshot of Hliddal's studio, 1976.
Scrapbooks containing correspondence, biographical material, exhibition catalogs and teaching notes and clippings.
Correspondence, undated and 1947-1985, regarding sculpture commissions, sales, and expenses. Among the correspondents are Edmond Amateis, Edward Grove, Anna Hyatt Huntington, William Thorn Kissel, Jr., and John Paul Manship. Also included is a typescript of an article by Hoffman, "Traditional Sculpture: Timeless Imprints," 1980; his notes; list of his works which was prepared for the INVENTORY OF ART IN PUBLIC PLACES IN THE UNITED STATES; exhibition catalogs, 1963-1984; printed materials; and 6 photographs sent as enclosures.
431 photographs of Irwin, family members and works of art; 5 sketchbooks and 4 loose sketches, undated; an undated diary containing brief entries; exhibition catalogs and announcements, 1927-1981; clippings, undated and 1924-1984; a book IRWIN D. HOFFMAN published by American Artists Group, 1936; and a file on Hebrew University, Jerusalem, 1922-1985, containing material regarding the dedication of the Music Hall to Irwin's mother, portraits by Hoffman of people associated with the University, and other events.
Hans Hofmann tells Amy Spingarn how much he admires her work.
A panel discussion, "The Artist's Inner Vision," moderated by Alvin C. Hollingsworth on 1970 Nov. 21. Panelists included Romare Bearden, Reginald Gammon, Max Ginsburg, and Alfonso Ossorio.
Correspondence, 1969-1975; diary written in Russian, 1966-1976; photographs of Hollerbach, and his art work; three sketchbooks, 1971-1975; exhibition catalogs; and clippings. Among the correspondents are Aleksis Rannit, Ralph Fabri, and Fritz Eichenberg.
Letters, writings, a scrapbook, printed material, and files on printmakers documenting Holman's career as a Boston print dealer at Goodspeed's Book Shop and the Holman Print Shop.
Included are correspondence with customers, publishers, family, museums, galleries, and others concerning Holman's business and expertise in the field of prints, ca. 1890-1941; a typescript "What Does a Print Seller Look for in a Print?"; a scrapbook of clippings about the Holman Print Shop, 1931-1937; clippings; advertisements; and exhibition announcements and catalogs.
Also included are artist/subject files containing letters and printed materials on Joseph Andrews, Timothy Cole, John Sanderson Datziel, Arthur Heintzelman and the book Old Maps and Their Makers. Included in the Andrews file is a ledger book, ca. 1851-1869, with clippings on his "Plymouth Rock." The Cole file has letters from and about Cole, cancelled checks, biographical sketches, notes, lists of works, clippings, reproductions of work, a bookplate designed by Cole, and photographs of Cole.
ADDITION (1.4 linear ft.): Biographical material; memorabilia; diaries, 1925-1938, detailing the running of a print dealership; notes, writings, and lectures; business and financial records, among them guestbooks kept by Holman's Print Shop from its founding until its closing, recording signatures, remarks, and several caricatures from noted artists and collectors; printed material; Richard Holman's research file on John Foster's "A Map of New-England," including correspondence with several noted mid-20th century authorities on American printing and printmaking history, in particular Ray Nash; and photographs.
An interview with Elizabeth Basye Gilmore Holt conducted 1978 by Josephine Withers.
Biographical documents; correspondence; notebooks; artworks; scrapbooks; printed material; and photographs; ca. 600 items, total.
Awards and certificates; an address book kept by Homer's brother, Arthur; a biographical sketch of Homer by his nephew; correspondence, including letters, some illustrated, from Homer to his family and others, describing daily activities, his health, and his work; letters from Potter Palmer, Thomas B. Clarke, and John Beatty, and family correspondence which mentions Homer; 2 notebooks, containing notes and sketches; sketches and cartoons; 18 watercolors of plants, birds, and insects by Homer's mother; scrapbooks, containing photos of Homer, his studio, reproductions, clippings, a script and related material comparing Whistler and Homer for a radio program; catalogs; an album containing 60 annotated reproductions of artwork; printed material; Homer's Civil War pass; a contract between C. Klackner and Homer regarding the sale of etchings; receipts for sales; an inventory of the collection of Mrs. Charles S. Homer, Jr.; photos of Homer family members, Homer, his friends, and their surroundings in Prout's Neck, Me.; and miscellany.
Correspondence and drawings.
REEL 64: Letters to Henry Boehm (architect), from Europe and America recounting travel and other experiences, Hood's work and his studies, mutual friends; and personal matters.
REEL 795: 48 drawings in pencil, charcoal, chalk, ink, or ink wash and 5 photographs of drawings (61.8 x 68 cm., or smaller). Among them are 8 drawings of architecture and the human figure done while Hood was at the Ecole des Beaux Arts, Paris, 1907-1911; 32 of the Chicago Tribune Tower many of which were submitted in competition (including 2 reproductions); and 3 photographs of drawings of the Scottish Rite Masonic Temple in Scranton, Pa. Also included is 1 aquatint (27.8 x 27.8 cm., in mat 46.3 x 44.4 cm.) of the McGraw-Hill building in New York City, signed lower right: D. Douglass.
The Hooks-Epstein Galleries records measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1937 to 1980. This small collection includes an exhibition list, 1970-1978, gallery catalogs, a copy of the gallery policies, and a newspaper article about the business. Exhibition catalogs include shows for J. M. Sorg, Hib Sabin, Peter Paone, Sherry Sullivan, Lee Waisler, and more. Also present is a miscellaneous letter from 1937.
Found here is an exhibition list, 1970-1978, a copy of the gallery policies, gallery catalogs, and a newspaper article about the business. Exhibition catalogs include shows for J. M. Sorg, Hib Sabin, Peter Paone, Sherry Sullivan, Lee Waisler, and Zolita Sverdlove, and Peter Chinni; some price lists are included. Also present is a miscellaneous letter from 1937.
A 2-page typed letter from Robert Henri in Ireland to Horn, 1927, advising him to study with George Luks or John Sloan, commenting on children as painting subjects, reminding him that the "best...designs are extremely simple," and recommending that he read Henri's book, The Art Spirit.
Photographs, clay sketches and clippings, 1929-1966.
Material covering personal and professional lives of the Howards including correspondence, photographs, writings, sketches, business records and miscellaneous printed material.
Gift: Biographical information, photographs of Blanche Howard's sculpture; a manuscript of Blanche Howard's book, DANCE OF THE SELF; a copy of AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF ADELINE KENT; drawings of Blanche Howard's sculpture by Ann H. Berman; printed material including exhibition catalogs, announcements and clippings and miscellany.
Reel 1309, frames 140-285: Materials concerning John Langley Howard's career, including a letter received about his illustrations for SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN and SPORTS ILLUSTRATED, 1942-1974; 2 engravings by him, 1950; 13 cover illustrations by him, 3 prepatory sketches and related material; 2 photographs of him, 1963; 25 photos of his works, a few financial papers. 1 biographical sketch, exhibition catalogs and announcements, clippings and miscellany.
Reel 1309, frames 286-501 Materials relating to Blanche Phillips Howard's career including one letter of introduction by Robert M. Church; 4 photographs of her; one photograph of her and John Langley Howard; 21 photographs of her sculpture; one limited edition publication consisting mainly of photographs of her sculpture; a copy of DANCE OF THE SELF, published in 1974; and 4 clippings.
The records of the Howard Wise Gallery in New York, and its predecessor the Howard Wise Gallery of Present Day Painting and Sculpture in Cleveland, Ohio, measure 11.4 linear feet and date from 1943-1989. Records consist of correspondence, artist files, exhibition files, business records, writings, and video recordings that document the activities of Wise's gallery in Cleveland from 1957-1961 and, to a lesser extent, his gallery in New York City from 1960-1970. Wise's activities following the closing of the Howard Wise Gallery are also found among the correspondence, artist files, business records, writings, and video recordings.
Correspondence documents the operations of Wise's galleries in Cleveland and New York. A few subject files and a small amount of Howard Wise's personal correspondence (some pre-dating and post-dating the galleries) are also included in this series.
Artist files contain varying combinations of correspondence, printed material, notes and writings, and photographs. Most artists represented in this series were affiliated with Howard Wise Gallery either in Cleveland or New York City, but some files are for individuals of potential interest to the gallery, and those of continued interest to Wise after the closing of the gallery. Exhibition files contain correspondence, printed material, guest lists, and notes. Exhibition files are not a comprehensive record of exhibitions held in Wise's galleries.
Business records include records of cash disbursements that are primarily for Howard Wise's travel and entertainment expenses. Business memoranda and correspondence between the Cleveland and New York galleries document sales, inventory, shipments and financial information. Also among the business records are photographs of the Howard Wise Gallery of Present Day Painting and Sculpture in Cleveland, a set of slides of artworks and installation views dating to the late 1950s, and inventories and loan documentation related to Howard Wise's personal art collection. Writings consist of essays and speeches by Howard Wise, writings on Howard Wise and the Howard Wise Gallery artists by Douglas MacAgy and Marita Sturken, and a typescript recollection of a dinner party conversation with Supreme Court Justice Warren Burger from 1973.
Video recordings include 41 videoreels and videocassettes, a log book of video shot by Wise in the early 1970s, and a program for a screening of his videos held in Wellfleet, Mass. Recordings are mainly unedited footage of interviews with artists and community figures, gallery openings, and other community events in Wellfleet, Mass. and the greater Cape Cod region. A log book and detailed labels on videos provide details about their content. Three edited works made by Wise from the raw footage include "video portraits" of Serge Chermayeff, Edwin Dickinson, and Jack Tworkov. Also found is footage from the premiere performance of Jean Dubuffet's Coucou Bazaar at the Guggenheim Museum, and a dinner party attended by Dubuffet. Video of works by other artists include footage from media and kinetic artworks shown in the Howard Wise Gallery from 1964-1967, as well as a video performance by Hannah Wilke from 1974.
Correspondence with collectors, clients, art dealers, museums, arts organizations, and suppliers of goods and services documents the Howard Wise Gallery of Present Day Painting and Sculpture, Cleveland, Ohio, and the Howard Wise Gallery, New York, New York. A few subject files and a small amount of Howard Wise's personal correspondence (some predating the gallery and some dated after the gallery closed) are interfiled with the alphabetical correspondence in 1.1: Correspondence, A-Z. Among these are photocopies and a transcribed typescript of a letter from Wise's father, Samuel D. Wise, conveying property to the Camp Wise Association in 1907.
Abrams, H. N., Incorporated
Abrams, Morris
Academy of Medicine of Cleveland
Adath Jeshurun
Addison Gallery of American Art
Addressograph-Multigraph Corporation
Adler, Arthur M., Jr.
Agris Verlag Krefeld und Baden-Baden
Akron Beacon-Journal
Allan Stone Gallery (see: Stone Gallery, Allan)
Albert R. Lee and Co., Inc. (see: Lee, and Co., Inc., Albert R.)
Alevy and Cantor
Alexander Iolas Gallery (see: Iolas Gallery, Alexander)
Allen Inc., Publishers, Howard
Alpers, Dr. N.
Amel Gallery
American Academy in Rome
American District Telegraph Co.
American Honda
American Iron and Steel Institute
American Mutual Liability Insurance Company
American Republic Insurance Company
A. M. Sachs Gallery (see: Sachs Gallery, A. M.)
Anderson Gallery, David
Andrews Moving and Storage Co.
Angle, Gertrude N.
Ansbacher, Carolyn
Architects Collaborative
Architectural Forum
Arco Company
Art Colony
Art Gallery of Toronto
Arthur Tooth and Sons, Ltd. (see: Tooth and Sons, Ltd., Arthur)
Art Information Service ( see also: Chamberlain, Betty)
Art Institute of Zanesville, Ohio
Artist Tenants Association
Artistes de France Associates Incorporated
Artists Equity Association
Arts Club of Chicago
Art:USA:NOW
Ashbrook, J. B.
Aujourd'hui
Austin, Allan
A. W. Fenton Co., Inc. (see: Fenton Co., Inc., A. W.)
Ayer and Son, Inc., A. W.
Ayers, Kirby
Babcock Gallery
Baekland, Brooks
Baille, Bruce
Baker, Oliver and Sylvia
Baker, Richard Brown
Balaban, M.
Balkwill, S. Ward
Ball State Teachers College
Barker, Walter
Barnard College Club of Cleveland
Barnes, Marion J.
Barone Gallery
Barton, Bruce, Jr.
Bates, Mary Louise
Baum School of the Allentown Art Museum
Baycrafters
Bayer, Eleanor
Baylor University
Beaird, Jane R.
Bedi-Rassy Art Foundry
Bell, J.
Beneson, Charles B.
Bennett, Richard M.
Berger, Frank
Bergmann, Robert
Bertha Schaefer Gallery (see: Schaefer Gallery, Bertha)
Bescherner, H.
Bey, Edie
Bianchini Gallery
Biddle, Mary A.
Biehle, Helen C.
Bill, Max
Bing, Louis S.
Birmingham Festival of Arts
Bishop, Robert H.
Blesh, Rudi
B. L. Marble Chair Company (see: Marble Chair Company, B. L.)
B'nai Brith Hillel Foundation of Western Reserve University
Bode, Arnold
Bolles Gallery
Bollinger Transport
Bolton, Frances P.
Bolton, Kenyon C.
Bond, Douglas
Bonfoey Company
Boone, Pat
Borgenicht Gallery, Inc., Grace
Borsick, Helen
Bosse, M. J.
Boston Truck Company
Bourlet and Sons, Ltd., James
Boutourllilne, Serge
Bovasso, Julie
Bowker Company, R. R.
Bragazzi, Olive
Brahan, Diane W.
Brantford Arts Council
Brata Frame Shop
Brazilian Consulate General
Breeze, Marion
Brighten, Jonny
Broadway Maintenance Corp.
Broder, Harry
Bronfman, Anne
Brooklyn Heights Art Show and Sale and Auction ( see: Charity Exhibitions)
Brooklyn Museum
Brooks, David
Brophy, William E.
Brown, Leonard
Brown University
Brownheim, Mary and L. M.
Bruce, Alice
Buchanan, Harvey
Buckwalter, Charles
Budworth and Son, Inc., W. S.
Bulger, E.
Bundy Art Gallery (see: Carpenter, Harlow)
Burden, William A. M.
Burkhardt, Rudy
Burnham, J. S.
Bury, Pol
Butler Institute of American Art 
Cage, John
Cain, Edward R.
Calray Sales and Service Inc.
Cambridge Camera Exchange
Camp Wildwood (see also: Wildwood, Camp)
Canton Art Institute
Cardona, Rudi and Electra
Carmel Gallery, Hilda
Casa la Rosa
Catholic Student Center of Minnesota
Cauduro, Ed
CBS News
Chakin, Nathan
Chamberlain, Betty ( see also: Art Information Service)
Chase Manhattan Bank
Chemists' Club
Ching, William
Chrysler, Walter P., Jr.
Cimaise
Cinema 16
Citron, Kasper H.
City Art Museum of St. Louis
City of New York
Clague, John
Clare College
Clark, Harold T.
Clayburgh, A. M.
Clert, Iris
Cleveland Clinic Foundation
Cleveland Convention and Visitors Bureau, Inc.
Cleveland Council on World Affairs
Cleveland Institute of Art
Cleveland Museum of Natural History
Cleveland News
Cleveland Paint Varnish and Lacquer Association
Cleveland Press
Coe, Ralph M.
Cohen, Barbara Joseloff
Cohen, Bess J.
Cohen, Ira
Cohen, John H.
Cohen, Joseph H.
Cole, Timothy
Collegiate School
Colorado Springs Fine Arts Center
Columbia Museum of Art
Comité des arts du congrés pur la liberté de la culture
Conde, John P.
Container Corporation of America
Contemporaries Gallery
Contemporary Furniture Showrooms, Inc.
Continental Bank
Cook, Mrs. John
Cooper, Mr.
Cooper, Mrs. Henry C.
Corcoran, Arthur
Cordier and Ekstrom, Inc.
CORE
Cornell University
Corporate Publications, Inc.
Corrigan, Robert
Council for the Retarded Child
Cowan, Robert D.
Cowie Galleries
Cowles, John, Jr.
Archibald Cox
Cramer, Red and Beth
Cramer, Worth C.
Cranbrook Academy of Art
Credit Bureau of Greater New York, Inc.
Crehan, Hubert
Crespi, H.
Cross, Christopher
Crown, Peter
Crown Publishers, Inc.
Cummings, Willard
Danes, Gibson A.
D'Arcy Advertising Agency
D'Arcy Galleries
Davenport, Leroy
David Anderson Gallery (see: Anderson Gallery, David)
Davidson, Barbara
Davis, Abram D.
Day, Lucien
Day Nursery Association of Cleveland
deAenllie Gallery, Roland
Deitsch, Peter H.
Delgado Museum of Fine Arts
Dempsey, Jeanette
Denny, Joann
De Sauzé, Emile B.
Des Moines Art Center
Design Research
Detroit Institute of Arts
Dewey, Joseph
Diamond, Harold
Dickens,Charles
Dietz, David
Dilexi Gallery
Dill, Bayard
Dorfman, Ralph
Douglass College
Dowling, Robert W.
Downey, Morton
Downtown Gallery
Duncan, Alexander D.
Duschnes, Philip G.
Dykes, Victor
Eason, Winston
Eden, Paul L.
Editions de la Connaissance
?ditions M. Lacouriere
Edmunds Scientific Co.
Educational Alliance
Efron, George
Eiseman, Helen
Eiseman, Philip
Eliot, Elizabeth
Elliott, Stanley B.
Emerman, Bernard
Emerson Public Schools
England, Dan
Ernest Wittenberg Public Relations (see: Wittenberg, Ernest, Public Relations)
ESSO Research and Engineering Company
Esther Robles Gallery (see: Robles Gallery, Esther)
Evansville Museum of Arts and Science
Eyles, Sybil
Facchetti, Paul
Fahnestock, Samuel L.
Fairleigh Dickinson University
Fairweather-Hardin Gallery
FAR Gallery
Feigen, Richard L.
Ferus Gallery
Fike, C. A.
Finch College Museum
Fine Arts Associates
Fine, Jacob
FIT Alumni Association (see: Charity Exhibitions)
Fitch, George H.
Flannigan, Dennis
Flesheim, S. W.
Flint Institute of Arts
Foshee, Rufus
Four Seasons
Fox, Claire
Freeman, Stanley
French, Winsor
Fried Gallery, Rose
Friedman, Frances R.
Frumkin, Allen
Fuldheim, Dorothy
Gabriel, Robert
Galerie Arnaud
Galerie Claude Bernard
Galerie d'Art Moderne
Galerie D. Benador
Galerie de France
Galerie im Griechenbeisl
Galerie Springer Berlin
Galerie Stadler
Galleria Nazionale d'Arte Moderna
Gallery Conquistador
Gallery Moos
Gallery One
Gallery Passport, Ltd.
Gandola, Paul
Gans, David M.
Garfinkel, Stanley
Geigy Chemical Corporation
Geller, Abraham W.
General Fireproofing Company
Gerlach, Rose D.
Gerson, Otto, Gallery
Gibbs, David
Gifford, Sanford
Gilford Leather Co.
Gimpel Fils, Ltd.
Gingrich, Arnold
Glickman, Charles
Goeritz, Mathias
Golodowsky, Noah
Gonzales, Boyer
Goodman, N. N.
Goodman, Percival
Goodman, Robert B.
Goodrich Industrial Products
Goodsell, C. H.
Gotham Gallery
Grace Borgenicht Gallery, Inc. (see: Borgenicht Gallery, Inc., Grace)
Graff, Robert D.
Graham Gallery
Green, Mrs. Charles (Peggy)
Green, Edward J.
Greenstein, A. M.
Gres Gallery
Gries, Robert Hays
Griesinger, Frank
Gropius, Walter
Grossman, Ethel
Grossman, Marc J.
Grove Press
Grund, David
Gruzen, B. Sumner
Guggenheim Foundation
Guillermin and Mollet
Gump's
Gutman, Walter
Haas, Albert
Hagen, Yvonne
Hahn Bros. Fireproof Warehouses, Inc.
Hall, John H.
Halle Brothers
Halle, Hortense
Halle, Kay
Halley, Donald M.
Hallmark Art Awards
Hammarstrum, Marianne
Hamon, Jake L. and Nancy B.
Hancy, Lawrence
Hannibal, J.
Harper's Bazaar
Harris, Alfred W,
Harrison and Abramowit
Haskins, Lester
Hathaway Brown School
Haupt, Ira
Hawken School
Hawkins, Erick
Hayward, Elizabeth
Hayter, S.W.
Hazen, Joseph H.
Hecht, Sidney A.
Heller, Ben
Hempel, Gardiner
Henderson, Priscilla A. B.
Herbert, David
Herron Art Institute, John
Hilda Carmel Gallery (see: Carmel Gallery, Hilda)
Hillman, Kay Merrill
Hiser, Mrs. Harold R., Jr.
H. N. Abrams, Incorporated (see: Abrams Incorporated, H. N.)
Hoffman, Junius
Hollis, H. C.
Holzheimers' Interiors
Hooker, Mrs. R. W.
Hoover Company
Horan, Frank J.
Horung, Robert
Horton, John
House and Garden
Howard, Alice
Hrabick, William J.
Hurd, K. F.
IBM Proposal
Igell, Herman
Illinois Wesleyan University
Institute of Contemporary Arts, London
International Directory of Arts
Iolas Gallery, Alexander
Irwin, Spencer D.
Isaacs Gallery
Isaacs, Reginald R.
Isserman, Ferdinand M.
It Is
Jackson Gallery, Martha
James Bourlet and Sons, Ltd. (see: Bourlet and Sons, Ltd., James)
James Gallery
James, Wanda
Janis, Sidney, Gallery
Janss, Edwin
Jayfro
Jerrold Morris International Gallery Limited (see: Morris International Gallery Limited, Jerrold)
John and Mabel Ringling Museum of Art (see: Ringling Museum of Art, John and Mabel)
John Herron Art Institute (see: Herron Art Institute, John)
Johns-Manvillle
Johnson, Margarita
Johnson, Philip C.
Johnson, Theodate
Joseph, Frank E.
Joslyn Art Museum
Kane, Michael
Kareka, R. C.
Katan, Maurits
Kelleher, Joe
Kelsey, Sam
Kennedy, Jacqueline
Kenneth Lynch and Sons (see: Lynch and Sons, Kenneth)
Kent School
Ketterer, Roman Norbert
Kiefer, Anna A.
Kinney, Anna
Kirstein, Lincoln
KLH Research
Knox, Seymour H.
Kootz, Samuel
Kornbluh, Edward C.
Krakower, Arnold
Kramer, Hilton
Krannert Art Museum ( see: University of Illinois)
Kronick, William
Krotinger, Myron N.
Kryl, Bohumir
Kulicke Frames, Inc.
Kunstsammlung Nordhein-Westfalen
KYW Radio
KYW Television
Lakewood Art League
Lambert, J. O.
Landor, Walter and Associates
Lang, Fran and H. Jack
Lannan Foundation
Lannan, J. Patrick
Lansing, Charles B.
Laurel School
Laurence, Dean
Lazar, Albert
Lebron, James J.
Lee and Co., Inc., Albert R.
Lefebre Gallery
Legros, M. J.
Leighton, Kaye
Lemmon, Cyril W.
Lerner Publications
Lescaze, William
Levin, Jeanne
Lewis, C. McKenzie
Lidgerwood, William V.
Life Magazine
Lipinsky, Lino S.
List, Mrs. Albert
Litchfield, Dorothy Hale
Little Red School House ( see: Charity Exhibitions)
Littlefield, William H.
Living Theatre
Lloyd, Mrs. H. Gates
Loesser, Mrs. Arthur
l'Oeuvre Gravée
Long Beach Island Art Foundation
Lord, John
Love, Ruth Winfield
Lucas, John and Sikie
Lye, Ann
Lynch, Kenneth and Sons
MacDowell Colony
Macomber, Connie and Pete
Madison, Geraldine
Magriel, Paul
Majewski, Marek
Mandel, Samuel
Mannes, L.
Marble Chair Company, B. L.
Maremont, Arnold H.
Maringer, Carol
Marsh and McLennan
Marshall, Marvin V.
Martha Jackson Gallery (see: Jackson Gallery, Martha)
Martin Widdifield Gallery (see: Widdifield Gallery, Martin)
Marx, Hilda
Massie, Edward
Massilon Museum
Mattos, Astres
Mayer Gallery
Mayo Hill Colony Club
Mayse, Purney
McBride, Mrs. Malcolm L.
McClellan, H. Chad
McDonald, Dorcas
McGee, Winston
McGinnis, Mrs. Patrick
McLaughlin, Charles E.
Mead Corporation
Mechanical Engineering
Medusa, La
Melamed, A.
Mellon, Gertrude A.
Merrill, Turben and Company, Inc.
Metro
Metropolitan Museum of Art
Meyer, Carl
Meyer, Carl F. G., IV
Mezzalama, Francesco
Midwestern University
Minerva Printing Corp.
Minneapolis Institute of Arts
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Co.
Modernage Photographic Services
Moderna Museet
Molnar, Eleanor
Molton Gallery
Montefiore Home
Moore, Dan T.
Moore, George S.
Moore, John M.
Moore, Mrs, Paul
Moreland, C. A.
Morris International Gallery Limited, Jerrold
Morris, Robert and Eleanor
Morris, Mrs. William
Morse, A. Reynolds
Morton, Alastair
Moss, Moe
Motion Picture Association of America, Inc.
Motive Magazine
Mount Sinai Hospital of Cleveland
Mount Union College
Multiplex Display Fixture Co.
Mundane Club
Munro, Eleanor
Murphy, Gerald
Murray Co., George A.
Musée National d'Art Moderne
Museum of Fine Arts, Houston
Myers, Forrest
Nasher, Raymond D.
Nassau, Jason
National Conference of Christians and Jews
National Council of Jewish Women, Inc., North Essex Section ( see: Charity Exhibitions)
National Institute of Arts and Letters
National Jewish Monthly
Nelson Gallery of Art, William R.
Neuberger, Roy
Neuman, Eckhard
Nevelson, Mike
Newark Museum
New Canaan Library Art Committee
Newhouse, Mrs. Samuel I.
Newman, Murie
Newsweek
New York Graphic Society
New York Herald Tribune
New York Public Library
New Yorker
Night in Budapest Committee
Nolan, Mildred
Nordness Gallery
Noyes, Eliot 
N. W. Ayer and Son, Inc. (see: Ayer and Son, Inc., N. W.)
Oakwood Club
Obata, Gyo
Obelisco Gallery, L'
Obelisk Gallery
Ohio Desk Company
Ohio Society of New York
Ohio University
Oliphant, Stephen D.
Olivier, Lawrence
Orleans Gallery
Orswell, Lois
Otto Gerson Gallery, Inc. (see: Gerson Gallery, Otto)
Overton, Douglas
Oxford University Press
Pahlmann, William
Palmer, A.
Panza, Giuseppe
Park Crescent Hotel
Parks, Anita Jackson
Parsons, Betty
Payson, Hal
Penney, Charles
Pennsylvania State University
Peratt, Valentine
Peterson, Thomas F.
Phipps, T. J.
Piccarello, Frank, Jr.
Pictures on Exhibit
Pirandello
Polaroid Corporation
Pollock, Lewis G.
Pollock, Peter
Pond, Pearl Cowles
Poole College
Poole, Lynn
Portable Gallery Color Slides
Posner, Henry, Sr.
Print Club of Cleveland
Print Council of America
Pryun, Mrs. R. L.
Purdue University
Putnam, John B.
PVI Gallery
Pyrotronics
Rapuano, Michael
Ratner, Anne
Rattner, Abraham
Redfern Gallery, Ltd.
Reichel, Miriam Brudno
Reichold, Henry H.
Relph, Grace
Revel Travel Service
Reynolds, R. S., Jr.
Richards, Meryl
Richelle Gallery
Rillison, Mrs. Lawrence
Rindler, L. A.
Ringling Museum of Art, John and Mabel
Roanoke Fine Arts Center
Robertson, Bryan
Robles Gallery, Esther
Robson, Elizabeth Stone
Rockefeller
Rockefeller, David
Rockefeller Institute
Rockefeller, Nelson A.
Rodriguez, Marcial
Roland deAenllie Gallery (see: deAenllie Gallery, Roland)
Rome-New York Art Foundation, Inc.
Rose Fried Gallery (see: Fried Gallery, Rose)
Rosen, Israel
Rosenberg, Mrs. Edwin
Rosenthal, Arthur J.
Rothstsein, Anna
Rowfant Club
R. Scherer, Inc. (see: Scherer Inc., R.)
Rubin, William S.
Rubinfield, Donald
Russell, Alfred
Rutgers University
Sachs Gallery, A. M.
Saidenberg, Eleanor
Saint Mary's College
St. Moritz Hotel
Salant, Mrs. Walter
Salon de Mai
Salt Lake City Public Library
Saltonstall, Nathaniel
Sampliner, Mrs. Paul
Sanborn, William E.
Sandbert, W.
Santa Barbara Museum of Art
Sarnoff, Robert
Saturday Review
Scaife, Richard M.
Schaefer Gallery, Bertha
Scherer Inc., R.
Schermerhorn Gallery
Schloss, Charles M.
Schmalenbach, Werner
Schmeller, Alfred 
Schmitt, Dorothy
Schofield, Barbara
School Art League
Schreiber, Taft B.
Schultz, Olga
Schultz Roofing, P. W.
Schwartz, Charles
Scientific American
Seattle Post Intelligencer
Segal, Walter
Seglen, Philip M.
Segrestan, Mrs. Jacque
Segy Gallery
Seiberling, J. Fred
Selby, Lynn
Selden, George
Seuphon, Michel
Seymour, William and Florence
Shaker Heights City School District
Shaker Square Travel Service
Sheldon, Albert M.
Shestack, M. M.
Short Run Color Corporation
Show Magazine
Sidney Janis Gallery (see: Janis Gallery, Sidney)
Siff, Aida d'Agostino
Singer, Mrs. Albert 
Singer Company
Skidmore College
Skidmore, Owings and Merrill
Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture
Sloan Gallery of American Painting
Sloss, Lily
Smith, C. Lee, Jr.
Smith, D. C.
Smith, Frank F.
Smith, Ray
Smoluchowski, Roman
Society for the Advancement of Judaism
Society of Gourmets for the Leisure Arts, Inc.
Solinger, David M. and Hope
Soltz, Al
Southern Illinois University
Special Surveys
Sperling, Mrs. Milton
Sperry, Victoria
Speyer, Darthea
Spock, Benjamin
Springger-Penquin Company
Sprinzen, Harold
Stable Gallery
Staempfeli Gallery, Inc.
Stamford Jewish Center
State Teachers College (Slippery Rock, Pa.)
State University College (Fredonia, N. Y.)
State University of Iowa
Staten Island Institute of Arts and Sciences
Stedelijk van Abbemuseum Eindhoven
Stein, Ronald
Steinberg, Saul
Stewart, Sam E.
Stillman, Rufus C.
Stockton, Robert S. and Ann
Stone Gallery, Allan
Stone, David C.
Stone, Morton J.
Stowe Area Association, Inc.
Strauss, Marion
Streitmann, A. P.
Stroup, Beatrice Moore
Strub, Henry
Studio Magazine
Suburban Temple Women's Committee
Swarthmore College
Sweeney, James Johnson
Sylvester, Edmund
Syracuse University
Tanager Gallery
Tangerman, R. S.
Tannhauser, Justin
Tate Gallery
Tatelbaum, Harriet
Taylor, Jay
Taylor, Elizabeth
Taylor, William and Jean
Techbuilt, Inc.
Temple
Temple B'nai Sholom ( see: Charity Exhibitions)
Temple Emanuel
Ten Thirty Gallery
Tenenbaum, Frieda
Thibaut Gallery
Tiffany and Co.
Tile Classics
Tishman, Robert V.
Titelman, Mrs. Frank M.
Toledo Museum of Art
Tooth and Sons, Ltd., Arthur
Tower Fellowship
Tower Press
Tremco Manufacturing Company
Trenton State College
Trigg, Ernest T.
True Magazine
Tudor, Charles
Tudor Publishing Co.
Turn Toward Peace ( see: Charity Exhibitions)
Tuttie, Irwin and Nancy
Twentieth Century Gallery
Tyson Operating Company, Inc.
Ullman, A. James
UNICEF
Uniontown Friends of Art Committee
United Air Lines
United Appeal of Greater Cleveland
United Jewish Appeal of Greater New York
United Palestine Appeal
United States Customs
United States Department of Commerce
United States Information Agency
United States Post Office
United States Steel Corporation
University of Alabama
University of Illinois
University of Maryland
University of Massachusetts
University of Michigan
University of Minnesota
University of Pennsylvania
University of Pittsburgh
University of St. Thomas
University of Southern Illinois
University of Washington
University School Alumni Association
Vaiksnoras, Anthony J.
Van der Beek, Stan
Van der Marck, Jan H.
Van Dyke, J. Brooks
Vanik, Charles A.
Venice Bienale
Verlag M. Dumont Schauberg
Village Voice
Viviano, Catherine
Vocational Guidance and Rehabilitation Services
Vogel, Amos
Waddington Galleries
Wade, Jeptha H.
Wake Forest College
Walden School
Waldhorns Interiors
Waldorf, Dorothy Densmore
Walkup, Park E.
Wallace, Sylvia C.
Walling, Hayden
Walter Landor and Associates (see: Landor and Associates, Walter)
Ware, Paul and Betty
Warwick and Legler, Inc. Advertising
Wayne, June
WDOK Radio
Wise, Samuel D.
Webb Chapter No. 14, Royal Arch Masons
Weber, John
Weese, Harry
Weidler, Charlotte
Weidlinger, Madeleine
Weil, Freddie and Ann
Weil, Eilene
Weil, Helen L.
Weil, R. K.
Weil, Walter
Weill, Guy and Lucy
Weis, David and Jeanette
Weisman, Fred
Wellesley College
Welton, Karlyn
Wengroth, Richard A.
Wenstrup, Margaret
WERE Radio
West Village Committee
Westbury Hotel
Western Adjustment and Inspection Co.
Westlake Plastics Co.
Weston, S. Burns
Westport Community Art Association
Weyhe Gallery
White, John F.
Whitney Museum of American Art
Wick, Kenneth B.
Wickham, Ben
Widdifield Gallery, Martin
Wildenstein Gallery
Wilder, Nicholas
Wildwood, Camp
Wilkinson, Kirk
Willard Gallery
William R. Nelson Gallery of Art (see: Nelson Gallery of Art, William R.)
Williams, Kay
Williams, Oscar
Wilson, Ralph
Winton, D. Mike
Wise, John
Wise, Victor
Wise, Samuel D.
Wittenberg Public Relations, Ernest
Wixom, Nancy
WNET-TV
Woehle, Fritz
Wofford College
Wood, Remsen
Woodward Foundation
Woody, Russell O., Jr.
Woollen, Evans
Worcester Art Museum
Worcester Foundation for Experimental Biology
World House Galleries
WPAT Radio
Wragge, Sydney
Wurtzburger, Alan
Wurzburger, Paul D.
York, Scott R.
Yoseido Gallery
Young, Stephen M.
Zabriskie Gallery
Zadok, Charles
Zanini, Walter
Zegman, Freda
Zero-Max Industries, Incorporated
Zimmerman, Mrs. Isadore J.
This subseries consists of the correspondence of Howard Wise, several gallery employees, and art consultant Douglas MacAgy, and documents the operations and activities of Howard Wise Gallery, New York. A 1970 letter from Wise addressed "to the friends of the gallery" announces the closing of the gallery. A draft of a 1984 letter reflecting on the 1969 exhibition TV as a Creative Medium is also found.
Most artists represented in this series were affiliated with Howard Wise Gallery either in Cleveland or New York City, but some files are for individuals of possible interest to the gallery, or document Wise's continued contact with artists after the Howard Wise Gallery closed. Files contain varying combinations of correspondence, printed material, notes, writings, and photographs.
Exhibition files for shows presented at the Howard Wise Gallery of Present Day Painting and Sculpture, Cleveland, and the Howard Wise Gallery, New York, contain correspondence, printed material and guest lists. The series is not a comprehensive record of exhibitions at the galleries, however; notably, no documentation is found of the New York gallery's opening show.
Missing Title
General Correspondence, 1961-1962
Refusals, 1961-1962
Transportation, 1961-1962
Rose Art Museum, Brandeis University, 1961
Walker Art Center, 1961-1962
Columbus Gallery of Fine Arts, 1961-1962
Arts Club of Chicago, 1961-1962
Kalamazoo Art Center, 1961-1962
Cash disbursements are mainly for Howard Wise's travel and entertainment expenses. Memoranda and correspondence between Cleveland and New York Galleries include debit and credit memoranda and concern sales, inventory, and shipments.
The notebooks (64 small pocket volumes) contain brief notes on paintings, names and addresses, appointments and schedules, reminders, and a few lecture notes. Sales records consist of accounts paid, arranged by purchaser, and copies of sales receipts arranged chronologically. Slides consist of approximately 800 images of artworks and installation views.
A number of records pertain to the management of Howard Wise's personal art collection and date to the period following the closure of the Howard Wise Gallery. Records related to loans document loans of works by George McNeil, including correspondence with McNeil, and Jan Muller.
Missing Title
Abbey, 1963-1968
Alpha, 1960-1965
Art-Cart, 1963-1964
Circle Foto, 1964-1968
Clark, Fred, 1960-1965
Con Edison, 1966-1968
Frank's Hardware, 1965-1969
Ginnever, Chuck, 1960-1963
Holmes Electric Protective Co., 1960-1968
New York Telephone, 1965-1968
Pauley, Hal, 1964-1967
Schlemowitz, Abram, 1961-1963
Thorn's Transfer, 1962
Includes travel itineraries and a certificate from the Union of Concerned Scientists
Writings consist of essays and speeches by Howard Wise, writings on Howard Wise and the Howard Wise Gallery artists by Douglas MacAgy and Marita Sturken, and a typescript recollection of a dinner party conversation with Supreme Court Justice Warren Burger from 1973.
Series contains video footage shot by Howard Wise, mainly of interviews with artists in Wellfleet, Mass. and other Cape Cod locations. Most of the video recordings by Wise contain raw, unedited footage, and individual tapes may contain more than one subject. A video log book containing notes on many of the videos lists additional subjects for each tape, with page numbers corresponding to numbers on tapes. Many tapes also have detailed labels. A few of the interviews seem to have been edited later into a series Wise called "Video Portraits," including intervies with Serge Chermeyeff, Edwin Dickinson, and Jack Tworkov. A printed program for a public screening of these works, called "Video Capers" is found at the beginning of the series. Note that not all of the subjects listed in the program are represented in the extant footage. An interview with Howard Wise is also found. Interviews are on 21 videoreels (1/2") and 4 videocassettes (U-matic)
In addition to interviews, events such as art openings, benefits, gallery tours, local camp activities are documented in the recordings. A dinner party with Jean Dubuffet and Thomas Messer, as well as footage of the premiere performance of Dubuffet's Coucou Bazaar at the Guggenheim Museum, are also found. Recordings of panel discussions held on board an ocean liner, mostly on science subjects, are also found. Events are on 12 videoreels (1/2").
Footage of kinetic, media, and performance artworks includes multiple works from the 1967 Lights in Orbit exhibition and Nam June Paik at Bonino Gallery on 1 videocassette (VHS), multiple Howard Wise Gallery exhibitions from 1964-1965 on two videocassettes (U-matic), including On the Move (1964), Group Zero (1964), Gerald Oster, and Len Lye's Bounding Steel Sculptures (1965). Also found is a video performance by Hannah Wilke labeled "Noh Film" on 1 video reel.
Shown are Cherry Stone and Kendall Galleries.
Premiere performance at the opening of Jean Dubuffet retrospective at the Guggenheim Museum.
The papers of painter, sculptor, caricaturist, and portraitist Isabella Howland measure 1.2 linear feet and date from 1899-1979. Correspondence makes up about a third of the collection, with the remainder comprised of biographical material, writings, printed material, photographs, and artworks.
Correspondence is found between Isabella Howland and other artists or dealers. Among these are Eugenie Gershoy, Henry Strater, Edith Halpert, Peggy Bacon, Forbes Watson, Jerry Bywaters, Adolph Dehn and Dorothea Greenbaum. Letters from Juliana Force, the first director of the Whitney Museum of American Art, are present. Many invitations to exhibit are included. The collection includes a small number of letters with Howland's family. She maintained written communication with several individuals over decades.
The biographical material contains Isabella Howland's handwritten notes and typed documents about her life. Some legal documents and financial records are present. The writing series includes her story 'Willy Nilly' with accompanying illustrations of animals, in addition to some other writings. The artwork series includes sketches and sketchbooks from childhood into adulthood. Photographs include images of Howland as well as her paintings and portraits.
Biographical material includes childhood memorabilia and financial records. Legal documents include dissolving of a partnership between Howland and her then-husband (Armando Zegri) from their partner for the business Café Latino. Another letter from an attorney discusses Howland's divorce from Zegri. One address book is present.
Correspondence makes up about one third of the collection. Howland corresponded with friends and colleagues over many decades. There are letters or postcards from various people, including Eugenie Gershoy, Henry Strater, Edith Halpert, Peggy Bacon, Forbes Watson, Jerry Bywaters, Adolph Dehn, Yasuo Kuniyoshi, and Dorothea Greenbaum. Also present are a few letters regarding her work in the Treasury Department's Public Works of Art Project and the Works Progress Administration. Many letters are from museums, galleries, or organizations inviting her to participate in exhibits or thanking her for taking part. Other letters document sales of artworks.
Writings include handwritten and typed autobiographical materials. There are some notes related to her art career. Howland wrote a story called 'Willy Nilly,' and the records contain handwritten and typed copies as well as illustrations. Also included are some poems and one translation by the artist from the Book of Proverbs. A photocopy of a guestbook from Café Latino and some unidentified writings complete the series.
Printed material includes a set of 33 Christmas cards Howland designed. Exhibition pamphlets involve Howland and other artists. Many clippings from newspapers including photos of artists, politicians, and Howland sculptures.
Photographs depict Howland and her works. Also included are photos by Eugenie Gershoy of works by Howland. Portraits of the artist and member of the Lost Generation Henry Strater are present.
Oversized material housed in OV 2.
Artwork makes up a significant portion of the collection. Many sketchbooks from Howland's childhood, sketches from a trip to Jamaica (probably), and other loose sketches. Also found are figure studies, ink drawings, landscapes, two watercolors with tropical iconography (probably Jamaica), and two sketches from 1914 with war theme.
Three painting diaries, listing 684 paintings, 1891-1935. Each entry includes the size, title, a brief description, and the disposition. Grouped in years, sometimes gives month. In addition, there is a poem.
Records of the Hudson River Museum (Yonkers Museum of Science and Arts) and the Yonkers Art Association, 1915-1945, including minutes of meetings, exhibition catalogs, two scrapbooks, and miscellaneous papers.
The William Hughes papers regarding William Harnett measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1887-1926. Included is professional correspondence between Hughes and others regarding works of art by painter William Harnett. Also included are photographs of works of art.
Included are 13 letters, several illustrated, from Wood to Hugh Huglin, 1972-1998, many regarding Wood's request of Huglin to find an attorney who could free her of a conservator who had restricted her activities to her great distress. Also included are five color photocopies of illustrated cards, a color photograph of Wood taken by Huglin, and the text of Huglin's tribute to Wood at her 100th birthday party.
A biographical sketch, 43 photographs of his works, and printed matter.
Memoirs (2 v.); 2 scrapbooks, containing early drawings, letters, cards designed by Hutchinson, articles, catalogs, photographs, and writings; two letters from the Fine Arts Gallery, San Diego, April 1929 outlining the invitation to exhibit in the San Francisco Exposition of 1939; photographs of watercolors and wood constructions; exhibition catalogs; and clippings.
A letter to "My dear friend and pupil," January 25, 1841, telling of the death of his father-in-law. Inman tells his pupil he will not be able to give his usual lesson due to the funeral, and gives an at-home assignment instead.
Panel discussions "American Painting and Sculpture" and "American Contemporary Architecture" sponsored by the International Association of Art Critics at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. Panel members are Aleksa Celebonovic, Stuart Davis, Lloyd Goodrich, Adolph Gottlieb, Jacques Guiton, Philip Cortelyou Johnson, William Henry Jordy, Isamu Noguchi, Theodore Roszak, Gert Schiff, and James Johnson Sweeney.
Footage of plaster model for statue, standing figure, somewhat larger than life, in Brcin's studio in Chicago, from various angles and in different lights. Brcin working on clay details. Casters applying mold; removing mold in sections. Breaking up mold, revealing finished plaster cast, particularly the head.
The Irving Blum Gallery and Ferus Gallery announcements consist of 32 announcements for exhibitions at the Los Angeles Ferus Gallery (1957-1966) and its successor the Irving Blum Gallery (1966-circa 1972). Exhibition announcements are for many exhibitions of southern California contemporary and pop artists, as well as New York artists. Artists represented by announcements include John Altoon, Don Bachardy, Larry Bell, Billy Al Bengston, Robert Irwin, Jasper Johns, Donald Judd, Craig Kauffman, Roy Lichtenstein, Edward Moses, Kenneth Noland, Ad Reinhardt, Ed Ruscha, Frank Stella, and Andy Warhol, among others.
Although these announcements are scattered, they provide insight to and documentation of the southern California LA art scene and the Beat era. The exhibition announcements themselves are quite unique.
Exhibition announcements for Ferus Gallery arranged in chronological order. Exhibition announcements for Ferus Gallery arranged in chronological order.
Exhibition announcements for the Irving Blum Gallery arranged in chronological order.
Biographical material, reminiscences, art works, scrapbooks about Alexandre Iacovleff and Ivanov-Rinov's career, and a photograph album document his Russian childhood, painting, and set design.
Biographical material consists of a biographical sketch and an obituary (1966). In a 1935 manuscript, Ivanov-Rinov reminisces about his boyhood in Russia. Art works consist of 16 sketchbooks (1941-1968), over 300 sketches including set designs, and 2 etching plates. Some sketches are in watercolor, gouache and oil. A scrapbook about Alexandre Iacovleff contains photographs of Iacovleff and his work, reproductions of his work, an exhibition catalog, and 5 drawings by Bill Barss. A photograph album contains photographs of Ivanov-Rinov, his family, friends, and views from his travels within the United States (ca. 1920s).
Four scrapbooks (1902-1974) contain a passport (1921), certificates (1922-1932, 1938), 10 drawings by Ivanov-Rinov including a portrait of Joshua Logan (1931) and 4 set designs for the St. Louis Community Playhouse, 6 drawings by Bill James including a watercolor portrait of Ivanov-Rinov (1941), 5 letters from Alexander James (1937-1940), clippings (1932-1968), exhibition catalogs (1941-1957), and photographs of Ivanov-Rinov, his family in Russia, China, and the United States, friends, his studio, art works, and exhibitions. One group photograph shows the University Players including Henry Fonda and Joshua Logan (1931).
The papers, 1878-1964 (20.5 linear feet) of museum curator, director, and art scholar William Mills Ivins (1881-1961) consist of personal and professional correspondence, writings, notes, photographs, and Ivins family papers. Ivins was Curator of Prints, 1916-1946, Assistant Director, 1933-1938, and Acting Director, 1938-1940 at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. The collection contains professional and personal correspondence with art historians, art dealers, museum curators, print and book collectors, and artists concerning the history of print making, book design and illustration, print collectors and collecting, exhibitions, and museum administration. Correspondence files appear to be complete, and correspondence is of substantive content. Also found are Ivins' published and unpublished writings and lectures, and notes. Of particular interest are the letters from Bernard Berenson, Paul J. Sachs, and Theodore Sizer, each of whom corresponded with Ivins freqently over extended periods about both personal and professional and matters.
Ivins' family papers include family correspondence, genealogies, and photographs. The papers of Ivin's wife, illustrator Florence Wyman Ivins (1881-1948), and the correspondence of several other relatives, can be found here augmented by family photographs.
This series contains the personal and professional correspondence of William M. Ivins, Jr., consisting mainly of letters addressed to Ivins, with copies of his replies amounting to about five percent of the total. Correspondence with relatives can be found with the Ivins Family Papers.
Of particular interest are the letters of Bernard Berenson, Paul J. Sachs, and Theodore Sizer, each of whom correspondend with Ivins frequently over extended periods; their letters pertain to both professional and personal matters. Very few copies of Ivins' letters to them are contained in the collection; however, Ivins' letters to Sizer (approximately 110 items, dated 1926-1959) are in the collection of Yale University Library.
Also included are letters of condolence upon the death of his wife, Florence Wyman Ivins, in 1948, and correspondence and receipts from print dealers and booksellers concerning purchases for Ivins' personal collection.
(including Elmer Adler)
(about physiology of vision and psychology of perception)
(about WMI writings, particularly Art and Geometry; family news; announcement of departure from Springfield Art Museum)
(recommending Marcel Duchamp and Walter Pach as assistants in Print Department; symbolism in "The Melancholia"; WMI's reminiscences of Arensberg [classmate, Harvard, 1090], in response to a request from Fiske Kimball)
(tribute on the occasion of WMI's retirement; invitations; letters about juries, Brooklyn Society of Etchers, and other organizations for printmakers)
(includes Barr, Alfred Hamilton, 1937; Beal, Gifford. 1935)
(about print collecting and recent sales; comments on WMI writings; Max Friedlander)
(about print collecting and books)
(MMA news, including death of E. Robinson; family news; charicatures of Acting Director Reily and unknown)
(includes: Clarke, Kenneth, 1929; Cleland, Thomas; Cortissoz, Royal, 1916-1935)
(about print collecting; WMI writings for Print Collectors Quarterly Print Dept., Museum of Fine Arts, Boston; recent books about prints; ts of article by FC, "Some Designs by Florence Wyman Ivins")
(includes: Beal, Gifford; Tack, Augustus Vincent)
(correspondence, receipts and invoices regarding purchases by WMI for personal collection)
(about WMI's writings; calligraphy; books and collecting; Fitzilliam Museum; news of mutual friends)
(about art; philosophy; opinions of recently published books; comments on WMI's writings, particularly Art and Geometry; news of mutual friends; reports on health of AEC; also included are WMI's letters to AEC, removed from AEC's files and sent to WMI by the Executor of the estate)
(about his own writings and speeches, and those of WMI; Bernard Berenson; collection of Museum of Fine Arts, Boston; travels; fakes)
(includes: Davies, Arthur B. 1921; Dillyae, Blanche, 1908-1909; duBois, Guy Pene, undated; Duchamp, Marcel, 1926-1927)
(about organization of the Newark Public Library, recordkeeping, and curatorial practices)
(about WMI writins; MMA administrative matters; invitations)
(about Contemporary Art Society, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston; and Print Collectors Quarterly)
(includes Easby, Dudley T, 1948-1958)
(books offered and purchased for WMI collection at Housatonuc Bookshop, Salisbury, Conn.; some news of mutual friends)
(about Bernard Berenson; news of mutual friends)
(about WMI lectures there)
(about Vesalius)
(includes: Gabo, Miriam [Mrs. Naum], and Nina [daughter], 1942-1953; Gallatin, A. E., 1943-1947)
(about WMI articles for Scripta Mathematica)
(about mutual friends; Bernard Berenson see also: Grolier Club Morgan Library)
(arrangements for exhibitions and other club business; includes letters from Cassatt, Mary, 1919, 1924; Greene, Belle da Costa, 1921; Havemeyer, Mrs. H.O., 1919; Pennell, Joseph, 1918-1921; Woodbury, Charles H. C., 1921; Young, Mahonri. undated; miscellaneous printed matter, notes, drafts and catalog text)
(includes: Haviland, Paul, 1908; Hind, Arthur M., 1920-1953; Hopkinson, Charles, 1946-1952)
(includes Class of 1901; general)
(about MMA staff)
(about Art and Geometry; psychology and physiology of perception; Bernard Berenson)
(includes: Janson, H. W)
(includes: Kepple, Frederick 1911-1913)
(comments on writings and speeches of WMI; MMA administration)
(includes: Lehmann-Haupt, Hellmut, 1930; Loewy, Raymond, 1934)
(about C. Goodhue Memorial Exhibition; WMI's writings; calligraphy; news of mutual friends)
(about Daumier exhibition)
(regarding Annual Lectures)
(includes MacBride, Henry, 1929; Mielziner, Leo, and Ella F. 1917-1955)
(about own writings and those of WMI)
(about Vesalian essays)
(comments on WMI's writings; exhibitions and acquisitions of MMA; biographical notes on HM)
(lists of printmakers for his book; about WMI review of Gabriel book)
(about MMA; writings of WMI)
(about Davenport College, Yale University)
(about perspective and geometry; applicants for Guggenheim Fellowships)
(about his collection and new acquisitions)
(appointment of WMI as Honorary Curator of Prints and Drawings; acquisitions; invitations; see also: Greene, Belle da Costa)
(about books and prints; printing; The Fleuron (journal of typography); news of mutual friends)
(about MMA administration and policy; writings of WMI; WMI's recommendations for Bulletin)
(includes: Pach, Walter, 1921-1955; Phillips, Duncan, 1929-1930; Print Club of Cleveland, 1923-1945; Print Club (of Philadelphia Pa.), 1925-1926; Print Club of Rochester, 1931-1932; Print Collectors Quarterly, 1922-1924; Print Makers Society of California, 1921)
(invoices and letters concerning purchases of books for WMI personal library)
(includes: Rorimer, James, 1934-1961; Rosenbach, A.S.W., 1931; Rosenberg, Jakob, 1927-1953)
(about MMA Print Dept.; other museum business, including loans and exhibitions; travels)
(about WMI writings; samples of printing; and news of mutual friends)
(about his exhibitions; travels; printing; exhibition design; WMI's writings; news of mutual friends)
(includes Schniewind, Carl O., 1930-1946; Sheeler, Charles. undated; Spicer-Simson, Theodore, 1944; Stieglitz, Alfred, 1928-1929)
(about Fogg Art Museum; Museum of Fine Arts, Boston; acquisitions; PJS lectures; WMI writings and lectures; prints and drawings on the market; travels)
(about philosophy, ancient and modern; books; Isis (Review of the History and Philosophy of Science); WMI's writings)
(about art; history of ancient Greece; WMI's writings)
(about books and reading; WMI's writings; teaching; opera set designs; news of mutual friends)
(WMI criticism of CS writings on Vesalius; books; anatomy; writings of WMI)
(WMI lectures to Cleveland Print Club; travels; news of mutual friends; exhibitions; Yale University Art Gallery; TS lectures and book on Trumbull)
(invoices and letters regarding purchase of books for WMI library)
(about MMA business; WMI lectures)
(includes U.C. Press)
(includes: Watrous, Harry W., 1925; Watson, Forbes, 1926)
(about acquisitions for FMW collection)
(Folders 35-36 about travels; prints for sale in Europe; WMI's writings; exhibitions of HAW work in U.S.; German occupation of France)
(about WMI book purchases; see also: Tauber & Weil)
(about WMI book purchases)
(about MMA staff; travels; news of mutual friends)
(about Vesalius; translations; Greek art; aesthetics; his own writings and those of WMI; news of mutual friends)
(about MMA staff; MMA Egyptian expedition; acquisitions; MMA administration)
(about Elizabethan miniatures; World War II; book about Nicholas Hilliard; news of mutual friends)
(about MMA staff; MMA Musical Instrument Collection; news of mutual friends)
(includes Young, Art, undated)
(includes Art GalleryConvocation, 1946; Elizabethan Club; Library; Y.U. Press; Yale Review)
(includes Zigrosser, Carl, 1932-1959)
The file on European travels contains letters of introduction to curators and collectors, miscellaneous notes, and expense records for museum business. Files on gifts and loans refer to those from WMI's personal collection to the museum. Metropolitan Museum Studies files include records of the Editorial board meetings, 1927-1936; circulation records, 1933; general records, 1931; Vol 4 and 5, 1933-1935; correspondence with and about contributors, including Burroughs, Alan, Cooke, Walter W.S., Cumont, Diamond, W., Dinsmore, William B., Frick, Colin G., Jacobsthal, Lewis, W.S., Morgan, John Hill, Panofsky, Erwin, Planiscig, L., Richter, Gisela A.M., Tietze, Hans, Updike, D.B., and Wehle, H; and rejected articles. Printed matter does not include exhibition catalogs from the museum.
(galley sheets annotated by WMI)
This series consists of notes, drafts, manuscripts, and corrected gallery sheets for books, articles, reviews, lectures, etc., by William M. Ivins, Jr., both published and unpublished. Some are in notebooks spanning several years and covering a range of topics, in no apparent order within the volumes. Also included are autobiographical notes, circa 1925-1950's, and leaves from diaries dated 1919 and 1943-1945. Many are untitled and undated.
This series contains an incomplete set of publications by Ivins including books, articles, lectures, exhibition catalogs, and reviews. Many are marked copies, corrected or otherwise annotated by the author. When available, reviews of books and exhibitions are filed with the corresponding volume. The first folder in the series contrains Ivin's first published work, consisting of letters written to his mother while in South America.
This series consists mainly of printed matter (neither by nor about William M. Ivins, Jr.). Most are presentation copies of articles, and other appear to have been saved by Ivins for research purposes. These cover a wide variety of topics, including: book arts, history of medicine, history of science and technology, calligraphy, history of printmaking, psychology of perception, physiology of vision, philosophy, and the U.S. legal and judicial systems.
Additional miscellaneous materials include non-printed items relating to Ivins' personal life, such as banking records, receipts and invoices for personal purchases (excluding prints and books), drawings by Ivins, and notes and clippings regarding his legal career.
The Ivins Family Papers consist mainly of correspondence between relatives and friends of the Ivins, 1878-1964, and also include drawings, clippings, genealogies, and miscellaneous items.
Correspondence between William M. Ivins, Jr., and his mother, Emma Yard Ivins, is extensive and wide-ranging. Included are letters from boarding school, c. 1890-1897, with childhood memorabilia such as grade reports, homework papers, a silhouette, and printed programs from school concerts and athletic events. His letters written while an undergraduate at Harvard, 1897-1901, and during his European trip of 1901-1902, reflect a growing interest in art. During some periods, mother and son corresponded almost daily. He frequently wrote in detail about progress with work, news of the museum, opinions about art, and activities of friends and colleagues, as well as commenting on daily life at home.
Florence Wyman Ivins (Mrs. William M. Ivins) also wrote to her mother-in-law regularly, mainly family news which often included details of her husband's professional activities.
Genealogy, notes on family history, and clippings about Ivins/Mills/Perrine families, and Ivins/Yard/Swift families.
Letters from relatives include those from Barbara Ivins [daughter]; Emma Yard Ivins [mother]; Florence Wyman Ivins [wife]; James Sterling Yard Ivins [brother]; Katharine Ivins [sister]; Margaret Ivins Holmes [sister]; Sarah Ivins [neice or cousin]; William M. Ivins, Sr., [father]; William T. Mills [grandfather]; Annie Perrine [cousin]; Loraine Wyman Painter [sister-in-law]; Walter C. Wyman [father-in-law]; and Addie Yard [grandmother].
Records concerning the estate of Ivins' estate include obituary, memorials and tributes; letters of condolence, A-Z (addressed to Barbara); and Ivins Collection of Prints and Illustrated Books, sales records and auction catalogs.
Barbara Ivins (1913-), daughter of William M. Ivins, Jr., and Florence Wyman Ivins, was the donor of the William M. Ivins, Jr. Papers. She is sometimes addressed as Barbi, Bubbles, Bubsey. Letters found here include those from Florence Wyman Ivins [mother]; Katharine Ivins [aunt], undated; and William M. Ivins, Jr., [father].
Emma Yard Ivins (1857-1940) was the mother of William M. Ivins, Jr. She was an amateur photographer whose work was exhibited at the turn of the century. She was active in the woman's suffrage movement from circa 1900 to 1915. She was sometimes addressed as Nem or Bammie.
Correspondence between William M. Ivins, Jr., and his mother, Emma Yard Ivins, is extensive and wide-ranging. Included are letters from boarding school, c. 1890-1897, with childhood memorabilia such as grade reports, homework papers, a silhouette, and printed programs from school concerts and athletic events. His letters written while an undergraduate at Harvard, 1897-1901, and during his European trip of 1901-1902, reflect a growing interest in art. During some periods, mother and son corresponded almost daily. He frequently wrote in detail about progress with work, news of the museum, opinions about art, and activities of friends and colleagues, as well as commenting on daily life at home.
Material relating to the woman's suffrage movement includes letters from Susan B. Anthony, with a photographic portrait and a printed silhouette. Also included are letters from Ida Husted Harper and Anna H. Shaw. In addition, there is miscellaneous printed matter and undated impressions of the suffrage movement in England by an author unknown.
Miscellaneous records include Christmas lists; constitution and by-laws of the Wednesday Afternoon Club, with lists of officers and programs since its establishment in 1888; a certificate from the Woodrow Wilson Foundation; and clippings about Emma Yard Ivins.
Letters from relatives include those from James S. Y. Ivins [son]; Katharine Ivins [daughter]; Margaret Ivins Holmes and Jonathan Holmes [daughter and grandson]; Sarah Mills Ivins [mother-in-law]; William M. Ivins, Jr. [son]; and William M. Ivins, Jr., and Florence Wyman Ivins [son and daughter-in-law].
Florence Wyman Ivins was the wife of William M. Ivins, Jr., and an illustrator, primarily of children's books, and a painter of children's portraits. Many of her letters to family members are illustrated with pen and ink drawings or watercolors. She was addressed as Flossie of Flo.
Letters from family and friends include those from Emma Yard Ivins [mother-in-law]; Katharine Ivins [sister-in-law]; Sarah Ivins; William M. Ivins, Jr. [husband]; Margaret Orr; Margaret Wind; Helen and Herbert Winlock; Wyman Family [letters from FWI to her father and sister].
Artwork includes a sketchbook, Southold [L. I.], from the summer of 1922, containing watercolor and pencil sketches of local scenery, Barbara, WMI, Jr., Loraine Wyman, and Paderewski. Also found here are portraits of William M. Ivins, Jr, (2), Bruce Rogers, and Marion Stone; miscellaneous prints and drawings; Christmas and other greeting cards designed by FWI, circa 1910-1937, including a 1937 New Year's greeting, "A Parable of Artists and Art Critics" by Hans Christian Andersen, illustrated by FWI with calligraphy by WMI, Jr.
Miscellaneous material includes notes about E.S. [Elizabeth Sears?]; a flyer advertising children's portraits by FWI, with snapshots of children [used for paintings?]; a marriage announcement and related clippings, 1910; and Wyman family obituaries, including FWI.
Writings include childhood reminiscences and principles of art instruction at Brearly School.
Katharine Ivins (circa 1888-) was the sister of William M.Ivins, Jr. A music teacher, she lived with mother in the Yard family home, in Freehold, N.J. She was addressed as Kate or Katti.
Letters from relatives include those from Barbara Ivins [niece] Florence Wyman Ivins [sister-in-law]; Margaret Ivins Holmes [sister]; and William M. Ivins, Jr. [brother]. Writings include an essay [school homework], and a notebook, including childhood reminiscences with mention of mother's photography, schooling etc.
Margaret Ivins Holmes, (1882-1954), sister of William M. Ivins, Jr., lived in Freehold, N.J. and ran an antique store there with her husband, William Holmes. She was addressed as Margie or Peggy. Letters from relatives include those from Florence W. Ivins [sister-in-law]; William M. Ivins, Jr. [brother]; and William M. Ivins, Sr. [father].
William M. Ivins, Sr., (1851-1915), father of William M. Ivins, Jr., was a lawyer and politician and was addressed as Will. He spent a great deal of time in Europe and South America as a corporate lawyer. In 1905, he ran unsuccessfully for mayor of New York City. Business correspondence includes a letter from Mme. Blavatsky, with clippings and photographic portrait. Letters from relatives include those from Emma Yard Ivins [wife]; Katharine Ivins [daughter]; Margaret Ivins Holmes [daughter]; Sarah Mills Ivins [mother]; William M. Ivins, Jr. [son]; Annie Perrine [cousin]; James S. Yard [father-in-law]. Miscellaneous material includes biographical notes; clippings by and about WMI Sr., including an obituary; and miscellaneous notes copied from an unidentified publication.
In addition to portraits of family members this series includes interior and exterior views of homes, and pictures of friends and events.
The Ivins Family photographs represent many processes from tintypes to silver gelatin prints. A number were taken by accomplished amateur photographer Emma Yard Ivins of her children, circa 1890-1905; a few of her children are purported to be the work of Gertrude Kasebier (possibly an acquaintance of Emma Yard Ivins?).
(includes Yard Family home, Freehold, N.J.)
(includes photos of illustrations by FWI)
(including views of The Hut and The Breezes, Narragansett Pier, R.I.)
Architecture photographs mainly consist of photographs of colonial architecture, apparently taken by William M. Ivins circa 1930-1940. These are unidentified, except for location, and arranged by state. Also included are a few scenes of Europe from the same period, featuring buildings.
Miscellaneous photographs include those used as illustrations for How Prints Look and pictures of the Alberti Model for On the Rationalization of Sight (which may have been used to illustrate other writings, as well). The subseries also includes additional subjects such as a view of the Swarthmore College campus [Barbara's alma mater] and painting conservation [Metropolitan Museum of Art?].
Eight poster prints of "Protest Drawings" by Jackson, notes on the prints; and a resume. The prints were made as a fundraising project for civil rights organizations.
The papers of Katherine Gauss Jackson measure 0.6 linear feet and date from 1919 to 1974. The bulk of the collection consists of letters from Alfred H. Barr, Jr. to Katherine Gauss Jackson during the 1920s while they were studying at Princeton University and Smith College, respectively. Also found is scattered material relating to Barr including an outline on Russian music, a photograph, notes on modern art, and printed material concerning Barr's 70th birthday celebration.
Series includes materials sent to Katherine Gauss Jackson over the course of her long friendship with Alfred H. Barr, Jr. General material includes a "bluff sheet" outlining Russian classical music; a photograph of Barr with others from 1923; notes on postcards commenting on modern art; and clippings and an invitation for Barr's 70th birthday celebration. Barr's letters to Jackson are personal and are largely written during his time at Princeton University and while she was studying at Smith College in the 1920s. The letters discuss their friendship and connection, friends, classes, and social events. Also found are scattered letters from Margaret Scolari Barr to Jackson.
The Jack Rasmussen Gallery records measure 8.3 linear feet and date from 1936 to 1984, with the bulk of the records dating from 1978 to 1982. The records shed light on the gallery's operations through administrative records, financial and legal records, artist files, and printed material.
Administrative records consist of files related to art organizations, several of the gallery's exhibitions, collectors, and Jack Rasmussen's career. Files include correspondence, an interview with Rasmussen conducted by Robert Bove, price lists, by- laws, guestbooks, memos, writings, and some sales records. Artist files are comprised of correspondence, exhibition announcements, price lists, slides and photographs of artwork and artists, sales records, statements, and agreements. Some newspaper clippings, sketches and illustrations, and loan agreements are also present. Financial and legal records consist of contracts, sales records, account ledgers, bills, invoices, and stationery. Printed materials include press releases, exhibition announcements, posters, and catalogs, newspaper and magazine clippings, and a couple of scrapbooks.
Files in this series cover a variety of subjects, including exhibitions held at the gallery and elsewhere; involvement by Jack Rasmussen and his gallery in art organizations and institutions; donations; and publicity. Found in these files are correspondence, price lists, loan records, newspaper and magazine clippings, writings, artist resumes, and organizational records such as meeting minutes, memos, and by laws. General correspondence files consist of letters with artists, collectors, museums, and also include some sales records. A significant portion of this series is comprised of Patron/Artist cards that contain artist and collector contact information, prices, and some sales records.
This series also includes several files relating to the personal and professional life of Jack Rasmussen. These files consist of writings and a notepad; an interview transcript; correspondence with artists, colleagues, and friends; postcards; photographs from events; and scant appraisal records.
Folders typically include correspondence, exhibition announcements, price lists, slides and photographs of artwork and artists, sales records, statements, and agreements. Some artist files also include images of exhibitions, illustrated letters and sketches, and loan agreements.
Financial records consist of gallery and artist account ledgers and statements, sales slips, bills, and invoices. Also present are sheets of sales form stationery. Legal records shed light on the gallery's partnership program through contracts, inventories, and correspondence; and also include drafts and blank copies of artist agreements.
Found here are press releases; two scrapbooks comprised of newspaper clippings, exhibition announcements, and catalogs; and loose clippings related to Jack Rasmussen, his gallery, and general art- and business-related topics. Also present are a handful of exhibition posters, exhibition announcements for a majority of Rasmussen's shows, and exhibition catalogs from the solo shows of Farhad Ostovani, Havana Mehutan, John Blee, and Robert Gates.
The Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., records measure approximately 203.1 linear feet and date from between 1904 and 1978, with bulk dates of 1913-1974. The records include extensive correspondence files, reference material on American and European collectors and their collections, inventory and stock records, financial records, exhibition files, auction files, and the records of subsidiary companies, including de Hauke & Co., Inc., and Modern Paintings, Inc.
Historians and researchers will find the collection an invaluable resource in tracing the provenance of particular works of art. Although in the early 1940s many records in the Paris office were destroyed by Seligmann staff to keep them from falling into the hands of the occupying German military forces, many records survive, as much of the firm's business had previously come to center in the New York office. In all, the remaining records provide a comprehensive view of the activities and transactions of collectors and art dealers in the years leading up to and following World War II.
Correspondence (Series 1) is the largest series of the collection (80 linear feet) and is comprised of extensive correspondence files, primarily between Germain Seligman and his New York office staff with domestic and foreign private clients, collectors, dealers, individuals representing public museums and collections, and international scholars. The New York Office Correspondence (Series 1.1) concerns a wide variety of topics, including routine business matters, but focuses primarily on potential and realized sales and purchases and provenance documentation. Also found is detailed information on financial transactions, commissions, stock inventory, and the travel of Germain Seligman and other staff. Paris Office Correspondence (Series 1.2) is separated into a small subseries and contains correspondence written primarily by Jacques Seligmann from Paris. The subseries General Correspondence (Series 1.3) is the largest subsection of the Correspondence series and contains letters written to and received from clients and other business associates concerning business transactions and inquiries. The subseries Museum Correspondence (Series 1.4) contains letters between the firm and art institutions and museums. The subseries Germain Seligman's Correspondence (Series 1.5), contains not only personal letters but a wealth of information concerning the affairs of the firm. Much personal correspondence was marked "private."
Also of note in the Correspondence series are the Legal Correspondence Files (Series 1.6) and the Inter-Office Correspondence (Series 1.9) and Inter-Office Memoranda (Series 1.13). The Legal Correspondence Files subseries houses correspondence with both U.S. and Paris attorneys and concerns legal affairs and specific lawsuits. Of particular interest are Germain Seligman's attempts to recover Seligmann family and Paris gallery artwork and other assets stolen or confiscated by the Germans in World War II. This small subseries also contains limited information on the stock and inventory holdings of several of the firm's and Germain Seligman's subsidiary corporations, family legal affairs and lawsuits, and other related legal matters. The subseries Inter-Office Correspondence and Inter-Office Memoranda (called fiches by Seligmann staff) include memos between Germain Seligman and his staff about clients, collectors, sales, acquisitions, and other matters. These offer interesting commentary clearly intended to be read by staff only.
Also prominent is Collectors Files (Series 2), which contains numerous reference files documenting the collections of existing and potential clients with whom Seligmann & Co. maintained contacts. The files are arranged by either individual name or institution and reflect the wide scope of collector references maintained by the firm throughout its operating years. The files contain a variety of reference materials, such as photographs, provenance notes, and sales, purchase, and inventory information in cases where the collector purchased from the firm or the firm purchased from the collector. Researchers will find that many of the private and public names that appear in General Correspondence (Series 1.3) appear in the Collectors Files as well. Also found in this series are specific files relating to the Duc d'Arenberg Collection, the Clarence H. Mackay Collection, the Mortimer L. Schiff Collection, and the Prince of Liechtenstein Collection. The firm either handled substantial estate sales for these collections or purchased and sold important pieces from these collections.
Auction Files (Series 3) and Exhibition files (Series 4) trace the sales and exhibition activities undertaken by Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc. In the Auction files, researchers will find documentation of auctions of individual works of art owned by the firm and handled by Christie's, Parke-Bernet, and other auction houses. Of particular interest is the 1948-1949 Parke-Bernet auction of the C. S. Wadsworth Trust, a "dummy" trust set up by the firm to dispose of a portion of its unsold inventory. The Exhibition Files house a variety of documentation, such as catalogs and correspondence, concerning the firm's active exhibition history. Many of the exhibitions featured works of art recently acquired by the firm, such as the 1937 exhibition, Twenty Years in the Evolution of Picasso, which included a number of Picassos the firm acquired from Madame Jacques Doucet that year.
Reference Files (Series 5) includes a card catalog to books and catalogs in the library maintained by Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., and a photograph reference index of works of art. Inventory and Stock Files (Series 6) tracks the firm's inventory through a series of stock books and supporting documentation that include sales and provenance information.
Financial Files and Shipping Records (Series 7) consists primarily of records of the New York office, but some Paris office documents can be found scattered throughout. Found in this series is a wide variety of financial records including purchase receipt files, credit notes, invoices, consignment invoices and books, invoices, consular invoices, sales and purchase account books, ledgers, and tax records. The records appear to be quite complete and date from 1910 to 1977. Of particular interest are the purchase receipts and credit notes and memoranda that contain detailed documentation on acquisitions and sales. The consignment invoices provide information about works of art sold on behalf of other galleries and dealers, as well as which galleries and dealers were handling works of art for Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc. Although quite large and complex, the financial records offer a comprehensive overview of the firm's business and financial transactions.
The records of subsidiary companies that were part of Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., such as Contemporary American Department, de Hauke & Co., Inc., Modern Paintings, Inc., and Gersel Corp. are arranged in their own series. In 1935, the firm established the Contemporary American Department to represent young American artists. Under the direction of Theresa D. Parker, a longtime gallery employee, the department initiated an exhibition and loan program. Contemporary American Department (Series 8) includes mostly correspondence files and exhibition files.
The largest subsidiary company to operate under Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., was de Hauke & Co., Inc. De Hauke & Co., Inc., Records (Series 9) dates from 1925 through 1949 and contains domestic and foreign correspondence with clients, collectors, and dealers; inter-office correspondence and memoranda with Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc.; administrative and legal files; and financial records. Modern Paintings, Inc., records (Series 10) contains the legal and financial files of this subsidiary company, which was established in 1930 to incorporate most of the stock of the liquidated de Hauke & Co., Inc. Gersel Corp. Records (Series 11) contains a small amount of material from this company.
Researchers should note that a scattering of records from most of the subsidiary companies may also be found throughout additional series, particularly Inventory and Stock Files (Series 6) and Financial Files and Shipping Records (Series 7). Records for the firms Tessa Corp. and Georges Haardt & Co., which were also owned by Germain Seligman, are not part of the Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., Records, although scattered references to these two firms may be encountered throughout the collection.
German Seligman's Personal papers (Series 12) includes scattered family and biographical materials, his research and writings files, and documentation of his personal art collection. Found in Family and Biographical Material (Series 12.1) are photographs of family members, including Jacques Seligmann, and of the Paris gallery. Also found is a limited amount of correspondence concerning Germain Seligman's residency status and his desire to obtain an army commission during World War II. Germain Seligman's research and writing files are found in this series and include material for his books: Roger de La Fresnaye, with a Catalogue Raisonné (1969); Merchants of Art, 1880-1960: Eighty Years of Professional Collecting (1961); The Drawings of Georges Seurat (1947); and Oh! Fickle Taste; or Objectivity in Art (1952). Documentation of Germain Seligman's private art collection is arranged in this series and includes provenance and research files and correspondence concerning his art collection.
Overall, the historical records of Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., offer researchers a comprehensive and detailed resource for studying one of the most active dealers in decorative arts, Renaissance, and European contemporary art. The records clearly document the firm's numerous acquisitions and sales of important works of art to well-known European and American collectors and museums as well as Germain Seligman's extensive client contacts and references. The collection offers an insightful, intriguing, and often fascinating view into the complex field of art sales, trading, and acquisition during the first half of the twentieth century, when many major collections in the United States were formed.
Researchers interested in tracing the provenance of individual works of art should carefully check each series of the collection for information to obtain a complete history for any work. Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., staff set up many different files to cross-reference works of art from various angles, such as artist or creator; collector or collection; most recent owner or repository location; stock inventory number, if owned by Seligmann & Co.; and photographic reference files. The task is made somewhat more difficult by the number of commission sales and joint ownership of works of art, often documented solely in the Inventory and Stock Files (Series 6) or the Financial Files and Shipping Records (Series 7). Only by tracing a name or date through the various series can one find all of the information relating to a particular work of art and its provenance.
The largest in the collection, the Correspondence series includes the general correspondence of Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., with individuals and museums; the personal business correspondence of Germain Seligman; legal correspondence and other documentation concerning specific and general legal affairs; abstracts of letters sent; a small group of outgoing correspondence; correspondence of staff and agents Theresa D. Parker, Clyfford Trevor, and Rolf Hans Waegen; and inter-office memoranda.
The entire history of the firm, especially the years when the New York office functioned as the primary headquarters of the company, is well documented in this extensive series. The bulk of the correspondence reflects the period when Germain Seligman directed the firm and the New York office, although there is a small series of Paris office and gallery correspondence written mostly by Jacques Seligmann. Researchers will find correspondence with both U.S. and European clients, collectors, museums, dealers, galleries, shippers, U.S. and foreign government agents, bankers, and insurance firms in the General Correspondence (Series 1.3) and Museum Correspondence (Series 1.4). For additional documentation of the firm's business affairs, researchers should also consult Germain Seligman's Correspondence (Series 1.5), which includes not only personal invitations and announcements but also business correspondence that he considered to be of a more private nature. Legal Correspondence Files (Series 1.6) is arranged in a separate subseries and houses several interesting files concerning general legal affairs, specific lawsuits, and attempts to recover Seligmann family and gallery artwork stolen in Paris during World War II. Also of notable interest is the subseries housing the Inter-Office Memoranda (Series 1.13), which includes notations made by Germain Seligman and staff about clients, collectors, possible sales and acquisitions, and many other business matters. The interesting commentary was clearly intended to be read by staff only.
The letters are mostly written by Jacques Seligmann and Germain Seligman while in the New York office on frequent trips to the United States. Between 1920 and 1922, the firm was managed primarily by Jacques's colleague Eugene Glaenzer and nephew René Seligmann and depended on the Paris office for most of its inventory. When Germain Seligman completed his military service shortly after World War I, he became actively involved in the business affairs of the New York office and began to cultivate and increase the number of the firm's clients and collectors in the United States. Jacques Seligmann died in 1923, and Eugene Glaenzer a few months later, and in 1924 Germain became head of the company. Germain then began to dramatically increase the business of the New York office, thus marking the transition of the firm's headquarters from Paris to New York.
The subjects covered in the correspondence are diverse and primarily concern possible sales or purchases. Found are letters to clients, collectors, dealers, and business associates, most of them American. Many of the names appearing throughout the correspondence are also found in the Paris Office Correspondence (Series 1.2), General Correspondence (Series 1.3), and Museum Correspondence (Series 1.4) that follow.
Missing Title
Abbott, J. B.
Ackerman, Phyllis
Adams, E. L.
Adler, David
Alavoine, L. (see L. Alavoine & Co.)
Aldred, J. E.
Allen, George Marshall
Missing Title
Ambassador
American Art News
American Art Association/American Art Galleries (Thomas F. Kirby)
American Express Company
American Federation of Arts
Anderson Galleries
Angus, Richard B.
Anson, Mrs. Alfred
Armour, Mrs. Laurance Hearne
Art Association of Indianapolis
Art Center
Art Importing Co.
Art Institute of Chicago
Missing Title
Bache, Jules S.
Bailey, Edith (Mrs. Vernon Howe)
Bakewell-Green, Estelle
Barnard, George Grey
Barney (Charles D.) & Co.
Batterson & Eisele
Baule, J. B.
Bauman, Jack
Bayer, Edwin S.
Bechtinger, E. F.
Becker & Co.
Benguiat, Benjamin
Bergfeldt, J. V. P.
Bermuth, Edith S.
Bernard, Judae & Company
Berolzheimer, Mrs. A.
Berthelot, S. E. Philippe
Bescoby, Mrs. B. A.
Biddle, Mrs. Antony J. Drexel, Jr.
Bigelow, Mrs. David
Missing Title
Black, Mrs. Harry
Blackstone (hotel)
Blair, C. Ledyard
Bliss, Mrs. G. T.
Bliss, Lillie P.
Bliss, Susan Dwight
Blum, Henry
Blumenthal, Mr. and Mrs. George
Missing Title
Bobb, Rita H.
Bodker, Albert J.
Borchard, Mrs. Samuel
Borchard, Samuel
Bosworth, W. W.
Boyer, Florence H.
Bradley, Edson
Breeland, Mrs. James
Brentano's
Brisbane, Arthur
Brissac Owen, Mr. and Mrs. William de (see de Brissac Owen, Mr. and Mrs. William)
British Passport Control Office
Brokaw, Howard C.
Brooklyn Museum
Bryant, Miss Harriet C.
Buckingham, Kate S.
Buffalo Fine Arts Academy, Albright Art Gallery
Bunn, Henry W.
Missing Title
Caldarazzo, Inc.
Carlhian of Paris
Carnegie Institute
Carolan, Mrs. Francis
Central Bureau for Registered Addresses
Chalfin, Paul
Chambers, W. B.
Chatain, Alfred
Chiusa, Marquise Della
Missing Title
Clark, Charles W.
Clark, Stephen C.
Clark, William A.
Clarke, Augustus W.
Clarke, Lewis L.
Cincinnati Museum Association
Cleveland Museum of Art
Missing Title
Coburn, Mrs. Lewis L.
Coe, W. R.
Collector of Port
Consulat Général de France
Cook, Walter William Spencer
Coolidge, J. T.
Copley-Plaza Hotel
Corporation Trust Co.
Coster, Mrs. William B.
Missing Title
Cram, Ralph A.
Cravath, Paul D.
Cret, Paul Phillippe
Crosby, John
Cross, John
Cruikshank's Sons Real Estate
Cunard Steam Ship Company Limited
Curtis, Fosdick and Belknap
Missing Title
Davidson, Henry F.
Davies, Lelwyn (see Wimborne, Lord)
Davis, Mortimer B.
Dearborn, Mrs. George S.
Dearth, Mrs. H. Golden
de Brissac Owen, Mr. and Mrs. William
DeCamp, Sutphin and Brumleve
Deering, James
Delalande, J.
De Lamar, Alice
De Loca, John C.
del Monte, Diane
de Lucinge-Faucigny, Princess
de Périgny, Comte
Deschamps, Maurice
Desurmont-Mott, Mrs.
Detroit Institute of Arts
Devries, Maurice
de Wild, Carol F. L
de Wolfe, Elsie
Missing Title
Diamond, Inc.
Dickerman, Watson B.
District Attorney's Office, New York
Dixon, Eleanor Widener
Dorr News Service
Dougherty, Paul
Doyley, Comte
Duke, Mrs. Benjamin N.
duPont, Alfred I.
Durand-Ruel, Inc.
Durant, W. C.
Duryea, Mrs. Harry
Dutel, Pierre
Dwight, Mrs. E. F.
Edgewater Tapestry Looms
Eggers, George William
Ehrich Galleries
Eisner, Sigmund
Emerson, William
Eyre, Wilson
Missing Title
F. A. Straus & Co., Inc.
F. Kleinberger Galleries, Inc.
Fairbanks, Arthur
Farandatos Bros.
Farr, Daniel
Fearon, Walter P.
Feder, Joseph Fuller
Federal Trade Information Service
Feldman, Edward D.
Felsenheld, Emanuel
Feuerman, E.
Fifth Avenue Association
Fifth Avenue Bank
Fischer, V. G.
Fitzgerald, Edward F.
Forbes, Edward Waldo
Missing Title
Franco-American Board of Commerce and Industry
Frank, Pearl V.
Fraser, Charles L.
French Chamber of Commerce of the United States
French Institute in the United States
French Restoration Fund
Frey, L. B.
Frick, Helen Clay
Friedel, Albert H.
Friedsam, M.
Froehlich, Mrs. E.
Missing Title
Gage, George E.
Gardner, John Lowell and Isabelle
Gillet, Mme. Edmond
Goldman, Henry
Gould, Margaret B.
Granard, Lord and Lady
Gréber, Jacques
Greene, Belle da Costa
Greenleaf, Richard C.
Griswold, Mrs. F. Gray
Gunsaulus, Frank W.
Missing Title
Hanatschek, H.
Hannon, E.
Harding, J. Horace
Harriman, Mrs. E. H.
Hart, Stephen F.
Hast, Miss L.
Hastings, Thomas
Havemeyer, Mrs. Horace O.
Healy, Hon. A. Augustus
Hearst, William Randolph
Hechler, C. H.
Hecht, J. R.
Heckscher, Mrs. August
Helbrun, Mr.
Herrick, Myron T.
Hervilly, A. D.
Hesslein, Edward J.
Hevergon, E. L.
Hewitt, Erskine
Hibbard, Spencer, Bartlett & Co.
Hiss, Philip
Hobbey
Hobby, Theodore Y.
Hofer, Martin
Hoggson Bros.
Holander, Barnett
Holmes, Jackson
Missing Title
Hudson Forwarding & Shipping Co.
Hughes, Arthur W.
Hunt, Clyde
Hunt, Leavitt J.
Hunter, George Leyland
Huntington, Archer
Huntington, Henry E.
Interview
Ickelheimer, Henry
Jaccaci, August F.
Jaehne, H.A.E.
James, Mrs. Arthur Curtiss
Jansen, Inc.
Jennings, Oliver Gould
John Wanamaker, New York
Johnson, John G.
Jucker, Werner
Juley, Peter A.
Jusserand
Missing Title
Kahn, Otto H.
Keller, Albert
Keller, Gustave
Kelly, George F.
Kleinberger, François (see F. Kleinberger Galleries, Inc.)
Klinkhardt & Biermann
Knoedler & Co. (see M. Knoedler & Co.)
Koons, Louis, Jr.
Kozminski, Maurice W.
Samuel H. Kress & Co. (see Samuel H. Kress Foundation)
Kroll, Mr.
Kronberg, Louis
Missing Title
L. Alavoine & Co.
La France Publishing Corp.
Lalor, John Charles
Lamont, Florence
Lanier, Harriet B.
Langdon Hotel
Larcade, M. Edouard
La Rue, B.V.M.
Lawlor, Lily
Lazard Frères
Leavitt, Charles Wellford
Lehman, Allan
Lehman, Philip
Lenoble, R.
Leonard, William Clement
Leventritt, Cook & Nathan
Levi, Julian (Julien Levy?)
Levy, Mrs. B. E.
Levy, Florence N.
Levy, John
Lévy, Regine S.
Lewis, Clarence
Lewis, K. Park
Lewis & Valentine Company
Lewisohn, Mr. and Mrs. Samuel A.
Libbey, Edward Drummond
Liébert
Lincoln Safe Deposit Co.
Livingood, Charles J.
Lobe & Co.
Lotus Magazine Foundation, Inc.
Louis, Ellis C.
Lucinge-Faucigny, Princess de (see de Lucinge-Faucigny, Princess)
Luckenbach, Mrs. Edgar F.
Lyon, Mrs. B.
Missing Title
M. Knoedler & Co., Inc.
Maass, Mrs. Herbert H.
MacCarthy, J. F.
Macerow
Mackay, Clarence H.
Macomber, Frank Gair
Macy, Valentine E.
Missing Title
Manhattan Storage & Warehouse Co.
Mann, Harrington
Manning, T. F.
Marbury, Elisabeth
Marshall Field & Co.
Martin, Henri
Masters, Mrs.
Mather, Samuel
Mather, William G.
Missing Title
Maxwell, Elsa
May, William B., Jr.
Mayer, B. W.
Mayer, Eugene
Maynard, Walter E.
McBride, Mrs. Herbert
McCarthy, Thomas
McCormack, John Count
McCormick, Harold
McFadden, George
McLean
Missing Title
Meeker, Arthur
Mellon, Andrew W.
Mellon, Richard B.
Mensch, E.
Meredith, Sir Vincent
Mermet, F.
Metropolitan Art Association
Metropolitan Museum of Art
Missing Title
Middleton, Mrs. Merle Taylor
Miller, Mack and Fairchild
Millhiser, Mrs. R. V. G.
Milliken, Henry O.
Milliken, William
Minneapolis Institute of Arts
Missirian, Manouk
Moffett, Mrs. George M.
Monell, Ambrose
Monod, Francois
Montagnac, Madame
Montani, Fabrizio A.
Morgan, J. Pierpont (John Pierpont)
Morphy-Voitier, Regina
Morse, Albert L.
Mortimer, Stanley
Mosenthal, Philip J.
Mott, Dr. Henry Elliott
Mountbatten, Lord Louis
Mount Sinai Hospital
Muchnic, Charles M.
Munroe, Louise (John Munroe & Co.)
Missing Title
National Association of Portrait Painters
National Stone Renovating Co.
Neilson, Mrs. Francis
Netter, Gaston G.
New York American
New York Herald
Newton, Honorable Byron
Norman Remington Co.
Norman, W. W.
Norris, M.
North German Lloyd Steamship Co.
Norton, Charles D.
Norton, H.
Missing Title
Oakman, Mrs. J.
O'Brian, J. B.
Ochs, Adolph S.
O'Connor, A.
Ogden & Clarkson Corp.
Oliver, Robert T.
Oriental Navigation Co.
Osborne, Loyall A.
Missing Title
P. W. French & Co., Inc.
Pam, Max
Panama-Pacific International Exposition
Parish Watson & Co.
Park Avenue Association
Park-Lewis, Katharine
Parmelee, James
Paterson, Rufus
Paul, A. T.
Pease & Elliman
Pell, Mrs. S.H.P.
Pennsylvania Museum
Périgny, Comte de (see de Périgny, Comte)
Permutit Company
Pfizer, Emile
Pflueger, Carl F.
Pforzheimer, Carl H.
Phipps, John S. [illegible]
Missing Title
Picemardi, Marquise di Calvatone Fommi
Pierce, Daniel T.
Pijoan, Joseph
Pillsbury, Alfred F.
Pisseau, Bernard
Pitcairn, Raymond
Pitkin, William, Jr.
Platt, Charles A.
Plaza Hotel
Polk & Co. (see R. L. Polk & Co., Inc.)
Porter, A. Kingsley
Postmaster General
Pouch Terminal Inc.
Powell, Richard
Pratt, Clyde A.
Pratt, George D.
Price, Samuels & Buckingham
Princeton University Press
Pulitzer, Mrs. Joseph, Jr.
Putnam, Mrs. Eliot
Missing Title
R. L. Polk & Co., Inc.
Rice, Mrs. Alexander Hamilton (Eleanor E.)
Richardson, Philip
Riefstahl, R. M.
Riou, Gaston
Ritz-Carlton Hotel
Rockefeller, John D., Jr.
Rolph, Ernest R.
Roncin, Gustave
Rosenbach, Philip H.
Rosenfeld, Mrs. Ernst
Rossbach, Leonora
Rothbarth, Albert (Albert Rothbart?)
Rowe, L. Earle (Rhode Island School of Design)
Royal Copenhagen Porcelain and Danish Arts
Rubinstein, Stella
Ryan, Thomas F.
Ryerson, Martin A.
Missing Title
Sachs, Arthur
Sachs, Harry
Samuel H. Kress Foundation
Sanders, Zelenko & Polstein
San Francisco Art Association
Santa Fe Art Museum
Satinover Galleries
Satterwhite, Dr. Preston Pope
Missing Title
Schiffer, Sam
Schley, E. B.
Schmidt, N. Isabel
Schniewind, Henry, Jr.
Schoellkopen, Walter
Schuhmann (Robert) & Co.
Severance, John L.
Missing Title
Sheffield, Mrs. James R.
Shepherd, Dr. F. J.
Sidley, Irene
Simonson, A.
Simonson, Leo B.
Sloog, Maurice
Smith, Corina Haven
Smith, Dr. Haley
Smith, Joseph Lindon
Steffenson, Mrs. O. M.
Stein, Leonard L.
Missing Title
Stern, Mrs. Benjamin
Sterner, Marie
Stettenheim, I. M.
Steyne, Alan
Stotesbury, Mrs. Edward T.
Stout, F. B.
Missing Title
Straubly, Josef [illegible]
Straus, Mrs. Herbert N.
Straus, Jesse I.
Straus, Lionel F.
Straus, Percy S.
Straus, Mrs. S. W.
Suarez, Diego
Sullivan & Cromwell
Syracuse, F. V.
Missing Title
Taft, Charles P.
Taylor, Sir Frederick Williams
Taylor, James Duane
Taylor, Myron C.
Teague, Walter Dorwin
Terrisse, A.
Thacher, Mrs. A. G.
Thomas, Louis
Thomitz, G.
Thompson, Col. William B.
Thorne, Thomas P.
Thursby, Mrs. C.
Thursley, Mrs.
Tim, Bernard S.
Timken, William R.
Tinelli, F. B.
Titus, Dr. Norman Edwin
Missing Title
Toch, Maximillian
Toffler, M.
Tonying & Company
Town & Country
Town Topics
Tritton [illegible]
Troubetzkoy, Pierre
Trumbauer, Horace
Turner Construction Co.
Turrell, Charles
Tyler, Mrs. George F. (Stella)
Missing Title
Underwood & Underwood, Inc.
United States Cable Censor
United States Government Department of the Treasury
United States Government Internal Revenue Service
United States Government Tariff Commission
United War Work Campaign
Untermeyer, Samuel
Valentiner, Dr. William R.
Vanderbilt, Mrs. Alfred
Vanderbilt, Mrs. Cornelius
Veiller, Frank D.
Verget, G.
Villa, Alfonso
Vimnera, Auguste
Viviani, Madame R.
von Lossberg, V. F.
Voron, H.
Missing Title
Wachter Bros. Engineers and Exporters
Walker & Gillette
Walker, A. Stewart
Walker, Charles A.
Walker, M. L.
Walters, Henry
Walton, Bannister & Hubbard
Wareham, John Dee
Warren, H. D.
Warren and Wetmore
War Trade Board
Warwick House, Ltd.
Watts, James
Missing Title
Weissberger, Herbert P.
Wells, Mrs. S.
Werson, C. J.
William A. White & Co.
Whiting, E. B.
Whitney, Mrs. Harry Payne
Widener, George D.
Wilcox, Mrs. E.
Wild, Carol F. L. de (see de Wild, Carol F. L.)
Wildenstein & Co.
Wilhelson, H.
Wilson, J. O.
Missing Title
Wimborne, Lord (Lelwyn Davies)
Wimpfheimer, Charles A.
Winthrop, Grenville L.
Missing Title
Wood, William W., Jr.
Woolworth, F. W.
Worcester Art Museum
World
Wulff, C. A.
Zeta-Be Company
Ziegler, William, Jr.
Zug, George B.
This small subseries contains letters mostly written by Jacques Selignmann from the Paris office to U.S. clients, collectors, and business associates. Although the earliest date reflected is 1914 and the latest is 1930, the bulk of the letters date from 1921 through 1924 and document the firm's business when the Paris office was its primary headquarters. Many of the same names that appear in the New York Office Correspondence (Series 1.1) and General Correspondence (Series 1.3) are found here as well. Most of the letters are to or from clients, collectors, and dealers concerning possible and realized sales and purchases.
Missing Title
Ackerman, Phyllis
Adler, David
Aldred, J. E.
Allen, George Marshall
American Art Association
Archibald
Art Institute of Chicago
Missing Title
Bache, Jules S.
Baker, George F.
Baldwin, Charles
Barnard, George Grey
Barney Estate Company
Bayer, Mr. and Mrs. Edwin S.
Bayer, Laura
Becker, Margaret
Berenson, Bernard
Biddle, Antony J. Drexel, Jr.
Bigelow, Henry Forbes
Blair, C. Ledyard
Bliss, Susan Dwight
Blum, Albert
Blumenthal, Mr. and Mrs. George
Boswell, Peyton
Bosworth, W. W.
Boulanger, Marcel
Bouy, Jules
Bradley, Edson
Breck, Joseph
Buckingham, Kate S.
Missing Title
Calder, Sen. William M.
Caro, Juan
Cass-Gilbert
Chambers, W. B.
Chase, Henry H.
Chatain, Alfred
Chenue, J.
Cincinnati Art Museum
Clark, Charles W.
Clark, Stephen C.
Codman, Ogden
Coe, W. R.
Cohen, William
Coleman, Mary Louise
Conley, John E.
Coolidge, J. T.
Cram, Ralph A.
Cret, Paul Phillippe
Missing Title
Dalton, Henry G.
Davison, H. P.
Dearth, Mrs. H. Golden
De Canson
De Forest, Robert
De Lamar, Alice
de Montet, Dr. Charles
Demotte, G. J.
De Vasselot, Marquet
de Wolfe, Elsie
Dickerman, Watson B.
Dillon, Clarence
Dorr, Charles H.
Dreicer & Co.
Dreycer, Michael
Duke, B. N.
Missing Title
Ehrman, Sidney M.
Einstein, Mr.
Farr, Daniel
Fearon Galleries, Inc.
Feulner, Dr.
Fiorentini, S.
Fletcher, Isaac D.
Frank, Stuart H.
Frick, Helen Clay
Frick, Henry Clay
Friedley, Mr.
Friedsam, M.
Missing Title
Gerry, Mrs. Peter
Glaenzer, Eugene
Greenebaum, Fred H.
Greene, Belle da Costa
Guaranty Trust Company of New York
Missing Title
Haardt, Georges
Harriman, Mrs. E. H.
Helleu, Paul
Hewitt, Erskine
Higham, Neville
Hofer, Martin
Horowitz, L. J.
Huegate, Wilson
Huntington, Archer
Huntington, Mr. and Mrs. Henry E.
Jackson, Jr., Edwin E.
James, Mrs. Arthur Curtiss
Kahn, Otto H.
Kent, H. W.
Kessler, George
Kieffer, H., Jr.
King, Frederic Rhinelander
Kleinberger, François (see also F. Kleinberger Galleries, Inc., in Series 1.1: New York Office Correspondence)
Knoedler, Roland
Missing Title
Lachlan, Jane Law
Lalor, John Charles
Laurvik, J. Nilson
Lazard Frères
Lehman, Allan
Lehman, Henri
Lehman, Philip
Levy, Julien (Julian Levi?)
Lewisohn, Adolph
Libbey, Edward Drummond
Liébert
Lowenstein, Alfred
Luckenbach, Mrs. Edgar F.
Missing Title
Maass, Herbert H.
Macy, Valentine E. (see also end of folder)
Martin, Ella S.
Mather, Samuel
May, Pierre
Mayer, B. W.
McFadden, George
McIlhenny, John D.
McKinney, Mrs. Price
Mellon, Andrew W.
Meredith, Sir Vincent
Merle & Cie.
Metropolitan Museum of Art
Milliken, Henry O.
Morgan, Anne
Morgan Harjes & Cie.
Morgan, J. Pierpont (John Pierpont)
Morgan Livermore & Co.
Mortimer, Stanley
Muchnic, Charles M.
Missing Title
Nathanson, Mrs. H.
Nielsen, Schick
Oakman, Mrs. J.
Ochs, Adolph S.
P. W. French & Co., Inc.
Pam, Max
Phipps, John S. [illegible]
Pitcairn, Raymond
Pope, John Russell
Réau, Louis
Reid, D. G.
Rey, Anna
Rice, Mrs. Alexander Hamilton (Eleanor E.)
Robinson, Edward G.
Rockefeller, John D., Jr.
Rogers, Henry H.
Rosenbach, A. D.
Rosenbach, A. W.
Rowe, L. Earle (Rhode Island School of Design)
Missing Title
Sachs, Arthur
Sachs, Harry
Sachs, Paul J.
Salomon, William
Samuels, Mitchell
Satinover, Joseph
Schiff, Mortimer L.
Schiffer, Jack W.
Schiffer, Sam
Schinasi, Leon
Schuster, Dick
Scott & Fowles
Severance, John L.
Sieben, J.
Stern, Mrs. Benjamin
Stern, Kenneth Gibson
Sterner, Albert
Stettenheim, I. M.
Steyne, Alan
Stotesbury, Mrs. Edward T.
Stransky, Josef
Straus, Jesse I.
Straus, Lionel F. [illegible]
Straus, Mrs. S. W.
Strauss, Lewis L.
Missing Title
Taft, Charles P.
Taylor, Myron C.
Townsend, James B.
Trumbauer, Horace
Tysen, (Kathleen K.?)
Valentiner, Dr. William R.
Vanderbilt, Mrs. Cornelius
Van Derlip, John R.
Vogue
von Auspitz, Stefan
Missing Title
W. T. Walters & Co.
Wachter, Frank
Walker, A. Stewart
Walters, Henry
Warburg, Felix M.
Wheldon & Wesley
Whiting, F. Allen
Widener, Joseph
Willys, John W.
Wimborne, Lord
Wimpfheimer, Charles A.
Winter, Emil
Witt, Robert
Worcester Art Museum
Young, Howard
Zimmermann, Dr. E. Heinrich
The largest subseries within the Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., records, General Correspondence dates from circa 1913 through 1978 (bulk 1923-1978) and measures 33 linear feet. The general correspondence thoroughly documents the firm's business in its most active New York years when it was directed by Germain Seligman after his father's death in 1923. Although focusing primarily on the business of the New York office, throughout there is scattered correspondence of the Paris office staff, agents, and shippers, particularly René Seligmann, Georges Seligmann, and A. O. Liechti. Also included is the correspondence of Germain Seligman and the firm's employees, partners, and agents such as César de Hauke, Theresa D. Parker, Georges Seligmann, René Seligmann, Clyfford Trevor, and Rolf Hans Waegen. Researchers should note that additional correspondence of Theresa D. Parker is found in the series housing the files of Contemporary American Department (Series 8). Additional correspondence files for Clyfford Trevor (Series 1.10) and Rolf Hans Waegen (Series 1.11) are arranged in their own subseries as well. De Hauke & Co., Inc., Records (Series 9) is arranged in a separate series and also contains extensive correspondence with U.S. and European clients, collectors, dealers, and agents.
The General Correspondence covers a diverse range of the firm's business activities and focuses primarily on client contacts and potential and realized sales and purchases. Included are correspondence with regular and potential clients notifying them of acquisitions that may be of interest; correspondence with both American and European art collectors regarding complicated sales and purchase negotiations; correspondence with American and European agents, dealers, and galleries concerning possible acquisitions, commissions, and sales; correspondence with American and European shippers, insurance companies, and banking agents; and routine correspondence concerning travel plans, research requests, photograph and publication requests, letters of recommendation and introduction, exhibitions, and restoration and authentication of works of art.
(includes a list of paintings she would like to sell)
(includes 1974 correspondence regarding provenance of van Gogh's Irises)
(includes correspondence with Walter Pach)
(lease of Moulton House; see also William B. May Real Estate Co., Inc.)
(papers relating to his death)
(records of routine personal transactions and financial papers)
(re: Italy)
(includes photograph of Electra Waggoner with Victor McLaglan)
(copies of letter sent to various people with surname "Walker")
(includes photograph of statue of Abraham Lincoln with unidentified man standing at right)
(includes photograph of Wolf)
The Museum Correspondence is almost identical in content to the General Correspondence (Series 1.3). But rather than correspondence with individual and private clients, collectors, dealers, agents, and other associates, this series houses Jacques Seligmann & Co.'s correspondence files with art museums and public galleries. Of interest is correspondence regarding the firm's acquisitions, sales and purchase negotiations, overseas shipping arrangements, and provenance documentation and research.
Many of the museums and galleries listed below have corresponding files in Museum Files (Series 2.2), which provide information about the public collections of U.S. and European museums and art galleries.
(includes correspondence with, and photograph of, Edward Wheeler)
Although designated by the firm as Germain Seligman's personal correspondence, the letters, invitations, notes, and memoranda arranged in these files reveal important information about sales, clients, and acquisitions. The files contain numerous notes and inter-office memoranda written by staff while Germain was traveling that discuss important events, visits, and phone calls to the firm. Information about legal affairs, investments, bank accounts and affairs, insurance, travel plans, and social matters may also be found. Numerous invitations and personal notes are scattered throughout the files.
This subseries consists of correspondence and other material that focuses on the legal affairs of the firm. The bulk of the correspondence with the two law firms representing Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., reflect fairly routine legal matters, such as taxes, real estate, investments, corporate filings, license renewals, etc. The remaining files concern specific legal actions or issues, such as asset liquidations, lawsuits, and a partnership with Georges Seligmann. A particularly interesting subseries houses correspondence and other documents associated with the firm's attempts after World War II to recover the stolen artwork and assets of the Paris office and the Seligmann family.
This section of Subseries 1.6 includes correspondence with the New York law firms that represented the gallery in its legal affairs: Rose & Paskus; Benjamin, Galton, & Robbins; and Melvin C. Robbins. The files containing correspondence with the firm of Rose & Paskus, dating from 1924 through 1929, document fairly routine legal matters such as real estate transactions and leases, insurance, taxes, corporate filings, and debt collection. The correspondence with the U.S. law firm of Benjamin, Galton, & Robbins dates from 1938 through 1978 and also concerns routine legal affairs. In this set of correspondence files, however, researchers will also find revealing information about sales, consignments, family legal affairs, a partnership liquidation with Georges Seligmann, and the estate settlement of René Seligmann. The correspondence portrays a close legal and business relationship with Benjamin, Galton, & Robbins. Between 1963 and 1978, Melvin Robbins, formerly of Rose & Paskus, and Benjamin, Galton, & Robbins, handled certain affairs of the firm exclusively; there are two folders of correspondence with Robbins only.
This small section of Subseries 1.6 consists of inventory lists and correspondence concerning the liquidation of the Seligmann's Paris galleries, known then as Jacques Seligmann & Fils, Germain Seligmann & Cie., en Liquidation, Paris. Most of the remaining stock was either returned to family members or became part of the inventory of the New York based Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc.
This small section of Subseries 1.6 includes contracts, agreements, financial statements, and supporting correspondence concerning the legal status and rights of Georges Seligmann, cousin to Germain Seligman. When the Paris firm liquidated its assets in the early 1940s, Georges claimed he owned a share of the stock and desired either commissions or a portion of the sales profits from the Paris inventory. These files document the numerous agreements between Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., and Georges Seligmann following the liquidation of the Paris office and the establishment of the "French Company" (in legal contracts this term was used to designate Jacques Seligmann et Fils and G. Seligman & Cie, S.A., Successors in Liquidation), also known as the "Nouvelle Society.") All materials concern the percentages of Georges's commissions, ownership of particular stock and inventory, and the employment of Georges by the firm. Additional financial information about the inventory, sales, and commissions is arranged in Miscellaneous Financial Notes and Files (Series 7.18).
This section of Subseries 1.6 includes mostly letters to the U.S. State Department and Paris attorneys J. A. Tout, M. Chauveau, M. Besson, François Bazin, and Claude Perles concerning the recovery of family and company financial and art assets either frozen or stolen during World War II. The 1940 correspondence is with the U.S. State Department and concerns the filing of documents and affidavits in order for the State Department to afford protection to the firm's assets in Paris. The remaining files postdate World War II and concern the very complicated recovery of art stolen from the Paris office. Found here are interesting letters regarding the European state of affairs at the time, comments and notations about other dealers, names of individuals associated with the sales of stolen art, and detailed information about works of art belonging to the Seligmann family. The 1952 file also contains an interesting letter that outlines the firm's previous liquidations and family financial settlements. Two files at the end of the subseries provide further information regarding the recovery of specific works of art. They contain detailed lists of assets and relate to the importation into France of artwork from other European countries such as England and Switzerland. Much of the correspondence is in French.
This section of Subseries 1.6 includes correspondence and legal documents concerning the ownership and ensuing lawsuit over a series of Italian frescoes known as The Story of Griselda. The frescoes were originally acquired by the firm in the mid-1930s from Gabriel Dereppe and Ignatio (Ignace) G. Pollak in a very complicated legal agreement. Because the Italian government refused to let the frescoes leave the country, the firm entrusted their care to Mrs. Nanni Carla Politi and entered into a false sales transaction with her. Although Mrs. Politi did not actually buy the frescoes, documentation existed that made the transaction appear legitimate. Mrs. Politi then sold the frescoes to a Mr. Pelosi of Italy and kept the funds. These files document the complex trail and lawsuits surrounding the frescoes.
This subseries contains daily journals that provide two- or three-sentence abstracts of outgoing correspondence for 1959 through 1967. The firm's name for these documents was résumés; the staff of the Archives have renamed them abstracts for clarity.
This subseries includes carbon copies of outgoing correspondence for the years 1965 through 1978. As the firm was usually closed for month of August, most years do not have an August file. From 1975 through 1977 no files exist for July or August.
This subseries consists primarily of correspondence between the New York office and the Paris office and several additional folders of correspondence dating from 1940 to 1953 between Germain Seligman and sales associates César de Hauke, Rolf Hans Waegen, and Theresa D. Parker.
(only one file for 1928)
(no file for August 1939, New York to Paris)
This subseries contains business and scattered personal correspondence of Clyfford Trevor, a modest collector and employee of the firm's New York office. Germain Seligman credited Trevor as a valued associate who helped foster the firm's interest in modern European art. Trevor's family established an art gallery, J. Trevor & Sons, in London in 1896, where Trevor worked before joining the firm of Scott & Fowles. He began his employment in the New York office of Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., in 1924, where he stayed until returning to London in 1948 to work as an independent arts consultant. The majority of the correspondence documents Trevor's business trips to U.S. cities cultivating collectors and museums. Letters detail names of contacts made, recommendations on how to proceed with clients, and other pertinent business matters. Letters written in later years include some of Germain's handwritten notations on commissions for Trevor.
This subseries contains correspondence files of Rolf Hans Waegen, sales associate of the firm and personal friend of Germain Seligman. The correspondence is primarily with European and U.S. clients concerning possible sales and purchases, potential clients, and the availability of artwork for sale either in the United States or abroad. Letters regarding personal matters and social events are also found. Later files concern Waegen's death and the settlement of his estate.
(Supper Dance Invitations)
(Tea Invitations)
(Tea RSVPs)
The files of Theresa D. Parker, sales associate of the firm, provide a chronological record of the company's activities from 1960 to 1972. Termed "diaries" by Parker, they were used as a communication tool between Parker and Germain Seligman, just as Seligman's Inter-Office Memoranda (Series 1.13) were used to provide instructions or information to the firm's staff. The "diaries" provided updates to Seligman on daily events that occurred when he was away from the office on business or vacation. Entries include notes on conversations with European and U.S. clients and may be supplemented by related documentation such as memoranda, telegrams, or correspondence. One folder contains daily diaries written by staff and addressed to Theresa D. Parker while she was away on vacation.
This subseries contains an interesting group of numbered and indexed inter-office memoranda and notes called fiches by the firm. The memoranda and notes are "for the file" notes or instructions directed to staff from Germain Seligman. They contain private information about sales, potential sales, clients, collectors, and collections. Clearly, the notes are not intended for viewing by anyone other than the firm's staff.
Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., maintained extensive files to track important clients and collectors in the art world. The files within this series reflect the wide scope of contacts and collector references maintained by the firm throughout its operating years. The series is further subdivided into several subseries based on type of reference file.
The first and largest subseries, titled Collectors (Series 2.1), traces artwork owned and sold by private American and European collectors and galleries, with descriptions and sale prices noted, present location of works of art, when known, along with photographs of art pieces and occasional physical descriptions and exhibition text. The Museum Files (Series 2.2) reflects a similar function and arrangement as the Collectors (Series 2.1) files but mainly concerns artwork held, donated to, or purchased by major American and European museums.
Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., acted as agents in the sales of several large and important art collections. Files in the Duc d'Arenberg Collection (Series 2.3) document the involvement in the late 1940s of Jacques Seligmann & Co. in the sale of objects from the d'Arenberg family's manuscript collection and the firm's activities in arranging for treatment and eventual sale of a select group of paintings that included Jan Vermeer's Portrait of a Young Girl Antoine Watteau's Marriage Contract and Rembrandt van Rijn's Tobias Healing His Father. The firm also conducted sales for the executors of the Estate of Clarence H. Mackay (Series 2.4) in 1939. As a wealthy American collector of Renaissance art and antiquities, Mackay had amassed a large and impressive collection, but many of the items lacked complete documentation. Seligmann & Co. undertook the task of describing, photographing, and documenting the collection in preparation for its dispersal through gallery sales and auction. The Mortimer L. Schiff Collection (Series 2.5) documents the 1937-1938 sale at Christie's of London auction house that was arranged by Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., to handle the disposition of the vast art collection of American banker Mortimer L. Schiff. The collection consisted of important oil paintings, watercolors, and drawings by Flemish, French, and German masters, English drawings and watercolors, Beauvais tapestries, Gothic and Renaissance sculpture and bronze, Chinese porcelains, Gothic and Renaissance arms and armor, and decorative arts. The Prince of Liechtenstein Collection (Series 2.6) documents the 1953 purchase by Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., of seven Italian marble sculptures from the Prince of Liechtenstein. The sculptures were subsequently sold to the Samuel H. Kress Foundation in 1954.
Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., maintained a variety of records to track the location of important pieces of art as well as background material and addresses of collectors of note. Old Collectors of Interest (Series 2.7) consists of documents that were originally contained in two looseleaf volumes, generally compiled circa 1938-1952, but there are infrequent sales data from earlier dates. The information includes names and addresses of collectors, details of artwork or collections owned by the collectors, along with references to listings or reproduction in art catalogs. Most of this information appears to come directly from the catalogs, but some items record the observations and impressions of Germain Seligman after personally viewing the collection or object. Materials in the Blue Book of Collectors (Series 2.8) were originally contained within a blue-covered looseleaf notebook. Entries list collectors along with their address and occasional details of the artwork they owned. The entries date largely from 1956. Collections Books (Series 2.9) includes four looseleaf notebooks dating from the late 1920s to the mid-1950s that maintained information related to the holdings of art collectors, individual works of art, and negotiations related to the sales or purchases of works of art. The first volume serves as an index to the other three volumes and is arranged by artist and collector or collection. The other three volumes contain memoranda for the record by Germain Seligman, letters and telegrams, lists of works viewed by Seligman along with his opinions about them, and his accounts of conversations held with owners regarding their willingness to sell items. Prospective Clients (Series 2.10) consists of records from five looseleaf binder notebooks. The books contain entries made between the mid-1930s and the mid-1950s by Germain Seligman concerning people he viewed as potential clients, along with notations as to why he viewed them that way. File cards were subsequently made from these files and added to Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., mailing lists. Reserve Notebooks (Series 2.11) consists of records from four spiral notebooks that list client, artwork under consideration, and related material. Entries from the mid-1960s to early 1970s document clients who expressed an interest in a particular work or type of art as well as actual customer requests to reserve a particular work. People of Interest (Series 2.12) consists of additional files maintained on people viewed as potential clients that were largely compiled by Germain Seligman and other staff members during their trips to visit museums, collections, or individual owners or buyers of art. The information centers on American clients, but occasional European customers are also included. The records largely date from 1930 to 1950, with the records regarding Paris and the French provinces dating from 1963 to 1974. European Collectors (Series 2.13) has information similar to that in People of Interest (Series 2.12) but for European and South American regions and in a card file format. The records cover the period from the mid-1930s to the early 1970s.
The Collectors Files series is arranged into the following subseries. More detailed descriptions for each of the subseries follow with a corresponding box and folder inventory.
The files largely consist of photographs of artwork, along with occasional physical description of the item, biographical research regarding the artist and his works, and provenance information. Names of purchasers and dates of sale are frequently found on the back of photographs of the artwork, although multiple photographs may have conflicting information. Occasional correspondence and printed matter and photocopied material (which accounts for the few early dates in the span dates) are also encountered, along with data regarding the collections of the individual owners.
(includes material from P. & D. Colnaghi & Co., Ltd.)
The files largely consist of photographs of artwork, along with occasional physical descriptions of the artwork, biographical research regarding the artist and his works, and provenance information.
not scanned
In 1951 Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., negotiated to sell the private family collection of the Duc d'Arenberg. Collection items under Seligmann's care included nineteen illuminated manuscripts and three paintings: Jan Vermeer's Portrait of a Young Girl, Antoine Watteau's Marriage Contract, and Rembrandt van Rijn's Tobias Healing His Father. This subseries documents the activities undertaken by the firm in carrying out the sale of the collection through correspondence and contracts, along with details of financial and legal actions taken pertaining to the sale and transfer of collection items. The subseries also contains historical information and reference files for items in the collection.
This subseries contains general correspondence detailing the establishment of bank and legal accounts to handle resulting sales and the eventual transfer of the unsold pieces to Fordham University in 1963. Also found are original contracts.
The material in this subseries consists of family history files and numerous reference files for individual works of art and manuscripts.
not scanned
not scanned-duplicates
This subseries consists of lists of recipients for exhibition announcements and catalogs of the sale, as well as a list of known paintings by Vermeer found in Germany.
In 1939 Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., was retained by the Clarence H. Mackay Estate's executors to act as agent for the sale of the collection. Mackay was a wealthy American collector of Renaissance and eighteenth-century decorative arts, tapestries, and arms and armor, and he was a trustee of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. A good portion of his collection was originally acquired through Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., and Mackay had also been a close friend of the firm's partner and associate, Eugene Glaenzer. As many items had no cataloged provenance, Seligmann enlisted the aid of Stephen V. Grancsay, curator of arms and armor at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and Carl Otto von Kienbusch to help with the authentication and cataloging of the collection.
This subseries is further divided into nine sections that consist of various categories of correspondence, reports, financial files, inventory and stock notebooks, lists, printed matter, and photographs. Of special note within the Paris office (Jacques Seligmann & Co.) folder in Alphabetical Correspondence (Series 2.4.3) is a reply letter dated August 17, 1939, from the museum director and conservator of the Bavarian National Museum in Munich, Germany. It bears the swastika seal of the Nazi regime and is addressed to César M. de Hauke. The director cordially thanks de Hauke for information sent to him regarding the Clarence H. Mackay Collection but states that the museum is not interested in purchasing any of the artwork. Also of interest in the same folder is a letter, dated March 16, 1939, written by Germain Seligman to Georges E. Seligmann, François-Gerard Seligman, and César M. de Hauke, announcing his recent appointment as adviser for the Mackay Collection and detailing items in the collection and their importance. Germain further suggests they "start right away" contacting Marshal Hermann Goering, who he believes may be interested in acquiring armor for his collection.
This subseries section contains correspondence concerning advertising, insurance, shipping, and storage matters for the Clarence H. Mackay Collection.
This subseries section contains correspondence of Germain Seligman and Frank L. Polk, attorney for the executors of the Mackay Estate.
The letters in this subseries section primarily concern the announcement of the sale of the Clarence H. Mackay Collection. There are two folders of correspondence with the Metropolitan Museum of Art and Stephen V. Grancsay, curator of arms and armor, regarding purchases from the Mackay Collection for the museum.
This subseries section consists of alphabetically and chronologically arranged internal daily reports and memoranda, mostly written by Germain Seligman recording the activities of the firm.
This subseries section includes invoices, ledgers, and shipping invoices for works of art sold, general expenses, storage, insurance, and shipping.
In this subseries section are inventories and notebooks of the Clarence H. Mackay Collection with brief descriptions and notes about provenance, prices, and stock numbers.
This subseries section includes auction catalogs, exhibition catalogs, and newspaper clippings concerning the Mackay Collection, its significance, and auctions and sales of the collection.
In this subseries section are lists (some handwritten) regarding shipping, insurance, auctions, prices, and other matters.
In this subseries section are black-and-white photographs of artwork in the Clarence H. Mackay Collection.
Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., was contracted by John M. Schiff, son of American banker Mortimer L. Schiff, to handle the disposition of his father's vast collection of artwork. The 1937-1938 sale was arranged through the auction house of Christie's of London, as Germain Seligman believed that the type of artwork in the collection would generate more buyers in Europe than in the United States. The auction was held June 1938. The collection consisted of important oil paintings, watercolors, and drawings by Flemish, French, and German masters, English drawings and watercolors, Beauvais tapestries, Gothic and Renaissance sculpture and bronze, Chinese porcelains, Gothic and Renaissance arms and armor, and decorative arts. Included in the sale were a glazed terracotta, Madonna and Child , by Giovanni della Robbia, and Carlo Crivelli's Portrait. A collection of Italian majolica, not for sale, was lent to the Metropolitan Museum of Art for an exhibition.
This subseries consists of correspondence with Christie's, general correspondence regarding the collection, insurance policies, auction catalogs, clippings, lists, research notes, and photographs.
In 1953, Jacques Seligmann & Co. purchased seven Italian marble sculptures from the Prince of Liechtenstein of Austria. The sculptures were sold to the Samuel H. Kress Foundation in 1954. This series houses correspondence regarding the original purchase, reference materials and photographs of the sculptures, and a draft of the catalog of the collection.
The documents in this subseries were originally contained in two looseleaf volumes, generally compiled circa 1938-1952, but there are infrequent sales data from earlier dates included.
Information in these documents includes the name of the collector, city and street address (when known), artist and title of work, along with occasional artistic assessment and other comments regarding the owner or collection. Also occasionally included was information about the size, medium, references to listings or reproduction in catalogs, records of known sales, and the location where viewed. Most of this information appears to come directly from catalogs, but some represents the recorded observations and impressions of Germain Seligman after he personally viewed the collection or object.
The records in this subseries were originally contained within a blue-covered looseleaf notebook. Entries in the book were a listing of collectors, along with their addresses and occasional details about artworks they owned. The entries date mostly from 1956. Included with the documents is a folder labeled, "This material is from old blue book not yet analyzed, 1/71."
This subseries includes four looseleaf notebooks that maintained information related to the holdings of art collectors, individual works of art, and negotiations related to the sale or purchase of works of art. The first volume serves as an index to the other three volumes and is arranged by artist and collector or collection. The other three volumes contain memoranda for the record by Germain Seligman, letters and telegrams, lists of works viewed Seligman along with his opinions about them and his accounts of conversations with owners regarding their willingness to sell items. Pages in the three volumes are numbered and referred to in the index.
The items within this subseries were originally in five looseleaf binder notebooks. Entries were made by Germain Seligman about people he viewed as potential clients, along with notations as to why he viewed them as such. File cards were then made from these names and subsequently added to Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., mailing lists.
This subseries consists of four spiral notebooks that list the client, artwork under consideration, and related material. The entries document clients who expressed an interest in a particular work or type of art, as well as actual requests to reserve a particular work.
This subseries consists of additional files maintained on people viewed as potential clients that was largely compiled by Germain Seligman and other staff members during their trips to visit museums, collections, or individual owners or buyers of art. The information centers on American clients, but occasional European customers are also included. The records largely date from 1930-1950, with the records regarding Paris and the French provinces dating generally from 1963-1974.
This subseries replicates information in People of Interest (Series 2.12) for European and South American regions, but documents it in a card file format.
This series houses reference and provenance files, correspondence, and catalogs relating to auctions, primarily of individual works of art owned by Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc. Most of the auctions were handled by Christie's between 1957 and 1975, although there are a few files for auctions held at Parke-Bernet. There is also extensive documentation of the 1948 Parke-Bernet auction of the C. S. Wadsworth Trust, a dummy trust set up by the firm to dispose of a portion of its inventory consisting of Renaissance portraits, Old Masters, late-nineteenth- and early-twentieth-century French paintings, and French and British eighteenth-century works. Several drawings and paintings by Pierre Bonnard, Edgar Degas, Pablo Picasso, Auguste Renoir, Georges Seurat, Edouard Vuillard, and other modern artists and masters were included. Although the firm tried to keep the true ownership of the works of art from the public, it was discovered and leaked to the press. Also found in this series are auction catalogs from Christie's, Parke-Bernet, and various auction houses for auctions featuring the firm's works.
This subseries is arranged by name of auction house, date of auction, artist, and work of art. There are also several folders of correspondence with auction houses that follow folders for individual works of art. Two folders of material about miscellaneous works of art from unknown auction houses are placed at the end of the subseries. Files on individual works of art include provenance documentation, research notes, and photographs. Correspondence files with the auction houses also include memoranda, shipping receipts, lists, insurance papers, and photographs.
Throughout its years of operation, Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., held numerous exhibitions in both the Paris and the New York galleries. This series houses the records related to those exhibitions.
Exhibition records deal with the general logistics of exhibition planning and document staff inquiries to collectors or museums about availability of artwork for loans and other exhibition business. Master artists from the Renaissance and from seventeenth- through nineteenth-century France, as well as Impressionist and early modern painters, were all represented in the exhibitions held in Jacques Seligmann & Co. galleries.
Scrapbooks served as a type of archival documentation of some of the exhibitions held in the galleries. Originally part of four large, oversized scrapbooks, the materials include brochures, exhibition text, printed material, and clippings.
Miscellaneous files includes clippings about selected exhibitions, information about competitions and annual shows, correspondence, administrative materials, and shipping materials related to loans of artwork for the exhibitions. A list of exhibitions held by Jacques Seligmann & Co. is also found among the records.
Many of the exhibitions organized by Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., in the early 1930s helped develop Americans' taste for modern art and an interest in modern European painters, such as Juan Gris, Amedeo Modigliani, and Pablo Picasso. This subseries includes an 1936 exhibit of Picasso's works from his Blue and Rose Periods as well as a retrospective of his work. Another major exhibition project was the firm's participation in the 1940 World's Fair. Jacques Seligmann & Co. loaned artwork and antiques to the exhibition titled, Masterpieces of Art,which featured works by seventeenth-, eighteenth-, and nineteenth-century artists, such as Francesco de Goya, El Greco, and Diego Velázquez from the Spanish School. Other artists' works that were represented included Paul Cézanne, Honoré Daumier, Jean-Louis David, Edgar Degas, Eugène Delacroix, Paul Gauguin, Theodore Géricault, Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres, Edouard Manet, Claude Monet, Pierre-Auguste Renoir, Georges Seurat, Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec, and Vincent van Gogh. This subseries includes attendance records, correspondence, memoranda, and minutes of advisory committee meetings, whose director general in charge was Walter Pach. Germain Seligman served on the Exhibition Committee, and another Jacques Seligmann & Co. staff member, Rolf Hans Waegen, served as secretary. Other exhibitions represented in this subseries featured important masters drawings and seventeenth- through nineteenth-century French artists. Also included are exhibitions by emerging American artists. Further information on American contemporary painters can be found in Contemporary American Department (Series 8), the records of a subsidiary department of Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc.
Significant correspondents found in this series include Alfred H. Barr, director of the Museum of Modern Art, and the well-known collector Duncan Phillips. Important lenders to the exhibitions held include the Cleveland Museum of Art; M. Knoedler & Co., Inc.; Metropolitan Museum of Art; Museum of Fine Arts, Boston; Phillips Memorial Gallery; and Wadsworth Atheneum.
There are also correspondence, lists, announcements, printed material such as exhibition catalogs, newspaper clippings, and notes concerning individual exhibitions. Arrangement of the subseries is chronological by year of exhibition and notated by the first date listed for each entry. The span dates at the end of each entry describe the dating of material within the folder.
not scanned
This subseries includes correspondence with clients and museums concerning loans, shipping, and administrative matters, and clippings about exhibitions held. Also found are lists of clients to whom exhibition catalogs were sent and a chronology of exhibitions held at the New York and Paris galleries.
In this subseries are exhibit text, brochures, printed material, and clippings originally housed in large scrapbooks that documented exhibitions held by Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc.
Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., continuously purchased and retained books, articles, and exhibition and sale catalogs for reference use at its galleries. This series consists of Gallery Library Card Catalogs and a Photograph Reference Index for works of art.
Entries for the card catalog were assigned numbers. The library holdings largely consisted of exhibition catalogs, art history and criticism titles, and biographies and monographs on individual artists.
The Photograph Reference Index consists of handwritten and typed records on works of art that generally include date of photograph, stock number, artist, size of work, and publications in which a photograph of the artwork has appeared. Of special interest to researchers will be the notations made on two entries listed under the name, Seligman, G. S., identifying those works of art as looted by the German forces during the occupation of Paris.
At the beginning of the Card Catalog I are four index cards that explain the firm's filing system: books were generally filed under subject and author; exhibitions were filed by country, city, gallery, museum, or subject; private collections were filed under "Collections"; exhibition catalogs of individual collections were filed under the collector's name; auction sales were sometimes listed by subject; the category "Dictionaries" gave listings of general reference works; and "General" listings were books that did not fit other classifications. In Card Catalog II many of the entries reference exhibition or auction catalogs.
This series includes bound and loose stock and inventory catalogs and lists prepared by the New York and Paris offices. Inventory catalogs are arranged by location, inventory number, genre, and ownership for stock in New York and Paris. Although many of the catalogs are complete and in numbered order, others appear to be missing inventory numbers. It was quite common for the firm to remove part of an inventory catalog when an item had been sold and file the sheet in other files in the firm's records. Some of the inventory number sequences overlap due to copies of listings being filed in more than one place. Also found are miscellaneous inventory lists as well as an inventory of the firms photographic negative file of works of art.
This series houses the large and complex financial records of Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc. Although primarily the records of the New York office under the direction of Germain Seligman, a few records of the Paris office are scattered throughout many of the subseries. Most of the financial records of subsidiary companies, such as de Hauke & Co., Inc., and Modern Paintings, Inc., are arranged with the appropriate series housing the records of those companies, except where ledgers and account books share entries for all the companies. Additional receipts, invoices, and other financial documentation are also interspersed throughout Correspondence (Series 1), Auction Files (Series 3), and the Inventory and Stock Files (Series 6).
Quite large and complex, the financial records contain comprehensive documentation of sales and purchases of both the New York and Paris offices. The records include fascinating and revealing information about sales, purchases, provenance, prices, clients, and shared commission sales with other dealers. Several subseries are of particular note. Purchase Receipts/Documentation (Series 7.1) houses a fairly complete set of documentation of the firm's purchases, including the 1937 acquisition of Madame Jacques Doucet's collection of Picassos, which included Les Demoiselles d'Avignon. Price Quote Notebooks (Series 7.3) is also interesting as it documents Germain Seligman's records of "sales calls," including commentary and notes about clients and their collecting interests. Many of the Invoice Books, Account Books and Ledgers (Series 7.8, 7.9, and 7.11, respectively) provide information about individual sales to clients as well as purchases. The earliest Invoice Book dates from 1910 and is from the Paris office; it contains lists of invoices detailing works of art sold to clients such as George Blumenthal, Condé Nast, Henry Walters, and other notable collectors.
This subseries houses receipt files for purchases made by the Paris and New York offices of Jacques Seligmann & Co. Inc., which provide a detailed overview of many of the firm's purchases from 1925 through 1973. The files contain a variety of receipts, invoices, notes, correspondence, bank transfers, and shipping invoices that document purchases, prices, and detailed physical descriptions of artworks, decorative art objects, and antiquities. Found here are important and often fascinating provenance information and documentation of negotiations, commissioned and shared sales, shipping, and banking transfers. For example, the 1937 purchase of Madame Jacques Doucet's collection of Picassos is well documented in these files. Many of the files also note on whose behalf a purchase is being made.
This subseries houses journals that list works of art sent out to clients "on approval" for sale and items received by the firm "on approval" for purchase. Information includes names of clients, such as museums, galleries, dealers, and individuals, titles of artwork or decorative art objects, and stock inventory numbers. Entries also indicate whether the piece was sold or returned, along with date of sale or return. Several of the journals also include name indexes in the front. Black entries appear to indicate items the firm sent out to clients for approval; red entries indicate items the firm received on approval. The last journal in the subseries exclusively lists "on approvals" for Paris and Geneva, 1926-1939 (Jacques Seligmann & Fils, Paris, and Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., Geneva).
(contains scattered earlier entries dating from 1923-1927 in front of book)
(contains scattered earlier entries dating from 1923-1929 in front of book)
(contains scattered earlier entries dating from 1923-1938 in front of book)
(contains scattered earlier entries dating from 1923-1931 in front of book)
(contains scattered earlier entries dating from 1923-1933 in front of book)
(contains scattered earlier entries dating from 1923-1934 in front of book)
(contains scattered earlier entries dating from 1925-1935 in front of book)
(contains scattered earlier entries dating from 1925-1948 in front of book)
This subseries includes three dismantled notebooks of typed and handwritten notes documenting prices quoted to clients for specific works of art. Each notebook records dates and details of conversations, meetings, and correspondence with individual clients. The notebooks are divided into sections based on geographic area and either state, city, or city museum. These internal notes provide rich insight and important information about negotiations and clients' interests. Overall the notebooks document the building of many museum and private art collections within the United States.
This subseries houses consular invoices of the American Consulate General in Paris and Brussels that declare ownership in relation to tariffs and exporting works of art "more than 100 years old." These official government documents detail all works of art exported to the United States (or other countries) by Jacques Seligmann & Co., between 1920 and 1953. They provide important provenance information, such as physical description, (often in great detail), age, from whom acquired, date of acquisition, and assessed market value. They also contain information about shipping. The invoices provide researchers with a perspective of the overall quantity and nature of the firm's purchases and shipments for this period.
This subseries houses notes, memoranda, correspondence, receipts, shipping receipts, insurance documents, scattered catalogs, and other documentation for works of art and antiquities on consignment either to Jacques Seligmann & Co. or from the firm for possible sale. The files contain scattered information about prices, price negotiations, sales, potential clients, commission percentages, exhibition arrangements, and provenance. The first group of files, 1932-1944, represent consignments to the firm and are arranged alphabetically by name of gallery, firm, or individual. The second, smaller group represents consignments from Jacques Seligmann & Co., 1933 to 1950. It is arranged chronologically.
bound notebook
This interesting subseries of financial records provides additional details concerning numerous sales and financial transactions of Jacques Seligmann & Co., in the form of correspondence, notes, and memoranda to clients. Although not all the firm's sales are represented in these files, some very important sales and provenance information are documented in these credit notes. Scattered throughout are also routine notes and correspondence concerning financial transactions other than the sale of artwork, particularly in the bound volumes arranged in the subseries. The bound letterpress volumes were originally filed with Correspondence (Series 1) but were refiled in this subseries because of the similar nature of the documents. Scattered throughout the bound volumes, however, are a few notes and letters that are slightly different in nature. The first bound volume is labeled "Mr. Germain's Private Book" but contains the same type of information as found in the credit notes. The name of the series is based upon the terminology used by Jacques Seligmann & Co. and can be defined as credits back to the firm's various accounts. Many of the notes also detail a "debit" on the same document.
This subseries includes loose general invoices for incidental expenses such as packing, shipping, insuring, restoring, and framing associated with selling a work of art for individual clients and galleries.
These bound volumes have copies of invoices to clients attached. Each includes an alphabetized index of names. Books are missing for the years 1926, January through November 1927, 1929, and January through September 1930. The invoices contained within the books are quite detailed and provide valuable information about sales to individual clients and galleries, purchase prices, commission percentages, and specific titles and descriptions of works of art.
(includes two scattered entries from 1940-1941; sales from the liquidation of Modern Paintings, Inc., are found on page 50)
(appears to overlap with book listed above)
This subseries houses financial account books and journals that cover a wide variety of sales and purchase transactions and other costs associated with sales and purchases. The account books are arranged primarily according to the firm's record system of "credit" and "debit"; a few are organized according to "sales" and "purchases"; others are arranged according to specific genre or office. Within each set, the journals are arranged chronologically. Also found are brouillard, or scratch account books, which appear to contain temporary entries. Although duplicate, complex, and often difficult to read, the account books have valuable information about sales, purchases, consignments, travel, and general expenses. Most of the account books contain client names, dates of purchases and sales, prices, and titles of individual works of art. Some have name indexes.
OV material housed in Box 321
(includes prints to Rico Lebrun)
OV material scanned with Box 318, F5
OV material scanned with Box 318, F7
The daily journal entries in this subseries cover a wide variety of financial transfers and transactions, such as salaries, general expenses, insurance, travels, account transfers, purchases, sales, etc.
This subseries houses various ledgers, including general ledgers of accounts, sales ledgers, general combined ledgers, client account ledgers, and a special ledger for a contract dated July 8, 1940, among Germain Seligman, César M. de Hauke, and Robert M. Levy.
This subseries houses ledgers divided into various accounts for Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., Jacques Seligmann & Fils (Paris company), sales account, loan account, Germain Seligman account, Modern Paintings, Inc., account, suspense account, cash account, commission account, J. P. Morgan account, Fifth Avenue Bank, New York, account, tax account, and additional special client accounts. Of special interest in each ledger is the works of art account, which provides lists of works bought or sold. The accounts documented in the ledgers vary somewhat from year to year. Most of the ledgers have an alphabetized index of the accounts. The last two ledgers from the early to mid-1970s are somewhat different in composition, including not only various account transactions but also more routine accounting data, such as taxes, accounts payable and receivable, salaries, etc. Note that there are no general ledgers for 1942-1943, 1953-1969, or 1972-1973.
In this subseries are two disbound sales ledgers covering 1931-1947 and 1949-1973, arranged alphabetically by name of client and listing each sale. Many sales to museums are listed according to a particular individual associated with the museum. Many entries also note from whom the work was acquired.
This subseries houses general combined ledgers, which list all financial transactions by month. The ledger for 1926-1928 is bound; the others have been disbound for storage. Ledgers for 1929 and 1948 are missing.
The valuable indexed ledger in this subseries lists the accounts for each client and details works of art sold and prices.
This subseries includes audit reports and balance sheets for Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., de Hauke & Co., Inc., and Modern Paintings, Inc.
In this subseries are bank statements and canceled checks for various accounts with the Bank of New York, Bankers Trust Company, Morgan Grenfell & Co., Ltd., and Morgan Guaranty Trust.
This subseries houses federal, state, and city tax returns and supporting documentation.
In this subseries are insurance policies and contracts, record books, and miscellaneous documents related to the firm's stock, shipping, and overall business.
This subseries houses records, receipts, logs, and related correspondence concerning shipping artwork to and from Europe and within the United States.
This small subseries houses financial records of the Paris office. It includes credit notes, invoices, statements, lists, consignment invoices, approval notes, lists of sales, and miscellaneous notes. The files primarily document sales and accounts of the Paris office. Of particular interest is a list of sales to Henry Walters between 1913 and 1917 and a general list of sales between 1926 and 1929, which includes the names of many notable collectors.
This small subseries houses miscellaneous lists, statements, and notes concerning financial matters. A few files concern special accounts for artworks held jointly with other family members, such as Georges Seligmann. There are also two files containing financial information about consignment sales of tapestries with Georges Haardt & Co. Most of the remaining files contain miscellaneous lists and financial information. The folder for "Miscellaneous Lists of Sales and Inventory, 1924-1943" includes inventories of Modern Paintings, Inc. from 1938 and 1940.
This series documents the activities of the Contemporary American Department, a division of Jacques Seligmann & Co. that was established in 1935 to represent young and upcoming American artists. Under the direction of Theresa D. Parker, the department initiated a contemporary American art exhibition program, exposing out-of-town artists to audiences in New York and circulating their work nationwide through loans to other galleries and art institutions.
The department was suspended during World War II but, in the years that followed, resumed its activities with a series of exhibitions featuring work primarily by young artists, many of whom had recently completed military service. Artists sponsored by the department were selected from recommendations made by colleges and art centers and included Kahlil Gibran, Arthur Kraft, Rico Lebrun, and Cleve Gray. Parker continued to operate the department until the late 1970s, when it was closed due to the deteriorating health of Germain Seligman.
This subseries documents many aspects of the department's daily business. Files primarily contain correspondence with artists, galleries, and art institutions and are supplemented by a small number of general subject files that focus on administrative activities, exhibitions, or the department's interest in specific art media. In addition to correspondence, individual files may contain photographs of artists and works of art, financial records, details of exhibitions, shipping and loan records, and printed matter, such as exhibition catalogs and news clippings.
Theresa D. Parker's personal correspondence can be found scattered throughout, in addition to substantial correspondence with several of the artists represented by the department. A portion of the correspondence from the late 1970s concerns the eventual closing of the department.
includes photos of Anliker
(includes photographs of Gray)
includes photo of Kermes
(includes photo of Kraft)
(includes photograph of Lebrun)
(includes photos of O'Sickey)
(includes photographs of Channing and Warshaw and a photograph of Channing with actor Gregory Peck)
(includes interiors of a Contemporary American Department gallery group exhibition)
(includes photos of Anthony J. Lauck)
The address book lists the mailing addresses of clients, lists artists and collectors, and documents business transactions and selling prices of works of art.
This subseries relates to plans for an exhibition of religious art to be held at the New York gallery on behalf of the General Theological Seminary in New York. The exhibition was canceled by the seminary in 1964 due to lack of funds, despite being in the advanced planning stages. Material primarily comprises printed matter relating to religious art and photographs of works of art, with only one folder of correspondence providing a little documentation of plans for the exhibition.
This subseries documents loans from the Contemporary American Department to galleries, museums, and other art institutions, such as the Museum of Modern Art, Dayton Art Institute, Corcoran Gallery of Art, American Academy in Rome, and National Academy of Design. The correspondence files provide detailed documentation of loans, including consignment, approval, and shipping records.
This subseries of financial records includes two account books containing notes on accounts payable and accounts receivable, profits and losses, and commissions; invoices and receipts; and a bound letterpress book of bills from 1947 through 1962.
not scanned due to condition
In the 1920s César M. de Hauke was introduced by René Seligmann to his cousin, Germain Seligman, head of the American branch of Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc. Germain Seligman was so impressed by de Hauke's knowledge, interest, and excellent taste in modern art that he decided to help de Hauke set up a new company that would specialize in selling contemporary European and French art in the United States. This was a business venture that Germain Seligman had long wished to try under the auspices of Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., but other family members, who were silent partners in the firm, had been reluctant to support the proposition since it was outside the areas within which the company had traditionally dealt.
In 1926 Seligman personally financed the fledgling company, first called International Contemporary Art Company, Inc., and appointed César M. de Hauke its head, but even before the legal documents setting up the company were completed, the name was amended and changed to de Hauke & Co., Inc. Although the bulk of the new company's art purchases for stock took place in Paris and London, the majority of its sales occurred in the United States.
Seligman and de Hauke worked out an agreement that allowed de Hauke both to purchase works of art that he could sell privately within the de Hauke & Co. gallery as well as to purchase works of art for Jacques Seligmann & Co. Ownership of paintings was often shared among various dealers, involving complicated commission transactions upon completion of sales. The two businesses were deeply intertwined, as evidenced by the fact that Jacques Seligmann & Co. financial records include a great deal of de Hauke material and many of de Hauke's records are written on Jacques Seligmann & Co. stationery. De Hauke & Co. also shared addresses with Jacques Seligmann & Co. in New York at 3 East Fifty-first Street and in Paris at 9 Rue de la Paix or 57 Rue Saint-Dominique. By 1927, de Hauke had joined Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., as an employee of that firm.
De Hauke worked actively to bring the work of modern French artists to the attention of American buyers, exhibiting works by Pierre Bonnard, Amedeo Modigliani, Odilon Redon, Ker-Xavier Roussel, and Edouard Vuillard. He was equally interested in French School drawings and watercolors, and the scope of his exhibitions also included works by nineteenth-century masters such as Pierre-Auguste Renoir, Paul Cézanne, Edgar Degas, and Georges Seurat. De Hauke was an acknowledged authority on Seurat.
A Perusal of de Hauke & Co. financial records reveals the wide range of its stock, from decorative arts and frames to paintings, sculptures, glassware, ceramics, leather bindings and writing pads, and prints and drawings by some of the most recognizable names in nineteenth- and twentieth-century art. Included in de Hauke & Co.'s inventory were works by notable European artists such as Georges Braque, Paul Cézanne, Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot, Honoré Daumier, Edgar Degas, Raoul Dufy, Constantin Guys, Fernand Léger, Edouard Manet, Henri Matisse, Amedeo Modigliani, Pablo Picasso, Odilon Redon, Vincent van Gogh, and Edouard Vuillard.
Exceptionally well-known works of art, or studies for these works, are listed among the invoices and ledger books: The Palm by Bonnard; a Portrait of Madame Cézanne (Rewald, Paintings of Paul Cézanne: A Catalogue Raisonné, no. 606); a Self-Portrait, and Bathers (Rewald, Paintings of Paul Cézanne, no. 256) by Cézanne; Irises and Le Zouave by van Gogh; and Portrait of Monsieur Choquet by Renoir.
Even during 1929 and beyond, sales appeared to be brisk despite the general economic downturn. Sales were made to private individuals, such as Lillie P. Bliss, Frank Crowninshield, Duncan Phillips, Henry Reinhardt, Edith Wetmore, and Grenville L. Winthrop. Among the galleries that de Hauke dealt with were Bernheim-Jeune, the Downtown Gallery, and M. Knoedler & Co.
The success that de Hauke & Co. demonstrated in sales helped Germain Seligman to convince other family members of the profitability to be found in modern art, and in 1930 he established Modern Paintings, Inc., as the new modern paintings branch of the New York office. This change led to de Hauke's eventual resignation from Jacques Seligmann & Co. in 1931. Legal documents within the series records suggest that the relationship between de Hauke and Seligman had become strained. De Hauke's financial records after 1931 (with the exception of a few miscellaneous items) are not part of the Jacques Seligmann & Co. records.
The relationship between de Hauke and Germain Seligman continued to deteriorate after World War II, as evidenced by an exchange of letters in Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., (Series 9.1.6). Writing from liberated France on November 20, 1944, de Hauke asked Germain Seligman's help in obtaining a visa to return to the United States. In a letter from New York City, dated March 16, 1945, Germain Seligman replied, refusing sponsorship without giving specific reasons but hinting at concerns over de Hauke's role in the selling of company property seized by the German forces during the occupation of Paris.
Researchers may especially wish to note the provenance information that can be gleaned from study of the consular invoices, which established the value and authenticity of artworks. De Hauke documented company sales in many ways, including by name of the purchaser, as a daily transaction, and as a consignment. Much overlapping information on sales and provenance can be found in ledgers, invoices, consignment records, consular invoices, and shipping correspondence, so researchers are advised to look in all of these categories to gain a complete perspective on transactions involving specific works of art, individuals, or institutions.
De Hauke & Co., Inc., kept extensive correspondence files that were broken down into major groupings similar to those of Jacques Seligmann & Co. There are seven separate sections to this subseries. Bernheim-Jeune Correspondence (Series 9.1.1) includes letters, contracts, and business transactions between de Hauke & Co. and Bernheim-Jeune, a leading European modern art dealer in the period between the wars. The two largest sections of this subseries, Domestic Correspondence (Series 9.1.2) and Foreign Correspondence (Series 9.1.3) reflect the efforts of de Hauke to cultivate and maintain international associates and clients. Museum Correspondence (Series 9.1.4) includes correspondence with art institutions and museums. Correspondence between staff of de Hauke & Co. and staff of Jacques Seligmann & Co. can be found in Inter-Office Correspondence (Series 9.1.5) and Jacques Seligmann & Co. (Series 9.1.6). Correspondence with art magazines and publishers of de Hauke & Co. exhibition announcements and advertisements can be found in Publicity (Series 9.1.7)
This subseries consists mainly of typewritten letters with occasional attachments, announcements and invitations, and cablegrams. Correspondence is in French, but the content of the letters appears to reflect the ongoing art dealing transactions between Bernheim-Jeune and de Hauke & Co. Researchers may find particularly interesting a contract that details the 1926 arrangement between de Hauke & Co. and Bernheim-Jeune that entitled de Hauke to serve as its exclusive representative in the United States and Canada. The material is arranged chronologically.
This subseries section includes handwritten and typewritten letters, with occasional attachments and cablegrams, with American clients about works of art, exhibitions, and related art matters.
not scanned
This subseries section includes handwritten and typewritten letters, with occasional attachments and cablegrams, with European clients about works of art, exhibitions, and related art matters.
Cablegrams consist of correspondence between staff of de Hauke & Co., Inc., about art purchases and sales, shipping information, and ongoing business operations. Paris and New York inter-office correspondence consists of letter copies and memoranda between staff and César M. de Hauke while he was on art-buying trips in Europe. Details of daily operations in the New York gallery, client visits and purchases, and information about de Hauke's travel plans are recorded.
This subseries section consists of letters, with occasional attachments and cablegrams. There is correspondence between César M. de Hauke and Germain Seligman and between the staffs of de Hauke & Co., Inc., and Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., about ongoing business, art sales and purchases, clients, and travel plans and arrangements. References are found in the 1940s correspondence to the seizure of Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., property during the German occupation of Paris. There are occasional "veiled" references to works by Pablo Picasso, Vincent van Gogh, and others. The material is arranged chronologically.
The following letters are of special note: 
Memorandum dated June 9, 1941, C. M. de Hauke to Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc. Asks staff at Jacques Seligmann & Co. to create codes for certain words and amounts of money and suggests writing in English to make it harder for others to decipher intercepted mail.
Letter dated September 5, 1941, G. Seligman to C. M. de Hauke. Suggests some of the company's continuing activities concerning art sales during the German occupation of Paris. Reply dated September 7, 1941.
Letter dated March 16, 1945, G. Seligman to C. M. de Hauke. Briefly discusses questions Seligman has about de Hauke's role in selling property of the Paris office of Seligmann & Co., which was seized by Nazis in the summer of 1940, during the occupation of Paris. This letter is in reply to one by de Hauke, dated November 20, 1944, requesting Seligman's assistance as a sponsor for de Hauke's visa application to return to the United States.
The letters in this section of the subseries concern advertisements of upcoming exhibitions in newspapers and magazines. There are exhibition announcements in the form of letters to clients, editors, and others. Some correspondents include Art and Archeology, The Arts magazine, Art Digest, Art News, Chicago Tribune, Kunst and Kuenstler (Berlin), the New York Times, Pantheon magazine, and others.
This subseries includes handwritten notes and typed memos from staff to de Hauke and Germain Seligman and from de Hauke and Seligman to staff, called fiches by both companies. Many are written in French. The content of the messages involves daily activities such as reminders of meetings, detailing of tasks for completion of business, etc. Many of the exchanges between de Hauke and Seligman involve questions about particular artists and their works.
Reid & Lefèvre was an art dealer company located in Glasgow, Scotland, and London, England. The directors of the company were Ernest A. Lefèvre, A. J. McNeill Reid, and D. M. Macdonald. De Hauke & Co., Inc., purchased artwork jointly with this firm, which would show and exhibit the works at its various galleries until the pieces were sold and the profits could then be shared. Painters and artists whose artwork is discussed include André Derain, Henri Matisse, Amedeo Modigliani, Odilon Redon, Georges Seurat, Vincent van Gogh, and Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec.
This small subseries section includes typed letters, occasional postcards, and cablegrams that detail purchased works by various artists.
This small subseries section includes typed letters, occasional postcards, and cablegrams that detail purchased pieces by various artists.
This subseries section includes invoices, statements, and credit notes that detail the financial arrangements between de Hauke & Co., Inc., and other co-owners of the artwork.
This subseries includes correspondence, logbooks, catalogs, lists, printed matter, and miscellaneous material. Exhibition logbooks include two bound volumes that detail the artwork held by de Hauke & Co. The artwork is listed by number, description, assigned insurance value, person loaning the item, shipping case number, return date, and general remarks concerning the loaned work. The logbook titled En dépot identifies items in storage.
This subseries consists of reports, written in French by de Hauke to Seligman, that summarize activities undertaken by de Hauke & Co., Inc., including recommendations for art purchases, price estimates and lists of prospective clients. The names of other dealers such as Bernheim-Jeune, Durand-Ruel, Inc., M. Knoedler & Co., Inc., and Wildenstein & Co., appear in the text.
Handwritten and typed stock lists, which reflect stocks of artwork held by de Hauke & Co., Inc., are found in the Stock Lists folder, along with notes and occasional letters relating to stock. Some of the documents are written in French.
Documents within this subseries include copies of contracts between Germain Seligman and César M. de Hauke that outline terms of employment for de Hauke and specify the controlling interests and rights of the stockholders. Also found is a contract between Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., and Modern Paintings, Inc., which was the entity created to replace de Hauke & Co., Inc. The dissolution of de Hauke & Co., Inc., is discussed in detail through correspondence with Proskauer, Rose & Paskus, attorneys for Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc.
De Hauke sold and consigned works to individuals, galleries, and museums, and he also loaned works to galleries and museums such as the Cleveland Museum of Art, Downtown Gallery, Marie Harriman Gallery, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Museum of Modern Art, and Saint Louis Art Museum for special exhibitions. Complex arrangements with shippers, packers, and customs officials were made through frequent correspondence. De Hauke documented sales in many ways, including by the name of the purchaser, as a daily transaction, and as consignments.
Some names of individuals and organizations that occur in many of the records include James St. L. O'Toole, gallery manager and assistant to de Hauke in New York, who wrote much of the correspondence on de Hauke's behalf, some of which is in French; Tom Grady, director of Modern Paintings, Inc., a Jacques Seligmann & Co. entity, the stock of which was partially owned by de Hauke as well; Alexis Delamare, shipping agent based in Le Havre, France; Lérondelle, packer and shipper in Paris; Hirshbach and Smith, customs agents and brokers in New York; and Germain Seligman, owner and director of Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc. Often de Hauke and Seligman sold on commission works of art owned by Bernheim-Jeune.
This subseries section houses a wide variety of account journals and ledgers including approval journals; bound invoices; a cashbook that includes a listing for a special loan to Germain Seligman; one purchase book; and one indexed sales book listing artwork sold by de Hauke & Co., Inc. Also found are two general ledger books that list financial transactions and expenses by various accounts, including payments to Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., for furniture and installation, general expense accounts, payments to galleries and individuals, and sales of works of art.
This subseries section houses bound and loose invoices, including sales, consignment, and consular invoices and one volume of balance sheets and profit/loss statements. Similar to the invoices arranged in the Financial Files and Shipping Records (Series 7) of Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., the invoices are arranged in bound volumes chronologically and in loose format alphabetically by client. The bound and loose miscellaneous invoices are for sundry expenses. The consignment invoices and other documentation in the file detail works of art on consignment to the Paris office of Jacques Seligmann & Co. or to individual clients. The consular invoices were required by foreign governments for import to the United States, and every work of art had to be listed and declared for customs approval. All of the invoices contain important provenance information.
not scanned
Shipping records within this subseries reflect the high level of sales activity engaged in by de Hauke & Co., Inc., during the late 1920s and early 1930s. The shipping records provide useful documentation of the movement of works of art in Europe and to the United States. Complex arrangements with shippers, packers, and customs officials were arranged through frequent and detailed correspondence.
One file contains miscellaneous credit notes, lists, and other documentation regarding sales and banking transactions.
This small series houses the legal and financial files of the subsidiary company Modern Paintings, Inc., which was established in 1930 to incorporate most of the inventory of the liquidated de Hauke & Co., Inc. The stock consisted primarily of contemporary (late-nineteenth- and early-twentieth-century) European paintings. Modern Paintings, Inc., was not only a subsidiary of Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., but also of Tessa Corp., a joint company established by various Seligmann family members who owned inventory of the Paris company when it was legally dissolved and became a branch office of the New York corporation. Modern Paintings, Inc., was liquidated between 1931 and 1934, and most of the stock became the inventory of Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., or Gersel Corp., although many of the paintings remained jointly owned by family members or César de Hauke.
Found in this series are scattered correspondence and contracts regarding liquidation and shipping. One file of particular interest contains miscellaneous correspondence, notes, invoices, and other documentation of sales and purchases with dealers such as Bernheim-Jeune, Wildenstein & Co., Inc., and others. There are also inventory lists; bound approval journals that list artwork sent out to potential clients on approval for sale and include names of the clients and lists of artwork; two purchases and sales bound ledgers; two bound general ledgers; consignment invoices for artwork on consignment either to or from the company for sale; and miscellaneous financial notes. Also included are a 1930-1932 bound journal containing an indexed and chronological group of credit and invoice notes; a 1926-1930 bound journal/ledger with reports of accounts, balance sheets, and inventory lists that predates Modern Paintings, Inc., and is primarily for de Hauke & Co., Inc.; and bound shipping and insurance logbooks.
Researchers should note that this series houses information concerning several significant purchases, sales, and commission sales of late-nineteenth- and early-twentieth-century European artwork that were handled through Modern Paintings, Inc., rather than the parent company of Jacques Seligmann & Co.
This is a very small series of records of the subsidiary Gersel Corp., which appears to have been in business from the mid-1940s through the late 1960s. The records do not provide any documentation on the establishment or liquidation of the company, but it appears that the company was established to handle the accounts of certain acquisitions and sales that Germain Seligman did not want handled by the main firm, although the firm usually took a commission for the sales. Gersel may have handled artwork acquisitions and sales for which Germain Seligman was the primary owner.
The Personal Papers series documents the private activities of Germain Seligman through subseries that include family and biographical files, writings, records of his private art collection, and details of his military service. Family and Biographical Material (Series 12.1) provides personal information about Germain and others members of the Seligmann family. Private Art Collection (Series 12.2) provides details about the artwork in Seligman's personal collection, while Writings (Series 12.3) features several major books undertaken by him.
This subseries contains personal information about Germain Seligman and the Seligmann family. Material includes photographs of family members, including Jacques and Germain, a photo of Mr. and Mrs. Val Dudensing, and photographs of properties owned by Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., including the Hôtel de Sagan. Correspondence including letters of condolence following the death of Jacques Seligmann. Résumés summarize Seligman's work experience and achievements. There are also travel diaries containing daily lists of routine travel expenses, and immigration documentation.
This subseries documents the content and the administration of Germain Seligman's personal art collection and includes a copy of The Collection of Germain Seligman: Paintings, Drawings, and Works of Art, published in 1979. The bulk of the material consists of reference files to the collection, which typically contain provenance information, notes, printed material, and photographs of works of art. These files can be cross-referenced with the material in the Inventory Notebooks, which duplicate some of the information found in the Collection Reference Files. Researchers should be aware that there is some confusion in the records about what constitutes Notebooks I, II and III. Headings provided in the Container Listing for "Inventory Notebooks" are contradicted by headings found in the folder titled "Lists."
The remainder of the material comprises invoices chronicling sales and purchases of artwork made by Germain and Ethlyne J. Seligman, inventory notebooks, and consignment and loan records. Material documenting the liquidation of the Seligman Estate and inquiries into the disposition of his business archives can also be found here.
Oversized material (4 x-rays) housed in OV sol 460
see also Box 427, F18
see also Box 427, F13
small photograph album
Not scanned
This subseries documents the published and unpublished writings of Germain Seligman and works co-authored with his wife. The subseries includes drafts and published copies of documents, correspondence regarding projects, research notes, and other supporting material including printed material and photographs of works of art. Reviews of some of Seligman's writings can also be found here. Material is organized into four subseries sections.
Records found here document research for, and publication of, four books by Germain Seligman. His 1969 edition, Roger de La Fresnaye, with a Catalogue Raisonné, received awards and was highly lauded by art scholars and curators. This work follows from an earlier 1945 monograph on the artist that Seligman wrote, but the 1969 version added more detailed information about the artist and his works and included many illustrations, of which thirty-two were reproduced in color and hand-mounted as plates in the text. Merchants of Art, 1880-1960: Eighty Years of Professional Collecting, published in 1961, provides a history of Jacques Seligmann & Co., Inc., along with Germain's reminiscences about his father and important collectors and collections that were associated with the firm. The Drawings of Georges Seurat was published in 1947, followed thereafter by the 1952 publication of Oh! Fickle Taste; or, Objectivity in Art, in which Seligman addresses the importance of political and social climates in understanding the evolution of art collecting in the United States.
In addition to general research material, files relating to Roger de La Fresnaye, with a Catalogue Raisonné include correspondence with individuals such as Jean Cocteau, Victor and Jean Hugo, and Simone de La Fresnaye. Notes include documentation of interviews conducted with dealers and friends of de La Fresnaye. Some interviewees Germain consulted include Georges Auric, Suzanne de Balasy, Mme. Philippe Clement, Bernard Dorival, Jean Hugo, Valentine Hugo, Mme. Henry Kapferer, Mme. Klotz, M. Knoedler & Co., Inc., Valentine de Miré, Georges Moos, Mme. E. Nebelthau, and André Dunoyer de Sagonzac. Also found are two working manuscripts of the publication with handwritten notes scattered throughout and an addendum to the catalog in the form of an article published in Revue de L'Art in 1972. An early draft of the same article translated into English is also included here.
Files relating to Merchants of Art begin with a draft of the publication, which is dated 1959 in the preface. This appears to be a later version of the 1955 draft of Our Business Is Their Pleasure (Seligman's original title for the book), which can also be found here. Our Business Is Their Pleasure was apparently translated into French as Le Musée Dispersé, and two working copies of a draft of this manuscript are also included here. The records also contain correspondence relating to publication and rights to reproduction of artwork, information that Seligman compiled about significant art collections, and reviews upon publication of the book. Two glass negatives and a photographic print of a painting of Jacques Seligmann (used as an illustration for Merchants of Art) can be found in Family and Biographical Material (Series 12.1).
copies
This subseries includes published and unpublished articles by Germain Seligman as well as supporting material such as correspondence, research material, printed material, and photographs of works of art. Arrangement is alphabetical by title of article, thereafter by subject. Material within folders is chronological.
This subseries includes notes and related research material for a lecture on paintings of the Netherlands and observations on collecting that were possibly delivered as a lecture. Arrangement is alphabetical by subject. Materials within folders is chronological.
In this subseries are copies of published articles and related research material that Germain Seligman co-authored with his wife, Ethlyne J. Seligman.
Documents in this subseries include certificates of award and war service records, along with correspondence regarding Germain's various awards for distinguished service. Also included are applications and correspondence with the U.S. War Department, as well as with the French General Consulate, regarding Germain's application for a military commission in the United States Armed Forces during World War II.
Records in this subseries chronicle Germain Seligman's personal financial affairs and include records of taxes and investments. Correspondence with a Madrid bank in 1945-1957 includes documentation of frozen assets that Germain eventually liquidated.
Material found here relates primarily to research projects undertaken by Ethlyne J. Seligman for Germain Seligman or on her own behalf. Projects include the art of Jacques-Louis David, the cloisters of Chartreuse in Paris, a portrait of Henri II, and pre-Columbian art and culture. The subseries also contains a notebook entitled "Library Catalog," but it is not clear if the notebook refers to Seligman's personal library or to another collection. An incomplete copy of the volume L'Art du Dix-Huitième Siècle can also be found here.
The records of California gallery James Vigeveno Galleries measure 2.9 linear feet and date from 1940 to 1975. The collection comprises sales records consisting of photograph albums, negatives, and card files; printed materials containing exhibition announcements and catalogs, and scrapbooks documenting exhibitions held at the gallery; and two photographic portraits of Vigeveno.
The series contains 41 photograph albums of paintings sold through the gallery, accompanied by a full content list of artist names along with the titles of artwork in chronological order. Also included are slides, transparencies, and 169 negatives of the French and European modernist paintings that were sold by the Vigeveno Galleries during its years of operation. These negatives are accompanied by a full list of artwork and artist names in alphabetical order.
Other sales records consist of two sets of index cards. The first set is arranged by artist name along with names of galleries or collectors. The second set is arranged by gallery or collector name along with the name of the artwork sold. None of the records in the series note any pricing information.
Series consists of a complete set of chronologically arranged announcements and catalogs for exhibitions held at the James Vigeveno Galleries, and three scrapbooks containing clippings of articles about exhibitions held from 1940 to 1956. The series also includes a chronological list of the gallery's exhibitions.
Series consists of two photographic portraits of the gallery owner, James Vigeveno.
Letters, 1887-1935, a scrapbook, 1925-1951, clippings, art works, and photographs, 1883-1957.
REEL 3828: A photograph by Dr. Charles Putnam of James sitting on his father's (psychologist William James) lap, ca. 1886.
REEL 4392: Twelve letters, from James to his brother Henry and his parents, 1887-1935, and a letter from Abbott Handerson Thayer regarding a pair of boots James ordered, 1904; a scrapbook containing clippings, 1925-1951, an exhibition catalog, 1929, and photographs of James, his brother Alec (Alexander Robertson), and his works of art; 4 clippings, undated and 1950; 2 self-portrait sketches, a portrait sketch of a woman, and a drawing of James by Jane deGlehn; photographs of James, his family, including one of an obscured pose by his uncle Henry James, his friends, including Langdon Warner, 1883-1957, and Elizabeth Boott Duveneck; photographs of portrait paintings of James' ancestors, including Catherine Barber James, Marcia Ames James, William James of Albany, and Reverend William James; and 23 photographs of James' works of art.
The Jamison Thomas Gallery records measure 27.2 linear feet and 0.001 GB and date from 1940-2000, with the bulk of the records dating from 1980-1995, reflecting the years the Gallery operated in Portland Oregon. About 1/2 of the records consist of artists' files of artists represented by the gallery and artists of interest. Also found are administrative records, client and collector files, financial and legal records, exhibition files, and publicity files.
Among those represented in the artists' files are Robert Gilkerson, Gregory Grenon, Dan May, Jon Serl, Rick Bartow, Mark Bulwinkle, Jay Backstrand, Stuart Buehler, Mark Calderon, Baba Wague Diakite, and Gus Van Sant.
Administrative records concern the founding and everyday business of Jamison Thomas Gallery. Materials include clippings, catalogs, general correspondence and mailing lists, notebooks, photographs, awards and recognitions, William Jamison's desk files, and membership files from various commissions and councils. Also included are files relating to events held at the gallery, including gallery rental fees, correspondence and invitation lists, and event programs.
Client and collector files document business transactions between the Jamison Thomas Gallery and various clients, collectors, and customers regarding the purchase of artwork, the transfer of artworks between locations for the purpose of consignment, or loans for exhibitions. Materials include loan and consignment agreement forms, purchase receipts and invoices, inquiries, photographs, and shipping notifications.
Correspondence and business agreements with other galleries, museums, and schools. Included within this subseries are guilds and artist representatives, craft collecting organizations, and stores. The majority of files consist of correspondence received by the gallery, including exhibition cards and announcements. Also included are loan and consignment agreements, sales invoices for the gallery and for other organizations, and purchase documentation.
Correspondence and payment records with individual customers, curators, consultants, and collectors that frequented the gallery.
The gallery's clients also included corporations who purchased or borrowed artworks for display in business spaces and exhibitions. Arranged here are correspondence, agreements, shipping notifications, and invoices. Notable corporate clients include Microsoft, Security Pacific Bank, and U.S. West Cellular.
Found here are stock inventory records, sales records including daily sales logs, and general operational financial and legal files.
Lists and correspondence about artworks at the gallery documenting the location of artworks, receipt of artworks, and potential sales or returns. Included here are inventory lists from the Jamison/Thomas Gallery of New York City, which opened in 1986 and was later named the Jeffrey Thomas Gallery. Along with some correspondence, these files document the transfer of artworks between the two gallery spaces.
Files include correspondence and records documenting the general sale of artworks to clients or galleries. Materials are comprised of daily sales logs, commissions and accounts payable reports, ledgers and receipt books.
Financial and legal materials pertaining to the everyday business operations of the gallery, including leases, contracts, banking materials, licenses, and tax forms.
Includes 1 floppy disk [JT Gallery, QBPRO B/U]
(Transfer not possible)
Exhibition files document exhibitions held at the Jamison Thomas Gallery, as well as art fairs, expositions, and festivals in which the gallery participated. Records are comprised of research and correspondence files for various exhibitions and include consignment and loan agreements, shipping notifications, purchase and sales receipts, clippings, photographs, and exhibition applications and forms.
Publicity files consist of correspondence between the gallery and various magazines, periodicals, and newsletters. Most of the correspondence are requests for advertising, with mock-ups and layouts of ads for exhibitions and general gallery advertisements. Also found here are press releases and articles about the gallery and its shows.
Includes 4 sound cassettes.
The artists' files represent the bulk of the records and were created by the gallery to keep track of artists whose work they exhibited and/or were of interest. Among those represented in the series are Robert Gilkerson, Gregory Grenon, Dan May, Jon Serl, Rick Bartow, Mark Bulwinkle, Jay Backstrand, Stuart Buehler, Mark Calderon, Baba Wague Diakite, and Gus Van Sant. Materials included in the artists' files are correspondence, photographs of artwork, sales records, payments to artists, articles, talks, price lists, photographic prints, slides, exhibition files, and printed materials. Due to the nature of the material as reference files, some of the artists' files predate the years that Jamison Thomas Gallery was open.
The papers of abstract expressionist painter and playwright Paul Jenkins measure 11.1 linear feet and date from circa 1915 to 2010. Jenkins's career in New York and Paris is documented through biographical material, family papers, correspondence, writings, personal business records, printed material, photographs of Jenkins in his studio and at various events, and original artwork by Jenkins and others.
Biographical material and family papers consist of awards and certificates, calendars, marriage, divorce, and estate papers, and military service records. Also included are family papers and a scrapbook belonging to Jenkins's aunt, Louise Jenkins.
Correspondence, which makes up the bulk of the collection, is with family, friends, and fellow artists, including Alice Baber, Norman Bluhm, Willem de Kooning, and Lee Krasner Pollock, as well as art organizations, schools, museums, galleries, and gallery owners, such as the Art Students League of New York, New York University, Museum of Modern Art, Martha Jackson Gallery, Zoe Dusanne, and Peggy Guggenheim.
Writings includes scattered writings by Paul Jenkins, two of his travel diaries, and the guest book for an exhibition in Tokyo. Also found are a copy of Lili Krahmer Verame's China travel diary and the writings and research materials of others.
Personal business records consist of financial records, lease documents, price lists, travel documents, and papers regarding Jenkins's rental property. Also included are a file on the New York University medal designed by Jenkins and a file concerning a Karl Prantl statue.
Printed material consists of event programs, newsletters, bulletins, member reports, press releases, art exhibition announcements and catalogs, concert and theater announcements and programs, news and magazine clippings, and obituaries and memorial announcements.
Artwork contains miscellaneous sketches and collages by Paul Jenkins. Additional artworks include sketches, watercolors, and prints by other artists, as well as 8 oversize mixed media sketches by Frank Prince of Jenkins's Meditation Mandala Sundial sculptures.
Photographs of Paul Jenkins depict him in his studio, with family and friends, and at events. Photographs of family and friends include Esther Ebenhoe Jenkins, Alice Baber Jenkins, Norman Bluhm, Thomas Erma, Françoise Gilot, Matsumi "Mike," Carole, and Bunshi Paul Kanemitsu, and Frank Prince.
This series contains biographical material documenting Jenkins's life and career, including awards and certificates, calendars, marriage, divorce, and estate papers, and military service records. Also found are family papers and a scrapbook belonging to Jenkins's aunt, Louise Jenkins.
Correspondence is with family, friends, fellow artists, art organizations, schools, museums, galleries, and gallery owners. Also found are copies of Jenkins's outgoing correspondence.
Of note is correspondence with friends and fellow artists, including Alice Baber, Norman Bluhm, Willem de Kooning, and Lee Krasner Pollock, as well as art organizations, schools, museums, galleries, and gallery owners, such as the Art Students League of New York, New York University, Museum of Modern Art, Martha Jackson Gallery, Zoe Dusanne, and Peggy Guggenheim.
(Includes Anouk Aimée)
(Includes Jean Attali)
(Includes Will Barnet)
(Includes Pierre Bernard, Edward Betts)
(Includes François Boisrond, Stanley Boxer)
(Includes Paul Brach)
(Includes Alice Cahana, Lawrence "Larry" Calcagno, Joseph and Jean (Erdman) Campbell, Truman Capote, Walter Chappell)
(Includes Oscar Chelimsky)
(Includes William Clift)
(Includes Philip C. Curtis)
(Includes Alan and Bili Davie, Avel De Knight)
(Includes Pierre Demarne, Enrico Donati)
(Includes Paul Emsley, John Entenza)
(Includes Jean Fanchette, Paul Feiler)
(Includes Milton S. Fox)
(Includes Sideo Fromboluti)
(Includes Helen Gee)
(Includes Peggy Guggenheim)
(Includes Pehr Hallsten, James Harithas)
(Includes Maria Cooper Janis, Allen Jones)
(Includes E. J. Kahn Jr.)
(Includes Joseph P. Kennedy, Jean Kennedy Smith)
(Includes Frank Lobdell)
(Includes Charles Marq, Gregory Masurovsky, Paul and Linda McCartney)
(Includes Bengt Olson)
(Includes Eduardo Paolozzi)
(Includes Lee (Krasner) Pollock)
(Includes Herbert Read)
(Includes Roger and Karen Reynolds, Alain Robbe-Grillet, David Rockefeller)
(Includes Ole and Helen Sarvig)
(Includes Jean Seberg, George Segal, Rena Segal)
(Includes Peter Selz, Harry Shunk)
(Includes James Johnson Sweeney [Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum])
(Includes Edgar Tafel, Liliane Thorn-Petit)
(Includes Kenneth E. Tyler)
(Includes Michel Valette, Bernar Venet, Esteban and Harriet Vicente, Peter and Deborah (Kerr) Viertel, Jean-Claude Villain)
(Includes Jenny Bell Whyte, Hermann Warner Williams, Jr.)
(Includes Jan Yoors, Jiro Yoshihara)
(4 folders)
This series consists of miscellaneous writings by Paul Jenkins, two of his travel diaries, and the guest book for an exhibition of his work in Tokyo. Also found are a copy of Lili Krahmer Verame's China travel diary and the writings and research materials of others, including Simone Benmussa, Peter Brook, André Bruyère, Kenneth B. Sawyer, Frank Anderson Trapp, André Verdet, and Paul Veyne.
This series contains bills, receipts, check registers, lists of expenses, lease documents, price lists, travel documents, taxes, and papers regarding Jenkins's rental property. Also included are a file on the New York University medal designed by Jenkins and a file concerning a Karl Prantl statue.
(Includes correspondence with Lynd Ward and photographs from God's Man)
(Includes correspondence and photographs regarding Karl Prantl statue)
Printed material event programs, guest lists, newsletters, bulletins, member reports, press releases, art exhibition announcements, and catalogs, concert and theater announcements and programs, miscellaneous materials regarding theater, college course announcements, news and magazine clippings, and obituaries and memorial announcements. Material primarily documents Jenkins's career as an artist and playwright.
This series contains miscellaneous sketches and collages by Paul Jenkins. Also found are are sketches, watercolors, and prints by other artists, such as Norman Bluhm, Denis Bowen, Thomas Erma, Pehr Hallsten, Matsumi "Mike" Kanemitsu, Sam Kaner, N. Hayden Stubbing, Yoshito Takahashi, Gérard Thalmann, André Verdet, and Jan Yoors, as well as 8 oversize mixed media sketches by Frank Prince of Jenkins's Meditation Mandala Sundial sculptures.
(Includes artwork by Norman Bluhm, Pehr Hallsten, Matsumi "Mike" Kanemitsu, Sam Kaner, N. Hayden Stubbing, Yoshito Takahashi, Gérard Thalmann, Jan Yoors)
(8 mixed media sketches by Frank Prince for Meditation Mandala Sundial)
Photographs depict Paul Jenkins in his studio, with family and friends, at an exhibition opening, at a ceremony at the National Museum of Wales, and sitting on a panel at the D.H. Lawrence Festival. Also found is a file on Piet Mondrian's exhibit, The Wall Works, and slides of André Bruyère and others.
Of note are photographs of family and friends, including Esther Ebenhoe Jenkins, Alice Baber Jenkins, Karel Appel, Jean-Louis Barrault, Norman Bluhm, Stanley Boxer, Richard Burton, David Douglas Duncan, Zoe Dusanne, Thomas Erma, Ava Gardner, Françoise Gilot, Matsumi "Mike," Carole, and Bunshi Paul Kanemitsu, Grace Kelly, Georges Mathieu, Silvia Monfort, Philip Pavia, Frank Prince, Pierre Restany, Jean-Paul Riopelle, Alan Schneider, John Steinbeck, Lee Strasberg, Mark Tobey, and Jan Yoors.
(Includes photographs with Jean-Louis Barrault, Matsumi "Mike" Kanemitsu, Philip Pavia)
(Includes photographs with Richard Burton, photographs of donated bronze head of Dylan Thomas by David Slivka and Ibram Lassaw)
(Includes photograph with John Steinbeck)
(Includes 3 35-mm color slides, 3 photographs, and 3 color ektachromes)
(Includes photographs of Karel Appel, Stanley Boxer, David Douglas Duncan, Zoe Dusanne, Ava Gardner)
(Includes photographs of Grace Kelly, Georges Mathieu, Silvia Monfort, Pierre Restany, Jean-Paul Riopelle, Alan Schneider, Lee Strasberg, Mark Tobey, Jan Yoors)
REEL 1467: Drawings, sketches, renderings, and designs, 1916-1976, for the following commissions: Aerospace Rescue and Recovery Service, Brooklyn Central Library, the Finance Building of Harrisburg, Pa., and the Jefferson Memorial in St. Louis, Missouri.
REELS 3321-3339: Biographical material; writings and notes; correspondence, 1920-1978, (4 ft.), including letters from Daniel Chester French, Walker Hancock, Anna Hyatt Huntington, Henry Kreis, and Carl Milles; project files, 1912-1977 (8 ft.), containing correspondence, financial records, printed material and photographs related to Jennewein's commissioned work; photographs, 1915-1974, of Jennewein (1 by Alice Choates, 1915), his home and studio, his work, work by others, and art-related events; art work, 1913-1978, including sketches, twenty sketchbooks, and etchings; printed material, including clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, supply catalogs, newsletters, brochures, and reports, and a book C. PAUL JENNEWEIN (1950).
The papers of arts administrator Dorothy Hay Jensen measure 0.2 linear feet and date from circa 1933 to 1991. Relating to Jensen's work as supervisor of the WPA art projects in Maine and her work on the Index of American Design is a sketch, correspondence, a notebook and notes, photographs, and printed material.
Artwork consists of an unsigned drawing of a rocking chair. While the bulk of Jensen's correspondence is from the National Gallery of Art's curator for the Index of American Design, there are also scattered letters from friends. A notebook contains a working list for the Index of American Design, as well as annotations and clippings. Photographs are of quilts, paintings, woodcarvings, and stencils by Moses Eaton. Printed materials include newspaper and magazine clippings.
The papers of photographer and puppeteer Ida Jervis measure 2.6 linear feet and date from 1951 to 1996. Found are files concerning Washington D.C. area artists, collectors, exhibitions, festivals, institutions and museums.
Files may include printed material, photographs, biographical material, and correspondence. Additionally, three scrapbooks contain photographs and clippings from Jervis's career as a photographer and writer for local Washington, D.C. newspapers.
The bulk of Ida Jervis's files concern artists, arts organizations, collectors, exhibitions, festivals, institutions and museums in and around Washington, D.C. Files may contain printed material, photographs, biographical material, and correspondence. Of note are files kept on Samuel Bookatz, Hadassah Art Collectors Show, Israel Room at the Kennedy Center, Jack Perlmutter, Prentiss Taylor, and Alma Thomas.
Three scrapbooks date from the 1960s to the 1970s and include clippings and photographs relating to Jervis's articles for The Alexandria Gazette, The Jewish Week, and The Arlington and Alexandria Globe, and concerning her puppetry activities.
Correspondence, 1898-1965, including letters from Daniel Chester French and Norman Rockwell; scrapbooks of reviews, 1901-1911; printed material, 1901-1984, including exhibition catalogs and clippings; a ledger of sales and inventory of paintings, 1897-1934; photographs, 1896-? of Johansen, MacLane and their work; and 12 unsigned sketches.
This microfilm collection documents African American artist Joshua Johnson's formal emancipation from slavery on July 15, 1782. The manumission is recorded in pages 298-300 of a volume of Baltimore County Chattel Records, 1773-1788.
The microfilmed Katharine Livingston Bayard Johnson papers contain correspondence, photographs, sketches, a scrapbook, and printed material. Much of the collection is material sent to family members in the United States from Johnson in France. A family genealogy was compiled by Robert Bayard Severy, Johnson's great-nephew.
Microfilmed on Reels 573-577 are correspondence; 11 sketchbooks; records of books read by Johnson; and miscellany, including a genealogy of the Bayard family prepared by Robert Severy (1976). Materials microfilmed on Reels 1079-1080 include one letter from Johnson to William Bellamy (1891), and a scrapbook collected by Johnson containing sketches by Anna Cabot Lowell Quincy; etchings by A.W. Warren; pressed flowers; and photographs, including several tintypes (circa 1868-1874) of Johnson, friends and relatives. Microfilmed on Reel 3471 are a photograph of a self-portrait of Johnson and an exhibition catalog (1898).
The papers of Robert P. Johnston measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1947 to 1971. The papers consist of material compiled by Johnston relating to ceramicist and sculptor William Ellisworth Artis and painter Hale Woodruff. Also included is one letter to Johnston from Karl Knaths.
Artis material includes copies of letters to Artis, 1947-1970, from museums, universities, foundations and others regarding lending his work, awarding of prizes or fellowships and other topics; Johnston's correspondence with Artis regarding Johnston's research on Artis; writings by Johnston on Artis; and printed material. Woodruff material includes copies of letters from Woodruff to Johnston, 1971; a copy of Woodruff's diagram of panel no. 6 of his mural for the Atlanta University Library, and "identifying individual famous negro artists portrayed in the mural panel;" an issue of Raven New York, June 1, 1971, with an article on Woodruff; an exhibition catalog of an exhibit of Woodruff's work held at NYU, May 15-June 8, 1967; and Woodruff's vitae, 1971.
The papers of Robert P. Johnson measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1947 to 1971. The papers consist of material compiled by Johnston relating to ceramicist and sculptor William Ellisworth Artis and painter Hale Woodruff. Also included is one letter to Johnston from Karl Knaths.
Artis material includes copies of letters to Artis, 1947-1970, from museums, universities, foundations and others regarding lending his work, awarding of prizes or fellowships and other topics; Johnston's correspondence with Artis regarding Johnston's research on Artis; writings by Johnston on Artis; and printed material. Woodruff material includes copies of letters from Woodruff to Johnston, 1971; a copy of Woodruff's diagram of panel no. 6 of his mural for the Atlanta University Library, and "identifying individual famous negro artists portrayed in the mural panel; an issue of Raven New York, June 1, 1971, with an article on Woodruff; an exhibition catalog of an exhibit of Woodruff's work held at NYU, May 15-June 8, 1967; and Woodruff's vitae, 1971.
Correspondence received by Johnson at the time he was on the staff of the Century Magazine, including c. 300 letters, arranged chronologically, from Harrison S. Morris, 18 letters from Louis M. De Monvel Boutet, and a handwritten autobiographical account, and letters and cards, 1882-1928, written by Timothy Cole.
The scattered papers of jeweler and educator Ruth Barker Johnston measure 0.2 linear feet, date from 1940 to 1948, and relate to Johnston's work teaching metal work courses to wounded United States soldiers during and after World War II. Found are letters, an article written by Johnston, printed material, and project files for the American Red Cross Training Corps and the Forest Glen Convalescent Section at Walter Reed General Hospital.
Generally, correspondence relates to the acquisition of raw material for jewelry making and includes letters from Margaret Crower, Handy and Harmon, Edward Rowan, and Emmy Sommer. The bulk of the collection consists of two project files containing administrative and planning information, correspondence, financial records, lists and notes, and printed material relating to an American Red Cross Training Corps course (1948) and the Forest Glen Convalescent Section of Walter Reed General Hospital metalwork class (1944). Also found is an article written by Johnston concerning work with wounded G.I.'s for the Skidmore alumni bulletin. Printed material consists of a clipping and an exhibition announcement on metalwork.
This microfilm collection consists of photographs of sculptures created by African American artist Sargent Johnson for the Federal Art Project.
Records documenting John Wanamaker's import of French painting from Parisian salons and artists to sell in his store, to keep for his private collection and to keep for his store collection. Also included is a photograph album of Rodman Wanamaker's silver collection. Included are: correspondence; customs papers; purchase and sale records; preview invitiations; inventories of works purchased for the store's collection; inventories of Wanamaker's private collection; artist files containing lists of Colin Campbell Cooper's works, photographs and clippings relating to Paul W. Bartlett's paintings, autographed photographs of Frederick Frieseke's painting, and files on Mihaly Munkacsy and Pierre Fritel. Total: 1.5 linear feet.
The papers of African American painter William H. Johnson date from 1922 to 1971, with the bulk of the material dating from 1926 to 1956, and measure 1.5 linear feet. The collection documents Johnson's career as an artist in New York and in Europe and his marriage to textile artist Holcha Krake through scattered biographical material, including eight letters regarding the sale and exhibition of his work. Also found are exhibition catalogs, news clippings, other printed material, and photographs of Johnson, Krake, and their artwork. One scrapbook contains news clippings, letters, and additional photographs. Another scrapbook contains travel postcards. Also found are a few scattered records and research notes compiled by the Harmon Foundation regarding William H. Johnson.
Scattered biographical material includes biographical sketches, a marriage certificate, award certificates from the National Academy of Design, lists of artwork, and the guestbook from Johnson's 1941 exhibition at the Alma Reed Gallery. Also found are eight letters regarding the sale and exhibition of his work, including a letter from Langston Hughes and two letters from Alonzo Aden of the Barnett Aden Gallery.
Printed material consists of exhibition catalogs, U.S. and foreign news clippings, and other materials, primarily published by the Harmon Foundation regarding African American art. Photographs are of Johnson, Johnson with Krake in their studio, Johnson with friends in Provincetown, Massachusetts, and of Johnson's artwork.
The collection includes two scrapbooks, one containing news clippings, exhibition materials, letters from Charles Hawthorne, Edith Halpert, Karl Nierendorf, and others, and photographs of Johnson and his artwork. Additional items from the scrapbook may have became detached at an earlier date and included among the material in other series. The second scrapbook contains Johnson's postcard collection from his travels in Europe.
Also found are scattered records and research material of the Harmon Foundation regarding William H. Johnson consisting of exhibition panels displaying original photographs of Johnson and his artwork, as well as translations and notes concerning the foreign news clippings found in the William H. Johnson papers.
Scattered biographical material about William H. Johnson and his wife Holcha Krake include several biographical sketches and chronologies of Johnson's life and one biographical sketch of Holcha Krake. Also found is their marriage certificate, eight National Academy of Design award certificates for Johnson's artwork, lists of his artwork, scattered receipts, and addresses written on slips of paper. Also found here is the guestbook for Johnson's show at the Alma Reed Gallery in 1941.
There are eight letters filed in this series, including a letter verifying Johnson was a student at the National Academy of Design, one letter to Johnson from Langston Hughes, two letters from the Barnett Aden Gallery regarding the sale of his work, a letter from the American Minister in Stockholm, a fan letter, a letter to Holcha Krake (in Norwegian) from a friend, and a draft of a letter from Johnson to Mr. Woodruff regarding the sale of a painting. Also found are three postcards sent to Johnson and Krake. Additional letters are found in one of Johnson's scrapbooks.
Printed Material documents William H. Johnson's career as an artist in both the United States and Europe. Included are a collection of magazine and newspaper clippings compiled by Johnson as resource material for his paintings. These clippings consist of advertisements and articles on current events. Also found are exhibition catalogs for solo shows, group shows, and joint shows of Johnson and Holcha Krake's artwork. Many of these catalogs are for exhibitions of artwork by African American artists at the Harmon Foundation. Numerous news clippings found in this series provide information about Johnson, Krake, their artwork, and exhibitions. Included are clippings from the United States, Norway, Sweden, and Denmark. Also found here are two brochures on African American artists published by the Harmon Foundation.
Researchers should note that some of these foreign clippings were partially translated by the Harmon Foundation and are found in their records in Series 5.
A small number of photographs include two portraits of William H. Johnson, a photograph of Johnson painting outdoors near Chartres Cathedral, and a photograph of Johnson with his wife Holcha Krake in their studio. Also found are two photographs of Johnson with groups of unidentified people, believed to be students at Charles Hawthorne's summer school in Provincetown, Massachusetts. Additional photographs include a portrait of Mr. and Mrs. David Harriton, four photographs of unidentified places in Europe, Photostats of artwork by Johnson, and a Photostat of a drawing by Holcha Krake for her Bolsershol Tapestry. Additional photographs of Johnson are found in his scrapbook.
This series contains two scrapbooks created by William H. Johnson. One scrapbook consists of biographical documents regarding his career as an artist. Included are news clippings, event announcements, photographs of his artwork, and one award certificate from 1942. This scrapbook also contains photographs, including several portraits of Johnson, Johnson at exhibitions of his work, and several photographs from the 1920s of Johnson at the beach, with friends, and in art class. Also found are letters sent to Johnson, including a 1927 letter from his former teacher Charles Hawthorne, letters from the Harmon Foundation, gallery owner Karl Nierendorf, Reinhardt Galleries, the Works Progress Administration (WPA), Edith Halpert of Downtown Galleries, and other letters of appreciation. Additional items from the scrapbook may have became detached and removed at an earlier date and may be included among other files within the papers.
This series also includes a scrapbook containing postcards collected by Johnson during his travels in Europe.
Research materials created by the Harmon Foundation regarding William H. Johnson include seven exhibition panels about Johnson that have original photographs of Johnson and his artwork attached. Also found are reference documents created while researching the news clippings in the William H. Johnson papers that are from Denmark, Norway, and Sweden. Included are partial translations of the news clippings and photocopies of clippings with annotations regarding date and name of the newspaper. Also included is a list of possible foreign newspapers in which these clippings were found. The original news clippings are located in Series 3: Printed Material.
Transcripts of interviews conducted by John Jones for a research project sponsored by the American Council of Learned Societies. Interviews are with American artists Rudolf Arnheim, George Cohen, Helen Frankenthaler, Adolph Gottlieb, Robert Indiana, Roy Lichtenstein, Richard Lindner, Sheldon Machlin, Robert Motherwell, Claes Oldenburg, Man Ray, James Rosenquist, George Segal, Theodoros Stamos, Saul Steinberg, and Jack Youngerman. Jones questions most of the artists about the relationship of their painting to European tradition.
Three letters to Jones from James Russell Lowell, January 22, 25 and 27, 1872, seeking aid for his friend the sculptor Charles Akers, who is "helpless through no fault of his own." Lowell rejoices when hearing of Jones's generous contribution, "one has to try the hopeless experiment of filling sieves so often that it is a godsend to pour for once into a cup with no crack in it." Included are two letters to Jones from Charles Akers, February 2 and April 19, 1872, thanking Jones for his gifts of money and writing about his health, travels and work.
Biographical accounts, correspondence, business records (1936-1968), art works, photographs, a photograph album, printed material, and 2 scrapbooks document the life and career of Alfred Jonniaux.
Biographical material consists of a membership card to The Bath Club (1930) and 3 biographical accounts. Correspondence includes letters between Jonniaux, his family, his clients, and his dealers, the Vose Galleries, discussing his work and exhibitions (1915-1967). Business records include 9 address books, business cards, check stubs, a customs form, insurance forms for the shipment of paintings, receipts for art supplies (1936-1967), a fee schedule for portraits, a price list (1961), and a lease for his New York studio. Art works consist of 32 drawings and 11 sketchbooks.
Photographs (1893-1964) show Jonniaux, members of his family, friends, his portraits, and the works of others. An album also contains photographs of his works. Printed material includes clippings (1938-1969) and exhibition announcements and catalogs (1943-1962). Two scrapbooks contain clippings (1921-1964), exhibition announcements and catalogs (1931-1959), and 4 letters discussing his work (1951-1955).
An interview with Donald Judd conducted 1968 May by Margot Willet. Discusses his childhood, public views of his art, painting styles, and "boxes". He mentions the Art Students League, Frank Stella, Jackson Pollock, Tony Smith, and Robert Morris.
Included are: Kadish, Philip Guston, and Jules Langsner on mural scaffold, Mexico, 1934; Kadish, Guston, Mrs. Fletcher Martin, an unidentified woman and a dog, 1935; a portrait of Philip Guston; 3 of Kadish and Guston with their joint mural in the Library at the City of Hope, Duarte, California, ca. 1936; Ingre Guston and Daniel Kadish on their wedding day with Philip and Ken Guston, ca. 1962; and Kadish and Guston in front of a blank wall, ca. 1965.
Correspondence and printed material, mainly regarding Rockwell Kent.
REEL 2033: Correspondence with Rockwell Kent; carbon copies of letters from Kent to newspaper editors, politicians, and political activists, including Harold Kastner, J. Howard McGrath, Senator William Benton, Thomas E. Dewey, Nikita Khrushchev, and others; carbon copies of letters to Kent from Diego Rivera, Eliot White, and others; a copy of a letter from Darwin J. Meserole to Harry S. Truman; letters from Sally Kent and Henriette ("Riette") Kahn, containing newspaper clippings, a typescript of a poem from Rockwell Kent to Riette, a price list with the titles and dimensions of Kent's paintings, and writings by Kahn on Kent; and printed material relating to political activities.
REEL 2300: Correspondence primarily with Kahn and Kent; letters from H. K. Thompson, Jr., Dan Burne Jones, and others; and letters from Kent to Lyndon B. Johnson, Leon Berney, and others. Some letters contain typescripts of writings by Kahn and Kent and printed materials.
Two letters, 1933 and undated, from Eilshemius in response to Kaitz's "fan letter" to Eilshemius. One letter is illustrated with a pen and ink sketch of a nude falling into a stream, and is titled "Flop! in." Also included are an undated clipping about Eilshemius; a review, 1970, written by John Canaday reviewing an Eilshemius exhibition at the Sidney Janis Gallery; and a review, 1978, by Jo Ann Lewis of a retrospective at the Hirshhorn Museum.
Correspondence, photographs, clippings, and exhibition catalogs.
The papers of painter Howard Kanovitz measure 8.00 linear feet and 1 GB and date from 1953-2017. The collection documents Kanovitz's work as a professional artist through biographical material; personal and professional correspondence; writings; interviews; personal business records; gallery, exhibition and project files; photographic and printed material; sound and video recordings; and preliminary drawings and studies for artworks.
Biographical material includes Kanovitz's address and appointment books, artist statements, CVs, genealogical research, a Guggenheim fellowship application, and United States passports. Correspondence files reflect relationships with friends and colleagues, including Frank O'Hara, Larry Rivers, Gregory Corso, B.H. Friedman, and others, as well as curators, museums, and galleries in the United States and Europe. Writings include Kanovitz's notes and notebooks; essays, poetry, and prose by Kanovitz; lists of artworks; poems by others; manuscripts; graduate student papers; and lectures given by Kanovitz. Exhibition and gallery files include checklists, mailing lists, inventories, correspondence, contracts, commission files, invoices, sales records, and proposals related to installations that included Kanovitz's work. Project files include correspondence, artist bios, contracts, invoices, press releases, interview transcripts, notes, source material, and photographs related to film, theater, and other projects. Personal business records include bills of sale, consignment memos, invoices, price lists, and leases for art studios and apartments. Printed material includes publications; clippings; exhibition announcements and catalogs; event programs; source material; posters; and a scrapbook of digital prints. Artwork includes preliminary sketches and source material for Kanovitz's photo-based paintings and set design materials for a circa 1977 play entitled, "The Party." Photographic material includes color and black and white prints, slides, negatives, transparencies, digital prints, and contact sheets that document exhibition installations, friends, artworks, commissions, and various studies and source material. Sound and video recordings include interviews, films, BBC broadcasts, documentaries, and performances that document Kanovitz's set design.
Biographical material includes Kanovitz's personal address book and appointment books dating between 1989 and 2007; artists statements and writings about Kanovitz from 1972 to 2007, CVs and biographical notes from 1971-2007; genealogical research documenting Kanovitz's ancestory; a 1984 Guggenheim Foundation fellowship application; a 1985 East Thirteenth Street Band vinyl record featuring cover art by Larry Rivers, and two United States Passports.
Correspondence documents Kanovitz's personal and professional relationship with artists, writers, musicians, curators, shipping and insurance companies, galleries, and museums across the world from 1953 to 2007. Materials are arranged alphabetically by name, organization, or subject matter and include correspondence, invoices, photographic material, sketches, contracts and agreements, and prices lists. Notable figures include B.H. Friedman, Frank O'Hara, Michael Zwerin, and Larry Rivers.
Writings include final copies of graduate student papers, theses, and proposals about Howard Kanovitz dated 1989, 1996, 1998, and 2007; two B.H. Friedman manuscripts dated 1988 and 1998, including "Beauty Business;" a draft statement regarding Kanovitz's painting, "Rain;" essays, poetry, and prose written by Kanovitz between the circa 1950s and circa 1970s; loose notes; a circa 1990s notebook; a list of artwork; copies of poems by Frank O'Hara, Walt Whitman, and Jeni Olan; Southampton Artists' Association lecture, lecture slides, and sound recording dated 1989 and 1995; transcripts from a 1996 event, "Friday Night Panels, Photographs and Paintings;" and a circa 1969 essay by Udo Kultermansa, "Howard Kanovitz and Tradition."
Exhibition files include planning documentation from various solo and group exhibitions between 1965 and 2008. Materials include proposals, checklists, invoices, announcements, correspondence, consignment agreements, contracts, shipping documentation, clippings, press releases, and photographic material. Also included are three mailing lists for Kanovitz's European and United States contacts. Exhibitions of note include the 1966 Jewish Museum show, "Howard Kanovitz: Recent Paintings and Drawings."
Gallery files document Kanovitz's long professional relationship with art galleries in the U.S. and Europe between 1969 and 2007. Materials include checklists, clippings, correspondence, invoices, inventories, consignment agreements, contracts, shipping documentation, sales and price lists, photographic material, contact lists, announcements, and notes. Galleries of note include Marlborough Gallery in New York City and Galerie Inge Baecker in Germany.
Project files document Kanovitz's film collaborations, set design work, commissions, and website. Film collaborations include "Hampton's Drive-In" dated 1974-1979 and "Painting the Moon," dated 1979, and are documented through correspondence, contracts, press releases, and invoices. Website material includes printed emails, artists bios, notes, and clippings. Commissions include a 1990s mural project in Berlin, the 1987 Southeby's collector's wall, a 1972 interview with Peter Sanger regarding New Realism, and two theater projects, "Artists in the Theater," "Artists and Poets in the Theater," and "Die Bakchen." Theater project materials date between 1974 and 2008 and include photographic material, correspondence, transcripts, and clippings.
Personal business records include bills of sale for Kanovtiz's artwork between 1982 and 1983; consignment memos between 1986 and 2006; price lists from the circa 1960s to circa 1980s; invoices related to 1978 reproductions of Gershwin portraits; and leases dating between 1963-1968 for 122 Second Avenue, 356 Bowery, 461-463 Broome Street, and Kanovitz's Chadwick studio in London.
Printed material includes publications annotated and inscribed by Kanovitz's friends and colleagues; reviews and other clippings; clippings related to artist friends and the play, "Sheila;" source material for the 1971 exhibition, "Death in Treme;" group and solo exhibition announcements and catalogs from 1969 to 2017; magazines featuring articles related to Kanovitz from 1966 to 2001; exhibition and event posters, including an East Thirteenth Street Band poster; and a scrapbook of digital prints from a circa 1999 "Works on Paper" exhibition.
Artwork includes large-scale preparatory drawings for Kanovitz's photo-based paintings, as well as sketchbooks and smaller studies from the 1960s to 1990s. Materials include a collage, sketchbooks, loose sketches, oversize sketches, photographic and paper-based source material, and set design model pieces. Projects include "Hampton Drive-In," "New Yorker I" and "New Yorker II," "Supermarket Charter," and Weinstin's circa 1977 play, "The Party." "The Party" includes set design sketches, photographs, and model pieces.
Photographic material documents Kanovitz's friendships; projects, including a 1969 Sports Illustrated campaign; artwork; installations; Kanovitz's studio; studies and source material for artworks from 1954 to 2008. Included are color and black and white prints, polaroids, negatives, transparencies, contact sheets, digital prints, and slides, which make up the bulk of the series. People of note include Larry Rivers, Frank O'Hara, and Ph Segura.
Sound recordings and video recordings include sound recordings of Charles Simic reading poetry in the Village in 1990; a circa 1990s lecture given by Howard Kanovitz; BBC featuring Kanovitz's friend, Peter Lennon; an interview A. Post used for a 1982 paper regarding Kanovitz; and commercial sound recordings of "Modern American Poets" and Jamey Aebersold Play-A-Long, "All Time Standards." Video recordings include the opera, "Ariadne Auf Naxos;" the 2007 film,"Camera and Mirror: Howard Kanovitz Painting Through the Lens," the 2008 film, "Hotel Le Provencal;" the 1967 and 2007 films narrated by Peter Lennon, "Rocky Road to Dublin;" Kanovitz in his Amagansett studio; a 1988 Marlborough Gallery show; the Marlene Dietrich documentary, "The Blue Angel;" and a 1992 Miss Fitness U.S.A. competition.
Five letters from Nancy Cooper Russell to the Kanst Art Gallery, Los Angeles, Calif. regarding paintings by her husband, Charles M. Russell. Also included is one letter to U.S. Royer, Los Angeles, Calif., and one letter to the Secretary of the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.
Photographs taken or compiled by Karlstrom as Director and Area Collector for the Archives of American Art, including: six color snapshots and five negatives of Louis Siegriest and Nathan Oliveira taken during an oral history interview of Siegriest conducted by Karlstrom; 7 color slides of Edward Kienholz, taken at Kienholz's home in Hope, Idaho, 1975; and 2 snapshots of Beatrice Wood, 1992, taken during an oral history interview session. Also donated is one snapshot of Wood taken by an unknown photographer, Nov. 3, 1993, at Scripps College, Calif.
Letters, in Russian, to his sister, Freda Goulka; articles; photographs; announcements; a sketch of Karolik; phonograph recordings and a 7" tape (untranscribed) of a lecture delivered by Karolik at Bowdoin College February 20, 1963 entitled "Collecting with Purpose--for What?" and a phonograph recording of arias and operas sung by Karolik in 1956. Also included is a transcribed interview of Karolik conducted by an unidentified interviewer, undated.
30 letters to Bernard; photographs of him and his work; shipping receipts; and clippings; correspondence; biographical information; exhibition catalogs, announcements, and invitations; drawings by both artists; and photographs of both artists; photographs of Hortense's sculpture; printed articles in the Artists Equity Association newsletter; and notebook of the Artists Equity Association membership kept by Hortense in 1975.
Correspondence, mainly business; news clippings and magazine articles; exhibition catalogs, announcements and a poster; reproductions of works of art; slides of exhibition installations, and photos of Katz, his studio and works of art.
An interview with William Wilson conducted by Jonathan Katz in 2012. Wilson talks about his relationships in the art world including Ray Johnson, Andy Warhol, Valerie Solanis, his mother May Wilson, and many others.
The scattered printed materials of sculptor Lila Katzen measure 0.2 linear feet, date from 1969 to 1980, and include a resume, exhibition annoucements and catalogs, and press booklets.
Biographical material consists of a resume. Exhibition announcements and catalogs are found for solo and group exhibitions. Press booklets contain compiled newspaper clippings, examples of works of art, and magazine articles on Lila Katz and are photocopies.
Eleven greeting, Christmas, and New Years letters and cards, many illustrated or enclosed with works of art, to Nancy Kaufman from artists William Anthony, Eric Appel, Eugene Brodsy, Rosemarie Castoro, Sasha Kolin, Karen McCready (art dealer), Paula Meizner, Tom Nussbaum, Lowell Reiland, Gladys Schwartz, Anton van Dalen, and James Zwadlo.
Sketchbook includes views of places along the Atlantic coast, ships, forts and specimens of natural history.
The papers of New York City sculptor Charles Keck (1875-1951) measure 8.6 linear feet and date from circa 1905-circa 1954. The papers provide scattered documentation of Keck's life through thirteen letters, two speeches, lists of artwork with price and sales information, printed material, and photographic material, including photos of Keck and his studio, and a collection of 1003 glass plate negatives, primarily of Keck's artwork, which document the wide range of work he produced throughout his prolific career.
Keck's thirteen letters include two from Alexander Stirling Calder and one from Homer Saint-Gaudens. His lists of artwork include details of contracts, payments, and prices.
Photographs include Keck, his wife, Anne Keck, two photos from a circa 1920 Beaux Arts ball, photographs of Keck at work in his studio, including one taken at the American Academy in Rome, three group photographs of Keck, Adolph Weinman, Milton Horn, and others, and photos taken at the unveiling of Keck's monument in Raleigh, North Carolina, that include President Harry S. Truman and Margaret Truman.
This series includes three biographical statements written by others about Keck, including an entry for the National Cyclopedia of American Biography; a diploma given to Keck in recognition of distinguished service in the field of Lincolniana from Lincoln Memorial University; thirteen letters to Keck, including two from Alexander Stirling Calder and one from Homer Saint-Gaudens; typescripts of two speeches given by Keck, to the Allied Artists, and as president of the National Sculpture Society; and printed material including news clippings from 1933 and 1948, statements released about the addition to the General Post Office building in New York City, for which Keck was selected to create a relief sculpture, and a collection of addresses and papers printed in connection with the unveiling of Keck's monument to Andrew Jackson, James K. Polk, and Andrew Johnson in Raleigh, North Carolina in 1948. Lists of artwork include a bound volume listing works alphabetically and giving drawer locations for some of the works; a loose leaf binder of records entitled "Work done" providing overviews of projects including dates of contracts, creation, payments, and some descriptive information about Keck's ideas for the works and his artistic process; and four other loose leaf lists, one of which includes prices.
Photographs of Keck include two with his wife, Anne, at a circa 1920 Beaux Arts Ball at the Astor Hotel in New York City, and one photo of him with his youngest son, John. There are also portraits of Keck and photos of him in his studio, including one from circa 1905 at the American Academy in Rome with his sculpture "The Awakening of Egypt." There are copy prints of family members, including Anne Keck, unidentified individuals, including two men sitting for portraits, and three group photographs of Keck, Adolph Weinman, Milton Horn, and others. Some of the copy prints have been printed from the glass plate negatives in Series 2.2. Also found are photos of the unveiling of Keck's monument to Presidents Jackson, Polk, and Johnson in Raleigh, North Carolina, including photos showing President Harry S. Truman and Margaret Truman, state and government officials James McCord, Willis Smith, R. Gregg Cherry, Clyde R. Hoey, and William B. Umstead, and the lunch following the unveiling at the Governor's Mansion in Raleigh, in October 1948.
1003 glass plate negatives are primarily of artwork by Keck including busts, carvings, reliefs, plaques, medallions, statues, pillars, and paintings, photographed both in the studio and on location. The last box in the series contains a few images of people, including Anne Keck, and of Keck's studio, some of which appear to have copy prints in series 2.1. Photographs.
Approximately one half of the images are numbered according to a system that is referenced in a list of negatives, numbers 400-533, which appears to record the works of art in rough chronological order, ending around 1931. The unnumbered negatives are from circa 1927- to the early 1940s. The original order of the negatives has been maintained.
The Nancy Kelker research material regarding Mel Casas measures 1.3 linear feet and 0.001 GB and dates from 1890 to circa 2011 with the bulk of the collection dating from 1968 to 2005. The material includes sound and video recordings of interviews with Casas by Kelker and Vincent Valdez, and a talk by Casas at Georgia Southwestern University; research files that include Casas' business and legal records, correspondence, exhibition records, photographs, and student papers about Casas; and printed materials consisting of clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, journals, newsletters, and posters relating to Casas' activities during his career. One interview transcript is in digital format. The material was compiled by Kelker for the book Mel Casas: Artist as Cultural Adjuster.
The series includes sound and video recordings of interviews of Casas by Kelker and Vincent Valdez, as well as a talk by Casas at Georgia Southwestern University.
Includes one video recording and transcript of Casas' talk that includes Casas speaking about his childhood and how it impacted his art.
Includes born-digital records, see ER01
Kelker's research files consist of Casas' business and legal records containing contracts, price lists, loan agreements, printed material, correspondence, and records concerning legal disputes; correspondence; and an exhibition file for Chicano Art: Resistance and Affirmation, or CARA. Other files are Kelker's correspondence, appendix material, photographs of Casas and artwork, and student papers about Casas.
Includes labeled photographs of artwork, material on Con Safo, and descriptions for Casas' Humanscapes series.
Includes files for general business records, Carrington Gallagher Gallery, Jansen-Perez Art Agents and Consultants, Joe Cosniac of Zuni Grill, and T.C. Spitts Contemporary Gallery.
Records relate to the exhibition Chicano Art: Resistance and Affirmation (1990-1993).
Includes a portrait and snapshots of Casas with others and at exhibitions. Also includes a few photographs of artwork.
The series contains booklets and brochures, clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, magazines and journals, newsletters and posters relating to Casas' career and activities.
Biographical data; letters; exhibition catalogs and announcements; printed matter; financial material; a scrapbook of xeroxed copies of clippings; sketches; and slides and photographs of Kelly and his paintings, including a photograph of Kelly, Hassel Smith, Roy De Forrest and others in Richard Brodney's San Francisco studio, taken by Kyle Morris, ca. 1952.
The papers of painter Leon Kelly measure 2.0 linear feet and date from 1927-1997. The bulk of the collection consists of biographical material, writings by Kelly about his artwork, letters to Kelly, personal financial records, scrapbooks with photographs of works of art, artwork by Kelly including childhood sketches and designs for clothing and homegoods, and printed material documenting his career. Additional material includes posthumous correspondence and other documentation created by his daughter, Paula Muller, regarding placing Kelly's artwork in institutions and answering resarcher inquiries about his work.
Letters, printed material and miscellany.
Reel N5: Material collected by Kennedy relating to his friend, James McNeill Whistler, including letters received from Whistler, Beatrix Whistler, and others concerning Whistler; letters from Whistler to persons other than Kennedy; and clippings, calling cards and an engraving of Kennedy.
Reel N25: Correspondence, including letters between Whistler and Kennedy, among others. Also, an exhibition catalog, 1895.
Miscellaneous papers concerning auctioneering in New York and the Anderson Galleries.
A transcript and and interview with Rockwell Kent conducted 1957 Sept. 12 by John Wingate.
A one page letter from Rockwell Kent to Peter Bell, February 14, 1969. Kent addresses the letter to Dear Brother Longshoreman, and thanks Bell for his interest in acquiring one of his prints.
Biographical data, letters, notes and writings, numerous sketches, sketchbooks, photographs, and printed material.
Included are: letters from galleries, purchasers of work, museums, friends and colleagues, among them Arthur Wesley Dow and Charles Selden; posthumous correspondence from Mrs. Kenyon and her executrix; miscellaneous notes; bills; a poem, "Scituate Wharves"; an American Federation of Arts exhibition list; a quote about Dow, 1923; and handwritten information about Kenyon's funeral. Also numerous sketches, some annotated, received in random order. Some are dated; others, drawn on envelopes or scraps of paper, were given dates based on postmarks or dated printed material. Undated sketches have been organized into the following categories: animals, boats, houses, nudes and faces, outdoor scenes, and miscellaneous subjects.
Also included are 18 sketchbooks containing sketches of Etaples and Concarneau (France), Holland, Venice, Pont Aven (Brittany), Ipswich, Mass., and unidentified locations; photographs of Kenyon, his wife and others, his Paris studio, a 1926 exhibition of his work, his Ipswich house, and a painting, inscribed by Robert W. Wickenden; exhibition catalogs, 1913-1926; a menu; a picture postcard of Kenyon's summer house in Wilton, N.H.; an admission card for varnishing day at the National Academy of Design; and clippings about an exhibition and Kenyon's burial.
Obituary, exhibition announcements, testimonials by fellow artists, bibliographical material, and articles and clippings about Kerkam.
A letter from Kern to George R. Gliddon. Mentions his brother Dick Kern.
Biographical material, photographs of Kerr, (1957-1969); correspondence (1961); list of artwork (1959-1992); exhibition announcements (1958-1984); clippings (1955-1984); slides of artwork; photocopies from exhibition catalogs (1960-1984); and a video, "The Beach : San Francisco's North Beach, 1950s" directed and produced by Kerr's wife, Mary, c1995 (1 hr.).
Photographs of works by Richard Filipowski collected by William Kessler including two oil paintings and one sculpture completed circa1947-late 1950s, and photographed by Kessler in 1994.
The papers of Margueritte Kimball, financial secretary of the Cranbrook Academy of Art, measure 2.0 linear feet and date from 1929 to 1996. The collection documents the school's history through organization files collected by Kimball in her capacity as secretary, and printed material recording events at the academy.
Organization files consist of correspondence, a file on Cranbrook's history which includes a letter from Henry Scripps Booth discussing Eliel Saarinen's association with the school, faculty and staff position charts, snapshots of people and events at the school, student rosters, Kingswood School Cranbrook yearbooks, and a sound recording of an interview with Kimball conducted by Ragnhild Reingardt. Printed materials consist of school catalogs, exhibition and sales catalogs and announcements, journals and magazines, and chronological files of mixed printed materials.
Organization files contain correspondence, records of Cranbrook history including a letter from Henry Scripps Booth discussing Eliel Saarinen's association with the school, faculty and staff position charts, snapshots of people and events at the school, student rosters, Kingswood School Cranbrook yearbooks, and a sound recording of an interview with Kimball conducted by Ragnhild Reingardt.
Includes a letter by Henry Scripps Booth and an exhibition catalog both discussing the history of Eliel Saarinen at Cranbrook.
Photocopies of the original photographs are included in the folder along with notes by John Lorence identifying some of the people in the photographs.
2 yearbooks
The series consists of clippings, school catalogs, exhibition and sales catalogs and announcements, journals and magazines published by the Cranbrook Academy of Art and the Cranbrook Educational Community, and chronological files of mixed printed materials.
Photographs of artists (1974-1976) and miscellaneous printed material concerning King's photographs (1976-1986).
REEL 906: One hundred three photographs by King are of Leonard Baskin, his family, his studio, and his home.
REEL 1817: Six photographs of Harold Hugo, and 2 photographs of Boris Mirski (1974); previously microfilmed under Photos of Artists II and subsequently scanned.
Unfilmed: Photographs of artists (1976-1977) include Giovanni (John) Castano, Beverly Hallam and Mary-Leigh Smart, John Laurent, Judy and Todd McKee and their children, Peter Plamondon and his studio, and Robert C. Vose. Printed material includes photocopies of King's photographs of Joel Janowitz and Maud Morgan. Printed material containing photographs by King includes a book VISION AND REVISION (1979), a magazine SPECTRUM (Spring/Summer 1985), and a calendar NEW ENGLAND IMAGES (1986).
Biographical material, correspondence, photographs, project files, writings, financial records, works of art, audio visual material, and printed material regarding the career of sculptor William King.
Biographical material includes a yearbook and an award from the National Academy of Design. Business and personal correspondence is with family, friends, and others among them Terry Dintenfass, John Waggaman, Willard Cummings, E. E. Cummings, Gay Talese, and John Canaday. Photographs are of King's family, friends, works of art, and installation shots. Detailed project files contain notes, diagrams, paper cut-outs, blueprints, and technical material. Writings include 16 v. of daily diaries and notes by King and the book "Uncle King's Album". Financial records include sales ledgers and records, contracts for sculptures, cancelled checks, receipts, deposit books, bank statements, and income tax records. Works of art include sketches, a sketchbook, drawings for editorial cartoons, and illustrated cards.
Audio visual material includes six untranscribed cassettes of an interview with King's mother, Florence D. King, a videocassette of King creating Amitie at SUNY Plattsburgh, 1977, 8 mm motion picture films and VHS videocassette copies relating to sculptures Twins and The Creative Spirit, a DVD video recording of King's profile for the Luce Center, Smithsonian Museum of American Art, and an audio cassette recording of the 11th International Sculpture Conference (and corresponding program booklet) honoring King. Printed material includes exhibition catalogs, invitations, announcements, and newspaper clippings. Also included is a memorandum book belonging to King's father Walter Blake King.
The Robert Kipniss papers measure 3.2 linear feet and date from circa 1932-2023. Biographical materials consist of Kipniss' CV, awards and honorary degrees, and an interview with WWNO New Orleans in digital format. Correspondence is personal and professional and is to and from Kipniss. Writings include the manuscript of Shine (2017) and Kipniss' thesis, as well as Kipniss' poetry. Printed materials consist of exhibition catalogs, news clippings, and materials about two exhibitions in digital format. Photographic materials consist of photographs of Kipniss, his exhibitions, and his artwork.
Biographical material includes a CV, an interview of Kipniss for WWNO New Orleans which is on four CDs, an artist profile, and various awards and honorary degrees.
Correspondence is professional and personal in nature and is with The British Museum, Robin Magowan, William Kinnison, and others.
Writings include poems and personal writings by Kipniss as well as the manuscript for Shine (2017), a novella by Kipniss.
Printed material includes exhibition catalogs and announcements, scrapbooks, a DVD for the exhibition Whispering Light FWMIA Exhibition (2016) and a CD for the exhibition Seen In Solitude: Robert Kipniss Prints From The James F. White Collection (2006). Also included are news clippings and various art publications.
Photographic material includes photographs of Kipniss, of his artwork, and of his exhibitions.
54 photos of works of art by Kirk; and miscellany.
Biographical material; award and teaching certificates; files on sculpture commissions containing contracts, correspondence, financial records, sketches, printed material, notes and photographs; ca. 300 photographs of Kiselewski, his studio, and his work; 2 pencil drawings; and miscellany.
The papers of arts administrator Aline Kistler measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1930 to 1936. The papers relate to Kistler's career as an editor of Prints journal and education director at the California Palace of the Legion of Honor, and include correspondence, interviews, lecture and research notes on art, printed material, and writings.
Correspondence relates to Kistler's work as editor of Prints, a print collector's journal. Two typescript interviews are with Jacob Epstein and Barbara Lee. Printed material includes announcements for lectures at the California Palace of the Legion of Honor. The bulk of the collection consists of typescripts of essays on various art subjects and research notes. Subjects include architecture, prints, and French Impressionists. Lists of works of art include price lists and inventory lists of the California Palace of the Legion of Honor.
Included are catalogs, magazines, exhibition announcements and newspaper articles that document the life and career of Kitaj.
Letters to Alice Klauber from Walter Pach and Robert Henri about art activities; letters to Klauber and Edgar L. Hewett regarding the Panama-California Exposition of 1915-1916 in San Diego; and a few letters from William Zorach, Pierre Matisse and Wayman Adams regarding exhibits at the Fine Arts Gallery of San Diego. All letters are copies.
The 19 letters from Pach, 1907-1929, regard arrangements for Klauber to attend the Chase School in Italy (Pach was a manager/instructor), and his travels and work in Italy, Belgium, and Paris. Henri, writing 1912-1918, in 34 letters, discusses Maratta's color system, trips to Ireland, California, and Santa Fe, his health and work. The series concerning the Panama- California Exposition of 1915-1916 comprise mainly letters and telegrams to the art department chair Edgar L. Hewett from artists George Bellows, Arthur B. Davies, William Glackens, Bertram Hartman, Childe Hassam, Henri, Marjorie Organ (Mrs. Robert Henri), George Luks, Ernest Lawson, Maurice Prendergast, Joseph Henry Sharp, and John Sloan regarding their work, and a few to Klauber on her work for the exposition.
Research material including interviews, writings, photographs of works of art and printed material regarding conceptual artist David Ireland for the book "Touching Time and Space: A Portrait of David Ireland" by Klausner. Interviews are with Ireland as well as Paule Anglim, Robert Atkins, Bill Berkson, Frances Hill Barlow, Agnes Bourne, Damon Brandt, Douglas Dunn, Gary Garrels, Jay Gorney, Ann Hatch, Barbara Ireland, Judy Ireland, Marsha Ireland, Shaugn Ireland, P. Koss, Leah Levy, Connie Lewallen, Phil Linhares, James Melchert, Jeannie Myers, Richard Pinegar, Jane Reed, Jock Reynolds, Robert Storr, Marcia Tanner, Mark Thompson, Alta Tingle, and Karen Tsujimoto. Most, but not all, are transcribed. Writings include drafts and notebooks. Printed material includes exhibition catalogs and newspaper clippings.
A painting by John Chamberlain inscribed on the verso: "To Franz Kline, Christmas '57, John Chamberlain"; and typescripts of a poem and essay matted together, presumably for Kline. The poem is entitled, "Some Changes" and is signed Max. The essay is entitled, "Captain America" and signed Fee. Max is probably poet Max Finstein, and Fee is probably Fielding Dawson, both who studied at Black Mountain College with Kline and Chamberlain.
The papers of California and New Mexico painter and etcher, Gene Kloss, provide scattered documentation of Kloss's career through 35 items dating from 1932-1956. Records include letters to Kloss, primarily about exhibitions and purchases of her work; press clippings documenting exhibitions and other activities including lectures delivered by Kloss; a photograph of Kloss and three photographs of her artwork; and ten etchings. The etchings represent a complete set of the artist's prints of the Southwest executed for the Public Works of Art Project from 1933-1934.
A lecture given by Karl Knaths 1968 Aug. 11 in Provincetown, Massachusetts. Knaths was introduced by Morris Davidson. Lecture was delivered to the Provincetown Art Association.
Photographs of the Sloans in and about their ranch in Santa Fe. Two photographs show Sloan painting in his studio, and two show him making a bookshelf. Other people pictured include: Jozef Bakos, Teresa Bakos, and Will Shuster. Copyprints of original negatives made by Len Bouche.
Biographical data and curriculum vitae; business correspondence, mostly about his art-related activities and teaching at several universities; letters from his dealers, the Downtown Gallery and the Alan Gallery; exhibition catalogs and announcements; magazine articles; clippings and news releases; miscellaneous bills and receipts; and photographs of Knipschild and his works.
The papers of architect, and interior designer and planner Florence Knoll Bassett, measure approximately 2 linear feet dating from 1932 to 2000. The collection selectively documents Knoll Bassett's education and her career at Knoll Associates, Inc. from the 1940s until her resignation in 1965, in addition to personal design projects and other activities after leaving the company. It is an important source of information on the development of interior architecture and design from the 1940s to the 1970s, chronicling the Knoll mission to synthesize space, furniture, and design by creating interiors based on practical use, comfort, and aesthetics.
The collection documents the growth of Knoll's international reputation for its modern furnishings and interiors and the impact of a business philosophy that encompassed design excellence, technological innovation, and mass production. The material includes a chronology of Knoll Bassett's career; a portfolio of sketches, drawings and designs; photographs of Knoll Bassett and others; subject files containing sketches and photographic material; letters from friends, colleagues, clients and others; awards received by Knoll Bassett throughout her career; and printed material.
Much of the material is annotated with historical and biographical notes written by Knoll Bassett which provide invaluable contextual information for the materials found therein. The notes are dated 1999 in the Container Listing, under the assumption that they were written by Florence Knoll Bassett as she was arranging her archival papers.
This series comprises a spiral-bound portfolio designed and compiled by Knoll Bassett to "briefly chart the direction of my life from 1932 onward." The portfolio documents her artistic development during her years at Kingswood School and Cranbrook Academy of Art; her work at Knoll Associates including the presentation of Knoll showrooms and work undertaken for a variety of corporate clients; and personal architecture projects in Vermont and Florida. Included are copies of designs from all periods of her career, and copies of letters and photographs of individuals and significant events throughout her life. Biographical text, written by Knoll Bassett, accompanies the material.
This series comprises a spiral-bound portfolio of copies of articles documenting Knoll Bassett's career in various art and design publications, newspapers, and encyclopedias. See Series 4 for additional printed material.
The first item in this series is a portfolio of original, and copies of, drawings, sketches, plans, and miscellany, such as two greeting cards designed by Hans and Florence Knoll, in addition to copies of printed matter and photographs of projects undertaken by Knoll Associates. The majority of the designs were executed by Knoll Bassett for her own use or as more formal presentations for clients, but there are also copies of sketches by others including Hans Knoll and Andy Warhol. The material includes the original drawing for Knoll Bassett's first house design at Kingswood School, executed in 1932. Material relating to Knoll projects illustrate Knoll Bassett's practice of using three-dimensional models with fabric swatches applied to furniture layout plans for client presentations, a technique which later became a standard in the profession. The portfolio is annotated by Knoll Bassett.
A spiral-bound portfolio containing sketches by Knoll Bassett of a cruise of the Greek Islands in 1967 can also be found here.
This series contains a spiral-bound portfolio of six photographic prints of Knoll Bassett with clients and colleagues, including Eero Saarinen, from the 1950s and 1960s, followed by printed material from 1959 to 1997 documenting her career. A copy of the book, Knoll Design, can also be found here. See Series 2 for additional printed material.
The series contains original, and copies of notes, letters, drawings, sketches, plans, photographic material, and printed matter, as well as historical notes written by Knoll Bassett. Originals of some of the material in Series 1 can be found here.
Folders 1 and 2 contain material relating to Knoll Bassett's education and her relationship with the Saarinen family, including original illustrated letters from Eero Saarinen. The majority of the material relates to projects undertaken by the Knoll Planning Unit, including showroom designs and some of the company's most important and innovative projects for corporate clients. The files typically contain annotated plans and sketches in addition to photographs, transparencies, and negatives of each project. Specific aspects of the Planning Unit's operations, such as the development of textiles and graphics, are also documented here, as are the individual contributions of early Knoll designers. Material relating to personal projects undertaken by Knoll Bassett in Vermont and Florida is also included here.
This series was arranged by Knoll Bassett in numbered folders, some of which contain two or more related sub folders which are indicated by an indent in the Container Listing.
(Kingswood includes photographs of Rachel de Wolfe Raseman, taken 1936; Cranbrook includes photos of Eliel and Eero Saarinen and Carl Milles)
(includes photographs of Sutton Place and Manhattan house residences)
This series contains letters selected by Knoll Bassett to document significant events throughout her life and career. As in Series 5, the originals for some of the material in Series 1 can be found here. Correspondents include Carl Milles, Eero and Loja Saarinen, David Rockefeller, Katharine Graham, Nancy Reagan, Indira Ghandi, Frank Stanton, and Isamu Noguchi. In addition to letters the series also contains printed matter and other material of interest, such as an original invitation with a guest list and photographs from a 1947 party given by Howard Meyers, Editor-in-Chief of Architectural Forum a wedding card made by Charles and Ray Eames on the occasion of Florence Knoll's marriage to Harry Hood Bassett in 1958; and an invitation from the White House from 1976.
The letters are arranged by decade.
This series documents some of the awards and honorary degrees presented to Knoll Bassett over the course of her career, including the Gold Medal for Industrial Design awarded by the American Institute of Architects in 1961 and the Total Design Award given by the American Society of Interior Designers in 1977. Materials include award certificates with related correspondence and printed material. In some cases there are also notes for, or the text of, remarks given by Knoll Bassett upon acceptance of an award.
The material is arranged by decade.
Lewis Koch New Year's cards measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1980-2021. Included are 41 holiday and New Year's cards created by Koch representing a complete set of cards sent over 41 years. Many cards are unsigned.
Thirty-four letters (1888-1890) pertain to the Milwaukee Industrial Exposition Association's attempt to raise funds to purchase Koehler's painting "The Strike" for the Layton Art Gallery in Milwaukee. At the time, the painting was on exhibit in the American section of the Exposition Universelle of 1889 in Paris and the letters reflect Koehler's efforts to persuade the officials to permit the painting's removal from the exhibition. One letter (1916) written by George E. Vincent of the University of Minnesota, confirms Koehler's appointment as a lecturer on art history. One letter (1927) written by Marie Koehler to Karl W. Jones, explains why she is sending her husband's correspondence to Mr. Jones.
Letters from art dealers, 1961-1985; and printed material, including exhibition catalogs, announcements, and invitations received from New York City galleries, clippings, newsletters and press releases.
An album containing photographs of an unidentified gallery opening; and 5 scrapbooks containing letters, clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, press releases, and photographs, 1934-1966.
Scrapbook, photographs, correspondence, art work, estate papers, and printed material.
REEL 3960: Two copy prints of photographs of Koopman and his family, one dated May 1907 of Koopman, his wife Louise, and children Ellen and Bernard, the other undated of Koopman, enlarged from a snapshot.
REEL 5321: Artwork, ca. 1892-1910 (43 items), including; a sketchbook; 23 loose sketches; 2 pastels; 15 prints; 2 watercolors; and 1 conte crayon drawing. Among the subjects are churches, infants, seascapes, and landscapes.
UNMICROFILMED: A scrapbook containing photographs of Koopman and his work, reproductions of his work, clippings, exhibition catalogues (some annotated) and a pastel; 18 monotypes; photographs of Koopman and his work; letters to Koopman and letters relating to the disposition of Koopman's estate (some are copies); notes; copy of Koopman's will; printed material, including exhibition catalogs, some annotated with prices; a "poster" signed by members of "Les Anciens d'Etaples" to be presented to Koopman while he was ill and ammended with his death date; a transcription of a newsclipping; and 8 copy prints of photographs of Koopman, Koopman in his studio, the Koopman family, and of a painting by Koopman of his mother.
156 sound recordings of interviews with American craft artists, mainly those that work with clay, created in preparation for her book, What Makes a Potter/Functional Pottery in America Today, Schiffer Publishing, 2018. Several interviews have corresponding transcripts. Entire collection consists of born digital records.
Two letters of introduction from Forbes Watson; 2 letters from Alfred Stieglitz relating to Korff's review of an exhibition by Georgia O'Keeffe, 1938; a scrapbook of her articles and reviews; and reference catalogs and clippings filed under the letter "A."
The papers of Belle Krasne Ribicoff measure 1.6 linear feet and date from 1942-circa 2010, with the bulk of the collection dating from 1945-2004. Papers include biographical materials; correspondence with artists, art historians, writers, museum directors, and others; individual files relating to Belle and Irving Ribicoff's art collection and the Friends of Abe Ribicoff's campaign for the United States Senate; artwork; printed material, e.g., clippings, announcements, exhibition catalogues, brochures; and photographs. The collection documents Ribicoff's career as an arts editor, critic, and her involvement in civic and arts organizations for the State of Connecticut.
Biographical materials include documentation of the Buttenweiser Prize awarded to Belle Krasne by the Art History Departmental Honors at Vassar College in 1945 and curriculum vitae.
Correspondence, primarily incoming letters consists of letters, postcards, draft versions, and copies of e-mails. Belle Krasne Ribicoff was friends with many artists; their letters focus on daily activities, work, and the art world. Among the correspondents are Oscar and Eleanor Chelminsky, Joseph Cornell, Piero and Virginia Dorazio, John and Rae Ferren, Helen Frankenthaler, James Fitzsimmons, Adolph Gottlieb, John Graham, Ellsworth Kelly, Frank Modell, George L.K. Morris, Philip Pearlstein, Eero Saarinen, David Smith, and Adja Yunkers. There is substantial correspondence from Ben Benn, Sidney Geist, Leon Hartley, Ralph Rosenborg, and Theodore Roszak. Also found are love letters to Belle Krasne Ribicoff from Jean Bazaine. Many of the artists' letters are illustrated. Of note, are a letter from Carl Holty to J.B. Neumann and an artist's statement written by Adolph Gottlieb.
Ribicoff had a professional and personal relationship with a number of prominent writers, actors, and other individuals known for their work in the arts, such as Edward Albee, Claire Bloom, Peter DeVries, Horton Foote, Elia Kazan, Mark Lamos, Estelle Parsons, Karl Shapiro, Cornelia Otis Skinner, and P.L. Travers. There are letters from museum directors, art historians, and other well-known cultural figures, such as Dore Ashton, Clement Greenberg, Balcomb Greene, Rene d'Harnoncourt, Pierre Matisse, E. P. Richardson, Andrew C. Ritchie, Harry Salpeter, Curt Valentin, and Mark Van Doren. Also found are files of holiday cards, many original artwork; letters to Ribicoff upon her departure from Art Digest; letters from representatives at Storm King Art Center Museum and the Wadsworth Atheneum; and letters from unidentified correspondents.
The Ribicoff collection relates to the personal art collection of Belle and Irving Ribicoff; materials document the purchase and sale of artwork and the lending of artwork for exhibitions. There is a file of petition letters sponsored by the Friends of Abe Ribicoff campaign for the United States Senate.
Original artwork includes prints by Jean Arp and Adja Yunkers and pencil sketches of Sarai Ribicoff by William Bailey. Printed material consists of news clippings; a periodical; exhibition announcements; brochures; an offprint of an article by Cleve Gray; and miscellaneous printed material.
Photographs contain black and white photographs of Belle Krasne Ribicoff, Ben and Velida Benn, Richard Krautheimer, and of the jurors attending the Carnegie International exhibition (circa 1954), including Jean Bazaine, Rico Lebrun, Eric Newton, and James Thrall Soby.
This series contains documentation for the Buttonweiser Prize awarded to Belle Krasne Ribicoff by the Art History Department at Vassar College and curriculum vitae.
Correspondence spans over sixty years, with the bulk dating from 1949-2007. Belle Krasne Ribicoff's correspondence, mostly incoming letters, consists of letters, drafts, postcards, and copies of e-mails. Some letters are illustrated; a few contain original artwork. Many letters have attachments, such as invoices, price lists, notes, sketches, printed material, clippings, exhibition catalogues, invitations, and photographs.
Ribicoff was friends with many artists. Their letters to her concern daily activities, work, and the art world. Among the correspondents were Charles Burchfield, Oscar and Eleanor Chelminsky, Joseph Cornell, Piero and Virginia Dorazio, John and Rae Ferren, Helen Frankenthaler, Alberto Giacometti, John Graham, Russell Lynes, Frank Modell, George L.K. Morris, Philip Pearlstein, David Smith, John Von Wicht, Adja Yunkers, among others. There are individual artists' files for Ben Benn, Sidney Geist, Leon Hartley, Arnold Newman, Ralph Rosenborg, and Theodore Roszak. Two items of interest: Carl Holty's letter to J.B. Neumann discusses the use of realism in his work and an artist's statement by Adolph Gottlieb. Marcel Duchamp correspondence consists of two black and white photographs of the artist: a print by Victor Obsatz inscribed to Belle Krasne Ribicoff and a print by Naomi Savage, and a reproduction of an artwork.
Ribicoff's friends and colleagues included writers, actors, and other well-known individuals associated with theatre and film, such as Edward Albee, Claire Bloom, Horton Foote, Elia Kazan, Peter De Vries, Mark Lamos, Estelle Parsons, Cornelia Otis Skinner, and P.T. Travers. Also found are letters from art historians, museum directors, gallery dealers, such as Dore Ashton, S. Lane Faison, Balcomb Greene, Rene d'Harnoncourt, Pierre Matisse, Andrew C. Ritchie, Harry Salpeter, Curt Valentin and others. Files also contain letters to Belle Krasne Ribicoff from friends and colleagues relating to her departure from Art Digest; letters between Ribicoff and representatives of the Storm King Art Center Museum pertaining to her donation of unpublished letters by David Smith to the museum; and correspondence with the Wadsworth Atheneum. Included is a small file of unidentified correspondents.
Addams, Charles
Albee, Edward
Ashton, Dore and Adja Yunkers
Arthur Lénars and Cie
Bloom, Claire
Blumenthal, Charles
Burchfield, Charles
Carnegie Institute
Chelminsky, Oscar and Eleanor
Cisneros, Henry G.
College Art Association 
Cornell, Joseph
D'Harnoncourt, Rene
De Vries, Peter
Dorazio, Piero and Virginia
Edelman, Maurice
Ernst, Jimmy
Evergood, Philip
Ferren, John and Rae
Fitzsimmons, James
Foote, Horton
Frankenthaler, Helen
Gottlieb, Adolph
Glamer, Fritz
Graham, John
Grasso, Ella 
Greenberg, Clement
Greene, Balcomb
Hagenbech, Marguerite 
Holmes, Willard
Holty, Carl
Horowitz, Glenn
J. D. Smith Inter-Ocean, Inc.
Kappel, Philip
Katz, Leslie
Kelly, Ellsworth
Lamos, Mark
Lynes, Russell
Marca-Relli, Conrad
Matisse, Pierre
Modell, Frank
Morris, George, L. K.
Nesbit, Alexander
Parsons, Estelle
Pearlstein, Philip
Pittman, Hobson
Richardson, E. P.
Ritchie, Andrew C. (The Museum of Modern Art, New York)
Robinson, Frank
Rowland, Governor John C. 
Ryan, Anne
Saarinen, Eero
Salpeter, Harry
Schlesinger, Arthur, Jr.
Shapiro, Karl
Shikler, Aaron
Skinner, Cornelia Otis
Smith, David
Steinberg, Leo
Toscano, Anonimo
Travers, P. L.
Valentin, Curt
Von Wicht, John
Yunkers, Adja
The Ribicoff Collection consists of records maintained by Belle Krasne Ribicoff on the Ribicoffs' personal art collection. Files document works that were sold or donated and the lending of artwork for exhibitions, mainly to university museums, including the Hopkins Center Art Galleries at Dartmouth College, Trinity College, Vassar College, and Williams College.
Materials include: correspondence with individuals at museums, galleries, publishers, and framers; loan agreements, exhibition forms, delivery receipts, and an insurance endorsement; receipts and invoices for frames and photographic prints of artwork; receipts for purchase of artwork; and consignment receipt, sales confirmation notice, post sales advice, and remittance advices for sale of artwork; and photographs of artwork.
Files include petition letters for Abraham Ribicoff's reelection to the United States Senate for the State of Connecticut and a clipping of the campaign advertisement sponsored by the Friends of Abe Ribicoff that appeared in the New York Times featuring the list of signatories to the petition.
Scattered notes include individuals who had expressed interest in supporting Ribicoff's nomination.
Artwork includes a color print of a figure by Jean Arp and cover art for Art Digest by Adja Yunkers. There are two pencil sketches of Sarai Ribicoff by William Bailey.
Oversized material housed in OV 5
Oversized material housed in OV 4
Printed material houses clippings, mostly reviews of art exhibitions, announcements, exhibition catalogues, and an offprint of an article by Cleve Gray. Included are brochures for the elementary arts education program, Project CREATE directed by Belle Krasne Ribicoff.
This series contains black and white prints of Belle Krasne Ribicoff, Ben and Velida Benn, Richard Krautheimer and the Carnegie International jury featuring Jean Bazaine, Rico Lebrun, Eric Newton, and James Thrall Soby.
Also included are black and white snapshots of Belle Krasne Ribicoff at Vassar College and color snapshots of Ribicoff with unidentified colleagues and friends.
Manuscripts, publications, notes and notebooks, photocopies of articles, outlines, contact sheets, negatives, photographs, newspaper clippings, catalogs, magazines, and miscellany relating to Kraus' work as a labor activist and, with his wife Dorothy, historian of medieval art and architecture.
The scattered papers of sculptor Louise Kruger measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1949 to 1973. Found is a resume, a chronology of Kruger's sculpture with photographs, and printed material.
Series includes a resume, seventeen photographs of Kruger's sculpture including a list of her works with brief descriptions focusing on the chronology of her work, and printed material including exhibition catalogs and announcements and clippings.
Logan laments Kruse's recent return to the U.S., and describes his own activities in Paris.
Color photocopies of Kuehne's diary, account books, address books, exhibition catalog, and photographs. Account books record the paintings, prints, frames, and pieces of furniture sold to prominent clients and galleries, among them Albert Barnes, Daniel Gallery, Durand-Ruel Gallery, Juliana Force, Albert Gallatin, Rockwell Kent, Knoedler Gallery, Ernest Lawson, Kenneth Hayes Miller, Charles Sheeler, and Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney. There are also copies of photographs of the Kuehne's in New York and Rockport, Mass.
History of the Armory Show, written and published by Walt Kuhn. "The Armory show of 1913 (International Exhibiton of modern art [was] given under the auspices of the Association of American Painters and Sculptors)..."
The papers of painter Aaron Kurzen measure 2.3 linear feet and date from 1941-2017 and document Kurzen's life in the Army during World War II and after as an art teacher at the Dalton School in New York. Included are biographical material, personal and professional correspondence with family, friends, artists, colleagues and students; 50 ink sketches mounted on board by Kurzen, mostly of fellow soldiers in downtime activities during World War II; images of Kurzen's works of art on CD; and research material on holography, an interest of Kurzen's that he incorporated into his surealist sculpture. Also included are records related to the toy company Fun and Fulfillment Machines co-founded by Kurzen.
Biographical materials, including list of patents; files of museum exhibitions; files of college and university exhibitions; writings by and about Labino; correspondence; clippings; and photographs. The files are arranged alphabetically within five separate categories: museums, colleges and universities, commercial institutions, non-commercial institutions and associations, and miscellaneous organizations.
Thesis (Doctoral)-University of Minnesota, 1954.
The papers of sculptor Anna Coleman Ladd measure 4.26 linear feet, date from 1881-1950, and document the career of sculptor Anna Coleman Ladd. Found within the papers are biographical material, letters, diaries, financial material, notes and writings, art work, a file concerning the American Red Cross Studio for Portrait-Masks, scrapbooks, printed material, and photographs.
Biographical materials are scattered and include calling cards, biographical sketches notes, and certificates.
Correspondence includes letters written to Anna Coleman Ladd from various family members, friends, and colleagues. Notable correspodents include William Aldrich, Gabriella Fabbricotti, Isabella Stewart Gardner, Natalie Hays Hammond, and Jessie Eldridge Southwick.
Diaries are daily diaries dating from 1903-1905 and from 1911-1912. Each diary includes short descriptions of Ladd's days.
Financial materials include receipts, stock certificates, travel materials, lists, and an account book for Dr. Maynard Ladd.
Writings and notes consists of notebooks, lists of works of art, inventories, manuscripts by Ladd and by others.
Artworks include two sketchbooks, loose drawings, and a plaster relief by Ladd as well as several sketches by others.
American Red Cross Studio for Portrait-Masks files include correspondence, writings, a scrapbook, printed materials, and photographs. Materials concern portrait masks used to disguise the disfigured faces of World War I veterans.
Scrapbooks consists of three scrapbooks containing photographs, printed materials, and writings.
Printed materials include clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs for Ladd's works, books and booklets, and posters, some of which are French World War I propaganda.
Photographs include photographs of Anna Coleman Ladd with her works of art and in the studio, Dr. Maynard Ladd, friends, family, colleagues, and works of sculpture.
This series includes biographical and genealogical notes for Anna Coleman Ladd and the Ladd family, including an application to the WPA. There are also membership and award certificates.
Letters are primarily from family members and friends including Countess Nora Balzani, Dr. Bindo de Vecchio, and painter Gabriella Fabbricotti. There are a few letters each from colleagues Emil Ahlborn, William Aldrich, Frances F. Brundage, Ralph Adams Cram, Willard Cummings, John Ettl, Isabella Stewart Gardner, Charles Grafly, Lilian Westcott Hale, Philip Leslie Hale, Natalie Hays Hammond, J. Scott Hartley, Malvina Hoffman, Anna Vaughn Hyatt, Leila Mechlin, Violet Oakley, Albin Polasek, Bertha Potter, Janet Scudder, Thomas Mott Shaw, Lorado Taft, and Rosamond Tudor. There are also letters from activists Elisabeth Achelis, Florence Peshine Eagleton, and Gabrielle Enthoven, actors Julie Opp Faversham, William Faversham, Frances Starr, and Gilda Varesi, composer Louisa P. Loring, dancers Beate Bolm, Michio Ito, and Anna Pavolva, and writers James Bryce, Maud Howe Elliott, Eirene Mungo-Park, Romain Rolland, Porter Sargent, Jessie Eldridge Southwick, and Riccardo Tramontano.
Researchers should note that some correspondence is unsigned or illegible.
(to her children, husband, and drafts to friends)
Missing Title
Brown, Henry Hobart
Missing Title
Tom (maybe Thomas Mott Shaw)
Trevelyn, Madeline
Missing Title
Merrill, George Grenville
Tom (maybe Thomas Mott Shaw)
Missing Title
Baldwin, Abraham Rosencrans
Missing Title
Ladd, Maynard
Missing Title
Greene, Rosalind and Henry Copley
Missing Title
Fabbricotti, Gabriella
Missing Title
Balzani, Nora
Ladd, Maynard
Missing Title
Balzani, Nora
Fabbricotti, Gabriella
Tom (maybe Thomas Mott Shaw)
de Vecchio, Bindo
Missing Title
de Vecchio, Bindo
Balzani, Nora
Missing Title
Fabbricotti, Gabriella
de Vecchio, Bindo
Balzani, Nora
Missing Title
Balzani, Nora
Watts, John
Bryce, James
MacMillan, Frederick
de Vecchio, Bindo
Missing Title
Balzani, Nora
Fabbricotti, Gabriella
Roosevelt, George
de Vecchio, Bindo
Missing Title
Fabbricotti, Gabriella
Balzani, Nora
Girolemo, F.
Missing Title
Fabbricotti, Gabriella
Balzani, Nora
de Vecchio, Bindo
Balzani, I.
Missing Title
Balzani, Nora
Ladd, Maynard
Missing Title
Balzani, Nora
Watts, John
Bryce, James
MacMillan, Frederick
de Vecchio, Bindo
Missing Title
Tom (maybe Thomas Mott Shaw)
Fabbricotti, Gabriella
Balzani, Nora
Ladd, Maynard
Missing Title
Balzani, Nora
Mungo-Park, Eirene
A., Nina
de Vecchio, Bindo
Tom (maybe Thomas Mott Shaw)
Gentili (?), Ida
Fabbricotti, Gabriella
Tejan (?), Bianca Bardo
Potter, Bertha
Missing Title
MacMillan, Frederick
Perry, Blinn
Fabbricotti, Gabriella
A., Nina
de Bellegarde, Nina
Missing Title
Balzani, I.
Poole, Lavore
Leroy, E.
Balzani, Nora
del Buono, Albert
Fabbricotti, Gabriella
Missing Title
Fabbricotti, Gabriella
Holt, Henry
Smith, Gertrude Robinson
Missing Title
Sargent, Porter
Fray, Ronald
Fabbricotti, Gabriella
Mechlin, Leila
Balzani, Nora
French, W.M.R.
Missing Title
Taft, Lorado
Coolidge, J.R. Jr.
Malcolm, Victoria
Grafly, Charles
Fabbricotti, Gabriella
Missing Title
Holt, Roland
Mechlin, Leila
Tom (maybe Thomas Mott Shaw)
Mungo-Park, Eirene
Missing Title
Mechlin, Leila
Fabbricotti, Gabriella
Macbeth, Robert Walker
Brunetti, Jose
Polasek, Albin
Trask, John E.D.
Borghese, Ann
Scudder, Janet
Phillips, Caroline Drayton
MacMillan, Frederick
Aldrich, William
Missing Title
Zanelli, Angelo
McKay, Helen
Mechlin, Leila
Ladd, Maynard
Fabbricotti, Gabriella
Borghese, Ann
Hale, Philip L.
Ricker, Nettie M.
Hartley, J. Scott
Faversham, Julie Opp
Faversham, William
Missing Title
Tucker, Caroline
Missing Title
Howland, Esther
Ladd, Maynard
Missing Title
Powell, F.C.
Kingston, Gertrude
Missing Title
Southwick, Jessie Eldridge
Balzani, Nora
Boynton Monks
Fabbricotti, Gabriella
Heard, Ralph Prescott
Eggers, George W.
Missing Title
A., Nina
Tramontano, Riccardo
Balzani, Nora
Tarbell, Ida
Ladd, Maynard
Boynton Monks
Bolm, Beate
Balzani, Nora
Barttell, Mary F.
Missing Title
Miller, E. Achelis
Bochman, Mrs. Charles
Oakley, Violet
Missing Title
Brundage, Frances F.
Forbes, Allan
Gardner, Isabella Stewart
Rollins, Mabel
Barnard, George Grey
Kelsey, Albert
Sturgis, R. Clipston
Harshe, Robert
Missing Title
Blake, William
Missing Title
Balzani, Nora
Tudor, Rosamond
Pavlova, Anna
Missing Title
Tudor, Rosamond
Hayward, Alfred
Megrew, Louise G.
Missing Title
Ladd, Maynard
Missing Title
Kirk, Henry
MacAusland, Andrew
Minahan, Katharine
Taft, Lorado
Angel, John
Achelis, Elisabeth
Balzani, Nora
Scarborough, Dorothy
Missing Title
Clough, Clarence
Picot, Colonel
Balzani, Nora
Rollard, Romain
Missing Title
Ladd, Maynard
de Marco, Etta de Vite
Balzani, Nora
McKenzie, R. Tait
Shaw, Louis
Missing Title
Williamson, J.
Pollak-Ottendorff, Emil
Fiske, Claire
Missing Title
Morgan, Emily
Frary, William
Missing Title
Fabbricotti, Gabriella
Missing Title
Fabbricotti, Gabriella
The diaries contain brief annotations describing Ladd's daily activities. The diary dated 1903-1905 also contains a list of relief sculptures. The other diary has a hand-worked suede cover, and primarily annotates daily activities in 1911. There is also a page of annotations describing activities dating from January 20 to 27, 1912, with an additional page listing names.
Financial material consists of receipts for the sale of art work and for travel, stock certificates for the Alliance Oil Company, and a promissory note and account book relating to Maynard Ladd's medical practice.
This series consists of notebooks and manuscripts written by Anna Coleman Ladd and by others, some of which are illustrated by Ladd. Notebook 1 primarily contains lists of mythological and allegorical characters. Notebook 2 contains historical notes, listings of Italian authors and painters, poems, clippings, anatomical drawings, and an illustrated letter. Notebook 3 contains notes from a class in composition. Notebook 4 contains lists of friends' names and poetry.
The guest register contains autographs of William Aldrich, Senator Albert J. Beveridge, Gabriella Fabbricotti, Isabella Stewart Gardner, Philip Leslie Hale, John Hays Hammond, Marie Danforth Page, Agnes Repplier, John Singer Sargent, Frances Starr. There are two small hand-made books by Anna Coleman Watts and Gabriella Fabbricotta. Miscellaneous poems include the poem "Hymn for Easter" by Dorothy Grafly.
Oversized material housed in Box 6 and OV 7
Oversized material scanned with Box 2, F32
Art work consists of sketchbooks, drawings, and a small plaster relief sculpture by Anna Coleman Ladd. Art work by others includes a drawing of Mademoiselle Monnier by E. Briant, a watercolor sketch by E. Hunter, and a cut-out silhouette of a woman.
Oversized material housed in Box 6 and OV 7
Oversized material housed in Box 6
Oversized material scanned with Box 2, Folder 62, 64
Oversized material scanned with Box 2, Folder 62
This series contains material relating to Ladd's services aiding soldiers badly disfigured during World War I. Ladd established a studio in Paris in which she fashioned cosmetic masks to be worn by soldiers with terrible facial wounds. The notes and writings include a small notebook of price lists for sculptures. The scrapbook contains letters, clippings, and photographs of Maynard Ladd in the trenches, and of disfigured soldiers both with and without their masks.
Oversized material housed in Box 6
Oversized material scanned with Box 3, F2
Scrapbook 1 primarily contains photographs, clippings, and postcards showing works of art and architecture. Scrapbook 2 contains photographs of Ladd and her work, notes and writings, and clippings. Scrapbook 3 contains photographs of art work, a writing entitled "Jesus and the Sleeping Child," a booklet, and clippings.
Printed material includes clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, programs, prospectuses, posters, brochures, autographed menus, booklets, and books. The programs are from Salisbury Cathedral, the Park Theatre, and Vassar College. The posters primarily reflect World War I topics including warnings against gas bombs. Brochures are primarily for lectures by Ladd. The menu dated 1921 is autographed by Cass Gilbert and Alfred Harding, Bishop of Washington. The books Meditations in Verse and Sundial Mottoes are autographed by the authors. Miscellaneous printed material includes engravings of anatomical diagrams.
Oversized material housed in Box 6
Oversized material housed in Box 6, OV 7
(Vassar College)
Oversized material housed in Box 6
Oversized material scanned with Box 3, F29, 40, 65
Oversized material scanned with Box 3, F40
Photographs are of Anna Coleman Ladd, her family, friends, colleagues, her summer studio at Beverly Farms, Manchester, Massachusetts, her art work, and the art work of others. There is an autographed photo of Italian poet Giosuè Carducci, who won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1906. Photographs of art work include an image of Ladd's work autographed by Bela Lyon Pratt. There is also a photograph of sculptor John Ettl in his studio. Additional photographs are found in Scrapbooks and Ladd's file on her portrait masks.
Oversized material housed in Box 6
Oversized material scanned with Box 4, F6, 20, 21 and Box 5, F7
The 1871 Constitution, publicity materials (1876-1888), published lists of members, a petition to the State of New York for financial aid, and correspondence (1887-1914). A 1914 letter from a member outlines the history of the Association.
The John La Farge photograph album dates from circa 1890 and includes photographs taken by John La Farge when he was traveling in Japan.
Correspondence of Florence Laffal regarding the quarterly newsletter the "Folk Art Finder" (1980-2000); photographs (photocopies); correspondence with John Turner concerning his book manuscript on Finster; photographs of self-taught artists; and printed material concerning exhibitions of the Flo and Jules Laffal collection; and miscellany. Correspondents include Barbara Archer, Julie Ardery, Didi Barrett, Robert Bishop, Russell Bowman, Barbara Brackman, Roger Cardinal, Robert Cargo, Richard Edson, Richard Gasperi, Anton Haardt, John Maizels, Roger McKay, Randall Morris, Marcia Muth Ann F. Oppenhimer, Tom Patterson, Chuck Rosenak, Allie Light and Irving Saraf, John Turner (regarding his manuscript on Howerd Finster), Willem Volkersz, Maude Wahlman, and others. Also included are letters from Howard and Pauline Finster, writings, and color copies of photographs concerning a surprise party honoring Howard Finster on his 67th birthday, November 12, 1983, in Trion, Georgia, organized by Florence and Jules Laffal; a typescript of a talk delivered by Florence Laffal at the symposium "The Cutting Edge, 20th Century American Fok Art Panel: Age of Discovery, 1960-1990"; photographs (mounted on foamcore) are of John Vivolo, Minnie Black, Jack Savitsky, Edgar Tolson, Jimmie Lee Sudduth, Carl McKenzie, William Dawson, and Felicien Levesque that were included in the exhibition 20th Century Folk Art from the Collection of Flo and Jules Laffal at the Lyman Allyn Museum, New London, Conn, 1997.
A resume; correspondence, 1954-1991, mainly regarding teaching positions at Seattle University and commissions; 7 sketches for mural projects; art inventories, 1970 and 1987; writings, including biographical notes, and a portion of his M.F.A. thesis "Hard Edge Variations," 1964; exhibition announcements; clippings; photographs of Laigo in his studio, Laigo with his paintings, and his family; 2 video tapes, 1990, taken by Marvin Herard of Laigo discussing his murals at the Seattle University Library.
ADDITION : A chronology; awards; clippings; magazine articles; writings; obituary; correspondence; and two video tapes, including Wing Luke Art Museum's January 29, 1994 Auction Honoring Val Laigo, and Seattle University Laigo Retrospective Show at the Kinsey Gallery, October 6 to November 19, 1992.
The scattered papers of sculptor Frances Kent Lamont measure 0.7 linear feet and date from 1909 to 1970. Papers include letters, a school notebook, printed material, two scrapbooks, sketches, and photographs including family snapshots, portraits, and photos of works of art.
Correspondence includes scattered letters from Mrs. Horace Wilson Bennett, Florence Lamont Hinman, Carl Milles, and Boardman Robinson. A notebook labeled "The Bennett School" includes a scholarly paper on anatomy and includes drawings of figures.
Photographs depict Lamont with her sculpture and sculpting, friends, family, colleagues, and of works of art. Of note is a photo from 1909 of Lamont with Samuel Clemens, "Mark Twain," in Bermuda.
Printed materials consist of art related publications, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and a theater program for a 1931 production in which Lamont appeared. Also found are two scrapbooks. One dates from 1911 to 1916 and includes autographs of school friends, letters, and handmade holiday cards and birthday greetings. A dismantled scrapbook from circa 1920 to circa 1960 contains records relating to Lamont's sculpting career and includes clippings, letters, and photographs. Signed and unsigned sketches are of figures, animals, children, and objects.
Files for exhibitions, sales, projects, grants, commissions, and studio business, containing correspondence, financial papers, sketches, writings, clippings, and photographs, including one of Paul and Hazel Strand with Joseph Hirsch in the "J.L. Works... Paris Show 1952" file. Also included are biographical material; engagement calendars; and proposal, notes and correspondence about a grant for a University without walls at the Pratt Institute.
Two handwritten drafts of Lansil's memoir "A Trip to Venice," 1914. Lansil describes Venice, his reactions to it and his intention to study art there.
The Jack Lenor Larsen papers measure 3.7 linear feet and date from 1941-2003. Larson was a renowned weaver and designer, entrepreneur, and a scholar who wrote and lectured on modernist design. His career in the New York design world is documented by biographical materials, correspondence, writings by and about him, various printed materials and photographs.
Found are biographical materials and artifacts including items from his early years, 4 volumes of daily planners and numerous awards. Correspondence includes letters from notables such as Isamu Noguchi, Walter F. Mondale, and various craft artists such as Helen W. Drutt English, Magdalena Abakanowicz, and Beatrice Wood, and author Hannah Tillich, widow of Paul Tillich. Business correspondence is from museums, professional societies, magazines and other organizations such as the Josef Albers Foundation. Larsen also curated textile exhibitions and there are records pertaining to these exhibitions.
There are a substantial number of writings, lectures and speeches by Larsen, and proofs of a book he co-authored with Mildred Constantin, Beyond Craft: The Art of Fabric. Also found are writings about Larsen and 3 interviews with him including a 1965 videotaped interview, 2 transcribed interviews, and an audio tape of Larsen's talk "Personal Perspective," presented at a conference of the American Craft Council.
Photographs show Larsen and his employees at work and at professional events. Photographs removed from albums retain their original order. Lastly, there are printed materials include catalogs and announcements, newspaper and magazine clippings, and press and promotional materials.
Biographical material consists mostly of diplomas, honorary doctorates, and awards and certificates from associations, institutions and colleges. There are 4 volumes of daily planners, an address book, Boy Scout merit badges and sash, and a short genealogical outline.
Oversized material housed in Box 5
This series contains personal and professional correspondence including letters from craft artists and other notables such as Walter F. Mondale, Isamu Noguchi, and Hannah Tillich, (Mrs. Paul Tillich). Also found are greeting cards and postcards from colleagues, friends and family including some artwork as illustrations or enclosures. Professional correspondence includes letters from museums and art institutions, including the American Craft Museum, the Corning Museum of Glass, and the Josef Albers Foundation, design and manufacturing corporations and magazines such as Connoisseur and Contact.
This series is comprised of records of exhibitions at the Bellas Artes Gallery in Santa Fe, New Mexico and the Erie Art Museum in Erie, Pennsylvania, both curated by Larsen. Also found is correspondence, other business documentation, slides and printed material.
Writings by Larsen include a foreword to The Miracle of Ancient at the Peru Merrin Gallery and many lectures, speeches and magazine articles. Larsen lectured at prestigious institutions including the Louvre Museum, The Metropolitan Museum of Art, Rhode Island School of Design, and World Craft Council. Also found are a draft of an unpublished book and articles by Larsen for publications such as American Craft, Art and Antiques and Fiber Arts, I.D. There also are writings about Larsen such as "Body and Soul: Jack Lenor Larsen as Designer and Collector" by David Revere McFadden, Chief Curator at the Museum of Art and Design.
This series includes photographs of Larsen and his employees at work and professional activities. The photographs have been removed from their albums, retaining their original order.
Printed material includes announcements, magazine and newspaper clippings, catalogues and journals. Also found are press materials for Larsen's "Terra Nova" Collection, designed in collaboration with Museum Industries and the Museum of the American Indian and a proof of Beyond Craft: The Art Fabric, a book co-written by Mildred Constantine and Jack Lenor Larsen.
This series consists of a radio interview with Larsen aired on KCBS, San Francisco and a talk titled "Personal Perspective" that Larsen presented at a meeting of the American Craft Council.
19 color slides of the "Times Square Show" in New York, photographed by Susan C. Larsen. Also included is a button "Times Sq. Show 7th Ave. & 41st St.".
Fourteen letters to Toni LaSelle from Hans Hofmann and his wife Maria "Miz" Hofmann; one letter contains a copy of LaSelle's letter to Hofmann, dated Dec. 29, 1949, concerning the seasons as an inspiration for painting. The letter from Hofmann dated Apr. 22, 1960 is written on an exhibition catalog for a Hans Hofmann show at the Kootz Gallery, 1949. Also included is a Western Union telegram dated Apr. 19, 1963 from Alma Wyckoff.
Clippings, photographs and other documents relating to the work of the New Hampshire Federal Art Project, 1935-1942, directed by Omer Lassonde.
One large scrapbook compiled by Lathrop's grandson William Lathrop Bauhan containing: correspondence; photographs of Lathrop, his home, a painting by him and a painting by Annie B. Lathrop; a tempera cartoon by George Clements, ca.1897; exhibition catalogs and announcements; and clippings.
Scrapbook containing: clippings, letters from Varina Jefferson Davis, Daniel Garber, and others; photographs of Latimer, her family, and her works; and source material for her paintings. Also, included are records of the Norfolk Art Corner and Tidewater Artists, with letters to Tidewater Artists president, Bertha Fanning Taylor, and a scrapbook kept by Taylor on "Art Week."
2 Sketchbooks.
REEL 682: A sketchbook dated September 12, 1939, containing 133 pages of pencil sketches.
REEL 722: A sketchbook, undated, containing 49 pencil sketches of landscapes and caricatures.
The papers of Sidney Laufman measure 1.0 linear feet and date from 1916 to 1983. The papers document Laufman's career as a landscape painter through awards, biographical outlines, interviews, and other biographical material; correspondence with family, friends, and art organizations; notebooks, notes, and other writings; receipts, sales records, and other personal business records; clippings, exhibition announcements, exhibition catalogs, and other printed material; and photographs of Laufman and his family and photographs of artwork.
Biographical material includes awards and citations, a biographical outline, an audio reel oral history interview with Laufman, and small oil paintings. Correspondence includes letters from Louis Bouche, Eliot Clark, Ralph Fabri, Leon Kroll, Ethel Magafan, Meyer Schapiro, and art dealers. Writings include typescripts of lectures and writings; five notebooks relating to his techniques, materials, and style, lists of works, and business notes, 1942 to 1952; a journal and a typescript of the journal kept by his wife Beatrice, ca. 1938-1955. Business records include receipts, sales records, and dealings with East End Gallery, Living American Art, and Milch Galleries. Printed material includes newspaper clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, press releases, and programs for the Third Woodstock Art Conference. Photographic material consists of personal photographs of Laufman with family and friends and photographs of Laufman's artwork.
Biographical material includes awards and citations, a biographical outline, an audio reel oral history interview with Laufman, and small oil paintings.
Correspondence includes letters from Louis Bouche, Eliot Clark, Ralph Fabri, Leon Kroll, Ethel Magafan, Meyer Schapiro, and art dealers.
Writings include typescripts of lectures and writings; five notebooks relating to his techniques, materials, and style, lists of works, and business notes, 1942 to 1952; a journal and a typescript of the journal kept by his wife Beatrice, ca. 1938-1955.
Business records include receipts, sales records, and dealings with East End Gallery, Living American Art, and Milch Galleries.
Printed material includes newspaper clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, press releases, and programs for the Third Woodstock Art Conference.
Photographic material consists of personal photographs of Laufman with family and friends and photographs of Laufman's artwork.
An interview with Mary Renk conducted by Jo Lauria, April 28, 2012 for her article on jeweler and designer Margaret De Patta, "Margaret De Patta: Pioneer of Modern Studio," in Ornament magazine, September 2012 issue.
Prints are of line drawings of the human form as a whole and in parts, some with measurements, to be used as a guide to drawing the human body.
Biographical material; 94 letters, 1966-1977, consisting primarily of condolence letters to Lawler's widow, but also letters from Elise Haas about the purchase of a sculpture; a list of art works, undated and 1955; 5 sketches, undated; a consignment list of 3 works of art for exhibit, 1955; exhibition announcements, 1941-1973; clippings, undated and 1950-1977; and 129 photographs, undated and 1941-1978, of Lawler's sculpture.
Letter from Benjamin West to Samuel Adams, May 12, 1788, about Mathew(?) Carey, and a letter from Samuel West to Henry Carey, 1820, about Benjamin West.
The papers of painter, illustrator, and educator Percy Leason measure 1.3 linear feet and 0.402 GB and date from circa 1929 to 2011. The collection documents his career through biographical material, correspondence, diaries, writings and notes, printed and digital material, photographic material, and a scrapbook.
Biographical materials include financial records, biographical statements about the artist, certificates, and a few sketches. Correspondence contains letters and writings of Max Leason, Percy Leason's son, correspondence to and from Percy Leason, letters from congressmen, and letters regarding Leason's work displayed at the State Library of Victoria in Australia. Four diaries document Leason's life over 20 years. A series of published and unpublished writings and notes includes two digital books of Leason's writings. Printed material contains new clippings, gallery flyers, a framed statement about art, and the book The Science of Appearances by Max Meldrum with typed pages written by Leason inserted into the book. Photographic materials include slides and digital photographs of Leason's artwork, personal photographs, and photographs of the State Library of Victoria. One scrapbook contains mostly news clippings and other printed material.
Scattered throughout the collection are annotations made by Max Leason which are usually signed "Max" with the date of annotation.
Biographical material includes an account book, account ledger, biographical statement written by Max Leason, Percy Leason's son, for AskArt.com, and certificates awarded by the Salmagundi Club, the Staten Island Institute of Arts and Sciences, and the Audubon Artists. Also included are six small sketches of figures in historical costume and one sketch of a boat.
Correspondence includes the letters and writings of Max Leason regarding Percy Leason's artwork, membership status, and manuscripts sent to and from printers, museums, and art related organizations. Also within Max Leason's correspondence is a curriculum vitae for Percy Leason. The correspondence of Percy Leason documents his efforts to have his manuscripts published and contains letters expressing his opinions on art. Also found in correspondence are two letters from the U.S. House of Representatives, sent after Leason's death, requesting portraits of John McCormack, Overton Brooks, and James E. Van Zandt. Correspondence with the State Library of Victoria regarding an inventory of Leason's work that was deposited at the library is also included in this series.
This series includes four diaries that span over 20 years. The diaries document Leason's daily activities and thoughts. This series may include letters and news clippings that are either loose or pasted into the diaries.
Found within this series are Leason's notes on A Brief History of Painting, Paleolithic Art, and The Science of Appearances. Also included are published works by Leason in the Proceedings of the Staten Island Institute of Arts and Sciences, The Artist, and Australia. Also included are digital versions of "Artist of Modern Times: the Biography of Percy Leason" by Max Leason and "Experience in Painting: An Analysis of the Visual Impression as Applied to Painting" by Percy Leason, edited by Max Leason.
Printed material consists of news clippings about Max Meldrum, flyers from the Adams, Davidson Galleries, a framed statement about art, and a reporduction of the Dewey Short portrait by Leason with a printed program from the portrait's unveiling. The book by Max Meldrum, The Science of Appearances, has typed writings by Leason inserted into the book where Leason thought appropriate.
Photographic materials contains photographs and digital photographs and slides of Leason's artwork, and some personal photographs showing candid photographs of Leason, a photo of Arlene Francis with her portrait, and Leason at work. Some of the digital images may be duplicates of the slides and photographs.
The scrapbook contains mainly news clippings and other printed material documenting Leason's career in Australia and New York. A few pieces of correspondence and notes are also included.
Biographical information; correspondence; scrapbooks spanning the years 1934-1979, arranged by year or subject and containing correspnondence, clippings, printed material concerning her riding stables in San Antonio. Also, her "Local Painter of the Year Exhibit," 1953, at the Witte Museum, San antonio; the honorary degree of Doctor of Letters bestowed by Incarnate Word College, 1965; various exhibitions catalogs, photographs, invitations and announcements. There are also 12 bound volumes of scripts from Lee's radio program, "Call Board," 1947-1951.
The papers of architect Harold E. Leeds measure 0.8 linear feet and date from 1940s-circa 2002. The letters found here are primarily from painter Loren MacIver writing from France, during which time Leeds looked after the home belonging to MacIver and her husband, poet Lloyd Frankenberg. While mainly logistical in nature, MacIver does describe aspects of her daily life in France, and her and Frankenberg's friendships with prominent figures including Margaret Barr, Elizabeth Bishop, Pierre Matisse, and James Johnson Sweeney. The photographs in the collection document Leeds' life with partner and documentary filmmaker Wheaton Galentine, and Leeds' work as an architect and interior design professor at Pratt Institute.
Letters date from 1950s-1970 and are primarily from Loren MacIver to Harold Leeds, who was caretaker of her and her husband's home in the West Village during their stays in France. While mainly logistical in nature, MacIver does describe aspects of her daily life in France, and her and Frankenberg's friendships with prominent figures including Margaret Barr, Elizabeth Bishop, Pierre Matisse, and James Johnson Sweeney. MacIver typically signed the letters from herself and Frankenberg, using "L, L" or "LoLo" for Loren and Lloyd. A few other letters are found here, including one to Lloyd Frankenberg.
Photographic material dates from 1940s-circa 2002 and includes hundreds of prints of Leeds and his partner Galentine, and about fifty negatives. Many are travel pictures from various trips they took together to Martha's Vineyard, Vermont, Sweden, London, and other destinations. Also found here are interior views of Leeds and Galentine's residences at 4 East 48th Street, 64 Perry Street, and 208 East 58th Street in Manhattan. Photographs of friends and others includes one print of MacIver and Frankenberg, several of Victoria Kent at Louise Crane's country home, and others.
A resume and a statement of purpose; correspondence, including letters from Adolf Gottlieb, Arthur Millier, Ralph Fabri, and Lee Kalcheim; lecture notes from a course given by Tony Smith at Hunter College, New York; and a clipping.
Biographical information; exhibition catalogs, announcements and clippings; business receipts and letters; 142 photographs and 15 slides of Lehman and his works from 1920-1970's; 5 sketchbooks; 1 album cover; 3 scrapbooks; 57 small sketches, watercolors, and prints; and a list of purchasers.
The collection measures 17.6 linear feet and dates from 1903 to 1999 (bulk 1924-1992) and documents the career of advertising designer and executive Douglas Leigh. Found are 83 volumes of publicity scrapbooks that contain mostly photographs, clippings, printed materials, and scattered letters, drawings, and blueprints. Also included are professional correspondence; photographs of project installations, aerial advertising, and entertainers; plaques and awards received by Leigh; and printed material, which includes clippings, press kits, advertising materials, designs and original sketches for projects by Leigh. The material reflects Leigh's continuously imaginative use of a wide range of innovative media in promoting his clients' products.
Among the projects and campaigns represented in the papers are 7up, Airships (Tydol, Flying Red Horse, MGM, Wonder Bread and others), Allied Chemical Tower, Amoco, BlueCross-Blue Shield, Camel cigarettes, Coca-Cola, EPOK, Eveready, Flamingo Frozen Foods, Four Roses Whiskey, Fram Oil Filters, Helmsley Building, Old Gold Cigarettes, Pan Am Building, Pepsi-Cola, R. J. Reynolds, Schaefer Beer, Spectaculars, Stag Beer, Times Tower Building, and Wilson Whiskey.
The Personal Scrapbooks Series (.06 linear feet) consists of 4 scrapbooks that contain photographs, letters, and printed material that document Douglas Leigh's interaction with family, friends, and colleagues.
The General Scrapbooks Series (4.0 linear feet) consists of 16 scrapbooks containing clippings, miscellaneous printed material, letters, interview transcripts, artwork, photographs, and a metal Tydol pin that document the development of miscellaneous projects by Douglas Leigh and his company.
The Billboard Project Files Series (5.0 linear feet) consists primarily of scrapbooks, photographs, and individual product files that document the development of billboard advertising projects.
The Poster Project Files Series (1.6 linear feet) consists of notes, reports, artwork, photographs, miscellaneous printed material, 4 scrapbooks, and individual product files that document the development of poster advertising projects, primarily those used on Railway Express Agency delivery trucks.
The Dirigible Project Files Series (3.7 linear feet) consists of notes, reports, artwork, photographs, miscellaneous printed material, 12 scrapbooks, and individual product files that document the development of dirigible advertising projects involving both painted logos and networks of lights over the surface of the dirigible. These sequentially-timed lights caused dramatic animated effects against the night sky.
The Urban Improvement Project Files Series (2.2 linear feet) consists of photographs, a promotion book, clippings, miscellaneous printed material, 18 scrapbooks, and individual urban improvement project files that document the development of urban improvement projects involving both the construction design of new buildings and the lighting of prominent buildings in New York City and elsewhere.
Military records document Leigh's service in the U.S. Navy during World War II. Biographical material includes certificates of membership in naval and real estate organizations, and award plaques and certificates. Records are arranged chronologically.
The chronologically-arranged correspondence consists of business letters that do not directly relate to a specific project.
Notes consist of address lists of business associates, a haphazard collection of clippings entitled "Recognition of Results Obtained," and miscellaneous notes.
This series consists of miscellaneous poems and a typescript of remarks by James Felt to the Broadway Association.
Artwork consists of three caricatures of Douglas Leigh by Faruk Alpkurt.
Photographs are of Douglas Leigh, his boyhood home, family members, and business colleagues. Photographs of Leigh and business colleagues ca. 1939 include a photo of Mickey Rooney. An album contains photographs of office parties at Douglas Leigh, Inc.
Printed material including clippings, brochures, picture postcards, 2 books, a sample book of business stationery, and miscellaneous printed material.
These personal scrapbooks contain photographs, letters, and printed material documenting Douglas Leigh's interaction with family, friends, and colleagues. One scrapbook contains photographs of Leigh's parents and a skiing holiday. The other scrapbooks record annual business luncheons of the New York Sales Executive Club and the Broadway Association. Personal Scrapbook 3 contains 2 letters and a photograph of John D. Rockefeller III.
The sixteen general scrapbooks found here contain clippings, miscellaneous printed material, letters, interview transcripts, artwork, and photographs documenting the development of miscellaneous projects by Douglas Leigh and his company. General Scrapbook 1 contains a cartoon of Douglas Leigh by Stookie Allen. General Scrapbook 13 contains a metal pin reading "Honorary Tydol Pilot/ Feb 1947."
This series consists primarily of 29 scrapbooks and photographs documenting the development of billboard advertising projects, including Leigh's inventions of the Leigh-EPOK Electric Display Board and the Tri-Vision Billboard. Also found are notes, letters, interview transcripts, clippings, miscellaneous printed material, and individual product files. Scrapbooks have been consecutively numbered within this series. Scrapbooks containing material concerning multiple products appear before those concerning individual products. Leigh referred to his billboards as "Spectaculars" because they often were illuminated or displayed mechanized animation.
Canada Dry Sign 
Chevrolet Sign 
Planters Peanuts Sign 
2 Views of Times Square
Coca-Cola Sign
Columbus Circle
Billboard Scrapbook 8 includes a photo of Joan Crawford; Billboard Scrapbook 9 includes a photo of cartoonist Otto Soglow; Billboard Scrapbook 10 includes photos of dancers Bill Robinson and the De Marcos; and Billboard Scrapbook 16 includes a photo of Sophia Loren.
Billboard Scrapbook 25 includes photographs of Broadway performers Joan McCracken, June Havoc, Bambi Linn, and the De Marcos; Wilson Whiskey Billboard Scrapbook 27 includes a photograph of Joan Crawford.
Black Horse Ale
Bond
Clothes
Chevrolet
Flamingo
Pepsi-Cola
This series consists of notes, reports, artwork, photographs, miscellaneous printed material, 4 scrapbooks, and individual product files that document the development of poster advertising projects, primarily those used on Railway Express Agency delivery trucks that would circulate the poster advertisements throughout urban areas. Individual product files typically contain photographs, notes, clippings, and other printed materials. Although scrapbooks have been consecutively numbered within this series, they either focus on multiple projects or are solely associated with one project and arranged with that project. There is also a file concerning the Shopping Center Network Semaphore Poster Display that involved the placement of hanging posters on light poles in shopping center parking lots.
This series consists of notes, reports, artwork, photographs, miscellaneous printed material, 12 scrapbooks, and individual product files that document the development of dirigible advertising projects involving both painted logos and networks of lights over the surface of the dirigible. Sequentially-timed lights caused dramatic animated effects against the night sky. Individual Product/Project Files are arranged alphabetically and typically contain photographs, scrapbooks, printed material, and scattered drawings. Leigh compiled scrapbooks of general information on dirigible advertising and for specific dirigible projects. General scrapbooks have been arranged by date and are interspersed throughout the series and specific project scrapbooks have been arranged with the appropriate product/project file.
Drawings for Ford Automobile Advertisements
Photograph of Ford Automobile Dirigible on Runway
Photograph of Ford Automobile Dirigible in Flight
Artwork for Knickerbocker Beer
Poster for Knickerbocker Beer
Photograph of Mobiloil Dirigible on Runway
Poster of R & H Beer Dirigible
This series consists of photographs, a promotion book, clippings, miscellaneous printed material, 18 scrapbooks, and individual project files that document the development of Leigh's urban improvement projects involving both the construction design of new buildings and the lighting of prominent buildings in New York City and elsewhere. Project files typically contain photographs, printed materials, notes, floorplans, blueprints, and scattered letters. The 18 consecutively numbered scrapbooks document both individual project files and general multiple projects. Scrapbooks containing material concerning multiple products have been numbered first.
Letters to Lembark, a receipt, photographs and slides, printed material, and a video.
Letters are to Lembark from sculptors George Rickey (1 letter and 4 cards, 1972-1997), and Duane Hanson (7 letters and 3 postcards, 1988-1997); and a receipt for the purchase of a work by Harry Bertoia. The correspondence relates to work in progress and invitations to exhibitions. Also found are 6 folders about Sam Francis which include his obituaries, printed material (articles and exhibition announcements), reviews and articles of Lembark's book "The Prints of Sam Francis: a Catalogue Raisonne, 1960-1990," book catalogues for the book, price list of Francis' prints, and press releases about the book; 3 rolls of negatives with contact sheets taken in the studios of Francis and Joan Mitchell; printed material and slides on Rickey, Arthur Gibson, and Stephen Antonakos; and a video tape "Eric Orr: Prime Matter."
Correspondence; biographical material; sketchbooks; photographs; writings; exhibition catalogs and announcements; clippings; and printed material.
REEL 108: 19 letters and cards; newspaper clippings; exhibition catalogs and announcements; miscellany; writings and sketches for Lentelli's book "Do and Don't in Drawing and Form"; sketches; a photo scrapbook; and ca. 380 photographs of Lentelli, his models, family, friends, and works of art.
REEL 3813: Biographical material, 1894-1898, consisting of 6 diplomas from the Scuola Professionale per le Arti Decorative, Bologna and from R. Istituto de Belle Arti in Bologna; correspondence; art works, consisting of 2 sketchbooks and 5 loose drawings; photographs, of Lentelli, his family, friends, studio, and works of art; printed material, including clippings; exhibition announcements and catalogs; reproductions of works of art; and miscellaneous printed material.
A receipt from the firm of Frederick Keppel for a woodcut by Albrecht Durer, sold for 5 dollars to the Rev. W. A. Leonard on March 15, 1875. The receipt is signed by Keppel's assistant, W[illiam] Macbeth.
This edition contains only numbers 1-12, biographies of John James Audubon, John Caldwell Calhoun, Lewis Cass, William Ellery Channing, Henry Clay, Millard Fillmore, John Charles Fremont, William Hickling Prescott, Winfield Scott, Zachary Taylor, Daniel Webster, and Silas Warner. Also included with each biography is the semi-monthly journal, FLY LEAF OF ART AND CRITICISM.
A letter to Levinson from John Sloan, June 29, 1917, written from Gloucester, Massachusetts. Sloan wrote that he "will welcome you and Sparrow [to Gloucester]...we have two extra rooms where you can lodge quite comfortably and perhaps work indoors some..."; and a letter, September 26, [1947], from Helen Farr Sloan to Mrs. Levinson enclosing a statement by Sloan on Levinson's work for the catalog of a memorial exhibition at the Art Students League, 1947.
A resume; exhibition catalogs and announcements, ca. 1967-1983; clippings, ca. 1974-1983; illustrated letters from Levin to his father Meyer Levin and his stepmother, Tereska Levin, ca.1964-1974; a 73 p. typescript of Levin's recollections of his mother Mable Levin; poems, 1949; typescripts of Levin's essays on Arthur E. Haddock, Joseph Henry Sharp, the relationship between psychiatry and art, and contemporary Indian art; an undated transcript of Levin's interview with Fremont F. Ellis; a typescript of Meyer Levin's autobiography "In Love"; typescripts of Meyer Levin's essays on the 1977 Santa Fe Armory Show, his son Eli, and the Santa Fe art boom; price lists for works of art, 1973 and 1983; biographical data; a sketchbook, 1974-1984; and photographs and a photograph album of Levin and his paintings and sculpture.
Miscellaneous art related letters, pamphlets and catalogs selected from the Library Company of Philadelphia's manuscript collections. Included are a group of letters to Albert Newsam, treasurer of the Gallaudet Monument Association, regarding the monument to Rev. Thomas Gallaudet. Miscellaneous artists' letters include: Charles Willson Peale, Franklin Peale, Rembrandt Peale, Titian Peale, William Kneass, Alexander Anderson, John Neagle, Joseph O. Pyatt, John Sartain, P.S. Duval, William Rush, Benjamin West, Emanuel Leutze, Hiram Powers, Calvert Vaux, Thomas Sully, Joshua Shaw, and others.
Miscellaneous printed material includes pamphlets on works by Hiram Powers, 1847 and 1848, Charles Steinhauser, 1848, Peter F. Rothermel, 1852, G.P.A. Healy, 1832?, and Margareeta Hinchman; auction catalogs for "The Meade Gallery," Mar. 15, 1853, the collection of Solomon W. Roberts, Apr. 26-27, 1883, the collection of Joseph Bonaparte, Count de Survilliers, Sept. 17-18, 1845, and Joseph Napoleon Bonaparte, June 25, 1847; catalogs for the Albany Gallery of the Fine Arts' Third exhibition, 1848, and the Library Company's portrait collection; and "Modern Art Education" by Joseph Langl, 1875.
The Ira Licht papers measure 0.8 linear feet and date from 1963-1991. The papers document Licht's career as an art historian and museum professional. Included is professional and personal correspondence with artists during his career as curator at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago, coordinator of the Art in Public Places Program of the National Endowment for the Arts, and director of the University of Miami's Lowe Art Museum and relate to projects and funding. The letters are from many notable artists at early stages in their careers, which provides insight into how they built success from an early point. Some letters have photographs and printed material enclosed. Artist files are arranged alphabetically by name and include writings on and by artists, resumes and project descriptions, photographic prints, slides of artists' artwork, press clippings, correspondence and exhibition catalogs. Exhibition files consist of planning documents, exhibition catalogs, correspondence related to and press releases for exhibitions Licht curated. Of note is an catalog for Bodyworks a 1975 group exhibition Licht curated for the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago. The papers also include printed material which consists of exhibition announcements, invitations, and posters.
This series contains professional and personal correspondence with artists during Licht's career as curator at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago, the coordinator of the Art in Public Places Program of the National Endowment for the Arts, and director of the University of Miami's Lowe Art Museum and relate to projects and funding. The letters are from many notable artists at early stages in their careers, which provides insight into how they built success from an early point. Some letters have photographs and printed material enclosed. Correspondence is arranged alphabetically.
Artist files are arranged alphabetically by name and include writings on and by artists, resumes and project descriptions, photographic prints, slides of artists' artwork, press clippings, correspondence and exhibition catalogs.
Exhibition files are arranged alphabetically by name and consist of planning documents, exhibition catalogs, correspondence related to and press releases for exhibitions Licht curated. Of note is an exhibition catalog for Bodyworks a 1975 group exhibition Licht curated for the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago.
Printed material consists of exhibition announcements, invitation cards and posters.
Correspondence between Evan Lindquist and Mary Kretsinger, 1970- 1996, and letters from James M. Ray to Evan Lindquist, 1972- 2001.
The records of Seattle's avant-garde Linda Farris Gallery measure 13.4 linear feet and date from 1969-1995. The bulk of the records consist of artists' and exhibition files. Also found are gallery business correspondence, administrative files, event files, reference files, records of sales, scattered legal files, the personal papers of gallery owner Linda Farris, and printed materials.
Business correspondence is with galleries, dealers, publishers, museums, and other businesses. Administrative files are varied and include advertising and promotion materials, exhibition schedules, mailing lists, guest books, a scrapbook, and gallery history.
Artists' files are found for many contemporary American artists that interested Linda Farris or were represented by the gallery. The contents of each file vary but many include photographs and slides, writings, correspondence, and printed materials. Files for Lynda Barry, Grisha Brusking, Charles Clough, Ronnie Landfield, Charles Luce, Michael Lucerno, Sherry Markovitz, Louise Nevelson, Barbara Noah, and Beverly Pepper are particularly rich. Exhibition files are for Linda Farris Gallery exhibitions and include printed materials, correspondence, loan and consignment agreements, and photographs.
Event files cover anniversary celebrations, lectures, panel discussions, and receptions. There are 17 sound cassette recordings of "Art Now" lectures and "Focus" panel discussions. Scattered reference files contain collected materials on subjects of interest to the gallery. There are scattered financial, sales, and legal files. Sales records cover 1970-1979.
Linda Farris' personal papers contain printed materials about her and the gallery and other materials concerning her professional and curatorial work outside of the gallery. There is also a transcript of an oral history with Farris and a news interview.
Printed materials include published books and magazines, clippings and exhibition catalogs and announcements.
Photographs are scattered throughout administrative files, exhibition files, event files, and Linda Farris' personal papers.
General business correspondence is between owner Linda Farris and galleries, dealers, publishers, museums, and other businesses; some with enclosures such as photographs and brochures. Topics covered include orders and payments for art works, invitations and exhibition announcements from other galleries, and general business issues. Additional correspondence is found in other series as well.
Administrative records include advertising and promotion materials, mailing lists, owner's notes, exhibition schedules, forms, corporate leads and information, guest books, gallery history information, including opening, early years and closing, office wall materials (space devoted to arts information on wall of gallery), photographs and slides of the gallery and Linda Farris, and a scrapbook on various artists for client use.
The Artists and Exhibition files contain a wide variety of materials created and collected by Linda Farris Gallery on artists and exhibitions. Artists' files for Lynda Barry, Grisha Brusking, Charles Clough, Ronnie Landfield, Charles Luce, Michael Lucerno, Sherry Markovitz, Louise Nevelson, Barbara Noah, and Beverly Pepper are particularly rich. Notable exhibitions covered include "My Neighbor the Kingdom" with nearly 30 artists participating in an exhibit coordinated with the opening of the stadium, "Self Portraits" with works by 47 artists, including Andy Warhol, Robert Mapplethorpe, and Edvard Munch, and "Eight Seattle Artists" held at the Los Angeles Institute of Contemporary Art.
Artists' files contain a wide variety of materials either created by or collected and collated by Linda Farris Gallery, such as photographs and slides, correspondence, exhibition catalogs, writings, publicity, and price lists.
Exhibition files are for Linda Farris Gallery exhibitions and include announcements, brochures, clippings, correspondence, loan and consignment agreements, notes, press releases, price lists, posters, photographic materials, and background material. The amount of material varies widely from file to file.
Events included anniversary celebrations, lectures and panel discussions, and receptions. Panel discussion series include "Conversations" as part of the Goodwill Arts Festival, "Focus I" and "Focus II." The "Farris Wheel" was a series of lectures, discussions and tours. Included in these records are 17 sound cassettes including recordings of "Art Now" lectures and "Focus" panel discussions, three are unlabeled and one is illegible. There is also Seattle's mayor's proclamation of January 7, 1985 as Linda Farris Day, found in the fifteenth anniversary file.
Lectures and panels presumably held at the gallery including Minimal Art/Post Painterly Abstraction, Panel Art of the 70s, Art Now Assemblage, Abstract Expressionism Lecture II.
Focus panel discussions, possibly 2 copies of each, some spanning multiple tapes: The Galleries, The Critics, The Artists, The Collectors.
Unlabeled, appear to be related to other groups of sound cassettes above, possibly copies of lectures.
Includes clippings, brochures, booklets, photographs and transparencies, correspondence, and
notes. Subjects include collecting contemporary art, soviet artists, photographs of artworks, art controversies, New York art galleries and art world, the Otis Art Institute, modern tapestries, Pioneer Square, potential artists, and Pilchuck Glass School.
Included in this series are sales records, price lists, receipts, and information on works out of the gallery, including loan and consignment agreements and correspondence.
This series contains articles by and about Linda Farris and the gallery, clippings, photographs, brochures and flyers, correspondence about arts issues and funding, notes and writings, and a certificate of appreciation for Festival '72 from Seattle Center. Topics covered include the owner's activities and curation outside her own gallery, articles written by Ms. Farris, the ArtFair/Seattle Advisory Committee, the Goodwill Games Visual Arts Subcommittee, the Seattle Art Dealers Association, Ms. Farris's participation in the campaign to keep the Henry Moore sculpture "Vertebrae" in Seattle, an Art for the YWCA project, University of Washington Henry Art Gallery board membership, her involvement in a lecture visit by collectors Herb and Dorothy Vogel, and transcripts of a 1975 Archives of Northwest Art oral history by Sally Swenson, and of a 1989 interview by Ted Rinaldo.
Printed Materials include books, clippings, magazines, press releases, and exhibition announcements, brochures and catalogs, collected by the gallery. Subjects include Isamu Noguchi, Russian art, prints, northwest artists and exhibitions, and architecture.
The Jacques Lipchitz papers and Bruce Bassett papers concerning Jacques Lipchitz measure 52.8 linear feet and are dated circa 1910-2001, with the bulk of the material from the period 1941-2001. Papers are comprised of sculptor Jacques Lipchitz's personal papers and filmmaker Bruce Bassett's papers relating to Jacques Lipchitz. Lipchitz's personal papers contain personal and professional correspondence, comprising nearly half of the series, along with biographical material, writings by and about Lipchitz, printed material, and photographs documenting Lipchitz's commissions, exhibitions, friendships, and interests. Also found are records relating to the compilation and production of The Sculpture of Jacques Lipchitz: A Catalogue Raisonné by Alan G. Wilkinson. The Bruce Bassett papers relating to Jacques Lipchitz consist mainly of Bassett's extensive audiovisual documentation of Lipchitz's life and art. Also found are paper records related to the audiovisual projects, including letters, business records, printed materials, and production records. A small quantity of material unrelated to Lipchitz is also found among the Bassett material, including video and sound recordings related to Sidney Lifchez, IBM, Isamu Noguchi, the Storm King Sculpture Center, and Auguste Rodin.
The Jacques Lipchitz biographical material includes an address book, biographical notes, membership cards, rent receipts and a lease, and a survey of Lipchitz's property in Hastings-on-Hudson, NY.
Correspondence is both professional and personal in nature. Approximately 20 percent is in foreign languages. French predominates, followed by Russian; German, Dutch, Italian, Spanish, Latvian, Hebrew, and Yiddish are also represented.
Professional correspondence documents business transactions with architects, potential clients, museum officials, art dealers, and others concerning commissions, exhibition plans, loans of artwork, jury service, etc. Art groups, Jewish organizations and charities wrote to solicit donations of artwork for fundraising events and issued invitations to speak or be a guest of honor. Scholars contacted Lipchitz about their research and requested information about specific works by him, items in his collection, and his opinions on a variety of subjects. Also found are fan letters from aspiring artists seeking advice, and from the general public asking for the opportunity to meet Lipchitz and visit his studio. After the 1952 studio fire, many friends and strangers sent letters of condolence and encouragement.
Correspondence with wife Yulla, nephew Gyorgy Hay, and close friends recounts personal and family news, activities, and sometimes touches on future plans. Among these correspondents are: Jenny Courtois, Varian and Annette Fry, Leo Gaspard, R. Sturgis Ingersoll, Gregorio Landau, Juan and Marianne Larrea, Camille Soula, and Joel and Celeste Starrels.
Eleven small pocket diaries, 1940-1965, contain brief, often sporadic entries noting appointments, events, addresses and phone numbers, notes of expenses, and include some sketches. Among the other writings by Lipchitz are: a notebook containing random notes on sculpture; a list of sculptures destroyed in the 1952 studio fire; short pieces and fragments of writings about sculptors Mary Frank, Natan Rapoport, Auguste Rodin, and William Zorach; a memoir of Amedeo Modigliani; and articles and reflections on contemporary art and the church.
Catalogue raisonné records concern the compilation and production of The Sculpture of Jacques Lipchitz: A Catalogue Raisonné by Alan G. Wilkinson, sponsored by Marlborough Gallery, Inc.
Among the financial records are statements of the sculptor's accounts with Buchholz Gallery and Curt Valentin Gallery, and receipts for Lipchitz Collection purchases. Also found are insurance and tax records, as well as receipts for routine professional expenses and miscellaneous personal expenses.
Artwork consists of a few rough sketches by Lipchitz and several geometric designs by an unidentified artist. Two scrapbooks, 1945-1946, consist of newspaper clippings and a few items from other periodicals that mention Lipchitz or contain reproductions of his work. Volume 2 includes typescripts of an interview and remarks delivered by Lipchitz, both very brief.
Printed material consists of exhibition catalogs and announcements, articles, press releases, books, programs, and reproductions concerning Lipchitz's exhibitions, sculpture, commissions, and events honoring him. Of particular interest are architectural prints showing sites and project details of several commissions. Also found are a variety of printed items about general art topics.
Photographs document people, artwork, project sites and models, exhibition installations, events, and places. People include Jacques Lipchitz, family members, and other individuals. Artwork represented is by Lipchitz and other artists. Views of Lipchitz exhibition installations mainly document solo shows. Photographs of events record a variety of occasions, among them: the opening of Lipchitz's studio in Hastings-on-Hudson, NY; a dedication ceremony for Philip Johnson's Roofless Church in New Harmony, IN, with ornamental gates and a sculpture by Lipchitz; and Lipchitz addressing an anatomy class at Albert Einstein Medical College. Among the pictures of places are Lipchitz's studios in Hastings-on-Hudson, NY, and Pietrasanta, Italy, and a view of Picasso's Paris studio.
The Bruce Bassett papers relating to Jacques Lipchitz contain mostly audiovisual materials from sound and film documentation projects conducted by Bassett with Lipchitz. Found are original sound recordings and photographs from Deborah Stott's 200 hour oral history with Jacques Lipchitz, as well as detailed, typewritten summaries of its content. Records from Bassett's film projects about Lipchitz include original film and sound recordings from Bassett's 40 hours of interviews with Lipchitz from 1971, and film documentation of the posthumous installations of Lipchitz's large-scale sculptures in Philadelphia, New York, and Israel in the late 1970s. In addition to the raw footage from these projects, which is incomplete, the collection contains workprint and final, edited works Bassett created in multiple versions and formats, and paper records documenting the film projects' creation, production, and later use.
Among the papers related to the film projects are scripts, an index to original footage, programming notes, film lab records, exhibition materials, an extensive collection of questions about Lipchitz gathered from the public for the interactive project, and other production records. Other papers include letters from Lipchitz and his wife, business correspondence, financial records, contracts, project files, and printed materials. Other projects by Bassett, unrelated to Lipchitz, are documented in video and sound recordings related to Sidney Lifchez, IBM, Isamu Noguchi, the Storm King Sculpture Center, and Auguste Rodin.
The papers of sculptor Jacques Lipchitz measure 9.5 linear feet and are dated circa 1910-1999, with the bulk of the material from the period 1941-1999. Personal and professional correspondence comprises nearly half of the collection. It, along with biographical material, writings by and about Lipchitz, printed material, and photographs document Lipchitz's commissions, exhibitions, friendships, and interests. Also found are records relating to the compilation and production of The Sculpture of Jacques Lipchitz: A Catalogue Raisonné by Alan G. Wilkinson.
Biographical material includes an address book, biographical notes, membership cards, rent receipts and a lease, and a survey of Lipchitz's property in Hastings-on-Hudson, NY.
Correspondence is both professional and personal in nature. Approximately 20 percent is in foreign languages. French predominates, followed by Russian; German, Dutch, Italian, Spanish, Latvian, Hebrew, and Yiddish are also represented.
Professional correspondence documents business transactions with architects, potential clients, museum officials, art dealers, and others concerning commissions, exhibition plans, loans of artwork, jury service, etc. Art groups, Jewish organizations and charities wrote to solicit donations of artwork for fundraising events and issued invitations to speak or be a guest of honor. Scholars contacted Lipchitz about their research and requested information about specific works by him, items in his collection, and his opinions on a variety of subjects. Also found are fan letters from aspiring artists seeking advice, and from the general public asking for the opportunity to meet Lipchitz and visit his studio. After the 1952 studio fire, many friends and strangers sent letters of condolence and encouragement.
Among those with whom Lipchtz corresponded regarding commissions are: The Brazilian Embassy ( Prometheus Strangling the Vulture, Ministry of Health and Education, Rio de Janeiro), Vicomte Charles de Noailles ( The Joy of Life) [photocopies of letters from Lipchitz], Jean Devémy (Nôtre Dame de Liesse, Nôtre Dame de Toute Grace at Assy, France), Jane Blaffer Owen (ornamental gates and a cast of Nôtre Dame de Liesse for Philip Johnson's Roofless Church in New Harmony, IN), and the University of Minnesota, Duluth ( Daniel Greysolon, Sieur du Luth). There are numerous letters from Fairmount Park Art Association, Philadelphia Museum of Art, and R. Sturgis Ingersoll regarding multiple projects in Philadelphia; from the Emory Memorial and Robert Taft, Jr. about a memorial to Senator Taft; and from Eloise Spaeth concerning a bust of John F. Kennedy. Also documenting commissions are letters from architects, among them: Eero Saarinen and Associates, Kenneth Franzheim, Philip L. Goodwin, I. M. Pei and Associates, Philip L. Goodwin, and Vincent G. Kling and Associates.
Art dealers, galleries, and museums were frequent correspondents. They include: The Baltimore Museum of Art, The Bezalel Museum, Brussels Universal and International Exposition, Buchholz Gallery, Cincinnati Art Museum, Corcoran Gallery of Art, Curt Valentin Gallery, Fine Arts Associates (later Otto Gerson Gallery, Inc.), Marlborough-Gerson Gallery, Inc., Museé Bourdelle, Museé National d'Arte Moderne (Paris), Museum of Modern Art (New York), The Museum of Primitive Art, The Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, Philadelphia Museum of Art, Portland Art Museum (Oregon), Rijksmuseum Kröller Muller Otterlo, Stedelijk Museum (Amsterdam), Walker Art Center, Whitney Museum of American Art, and Worcester Art Museum.
Max N. Benoff, Bernard and Becky Reis, and Alan and Janet Wurtzburger were among the collectors who corresponded with Lipchitz. French artist Pierre Dubaut wrote over an extended period about his collection of Géricault paintings and plans for its eventual disposition. Other individuals who wrote frequently include: critic and writer, Waldemar George; Irene Patai, author of Encounters: The Life of Jacques Lipchitz; and Bert Van Bork, documentary filmmaker and author of Jacques Lipchitz, The Artist at Work; and art historian, Henry R. Hope, a professor active in the College Art Association. The America-Israel Cultural Foundation, Inc. and the International Rescue Committee were also frequent correspondents.
Of particular note is a lengthy letter (with drafts) to Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler in which Lipchitz explained in detail how the art dealer's writings about Cubist sculpture failed to adequately recognize his contributions to the genre. Extensive correspondence with Rabbi Schneerson includes thoughts about "graven images" in sculpture and contains lengthy religious discussions. Letters from Juan Gris and Josette Gris consist mainly of general news and pleasantries; they do, however, mention Juan Gris's health, and in one letter Gris states he is afraid of working too much and tiring himself out. While basically illegible, Gertrude Stein's letters seem to be short, quick notes about meetings.
Correspondence with wife Yulla, nephew Gyorgy Hay, and close friends recounts personal and family news, activities, and sometimes touches on future plans. Among these correspondents are: Jenny Courtois, Varian and Annette Fry, Leo Gaspard, R. Sturgis Ingersoll, Gregorio Landau, Juan and Marianne Larrea, Camille Soula, and Joel and Celeste Starrels.
Eleven small pocket diaries, 1940-1965, contain brief, often sporadic entries noting appointments, events, addresses and phone numbers, notes of expenses, and include some sketches. Among the other writings by Lipchitz are: a notebook containing random notes on sculpture; a list of sculpture destroyed in the 1952 studio fire; short pieces and fragments of writings about sculptors Mary Frank, Natan Rapoport, Auguste Rodin, and William Zorach; a memoir of Amedeo Modigliani; and articles and reflections on contemporary art and the church.
Catalogue raisonné records concern the compilation and production of The Sculpture of Jacques Lipchitz: A Catalogue Raisonné by Alan G. Wilkinson, sponsored by Marlborough Gallery, Inc.
Among the financial records are statements of the sculptor's accounts with Buchholz Gallery and Curt Valentin Gallery, and receipts for Lipchitz Collection purchases. Also found are insurance and tax records, as well as receipts for routine professional expenses and miscellaneous personal expenses.
Artwork consists of a few rough sketches by Lipchitz and several geometric designs by an unidentified artist. Two scrapbooks, 1945-1946, consist of newspaper clippings and a few items from other periodicals that mention Lipchitz or contain reproductions of his work. Volume 2 includes typescripts of an interview and remarks delivered by Lipchitz, both very brief.
Printed material consists of exhibition catalogs and announcements, articles, press releases, books, programs, and reproductions concerning Lipchitz's exhibitions, sculpture, commissions, and events honoring him. Of particular interest are architectural prints showing sites and project details of several commissions. Also found are a variety of printed items about general art topics.
Photographs document people, artwork, project sites and models, exhibition installations, events, and places. People include Jacques Lipchitz, family members, and other individuals. Artwork represented is by Lipchitz and other artists. Views of Lipchitz exhibition installations mainly document solo shows. Photographs of events record a variety of occasions, among them: the opening of Lipchitz's studio at Hastings-on-Hudson, NY; a dedication ceremony for Philip Johnson's Roofless Church in New Harmony, IN, with ornamental gates and a sculpture by Lipchitz; and Lipchitz addressing an anatomy class at Albert Einstein Medical College. Among the pictures of places are Lipchitz's studios in Hastings-on-Hudson, NY, and Pietrasanta, Italy, and a view of Picasso's Paris studio.
The citation was awarded to Lipchitz by the U.S. Treasury Department, War Finance Committee for "service rendered in the Seventh War Loan May 14-June 29, 1945." Membership cards are from American Society of the French Legion of Honor, Inc., The French Art Theatre, and Museum of Modern Art. Rent receipts are for 54 Rue du Montparnasse, Paris and Lipchitz's New York studio on East 23rd Street; the lease is for a house in Pietrasanta, Italy. A survey prepared for Lipchitz shows the boundaries of his property in Hastings-on-Hudson, NY.
This series comprises nearly half of the collection. Approximately 20 percent is in foreign languages, primarily French, with a fair amount in Russian; German, Dutch, Italian, Spanish, Latvian, Hebrew and Yiddish represent the remainder. Correspondence consists largely of incoming letters. Surviving copies of Lipchitz's outgoing letters are mainly drafts, and the earliest ones bear corrections by someone with a better command of English. Drafts of replies often appear on the backs of letters or their accompanying envelopes. Some drafts are written on separate sheets of paper, and multiple letters may appear on a single page.
Jacques Lipchitz's correspondence illuminates his professional career and personal life, with the substance of many letters combining both. Professional correspondence with collectors, galleries, and museum personnel concerns commissions, exhibition plans, loans, jury service, etc. Architects also corresponded about commissions, and dealers apprised Lipchitz of new inventory that might be of interest for his collection. Art groups, Jewish organizations, and charities wrote to solicit donations of artwork for fundraising events, and issued invitations to speak or be a guest of honor. Scholars contacted Lipchitz about their research requesting information about specific works, items in the Lipchitz Collection, and his opinions about various issues. Also found are fan letters from aspiring artists seeking advice, and from the general public asking for the opportunity to meet Lipchitz and visit his studio. After the 1952 studio fire, many friends and strangers sent letters of condolence and encouragement. Personal correspondence with close friends, wife Yulla, and a nephew recounts personal and family news, activities, and sometimes touches on future plans.
1770 House
Ablow, Mr.
Abrahamsen, David
Abramson, Samuel H.
Academia di Belli Arte di Brera
Acle, Rose
Adelphi College
Ades, Josiah
Adler, Max
Adler, Stella
Adolph Studley, Inc., Photographer
A.D.T. Company, Inc. 
Advertising Women of New York Incorporated
Agatstein, Louis G.
Albert Einstein Commemorative Dinner
Albert Loeb Gallery
Albright Art Gallery/Albright-Knox Art Gallery
Alexander, Fritz W., II
Al Gongol, Gregory
Al Gongol, Sandy
Alliance in Art
Alpert, Max
Altman, Harold, Anita, and Evan
Ambellan, Harold
Amendola, Robert
American Artist
American Artists Professional League
American Broadcasting Company (ABC)
American Center for Students and Artists
American Committee for Shaare Zedek Hospital in Jerusalem, Inc.
American Craftsmen's Council
American Federation of Arts
American Friends of the Hebrew University
American Fund for Israel Institutions
American Institute of Architects
American International Music Fund, Inc.
American-Israel World's Fair Corporation
American Jewish Committee
American Jewish Congress
American Jewish Tercentenary Committee
American Lithuanian Foundation, Inc.
American Memorial to Six Million Jews of Europe, Inc. 
American Society for Technion, Israel Institute of Technology, Inc., Tenafly (NJ) Chapter Women's Division
American Society of the French Legion of Honor, Inc.
American University
Ames, Winslow
Amherst College
Amis de Nogent
Amis de Soutine
Amkreutz, Agnes
Amman, Max E.
Amoretti, Enrico
Amsterdam, Burgomaster of
André Emmerich Gallery
Anne Landsman Interior Designer
Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith
Antioch College
Antman, Joe
Antwerp, City of
A.P.F., Inc.
Archaeological Artifacts and Antiques, Inc.
Architectural Forum
Architectural League of New York
L'Architecture d'Aujourd'Hui
Archives of American Art
Archivio Storico d'Arte Contemporanea della Biennale
Arfa, Jennie Nusskern
Arnason, H. H.
Arrighini, Nicola
Arroso
Art Association of Indianapolis, Indiana/The John Herron Art Institute
Art Digest
Art Directors' Club, Inc.
Art Gallery of Toronto
Artibus Asiae
Art in America
Art Institute of Chicago
Art Institute of Chicago, Society for Contemporary Art
Art League of Houston
Art of This Century
Art Squad, Inc.
Artistenblad
Artist's Committee for Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee
Artists Equity Association, Chicago Chapter
Artists Equity Association, Philadelphia Chapter
Artists for SEDF (Scholarship, Education and Defense Fund for Racial Equality, Inc.)
Artists Overseas Aid Association
Arts Club of Chicago
Arts Council of Great Britain
Ascher
Aspen Institute for Humanistic Studies
Association Française d'Action Artistique
Association Française Contre la Peine de Mort
Aström, Paul
Atlanta Art Association
Attias, Elaine
Audubon Artists, Inc.
Avant-Garde
Avedon, Richard
Avnet, Lester
Baal-Teshuva, Jacob
Bacal, Jacob
Baker, Bernard
Balestrant, Stephen
Band, Max
Bank of Israel
Bard College
Barnard College Club of Monmouth County, New Jersey
Barnes Foundation
Barr, Alfred H. and Margaret
Barran, Fritz
Barry, Margaret
Bass, Basil N.
Bassett, Bruce
Bastone, James
Bat-Yam Institute for Plastic Art
Bean, Marshall E.
Raymond R. Beatty, Inc.
Beaudin, Nicolas
Becker, Marvin C.
Belgium, Ministere de l'Education Nationale et de la Culture
Bellak, Richard F.
Bennington College
Benson, Emmanuel M. and Gertrude
Bentein, Mrs.
Ben-Yakov, Rudi
Berger, Jason
Berger, S. A.
Berk, Lane Kolker
Berkowitz, Allan A.
Berman, Gizel
Berman, L.
Berman, Mr.
Berman, Mrs.
Bernal Antiquary
Bernard, Eunice 
Bernheimer's Antique Arts
Bertha Schaeffer Gallery
Berthold, Gertrude
Bertrand Russell Peace Foundation
Berus, Hélène
Bet Ami
Biberfeld, J.
Biddle, George
Bienale d'Arte Triveneta
Biennale di Venezia
Bitterman, Eleanor
Blanke
Bleackley, Carol
Bloch, Virginia R. 
Blue Moon Gallery
Blum, Hélène
Boar's Head
Bob, Emil
Bode, Arnold and Marilouise
Bollinger, Hans
Bollt, Robert
Bookstaber, Henry
Booth, Winkie
Borenstein, S.
Borowski, Elie
Boston Arts Festival
Boston University
Braat, L.P.J.
Brandeis Institute
Oversized material housed in OV 11, F1
Brandeis University
Brandeis University National Women's Committee, Philadelphia Chapter
Brein, Arnold
Brent, P.
Brera Produzione Cinematografica
Bright, David E.
Broadcast Recording Service
Brodie, Gandy
Brody, Mrs.
Brooklyn Museum
Brooklyn Society of Artists, Inc.
Brooks, Peggy Jones 
Brown, Edward
Brown, John P.
Brown, Nell
Browne, Ken
Brownstone, Lucien and Ethel
Bruno Tartaglia Transporti Internazionali
Bryson, Clayton J.
Buchholz Gallery
Buessow, Marguerite
Bugnard, Claude
Bureau of Jewish Education
Burke, Phyllis Ann
Burke Literary Representative (Burke, Shirley)
Burstein, Barney
Bush, Mr.
Byron Gallery, Inc.
Cabell, Ellen R.
Calder, Alexander
Calfee, William H.
Callery, Mary
Camemann, Schuyler
Campbell, Robert
Canaday, John and Katherine
Canarsie High School (Brooklyn, NY)
Carlebach Gallery
Carnegie Institute
Carrier, Raffaele
Carruth, Frank, III
Carton, Norman
Casa Editrice Libraria Ulrico Hoepli
Casey, Mrs. Robert B.
Catherwood Foundation
Cato, Robert
Caywood, Ann
C. Dirkan Kelekian Ancient Arts
Cella, Nicole
Center for Cross-Cultural Communication
Century Association
Chandler, Buff 
Chanin, A.
Chappaqua P.T.A. (NY)
Chareau, Dollie
Charles E. Slatkin, Inc. Galleries
Charles H. Voorheees and Co., Inc.
Chase, Prof.
Cherne, Leo
Children's Day Nurseries in Israel
Christian Action
Ciardi, John
City Art Museum of St. Louis
Clemson College
Cleveland Center for the Arts
Cleveland Museum of Art
Clifford, Henry
Coder Taylor Associates, Architects, Engineers, Planners
Cogniat, Raymond
Cohen, Alma
Cohen, Mortimer J.
Cohen, Samuel M.
Cohen, Mr.
Colgate University
College Art Association
Colp, Ralph
Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc. (CBS)
Coluccini Giuliano Artigiano Formatore
Comay, Michael and Joan
Comité du Monument de la Légion d'Honneur et de la Colonne de la Grande Armée 
Conference on the Status of Soviet Jews
Congregation Beth-El (Philadelphia)
Congregation B'nai Jeshurun (New York)
Congregation Ohabai Sholom (Nashville)
Congregation Rodef Sholom (Waco, TX)
Congregation Shaare Zedek (Southfield, MI)
Congrés pour la Liberté de la Culture
Congress for Jewish Culture
Consolidated Edison
Contact
Contemporary Arts Association of Houston, Inc.
Cook, Mr.
Cook, Edith Valet
Coordinating Council of French Relief Societies, Inc.
Coreos, Josie
Cornell Forum
Cornell University
Cornell University, Andrew Dickson White Museum of Art
Corning Museum of Glass
Costa, Ernest
Couturier, Marie-Alain
Couzijn, W.
Cowles, Fleur
Creative Arts Gallery
Crockwell, Douglass
Cross, Christopher
Crown Publishers, Inc.
Cunliffe, Marcus, Mitzi, and Antonia
Dade, Philip L.
Dagblad de Tijd
Dallek, Godfrey H.
Dalsace, Jean and Annie
Dalsheimer, Helen M.
Dambek, Blanche
Daniel, Eve
Darsky, Mr.
Davidson, Abraham A.
Davis, A. R.
Davis, Richard S. and Phyllis
Day, Faith 
D Contemporary Paintings
Déchelette
de Creeft, José
De Dublé, Mercedes García Huidobro
de Hauke, C.
de Henriquez, Alfonso and Marta
Delbanco, Kurt
de Menil
Democratic Party, Artists and Performers National Committee
de Noailles, Marie Laure
De Noto, Joseph
DePauw University
de Ruyter, O.
de Sola Pool, D.
Deutsch, Armand S.
Dickinson, Edwin
Dickson, Louise M.
Dietrich, Volkmar
Dilia Czechoslovak Theatrical and Literary Agency
Direction Générale des Arts et des Lettres
Dissent
Djambatan, Ltd.
Dobkin, Eliahu 
Documenta
Dominique, M. C.
Donohoe, Miss
Dorekens, Guy
Doren, Daniel
Doris Weiner Gallery
Dorra, Henry
Dowling, Robert W.
Downtown Gallery
Dreyfuss, Henry
Drummond, Janet Hickey
Dubuffet, Jean
Duda, Martha
Duluth Herald and Duluth News-Tribune
Duvkin, Elijah
East Cleveland Museum Galleries
Ecuador, Republic of
Edelstein, Mr. and Mrs. Eugene
Éditions d'Art Albert Skira
Éditions des Trois Collines
Editions Mozaika
Edward MacDowell Association, Inc.
Eitner, Lorenz
Elgozy, Georges
Elias, Arthur
Ellerbe and Company, Architects and Engineers
Ellison, Fanny McConnell
Elsen, Albert
Emery, George L. 
Engle, Karen
English, Virginia Shaw
Enrico Glicenstein Memorial Committee
Ente Manifestzioni Milanesi
Ente Nazionale per la Protezione e l'Assinstenza dei Sordomuti
Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States
Errera, Paul L.
Essex Arts
Everett Rassiga, Inc.
Experiment in International Living
Eytan, Walter
Farber, Dorothy
Farmer, Walter I.
Farrar, Straus and Cudahy, Inc.
Farruggio, Ella Brouner and Remo
Fauvre, Janine
Favre, Lucien and Fela
Fayer, Alfred
F. Delius (F. Delius Giese)
Federation of Jewish Women's Organizations, Inc.
Federation of Modern Painters and Sculptors, Inc.
Feigner, John S.
Feinberg, Charles E.
Feinberg, Howard and Janet
Feinberg, Margaret V. 
Feininger, Mr. and Mrs. Lyonel
Felix Landau Gallery
Fernand Hazan Éditeur
Ferntree, J.
Féron, Louis
Ferrole, Riccardo
Festival Foundation, Inc.
Fields, Mitchell
Finch College Museum of Art
Fink, Frances S.
Finkelstein, Louis
Finocchiaro, Santo
Fischbach, John A.
Fischer, Harry
Fischer, Leo
Fischl, Bob
Fleisig, Edith Lipchitz
Floch, Joseph (photocopies)
Fogel, Howard H.
Folkes, Peter L.
Follett Publishing Company
Fondation Neérlandaise des Artes Plastiques
Ford Foundation
Ford, Monsieur
Foret, E.
Fortess, Karl E.
Fort Worth Art Center
Forum Gallery, Inc.
Foshko, Josef
Fox, William
Foy, Hans
Conseiller Culturale
Délégation du Gouvernment Provisoire
Ministère de l'Éducation Nationale
Ministère de Affaires Étrangère
Francion, L.
Francis Pratt, Inc., Primitive, Oriental, Modern Art 
Franck, Mr. and Mrs. Frederick
Franco-American Audio-Visual Distribution Center, Inc.
Franconia College
Frank, Mary
Frank Perls Gallery (Los Angeles)
Frank, Peter
Franklin and Marshall College
Fratelli Fabbri Editori
Frederick A. Praeger, Inc., Publishers
Freedman, Adele
Freeman, Mr.
French Art Theatre, Inc.
Frenkel and Co., Inc., Insurance
Freud, Henry
Friedman, Frances
Fry, Edward
Fuchs, Gunter 
Funk and Wagnalls Company
Furman, Joyce 
Gagnon, Charles Eugene
Galante, Francesco
Galdikas, A.
Gale Research Company
Galerie Abel Rosenberg
Galerie Chalette
Galerie Claude Bernard
Galerie de France
Galerie Jeanne Bucher
Galerie Kamer
Galerie Louis Carré
Galerie M. Rousso 
Galleria del Levante 
Galleria Nazionale d'Arte Moderna (Rome)
Gallery of Jewish Art, Inc.
Gallup, Donald
Gamzu, H.
Ganymed Press
Garaventa, Lorenzo
Garramone, Joseph
Garti, Tess
Gash, Frederick
Gaugh, Harry F.
Gaynor, Lynda
Geilfus, Frèdèric
Geinhers, Charles
Geist, Sidney
Gemeente Musea Amsterdam
Gemeentemuseum Arnheim
Genauer, Emily
George Braziller, Inc.
George M. Juergens Objets d'Art
Georges-Michel, Michel
Geraty, Christopher J.
Germain, Walter
Gertz, Ulrich
Gilber, Miss
Gilbert, Lynn
Gildesgame, Leon L.
Gittlitz, David L.
Godenne, Ghislaine D.
Goldberger, Blanche 
Golden, Catherine
Goldhaft, Arthur D.
Goldman, Elaine
Goldring, Maurice H.
Goldstein, Arnold L.
Goldwater, Robert J.
Goll, Claire 
Goodman, Moshe
Goodman, Nelson
Goodman, Percival 
Goodson-Todman Enterprises, Ltd.
Goodspeed, Betsy 
Gordon, Leah 
Gorin, Bart
Goutal
Graham
Graham, Elaine
Grailville
Granville-Jackson, Alastair
Gray, Camilla
Green, John
Greenberg, Casserell
Greenberg, David
Greenberg, Joel
Greenburgh District No. 8 Parent-Teacher Association (White Plains, NY)
Greenburgh Hebrew Center (Dobbs Ferry, NY)
Greenwich Gallery 
Grippe, Peter
Gris, Josette
Gris, Juan
Gris, Nato
Gritchenko, Alexis
Groner, Duncan
Grosman, Tatyana and Maurice
Gross, Chaim
Grossman, Isidore
Grossman, Mrs.
Groupe O
Gruzan, Jordan L.
Grèguen, Pierre
Guèdenet, Pierre
Guerry, George P.
Gutnayer, Josef-Marion, Henry, and Yvonne
Haarlem, Municipality of, Committee of Advice for the Monumental Arts
Hadassah
Hadassah Medical Organization
Haines, Lundberg and Waehler, Architects
Halberstadt, James
Halter, Mrs. Joseph
Halton family
Hamburg, Beryl
Hammacher, A. M.
Hammacher, R.
Hammer Galleries
Hammond, Brian
The Hampton Day School (NY)
Händler, Gerhard
Haney, George J.
Hanks, Nancy
Hanon, Jean
Haral, Bob
Harbeson, Hough, Livingston and Larson, Architects
Harding, Helen Mary
Hari, Kenenth
Harold J. Smith Adjusters, Inc.
Harper's Bazaar
Harrison and Abramovitz, Architects
Harrison, Bebe
Harrison, Ellen 
Harry A. Franklin Gallery
Harry N. Abrams Incorporated
Harry Salpeter Gallery, Inc.
Harvard University
Harvard University, Dumbarton Oaks Research Library and Collection
Harvard University, Fogg Art Museum
Har Zion Temple (Philadelphia)
Hastings-on-Hudson, Board of Education (NY)
Hastings-on-Hudson, Village of (NY)
Hastings Creative Arts Council, Inc. (NY)
Hastings, Sandra
Haupt, William
Hausch, W. G.
Havey, Marguerite
Hebrew Home for the Aged
Hebrew Teachers College
Hebrew University of Jerusalem
Hélion, Jean
Henning, Mr.
Henrietta M. Schumm
Herbert, Robert L.
Herman, Leon
Herndon, Venable and Ursule
Hesperia Art
Heyer, George
HIAS-JCA Emigration Association
Hill, Claude
Hill, Clinton
Hillside Elementary School (Hastings-on-Hudson, NY)
Hinkhouse, F. M.
Hirsh, Pauline
Hirshhorn, Joseph H. and Olga
Hofstra College
Hohnsbeen, John
Holden, Jessica
Hollander Workshop Gallery
Holzinger, Margit
Homburger, Freddy and Gin
Hooper, Mrs. Arthur
Hornik, Marcel P. 
Hudson, Cecil
Hudson River Museum
Humphrey, Hubert H.
Huntington Township Art League (NY)
Hurleigh, Jan
Ilin, Ephraim
Illinois Institute of Technology, Institute of Design
I. M. Pei and Associates, Architects and Planners
Inaugural Committee 1961
Indiana University
Institute of Contemporary Art (Boston)
Institute of Design [formerly School of Design in Chicago]
Institute of International Education
International Association of Plastic Arts
International Business Machines Corporation (IBM)
International Congress on Religion, Architecture and the Visual Arts
International Exhibitions Foundation
International House-New York
International Synagogue (John F. Kennedy Airport, NY)
Iona Appeal Trust
Iona Community
Isaacson, Philip M.
Ish-Shalom, M.
Israel Artists and Sculptors Association, Jerusalem Artists
Israel Bonds
Israel Museum
Italy, Il Ministro della Publica Istruzione
Izdebsky, Vladimir
Jackson, Sarah
Jacques Lipchitz Art Foundation
Jaffe, Benjamin
Jaffe, L.
Jaffe, Sam
Jaffin, George M.
Jafke, Orville
Jane Wade Ltd.
Jannoley, Adeline
Jensen, Henry G.
Jewish Community Center of Baltimore
Jewish Community Center of Detroit
Jewish Community Center of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland
Jewish Federation-Council of Greater Los Angeles
Jewish Labor Committee, Women's Division, New York Region
Jewish Museum
Jewish Standard
Jewish Theological Seminary of America
Jobling, Peter
John and Mabel Ringling Museum of Art
John P. Streb, Real Estate, Insurance
John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation
Johnson, Lyndon B.
Johnston College
Johnston, Stephen
Joseph H. Hirshhorn Collection
Joseph L. Shapiro Co., Inc.
Joslyn Art Museum
Julien Levy Gallery
Junior League of Mount Kisco, New York, Inc.
Junior League of Tarrytown (NY)
Kahnweiler, Daniel-Henry
Kamer, Henri
Kampleman family
Kan, Dora
Kaplan, Alex
Kaplan, J. M.
Karsh, Yousuf and Estrella
Kasser Foundation
Katonah Gallery
Kaufman, Joseph B.
Kaufmann, Edgar
Kayden, Herbert J.
Keating, Bert M.
Kennedy Memorial Committee
Keren Ha'Yesod 
Kitroskaya, G. V.
Konecky, Cyrena
Kessler, Seymour M.
Kieslet, Frederick J.
King, Mr. and Mrs. George Bernard
Klein, Elaine A.
Kligfeld, Bernard
Knight, Mr.
Kohn, Hans
Kolin, Berthe
Koras, George
Koskenmaki, Joyce
Koussevitzky, Olga
Kramarsky, Mrs.
Kramer, Olga
Kramer, Robert William Mordecai
Kramer, William
Kriesberg, Liz and Ruth Miller
Kroll, Leon and Florence
Kuh, Katharine
Kunsthaus Zürich/Musée des Beaux-Arts
Kurz, Barbara
Laiken, Henry
Lane, Alvin S.
Lang, Joseph
Langley, Martina
Langsner, Jules
Lanagton, Basil
Langworthy, Philip B.
Lannelongue, Janine, Jean, and Michel
LAR Art Objects
La Revenaude, Annette
La Salle College
Lasker, Mary 
Lavaud, Bernard
Lawrence, Michael
Lawson, Mr.
League for Mutual Aid
Lecoque
Ledoyen, A.
Lee, Mildred S.
Lee, Robert
Leech, Mary V.
Leeman, Irving
Lefebvre-Foinet, Lucien
Lejwa, Arthur S.
Lemaire, Eleanor
Le Meé, J. M.
Lennon family
Leofanti, Gene
Leuvens Unversitair Kunstcentrum
Levering, Richard K. 
Levin, Elliott
Levine, Miriam
Lewin, Henry
Lhote, André
Liaison des Artes
Liberty Park Advisory Council (Los Angeles)
Licht, Ira
Limbour, Georges
Lincombe Lodge Research Center
Lissim, Simon
Loeb, Marjorie
London County Council
London, I.
Long Island Arts Center, Inc.
Lord, James
Los Angeles County Museum
Los Angeles Times
Low, Claire B. and Frank H.
Lowenthal, Anne F.
Lucien Goldschmidt Rare and Fine Books, Prints and Drawings
Luis, José
Lusker, Louise Ganter
Luski, Sonia
Lynn Farnol Group Public Relations and Information Programs
Lyon, Emile 
Lyons, Leonard
Lyons, Sylvia
Magazine of Art
Magill, James P. and Ruth
Magriel, Paul
Mahlow, Dieter
Maison Nationale de Retraite des Peintres, Sculpteurs et Graveurs
Makler Gallery
Mandel
Mandel, Edna Horne
Manfred, Ernest Fred
Mankato High School (MN)
Marc Vaux, Photographer 
Markell, Ellis M.
Marks, Hylda Rose 
Oversized material housed in OV 11, F2
Marner, Emily 
Marsh, Mrs. E.
Martens, Michael
Martha Jackson Gallery
Martin, Helen
Maslon, Lillian 
Mason, John
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Massimino, Loni Ann
Master Drawings Association, Inc.
Mathey, Jacques
Mathias, Mr.
Matisse, Pierre
May, A. Wilfred
May, Morton D.
Mayer, Carl
Mazer, William
McBride, Mr.
MCA
McCarthy, Mary
McCollester, Roxane 
McGlynn, Thomas
Mechem, Margaret
Meed, Mrs.
Meisner, Mr. and Mrs. Joel M.
Melekian, S.
Mellow, James K.
Melquist, Jéròme
Mendelsohn, Eric
Mental Health Association of Westchester County, Inc. (NY)
Merinoff, Dmitry
Merkos L'Inyonei Chinuch, Inc.
Metcalf, Addison M.
Metropolitan Educational Television Association, Incorporated 
Metropolitan Museum of Art
Michigan State University, Kresge Art Center Gallery 
Mickelson, Elmer
Mietek, S.
Mikoláš, Ch.
Mikoláš, Karel
Milch, Peggy Westbury
Milich, Carla
Mindlin, Henrique E.
Minneapolis Institute of Arts
Minneapolis School of Art
Mishkan Le'Omanut, Museum of Art, Ein Harod
Mission of Israel
M. Knoedler and Co., Inc. 
Mobile Junior Chamber of Commerce
Model, Elisabeth
Modern Art Foundry, Inc.
Moller, Betty
Monaco, Principality of
Monde Publishers, Inc.
Montclair High School (NJ)
Morales, Miguel G.
Morganthau, Aline
Morley, Charles L.
Moro, Francis and Thomas
Morris and Son Construction Corp.
Morris Gallery
Mose, Carl C.
Moskof, Martin Stephen
Mosman, Mr.
Moteo
Mott, Hanno
Mozer, Helen and Bill
M. R. Schweitzer, Art Dealer - Appraiser
Munson-Williams-Proctor Institute
Murphy, Jo Anne
Musée "Beit Uri et Rami Nechustan"
Musée Cantini
Musée Châtelain
Musée d'Art Contemporain, Skopjie (Macedonia)
Musée de l'Homme
Musée Rodin
Museo de Bellas Artes (Caracas)
Museum am Ostwall
Museum Bredius
Museum Leverkusen
Museum of African Art 
Museum of Fine Arts (Boston)
Museum of Fine Arts of Houston
Museum voor Land-en Volkendunde
Myerson-Grant, Bess
Nadelman, Eugene
Nadelman, Viola
Naef, Hans
Namir, Mordechai
Nannucci, Maruizio
Nathan, Fritz
Nathan, Helmuth and Irene
Nathan, Karl
National Academy [of Design] School of Fine Arts
National Association of Women Artists, Inc.
National Council for U. S. Art, Inc.
National Council of Jewish Women
National Council of the Churches of Christ in the U.S.A.
National Educational Television
National Gallery of Art (Washington, DC)
National Historic Shrines Foundation, Inc.
National Jewish Welfare Board 
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, Westchester Chapter 
Nebenzahl, Yitzhak Ernst
Nederlandse Kunststichting
Neiman-Marcus
Neumann, Hans H.
Neumann, J. B.
Newark Museum
Newfield, John
New Gallery
Newhouse, Caroline
Newman, Hélène S.
Newman, Nancy C.
Newman, Sam B.
New Road - Novy Pout
New Rochelle Water Company
New School for Social Research
New Sculpture Group
New York City Community College 
New York City, Department of Public Works
New York Guild for the Jewish Blind
New York Herald Tribune
New York Post
New York Psychoanalytic Institute
New York Public Library
New York Studio School of Drawing, Painting and Sculpture
New York Times
New York University
Nicolas, J.
Niemeyer, Oscar
Northside Center for Child Development, Inc.
Noyes, Eliot, Jr.
Nubgaard, Betty
Oberlin College, Dudley Peter Allen Memorial Art Museum
Observer (London)
O'Connor, Patricia
O'Connor and Kilham, Jr., Architects
L'Oeil Revue d'Art
Office National de Tourisme Hellenique 
Oldham, Gail P. 
Old Westbury Gardens, Inc.
Oliver, Katharine S.
Omaha National Bank
Orain, J.
Oram, Harold L.
Orion Press
Orswell, Lois
Oscar Meyer Antique Works of Art, Inc. 
Otis Art Institute of Los Angeles County
Otten, Albert
Ozenfant, Amèdèe
Pach, Walter
Painters and Sculptors Society of New Jersey, Inc.
Pannaggi, Ivo
Pasaye, Michele
Passedoit, Georgette
Pattison, Abbott
Paul F. Damaz, Architect
Paul Moro, Inc., Restorer of Paintings
Paul Rosenberg and Co.
Peiser, Donald
Peridot Gallery
Perls Galleries (New York)
Perrine, A. J.
Persian Antique Gallery
Peter Marks Works of Art, Inc.
P. F. Collier and Son Corporation
Philadelphia, City of
Philadelphia Friends of Lubavitch
Philadelphia Museum College of Art
Oversized material housed in OV 11, F3
Philadelphia Museum School of Art
Philip Johnson Associates
Pickens, Alton
Pietroseal, Remo, Jr.
Piñata Party, Inc.
Pine Plains Central School District (NY)
Piper, Raymond F.
Pitman Publishing Corporation
Plass, Mrs. Webster
Play Schools Association Inc.
Pleiss, Margo
Poe, Barbara Reis
Pollack, Jack Harrison
Pomerance, Harriet and Leon
Pomerance and Breines Architects
Pomfret School
Portable Gallery Press
Portland Museum Art School
Powers, Judith
Praeger, B. M.
Pratt Institute
Prentice-Hall, Inc.
Primus Gallery
Princeton University, Art Museum
Prisme des Arts
Prochnik, Wit-Olaf
Pro Civitate Christiana
Provincetown Art Association Incorporated
Public Education Association
Purris, J. J.
Quamme, Norman 
Racine Art Foundry
Racolin, Alexander E.
Rácz, Andre
Radcliffe Institute for Independent Study
Radiodiffusion-Télévision Française
Radziminski, Wayne Lee
Raemith, Waldemar 
Rafi, Samir
Ragon, Sara
Oversized material housed in OV 11, F4
Rannit, Aleksis 
Rapoport, Morris
Rapoport, Natan
Rassegna Internazionale di Scultura Contemporanea all'Aperto, 2a
Ray, Deborah Cohen
Raynal, Germaine and M.
Read, Prudence
Rechter Zary Architects, Peri Engineer 
Reder, Bernard
Redstone, Louis G. and Ruth
Refess-Remisoff, Michel and Hélène
Reform Jewish Appeal
Rewald, John
Rey, Sydor
Rhode Island School of Design, The Museum
Rice, Norman N.
Richter, Horace
Rienckens, Valentin
Rimberg, Herman
Rina Gallery
Ringelheim, Paul H.
Ritter, Gladys
Robbins, Dorothy
Robinson, George F.
Rockefeller, Mrs. John D., III
Rockefeller, Mary C.
Rockefeller, Nelson A.
Rodgers, William
Rodman, Selden
Romain Rolland Memorial Meeting
Rome, Harold
Ronnebeck, Arnold
Rood, Dorothy B. A.
Rosch, Mrs. Samuel J.
Rose, Billy
Rosen, Jack
Rosen, Samuel
Rosenbaum, Helen
Rosenberg, Natalie
Rosenberg, James N.
Rosenfeld, Louis
Rosenthal, Julius
Rosgate, Theodore
Ross, Gloria and Arthur
Roston, Arnold
Roth, Irene
Roth, Sanford H.
Rotsch, Kurt
Rousset, Robert
Rowlings, Arnie
Royal-Athena Galleries
Rozran, Bernard W.
Rubin, Samuel
Rubinow, Raymond S.
Rubinson, Nathan
Rubinstein, Marla
Rudier, G.
Rumsey, Claire
Ruslander, Selwyn D.
Russell, Dick and Steph
Russell, George
R.V. Replogle and M. G. Barr, Designers and Directors of Apex
Sadwith, Lucille 
Sahl, Hans
Saint Cloud State College
St. Joseph Museum
St. Paul Gallery and School of Art
Sts. John and Paul School (Larchmont, NH)
Salcius, Mr. A.
Salmony, Alfred
Sandberg, Willem
Sanders, P.
San Francisco Civic Center Plaza International Competition
San Francisco Museum of Art
Sarah Lawrence College
Scarsdale Studio Workshop (NY)
Scarsdale Synagogue (NY)
Scarsdale Woman's Club (NY)
Schaap, Adolf
Schack, William
Schalz, Belle K.
Schapiro, Meyer and Lillian
Schendel, Jim
Scher, Marie
Schmid, Elsa
Schneersohn, I.
Schneid, Otto 
Schneider, Alexander
Schocken, Gidon
Schor, Ilya
Schuling, I. W.
Schwartz, Alan E.
Schwarz, Karl
Schweich, Albert
Schweicher, Curt
Schweighofer, F.
Schweinhage, Karin M. E.
Sculptors Guild, Incorporated
Seattle World's Fair
Seckler, Dorothy
Segel, Yonny
Segy Gallery
Seiden, Rudolph
Setterblad, Oscar
Sexology
Sextant, Inc.
Shapiro, Jessie 
Shaw, Frederick W.
Shaye, Max M.
Sherer, Morris
Sherman, Devora
Sherod
Shikes, Peter B.
Shopen, Ken
Shore, Donald
Shorewood Publishers Inc.
Show
Sichel, Pierre
Sicilia, Salvatore
Sikkens Lakfabrieken
Silber, Zavel
Silvermine Guild of Artists, Inc.
Simms, Carroll H.
Sinai Temple (Los Angeles)
Singer, Herbert M.
Singer, Mimi
Skidmore, Owings and Merrill, Architects/Engineers
Sleepy Hollow Restorations
Sloan, Mrs. N. P.
Smith College Museum of Art
Smith, Hinchman and Grylls Associates, Inc. 
Smith, Jean Kennedy 
Smithsonian Institution, National Collection of Fine Arts 
Smoter, Jerzy
Soby, James T.
Sobsy, Cynthia
Société des Amis d'Yvan Goll
Société Radio-Canada
Society of Washington Artists
Soderberg, Ronald
Sofianopulo, Cesare
Solomon, Betty M.
Solomon, Gerald
Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum
Sonnenberg, Benjamin
Sonnenfeld, Otto
Southworth, June 
Soyer, Raphael
Spalek, Paul 
Spampinato, Mario
Spanish Refugee Aid, Inc.
Spanish Refugee Appeal
Spire Production Company
Spring, Betty
Spring, John C.
Springfield Art League (MA)
Squier, Jack
Stadt Duisberg Kunstmuseum
Stadt Köln
Stadtische Kunstsammlungen, Nuremberg 
Städtisches Museum Wuppertal
Staempfli, George W. 
Stankiewicz, Richard
Starwood Corporation
State of Israel Bonds
State of Israel Commemoration Dinner
State University of Iowa
Stavisky, Lotte
Stedelijk Museum "Het Prinsehof" (Delft)
Stedelijk van Abbe-museum (Eindhoven)
Steegmuller, Francis
Steendrukkerij de Jong and Co.
Stein, Gertrude (photocopies)
Stein, Jules
Steinbeck, Dietmar
Steinman, Mr. and Mrs.
Stephens College
Stephens, Jacqueline
Sterling, Friede and Bob
Stern, Herbert
Stern, Louis E.
Stern, Simone 
Streeter, Tal
Strutz, Henry
Stuart Art Gallery
Sunday Courier and Press (Evansville, IN)
Sweeney, James Johnson
Swet, Gershon
Tacha, Athena C.
Tafel, Edgar
Tasutzky, Boris
Tate Gallery
Taylor, Larry P.
Taylor, Sandra
Tell, Philip
Teller, Walter Magnes
Temerman, Nadia
The Temple (Cleveland)
Temple Beth El (Flint, MI)
Temple B'nai Sholom
Temple Emanu-el of Long Beach (NY)
Temple Israel (Croton-on-Hudson, NY)
Temple Israel of Northern Westchester (NY)
Temple Sinai of Bergen County (NJ)
Tenenbaum, Sheu
Teochita, Inc., Pre-Columbian Art
Thaler, Pat 
Thalheimer, Lilyan J. 
Thannhauser, Justin K.
Thebault, Janine
Thebault, P. F.
Theodor Herzl Institute
This Week Magazine
Thomas, Steffen
Thompson, G. David
Thompson, Gladys 
Ticho, Anna
Tillinghast, Caroline and Frank
Time
Times Herald Record (Middletown, NY)
Tishman, Paul
Tishman, Ruth W.
Tobak, David
Tobias, Frances
Toledo Museum of Art
Tombeau du Martyr Juif Inconnu
Tommasi, Paolo
Tompkins, Alfred E.
Tournai [Belgium], Municipality of 
Tovish, Harold
Trepuk, Albert O.
Trier, Eduard
Trotsky, Hélène
Trumbull Jewish Community Group (CT)
Tuchman, Mr.
Tucker, Jean S.
Tung Hsun-Chung
Turnbull, Grace H.
Turn Toward Peace, New England Regional Office
l'Union des Artistes, Centenaire Toulouse-Lautrec 
Union des Sociétés Juives de France
Union of Hebrew American Congregations, Commission on Synagogue Administration
United Church Board for Homeless Ministries
United Church of Christ (Philadelphia)
United Hebrew Congregation (St. Louis)
United Jewish Appeal of Greater New York
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO)
United Presbyterian Church
United States Department of State
United States Information Agency
United States Treasury Department
United States War Information Office
United States War Production Board
Universal Limited Art Editions
University of California
University of Chicago
University of Denver
University of Hartford
University of Illinois, Krannert Art Museum
University of Kansas
University of Kansas, Museum of Art
Oversized material housed in OV 11, F5
University of Oregon
University of Pennsylvania
University of St. Thomas (Houston)
University of Southern California
University of Texas
University of Toronto
University of Vermont
University of Washington
University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Uris Building Corporation
Uzielli, Mrs. Giorgio
Vacheron, Edilbert Z.
Vancouver Art Gallery
van der Blij, K. J.
van der Marck, J.H.M.
van der Wal, G.
van Leyden, Karin
Van Waveren, Godfried
Varèse, Edgard
Varkell, Paul
Vaughn, Rosa E.
Verdel, A.
Verhagen, Joep
Verlag Kurt Desch München
Vermont Marble Company
Victor Kamkin, Inc. Bookstore
Victoria and Albert Museum
View
Villanueva, Carlos Raúl
Vilven, Marsha L.
Virginia Museum of Fine Arts
Vizer, Mr.
Vogel, Virginia Booth
Vogue
Vose Galleries of Boston, Inc.
Waits, Don
Walker Foundation
Walker, Maynard
Wall Street Synagogue
Walters Art Gallery
Warren, Katherine
Warshaw, Howard
Warszawski, Marie
Washington Hebrew Congregation
Washton, Rose-Carol
Watson, Thomas J., Jr.
Waxman, Bertha B. 
W. B. Yeats Memorial Committee
WCAU-TV 10
W. C. Cox and Company
Webb, Aline 
Weidenfeld and Nicolson Limited
Weil, Florence 
Weill, Erna
Weiner, Aline 
Weiner, Egon
Weiner, Lillian 
Weiner, Martin
Weiner, Norman and Eugenia
Weiner, Ted
Weintraub Gallery
Weisman, David
Weiss, Florence
Weizmann Institute of Science
Welton Becket and Associates, Architects, Engineers
Weng, Siegfried R. 
Wenger, J.
Werner, Alfred
Westchester Art Society (NY) 
Westchester Arts and Crafts Guild (NY)
Westchester Co., Commissioner of Jurors (NY) 
Westchester Day School (NY)
Westchester Reform Temple (Hartsdale, NY)
Westheim, Raul
WGBH-FM and WGBH-TV (Cambridge, MA)
White House
White, Robert W.
Wholden, Rosalind G.
Who's Who
Who's Who in America
Wichita State University
Wiggins, Jim
Wilber, Thomas Brown
Willard, Charlotte
Willard Gallery
William Rockhill Nelson Gallery of Art, Atkins Museum of Fine Arts
Williams, Jack and Zeta
Willis, Mrs. John T.
Wills, Frances
Wilson, Helen
Wines, James
Winnepeg Art Gallery Association/Winnepeg Art Gallery
Wittenborn, George
Wittlich, Peter
Women for Peace
Wookey, Richard H.
World Federation of the Bergen-Belson Associations, Inc.
World House
WRCV (Philadelphia)
W. R. Keating and Company
W. S. Budworth and Son, Inc.
WUHY-FM (Philadelphia)
Wurtzburger, Alan and Janet
Yale and Towne Manufacturing Company
Yale Literary Magazine
Yale University
Yale University Art Gallery
Yamasaki, Minoru 
Yamin, Martina
Yarre, L.
Yeshiva University, Albert Einstein College of Medicine
YKUF Art Section
Yonkers Art Association
Young Men's and Young Women's Hebrew Association
Young, Philip A.
Youth Aliyah and Fellowship in Israel for Arab-Jewish Youth 
Ysla, Pedro and Gloria
Zabriskie, Fanny and Vic
Zach, Jan
Zacks, Samuel J.
Zajac, A.
Zborowski-Bonat, Josephine
Zeisler, Richard S.
Zuck, Tom
Zucker, Henry L.
Zymet, Carl L.
Alfredo
Alice K.
André
Claire
Emilia
Falya
Falya and Nina
Frankie
Gertrude and Bill
Gigi
Giorgio
Gottfried and Tutti
Jane
Jane and Tom
Janine
Jean
Jo
Joe
Joel
John
Johnnie
Libby and Louis
Marc
Marie-Eve
Marjo
Martin
Natasha
Nina
Nino and Marilyn
Oksana
Pablo
Paul
Pierre
Ray and M.L.S.
Sarah
Sidney
The Zs
Ami
Chers
Cherie
Directeur et Ami
Monsieur le Directeur
Frau
Friends
Madame
Monsieur
Monsieur et Ami
Monsieur le President
Rabbi
Rebbe
Sisters and All Our Own
Sir
To Whom it May Concern
Allen, Miss
Ambellan, Harold
Anderson, Mr.
Aronson, Prof.
Birchinsky, Mr.
Byron, Charles A. (Byron Gallery, Inc.)
Darland, Dr. R. W. (University of Minnesota, Duluth)
Edelsberg, Mr.
Fox, Mr.
Hills, Miss
Hursh, Mrs.
[Ingersoll], Sturgis
Jacobson, Mrs.
Karsh, Mrs.
Kling, Vincent
[Kollek], Teddy
Mackler, Paul and Hope (Makler Gallery)
Miró, Joan
Moore, Henry
Murphy, Chancellor
Picasso, Pablo
Redom, Miss
Rudeman, Mr.
Sandberg, Willem
Silverman, Rabbi
Sullivan, Dr. 
Verder, André
Betty
David
Directeur et Ami
Fred
Gigi
Leonard
Lou
Philip
Oversized material scanned with Box 1, F24
Oversized material scanned with Box 3, F11
Oversized material scanned with Box 3, F45
Oversized material scanned with Box 4, F3
Oversized material scanned with Box 4, F39
Eleven small pocket diaries contain very brief entries noting appointments and events, along with addresses and phone numbers, notes on expenses, and a few quick sketches.
Volume 1: 1940
Volume 2: 1941
Volume 3: 1952
Volume 4: 1954
Volume 5: 1955
Volume 6: 1956
Volume 7: 1957
Volume 8: 1958
Volume 9: 1961
Volume 10: 1963
Volume 11: 1965
Writings by Jacques Lipchitz include a notebook containing random notes on sculpture. The folder titled "Lists of Sculpture" includes a list of items lost in the 1952 fire that destroyed his East 23rd Street studio. Among the miscellaneous writings are short pieces and fragments about Rodin, William Zorach, Mary Frank, and Natan Rapoport; memories of Modigliani; articles and reflections on contemporary art and the church; and a completed questionnaire about The Struggle of Jacob with the Angel. Speeches, with the exception of a transcript of his talk with students at Boston University School of Fine and Applied Arts, March 12, 1965, are unidentified and undated.
Among the writings by other authors are catalog essays, student papers, and a speech about Lipchitz and his work. This series also includes transcripts and notes of interviews with Jacques Lipchitz.
A small number of writings, enclosed with letters, are scattered throughout the correspondence (Subseries 1.1). Most notable is "Homage to Jacques Lipchitz," a poem by John Ciardi, sent with his letter of June 18, 1958.
Arnason, H. H., "Jacques Lipchitz - The Maquettes" (1963)
Cocteau, Jean, Untitled 
Cohen, Ruth, "Jacques Lipchitz Exhibition"
Ingersoll, R. Sturgis, Foreword to Fine Arts Associates catalog
Meeropol, Robert, Untitled Student Paper
Rewald, John, Untitled 
Shenker, Israel, "Jacques Lipchitz" 
Sweeney, James Johnson, "Jacques Lipchitz" 
Sweeney, James Johnson, Address at Dedication Ceremony of Joie de Vivre, Albert Einstein College of Medicine 
Tucker, Jean S., Student Paper, "An approach to Mother and Child, 1949, by Jacques Lipchitz"
"Notes on 'Conversation with Jack [ sic] Lipchitz [ sic]'" 
Jacques Lipchitz interviewed by Tal Streeter 
"A Visit with Jacques Lipchitz," by Marc Siegel for television show "Directions '61" (broadcast October 29, 1961) 
Sponsored by Marlborough Gallery, Inc., Alan G. Wilkinson's The Sculpture of Jacques Lipchitz: A Catalogue Raisonné was published by Thames and Hudson. Volume One: The Paris Years, 1910-1940 appeared in 1996, and Volume Two: The American Years, 1941-1973 was issued in 2000.
Correspondence includes photo requests and permissions.
Oversized material housed in Box 10, F6-9
Material housed in Box 6, F15
Albright-Knox Art Gallery
Art Gallery of Ontario
Baltimore Museum of Art
Barnes Foundation
Bunkamura Museum of Art
Chrysler Museum of Art
Contemporary Arts Museum, Houston
Dallas Museum of Art
Dartmouth College, Hood Museum of Art
Galerie Jeanne Boucher
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Indianapolis Museum of Art
Kansas City Art Institute, Kemper Museum of Contemporary Art and Design
Kunsthaus Zürich
Los Angeles County Museum of Art
Metropolitan Museum of Art
Museé des Beaux Arts, Rouen
Museum of Modern Art
Milwaukee Art Museum
Princeton University, The Art Museum
Oversized material from Box 5, F41
Administrative correspondence is mainly between Marlborough Gallery staff and the author, Alan G. Wilkinson.
Research correspondence includes several letters received in response to inquiries made during preparation of volume 1 that also contain information about works produced after 1940. They were used for researching volume 2 and remain with the records relating to its compilation.
Material from Box 5, F42
Albright-Knox Art Gallery
Baltimore Museum of Art
Birmingham Museum of Art
Christie's, Tel Aviv
Chrysler Museum of Art
Cincinnati Art Museum
Columbia University
Cornell University, Herbert F. Johnson Museum
Currier Gallery of Art
Dallas Museum of Art
Dartmouth College, Hood Museum of Art
Des Moines Art Center
Detroit Institute of Arts
Fairmount Park Art Association
Galeria Nazionale d'Arte Moderne, Rome
Haags Gemeentemuseum
Hakone Open Art Museum
Harvard University, Fogg Art Museum
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Smithsonian Institution
Honolulu Academy of Arts
Indiana University Art Museum
Israel Museum
Jewish Museum
Lane, Alvin S.
Los Angeles County Museum of Art
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, List Visual Arts Center
Metropolitan Museum of Art
Minneapolis Institute of Arts
Minnesota Museum of American Art
Munson-Williams-Proctor Institute, Museum of Art
Museé d'art et d'histoire du Judiasme
Museo de Arte Contemporaneo, Caracas
Museo de Bellas Artes, Caracas
Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen
Museum Folkwang Essen
Museum Moderner Kunst Stiftung Ludwig Wein
Museum of Fine Arts, Houston
Museum of Modern Art
National Gallery of Canada
Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art
Niigata City Museum
Norton Simon Museum/Norton Museum of Art
Open Air Museum of Sculpture
Owen, Jane Blaffer and R. L. Blaffer Trust
Philadelphia Museum of Art
Portland Art Museum (OR)
Princeton University, The Art Museum
San Francisco Museum of Modern Art
Scottish National Gallery of Modern Art
Scottsdale Museum of Contemporary Art
Sheldon Memorial Art Gallery and Sculpture Garden
Shizuoka Perfectual Museum of Art
Skirball Cultural Center and Museum
Smith College Museum of Art
Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum
Southern Methodist University, Meadows Museum
Staatliche Kunsthalle Karlsruhe
Städtische Kunsthalle Mannheim
Stanford University, Iris and B. Gerald Cantor Center for Visual Arts
Stedelijk Museum
Sttatsgalerie Stuttgart
Syracuse University Art Collection
Tate Gallery
Tel Aviv Museum of Art
Tokushima Modern Art Museum
University of Arizona Museum of Art 
University of California, Los Angeles, Franklin D Murphy Sculpture Garden
University of Chicago, The David and Alfred Smart Museum of Art
University of Iowa Museum of Art
University of Michigan Museum of Art
University of Minnesota, Tweed Museum of Art
Virginia Museum of Fine Arts
Walker Art Center
Washington University
Wellesley College, Davis Museum and Cultural Center
Whitney Museum of American Art
Worcester Art Museum
Research materials used for both volumes of the catalogue raisonné consist of unidentified images of Lipchitz's sculpture and copies of inventory cards for bronzes and stone sculptures at Marlborough Gallery, Inc.
Several letters received in response to inquiries made during preparation of volume 1 also contain information about works produced after 1940. They were used for researching volume 2 and remain with the research correspondence documenting its compilation.
Account statements issued by Buchholz Gallery and Curt Valentin Gallery record works sold, buyers, and prices. They also document the charges to the artist for casting, photography, insurance, and etc. Records concerning the Lipchitz Collection consist of receipts from auctioneers and galleries.
Additional financial records including gallery accounts, insurance records, and invoices and receipts enclosed with letters are scattered throughout the correspondence (Subseries 1.2). Notes on expenses are scattered throughout the diaries (Subseries 1.3).
Buchholz Gallery
Curt Valentin Gallery
Sketches by Lipchitz consist of pencil drawings on the back of an envelope and drawings in ball point pen on two small slips of paper. The geometric designs by an unidentified artist are rendered in ink on two sheets of graph paper.
Two volumes consist mainly of newspaper clippings and a small number of clippings from periodicals mentioning Lipchitz and/or containing reproductions of his work. All clippings were provided by the French clipping service Le Lynx. Volume 2 also includes a 2-page transcript of a very brief interview, and the text of equally brief remarks delivered by Lipchitz at an unidentified event. Material preserved in the scrapbooks is mostly in French, with a few items in German and English.
Exhibition catalogs and announcements, articles, press releases, books, reproductions, and programs document Lipchitz's exhibitions, sculpture, commissions, the Lipchitz Collection, and events honoring the sculptor. This series also contains a variety of printed material including newspaper clippings and other miscellaneous items regarding general art topics. Some items are in German and French.
Additional printed items are found enclosed with correspondence (Subseries 1.2) and, to a lesser extent, in his diaries (Subseries 1.3). Both scrapbooks (Subseries 1.8) are comprised mainly of newspaper clippings.
Architectural prints show sites for commissions and/or details of projects. Miscellaneous items consist of a ship passenger list, the menu of a farewell dinner honoring Lipchitz, and a general brochure about The American Academy of Arts and Letters containing a picture of Lipchitz receiving an award. Programs are for events honoring Lipchitz and a 1967 Jacques Lipchitz Festival sponsored by the Hastings Creative Arts Council.
Oversized material housed in OV 12
Blaffer Trust Shrine, New Harmony, IN
International Business Machines, Yorktown Heights, NY
St. Louis, Lambert Airport
University of Minnesota, Duluth
Washington Square East, Philadelphia
Oversized material scanned with Box 7, F34
Oversized material scanned with Box 7, F24
This subseries consists of a variety of printed items on general art topics, none referencing Lipchitz or his art collection.
Oversized material housed in Box 10, F1
Oversized material from Box 8, F10
Photographs document people, artwork, project sites and models, exhibition installations, events, and places. Photographs of people include Jacques Lipchitz, family members, and others. Photographs of artwork include pieces by both Jacques Lipchitz and other artists. Views of Lipchitz exhibition installations in the United States and Europe mainly document solo shows. Photographs of events record a variety of occasions, among them: the opening of Lipchitz's new studio at Hastings-on-Hudson, NY; the dedication ceremony for Philip Johnson's Roofless Church in New Harmony, IN, with ornamental gates and a sculpture by Lipchitz; and Lipchitz addressing an anatomy class at Albert Einstein Medical College. Among the photographs of places are Lipchitz's studios at Hastings-on-Hudson, NY, and Pietrasanta, Italy, and a view of Pablo Picasso's Paris studio.
Photographs of Jacques Lipchitz include a small head shot taken during his early years in Paris, copies of two 1946 portraits by Arnold Newman, views of him in the Hastings-on-Hudson studio, at Modern Art Foundry, and with Yulla. Also found are views of the sculptor's hands.
The Lipchitz family is represented by images of his parents Abraham and Rachel Krinsky Lipchitz, sister Diana, youngest brother Rubin, nephew Georgy Hay, a niece and her daughter. Most were tentatively identified in 2010 by Loyla Lipchitz.
Among the other identified individuals are Josef Albers and Ken Tyler, Jane Blaffer Owen, and Fiore de Henriquez, a young sculptor who lived with the Lipchitz family in the mid 1960s. Photographs of Senator Robert A. Taft probably served as resource material for a bust commissioned circa 1958, and those of President Lyndon B. Johnson were likely used when Lipchitz designed the 1964 Presidential Scholar Medal.
Additional photographs of Lipchitz and others are found among photographs of events (Subseries 1.10.5), and some may be enclosed with letters, scattered throughout the correspondence (Subseries 1.2).
Oversized material housed in Box 10, F2
Oversized material housed in Box 10, F3
Oversized material scanned with Box 8, F17 and F21
Jacques Lipchitz, Hands of
Jacques Lipchitz in Studio, Hastings-on-Hudson, NY (photographers: Roloff Beny, F. Roy Kemp, George Moffett, Bert Van Bork and unidentified)
Oversized material scanned with Box 8, F35-F36
Robert A. Taft
Unidentified
The vast majority of this subseries documents Lipchitz's sculpture. Many are unidentified. Among the identified works are: The Joy of Living, Woman and Gazelles, Song of the Vowels (various locations), Prometheus (versions for the Philadelphia Museum of Art and the Ministry of Education, Brazil), Nôtre Dame de Liesse, Assy, France, and ornamental gates and a second cast of Nôtre Dame de Liesse for Philip Johnson's Roofless Church in New Harmony, Indiana. Photographs by Ladislas Segy include "Aspects of Lipchitz Bather III, 1917 bronze on the turntable," which consists of small photographs taken from 11 angles and glued inside a manila folder to document the rotating sculpture. Among the sculpture photographed by F. Wilbur Seiders is a detail of Lipchitz's signature.
Other works of art by Lipchitz represented in this subseries include a substantial number of photographs of drawings, including pages from sketchbooks which are not among the Jacques Lipchitz papers. Also found is a photograph of a medal bearing a portrait of President Lyndon Baines Johnson commissioned for the Presidential Scholar Awards in 1964.
Photographs of artwork by other artists include silver objects from the Jewish Museum shown in the Metropolitan Museum of Art's 1955 exhibition "Art of the Hebrew Tradition." The Lipchitz Collection is also represented by 13 examples of African sculpture. "Primitive and Ancient Art" photographs include identified and unidentified items from museums and unspecified collection; it is not known if any are from Lipchitz's collection.
Oversized material housed in Box 10, F4
 Géricault
 Goya
 Manet
 Nicolas
 Van Gogh
Oversized material from Box 9, F10
A few other photographs of project sites, enclosed with letters, can be found scattered throughout the correspondence (Subseries 1.1.2).
photographs with 2 diagrams of galleries indicating sculpture placement
Photographs of The American Jewish Tercentenary Dinner feature President Dwight D. Eisenhower, the main speaker of the evening; Lipchitz does not appear in any views. At the award ceremony sponsored by the Philadelphia Museum School of Art, a citation was presented to Jacques Lipchitz "for the distinction brought upon his profession."
Posed by Lipchitz's ornamental gates are the participants in the dedication ceremony for the Roofless Church in New Harmony, IN: Philip Johnson, architect; Jacques Lipchitz, sculptor; Jane Blaffer Owen whose Robert Lee Blaffer Trust initiated and funded the project; and chaplain to Queen Elizabeth, Right Rev. George F. Macleod of the Church of Scotland.
The purpose of Lipchitz's talk to anatomy students at Albert Einstein Medical College was to share a new perspective on the subject of a practicing artist. From the early 1950s through the mid-1960s Lipchitz frequently appeared on "What in the World," a television show that featured experts who identified and discussed unusual items from the collection of the University Museum, University of Pennsylvania.
Some of the unidentified landscapes and views of buildings may be travel pictures. Photographs of the Lipchitz studio at Hastings-on-Hudson, NY show many finished pieces, maquettes, and works in progress. They also give a good sense of the space. The contact sheets include Lipchitz and his studio assistant in a few views. Also found are an undated photograph of Picasso's studio in Paris and one of "Atelier Halser."
Oversized material housed in Box 10, F5
Oversized material scanned with Box 9, F55
All photographs were taken during the summer of 1967 in Pietrasanta, Italy. The first section contains both color and black and white prints; the second part is all black and white.
Both sections were removed from the same 3-ring binder.
Negatives, slides, and color transparencies are of artwork by Lipchitz. All artwork is unidentified except for a transparency of Sketch for Bull and Condor (watercolor and pencil on paper, created 1913). Two 35-mm color slides show Lipchitz judging a Yonkers Art Association exhibition in the 1950s.
Artwork by Lipchitz
Lipchitz Judging Yonkers Art Association Exhibition
Artwork by Lipchitz 
Lipchitz with Sculpture
The Bruce Bassett papers concerning Jacques Lipchitz measure 43.3 linear feet and date from 1961 to 2001. The series consists mainly of materials related to Bassett's extensive audiovisual documentation projects concerning the life and art of the sculptor Jacques Lipchitz. Also found are paper records including letters, business records, printed materials, and paper production records related to the audiovisual projects. Other projects, unrelated to Lipchitz, include video and sound recordings related to Sidney Lifchez, IBM, Isamu Noguchi, the Storm King Sculpture Center, and Auguste Rodin.
Original sound recordings and photographs from Deborah Stott's 200 hour oral history with Jacques Lipchitz are found, as well as detailed, typewritten summaries of its content. Documentation used in Bassett's film projects about Lipchitz include original film and sound recordings from Bassett's 40 hours of interviews with Lipchitz from 1971, and film documentation of the posthumous installations of Lipchitz's large-scale sculptures in Philadelphia, New York, and Israel in the late 1970s. In addition to the raw footage from these projects, which is incomplete, the collection contains workprint and final, edited works Bassett created in multiple versions and formats, and paper records documenting the film projects' creation, production, and later use.
Among the papers related to the film projects are scripts, an index to original footage, programming notes, film lab records, exhibition materials, an extensive collection of questions about Lipchitz gathered from the public for the interactive project, and other production records. Other papers include letters from Lipchitz and his wife, business correspondence, financial records, contracts, project files, and printed materials.
Records of other projects, unrelated to Jacques Lipchitz, are also found, including video and sound recordings from Bassett's projects about the designer Sidney Lifchez, IBM, the Storm King Sculpture Center, Isamu Nogichi, and Auguste Rodin. Other projects not created by Bassett but found among his papers include two news films related to John F. Kennedy during his presidency, a screenplay entitled The Man with Two Sides to His Head by Anthony Cave Brown, the film Man Is My Name, by Pierre Dominique Guisseau, and a portion of the film Dream on Monkey Mountain.
This series consists of letters written by Jacques Lipchitz, and one letter fragment written by Lipchitz's wife. One folder contains photocopies of eleven letters written by Jacques Lipchitz to unnamed correspondents between 1927 and 1931. Letters are in French and concern sculpture commissions and personal matters. Also found are two letters written by Lipchitz to Bruce Bassett about their work together and a fragment of a letter from Lipchitz's wife to Bassett.
Location of originals is unknown
This series contains tax records, correspondence, invoices, contracts, releases, and project files concerning the work Bassett produced under the auspices of the Jacques Lipchitz Art Foundation and Histor Systems, two organizations he founded. Both entities were concerned mainly with projects documenting the life and work of Jacques Lipchitz, and both contain materials related to the two main Lipchitz projects, namely the documentary and the interactive video installation. The Jacques Lipchitz Art Foundation was dissolved in part because of the Lipchitz family's concerns that its existence would confuse and complicate transactions involving Lipchitz artworks after his death.
The Jacques Lipchitz Art Foundation was founded by Bruce Bassett in 1968. Projects carried out through the Foundation include the the audioguide created for the Brooks Memorial Art Gallery, the Deborah Stott Interviews (Subseries 2.4), Jacques Lipchitz Interactive Project (Subseries 2.5.2), Jacques Lipchitz Documentary (Subseries 2.5.3). The Jacques Lipchitz Art Foundation dissolved around 1978, but Bassett carried on with his work related to Jacques Lipchitz under the auspices of Histor Systems (Subseries 2.2.2).
Subseries includes financial records, organizational records, correspondence, contracts, and project files related to the major projects carried out through the Foundation. The Bylaws folder includes a list of the JLAF Board of Directors from 1971. Notable documents in Correspondence include a letter from Nelson Rockefeller to Lipchitz, and letters about the creation of a Jacques Lipchitz Sculpture Museum (which never came to pass). The Contracts and Releases folder includes the original media release signed by Jacques Lipchitz. The Brooks Memorial Art Gallery project files document the production of an audioguide in conjunction with a 1974 Jacques Lipchitz exhibition at Memphis, TN museum through correspondence, checklists, drafts of a script, and photographs. The documentary project files contain records of fundraising and distribution of the film, a list of music used, and correspondence describing changes to 1977 version of film. The interactive project files consist mainly of documents related to a demonstration of the interactive system in December, 1973.
Additional documentation of the interactive project is found in series 2.2, Business Records, Histor Systems, and in series 5.2, Film Projects, Interactive Project. A long interview with Lipchitz and a large collection of photographs, both produced under the auspices of the Jacques Lipchitz Art Foundation, are found in series 4, Interview with Jacques Lipchitz conducted by Deborah Stott.
Bruce Bassett founded Histor Systems to continue his work on the Jacques Lipchitz interactive project, as well as some work connected to the Lipchitz Documentary, after the Jacques Lipchitz Art Foundation was dissolved. Under this organization, Bassett also worked to promote the interactive system for use documenting other notable public figures, without success.
This series primarily contains records relating to the presentation of the Lipchitz interactive project, which was usually presented under the title "Conversations with Lipchitz." There are also records relating to the Lipchitz documentary and its later releases with French and Spanish subtitles. Other records in the series include invoices mostly addressed to Hanno Mott, records relating to a demonstration of the interactive system in Israel, and an interactive project file that includes informative and promotional letters about Histor Systems, most notably addressed to Bill Gates and President Jimmy Carter (at the time, a prospective subject for an interactive project). The Interactive Project Files includes a list of Histor Systems directors in 1996.
The last installation of the interactive system to be documented here was with the exhibition Lipchitz and the Avant-Garde: From Paris to New York, in 2001 at Krannert Art Museum, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Krannert Art Museum records relate to the financial and logistical operation of the interactive system, as well as marketing and publicity for the exhibition.
Subseries 2.5, Film projects related to Jacques Lipchitz, contains the actual audiovisual content of the interactive project and the Lipchitz documentary, as well as records related to their production.
(Contains photographs of Bassett with Jacques Lipchitz)
This subseries contains published material on Lipchitz collected by Bassett, as well as publicity for Bassett's Lipchitz documentary and interactive projects. A.M. Hammacher's book Lipchitz is inscribed by Jacques Lipchitz.
Oversized item housed in OV 68
Deborah Stott, at the time a graduate student in Art History at Columbia University, recorded roughly 200 hours of conversation with the artist between 1968 and 1970 in Pietrasanta, Italy. The series contains a near-complete run of the sound recordings on 209 sound tape reels (1/4"), as well as detailed typewritten summaries of the subject content for each reel are available at the beginning of the series, and a 32 page transcript of the first reel. 183 of the reels are marked "first dub" and are presumably copies made from the original tape. 26 of the original sound reels are also found, for tape numbers 112-135 and 184-185, and are interfiled with their dubbed copies. Reels 137 and 165 are not extant, but typewritten summaries do exist for those reels. Also found are photographs that document Lipchitz's acquired collection of primitive and ancient art, which are often referred to by number in the interviews. Included are contact sheets, negatives, prints, and photocopies of prints.
This interview was carried out under the auspices of the Jacques Lipchitz Art Foundation and largely funded by a grant from the Ford Foundation.
(includes original reels for #112-128)
(includes original reels for #129-135)
(includes original reels for #184-185)
This subseries contains paper records, artifacts, motion picture film, video, and sound recordings created and used in the production of Bruce Bassett's film projects related to Jacques Lipchitz. Bassett originally shot over 40 hours of motion picture film with synchronized sound recordings in 1971. From this footage he developed the first incarnations of his two main projects: the Jacques Lipcthiz interactive project, also known as "Conversations with Jacques Lipchitz," and a documentary about Lipchitz. Both projects debuted to the public at the 1972 Jacques Lipcthiz retrospective exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. After Lipchitz's death in 1974, Bassett shot additional footage documenting the casting of large-scale Lipchitz sculptures in Italy, and the installations of those sculptures in New York, Philadelphia, and Jerusalem, carried out by his widow, Yulla Lipchitz. This material was used in an updated version of the documentary, which was released around 1977. Subsequent releases occurred in the late 1980s and early 1990s. The interactive project was also exhibited in multiple versions, in a variety of formats as video and computer technology evolved, between 1973 and 2001. See the subseries descriptions below for more detail.
This subseries contains original footage shot by Bassett and his crew and used as the source material for his two film projects documenting Jacques Lipchitz. Bassett's initial filming took place in Italy in August and September of 1971, and later in Philadelphia, Miami, New York, and Jerusalem between 1976 And 1978. Footage from the shoot in Italy contains several long interviews with Lipchitz and footage shot in his Italian studio and foundry. All numbered camera and sound reels from the Italy filming are described in detail in the script book at the beginning of the series. Film and sound footage from the later shoots contain mainly documentation of the posthumous large-scale sculpture installations overseen by Lipchitz's widow, Yulla Lipchitz, as well as multiple interviews with her.
120 of the 171 original sound reels from the Italy filming survive, but very little of the camera footage remains. In addition to original sound reels, a dubbed copy of all of the sound recorded in Italy is found on a smaller set of reels, so any missing original sound reels can be recovered from the dubbed copy. Four miscellaneous, sound-only reels of original sound recordings are also found. None of the original camera reels remain from the Italy shoot, but workprint copies of 20 of the 193 original camera and sound reels were made at a later stage in Bassett's work, possibly to edit new versions of his film projects. These workprints were named "archival prints" by Bassett and are the only remaining raw footage from the 1971 filming period in Italy. Some of them have splices, indicating portions were removed. Reels are listed by the new reel numbers assigned by Bassett when they were re-printed, but their original reel numbers, indexed and described in the script book at the beginning of the series, are also noted. Two unnumbered reels of original footage of Lipchitz working in his studio on the sculpture The Last Embrace are also found in this series.
For later filming in the US and Jerusalem, original camera reels, some with sound on film, and separate original sound reels are found. There is no paper record of these shoots in the collection. Material is arranged by subject and date. Other raw footage found includes four camera reels of sculptures by Lipchitz from the Metropolitan Museum.
Other source material in this series includes stock footage and stock soundtrack, produced by others but used in Bassett's Lipchitz projects, and a couple of short reels of sound effects and titles.
Note that the workprint is silent 16 mm picture unless otherwise indicated, original sound reels are ¼" tape, and soundtrack is 16mm fullcoat magnetic stock. Some of the later foundry and installation footage was shot on reversal positive film with a magnetic stripe soundtrack, identified in the container listing as sound on film.
(A key to original reels contained on each dub reel is found with dub reel 1, box 5, item 6.)
(A pre-production interview, about the pending Metropolitan Museum exhibition)
(Excerpts)
(Original camera reel 137)
(Original camera reels 145-146)
(Original camera reels 148-150)
(Original camera reel 152)
(Original camera reel 163)
(Original camera reels 181-182)
(Original camera reels 184-186)
(Original camera reels 187-188)
(Original camera reels 189-191)
(Original camera reels 192-193)
(original sound reel 131)
(Original sound reel 139-140)
(Original sound reel 142-144)
(Original sound reel 152)
(Original sound reels 158-159)
(Original sound reels 162, 164)
(Original sound reels 166-167)
(Original sound reels 167-169)
(Original sound reels 170-171)
Index on paper, 1 folder
Picture only, no sound
(See also series 5.2, Segments)
This subseries contains the edited film and video created for the Lipchitz interactive project, as well as paper records documenting the production and presentation of its various installations.
Audiovisual materials include multiple versions of "answers" compiled from the Lipchitz interviews filmed in 1971, used in multiple interactive installations between 1972 and 2001. Each version exists in a group of 2 to 4 reels or tapes, in its source format of motion picture film, or its installation format of various video types. Each group and its elements is described using the reel names and numbers assigned by Bassett to maintain their connection to paper documentation, and groups are arranged chronologically. The item headings listed below are direct transcriptions of Bassett's labels. Six miscellaneous reels, which do not appear to belong to any of the main groups of film reels, are arranged after the dated reels. Although they may duplicate some of the dated material, these miscellaneous reels were found to be in better condition than some of their copies, so they were retained.
Also found are 117 small film and soundtrack reels of named segments whose titles correspond to segments listed in the source books. These may be outtakes or workprint of the edited Lipchitz answers.
Paper records in this series include the original questions generated by the public during installations of the interactive project. Questions exist in multiple forms including original handwritten cards and printouts in multiple sets, each with a different arrangement of data. Notebooks include mainly technical and shot notes, but also notes on an Andy Goldsworthy interview. Production files contain detailed notes on the assembly of segments and revisions to the reels, including a negative pull list for a recent revision. The Program Guide contains annotated indexes to segments on each reel or disc, and other technical notes.
Source Books, found in the paper documentation, provide a scene-by-scene content inventory and transcript of the audiovisual material in each version presented to the public between 1972 and 2001. They also contain notes related to the operation of the interactive program. Although all of the source books contain redundant and similar content, each version has its own annotations and a variety of interfiled production records specific to its particular installation. The 2001 source book from the Krannert Art Museum installation also includes a disc directory, photographs of sculptures in the Krannert exhibit, and an article on Lipchitz.
Technical drawings show the way the video equipment was set up in the installations, showing a user in relation to the interactive system display. The Transcript folder includes a collection of Lipchitz's comments on Pablo Picasso gathered from the footage, a portion of which appears to have been licensed to another production company in the 1980s.
(Note on original can: "does not contain Picasso")
(Leader also labeled "D Reel")
workprint and soundtrack in 1 reel
script and 1 videocassette: U-Matic
in shoebox
Oversized item in OV 69
This subseries contains audiovisual and a few paper records related to the documentary Bassett produced about Jacques Lipchitz. The first version was created in 1972 in tandem with the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Lipcthiz retrospective exhibition. The documentary was updated in 1977 with footage added from the posthumous large-scale sculpture installations, and then revised again in 1991.
The subseries includes multiple finished versions of the documentary in their presentation and distribution formats (film and video), and pre-print master elements of the finished versions (A+B roll and internegative; master from which distribution copies are made). Also found are production elements made at different stages of production and revision, excerpts of the finished film compiled for publicity, and two pieces of television coverage of the installation of Bellerophon Taming Pegasus that use Bassett's footage.
Some of the film cans contain paper lab records for prints and edits created over the years.
Additional records related to the documentary are found in Subseries 2.2.1 Business Records, Jacques Lipchitz Art Foundation, and Subseries 2.3, Printed Materials.
(Can with A Roll contains film lab records)
(Film can contains film lab records)
This subseries contains audiovisual material and a few paper records from projects unrelated to Jacques Lipchitz that were also found among Bruce Bassett's papers. Other projects by Bruce Bassett include audiovisual recordings from projects about Isamu Noguchi, Sidney Lifchez, Auguste Rodin, the Storm King sculpture center, IBM, and others, listed below. The Lifchez documentary is well-documented, but records of other projects in the series are incomplete and fragmentary. Also found are projects by others, including a draft of a screenplay, two news films of John F. Kennedy, and several other film titles. The films Dream on Monkey Mountain and Man Is My Name were made by others but were produced or aired by NBC, where Bassett worked, and he may have been involved in their production or broadcast.
(Color negative can contains film lab records)
(2 cassettes are marked "roll 2")
(Label reads "1-12 Lipchitz, 13-24 Noguchi")
(In French)
(Identified within recordings as camera reels 315, 316, 318, 320, 322, 326, 357; location of camera reels unknown)
(Includes multiple versions; also known as Peter Stern's Storm King)
(Contains films by Charles and Ray Eames and copy of Bassett's Lipchitz film)
(Contains transcript)
Letters to Paul Cummings, 1964-1969; and photographs of paintings by Littlefield, 1951-1962. Letters discuss Littlefield's efforts to sell his collection of paintings by Leslie Powell, Howard Gibbs, David (Emery Abraham) Forbes, and others; Littlefield's connection with The Club, the organization of artists and writers formed by Philip Pavia in the early 1950's; and his own painting and criticism.
Transcripts and handwritten drafts of interviews of 86 artists and architects associated with the National Academy of Design, conducted by Lockman. Also included are a few biographical sketches.
Interviewees include: Mrs. Edwin Austin Abbey, Wayman Adams, Robert I. Aiken, Ernest Albert, Alonzo R. Beal, Edward A. Bell, Edwin H. Blashfield, Roy H. Brown, George E. Browne, Arnold Brunner, Alexander S. Calder, Carleton T. Chapman, Benjamin West Clinedinst, Alphaeus Cole, Timothy Cole, Irving E. Couse, Robert B. Crane, Charles C. Curran, B. Franklin De Haven, William R. Derrick, Louis P. Dessar, Thomas W. Dewing, Frederick I. Dielman, Edward Dufner, John W. Dunsmore, Jared B. Flagg, John G. Flanagan, August R. Franzen, Daniel C. French, Sherry E. Fry, Edward Gay, Cass Gilbert, Walter Granville-Smith, Chester Harding, Childe Hassam, Charles W. Hawthorne, William H. Howe, Henry S. Hubbell, William H. Hyde, William S. Jewett, Francis C. Jones, Dora Wheeler Kieth, William Fair Kline, Jonas Lie, Louis Loeb, Will H. Low, Edward McCartan, Frederick MacMonnies, Herman A. MacNeil, Gari Melchers, Francis Luis Mora, H. Siddons Mowbray, Raymond P. R. Neilson, George G. Newell, Robert H. Nisbet, Ivan G. Olinsky, Willard Dryden Paddock, Walter L. Palmer, Arthur Parton, William McGregor Paxton, Ernest C. Peixotto, Joseph Pennell, Edward H. Potthast, Henry Prellwitz, Wilhelm F. Ritschel, Henry Rittenberg, Frederick Roth, Carl Rungius, Emily Sartain, John Sartain, William Sartain, Henry B. Snell, Robert Spencer, Egerton Swartwout, Douglas Volk, Bessie & Robert Vonnoh, Horatio Walker, Harry Watrous, Adolph Weinman, Charles D. Weldon, William Whittemore, Irving Wiles, Frederick B. Williams, and Cullen Yates.
Visiting card for Dr. George Logan autographed by Benjamin West, 1810; an advertisement of Charles Willson Peale's "moving pictures" at his museum; bill from Joseph Richardson, July 5, 1739, for buckles, spoons, etc. bought by R. Hill, Jr., with receipt; receipt for payment for rings from John Moland, Jan. 9, 1761, to Edmund (?) Milne, a silversmith; two letters from James Steel to James Calder, Sept. 21, 1734, mentioning a dozen chairs and a chest of drawers he has made for Calder, and April 27, 1735, about the glass for the doors of an escritoire Calder has ordered.
10 pocket-sized sketchbooks of Harriet and Ernest Longfellow containing charcoal and watercolor sketches, predominantly panoramic views of European and Middle Eastern architectural ruins, landscape scenery, and a number of figure drawings; and 3 notecards describing the sketchbooks and sketches.
Correspondence, biographical and genealogical information, poems, notes, diaries, artwork, sketchbooks, photographs, business papers and printed material relating to the Longacre family, especially James Barton Longacre and Andrew Longacre.
REEL P1-P2: Correspondence and papers of James Barton Longacre, 1819-1857, mostly concerned with his position as engraver of the U.S. Mint, Philadelphia, and his publication THE NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY OF DISTINGUISHED AMERICANS. Letters include correspondence with Asher B. Durand, James Herring, John Neagle, Thomas Sully and George Catlin. Additional material includes diaries, sketches and designs for coinage, a biography, autobiographical notes, and printed material.
REEL 986: Five sketchbooks, ca.1861-1894, of Reverend Andrew Longacre. Sketches depict landscapes, interiors, and monogram designs made in the United States, Europe, North Africa and the Near East. In addition there is a memoranda book kept by Longacre, ca. 1890.
REELS 1046-1048: Letters, including: correspondence between James and his wife; between James and Andrew during the Civil War; and Lydia Longacre's letters from Europe, 1899-1900; and letters from Theodore Bolton to Mrs. James M. Longacre about including James in his book, EARLY AMERICAN PORTRAIT DRAUGHTSMEN IN CRAYONS. Also included are biographical notes on James; an autobiography of Andrew; poetry and writings by James; accounts of a trip to Egypt by Andrew; financial documents relating to James; artwork; designs for coins and sketchbooks by James, Andrew and Lydia and material relating to an engraving of Charles Carroll by James.
REELS 1083 & 1050: Genealogical information on the Stiles and Longacre families; letters from Andrew to his father, James Barton Longacre, and his sister, Sallie, and other family members and friends; a copy of James Barton's 1825 diary; poems and compositions by Andrew; financial and business papers, 1898-1918; 28 photographs depicting portraits of James and Andrew, Lydia E. Longacre and her miniature paintings.
REEL 3091: Two engravings by James after paintings by Benjamin West and a letter from Augusta M. Longacre to Bolton regarding Bolton's biography of James.
Correspondence, teaching files, artwork and printed material documenting Sylvia Loomis' time teaching in the Arts Education program for the Federal Arts Project.
137 pages of notes covering 33 lectures given by Violette De Mazia at the Barnes Foundation on 19th and 20th century art. These unauthorized notes include the orientation lecture, reading assignments, and class discussions.
The Joe Lopez papers and Gallista Gallery records measure 1.7 linear feet and 32.93 GB and date from 1966 to 2016. The collection is comprised of biographical records that include interviews with Lopez, autobiographical writings by Lopez and writings by others, printed and digital materials, artwork, and photographic and moving image materials. Records for the Gallista Gallery include trademark files and legal records pertaining to the lawsuit against Lopez by E and J Gallo Winery over the use of the word "gallo."
Biographical materials include numerous awards and certificates received by Lopez for his work with the U.S. Army and arts related organizations and events, material for his first solo exhibition at the Mission Gallery, and documents relating to his marriage ceremony in 1966. The series also includes Lopez's interviews in digital format and via e-mail correspondence with a college student and Los Inocentes, as well as an interview with Gary Keller about Lopez conducted by Manuel Martinez.
Includes a photograph of Lopez receiving a Certificate of Promotion from the Department of the Army.
Fourth and fifth videos in the recording.
File contains an exhibition announcement, clipping, and price list for Lopez's first solo exhibition.
Interview was conducted via e-mail regarding Lopez.
Writings consist of Lopez's collection of autobiographical short stories and a radio commercial script. Other writings are by Irma I. Rodriguez, a play by Christopher St. John Sampayo, Xavier Garza, and poems by various authors often about Lopez and the Gallista Gallery.
Includes handwritten manuscripts and printed copy.
Includes poems, mostly about Lopez, by Nephtalí De León, Reyes Escalante, Jesse G. Herrera,and Citlali Zentella.
This series contains building records; contracts and agreements; a mix of personal and business correspondence; a fundraising event held early in the gallery's history; press; projects that include files for Arizona State University, Canto del Gallo, and Los Padrinos music album cover art; promotional materials; files mostly relating to the lawsuit against Lopez by E and J Gallo Winery; a scrapbook of printed materials and photographs; and files for the trademark of the Gallista Gallery logo.
Survey is for Gallista Gallery location at 1913 S. Flores Street.
The majority of the correspondence is regarding Lopez's business activities, but is also with friends, family, community members, artists Richard Sanchez and Jose Esquivel, former State Rep. Jim Solis, staff members at the Serie Project, and with supporters of Lopez during the lawsuit with E and J Gallo Winery.
Includes publishing and other projects with Arizona State University, and a sound recording of Puro Gallo by Los Padrinos. Commercially published recording not transferred.
The majority of the materials are legal papers regarding the lawsuit against Lopez by E and J Gallo Winery and include files for law firms, the Puro Gallo Defense Fund, and the gallery's lease.
The scrapbook contains exhibition announcements and other printed material produced for Gallista Gallery along with photographs of events and people associated with the gallery.
Includes trademark reports and U.S. Patent Office files for the trademark of Gallista gallery products.
Printed materials contain art reproductions, booklets and pamphlets, Lopez's first business card, clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, flyers, magazines, newsletters, and posters relating to Lopez, his career, and Gallista Gallery.
Includes several issues of Los Inocentes Not Guilty in which Lopez is credited as the art editor.
Artwork consists of drawings, mock-ups, and sketches by Lopez and unidentified artists. Some of the preparatory drawings and sketches are labeled with the final artwork's title. Mock-ups include sketches with text for flyers and other projects, as well as a print on fabric.
Photographic and moving image materials of Lopez are photographs, digital prints, and in digital format; photographs of events; photographs and a digital print of the Gallista Gallery; and photographs and slides of works of art.
Includes photographs and digital prints, many labeled, of Lopez and others at exhibitions and other events.
Second video in recording.
Third video in recording.
Letters, photographs, slides, printed material, and sound recordings. Included are letters to Lorence and his wife from Carl Nelson, 1964-1986; photographs and slides of Nelson, Lorence and others, Nelson's house in Maine, exhibitions and work by him; clippings; photographs of work by Harry Solon inscribed with Christmas wishes to Nelson; list of locations of Nelson's religious paintings given to Maine churches; a sound recording by Lorence, after a trip to Russia, of his conversation with Nelson and Egyptologist Richard Pierce about Russian artists and museums.
Other recordings include a conversation between Lorence and Nelson, 1980, an interview by art historian Robin Goodale with Nelson, Lorence, and William Kienbusch for a PBS radio station, and a memorial service for Nelson.
The William Cushing Loring papers measure 0.7 linear feet and date from 1899-1961. The collection documents Loring's artistic education in Paris and London and his career as an artist and instructor through correspondence, printed materials, and photographs.
Correspondence consists primarily of letters from William Cushing Loring to other Loring family members, including Stanton D. Loring, his father; Mrs. Stanton D. Loring, his mother; Robert Loring, his brother; and Elizabeth and Helen Loring, his sisters. Letters document Loring's life as an artist living abroad in Paris and London. He writes of visits to the studios of John Singer Sargent, Francis David Millet, and Lawrence Alma-Tadema; trips to museums and galleries; excursions to copy paintings in the Louvre and the London National Gallery; evening entertainment; and accounts of daily expenses. Some letters addressed to his parents include illustrations, sketches in ink and graphite, as well as miniature paintings. Letters from Helen Loring and Robert Loring to their parents, as well as unidentified letters, are also present. Envelopes are for the most part matched to letters, but fragment envelopes and letters are integrated within collection.
Printed materials include exhibition catalogs, newspaper obituary clippings for William Cushing Loring, bulletins for Rhode Island School of Design alumni, a holiday card for Loring's studio, and business cards.
Photographic material includes photographs of works of art by William Cushing Loring and photographs of the artist. Photographs of the artist include portraits and photographs of Loring with his family. Included among photographs of works of art are photos by Elmer Chickering.
This series, which makes up the bulk of the collection, documents William Cushing Loring's time spent living and studying in Paris and London from 1900-1904. Letters to his parents document Loring's visits to the studios of John Singer Sargent, Francis Davis Millet, and Lawrence Alma-Tadema; painting excursions; painting copies at the Louvre; studies at the Academie Colarossi and the Academie Delecluse; entertainment and nightlife; and daily expenses. Letters addressed to both of his parents and to his mother, Mrs. Stanton D. Loring, include illustrations and sketches in ink and graphite, as well as miniature watercolors. The illustrations often show depictions of Loring's daily life, thumbnail sketches of works in progress, and portraits.
Letters from Helen Loring and Robert Loring to their parents document their trips abroad to visit their brother in Paris and London. General correspondence addressed to Stanton D. Loring and unidentified correspondence is also included.
Folder includes typed excerpt from diary of Elizabeth Frost "My trip abroad" 1904 found with letters.
These illustrations were separated from their associated correspondence before processing.
Found in this series are photocopies of newspaper clippings of obituaries for William Cushing Loring, business cards, a studio card, and originals and photocopies of catalogs from exhibitions at Providence, Rhode Island, and at the Corcoran Gallery. Also included are Rhode Island School of Design alumni bulletins, which show an obituary for Loring, as well as a reproduction of a portrait by Loring.
Included in this series are photographs of William Cushing Loring and his work. Photographs of the artist include studio portraits taken in Paris and photographs of Loring with his family. Photographs of works of art include photographs by Elmer Chickering. Photographic types include silver gelatin, copy prints, and an acetate negative.
Oversized materials housed in OV 3.
Negative is a duplicate image of photograph of William Cushing Loring from Box 2 folder 11.
Oversized materials housed in OV 3.
Correspondence, 1917-1973, with curators and officials of the museum, concerning the museum, collecting and the contemporary art scene; inventories; data sheets; accession cards; deeds of gift; press releases; a speech by Harrison; a research data file (222 items) including conservation reports, condition reports, and research on the history of the paintings; an inventory of books donated by Harrison to the museum library; a few photographs; letters, inventories and miscellany relating to the South Sea Collection and the Collection of Western paintings; lists of Harrison gifts and loans, 1938-1963; and miscellany.
Correspondence of Los Angeles County Museum directors William A. Bryan and Frank S. Daggett, and their assistants Louise Upton, Mary Marsh, and Helen Wood, with artists Andrew Dasburg, Robert Henri, Dana Bartlett, Guy Rose, Carl Oscar Borg and others. The letters relate to exhibitions, artists' visits, thank you and congratulatory notes, and specific paintings loaned or sold to the museum.
Biographical sketches of artists who have exhibited at Lotte Jacobi Place and lists of works exhibited, 1964-1968, includes the following artists: Christopher Cook, Robert and Frances Flaherty, John Herrick, Lotte Jacobi, William H. Manahan, Jr., Robert E. Mueller, Louise Nevelson, Albert Renger-Patzsch, L.M.A. Roy, Luther Thompson, Minor White and Gustav Wolf.
Organizational papers of the Louis Comfort Tiffany Foundation, including legal documents, meeting records, letters, catalogs, and miscellaneous papers.
REELS N69/25 & N69/26: Business records, including minutes of the Board of Trustees and other committees, 1918-1968; a small group of letters; resolutions of the foundation; exhibition catalogs of Tiffany Gallery shows and of Louis C. Tiffany exhibitions; and some miscellaneous papers. Persons associated with the foundation include Cass Gilbert, Robert B. Hale, Childe Hassam, Francis C. Jones, George J. Lober, Paul Manship, Henry Allen Moe, Hobart Nichols, Kimon Nicolaides, Ogden M. Pleissner, Robert Vonnoh, and Harry W. Watrous.
REEL 74: A grant of personal property from Louis C. Tiffany to the Foundation; a grant of real property from Tiffany to the Foundation; the constitution and amendments of the Foundation; and a brochure describing the Foundation's scholarship program.
Biographical sketch on Halsey Ives, Chief of the Department; Halsey Ives' files, including general correspondence, correspondence and material relating to the Art building, confidential letters, letters with artists' biographies for the Handbook for the Exposition, shipping department correspondence, and personal correspondence. Also included are Charles M. Kurtz's files of correspondence; Frederic Allen Whiting correspondence; Jury of Awards correspondence and lists; applications from artists to International, National, and Local Advisory Committees; monthly reports; clippings; printed material; and miscellaneous invitations.
The scattered papers of art historian and painter Janice Lovoos measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1966 to 1990. Found are biographical materials on Lovoos and her son Edmund Penney, copies of vintage family photographs, printed material, and writings by Lovoos relating to her work on California art and artists.
Biographical materials include biographical sketches and resumes for Lovoos and her son Edmund Penney. Also found are reproductions of Lovoos's paintings of flowers onto notecards. Photographs are reprints of family photographs and are annotated. Family photographs are all modern prints and depict Lovoos's parents; family portraits in Montana; Lovoos in Los Angeles; Chouinard School of Art students; and other family shots from the mid-1920s to the 1980s, including her husband, painter Frederic Penney with Millard Sheets. Printed materials consist of newspaper and magazine clippings concerning Lovoos. Also found are writings by Lovoos on California art and artists.
Includes one volume of text on the sculptural iconoclasm of New England gravestones, and nine volumes of photographs (ca. 500) of gravestones.
The papers of ceramicist Glen Lukens measure 1.6 linear feet and date from 1920 to 1983. The bulk of the papers consist of letters from Lukens to family members, and other correspondence with family, friends, and colleagues. Notably, letters describe Lukens' time working in Haiti to establish a ceramic industry, his views on United States involvement in World War II, and the Watts Riots in Los Angeles in 1965. Also found are biographical materials, scattered writings and notes on ceramics and other subjects, printed materials, and photographs.
Found are biographical sketches of Glen Lukens, awards and certificates, lists of family and friends, receipts, and Lukens' will and estate papers.
Glen Lukens correspondence contains letters from friends and colleagues and scattered letters from family members. Found are many letters Lukens wrote to his aunt by marriage Carlotta Lukens, sister Edith Lukens Stone, and niece Vera Stone O'Dell. His letters often discuss his works and experimental techniques, career, feelings on race relations within the United States and Haiti, and his disappointment with the United States' involvement in World War II.
Notable correspondents include Albert M. Johnson, Mryton Purkiss, Congressman Will Rogers, and Beatrice Wood. Letters from Lukens' students, written while serving in World War II and from Haitian students Marcus Douton and Hugo Racine comment on Lukens' involvement and connection to his students. Included are two illustrated letters, one by H.C. Westermann and the other by Glen Lukens sent to his niece, Vera O'Dell.
This series contains speeches given at an award luncheon in honor of Glen Lukens for Lord and Taylor department store and scattered notes by Glen Lukens on ceramics and clay. Works by others include poetry and a play and are likely by former students of Lukens. Signed works are by Ruby Berkley Goodwin, C.M.Henson, Vachel Lindsay, and Jacqueline Preston Peabody.
Printed materials consist of clippings, including articles by Lukens, exhibition catalogs, blank postcards, and press releases.
Black and white photographs depict Lukens at work and in his studio; his home; Carlotta Lukens; Haiti; works of art by Lukens including a portfolio submitted to the Society of Designer Craftsmen of New York City; and works by others.
Scrapbooks; correspondence; exhibition catalogs; photographs; and some biographical material.
Reel NLU-1: a scrapbook, 1902-1948, of clippings mostly relating Luks, and to contemporary artists with whom Luks was associated.
Reel 95: clippings; correspondence, including two letters from James Huneker; exhibition catalogs, including one from an exhibition at the Brooklyn Museum, Nov. 1943-Jan. 1944; photographs; and 3 scrapbooks.
Correspondence; biographical information; family memorabilia; scrapbook; subject files; photographs; writings; business and financial records; and printed material.
REEL 2423: Material regarding MacAgy's research on Gerald Murphy and Morgan Russell included as correspondence with Gerald Murphy and Jean Lipman about an article on Murphy for ART IN AMERICA, notes for and drafts of the article; and a typescript of it, GERALD MURPHY (16 pages) with 4 photos of Murphy's work. Materials regarding Russell includes: a letter to MacAgy from Henri Dorra, February 25, 1960, about documents relating to Russell; a handwritten statement by Russell about his work, 1916 (3 pages) [an edited version appears in the catalog, THE FORUM EXHIBITION OF MODERN AMERICAN PAINTERS, Anderson Galleries, 1916]; a pencil sketch with notes by Russell, ca. 1938; a photocopy of a statement by Russell about his work, 1947 (4 pages); 2 biographical essays on Russell; and a printed brochure, MORGAN RUSSELL SOME AUTHORITATIVE OPINIONS, undated.
UNMICROFILMED: Correspondence; photographs and slides; biographical information; family memorabilia; Elizabeth Tillett's scrapbook; subject files; writings and notes; business and financial records; and printed material.
Six director's statements and a report to the board of the Contemporary Arts Association by MacAgy, 1952-1959 and a preface, table of contents, and a list of illustrations for MacAgy's dissertation, THE FOLK ART OF THE WESTERN RESERVE, Western Reserve University, 1939.
Nine photographs of Macdonald-Wright, a photograph of 3 unidentified men with a sculpture, 2 color wheels, and 3 color charts.
The papers of Southern California painter Stanton Macdonald-Wright measure 17.2 linear feet and date from 1890 to 2008. The collection contains biographical material including address books and interview transcripts; correspondence with family, friends, and artists, including Morgan Russell, and his wife Suzanne Binon, Michel and Suzanne Seuphor, Ann and John Summerfield, and Bethany Wilson; contracts, correspondence, and other material related to exhibitions MacDonald-Wright participated in or that featured his works in the decades following his death; notes, drafts and manuscripts for books, and other writings; diaries and travel journals; invoices, inventories, legal and estate documents, and other personal business records; scrapbooks consisting of clippings and exhibition materials; clippings, exhibition announcements, exhibition catalogs, and other printed materials; sketches and other artwork; photographs, slides and transparencies of MacDonald-Wright, family portraits, travels, and artwork.
Biographical material consists of address books, interview transcripts, and obituary and funeral material.
Correspondence consists of letters with family, friends, and artists, including Morgan Russell, and his wife Suzanne Binon, Michel and Suzanne Seuphor, Ann and John Summerfield, and Bethany Wilson.
Exhibition files consists of contracts, correspondence, and some printed material related to exhibitions that Macdonald-Wright participated in or that has featured his works in the decades following his death. Some of the exhibitions include the Southern California Art Project, Kineidoscope film, and "Color and Myth: Stanton MacDonald-Wright and Syncronism."
Writings consist of drafts of essays, plays, and book manuscripts. There are drafts of A Treatise on Color with palettes and color wheels, The Basis of Culture, and Macdonald-Wright's autobiography Bittersweet: An Artist's Life. At the end of the series are a number of files containing photographs, printed material, and some notes that Macdonald-Wright used for various book projects.
Diaries consist of a number of diaries and travel journals. One diary was written in Paris in 1909 in which Macdonald-Wright muses over the aesthetics of art and his color theories. Five additional disbound diaries cover his life from 1939-1973. Travel diaries date from 1959-1972 and cover trips to Italy, Japan, and Hawaii.
Personal business records consists of inventory cards and lists, invoices, property records, and legal documents related to the Macdonald-Wright estate. Also included are files between the estate and various galleries, such as the Esther Robles Gallery and the Goldfield Galleries, in regards to donations of works of art during both his active career and by his estate in the years after his death.
Scrapbooks consist of a scrapbook related to exhibitions featuring MacDonald-Wright's works and scrapbooks of clipping.
Printed material includes a copy of Les Synchromistes exhibition catalog, a newspaper clipping, and The Future of Painting by Willard Wright. Artwork consists of blueprints for Macdonald-Wright's Synchrome Kineidoscope, a color and light projecting machine first envisioned by Macdonald-Wright and Morgan Russell as early as 1913 and finally completed in the late 1950s. Also included are newpaper and magazine clipping, exhibition announcements, and exhibition catalogs.
Artwork consists of a sketchbook, and a number of sketches and drawings.
Photographic material consists of photographs of Stanton Macdonald-Wright and portraits and photographs of his family. Among these photographs is a glass plate negative of his family coat-of-arms. Also included are photographs, slides and transparencies of travels to Japan and Hawaii, and of Macdonald-Wright's artwork. There are also five glass plate images of some of Macdonald-Wright's paintings.
Biographical material consists of address books, interview transcripts, and obituary and funeral material.
Correspondence consists of letters with family, friends, and artists, including Morgan Russell, and his wife Suzanne Binon, Michel and Suzanne Seuphor, Ann and John Summerfield, and Bethany Wilson.
Exhibition files consists of contracts, correspondence, and some printed material related to exhibitions that Macdonald-Wright participated in or that has featured his works in the decades following his death. Some of the exhibitions include the Southern California Art Project, Kineidoscope film, and "Color and Myth: Stanton MacDonald-Wright and Syncronism."
Disc 1 is labeled, "Stanton MacDonald Wright (Retrospective) Color, Myth, & Music."
Disc 2 is labeled, "Stanton-MacDonald-Wright Color, Myth, & Music Retrospective (Finalized)."
Writings consist of drafts of essays, plays, and book manuscripts. There are drafts of A Treatise on Color with palettes and color wheels, The Basis of Culture, and Macdonald-Wright's autobiography Bittersweet: An Artist's Life. At the end of the series are a number of files containing photographs, printed material, and some notes that Macdonald-Wright used for various book projects.
Only contains 3 of the satires.
Tape 1, Side 1 labeled, "SMW recording for Sm. Stanton. Tape of Visit in August 1970 at his Pac. Palisades home."
Tape 1, Side 2 labeled, "Continuation of '70 visit. Voices of SMW, Jean, Tamara, Bethany, Stanton, & Junior."
Tape 2 is unlabeled.
Diaries consist of a number of diaries and travel journals. One diary was written in Paris in 1909 in which Macdonald-Wright muses over the aesthetics of art and his color theories. Five additional disbound diaries cover his life from 1939-1973. Travel diaries date from 1959-1972 and cover trips to Italy, Japan, and Hawaii.
Personal business records consists of inventory cards and lists, invoices, property records, and legal documents related to the Macdonald-Wright estate. Also included are files between the estate and various galleries, such as the Esther Robles Gallery and the Goldfield Galleries, in regards to donations of works of art during both his active career and by his estate in the years after his death.
Scrapbooks consist of a scrapbook related to exhibitions featuring Macdonald-Wright's works and scrapbooks of clipping.
Printed material includes a copy of Les Synchromistes exhibition catalog, a newspaper clipping, and The Future of Painting by Willard Wright. Artwork consists of blueprints for Macdonald-Wright's Synchrome Kineidoscope, a color and light projecting machine first envisioned by Macdonald-Wright and Morgan Russell as early as 1913 and finally completed in the late 1950s. Also included are newpaper and magazine clipping, exhibition announcements, and exhibition catalogs.
Artwork consists of blueprints for Macdonald-Wright's Synchrome Kineidoscope, a color and light projecting machine that involved multiple projectors and film, and a sketchbook.
Photographic material consists of photographs of Stanton Macdonald-Wright and portraits and photographs of his family, Among these photographs is a glass plate negative of his family coat-of-arms. Also included are photographs, slides and transparencies of travels to Japan and Hawaii, and of Macdonald-Wright's artwork. There are also five glass plate images of some of MacDonald-Wright's paintings.
Boxes 17 and 18 are primarily empty, labeled envelopes used to house the photographs of artwork. There are some individual slides and transparencies mixed in with the envelopes.
There is one glass plate of the Saunders Coat-of-Arms which is either the original or duplicate for the photograph in the Saunders Coat-of-Arms file (12.27).
There are five glass plates of some of MacDonald-Wright's paintings.
Mostly empty manila envelopes used to store photos of artwork earlier in the series. Contains the title of the work, date, and dimensions on the front. There are some individual slides and transparencies mixed in with the envelopes.
Letter to the editor of the Chicago Evening Post regarding the review of MacFall's biography of Aubrey Beardsley.
Printed biographical sketch; 18 photographs of MacRae's paintings, 130 clippings about MacRae's exhibitions during 1923-1937, and 10 exhibition catalogs and art magazines.
Photographs and printed materials relating to Magafan's painting career.
Reel 3134: Photograph, ca. 1950, of Ethel and Jenne Magafan taken by Konrad Cramer; and printed material, 1952-1982, including exhibition catalogs, announcements, a poster, and a newsletter.
Reel NDA 14: Invitations and notifications of various competitions for the Section of Fine Arts, included are photographs, specifications of areas to be decorated, and correspondence particularly from Edward Rowan.
Included are photographs of Charles Mahoney with Sanford B. D. Low and Happy Horrigan; Low, at Student Auction at Museum School, Boston; Low and Happy Horrigan on Museum Road, Boston; and Low with ukelele among a group of students at Museum School, Boston, photographer(s) unknown; four of students clowning around in front of a car and in a cafeteria, including Mahoney, Low, Horrigan, Burt Coughlin, Tucker Curry, Elliot Laucks, and George Runyon. (Photographer(s) unknown.) Also included is a group photo of Men's Life class at the School, 1925-1926, photographed by Mahoney including Freeman Garniss, Walter Heffron, Laurence Hobbs, Alphonse Shelton and Vitale Terletsky, Charles Richenberger, Brown, Sanford B.D. Low, Weiss, Harold K. Zimmerman and Samuel Thal, Elliot Laucks and Benjamin Lanza.
Newspaper clippings, photographs of works of art, sketches, and exhibtion material Included are an obituary; memorial exhibition announcement; two exhibition catalogues, 1959 and 1963; two postcards of sculpture by Maldarelli, "to my sweetheart", May 10, 1958, and to "Frances," undated; four photographs of sculpture by Maldarelli; a signed sketch on a linen napkin; and illustrated notes to "Frances" from Oronzio and Thelma (four pages).
The papers of woodworker and furniture maker Sam Maloof measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1954 to 2003. The collection consists of clippings and miscellaneous printed materials related to Maloof and woodworking, as well as photocopies of correspondence between Maloof and Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter.
The series consists of clippings and miscellaneous printed materials related to Maloof and woodworking, as well as photocopies of correspondence between Maloof and Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter.
The papers of Abraham manievich measure 2.1 linear feet and date from 1883-1973. Material includes correspondence, clippings, a scrapbook, and loose scrapbook pages regarding Abraham Manievich and printed material.
Correspondence is primarily from family. Also found are letters from David Burliuk, Sam Ostrowsky, Joseph Stern, Boris Grigoriev, and others; a scrapbook, 1909-1973, embossed "Abraham Manievich" containing articles in Hebrew, Russian, and English; loose scrapbook pages containing printed material, 1913-1936; and additional newspaper clippings.
Over 600 subject files containing Mann's research on the history of photography; and an extensive interview conducted by Mann with Imogen Cunningham.
REELS 1860-1872: 630 files cover photographers, photo exhibitions, societies, publications, and collections and contain biographical information, correspondence, published and unpublished transcripts by Mann, exhibition catalogs and announcements, price lists, photographs, organization records, clippings and printed material along with Mann's interviews of Wynn Bullock, Imogen Cunningham (partial), and Edward Ruscha. Photographs are by Linda Connor, Imogen Cunningham (includes one of dancer Martha Graham), Judy Dater (of Cunningham), Robert Heinecken, Anne Noggle, Leland Rice, Charles Swedlund, Arthur Tress, Jerry Uelsmann, Todd Walker, Jack Welpott, and Brett Weston.
REEL 5051 (fr. 390-600): Interview (232 p. transcript from 3 sound reels, 3 in.) of Imogen Cunningham conducted by Mann, 1960-1973, in preparation for her book, Imogen Cunningham: Photographs. Cunningham speaks of the sale and exhibition of her prints; being a "darkroom slave"; portrait photography; photographs as documents; the "soft-focus era"; teaching; and the f/64 Group. Cunningham comments on 104 of her photographs, including her portraits of Edward Weston and Margrethe Mather, Martha Graham, Cary Grant, Alfred Stieglitz, Upton Sinclair, Adedee Ozenfant, Frieda Kahlo Rivera, Getrude Stein, Shen Yao, Lyonel Feininger, Morris Graves, Anna Freud, and Minor White. She recalls Diane Arbus, Arthur Fellig, Paul Strand, and others.
Correspondence; writings; family records; photographs; calendar notebooks; and clippings.
REELS NY59-15-NY59-17: Correspondence, 1940-1947; manuscripts of writings on art; family records; photographs; and clippings. Correspondents include Charles Dana Gibson, Henry Kreis, and Booth Tarkington.
REELS N714-N717: Calendar notebooks, 1925-1965.
UNMICROFILMED: Photostat of the Sangston family tree, made at Massillon, Ohio, in 1919. From the original owned by Paul Manship.
Photographs of Margulies and Margulies' work, biographical information, exhibition catalogues and announcements, and miscellaneous printed items.
The records of the Marian Locks Gallery measure 0.6 linear feet and date from 1932 and 1968 to 1991. The records document the history of the Philadelphia gallery through exhibition schedules; price lists for one person and group shows; artists' files on Ronald Bateman, Salvatore Pinto, and Gerald Pogach; press releases; and printed material, including 3 issues of ML Newsletter, 1984, exhibition announcements, exhibition catalogs, and newspaper clippings of reviews of shows at the gallery. Among the artists represented are Edna Andrade, Tom Chimes, Ray Metzker, Elizabeth Osborne, and Warren Rohrer.
The papers of sculptor Phyllis Mark measure 1.0 linear feet and date from circa 1939 to 1978. Found are artworks, biographical materials, correspondence including with Fritz Glarner, notes, personal business records, and photographs of Mark and others and of works of art.
Artworks include three illustrated notebooks of ink sketches and notes, and scattered pencil sketches. Biographical material consists of resumes and a title card for a work of art. Correspondence is with family and friends including Fritz and Lucie Glarner and Judith Rothschild, institutions, and museums. Scattered notes include one notebook. Personal business records contain price lists, sales records, and receipts for materials. Photographs include portraits of Mark with her sculpture, and snapshots of Mark as a young woman, with her family and friends, and at events. Also found are photographs of works of art and of exhibitions, many of which are labeled and annotated. Printed materials focus on Mark's career and include clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and periodicals.
Administrative files, correspondence and printed material pertaining to the activities of the Mark Rothko Foundation.
Administrative files reports and activity summaries of the Mark Rothko Foundation and also pertain to the Foundation's donation to the National Gallery of Art. Correspondence includes letters between Donald Blinken and members of the Board of Trustees of the Foundation concerning exhibitions, special projects and donations of Mark Rothko's work. Printed material includes exhibition pamphlets and postcards as well a newspaper clippings relating to Mark Rothko.
Published in New York in 1970.
A 4 p. letter to "My dear Albert [Sterner?]," describing a show where Marsh did not sell anything, but appreciated the opportunity to see all works together; and an 8 p. letter to an unidentified person describing Marsh's painting motifs, and stating that it is Marsh's object to show "the noble side of modern industry."
The papers of artist and educator John Marshall measure 2.1 linear feet and date from the 1960s to early 2000s. The collection sheds light on Marshall's career through professional files, photographs, and artwork. Professional files include resumes, awards and certificates, professional correspondence, some project files, printed material, two scrapbooks, and a film reel. Photographs consist of slides of Marshall's work and his artwork series, some of which depict Marshall working in his studio. Also found are transparencies of his work and exhibition displays; scant candid and portrait snapshots of the artist; and mounted photographs of his work. Artwork found in the collection is mostly design sketches of metalwork projects for jewelry, pots, cups, and silverware done in charcoal and pencil; and two paintings.
Found here are resumes, awards and certificates Marshall received from professional organizations and colleges, letters sent by universities and museums to thank Marshall for lectures and workshop presentations he gave, documentation on donations of work, and exhibition records. Also found are a statement, description, and printed material related to Marshall's enamel plaque for the Edmonds United Methodist Church; printed material from exhibitions, publicity campaigns, and clippings; and two scrapbooks composed of printed material, awards, correspondence, and some photographs. The collection also includes a film reel that contains footage from a promotional film created by the Society of North American Goldsmiths. The footage depicts metalsmiths in their studios as well as examples of their work.
Promotional Film
This series contains slides of Marshall's artwork series, some of which depict Marshall working in his studio; transparencies of his work and exhibition displays; scant candid and portrait snapshots of the artist; and mounted photographs of various works by Marshall.
Artwork includes mostly oversized design sketches of jewelry, pots, cups, and silverware done in charcoal and pencil. Some of the sketches are in color, but the majority of them are black and white. Also present are two paintings of Marshall's, xeroxes, and one presentation board of a drawn teapot design.
Sketches, photos of works, personal photos, exhibition catalogues, clippings, biographical outline, bibliography and announcements.
40 photographs and negatives, many oversized, of Reginald Marsh, showing Marsh sketching at Coney Island. The photographer is not identified but is likely Gene Pyle, a Life magazine photographer.
Two yearbooks, 1915 and 1916, from the Lawrenceville School in Lawrenceville, New Jersey, illustrated by Reginald Marsh, a student at the school. Henry H. Strater was a classmate.
The Ezio Martinelli papers measure 2.4 linear feet and date from circa 1944-1973. Biographical materials contain Martinelli's resume. Correspondence is with various museums, galleries, and other organizations. Personal business records contain receipts for artwork shipments and travel documents. Printed material consists of exhibition catalogs, news clippings, and various publications. Photographic material consists of photographs of Martinelli and his artwork.
Biographical materials contain Martinelli's resume.
Correspondence is with various museums, art galleries, foundries, colleges and universities, businesses, and other organizations.
Personal business records contain receipts for artwork shipments and travel documents.
Printed material consists of exhibition catalogs, news clippings, and various publications relating to artwork as well as a copy of American Academy in Rome Report 1959-1964 (1964), and John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation 1961 and 1962 Reports of the President and of the Treasurer (1962).
Photographic material consists of photographs of Martinelli and his artwork.
The papers of Giovanni Martino and Martino family measure 2.5 linear feet and date from 1913 to 2022. Giovanni Martino's career as a painter, and to a lesser extent, his work with his brothers at Martino Studios, is documented though biographical material, correspondence, printed material, photographs, artwork, and one scrapbook. Also found are papers documenting the painting careers of his wife, Eva, and daughters, Nina and Babette.
Giovanni Martino's papers include scattered biographical material, such as awards and curriculum vitae; a small amount of correspondence documenting awards, sales, and exhibition of his artwork; and exhibition catalogs, news clippings, and other printed material documenting his career and the activities of the Martino family. Photographs include portraits of Martino as well as family photographs of Martino as a child, with his brothers, and with his wife and children. A few photographs depict Martino painting outdoors. Also found are figure and landscape drawings on paper by Martino. Some of his early drawings are signed with the alias "M. Giovanni." One scrapbook contains letters, news clippings, exhibition publications, and photographs.
Oversize material housed in box 4, folder 1
Oversize material housed in box 4, folder 2
Oversize material housed in box 4, folder 3
Oversize material housed in box 4, folder 4
Oversized material housed in box 4, folder 5
Eva Martino's papers consist of awards, exhibition publications, and many news clippings documenting her career as a painter. Many of these publications are for group exhibitions with her husband and daughters. Also found are a few original ink drawings by Eva, personal photographs of her and her family, and few letters documenting her professional activities.
Nina Martino's papers include documentation on exhibitions, including a retrospective of her work entitled "Illumined Solitude," special events, records of her work as a student at Temple University, and awards. Also found are childhood drawings and ink drawings of figures and animals, as well as watercolor and ink illustrations. Photographs depict Nina as a child, with her family, and her artwork.
Found here are the papers documenting Babette Martino's career as a painter, including awards, professional correspondence, fellowship records, exhibition catalogs, publications, and a portfolio containing images of her work. Additionally, her papers include a few personal items such as her baby book and photographs depicting Babette as a child, with family, and at events.
The papers of Martyl Langsdorf, professionally known by just her first name, Martyl, date from 1918 to 1977 and measure 2.6 linear feet. Included within the collection is correspondence; subject files; biographical data; writings and notes; sketches; photographs; exhibition catalogs and announcements; guest books; price lists; receipts; reproductions; clippings; and printed materials.
Sketches, 1936-1975, made in the United States, Mexico, Europe, and Japan. In addition there is a 1929 newspaper clipping.
Biographical data; letters, 1936-1937, to her mother Aimee Schweig from Thomas Hart Benton, John Steuart Curry, Joe Jones and Grant Wood; files of letters from Carl Holty, Horst W. Janson and Lancelot Law Whyte; a file on Charles Hawthorne containing his painting notes and a photo; subject files on the ACA Gallery, Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, Art Institute of Chicago, Feingarten Gallery, Kovlar Gallery, Oriental Institute, the Renaissance Society, and the Unitarian Church of Evanston, Illinois, containing correspondence and financial material; writings and notes; sketches of Langsdorf by friends; exhibition catalogs and announcements; guest books; price lists; receipts for sales and rentals of her paintings; printed material on the St. Genevieve School of art; and photographs, ca. 1935-1970, of Langsdorf, her family, her paintings, exhibition installations, Langsdorf at work on a mural for the Unitarian Church of Evanston, Illinois, and artists Thomas Hart Benton, Arnold Blanch, Adolf Dehn, Doris Lee, Boardman Robinson, Sequieros, and others, and a photograph by Fritz Henle, 1940, of a picnic at the Colorado Springs Fine Arts Center.
Correspondence with Edward Rowan of the Public Buildings Administration, Section of Fine Arts, and contracts, 1940-1944, concerning Langsdorf's watercolors for the Carville, La. Marine Hospital, murals for post offices in Russell, Kansas and St. Genevieve, Missouri, and for the Recorder of Deeds Building in Washington, D.C., and for related exhibitions; a photocopy of a letter from collector Joseph Hirshhorn, Jan. 18, 1943, regarding his purchases of Langsdorf's work; general correspondence, 1958-1972; price lists; and printed material, 1937-1976, including press releases, archaeological newsletters, exhibition announcements and clippings.
An autobiographical statement; a list of publications, exhibitions and awards; an editorial, "Conserving the Old Masters," October 1972; and magazine articles about Mason.
Publications, 1873-1972, of the Massachusetts College of Art including: student magazines, THE CENTER OF VISION, 1903-1921, THE ARTGUM, 1922-1927, THE VIGNETTE, 1927-1928, INTAGLIO, 1963-1968, and others, yearbooks, 1930-1969; commencement programs, 1876-1971; curriculum catalogs, 1875-1970; alumni bulletins, 1915-1940; faculty newsletters, 1967-1970; and other printed material.
Biographical sketches; correspondence with Mast's family and others; photographs of Mast, his family, John Carroll's art class at the Society of Arts and Crafts in Detroit and other art classes, WPA murals, and other works of art; three sketchbooks, 1935-1952; ca. 50 loose sketches; writings, including manuscripts of "Egg Tempera" and "Philosophy of Art"; exhibition catalogues; clippings; and printed materials.
ADDITION: Correspondence, photographs, a sketchbook, 1928, and drawings from the 1930's and 1940's, including a sketch for the mural, "Nature's Kin" for the Children's Section of the Herrick Public Library, Holland, Mich.
Exhibition catalog of La Tour's collection at the Steele Gallery in Bloomington, Indiana, October-November, 1940; handwritten descriptions of each painting in the show; and a photocopy of a review of the show.
The Robert B. and Beatrice C. Mayer Family Collection records and papers measure 22.0 linear feet and date from circa 1950 -2021. The material documents the Mayer Family Collection of works of art and includes biographical material, subject files, loan and exhibition files, interviews, photographs, financial records, administrative files, and printed material documenting sales, provenance, and conservation records. Also included is a small plastic bag of metal pins that came from a Lucas Samaras sculpture that accompanies extensive documentation. A portion of the collection also documents the Mayer's personal lives.
Biographical material, diaries, correspondence, notes, writings, business records, sketches, scrapbook, clippings, and miscellaneous material.
Correspondence, undated and 1906-1979, is mainly letters from Maynard to his parents; also includes letters from Charles Bittinger, Alphaeus P. Cole, Olive Rush, Bessie Potter Vonnoh, and Irving R. Wiles.
Notes and writings, are by Maynard and by his daughter, Sylvia. Business records, 1902-1937, include leases, receipts, miscellaneous financial records, and material relating to his patents.
There are fifty-six sketches, undated and 1902-1915, including a floorplan of Maynard's studio in 1902; a scrapbook, 1895-1898, containing clippings, letters, and 2 sketches, mainly relating to the HARVARD LAMPOON; clippings, 1898-1976; exhibition announcements and catalogs, 1905-1917, miscellaneous printed material, undated and 1898-1901; biographical material, undated and 1938; 7 diaries kept by Maynard, 1888-1899 and 1960; and one, 1897, by Margaret Field Maynard.
Photographs, undated and 1914-1979, are of Maynard, of a trip to Tucson, 1914, of a play entitled "Puppets of Fate", showing F. Luis Mora, Charles C. Curran, Charles Coburn, Kenneth MacKenna (aka Leo Mielziner), and Mr. Hubbell in costume. Also included are photographs of Beryl Morse, Gladys Lee Wiles, Helen Chadwick, Bessie Potter Vonnoh, Alphaeus P. Cole in 1979, and a model demonstrating Maynard's invention: a chair which rolls on tracks perpendicular to the easel to facilitate the artist's movement while painting.
ADDITION: Correspondence between Maynard and his father, Isaac N. Maynard, 1931-1933; letters to Maynard and others from his wife Lorraine, 1933; and a few letters to Richard and Lorraine Maynard from their twelve-year-old daughter, Sylvia, 1933 [All letters from Richard and Lorraine Maynard are carbon copies.] Also included are letters to the Richard and Lorraine Maynard from Bessie Potter Vonnoh, writings by Lorraine Maynard, undated, and photographs of Lorraine and Sylvia Maynard, and of Vonnoh, c. 1923.
The records of New York City's Maynard Walker Gallery measure 6.3 linear feet and date from 1923 to 1975. The collection comprises personal and professional correspondence; artist's files for Thomas Hart Benton, John Chumley, John Steuart Curry, Lily Cushing, Madeline Hewes, Walt Kuhn, Wayne Williams, Grant Wood, and others; exhibition and gallery files consisting of printed materials, exhibition scrapbooks, a file on Spanish painting, and files for the exhibition Other Worlds (1945); financial and sales records containing files for artist accounts, non-artist accounts, bills of sale, and inventory; and photographic materials for exhibitions, works of art, and the writer Henry James.
Correspondence is with buyers, sellers, artists, and business and personal contacts such as Burt Lancaster, Paul Mellon, and Nelson Rockefeller regarding exhibitions, loans, sales, artworks, and general business dealings.
The series contains contracts, correspondence, insurance and shipping records, photographs of artwork, printed material, inventories, scrapbooks, and price lists for Thomas Hart Benton, John Chumley, John Singleton Copley, John Steuart Curry, Lily Cushing, Madeline Hewes, Winslow Homer, Walt Kuhn, Wayne Williams, and Grant Wood. See Series 4 for additional material on artists.
Folder contains photocopies.
Files in the series consist of catalogs and announcements, mainly for the Maynard Walker Gallery; clippings; correspondence, an annotated exhibition catalog, announcements, checklists, and clippings relating to the 1945 exhibition Other Worlds organized by Maynard Walker for the American British Art Center in New Britain, C.T.; and a file regarding Spanish painting.
Folder contains duplicates of material found in the collection.
The series contains sales and financial records for artists such as Lewis Iselin, Jr., Lily Cushing, Van Day Truex, Willard Cummings, and a few others, as well as records for non-artists, bills of sale by buyer name, and inventories. Files in Series 2 may contain additional financial and sales records for artists.
The series contains photographs and negatives of a Kenneth Callahan exhibition in 1952 taken by Oliver Baker, works of art grouped by artist name, and photographic reproductions of Henry James and his signature.
Printed material regarding art in San Francisco, including: 2 exhibition catalogs, Temporary Catalog of the Department of Fine Arts, Panama-Pacific International Exposition, 1915; and Frontiers of American Art, 1939, an exhibition at the M.H. De Young Memorial Museum, of works done for the Federal Art Project; a Guide to the Halls and Galleries of the Memorial Museum Purchased with Surplus Proceeds of the California Midwinter International Exposition by the Executive Committee, 1895; and clippings on the Panama-Pacific International Exposition, 1915.
Scrapbook, catalogs, photographs, and clippings.
REEL 862: One scrapbook, 1898-1938, containing clippings, photographs, catalogs and announcements, printed material, and miscellany; and a catalog from the California Historical Society FRANCES JOHN MCCOMAS exhibition of 1965, written by Kent L. Seavey, the Assistant Curator.
REEL 3042: One letter, 1928, enclosing a certificate of birth; 5 photos including one of a landscape "On Sentinal Dame" taken by E. N. Sewell, ca. 1900's; 6 exhibition catalogs and announcements; notes; loose clippings and a scrapbook of clippings.
Exhibition catalog of retrospective exhibit at the Monterey Pensisula Museum of Art, braille transcription of the exhibition announcement, and clippings.
Photographs of Norman Bluhm, Robert Motherwell, Franz Kline, Willem De Kooning, Kenneth Noland, Hannah Wilke, Christo, and Jack and Sandra (Freckleton) Beal.
Biographical material (1928-1950), 6 letters (1953), 2 scrapbooks (1929-1964), printed material (1929-1964) and photographs concern the life and career of Henry Lee McFee.
Reel 3134: Photographs show McFee (1929) and 5 of his paintings. Printed material consists of 8 reproductions of his works and 4 clippings (1950-1964).
Unfilmed: Biographical material consists of 5 award and membership certificates (1928-1950). Letters consist of one Christmas card and 5 letters of condolence (1953). Printed material consists of clippings (1929-1950), reproductions of works of art, and a poster. Photographs show McFee, his studio, and his works.
Unfilmed: Two scrapbooks contain photographs of McFee and his works. One also includes photographs of gallery installations and printed reproductions of his works (1931-1950). The other, assembled by McFee's step-daughter, also contains clippings (1929-1964), 2 exhibition catalogs (undated and 1949), an advertisement and annotated galley proof for a book of reproductions of McFee's paintings (1950), 2 typescripts on painting by McFee, and photographs of colleagues including Charles Rosen, Eugene Speicher, and Will Henry Stevens.
A resume; letters to McGaughy from Grand Central Art Galleries, Thomas C. Reed, San Antonio Art League, Society of Animal Artists, and others; clippings and a magazine article; pages relating to McGaughy from the signed copy of the book The Texas Hill Country: Interpretations by Thirteen Artists, 1981; exhibition announcements, catalogs and invitations; magazine covers and clippings and cards illustrated by McGaughy; and 4 photographs of McGaughy.
Biographical information, correspondence, writings by and about McGarrell and his work, 71 photos of art work and 10 personal photos, clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and printed miscellany.
The papers of painter and sculptor Ed McGowin include professional correspondence (1977-98); project files relating to outdoor sculpture commissions (1980-93); 21 sketchbooks (n.d.) containing pen and pencil sketches and song lyrics; photographs (1962-75); and printed material (1969-96), including exhibition catalogs, art periodicals, and clippings. Commissions documented here include outdoor sculpture at the Univ. of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg (1982), and the Dallas Area Rapid Transit in Houston (1994). Correspondents include foundry staff in Thailand (1993-95) and the Saudi Arabian Bechtel Corp., which commissioned pewter miniatures for Saudi Prince Abdullah.
Also included is documentation of the art work of McGowin's wife, Claudia DeMonte.
The collection of artists' letters compiled by Mary and John McGuigan Jr. measure 0.6 linear feet and date from 1794-1938. The collection is comprised of a group of letters, writings, and signed documents to and from a variety of artists, art administrators, art critics, historians, and art-related organizations assembled from multiple sources. It also includes associated printed material with some documents and a few photographs, including carte de visites and cabinet cards.
Item descriptions included in the container listing were provided by Mary and John McGuigan and illuminate the wide range of artists and types of material represented in the collection. While some of the letters document routine transactions such as responses to requests for information, and transmittals of autographs, others document specific artist commissions and projects, exhibition and financial arrangements, business relationships, family events, and travels. The collection includes documentation of portrait painters, including Chester Harding and Rembrandt Peale; nineteenth century landscape artists and artists of the Hudson River School including Albert Bierstadt, George Henry Boughton, Samuel Colman, Jasper Francis Cropsey, and George Inness; sculptors including Daniel Chester French whose letters include sixty-three letters to Charles Dupuy, the caretaker of French's summer home in Massachusetts; publishers such as Mathew Carey, in letters from John Neagle; and the activities of arts institutions such as the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts.
In addition to those mentioned above, letters and signed documents are from Washington Allston, William Holbrook Beard, Eugene Benson, William Tilden Blodgett, Jr., James Renwick Brevoort, Frederic Edwin Church, James Claghorn, John Singleton Copley, Kenyon Cox, F.O.C. Darley, Joseph DeCamp, Frank Duveneck, John Mackie Falconer, Horatio Greenough, Childe Hassam, Ignaz Michael Marcel Gaugengigl, George Healy, George Hollingsworth, William Morris Hunt, Daniel Huntington, Anna Vaughn Hyatt Huntington, Henry Inman, Hugh Bolton Jones, Thomas Dow Jones, Louis Ashton Knight, Charles Robert Leslie, Will Low, Frederick William MacMonnies, Frank Blackwell Mayer, Samuel F. B. Morse, Erastus Dow Palmer, Rubens Peale, Elizabeth Robins Pennell, Tobias (Toby) Edward Rosenthal, John Singer Sargent, George Henry Smillie, Marie Spartali Stillman, William James Stillman, Henry Ossawa Tanner, Abbott Handerson Thayer, Charles Yardley Turner, Stephen Arnold Douglas Volk, William Walcutt, Henry Antonio Wenzler, Benjamin West, Stanford White, Worthington Whittredge, and others.
The collection also includes a friendship album belonging to William Tilden Blodgett, Jr., with poems, sketches, and botanical watercolors, eight photographs including carte de visites and cabinet cards with images of George Hollingsworth, Thomas Dow Jones, Louis Ashton Knight, Henry Antonio Wenzler, and William Walcutt, and two photographs of a model used by Francis Blackwell Mayer when painting The Burning of the Peggy Stewart.
Missing Title
Cabinet card photograph of the interior of Abbot's studio.
Washington Allston (1779-1843), "Monday, 15th" to unknown. Allston responds that it would be a pleasure to receive a group of people at this studio to see his latest work.
Missing Title
William Holbrook Beard, New York, 28 January 1862, to Tallmadge Ewers (1832-1902), Secretary of the Young Men's Association, Buffalo, regarding that he cannot take less money for his painting Bears on a Bender, but will reduce the price of Grimal Kin's Dream, both of which are featured in the Buffalo Y.M.A. exhibition that began on 24 December 1861, also mentions two pictures by Worthington Whittredge (1820-1910), and his preparations for a reception in the Studio Building.
William Holbrook Beard, New York, 13 March 1889, to Laura Maude Wachschlager. Wachschlager was a young autograph collector and asked Beard to write an introduction to her "illustrious list," but Beard humorously declined through a rather long and mellifluous letter.
Missing Title
Newburyport, Massachusetts, 27 July 1866, to A. D. Vorce, Hartford, Connecticut. Benson thanks Vorce (who ran an art supply and picture frame store) for his compliments regarding an article that Benson had written about Jean-Leon Gerome (1824-1904). In response to Vorse 's suggestion that Benson write a similar article on William-Adolphe Bouguereau (1825-1905), the painter-critic explains that, while Bouguereau is a great painter, he lacks salient traits, and offers nothing of interest to the artist-critic.
Missing Title
New York, 5 November 1888, to Hemy Whitney Cleveland (1836-1907, clergyman and author), Louisville, Kentucky. Bierstadt declines Cleveland 's request to exhibit pictures in Louisville. He cites the primary reason as the recent default of payment by some gentlemen of Louisville for pictures loaned to the Southern Exposition. This, in turn, had caused the collapse of the Art Union (the New York entity that organized the loan exhibition to the Southern Exposition), headed by Enoch Wood Perry (1831-1915). This catastrophe had severe pecuniary consequences for many lending artists, including Bierstadt, who reveals he lost "a thousand dollars out of pocket on the matter."
William Tilden Blodgett, Jr. (1856-1917), friendship album with poems, sketches, and botanical watercolors, 25 December 1869. Son of William Tilden Blodgett (1823-1875), the New York art collector who was instrumental in founding the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the album was a gift from his cousins Nina and Katy, with amateur sketches and watercolors by Warren Delano III (1852-1920), uncle of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, Coster Chadwick (1952-1914), T. Macomb, and Marie Richers.
Two loose watercolors of a Katydid, a type of grasshopper, and "Indian Moccasin" or Lady Slipper flower, by J. D. Forquet, "Drawn from Nature," in the vicinity of Fishkill, New York.
Missing Title
George Henry Boughton, Kensington, London, 12 November 1878, to the engraver Andrew Varick Stout Anthony (1835-1906), regarding an illustration for the 1879 edition of Longfellow's The Courtship of Miles Standish, which Anthony will engrave, and also mentions Boughton's new studio and the artists Rossetti and Holman Hunt.
George Henry Boughton, Maastricht, Holland, 11 October 1881, to the painter and sculptor John Severinus Conway (1852-1925), regarding a tour through Holland and American artists in London including J. A. M. Whistler (1834-1903), Anna Massey Lea Merritt (1844-1930), William Mark Fisher (1841-1923), and William John Hennessey (1839-1917). 
George Henry Boughton, 13 April 1885, to Laura Maude Wachschlager. Re: Boughton enclosed signatures from Robert Browning and Edwin Austin Abbey, "Mr. Abbey never signs his full name to me-only 'Ned," for her collection. George Henry Boughton, 13 April 1885, to Laura Maude Wachschlager. Re: Boughton enclosed signatures from Robert Browning and Edwin Austin Abbey, "Mr. Abbey never signs his full name to me-only 'Ned," for her collection.
Missing Title
Yonkers, New York, 29 March 1915, to the editor of the Art Annual. In response to the editor's query, Brevoort will need a few days to have a photograph made of himself to satisfy her request.
Missing Title
Joseph Lemuel Chester, prominent genealogist, Washington, DC, 15 May 1858, to Benson J. Lossing (1813-1891), eminent historian and art historian. Regarding Chester's efforts on behalf of house guest Rembrandt Peale (1778-1860) to sell Peale's portrait of Washington, all of which had been facilitated by Lossing.
Missing Title
Frederic Edwin Church, Hudson, 9 February 1892, to Charles Louis Seeger (1860-1943), publisher, exporter, father of poet Alan Seeger and grandfather of folk singer Pete Seeger. Regarding their forthcoming trip together to Mexico, Church's travel arrangements, and their rendezvous in New York City.
Missing Title
Joseph Foxcroft Cole, Paris, three letters (1872-1874) to Jeremiah Otis Wetherbee (1832-1901), Boston. Wetherbee was a prominent lumber merchant.
Missing Title
Samuel Colman, New York, 30 April 1893, to an unknown correspondent, regarding a request for a photograph of the artist, to which he answers that there has never been one on the market.
Samuel Colman, Greenwich, Connecticut, circa June 1902, to the auctioneer Edward W. Kearney (1852-1918), regarding letter of sympathy about the fatal illness of his wife, Anne Lawrence Dunham Colman (1832-1902), who later died on 28 July in Greenwich.
Samuel Colman, New York, 30 January 1913, to Dr. Isaac Leopold Rice (1850-1915), regarding a request for correspondence from previous presidents of the National Academy of Design, which he admits he has regretfully destroyed.
Missing Title
Includes a carte-de-visite portrait photograph and calling card.
Missing Title
John Singleton Copley, 29 December 1794, to the collector, engraver, and print-seller Sir John Thane (1748-1818), London, regarding written in the third person, Copley requests portraits of Sir Henry Slingsby, Sir Benjamin Rudyard, Sir Henry Deering, and Francis Rowse for his historical picture of Charles I Demanding in the House of Commons the Five Impeached Members, 1782-1795 (National Portrait Gallery, London).
Missing Title
Kenyon Cox undated draft fragment of a humorous speech regarding the building of the paintings collection at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York.
Missing Title
London, 2 January 1862, to Edward William Cooke (1811-80, English landscape and marine painter). Cropsey and his wife accept Cooke's invitation to visit the following Tuesday evening.
Felix Octavius Carr Darley, New York, 24 December 1864, to the publishers Messrs. Ticknor & Fields, Boston, regarding postponing his illustrations for The Vision of Sir Launfal by James Russell Lowell (1819-1891), in order to join the Army of the Potomac for the purpose of making studies for Civil War pictures.
Joseph DeCamp (1858-1923), Boston, 12 January [1911], to Louis Prang (1824-1909). Re: DeCamp has just returned from Philadelphia and requests Prang to send him a stone so that he may draw the commissioned portrait on it.
Joseph DeCamp, Boston, [25 February 1911], to Louis Prang. Re: DeCamp confirms to Prang that he himself made the drawing on the stone.
Otho Wiecker [manuscript dealer], Boston, 14 September 1931, to Daniel W. Patterson, New York. Re: Wiecker sends Patterson one of the two above mentioned DeCamp letters to Prang and suggests that Patterson buy the entire Prang archive he has for sale. 
Otho Wiecker, Boston 19 October 1931 to Daniel W. Patterson, New York. Re: Wiecker sends Patterson the second DeCamp letter to Prang and suggests that Patterson buy the entire Prang archive he has for sale.
Missing Title
Count Luigi Palma di Cesnola, Director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, 25 March 1885, on museum letterhead, to Hayden W. Wheeler (1827-1904), founder of a prestigious jewelry firm in Manhattan. Regarding an invitation to join the Museum board. Includes an engraved portrait of Cesnola.
Frank Duveneck (1848-1919), Boston, 7 May 1898, to Julia Graydon Sharpe (1858-1939). Re: Duveneck discusses summer teaching schedules with fellow artist Sharpe.
Missing Title
Gideon Fairman, Philadelphia, 4 October 1813, to Gorham A. Worth (1783-1856), Cashier of the Farmers and Mechanics Bank, Albany, regarding new bank note designs with small sketch from America's first prominent engraver.
Missing Title
New York, 4 May 1857, to Jasper Francis Cropsey (1823-1900), London. Lengthy letter in which Falconer hopes that Cropsey is enjoying England, but regrets that he and Peter Paul Duggan (d. 1861, portraitist and medalist) are both unwell. Informs Cropsey that James B. Windle, Falconer's employer and Cropsey's close friend, has just died. Discusses happenings in New York. Reports on the upcoming exhibition of the NAD, including Edwin White's (1817-77) picture of the First New-England Thanksgiving. Says White will sail for Havre soon; John Frederick Kensett (1816-72) leaves soon for the Upper Missouri; Frederic Edwin Church (1826-1900) and Louis Remy Mignot (1831-70) also leave on the new steamship Vanderbilt. Mentions Cropsey's dealings with English artists such as Myles Birket Foster (1825-99), troubles with John Gilbert (1817-97), and a letter of introduction for the engraver Henry Le Keux (1787- 1868). The Palmer Exhibition has closed. Mentions that Tompkins Harrison Matteson (1813-84) will attend the opening of the NAD exhibition and that some are disappointed with the works submitted by John Thomas Peele (1822-97), including his The Sound of the Shell and Music of the Reeds.
Missing Title
Kate Fields, journalist, prominent literary and arts figure, Washington, DC, 29 April 1892, to John Sartain (1808-1897). Regarding arrangements for Sartain to attend the Art Congress in Washington the following month. 
Missing Title
Daniel Chester French, New York, 22 December 1898, to James Large, Philadelphia, regarding a letter of introduction from French, who had been selected by the will of the late Richard Smith (1821-1894) to erect a statue of General George Gordon Meade (1815-1872) for the Smith Memorial Arch in Philadelphia, in order to meet with family members to gain background and images for his work. Envelope addressed to Mrs. John B. Large, Philadelphia and postmarked 11 January 1899. Also included is a letter of introduction from John B. Gest (1824-1907), President of The Fidelity Insurance Trust and Safe Deposit Company, Philadelphia, 22 December 1898, to James Large, on behalf of French.
Daniel Chester French, New York, 11 January 1899, to Sarah Wise Meade Large, Philadelphia, regarding a visit on Saturday, 14 January 1899, to Philadelphia to secure details for his statue of General George Gordon Meade (1815-1872) for the Smith Memorial Arch in Philadelphia; also hopes to take in the PAFA Exhibition.
Daniel Chester French, New York, 24 January 1899, to Sarah Wise Meade Large, regarding acknowledgement of receipt of letters and photographs of General Meade, as well as a print by Thomas Hicks, and informs he has begun to sculpt the statue in clay. Also included are two letters to Mrs. Large, one from her mother (undated), and the other from her son's teacher Robert Anderson of The Episcopal Academy, Lansdowne, Pennsylvania (1911).
Daniel Chester French, sixty-three typed letters signed on French's own imprinted stationery and two autograph letters signed. New York City, 12 February 1923- 28 March 1931. Written to Charles Dupuy, the caretaker of French's summer home in Massachusetts.
New York, 8 February 1909, to Henry Wolf (1852-1916, wood engraver, artist, illustrator), New York. French writes that he has given no photographs of the Melvin Memorial (1908, Sleepy Hollow Cemetery, Concord, Massachusetts) for reproduction to anyone except Monumental News, a technical magazine, and thanks Wolf for his appreciation of his work.
Glendale, Massachusetts, 22 September 1911, to Henry Wolf (1852-1916, wood engraver, artist, illustrator), New York. In response to Wolfs request to reproduce French's statue of Lincoln for Harper's Magazine, the sculptor regrets that he has promised it to Mr. Johnson of the Century Magazine, who saw it in his studio before it was finished. French suggests that Wolf instead reproduce his equestrian statue of General Draper, photographs of which he can show him once he returns to New York.
Ignaz Michael Marcel Gaugengigl (1853-1932), Boston, 22 February 1903 to Ezra U. Baker. Re: thanks Baker for his payment for his portrait, and will soon send the portrait of his daughter.
Missing Title
Edward Gay, Mt. Vernon, 24 April 1883, to John Elderkin (1841-1926), editor and author. Regarding illustrations for Bayard Taylor's Lars, a previous and forthcoming trip to Norway, and an outstanding commission for Elderkin.
Missing Title
Autograph letter to Karl Gerhardt, signed "Larkin G[oldsmith] Mead." Florence, Italy, 11 June 1883.
Typed letter to Karl Gerhardt, signed "Abram S. Hewitt." New York, 8 October 1888. On letterhead of Cooper, Hewitt & Co., to Karl Gerhardt, in care of S. L. Clemens, Hartford.
Autograph note to Mrs. Karl Gerhardt, signed "Mrs. Mackay." Paris, 14 January 1885.
Typed letter to William Wilson Corcoran, signed by "Franklin P. Gowen." Philadelphia, 29 January, 1885.
Autograph letter to Karl Gerhardt, signed by "Brander Matthews." New York, 4 January 1886.
Typed letter to Karl Gerhardt, signed by "[Senator] Wm. E. Chandler." Washington, DC, 25 June 1888. On United States Senate letterhead.
Autograph letter to Karl Gerhardt, signed by "[Senator] Jos. R. Hawley." Washington, DC, 10 July 1888. On Senate Chamber letterhead.
Autograph letter to Karl Gerhardt, signed by "J. R. Hawley." Washington, DC, 8 December 1891.
Autograph letter to Karl Gerhardt, signed by "Laurence Hutton." Princeton, New Jersey, 21 March 1899.
Autograph letter to Mrs. Karl Gerhardt, signed by "I. E. Mackay." No location or date given.
Autograph letter to W. S. Chapman, signed by "Karl Gerhardt." No location or date given.
Missing Title
Autograph letter signed "Horatio Greenough." Two pages (including integral address leaf). [Washington], not dated. Addressed to Benjamin B. French, Commissioner of Public Buildings in Washington, DC.
Missing Title
Chester Harding, Glasgow, Scotland, 21 December 1846, to his son Francis "Frank" Skinner Harding (b. 1843), Springfield, Massachusetts, regarding Harding instructs his youngest son to find Glasgow on the map, pens a sketch of a young boy, and inquires if he has been sledding and obeying his aunts.
[Chester Harding] Margaret Eliot Harding White (1823-1903), Keene, New Hampshire, to her future sister-in-law Julia Norton Delano, 11 March 1863, regarding White, who edited her father's memoirs, writes to her future sister-in-law, about to Mary Francis "Frank" Skinner Harding, to congratulate her and learn more about her.
Chester Harding, Springfield, Massachusetts, 8 September 1863, to his future daughter-in-law Julia Norton Delano, regarding welcoming her to the family.
[Chester Harding] Mary Ophelia Harding Krum (1818-1892), Chateaugay Lake, New York, 19 July 1864, to her future sister-in-law Julia Norton Delano, regarding summer house with her family and father, Chester Harding, and catching up.
[Chester Harding] Mary Ophelia Harding Krum (1818-1892), Springfield, Massachusetts, 11 September 1864, to her future sister-in-law Julia Norton Delano, regarding her travels and her return to St. Louis with her father, Chester Harding, as well as warning that her brother Frank's income, whom she raised, will barely support them after their wedding. 
Chester Harding, Springfield, Massachusetts, 22 December 1864, to his daughter-in-law Julia Norton Delano Harding, Detroit, regarding his wedding gift of money, as well as Frank's looking into the disposal of his property in Detroit.
Chester Harding, Springfield, Massachusetts, 15 April 1865, to his daughter-in-law Julia Norton Delano Harding, Detroit, regarding a blunder that cost Frank his job, the poor prospects for Frank's starting a new business in Detroit, and the assassination of Abraham Lincoln.
Chester Harding, St. Louis, 11 October [1865], to his daughter-in-law Julia Norton Delano Harding, Detroit, regarding the hot weather in St. Louis, his intention to stay until Christmas, and his desire to paint several portraits to keep busy.
Chester Harding, manuscript fragment, comprising parts No. 2, 3 and 4 of his memoir, A Sketch of Chester Harding, Artist, Drawn by His Own Hand, later edited by his daughter Margaret Eliot Harding White (1823-1903), and published in Cambridge, Massachusetts, by John Wilson in 1866. This is the only known portion of this manuscript.
Missing Title
Childe Hassam, New York, 24 March 1904, to the novelist and playwright Louis Evan Shipman (1869-1933), Cornish, New Hampshire, regarding payment for a painting and an invitation to visit. Includes envelope.
Missing Title
Paris, 18 January 1889, to Miss Wright. Healy writes either to a close acquaintance or patron after receiving some family photographs. Describes works in his studio: full-length portraits of Archbishop Rearden of San Francisco and General Winslow, and a half-length portrait of Monsieur Barbedienne. For the Paris Salon he intends to send full-length portraits of Cardinal Archbishop James Gibbons of Baltimore and Abraham Dreyfus. For the Universal Exposition at Paris he intends to send a half-length portrait of the Earl of Lytton, former English Ambassador to France, and a full-length painting of a fourteen-year-old girl playing the violin.
George Hollingsworth (1813-1882), carte de visite of the Massachusetts painter.
Missing Title
Boston, 22 November 1877, to John Ferguson Weir, New Haven."My time is already more than taken up in trying to learn how to paint and as I can get no information on the subject from lectures. I do not think I could assist others by lecturing. The world is full of people who lecture on art and I will not interfere with them."
Anna Vaughn Hyatt Huntington (1876-1973) candid oval photographic portrait, circa 1933. Christmas gift from Harriet Randolph Hyatt (1868-1960) [Mrs. Alfred G. Mayor], sister of Anna Hyatt Huntington, noted painter, and former pupil of Dennis Miller Bunker, 12 December 1933, to Anna Bemis Stearns (1867-1949). Mrs. Mayor also included a sketchbook portrait of Anna Bemis signed "H. R. H." [Harriet Randolph Hyatt], and a note that says "I thought you might like to own this sketch of other days I found in an old sketchbook. I hear from Anna [Huntington] that she…"
Missing Title
New York, 11 April 1862, to Alexander Hay Ritchie (1822-95, engraver and genre and figure painter), New York. Huntington writes to A. W. [sic] Ritchie, 422 Broadway, that he is suffering from the flu and is unavailable for Ritchie to pick up the photograph of his (Huntington's) uncle that Ritchie will engrave; but he will arrange the matter later, including the size of the plate, when he is better. "I think I shall keep a safe distance from the Exhib. on Varnishing Day."
Daniel Huntington (1816-1906), New York, "Wednesday 20th," to Richard William Hubbard (1816-1888). "The Sketch Club are to meet with me on Friday Evening. I shall be happy if you can be with us."
Missing Title
Henry Inman, New York, 30 January 1834, to Prosper Montgomery Wetmore (1798-1876), Albany, President of the American Art Union. Regarding his quest to secure the commission to paint one of the panels for the Capitol Rotunda in Washington, DC, as well as a favorable mention of his talent by John Quincy Adams in the New York Mirror. Includes an engraved portrait of Inman.
George Inness (1825-1894), Milton, New Jersey, 25 May 1884, to Laura Maude Wachschlager. Re: Waschlager was a young autograph collector.
George Inness, corrected proof, approved and signed for his entry in Men of the Time: A Dictionary of Contemporaries, containing Biographical Notices of Eminent Characters of Both Sexes, 1887, published by George Routledge, London, 1887.
Missing Title
New York, 26 March 1888, to George Frederick Munn (1851-1907, naturalist painter). Jones responds to Munn's request for photographs of pond lily leaves, mentions Jones's picture owned by Mr. Halstead, and apprises Munn of the current addresses of the painters Edwin Howland Blashfield (1849-1936), Thomas Hovenden (1840-95), and William Lamb Picknell (1853-97).
Thomas Dow Jones (1811-1881), sculptor, cabinet card portrait of the artist, inscribed by him "T. D. Jones/Sculptor."
Missing Title
John Frederick Kensett, Monday, 20 December [ca. 1869], to Richard William Hubbard (1816-18), artist.
New York, 1 October 1865, to William A. Baker, Auburn, New York. Kensett responds to Baker's request for an autograph and informs him he has just returned to the city.
Louis Ashton Knight (1873-1938), press photograph by Bonney, "'Pont Louis Ashton Knight'…Bridge named after well-known American painter." Shows Knight painting on the bridge.
Missing Title
New York, The Institution for the Savings of Merchants' Clerks, bank check, 22 April 1872, for $35, payable to Mrs. Dillor or Bearer.
Charles Robert Leslie (1794-1859), [London, 21 April 1832], to Abraham Cooper (1787-1868), English painter. Re: "I shall feel obliged if you will let me know when Mr. Marshall's creditors meet and whether or not you intend to be present."
Missing Title
Benson J. Lossing, eminent historian and art historian, Dover Plains, New York, 2 December 1873, to Morven M. Jones (1815-1886), Utica, New York, attorney, autograph collector, and victim of one of the most scandalous political trials of the Civil War. Regarding the publication of his historical documents.
Missing Title
Giverny, France, 25 September 1895, to Mrs. S. C. Blodget, East Greenwich, Rhode Island. Writing from the prominent artists' colony and home to Monet, Low responds to Mrs. Blodget that he does not possess any photographs of his works but that copies can be procured by contacting William Kurtz, 6 E. 23rd St., New York.
Giverny, France, 25 September 1895, to William Kurtz (1833-1904, artist and photographer), New York. Low authorizes Kurtz to make copies of photographs of any of his paintings for Mrs. S. C. Blodget, of East Greenwich, Rhode Island, with the exception of the Diploma Design for the Columbian Exposition. Included with this letter are two carte-de-visite photographs of unidentified women by W. Kurtz, presumably Mrs. Blodget and her daughter.
Frederick William MacMonnies (1863-1937), Giverny, France, 28 March 1907, to Miss Jones. Re: some photographs to be sent.
Francis Blackwell Mayer (1827-1899), two cabinet cards, "John E. McCusker posing as Col. Steward for the Artist Frank Mayer, in his Picture of the Burning of the Peggy Stewart-now at the State House, Annapolis, Maryland." Photographic studies for Mayer's The Burning of the Peggy Stewart during the Annapolis Tea Party in 1774 (1886), Maryland State House.
Missing Title
[Clark Mills] Bank Check for $600 from the National Lincoln Monument Association, Washington, DC, 30 March 1870, paid to "self" and signed by sculptor Clark Mills (1810-1883). 
Missing Title
Autograph letter signed "Sam'l F. B. Morse." Two pages. New York, 30 March 1826. Addressed to Charles R. Leslie, Esq., in London. 
Missing Title
Marie Shields Myer, 1 June 1912. Invitation from the New York School of Applied Design for Women for an exhibition of Myer's works on view from June through August 1912.
Missing Title
Thomas Nast, Catskill, 29 July 1866, to the Albany architect John B. Halcott (1846-1895), regarding the procurement of current carte de visites of the publisher Thurlow Weed (1797-1892) and former New York Governor Horatio Seymour (1810-1886) for illustrations.
Missing Title
John Neagle, ca. 1825-1827, to the theater manager Francis Courtney Wemyss (1797-1859), Philadelphia, regarding Neagle's busy schedule, his portrait in progress of the actor William Macready (PAFA), that years' exhibition at the PAFA, his portrait of the actor Junius Brutus Booth (Museum of the City of New York), and that he cannot undertake Wemyss's portrait anywhere but in his own studio.
John Neagle, 25 September 1826, to the publisher Mathew Carey (1760-1839), Philadelphia, regarding compiling a list of names and addresses which includes the painter Thomas Sully, the engravers Gideon Fairman, Peter Maverick, James B. Longacre, and Hugh Bridport.
John Neagle, 24 January 1827, to the publisher Mathew Carey (1760-1839), Philadelphia, regarding the amicable settlement of a dispute through arbitration, and mentions Joseph Hopkinson (1770-1842), President of the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, and the painter Thomas Sully.
John Neagle, 26 March 1827, to the publisher Mathew Carey (1760-1839), Philadelphia, regarding Neagle requests the prominent publisher, who has made a solicitation to the artist, what the cost of a church pew will be.
John Neagle, 9 June 1830, to the publisher Mathew Carey (1760-1839), Philadelphia, regarding Carey's, a prominent Irish Catholic, "Society for bettering the condition of the Roman Catholics" and Neagle's desire to become a member.
John Neagle, 22 July 1843, to Joseph H. Hedges, Philadelphia, regarding acquiring an autograph of Washington Allston, to which Neagle directs him to either of the painters Thomas Sully or Samuel Finley Breese Morse.
Missing Title
Letter from J[ames] C[raig] Nicoll to "Mr. Skinner," 1893 May 29. 
Missing Title
Wallace Nutting clipped letter fragment, June 1938.
Missing Title
Erastus Dow Palmer, Albany, 18 December 1893, to the sculptor Jonathan Scott Hartley (1845-1912), New York, regarding his affection for his former pupil, the present of a carte de visite of the White Captive, mentions Daniel Chester French (1850-1931), John Quincy Adams Ward (1830-1910), Augustus Saint-Gaudens (1848-1907), and George Inness (1825-14). Includes photograph of the White Captive.
Rembrandt Peale (1778-1860), Philadelphia, 3 December 1852, to Mr. Drake. Re: responds that he would be delighted to provide three of his portraits of Washington to Mr. Drake's directors, as he already has two commenced. He recently sold one to "an English Gentleman, Mr. Tarret of Wolverhampton."
Missing Title
Autograph letter to Honorable M. Dikerson, Secretary of the Navy, signed "Rubens Peale." New York, 6 June 1837. 
Elizabeth Robins Pennell (1855-1936), Philadelphia, 22 December 1920, to Violet Oakley (1874-1961). Re: Pennell accepts Oakley's invitation for her and her husband Joseph Pennell (1957-1926) to spend Christmas Eve together.
Missing Title
James L. Claghorne (1817-84), president of PAFA, and John Sartain (1808-97), artist and secretary of PAFA, jointly issue and sign a check for payment of $500 to the Philadelphia firm of Frank Furness and George Hewitt, for architectural designs of their landmark building for the PAFA, considered Frank Furness's masterpiece, completed in 1876.
Missing Title
Munich, 11 March 1881, to Francis Seligsberg. Four-page letter written in German with a watercolor sketch of two female artists holding portfolios, one calm and tidy, the other quite disheveled.
John Singer Sargent (1856-1925, London, undated, to "My dear Trower." Re: "I have always thought, just after leaving you, of my [illeg] debt, the East End spree." Presumably to either Henry Seymour Trower or his wife Juliet.
Missing Title
Season ticket to an Exhibition of Works by the Late John Sartain at the Art Club of Philadelphia, 1897. Signed with the compliments of "Emily Sartain."
Autograph letter to Miss Levy, signed "Emily Sartain." Philadelphia, 28 May 1903. Letterhead: Philadelphia School of Design for Women/ Broad & Masters Streets/ Miss Emily Sartain, Principal.
Missing Title
Autograph letter to Fred. M. Hopkins, signed "John Sartain." Philadelphia, 31 August 1897. Includes sketch for title page of Sartain's book Reminiscences of a Very Old Man.
Missing Title
Autograph note signed "William Sartain." New York, 7 January 1914.
New York, 4 October 1883 to S. Louise Phelps (1843/4-after 1920, painter and teacher born Ohio), East Orange, New Jersey. Sartain informs Phelps when his classes will begin, the costs associated, and mentions that his student Miss Cardozo will arrive soon. 
New York, 3 May 1884 to S. Louise Phelps, East Orange, New Jersey. Sartain quotes Lord Byron, from a letter written in Venice, 14 April 1817.
New York, 23 February 1885 to S. Louise Phelps, East Orange, New Jersey. Sartain wishes Phelps to submit his name for non-resident membership in the Orange Art Association; her friend Mrs. Narland [?] is now working in Sartain's studio and wishes to be remembered.
New York, 26 March 1885 to S. Louise Phelps, East Orange, New Jersey. Sartain regrets that he cannot instruct her class this summer but suggests she approach Hugh Bolton Jones (1848-1927) or his brother Francis Coates Jones (1857-1932).
New York, undated photograph of a female portrait inscribed to S. Louise Phelps: "with Christian regards of I William Sartain." [This is possibly a portrait of Phelps.]
Missing Title
Undated letter envelope from Robert Sliger addressed to himself.
George Henry Smillie (1840-1921), Marblehead Neck, Massachusetts, 24 September 1882, to Hattie Merrifield. With a calling card signed "James D. Smillie," (James David Smillie 1833-1909). Re: George H. Smillie informs Hattie Merrifield that he will return to New York the first week of October, and that he takes pupils at $30 a month, or has a class on Thursdays which will begin in the second week of October, whichever she prefers.
Missing Title
St. Helen's Cottage, Ventnor, Isle of Wight, England, July? 1875, to Katherine Hillard (1839-1915). Stillman apologizes that she cannot see Hillard because her husband, William James Stillman (1828-1901), wishes to go immediately to Dalmatia and she must close up their house on the Isle of Wight.
Amerstone, England, 15 June 1875, to Miss Katherine Hillard. Stillman invites Hillard to visit them at their cottage on the Isle of Wight, says the couple are happy despite the loss of their son, John Ruskin Stillman (1862-75), known as "Russie."
Missing Title
23 September 1839, to Mr. Herring, New York. Sully informs Herring that the Portrait of Col. Abert (John James Abert 1788- 1863) has been shipped to Washington, and that the bill of lading is in possession of John Trumbull (1756-1843). Sully requests that the Abert portrait be exhibited in Washington prior to being exhibited at the New York Institution. Sully is also waiting on a frame before forwarding Herring his picture of Musidora.
Missing Title
Henry Ossawa Tanner, Martigues, France, 11 Febraury 1906, to Mr. Morris.
Missing Title
Dictated letter (handwritten) to Sadakichi Hartmann, signed in another hand "A. H.Thayer." Monadnock, New Hampshire, 23 April [no year given].
Autograph letter to Clara A. May, signed "Abbott H. Thayer." Annotated at top in another hand "21 April 1894."
Autograph letter to Mr. Koehler, signed "Abbott H. Thayer." Cornwall-on-Hudson, 12 May 1885.
Autograph letter to Mr. Koehler, signed "Abbott H. Thayer." Cornwall-on-Hudson, 31 October 1883.
Autograph postcard to Mr. Koehler, signed "A. H. Thayer." Cornwall-on-Hudson, 19 May 1885 [postmark]. Postcard bears letterhead of Magazine of Art-Cassell & Company, Limited.
Autograph postcard to Mr. Koehler, signed "A. H. T." Postmarked 1886.
Missing Title
Henry T. Tuckerman, art critic, New York, 6 November 1854, to Benson J. Lossing (1813-1891), historian and art historian. Regarding Tuckerman's desire to obtain a copy of Lossing's profusely illustrated Pictorial Field Book of the Revolution (1851) and inquiring about his progress on Pictorial Field Book of the War of 1812 (1862).
Henry T. Tuckerman, New York, 4 June 1859, to Benson J. Lossing (1813-1891). Regarding Tuckerman's refusal of an editorship, Lossing's Field Book, and a dispute with Mr. Putnam over the authorship of a Peale painting.
Charles Yardley Turner (1850-1919), New York, 6 April 1885, to Laura Maude Wachschlager. Re: Wachschlager was a young autograph collector and Turner writes: "I will be pleased to see you at my studio some Saturday afternoon between 2 and 5 P. M."
Missing Title
Edward Virginius Valentine, Richmond, 12 March 1877, to Dr. James M. Minor, New York, regarding Minor's returning his bust of General Robert E. Lee to him in Richmond.
Stephen Arnold Douglas Volk (1881-1915), New York, 18 January 1881, to Marion Larrabee, Chicago.
Volk, New York 8 May 1911, to Marion Volk, Center Lovell, Maine.
Volk, New York, 26 October 1911, to Marion Volk, Center Lovell, Maine.
Volk, New York, 20 May 1915, to Marion Volk, Center Lovell, Maine.
William Walcutt (1819-1882) carte de visite by Augustus Morand, Brooklyn, of the Ohio born painter and sculptor.
Julian Alden Weir (1852-1919), Branchville, Connecticut, 26 July 1891, to "Dear Max," [Paris, France]. Re: Weir sends eight etchings including the Portrait of Dr. Weir, "which is $35, already having sold some." "I hope you have made many finds in the shape of fine etchings (& not girls!). I have put etching aside for the present & have some twenty canvases under way."
Wenzler (b. Denmark-d. 27 May 1871, Newport, RI) carte de visite by Maurice Stadtfeld, photographer, 711 Broadway, New York.
Missing Title
London, 27 February 1816, to Richard James Laurence. West requests the loan of two pictures for an apparent exhibition of "all the pictures painted by me within the last fifty years." The first, Faith and Hope (from Spenser's "Poems of the Fairy Queen"), depicts Laurence's mother and sister, and the second, Una and the Lion, is a portrait of Laurence's wife, nee Miss Hall (Wadsworth Athenaeum, Hartford).
Missing Title
Typed letter signed "White" on the imprinted stationery of McKim, Mead & White. Two separate pages, four total. New York, 16 November 1895. To Frederick William MacMonnies. 
Typed letter signed "Stanford White" with holograph additions and three-line holograph postscript, on the imprinted stationery of McKim, Mead & White. Two separate pages, four total. New York, 19 January 1892. To Frederick William MacMonnies. 
New York, 4 February 1895, to Frederick W. MacMonnies (1863-1937, sculptor). On McKim, Mead & White letterhead, White informs MacMonnies that Daniel Chester French (1850-1931) has just dropped out of a commission, and White recommends that MacMonnies accept the order for five large caryatides for the American Surety Building, on Broadway and Pine, which White confides would be "a very good potboiler. 
"New York, 9 December 1895, to Frederick W. MacMonnies. Re: White wishes MacMonnies to set his price for the Washington Arch groups.
Missing Title
Worthington Whittredge, New York, 2 February 1879, to Andrew Varick Stout Anthony (1835-1906), American wood engraver.
New York, 28 December 1868, to Samuel A. Coale Jr., St. Louis.Whittredge writes to Coale, a St. Louis merchant and arts patron, apologizing that the little picture Coale recently purchased, a scene in the Lebanon Valley, New York, was not ready to be shipped as a Christmas present to this wife, due to damage sustained to the frame, but it will arrive before New Year's day. He explains that since the price charged was well below cost, Coale will have to pay for the expense of the frame, as well as the boxing and shipping. The picture is a little dry in places, so Whittredge advises Coale to take it out of its frame and spread boiled linseed oil evenly over the surface, in preference to varnish, as the work is displayed under glass.
Missing Title
One carte-de-visite portrait.
Personal and research correspondence, artwork; writings; and photographs.
Correspondence consists of eight letters from McIntyre's uncle, William Macbeth, regarding business at the Macbeth Gallery, 1909; letters of condolence upon the death of Robert Macbeth, 1940; a letter to McIntyre from Francis Peabody Colburn enclosing a photograph of himself; letters from Jon Corbino and from William James, both with photographic portraits; a letter to Benhaim Newhouse from Albert Rosenthal about Henry Inman; research correspondence for MARTIN JOHNSON HEADE (1949), 1944-1950; correspondence with McIntyre's mother, wife and relatives, 1903-1930; and correspondence with E.P. Richardson concerning various donations made to the Archives of American Art. Art work includes 3 sketchbooks, ca. 1946-1957, containing pencil sketches of Vermont and other locales, and a watercolor sketch. Photographs include snapshots of McIntyre with family and friends, one photograph each of Felicia Meyer Marsh, (wife of Reginald Marsh), Maud Morgan, and Morgan's husband Patrick Morgan, all circa 1940. Writings include typescripts of articles; lectures and notes; and material on portraits by Gilbert Stuart.
One letter to "Mr. Wilson," thanking him for his note.
A handwritten letter from Adja Yunkers to William McNaught of the Archives of American Art, in which Yunkers describes his encounters with Mark Rothko shortly before Rothko's suicide.
A sketchbook of 34 sketches in pencil and ink of sailboats, sailing ships and sailors. Only one sketch is dated: August 31, 1929 and it depicts a sailboat race. It was attributed to McNulty by the Archives of American Art, however other names are inscribed on the covers of the book, along with that of "McNulty 1929." These include "Chas Pearce," "Russell H. Tarr, 72 Barrow, Walker 3796," and "Mr. D.F. Harris & Co., Wharf St, ? Sea Co."
A brief biography; articles and statements by Meadmore, 1968 and undated; price lists, 1980; printed material, 1967-1980, including exhibition catalogs, clippings, reviews, and Meadmore's book HOW TO MAKE FURNITURE WITHOUT TOOLS (1975).
Photographs of art work, brochures, opera programs, clippings, and exhibition announcements.
Castellon comments on an exhibition of his work, discusses the lithographs he recently completed in Paris, and his plans to purchase a house.
Photographs, correspondence, sales and exhibition files, awards and certificates, and a diary.
REELS 1180-1182: Correspondence; awards and certificates; and ten pages of diary, February and March 1908. Diary entries concern Melchers's visit at the White House while President Theodore Roosevelt was sitting for a portrait by Melchers. The correspondence includes general and business correspondence, and an extensive personal correspondence with his wife.
REEL 1407: Family correspondence, 1901-1916, general correspondence, 1892-1932, and correspondence of his widow and brother-in-law; sales and exhibition files, 1915-1947, which contain lists of paintings, correspondence, and printed matter.
REEL 1427: Photographs of Melchers, Melchers' studios, models, and friends, among them George Hitchcock, and photographs of Melchers' paintings.
A limited edition of 30 architectural sketches by Mendelsohn, 1955.
Correspondence between Mendelson and sculptor Saul Baizerman, 1948-1952, and few letters from others in Baizerman's circle, 1946-1957. Also included are two photographs of Saul Baizerman and one of his wife, painter Eugenie Baizerman (1899-1949). The correspondence stems largely from Saul Baizerman's move from New York to Arizona in late 1948 (in the hope that the climate might relieve Eugenie Bazerman's severe asthma attacks; they then moved in July 1949 to Los Angeles, where Saul taught at the University of California in Los Angeles). Along with over 60 letters from Baizerman, are Mendelson's letters about movies, books, and exhibitions. [Baizerman kept this side of the correspondence and later returned the letters to Mendelson.] Baizerman's letters show his conflicts with his fatally ill wife and the diminution of his creative strength. Mentioned in the correspondence are Louise Mendelson, Mr. Mendelson's first wife, Sylvia Norman, and the poet, May Swenson, who took classes from Baizerman.
Clippings and exhibition announcements from Long's galleries, including Davis & Long Company, and Meredith Long Contemporary in New York City, and Meredith Long & Company, Houston.
23 letters between Metcalf and Charles L. Freer, 1917-1919, discussing prospective purchases of Metcalf's work for the Freer Collection, and 2 personal letters to Florence Griswold, 1905-06. Also included are a diary for 1876, recording the progress of some of his paintings, detailing sketching trips around Boston and Vermont, and noting daily expenses; sketchbooks, 1885, 1905, 1913-14; photographs of his murals and paintings; snapshots of his friends and himself; and a scrapbook of clippings, 1905-1925.
28 letters (one written on an exhibition announcement) and 5 postcards to Meyers from Wildenhain, sent from Wildenhain's home in Pittsford, N.Y. and while traveling in Florida, Mexico, and Europe. The letters describe his travels and daily activities.
Also included are an exhibition catalogue dated 1977/1978 and a brief article with photographs of Wildenhain and his mural "Allegory of a Landscape."
An interview of William Meyerowitz and Theresa Bernstein conducted in 1978 by David Masters for the Sawyer Free Library, Gloucester, Massachusetts. Meyerowitz speaks of his background in Russia; his early interest in art; his Jewish identity and its effect on his work; immigrating to the United States and meeting Bernstein; the economics of painting; his interest in music; his work in printmaking. Bernstein speaks of the Gloucester environment and its effect on her work.
Thirty-five letters (1975-1979), miscellaneous notes, 9 edited typescripts, clippings (1974-1976), and miscellaneous photographs, including one of Sylvia Wilkinson Murphy (1976-1977) concern the production of the MICHIGAN ART JOURNAL. Twelve copies of 4 issues of the MICHIGAN ART JOURNAL include annotations and are accompanied by the camera-ready art and photographs used in their production (1976-1977). Photographs of artists include Mark Di Suvero, Jim Pallas, and Ted Ramsay.
The papers of New York based photographer Duane Michals date from circa 1940-2019 and measure 7.5 linear feet. This small collection includes Michals' correspondence from the 1970s, printed material, photographs of Michals, as well as photographic prints he has taken for commercial and artistic projects. There is a 6.3 linear foot unprocessed addition to this collection donated 2019 and 2020 that includes primarily photographs taken by Michals of actors, writers, friends, family and classmates; photo books, postcards, assemblages, photo-sequences by Michals; an Yves St. Laurent portfolio; and photographs of Michals. Additional material includes biographical information, correspondence, printed material and a catalog on CD.
Correspondence dates from 1967-2010 is both personal and professional. The bulk consists of letters to Michals from 1972-1977, although a few drafts of outgoing letters are also found here. Notable correspondents include photographers Berenice Abbott, Ralph Gibson, Les Krims, Gerard Malanga, Eve Sonneman, and Arthur Tress. Professional correspondence is with magazines, museums, and galleries, and pertains to work for hire, publication permissions, exhibitions, and requests for appearances. A draft of Michals' text "Real Dreams" was sent to a friend for review, and is filed with the 1976 correspondence.
Printed material dates from circa 1970-2015 and documents Michals' career through announcements, clippings, exhibition catalogs, and press releases. A book featuring Michals, and a few other printed items including brochures, a program, and an essay about Michals' work are also found here.
Photographs date from circa 1960-2015 and are both of and by Michals. The first folder here includes snapshots of Michals at exhibitions and with family and friends. The remainder of the folders contain Michals' working prints from photographic series for various commercial and artistic projects.
The 6.3 linear foot unprocessed addition to this collection donated 2019 and 2020 includes primarily photographs taken by Michals of actors, writers, friends, family and classmates; photo books, postcards, assemblages, photo-sequences by Michals; an Yves St. Laurent portfolio; and photographs of Michals. Additional material includes biographical information, correspondence, printed material and a catalog on CD.
Personal and business correspondence, 1958-1972; a curriclum vitae and other biographical data; commission files containing correspondence, photos, and blueprints; files on competitions, speaking engagements, teaching assignments, and seminars; sketches, drawings, and illustrations for publications; photographs; exhibition catalogs and announcements; clippings; and articles. Among the correspondents are sculptor Jan Peter Sterne, architect Minoru Yamasaki, weavers Lee Naiman, Marie Mouliniere and Claire Rado, the Little Gallery (Birmingham, Mich.), Lee Nordness Galleries, Bertha Schaefer Gallery, and the Ann Jacobs Gallery.
The scattered papers of painter Vera Michels date from circa 1920 to 1976 and measure 0.2 linear feet. Found are three sketches by Michels, three notebooks kept by Michels during George Otis's landscape painting class, and photographs of works of art by Michels.
Artworks consist of a ink sketch of a woman, a pencil sketch of a monkey, and an oil sketch of a cat. Also found are two photocopies of woodcuts by George Otis. Three notebooks kept from 1935 to 1938 are from Michels's class with George Otis on landscape painting and contain handwritten notes and pencil sketches. Photographs are of works of art.
Emil Milan Research Project records measure 0.7 linear feet and date from circa 1940-2010. Included is biographical material, correspondence, press clippings documenting landmark moments in Milan's career (a notable institutional moment involves the Smithsonian's Renwick Gallery), photographs from Milan's time serving in World War II, rare catalogs and exhibition announcements, documentation related to his long teaching career at Peters Valley School of Craft in New Jersey, and interviews with associates of Milan. Also included is a small group of particle board templates for Milan's hallmark wood design shapes, salvaged from the floor of his studio.
Printed material, correspondence, writings, business records, subject files, photographs, a scrapbook, and audio tapes concerning government and the arts, art patronage, and Millsaps' career as a dealer and artist.
Included are speeches, exhibition catalogs and other printed materials; addresses, both personal and business; letters, undated and 1938-1982 from Millsaps' career in the army, as a young painter in New York, and regarding his efforts as a lobbyist to secure federal funding for artists through the 1960's and 1970's; invitations and announcements; notes and writings; business records; and subject files evolved from his activities as President of the WASHINGTON INTERNATIONAL ARTS LETTER and his work with the National Endowment for the Arts and the National Council of the Arts.
File subjects include: Artists Equity Association, Business Committee of the Arts, Community Arts Council, National Endowment for the Arts, National Council of the Arts, Nuki Gallery, Old Market Gallery Show, the Washington International Arts Letter, and others. Also includes: clippings; photographs of Millsaps, his friends, art shows, and works of art by Millsaps and others; a scrapbook of exhibition announcements, clippings, and photographs, 1961; 2 cassette tapes: one of the Artist Equity conference on American Artists, Jan. 28, 1971 and the other of Nancy Hanks at the Octagen House, Jan. 12, 1971; and one reel-to-reel tape.
Letters received by Olga Milles, primarily from her family, the Granners, in Graz, Steiermark, Austria (1933-1951). Other correspondents include Kurt Messner (from prisoner of war camp), his father Adolf Messner (1944-1946), Carl Milles (1944-1951), his sister Ruth Milles (1940), and Signe Rutenskold (1944-1946). Three letters were written to Carl by Olga (1939). Other materials consist of a one-page essay on "Youth" by Frank Crane and 3 photographs, of Benito Mussolini (1936), relatives (1950), and a work of art.
Correspondence, writings, photographs, financial material, loan agreements, and printed material regarding Everett L. Millard's research on artists John Henri Isaac Browere and his son Albertus Del Orient Browere. The collection mostly contains material created by Millard but also includes a letter from A.D.O. Browere as well as his sales receipts. Also included is a drawing by Angelo Buonarrotti Browere, the younger brother of A.D.O. Browere, aged 9 years for his dear grandmother Anna C. Harrington, and presented to his beloved aunt Maria Davis, New York 10 September 1833.
This small collection of Robert Mills family letters date from 1813 to 1847 and measure 0.2 linear feet. Found here are 38 letters between architect Robert Mills and his wife Eliza, the majority of which were written between 1813 and 1819, and generally discuss family news and health, his travels, finances, and their affection for each other. Also found are a fragment of a letter to Mills from his sister, Sarah, a letter to Mills from his mother-in-law, Ann Smith, and nine letters to Mills from business acquaintances, including architect John Skirving and engineer Louis Wernwag, regarding building projects. The collection also includes six letters to Mills' daughter Anna from her mother, Eliza, and cousins.
Found here are 38 letters between architect Robert Mills and his wife Eliza, the majority of which were written between 1813 and 1819, while Mills was working on projects in Baltimore and Richmond. These letters generally discuss family news and health, his travels, finances, and their affection for each other. Also found are a fragment of a letter to Mills from his sister, Sarah, a letter to Mills from his mother-in-law, Ann Smith, and nine letters to Mills from business acquaintances. Letters are from architect John Skirving and engineer Louis Wernwag and others. Wernwag's letter to Mills requests his help in finding work. Also of note is a letter from William Steuart regarding the commission of Steuart to do the marble work for the Washington Monument in Baltimore. The collection also includes six letters to Mills' daughter Anna from her mother, Eliza, and cousins.
(Letters are from Mr. Butcher, Crocker Bros. & Co., Mitchell Hinmary?, Edward Stabler, William Steuart, and Louis Wernwag)
Biographical data sheets; 10 letters; writings by Milliken, including a copy of "Photography as Art", undated, "Philosophy of Art", 1964, "A Personal Vison", 1965, and a set of journal pages, containing Milliken's ideas for paintings and the philosophy behind them; printed material, including Milliken's annual reports as a member of the University of Texas faculty, exhibition catalogs and various publications containing references to Milliken; and photographs of Milliken and his work. Also included are two scrapbooks, undated and 1961-1982, containing: a resume; letters, 1963-1981; lists of works; a certificate of appreciation, 1977; printed material; and photographs of works of art, 1979-1980. [slides have not been microfilmed.]
The records of the Millicent Roger Museum measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1983 to 1984. The records consist of two letters, one to and one from Arthur Wolf, the museum director, regarding the Hispanic Artists Registry; the registry of Hispanic artists and craftsmen in New Mexico, consisting of questionnaires completed by each artist; magazine and newspaper articles about the registry and about Millicent Rogers.
A circa 100 p. chronology of Sage's life (published as a book, along with Sage's unpublished one-act Surrealist Plays in 1995 and 2011); her medical history; an exhibition record; circa 40 letters from Sage to her father, her stepmother, and her half-sister, Cornelia Sage Walcott Mackin; letters to Miller from Sage's friends, family and colleagues; and correspondence, 1973-1983, related to Sage's work; transcripts of interviews conducted by Miller with people who knew Sage; Sage's cancelled checks; bibliographic references assembled by Miller; Miller's master's thesis, "The Art of Kay Sage," Boston University, l982; a catalog raisonne by Miller (to be published as a book by Prestel Verlag, New York, in 2018) including ca. 200 photos of Sage's works; photos of Christmas cards by Sage and Yves Tanguy; and 42 photos, 1898-ca. 1960, of Sage, her family and friends, and 12 photos of Sage's residence, 1957.
Correspondence; biographical data; photographs; artists files; writings; financial material; a travel diary; and miscellany.
REEL 600: Correspondence, December 1933-August 1935, comprising 88 letters between Milliken, head of the Cleveland section of the PWAP, and applying artists, the Treasury Department, and other officials of the program. In addition there are progress reports on artists' work done in the Cleveland section of PWAP, December 1933-May 1934, extensive lists of artists' projects giving city, building, and description of work, and miscellaneous papers.
REEL 684: Typescript of an unpublished book "Stories Behind the Museum Collection," a 254 page history of the Cleveland Museum of Art, Cleveland, Ohio, written by Milliken. The history begins with the museum's inception in 1913. The date of the writing is ca. 1970.
REEL 1096: Copy of William Milliken's autobiography, 530 p.
REELS 1273-1279: Correspondence; biographical data; photographs; poems; lectures; addresses; radio talks; receipts and invoices for art objects given to the Cleveland Museum of Art; a travel diary, 1954-1955; and miscellany. There are files on Bernhard Berenson, Clarence Carter, Marshall Fredericks, Henry Keller, Wolfgang Dronig, Kurt Martin, Harold Parsons, Paul Travis, and others.
A letter from Mitchell to the director of the National Gallery of Art seeking information regarding the gallery's policy on copying works of art; and a response informing Mitchell that the gallery does not permit copies to be made of its works.
Correspondence of Alfred R. Mitchell and miscellaneous biographical information.
Reel 682: Correspondence with Susan Eakins (Mrs. Thomas); a letter from the Spanish artist Ignacio Zoloaga; and clippings.
Reel 2434: Correspondence with John H. Cox concerning Cox's purchases and sales of Mitchell's paintings; letters from other buyers of his paintings; and an autobiographical sketch. [microfilm title: San Diego Museum of Art]
The papers of Fred Mitchell, 1938-2007, measure 14.3 liner feet. Correspondence, writings, 29 diaries, and subject files document his personal life and career as a painter and educator in New York City. The papers also include biographical materials, artwork, sketchbooks, printed material, and photographs.
Among the biographical materials are biographical notes, military records, passports, and resumes. Correspondence includes both professional and personal letters. Correspondents include friends, former students, colleagues, and individuals of romantic interest.
Writings by Mitchell include notebooks containing names and addresses, appointments, lists and a variety of notes. Diaries record Mitchell's personal and professional activities, plans, aspirations, and memories; also, many volumes contain loose items such as printed material, drawings, notes and letters. Other authors represented are Harry Hope Reed, Peter Rooney, and Patrick Rucker.
Subject files maintained by Mitchell concern friends, teaching activities, exhibitions; also, interests in art, dance, poetry, and music. Files on the Mitchell family concern four generations and include Elizabeth Pajerski, his artist sister with whom he sometimes exhibited. There are files on Coenties Slip artists and related exhibitions. Other subjects of note are a Franz Kline traveling exhibition curated by Mitchell, and Mississippi Art Colony. Individuals for whom there are substantial subject files include Justo Gonzales, James M. McQuade, Jim Ochman, Peter Rooney, John W. ("Dicky") Stevens, and Phil Sultz.
Most artwork is by Mitchell and consists mainly of drawings and sketches. Artwork by others includes drawings and watercolors by Peter Rooney, students, and unidentified artists. Mitchell's sketchbooks (16 volumes) contain sketches, drawings, and a few finished watercolors.
Printed material is about or mentions Mitchell. Included are a variety of items such as exhibition catalogs and announcements, brochures, clippings, press releases, and concert programs. Photographs are of Mitchell with family and friends; artwork by Mitchell and other artists; exhibition installations and openings; and places including the Wall-South neighborhood just before the destruction of his studio and travel pictures.
The folder titled "Awards and Certificates" contains a certificate of merit from Scholastic Magazine with a letter and copy of the issue containing an article about its "15th Annual National High School Art Exhibition" (1942) held at the Carnegie Institute. Also included is Mitchell's artist certification issued by New York City.
Correspondence is professional and personal in nature, with incoming letters predominant. Correspondents include friends, former students, colleagues, and individuals of romantic interest. There are letters concerning exhibition and employment opportunities as well as routine personal business.
Mitchell's writings include an article, notes, student papers, and a videocassette of his participation in an Art Students League panel discussion. Twenty six pocket notebooks contain names and addresses, appointments, lists, and notes (some notes are akin to brief diary entries). Writings by others include poems and an article. Of particular interest is Peter Rooney's unpublished Fred Mitchell catalogue raisonne with notes.
Diaries (29 volumes) record Mitchell's personal and professional activities, plans, aspirations, and memories. Entries range from extremely brief notes to lengthy, substantial reflections on the day's events. Most volumes contain drawings and sketches; many also include loose items such as clippings, letters, notes, drawings, and printed material. Sometimes coins are attached, accompanied by a personal memory relating to the coin's date. A substantial number of diary entries were recorded on loose sheets of paper.
Subject files contain varying combinations of correspondence, printed material, writings, art work and photographs that document Mitchell's family, friendships, exhibitions, teaching, and his interests in art, dance, poetry, and music. Individuals for whom there are substatial subject files include: Justo Gonzales, James M. McQuade, Jim Ochman, Peter Rooney, John W. ("Dicky") Stevens, and Phil Sultz.
Artwork by Mitchell consists mainly of drawings and sketches in ink and pencil. Many identified and dated. Some were done while traveling and others are studies for paintings. Also found are 4 abstract watercolors. Artwork by others includes drawings in pencil, ink, pastels and watercolors by Peter Rooney, students, and unidentified artists.
The series consists of 16 sketchbooks containing sketches and drawings in pencil, ink, and marker; a few are embellished with color. In addition, there are a small number of finished watercolors and one pastel. Subjects include figures, portraits, landscapes, harbor views, birds, and abstract compositions. Many sketches and drawings are identified and dated.
This series includes a wide variety of printed material about or mentioning Mitchell, concerning friends, general art topics and other subjects of interest to him. Included are exhibition catalogs and announcements, magazine articles, newspaper clippings, promotional material from organizations, and concert programs.
Photographs of Fred Mitchell include portraits and candid views; he also appears with friends, students, and family members. There are images of his siblings and their respective families, as well as of Don Wright and unidentified individuals. Artwork documented in this series is mainly by Mitchell; also, there are photographs of works by Lois Dodd, William Freed, Hans Hofmann, George Preston, and Philip Sultz. Views of exhibition installations and openings record some of Fred Mitchell's solo exhibitions; views of group shows include some in which his sister, Elizabeth Pajerski, participated. Pictures of places include travel photographs.
Note on envelope indicates "Photograph from the ferry made by Beth in June of '86 --the Southern Tip School of Art"
Typescripts of speeches by Paul Burlin, Stuart Davis, Adolph Gottlieb, George L. K. Morris, and James Johnson Sweeney, delivered at a forum, "The Modern Artist Speaks," held at the Museum of Modern Art on May 5, 1948. In addition to a typescript of all five speeches, preliminary drafts with handwritten corrections are included of Burlin, Davis and Morris's speeches. Burlin comments on the artist as cultural critic, Morris discusses the failure of art criticism and Davis interprets contemporary attacks on abstract art as an attempt to control the artist's attitudes toward society.
The papers of Kenworth Moffett measure 0.6 linear feet and date from circa 1959 to 1988. The papers document Moffett's career as a critic and curator through correspondence, slides and photographs of works of art by artists who were subjects of Moffet's research, notes, teaching material from his time at Wellesley College, and unpublished papers written by colleagues and students.
Series includes correspondence, slides and photographs of works of art by artists who were subjects of Moffet's research, notes, teaching material from his time at Wellesley College, writings by students, an edition of the "Moffett's Artletter" newsletter, and an NEA grant application related to an exhibition, Abstract Sculpture Since 1945.
Correspondence, a typed biography, clippings, photographs, sketchbooks and watercolors.
American Artists' Congress documentation includes photographs, exhibition catalogs, and other printed material. The Artists' Union materials include six photographs by Irving Marantz of members (some identified) of the Artists' Union participating in a demonstration advocating unionization for all artists. WPA material includes photographs and a brochure.
The papers of artist, curator, and arts administrator Evangeline "EJ" Montgomery measure 26.1 linear feet and date from 1929-2019. The papers relate to Montgomery's career and involvement in the African American art scene in California and Washington, D.C. The collection includes biographical materials consisting of calendars and appointment books, certificates and awards, records regarding Montgomery's personal art collection, resumes and biographies, and other personal records; correspondence with colleagues and friends such as Benny Andrews, Willis Bing Davis, Edmund Barry Gaither, Eugene Grigsby, Dele Jegede, Samella Lewis, Nzegwu Nkiru, and A.M. Weaver; professional activity files documenting Montgomery's career as a consultant, curator, member, and volunteer for a myriad of organizations including the American Association for State and Local History, National Conference of Artists, and the Oakland Museum; and research files and notes on African and African American arts and history, Black media, Black photographers, the museum profession, and the artists Betye Saar, Lois Mailou Jones, Nike Davies-Okundaye, Romare Bearden, Ruth Waddy, Sam Gilliam, and Sargent Johnson. Also included are files regarding Montgomery's career as an artist containing material on the Brandywine Workshop, interviews with Floyd Coleman and for The Historymakers, sales and consignment records, and other material; printed and documentary material consisting of art reproductions, clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and posters regarding Montgomery and other African American artists; artwork by Montgomery, including student sketchbooks, and others; photographic material of Montgomery, friends and colleagues, events, personal snapshots, and works of art; and unidentified audiovisual material.
The series contains 4 calendars and 13 appointments books that document Montgomery's daily activities, certificates and awards, financial and legal records, resumes and biographical writings about Montgomery, Montgomery's student records from when she attended Los Angeles City College, a file containing lists and transaction records regarding Montgomery's personal art collection, notes by Montgomery recording personal life events, and files that include born digital records regarding Montgomery's retirement from USIA and her birthday celebrations.
4 calendars
13 books
The majority of correspondence is with colleagues from Montgomery's contacts at USIA, consultant work, and the many professional organizations in which she was involved. The correspondence reveals Montgomery's professional relationships, and also her many friendships with fellow colleagues in the arts who often express their admiration and gratitude towards Montgomery. Some correspondents included are Benny Andrews, Elizabeth Catlett (filed under "M" as Calett's letter is signed with her married name "Mora"), Willis Bing Davis, Edmund Barry Gaither, Eugene Grigsby, Dele Jegede, Samella Lewis, Nzegwu Nkiru, and A.M. Weaver. Also included are letters between Montgomery and her husband Ulysses, correspondence from Montgomery, and letters from correspondents by first name only.
Includes correspondence between the Whitney Museum and the Black Emergency Cultural Coalition.
Includes a letter of recommendation for Montgomery's fellowship application with the Howard Foundation.
Correspondence is between Dockery and various correspondents.
Includes letter from Elizabeth Catlett, signed with her married name "Mora."
The series documents Montgomery's career as a consultant, curator, member, and volunteer for a myriad of organizations such as the African American Museums Association, Art West Associated North, National Conference of Artists, National Association of Negro Business and Professional Women's Club, and Women's Caucus for Art. She also worked to promote African American artists through exhibitions, talks, conferences, events, and educational programs, and worked to cultivate cross-cultural programs in the United States of African and other international artists. Many of Montgomery's projects were done in conjunction with her role as Program Officer for the United States Information Agency (USIA). Files contain 33 video and sound recordings, 2 born digital records, meeting notes, exhibition and project planning documents, exhibition reviews and other printed materials, correspondence, budget records, and other organizational materials.
Files for exhibitions curated by Montgomery include Black Graphics (1973-1975), Black Reflections I: The Paintings and Sculpture of Sargent Johnson / Charles Dawkins (1976), and "Images: Africa's Children" (1982). The files contain artwork lists, correspondence, loan documents, material about the artists, and other exhibition planning documents.
Montgomery's files as National Exhibits Workshop Coordinator at the American Association for State and Local History include Exhibits Workshops Screening Committee material, a notebook regarding workshops, and material on the NEH funded Interpreting History Workshops.
Montgomery was the Ethnic Art Consultant at the Oakland Museum from 1968 until 1974. Her files include survey records researching exhibitions of Black artists, catalog statement drafts by Montgomery for a Grafton Tyler Brown exhibition, planning and printed material for the exhibition series Black Untitled (1970-1973), and records for the museum's first large exhibition New Perspectives in Black Art (1968) at Kaiser Industries prior to the museum's opening.
Conference files document Montgomery's participation at conferences for the College Art Association and James A. Porter Colloquium, along with video recordings of Montgomery lecturing at the October Gallery Art Seminar and Alabama State University.
Proposals were not created by Montgomery.
The series contains Montgomery's files on subjects she researched over her multi decade long career as an arts administrator. Included is material on African and African American arts and history, Black media, Black photographers, the museum profession, and artists. Artists included in Montgomery's research are Betye Saar, Lois Mailou Jones, Nike Davies-Okundaye, Romare Bearden, Ruth Waddy, Sam Gilliam, and significant files on Sargent Johnson, most of which were most likely created while curating Johnson's retrospective in 1971 for the Oakland Museum. The files consist of 29 sound and video recordings, 3 born digital records, printed materials, notes, artists' biographical materials, correspondence, and other material related to her research subjects. Also included are notes on printmaking, twins, and grants, as well as three notebooks regarding projects, travel plans, and other professional activities.
Includes an interview by Montgomery and 2 video recordings (VHS).
7 scrapbooks
3 notebooks with notes regarding projects, travel plans, Montgomery's exhibitions, and other professional activities.
The series documents Montgomery's career as an artist, particularly her printmaking and metal work. Files include 4 sound and video recordings, artwork and price lists, loan records, sales and consignment records, certificates of authenticity, artwork donations, and interviews with Montgomery for The Historymakers series and with art historian Floyd Coleman. Files for the Brandywine Workshop include material from Montgomery's award for Excellence in the Arts in 2004 and her residency at the workshop in 2006. Files for exhibitions include artwork lists, loan documents, and photograph albums of Montgomery's exhibitions.
Montgomery's artwork is included as part of the artists' card project.
Includes notes and correspondence with Montgomery. Article was printed in The Crisis magazine in 2000.
Printed material regarding Montgomery and her career as an artist, curator, and administrator includes artwork reproductions, clippings, posters, and exhibition announcements and catalogs. Other materials include brochures and pamphlets, booklets, event programs, invitations, journals and magazines, press releases, publicity packets, and reports. Also included are 3 video recordings of documentary material regarding woodturning, David Dorfman Dance, and American glass.
Program in folder 13 for Howard University's 119th Convocation contains signatures from Lois Mailou Jones and others.
The series contains mixed media artwork by Montgomery, drawings and sketches, a print by Suzanne Browne, and three sketchbooks containing sketches for Montgomery's design project at Los Angeles City College, another student sketchbook possibly created by Montgomery, and a sketchbook containing a child's drawings.
Sketchbook possibly belonging to Montgomery as a student.
The series contains photographic prints, slides, transparencies, and digital photographs of Montgomery; friends and colleagues; 5 born digital records of works of art by Montgomery and others; photographic prints of Mardi Gras Indians by J. Nash Porter; White House photographs; photographs of artist Royce Vaughn; 2 personal video recordings; personal snapshots that include 33 photographs albums of family and friends, social gatherings, Montgomery's exhibition openings, and other personal events; and events and exhibitions that includes 3 video recordings of the Wembley Music Festival, African American historical events, and the funeral of Ron Brown.
Photographs may have been taken by White House photographer Sharon Farmer.
Video recordings consist of 2 cassettes of the Wembley Music Festival and 1 cassette labeled "Ron Brown Funeral" and "African American Historical Events." Also included in the files are photographs by Lillian J. Hoffler of Lowry Sims and David Driskell, the opening ceremony of the Charles H. Wright Museum of African American History in Detroit, and Dianne and Carnell Locke's 25th anniversary party by John Woe.
10 albums
23 albums
Original container labeled "NCA."
Includes photograph of Sheryle Butler.
The series consists of 2 sound recordings and 2 video recordings having no description or label is illegible.
The scattered papers of painter and muralist Tracy Montminy measure 1.2 linear feet and date from 1936 to 1989. Found are biographical materials, photocopies of letters received, photographs of murals, and printed material. Also found are four study drawings for a mural in City Hall, Medford, Massachusetts.
Biographical materials include a resume. Correspondence consists of photocopies of letters received, some of which are from the Works Progress Administration. Photographs are of Montminy's murals and are annotated and labeled. Printed materials include clippings about Montminy, many of which are photocopies. Also found are four conte crayon drawings on tracing paper, "Bending Woman" and "Fighting Men," which were studies for "Terrors of the Wilderness," a mural in City Hall, Medford, Massachusetts (1938).
Business correspondence; and files on artists, containing biographical material, correspondence, photographs, sketches, price lists, exhibition catalogs, and clippings. Information on Lamar Briggs, Fritz Scholder, Donald Roller Wilson, Joe Atteberry, Lucas Johnson, Arthur Turner, and others is included.
Personal and professional papers consisting of biographical material, correspondence, subject files, writings, architectural designs, and printed material.
One letter from Mora to William John Whittemore accepting "with pleasure the honor conferred upon me by the club in asking me to join its ranks..."
Six Christmas cards with original prints by Mora, 1920-1937, sent to Mora's friends, Mr. and Mrs. Edwin D. Shultz, containing information on Mora's activities; one Xmas greeting card with a photo of Mora's daughter, Rosemary, 1920; and six pencil sketches by Mora, completed from pencil scribbles made by the Shultz's and their children.
Two scrapbooks of clippings and photographs documenting Morani's career.
A baby book, 1929; biographical documents; military records; an award certificate; correspondence, undated and 1947-1976; a marriage certificate, divorce papers, and miscellaneous legal papers, 1955-1974; receipts and income tax records; price lists; sales records; loan forms for works of art; miscellaneous business records pertaining to dealings with the Bolles Gallery, 1950-1975; papers relating to Morehouse's teaching career at Sonoma State College; 3 sketchbooks, undated and 1950-1967;
miscellaneous writings by Morehouse, 1937-1949; a poem "Painting #509 by William Morehouse" by Lloyd Clark; clippings, 1949-1976; exhibition announcements and catalogs, 1954-1975; miscellaneous printed material; and photographs of Morehouse, his exhibitions, and his works of art, undated and 1934-1975.
Correspondence, 1957-1970s; lecture notes and syllabi from a studio art courses taught by Morris, 1970s; typescript of a lecture, "Painting in America," delivered at the Warren R. Austin Institute for World Understanding, University of Vermont, July 1958; writings, including "Beginnings of Midwestern Abstraction," from WORLD OF ABSTRACT ART, 1956, and "A Cashier Leaf," from IT IS, Winter/Spring 1959, in which Morris discusses movement and shifting forces found in his painting; exhibition catalogs and announcements; and press releases.
A collection of poems and paintings inspired by developments in physics, mathematics, biology, and astronomy. Archives' copy is inscribed, "Eyre de Lanux".
The papers of painter and inventor Samuel F. B. Morse date from 1826-2009 (bulk 1826-1871), and measure 0.4 linear feet. This small collection documents Morse's role in the early years of the National Academy of Design through his correspondence as the academy's first president, and also includes scattered biographical material, Morse's writings and notes on art from that period, printed material including clippings about Morse and an exhibition catalog, eight photographs, including one of Morse, and a microfilm reel of one of Morse's sketchbooks.
Morse's biographical material records the $1000 gift to the National Academy of Design bequeathed in his will. Morse's correspondence as president of the academy details the conflicts with the American Academy of Fine Arts, and failed attempts to bring about a union of the two organizations. It also documents other academy business such as exhibitions and interactions with other arts institutions, as well as Morse's independent work as an artist receiving commissions. This correspondence is described in two itemized lists compiled by National Academy of Design staff members which are included in this series. Additional correspondence documents negotiations with Morse's son, Edward L. Morse, to secure the gift of the Morse papers that constitute this collection.
Morse's writings and notes on art, primarily in the form of lectures and lecture notes, can also be found here. They include his "Discourse" on the National Academy of Design delivered on the academy's one year anniversary, a criticism of that address, and Morse's response to the criticism. Some of the loose notes were assigned an alphanumeric identification system that does not appear to be explained in the collection, but has been left as is.
Printed material includes eleven articles about Morse, one 1871 edition of the publication Dots and Dashes, by the Morse Telegraph club, Inc., an obituary for Morse's granddaughter, Clara, and a catalog for the exhibition Samuel F. B. Morse: Paintings, Inventions, Documents (1956) at the Syracuse Museum of Art. Also found is a copy of Morse's 1835 book Foreign Conspiracy Against the Liberties of the United States.
Photographs include a copy print of a photo of Morse taken at fifty-nine years of age, shortly after he sent his first successful telegram between Washington and Baltimore on May 24, 1844; three photographs taken at the April 1968 dedication of a plaque by members of the Morse Telegraph Club; a photo of a tablet on Morse's house; and a photograph of a man, probably Morse's son, William Goodrich Morse. Also found is a photo of a charcoal sketch by Morse of his niece, entitled "Lottie," and a photo of a sketch of an unidentified woman, by Kalman Oswald.
Letters; and research material for OLD MASTERS IN AMERICA (1955).
REEL 865: Material compiled in preparation for OLD MASTERS IN AMERICA (Rand McNally, 1955) " a practical guidebook" to the paintings of 40 European "old masters" in American and Canadian art museums. Copies of 4 form letters sent by Morse; 160 letters, 1951-1954, from the museums, some galleries, and some private collectors; and completed questionnaires which list the paintings and usually their dimensions and dates. [Questionnaires have not been filmed as they contain info. found in the publication.]
REEL 3161: Four letters received, 1958-1960, including a letter from Morse's cousin, Ruth Sperry regarding his mother, and letters from Edward Hopper, Byron Browne and William Zorach regarding articles by Morse in ART IN AMERICA.
Biographical material; correspondence with artists, galleries, and museums; photographs of Moses, Charles Eames, Frank Gehry, Kenneth Price, H. C. Westermann, members of the Tamarind Lithograph Workshop, 1968, and others; exhibition catalogs and announcements; and clippings.
Correspondents include Akron Art Institute, Alan Gallery, Albright-Knox Gallery, Brooke Alexander Inc., Allen Memorial Art Museum, Aquinas College (Mich.), Galleria dell 'Ariete, Jason Aver Gallery, Barone Gallery, Larry Bell, Billy Al Bengston, John Berggruen Gallery, Tony Berlant, Wally Berman, Irving Blum, Bocour Artist Colors, Inc., Brooklyn Museum, Dorothy Brown, Lydis Brown, Robert D. Brown, California State University (L.A), Vija Celmins, Norman Colp, Contemporary Arts Center, Corcoran Gallery of Art, James Corcoran Gallery, Roy De Forest, Mark Di Suvero, Dilexi Gallery, Documenta 5 (Greece), Dootson/Calderhead Gallery (Seattle, Wa.), Downey Museum of Art, Dunkelman Gallery, Editions Alecto of American, Ltd., Edizioni O (Milan), Robert Elkon Gallery, Everett Ellin Gallery, Sam Francis, Grapestake Gallery, Marcia Hafif, Hansen Fuller Gallery, Harry Holtzman, Walter Hopps, International Institute of Experimental Printmaking (Santa Cruz, Ca.), Ithaca College, Martha Jackson Gallery, Bernard Jacobson, Ltd. (London), Robert C. Kauffman, Leslie Kerr, Phyllis Kind Gallery, Robert Kinmont, Krikhaar Art Dealers (Amsterdam), La Jolla Museum of Contemporary Art, La Tortue Gallery, Galerie Dorothea Leonhart (Munich), Lippincott, Inc., Penny Little Fine Arts Service (Calif.), Los Angeles County Museum of Art, Alan Lynch, Christophe De Minel, Richard Minsky, Margaret Muller Galerie (Stuttgart), Multiples, Inc.,Hans Neuendorf Galerie (Hamburg), Newark Museum, Barnett Newman,Fine Arts Patrons of Newport Harbor, Oakland Museum, Mike Olodort, Constance Perkins, Philadelphia Museum of Art, Peter Plagens, Kenneth Price, Ad Reinhardt, Bruce Reynolds, Cesar Romero, Courtney Sale Gallery (Dallas), Alan D. Shean, Michael and Ileana Sonnabend, Galerie Darthea Speyer (Paris), Gene Sturman, Simon W. Taylor, Morgan Thomas, University of California at Los Angeles, U.C.L.A. Oral History Program (Michael Auping), University of New Mexico at Albuquerque, Larry Urrutia, H. C. Westermann, Nicholas Wilder Gallery, Malcolm Winton, and Theo Wujeik.
The Rosenthal interview, presumably talking with Moshe Alon (off camera) discusses his training and teaching at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston School, and Boston University, and in the Boston Public Schools where he was the first Jewish art teacher. He mentions Alan Crite, Philip Hale, Bernard Chaet, Karl Zerbe.
The second and lengthier (approx. 1 1/2 hrs.) is an interview with Nat Jacobson, and his interest in becoming an artist, museum schools, painting classes, the Massachusetts College of Art, serving in the army, and attending the MFA, Boston School on the GI Bill, commissions, and his mural at Boston University.
165 black and white photographs of Moskowitz's works of art.
Master's thesis, THE CONSTRUCTIONS OF GERTRUDE GREENE, THE 1930s AND 1940s, submitted to Queens College, the City University of New York, 1980; and an article on Greene from ARTS MAGAZINE, April 1981.
Motherwell writes inviting Baziotes to a preview of his work.
A photograph by Gabriel Moulin of James Thurber sketching at his easel.
54 photographs of 32 Gilbert Stuart portraits in private and public collections in Ireland accompanied by Mount's description of each portrait, including sitter, the size, the date if known, the collection in which it was found, and a critique of the work.
The photographs of David Smith measure 0.3 linear feet and date from circa 1945 to 1995. The collection consists of fifteen black and white photographs of David Smith and his works of art taken by Ugo Mulas between circa 1945-1980. Also included are exhibition announcements and catalogs for Smith exhibitions and "Ironclad Images by An American Vulcan" magazine article featuring some of the photographs taken by Mulas.
The photographs of David Smith measure 0.3 linear feet and date from circa 1945 to 1995. The collection consists of fifteen black and white photographs of David Smith and his works of art taken by Ugo Mulas between circa 1945-1980, exhibition announcements and catalogs for Smith exhibitions, and "Ironclad Images by An American Vulcan" magazine article featuring some of the photographs taken by Mulas.
The papers of muralist Buell Mullen measure 0.4 linear feet and date from 1942 to 1982. Found are scattered biographical material, professional correspondence, information on mixing epoxy resins, printed material, and photographs.
Biographical materials include a resume and an honorary degree from Lake Erie College in Painsville, Ohio. Largely, correspondence concerns Mullen's murals. Letters are from Bowling Green State University, Milton Eisenhower, General Motors, International Minerals and Chemicals Corporation, Johns Hopkins University, Lake Erie College, Dean Rusk, Simon Fraser University, UNESCO, and Urban Coalition. Printed materials consist of published articles by Mullen concerning the process of painting on metal, clippings, mural dedication invitations, and scattered reproductions of works of art. Photographs are of Mullen at work, with her artwork, and presenting her finished works. Also found are photographs of her murals and smaller works of art.
The James Mullen Christmas card collection measures 0.4 linear feet and dates from 1955 to 2021. The collection includes 80 original Christmas cards and accompanying prints created by artists, consisting of etchings, drawings, silkscreen images, watercolors and collages. Nineteen of the cards were created by Mullen and sent to his colleagues. Also included are studies by Mullen and original accompanying zinc plate and linoleum blocks used to make his cards. Artists represented include Tamara Kernozek Blank, Marilyn Brownell, Alyce Burmeister, Nancy Callahan, Andrew Case, John DePol, Janice Dowine, Elaine Downing, Frank Gilroy, Ray Gloeckler, Yvonne Goodhill, James Hathaway, Jane Higgins, Jacques Hnizdovsky, David Holmes, William Hubschmidt, Roxanne Johnson, Glen Kaufman, Alan Larsen, Gerson Leiber, An-Khang-vu-Cong, Ernest Mahlke, Jeanne Marchese Minnie S. Martin, John Mazarak, Bill Mitchell, James Mullen, Megan Mullen, Bruce North, George O'Connell, Jean Paris, Robert Pum, Clare Romano Ross, John Ross, Thomas Seawell, Jill Sheedy, Timothy Sheesley, Bruce Shobaken, Alice Siegfried, Arnold Singer, Scott Sorrentino, Clair van Vliet, H. Donald White, Ron Wilcox, Hale Woodruff, George Zimmerman, Edwin Zoller and George Zoretich.
A photograph of Mullican, 1965; printed material, 1947-1989, including exhibition catalogs and announcements, posters, brochures, several reproductions of Mullican's work on greeting cards; and the first publication (1947) of the Illuminati, printed by Jack Werner Stauffacher of the Greenwood Press, San Mateo, California: The Gain of Aft, limited edition copy 109 of 250, illustrated poems by Lee Mullican.
The scattered papers of painter Daphne Mumford measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1969 to 1980. Included are biographical materials on Mumford's parents, photographs of an exhibition and slides of works of art, poetry by Mumford, and printed material.
Biographical materials include genealogical charts for Mumford's parents and the Mumford and Bedford families as well as biographical sketches for Mumford's father. Photographs depict an exhibition and slides are of works of art. Printed materials include clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and press releases. Also found are poems written by Daphne Mumford.
Memorial catalog about Munger's life and career including illustrations of his work. It was "compiled by a friend, assisted by his relatives, and from reliable art critics both in America and Europe..."
The papers of photographer Nickolas Muray measure 1.5 linear feet and date from 1910 to 1992. Found within the papers are biographical materials; business and personal correspondence, including a handful of letters from Frida Kahlo; writings; teaching files, primarily of photography courses taught at New York University; printed material; artwork; and photographic materials of Muray, his family and friends, and his work.
There is a 0.6 linear feet Unprocessed Addition which includes biographical material, correspondence, photographs, research notes and a diary about Africa, and a subject file on the book The Revealing Eye, Personalities of the 1920s, written by Paul Gallico with photographs taken by Muray, 1967.
Biographical materials include curriculum vitae, identification cards related to Muray's particaption in Olympic fencing events, and membership related to the Circle of Confusion and the New York Coffee House Club. There is also a transcript of Muray's interview with the NY radio station WEAF regarding beauty and aesthetics, and documentation of Muray's 1961 heart attack and recovery.
Correspondence is primarily with Muray's friends, business associates, and clients, including Martha Graham, Claude Monet, Ruth St. Denis, and H.G. Wells. There are also letters related to his participation in the Olympic Games, his application to the Army Signal Corps Photographic Services, and a handful of letters from Frida Kahlo that discouss her health, impending divorce from Diego Rivera, and plans regarding the exhibition of her artwork.
Writings include an autobiographical account by Muray; lists and notes regarding celebrity portrait photo sittings; typescripts of theater perfermance reviews; and a mock-up of Great Tribes of the World, with photographs by Muray. There is also a typescript commentary of Revealing Eye by Paul Gallico.
Teaching files are primarily course materials relating to Muray's 1940 and 1941 New York University photography classes and a lecture series based on his travels in Africa. Printed material includes a copy of Muray's book Celebrity Portraits of the Twenties and Thirties, a brochure advertising Muray Studios, clippings, and miscellaneous printed material.
There are also a handful of sketches by illustrator Willy Pogany and photographic materials of Muray, his family and friends, and his work. Photographs include Muray in uniform as a member of the 1928 Olympic fencing team; carbro prints of Loretta Young, 3 models, and and arrangements of food; and a photograph of Muray with Miguel Covarrubias, Diego Rivera, and Frida Kahlo.
Includes letters from Evangeline Adams, Judith Anderson, and the secretary to the King of Belgium.
Includes letters to Hall Caine, Feodor Chaliapin, Miguel Covarrubias, and Joan Crawford, as well as a Christmas card from Frank Crowninshield decorated with an etching by Gari Melchers.
Includes letters from John Galsworthy and Martha Graham.
Includes letters from Jascha Heifetz, Joseph Hergesheimer, Hedda Hopper, and A.S. Hutchinson.
Includes letters from Mary Martin, Claude Monet, and Agnes O'Neill. There are also two photographic Christmas cards of Murray in costume.
Includes a letter from Bessie Breuer Poor.
Includes a profile of Muray by Parrott.
Includes letters from Ruth St. Denis, George Bernard Shaw's secretary, H. De Vere Stacpoole, and Frank Swinnerton.
Includes letters from Carl Van Vechten, A.B. Walkley, and H.G. Wells.
Oversized materials housed in OV 3.
The Unprocessed Addition includes biographical material, correspondence, photographs, research notes and a diary about Africa, and a subject file on the book The Revealing Eye, Personalities of the 1920s, written by Paul Gallico with photographs taken by Muray, 1967.
Letter to Mr. Bruno, including a manuscript, "Recent Tendencies in the Fine Arts in Europe, 1815-1915."
Four letters and a postcard, 1948, 1951, 1956, 1964, from Gerald Murphy to Marion "Diddy" (Mrs. Lloyd) Lowndes and family. The letters speak of personal matters concerning Murphy as well as his wife, Sara, and their friendship with Lowndes, travels, and feelings.
Biographical and personal data; correspondence, mostly letters to Harriet from William; poetry, essays, and notes; copies of newspaper clippings, publicity material; and a file of correspondence and printed material from the Office of the Architect of the Capitol.
The scattered papers of painter, etcher, and illustrator Nelly Littlehale Murphy, measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1846 to 1945. Biographical materials, printed materials, and photographs document Murphy's work as a painter and illustrator in the Massachusetts area.
Biographical materials include a pencil sketch of flowers and an original holiday card, price lists, and a writing entitled "The Land That Never Was" by Murphy. Photographs are of Murphy's works of art and a copy print of a photo of Murphy on a boat. Printed materials are comprised of reviews for Nelly Murphy and her husband, painter Hermann Dudley Murphy, and his 1945 obituary. The exhibition catalogs range from 1846 (National Academy of Design catalog inscribed to Murphy) to 1942 (her memorial exhibition).
Two ballpoint pen and felt-tip pen drawings by J. B. Murray.
The Museum of Craft and Folk Art records measure 28.9 linear feet and 12.48 GB and date from 1970 to 2012. The museum was established in 1982 in San Francisco, California and exhibited local and national craft and folk art collections until it closed in 2012. The collection includes administration records, extensive exhibition files, artists' files, museum publications, printed material, video recordings, born digital items, and photographic material.
Administration records include museum bylaws, lists of early exhibitions, education program evaluations, documents related to public programs, and printed materials.
Exhibition files comprise the largest group of materials in the collection. Notable exhibitions documented include Who'd A Thought It: Improvisation in African-American Quiltmaking (1987-1988), MetalSpeaks: The Unexpected (1997), and Warren MacKenzie: Legacy of an American Potter (2009). There are also video recordings and born digital content scattered throughout the series. Though most of the material is related to the MOCFA exhibitions, there are a few files on exhibitions at other galleries and museums. The exhibition files contain a wide variety of correspondence, art inventories, price lists, printed and digital materials, guest registers, photographic materials, and video recordings, electronic discs, videodiscs, and floppy discs.
Artists' files are found for a handful of artists, including Bennett Bean, Ralph Fasanella, Bill Graham, Ron Kovatch, Mike Moran, and Salvador V. Ricalde. The files contain primarily video recordings of artist performances and interviews, but also include resumes and inquiries.
Museum of Craft and Folk Art publications consist of exhibition catalogs, newsletters, reports, and announcements. There are several video recordings of events, such as fashion shows, that were held at the museum.
Printed materials and commercial video recordings include an oversize scrapbook, binders of exhibition press clippings, and folders of clippings on various topics, as well as documentaries and news coverage of the museum.
Photographic materials consist of slides, negatives, photographs, transparencies, and a photo album. The images are of artwork, exhibition installations, events, artists, and museum offices and staff.
Administration records include Museum of Craft and Folk Art bylaws and guidelines, lists of early exhibitions, evaluations for education programs and public programs, and an architectural rendering of the Yerba Buena Lane building. Materials related to public programs consist of announcements, event scheduling documentation, printed and digital material, and questionnaires from program attendees. There are also 2 videocassettes (VHS) of events probably kept on file for reference.
The bulk of this series is comprised of Museum of Craft and Folk Art exhibitions, but there are also a few exhibitions at other art venues. The series includes correspondence, shipping notices, art inventories, price lists, printed materials, guest registers, and photographic materials. Notable exhibitions include Innerskins/Outerskins: Gut and Fishskin (1987), Who'd A Thought It: Improvisation in African-American Quiltmaking (1987-1988) which was a traveling exhibition, Folk Art of the Soviet Union (1990), MetalSpeaks: The Unexpected (1997), Emblems of Passage: Art of Africa, Oceania, and the Americas (2002), The Art of Gaman: Arts and Crafts From the Japanese Internment Camp 1942-1946 (2006), and Warren MacKenzie: Legacy of an American Potter (2009). There are also 46 videocassettes, and born digital materials of exhibition events, artist interviews, performances, and general documentation.
There is 1 videocassette (VHS) in the Dorothy Weiss exhibition files that includes footage from this show.
Includes 2 videocassettes (VHS), 1 of which also contains footage from Contemporary Craft Perspectives (2000).
Film included: Parade (1952)
Partial transfer only.
Films included: Eat Pie, Share the Pie, Teach Pie, and The Whole Pie.
Artists' files includes resumes and inquiries from artists interested in exhibiting at the MOCFA but not necessarily represented by the museum, which were kept on file for reference, along with several recordings of artists, probably performances or interviews or studio tours, that were not clearly related to any exhibition. There are 8 videocassettes (VHS) and 1 electronic disk (CD).
Museum of Craft and Folk Art (MOCFA) publications include exhibition catalogs, newsletters, reports, and announcements published by the MOCFA. There are also 4 videocassettes and some born digital material of exhibition images and events at the museum that were recorded by MOCFA.
Oversized material housed in OV 31.
Printed materials and video recordings includes an oversized scrapbook (disbound) of clippings and photographs about the museum's early exhibitions, several (disbound) binders of exhibition press clippings, clippings on assorted subjects maybe intended for research on exhibition ideas, documentaries on artists published by third parties, and news coverage of exhibitions. There are 17 videocassettes, 1 sound cassette, and 1 born digital video recording.
Oversized material housed in OV 33-35.
Includes born digital records, see ER52.
Photographic materials include slides, negatives, printed and digital photographs, and transparencies. There is a disbound album of exhibition installations and events, slides of crafts from different geographic regions (titles in quotation marks reflect the original labels of materials), slides of artwork from exhibitions, portraits of artists, snapshots of events such as auctions and openings, and photographs of MOCFA offices and staff.
Series of black and white photographs (18 cm x 13 cm) of artwork, maybe used for reference.
Copy print of photograph that was originally taken circa 1927.
Snapshots at parties and events.
Correspondence with Eero Saarinen and Associates regarding "Architecture and Imagery - Four New Buildings," in which Saarinen's design for the TWA building was exhibited, 1959. Correspondents include Saarinen and his wife, Aline, Arthur Drexler and Wilder Green of MOMA, and William H. Gardner, on Saarinen's staff.
Administrative records pertaining to Denys Peter Myer's WWII service including war damage reports of the Wurzburg Residence in Germany that he was tasked to inspect, and seven essays written by Myers while at Columbia University on the subject of art history.
Correspondence, biographical data, clippings, a diary, articles, sketches, exhibition catalogs, and a thesis on the sculpture of Ethel Myers by Paula Ann Snorf.
The papers of architect, craftsman, woodworker, and furniture designer George Nakashima measure 1.0 linear foot and date from 1950 to 1991. The collection is comprised of biographical material, correspondence, writings, subject files, and printed material that mostly relate to Nakashima's work in furniture design.
Biographical materials consist of a curriculum vitae and obituaries. Correspondence is with clients, colleagues, and friends in the United Staes, Japan, and the Sri Aurobindo community. Writings by and about Nakashima include articles, essays, and a speech about his design processes. Subject files are on Alfred Caldwell, flush toilet systems, trademark, and wood and tree services. Printed material includes art reproductions, booklets, catalogs, clippings, and publicity material.
This series contains Nakashima's curriculum vitae, a memorial service bulletin, and photocopies of his obituaries.
This series consists of general chronological files and named files. Chronological correspondence spans four decades and includes letters with clients, colleagues, and friends regarding business dealings, visits to Nakashima's workshop, and his ongoing affiliation with the Sri Aurobindo community. Named files are for awards, an exhibition at the Central Bucks Chamber of Commerce, correspondents in Japan, scholar and Sri Aurobindo devotee Vasant Merchant, correspondence regarding Nakashima's book titled The Soul of the Tree: A Woodworker's Reflections, and letters from the Sri Aurobindo temple.
Includes material on the Order of the Sacred Treasure awarded by the Emperor of Japan and the Altar for Peace.
Writings by Nakashima include essays and a speech delivered to the New York Herald Tribune Forum on his design process and how his craft is connected to the natural and spiritual world. Writings about Nakashima include a translated article from Kateigaho magazine, "A Tree of Destiny" by Richard A. Ek, and article excerpts printed onto a single page.
This series contains mainly printed materials but also contains some correspondence and photographs in files for architecture professor Alfred Caldwell, flush toilet systems, trademarks, and wood and tree services.
Includes a speech transcript and photocopy of "The Hex of Harmony" by Caldwell.
Includes an engraving copy of a hand drawn logo for Nakashima's business.
Includes photographs of cut trees, tables, and clocks.
Art reproductions of St. James in Pennington, New Jersey, booklets, catalogs and clippings relating to Nakashima, and publicity material for exhibitions and events are in printed materials.
Almost all newspaper clippings are photocopies.
The Andy Nasisse files relating to self-taught artists measure 0.8 linear feet and date from 1979 to 1986, with additional undated materials. Included are artist files on twenty-five self-taught artists. Files consist primarily of black and white photographs of artists, their artworks, and photographs of unidentified artworks. Also included is a letter discussing artist Howard Finster's first dealer, Jeffrey Camp, and in which Nasisse offers his advice to Finster to limit production of his work. An audio recording of an interview with Miles Carpenter conducted by Nasisse, and a documentary about J. B. Murray, A Video Documentary of an Artist and His Work, are also present in these files. The documentary features many of Murray's paintings and drawings, as well as his comments on his art and visions.
The artists included in the files are Eldren M. (E. M.) Bailey, Miles Carpenter, Tessie Carroll, Emanuel "Litto" Damonte, Samuel Perry (S.P.) Dinsmoor, Sam Doyle, John Ehn, Howard Finster, Laura Pope Forrester, Dilmus Hall, Irene Hall, Bessie Harvey, St. EOM (Eddie Owens Martin), Jeff McKissack, John Milkovitch, J. B. Murray, Grandma Tressa Prisbrey, Dow Pugh, W.T. Ratcliffe (or Ratliff), William Carlton Rice (Mr. Rice), Royal Robertson, James "Son Ford" Thomas, Mose Tolliver, Frank van Zant (Chief Rolling Mountain Thunder), and Brother Joseph Zoetl.
Included are artist files on twenty-five self-taught artists. Files consist primarily of black and white photographs of artists, their artworks, and photographs of unidentified artworks. Also included is a letter discussing artist Howard Finster's first dealer, Jeffrey Camp, and in which Nasisse offers his advice to Finster to limit production of his work. An audio recording of an interview with Miles Carpenter conducted by Nasisse, and a documentary about J. B. Murray, A Video Documentary of an Artist and His Work, are also present in these files. The documentary features many of Murray's paintings and drawings, as well as his comments on his art and visions.
Includes photographs of Henry Aaron sculpture.
Includes negatives.
Photographs taken after Eddie Owens Martin's death.
J.B. Murry is also known as J.B. Murray.
Includes negatives.
REEL D9: A letter to William A. Moore, November 5, 1877, describing his engraving techniques, and to Charles Henry Hart, July 20, 1896, regarding a drawing of Napoleon by Nast.
REEL 3161: A letter, 1874, from Nast to "Dear Sir" thanking him for the "complimentary notice" of Nast's art work.
Minutes of a meeting of the trustees of the Saltonstall Arts Fund; letters and memorandums relating to the sale of works from the Saltonstall collection; lists of works in the collection and appraisals; a "Memorial Exhibition" catalog; an estate auction catalog; and photocopies of clippings about Saltonstall.
Records of the National Arts Club, spanning the period 1898 to 1960, document the founding of the organization, and its governance, administration, finances, exhibitions, and social activities. There are large gaps in the records and many of those surviving are incomplete, which can be explained by a 1932 resolution of the Board of Governors that "old files and letters and bills in the storeroom prior to 1922 may be destroyed at the discretion of the Secretary and Treasurer."
Minutes and reports of the Board of Governors and Executive Committee are fairly complete through 1949, but sparse thereafter. Records do not exist for all standing and special committees, and those remaining tend to be concentrated in the early twentieth century.
Correspondence of the officers, for the most part, is routine and relates to administrative matters. Financial records cover the period 1917 to 1950, with a large number of gaps.
A small number of records of the Arts Realty Co. (later known as 15 Gramercy Park, Inc.) are extant. These include lists of stockholders, correspondence concerning mortgage bonds, and minutes.
Membership records, arranged alphabetically, are available for the years 1931 to 1959, and there are rosters arranged by membership category, 1940-1952; in addition, printed membership lists were issued circa 1900-1951.
More than four hundred exhibitions are known to have been held in the galleries of the National Arts Club between 1899 and 1960. Catalogs for 124 National Arts Club exhibitions are available at the Archives of American Art; 69 titles are to be found among the Club's records and an additional 55 were microfilmed previously as parts of other collections. Other exhibition documentation includes printed matter such as invitations, entry blanks, publicity, and photographs (see Appendix A). For some exhibitions, supporting documentation such as correspondence with exhibitors and collectors, sales and consignment records, and shipping receipts have survived. These files are mainly confined to Books of the Year exhibitions, Arts and Crafts/Decorative Arts exhibitions, and a smaller number of exhibitions of Living American Etchers, 1928-1957.
General social events, activities sponsored by Arts Club committees, and special commemorative occasions are documented by invitations, programs, publicity, calendars of events, and photographs. The majority of this material is contained in seventeen scrapbooks, 1898-1940. Programs of the Men's Open Table, 1915-1950, are particularly well documented by the Chairman's correspondence and three volumes containing meeting notices with signatures of members in attendance.
In addition to printed matter relating to exhibitions and events, scrapbooks, 1898-1940, contain general publicity, clippings concerning members, and samples of National Arts Club printed matter such as form letters to the general membership, brochures, ballots, house rules, published membership lists, year books, and the like. Loose printed matter augments that preserved in the scrapbooks. These sources combined provide a fairly complete set of the Bulletin, but the number of year books is small, and there are catalogs of only slightly more than a third of the exhibitions identified.
Photographs, in addition to those recording exhibitions and events, include portraits of governors, officers, distinguished visitors, speakers, and performers; views of Gramercy Park and the interior and exterior of the clubhouse; and works of art in the permanent collection.
Miscellaneous material includes information on the National Arts Club's first home on West 34th Street, and the Tilden Mansion, its current clubhouse on Gramercy Park; histories of the organization; unpublished speeches presented at Club occasions; and copies of legal documents, including the Club's charter and act of incorporation.
See Appendix A for an annotated list of National Arts Club exhibitions, 1899-1960
This series contains minutes and reports of the Board of Governors and Executive Committee from 1898 to 1957, and minutes and reports of various standing and special committees from 1901 to 1939. Board of Governors and Executive Committee minutes and reports are fairly complete through 1949, but sparse thereafter, and include transcriptions of very early correspondence relating to the selection and acquisition of the first clubhouse. Records for special committees are not complete either, and tend to be concentrated in the early twentieth century.
See Appendix B for a list of officers of the National Arts Club
(including records of the Organizing Secretary, Charles de Kay, and the Organizing Committee, with copies of the charter, constitution, and house rules)
This series contains correspondence of club officers and tends to be routine and administrative, relating particularly to the management of the restaurant and studio building, election of members, and collection of dues. Individual letters concerning important events in the history of the National Arts Club, or relating to art, artists, and the Club's permanent collection are noted in the subseries descriptions.
The Officers' Correspondence subseries includes several categories: General correspondence (organized chronologically), and subject files on mortgage bonds, exhibitions, studio building, and insurance. Officers represented are mainly the Secretary, Assistant Secretary, and President, but there is also correspondence of others including the Board of Governors, chairmen of various committees, and the Treasurer.
Records relating to exhibitions typically include correspondence, sales, consignment and other accounting records, shipping receipts, catalog dummies and galley proofs, and miscellaneous publicity material.
An addition of Officers' Correspondence with artists about the club was added to the collection in 2017. This material is dated circa 1898 to 1934.
(opinions of Charles L. Freer, Charles Henry Hart, Augustus Saint-Gaudens, Alfred Stieglitz, Stanford White, and others, offered in response to a circular describing the proposed National Arts Club)
William T. Evans on the inception of his collection
(Charles Volkmar on decorative arts and gift of vases to NAC, report of Frederick Law Olmsted on site chosen for the Tome Institute, Port Deposit, Md., printed circular of NAC on decoration of the National Capitol with text of a bill to create a Capitol Art Commission, and Louis Agassiz Fuertes's letter about his exhibition with a list of pieces to be shown)
(Pan American Pacific Exposition instructions for exhibitors)
(John Q. A. Ward on changes in management of NAC, and Bancel La Farge on proper lighting for exhibition of stained glass windows)
(American Institute of Architects protest against proposed Dept. of Agriculture buildings that would interfere with L'Enfant plan for D.C., with map)
(John de Witt Warner on the role of women in the National Arts Club)
(lists of important papers in the custody of the Club Secretary)
(petition requesting life membership to honor Frederick S. Lamb)
(correspondence concerning competition for best critical manuscript on the Altman Collection)
(petition and correspondence concerning controversy involving Club Treasurer Alexander Konta, with transcript of "Cross Examination of Mr. Alexander Konta on Brewing and Liquor Interest and German Propaganda, Hearings before a Sub-Committee on the Judiciary, U.S. Senate)
(brochure about Co-Operative Art Building)
(form letter from John Quinn requesting NAC support in his fight to remove tax on art sales)
(additional documents concerning Alexander Konta, and legal papers regarding objection of NAC to zoning changes proposed for neighboring property)
("Soul of America" contest sponsored by NAC)
(reminiscences of NAC's early years solicited from long-time members, including replies from J. William Fosdick, Dr. William Bainbridge, Thomas G. Taaffe, George P. Peabody, and Charles Vezin)
(George Chapellier's notes on restoration of paintings exhibited at NAC)
(suggestion of J. Frederick Talcott to sell works by artist life members in order to raise money)
(correspondence with Helen Hayes concerning election to life membership)
(proposed amendments to constitution, and extensive suggestions of Walter Zahn for improved administration)
(revision of constitution)
(amendments to Certificate of Incorporation, and establishment of Gregg Memorial Room)
(correspondence, sales and consignment records)
(shipping receipts, mailing lists, publicity, and a book of entry blanks and receipts)
(list of participating publishers)
Correspondence found here concerns general Club business and the activities of various standing committees. Also included is printed matter issued by NAC and other arts organizations.
Correspondence in this subseries concerns resignations.
This subseries begins with Treasurer’s notebooks which contain correspondence, reports, and annotated copies of Board of Executive Committee minutes. Working papers include comparative statistics, balance sheets and printed Treasurer's reports, in addition to correspondence.
For additional information relating to the records in this subseries see Series 2.1: Officers' Correspondence, War Tax Refund and Mortgage Bonds; Series 3: Financial Records; and Series 8.1, Treasurer's Reports.
This series concerns arrangements for events held at the Club (both NAC and non-NAC sponsored), restaurant, accommodations for members visiting from out of town, and use of gallery space with detailed schedules for 1957-1958.
This subseries contains correspondence about house rules, condition of the building, and the needs and problems of residents and those renting studios.
The correspondence found here mainly concerns issuing stamps to raise money for financial aid to art workers suffering financial reverses due to the war and to help increase food production for the country at large. Included are sample stamps designed by Eugene Savage, and printed matter of the American Artists' War Emergency Fund Committee.
Correspondence found in this subseries concerns the selection of speakers, comments by members about programs, some announcements of meetings, and printed matter about speakers. The notices of Men's Open Table meetings comprise one announcement per page, accompanied by signatures of members in attendance; also included are Ipson sketches of speakers: Dr. Elwood Hendrick, April 26, 1928; Prof. J.W. Jenks, Feb. 14, 1927; Col. Norman Schwartzkopf, Dec. 5, 1927; Gregory Zilboorg, March 12, 1928; and of members Billy [Hutchinson], Dec. 5, 1927, and Mason Chase, Jan. 16, 1928. There is also the poem, "To the Mens Open Table," by Frank Chapin Bray, Nov. 1926.
For related information see also Series 8.1: National Arts Club Printed Matter and Series 9: Scrapbooks.
This series contains general ledgers and cashbooks, accounts of special funds, and Treasurer's reports. Correspondence of the Treasurer and other officers is especially thorough regarding application for and use of a refund of war tax levied on membership dues in 1917/18, and concerning First and Second Mortgage Bonds issued to finance the clubhouse. For additional information relating to these records see Series 2.1: Officers Correspondence, War Tax Refund and Mortgage Bonds; and Series 8.1: National Arts Club Printed Matter, Treasurer's Reports.
Records consist of membership rolls from 1940 to 1952 (11 volumes), and rosters from 1931 to 1959. Membership rosters contain alphabetical listings by name, including address, telephone number, category of membership, and date of election, with notes on date and reason for discontinuation of membership. For additional information relating to these records see Series 2.3: Secretary and Series 8.1: National Arts Council Printed Matter, Membership Lists.
This small group of records is extant. For additional information relating to the Arts Realty Co. see Series 2.1: Officers' Correspondence, Mortgage Bonds.
This series includes various legal documents, material predating establishment of the National Arts Club, unpublished speeches delivered at the Club, information about clubhouses occupied, and histories of the organization.
Letters predating the establishment of the club include copies of letters concerning French military equipment and de Kay to J.Q.A. Ward outlining plans for founding a society of sculptors. Speeches include addresses delivered at the Annual Thanksgiving Dinner by Walter S. Logan in 1905; at a dinner in honor of Spencer Trask in 1908; by the Ambassador of Indonesia in 1953; by President Talcott at a reception in honor of the art students of New York, undated; and "The Future of the Horse" by Charles de Kay, also undated. Records on clubhouses include the lease for 156 Fifth Ave. (first office of National Arts Club); lease for 37 West 34th St., and longitudinal section of alterations to NAC, 37 West 34th St. (first clubhouse); maps of Gramercy Park; floorplan of the Grille Room showing placement of tables; and a fact sheet and miscellaneous notes concerning the Tilden Mansion (present clubhouse).
(includes lists of artwork missing from the permanent collection, governors with dates of election, and privileged societies)
(Old Dutch Grille; 7 drawings of costumes for Gramercy Park pageant by A. Garfield Learned)
Photographs of officers, governors, and life members include: John C. Agar, Charles Coburn, Bird S. Coler, Shubael Cottle, E. Irving Couse, Gates D. Fahnestock, Oscar Fehrer, J. William Fosdick, John R. Gregg, Harold Howland, Chester Loomis, John Clude Oswald, George B. Post, F.W. Ruckstuhl, and Frank R. Towle. Photographs of artists include: H.R. Bacher, Hilda Belcher, Louis Betts, Isabel Bishop, George Elmer Browne, Gordon Grant, Daniel Greene, Mauno Oittinen, Leon Volkmar, and Harry Voorhees. Photographs of others include Alistair Cooke, David Nadien, Mrs. Leonard Tyson Scully, Mrs. Alfred Chappell, and Eleanor Wendell.
The photographs in this subseries are of works of art that were, presumably, exhibited at the National Arts Club or belong to the Club's permanent collection. Works of art pictured are by artists including Edmund John Archer, C.H. Barr, Alexander Franham, Charles W. Hawthorne, Anna Hyatt Huntington, Marianthe Karaberi, La Duble, Allen G. Newman, Mauno Oittinen, Jo Paddock, and Annabelle E. Williams.
This subseries contains photographs of the exterior and the interior of the National Arts Club building.
This subseries contains photographs of various National Arts Club events. For additional photographs in this category see Series 7.8: Album, and Series 7.9: Oversize, Mural Decorations in the Galleries (Mi Careme Festival)
This subseries contains photographs of an unidentified house and of the National Arts Club medal of honor. For additional photographs in this category see Series 7.8: Album.
This subseries contains negatives that were not microfilmed.
This subseries contains 1 disbound volume containing photographs of exhibition installations from 1910 to 1917 and photographs of people and events dating from 1917 to 1921.
For additional photographs relating to mural collections in the galleries see Series 7.8: Album.
Yearbooks include the constitution, by-laws, house rules; lists of members, officers, and committees; and lists of exhibitions and lectures presented. The books are illustrated with pictures of the clubhouse, exhibitions, and events. Bulletins contain calendars of events, lists of newly elected members, and news of members. The 1909, 1914, and 1939-1940 issues include pictures of exhibition installations, the clubhouse interior including the restaurant and men's grill, social events, and prizewinning art work. Brochures contain general information for guests and prospective members. Many are illustrated with views of the building, exhibitions, and social events. Of particular interest is the 1906 brochure which contains a description of the new clubhouse with floorplans.
The subseries also contains announcements, invitations, tickets, entry blanks, and artist prospectuses; and programs relating to concerts, social activities, meetings of the Men's Open Table, and anniversary celebrations. Speeches include "Tribute to William Winter," 1909; "Social Art, an Address Delivered to The Open Table by F.W. Ruckstuhl," 1915; and "The Tilden Mansion, Home of the National Arts Club," by Charles Rollinson Lamb, 1932. Miscellaneous publications include "Forty Seven Facsimile Drawings by American Artists," by the American Artists' War Emergency Fund, 1918; "What Europe Thinks of American Art, Eminent Opinions Compiled by Henry Rankin Poore, A.N.A.," circa 1930; and printed pictures (reproductions of photographs).
Volume 8 of Club Members of New York in this subseries contains a list of club members. Additional lists can be found in Series 8.1: National Arts Club Printed Matter, Membership Lists and Yearbooks; and Series 4: Membership. Printed matter concerning other art organizations includes a general brochure of the Artist-Artisan Institute, undated, and extracts from speeches delivered at the initial meeting of the National Commission to Advance American Art, 1933. The records relating to Gramercy Park include a copy of "The Gramercy Glide," a song and dance dedicated to the National Arts Club.
This series contains seventeen scrapbooks complied by the National Arts Club. They include Annual Club Record, 1908-1912 (3 volumes); National Arts Club Printed Matter, 1898-1940 (7 volumes); and Clippings, 1912-1940 (7 volumes). Titles of NAC exhibition catalogs are noted. For additional records in this category see also Series 8: Printed Matter and Appendix A.
These scrapbooks contain a variety of NAC printed matter, including Bulletin, the yearbook, membership lists, by-laws, constitution, house rules, catalogs, invitations, and programs; clippings regarding entertainments and club social events, exhibitions, obituaries, and articles about members.
Members Fall Sketch Exhibition, Oct. 21- Nov. 7, 1908
International Exhibition of Pictorial Photography, Feb. 2-20, 1909
John W. Alexander Retrospective, Feb. 23-March 17, 1909
Fourth Annual Exhibition of Books of the Year, Nov. 3-26, 1909
Exhibition of the Former Students of the Art Students League, May 1910
First Annual Exhibition of Artist Life Members, Jan. 5-Feb. 3, 1911
Walter Shirlaw Memorial, March 8-April 5, 1911
Third Annual Exhibition of Advertising Art, Oct.20-Nov. 19, [1911?]
Group Exhibition, April 1911
First Prize Exhibition of Artist Life Members, Jan. 3-28, 1912
Otto Walter Beck, Jan. 31-Feb. 18, 1912
Etchings of E. T. Hurley, Feb. 21-March 10, 1912
National Park Pictures Collected and Exhibited by the Department of the Interior, March 13-20, 1912
Exhibition of Paintings, Embroideries and Tapestries from the Collection of Mr. Emerson McMillan, April 4-21, 1912
Exhibition of Original Dickens and Thackeray Drawings by Harry Furniss, April 24-May 4, 1912
Special Sculpture Exhibition, May 8-June 1, 1912
Portraits of Napoleon owned by John Leonard Dudley, Jan. 1903
Loan Exhibition of Pictures by Eminent American Painters, Jan. 5-16, 1904
Loan Exhibition of Pictures by American Figure Painters, March 2-15, 1904
Loan Exhibition of Pictures by Robert Henri, William Glackens, George Luks, Arthur B. Davies, and Maurice Prendergast, Jan. 5-16, 1904
Loan Exhibition of Pictures by Some Boston Artists, April 5-15, 1904
Loan Exhibition of Pictures by Old Masters, from Durand-Ruel, April 9-30, 1904
Loan Exhibition of Paintings, Water Colors and Drawings by John La Farge, May 3-14, 1904
Municipal Art Society Exhibit of Poster Designs, April 2-14, 1906
Opening Exhibition of American Paintings from the Collection of Mr. William T. Evans, Nov. 8-18, 1906
Exhibition by Some American Artists, Dec. 18, 1906-Jan. 1, 1907
Modern German Paintings from the Collection of Hugo Reisinger, Jan. 12-Feb. 1, 1907
Sixth Annual Exhibition of the Municipal Art Society of New York, March 13-31, 1907
Wood-Engravings of Timothy Cole made for Century Magazine, May, 1907
Exhibitions of Artists' Preliminary Sketches, May 1907
Fall Exhibition of Sketches by Members, Oct. 16-Nov. 16, 1907
Exhibition of Some American Artists, Dec. 18, 1906-Jan. 18, 1907
Exhibition of Artists' Preliminary Sketches, May 1907
Fall Exhibition of Sketches by Members, Oct. 16-Nov. 16, 1907
Contemporary Paintings, Feb. 1-15, 1908
Contemporary Art, Jan. 4-25, 1908
Special Exhibition of Members' Work, April 2-25, 1908
Paintings Loaned by C. C. Ruthrauff, April 25-May 15, 1908
Members' Special Exhibition, April 15-May 8, 1908
Members' Fall Sketch Exhibition, Oct. 21-Nov. 7, 1908
John W. Alexander Retrospective, Feb. 23-March 17, 1909
Fourth Annual Book Exhibition, Nov. 3-26, 1909
Louis Mark of Budapest, March 2-28, [1910?]
Alfred East of London, April 6-30, 1910
Exhibition of Former Students of the Art Students League, May 4-Oct. 10, 1910
Third Annual Exhibition of Advertising Art, Oct. 20-Nov. 1,1910
First Annual Exhibition of Artist Life Members, Jan. 5-Feb. 3, 1911
Walter Shirlaw Memorial Exhibition, March 8-April 5, 1911
Group Exhibition of Paintings by William R. Derrick, Reynolds Beal, Gifford Beal, and Frederick J. Waugh, April 1911
Special Prize Exhibition, Jan. 3-28, 1912
Otto Walter Beck, Jan. 31-Feb. 18, 1912
Etchings of E. T. Hurley, Feb. 21-March 10, 1912
Exhibition of Paintings, Embroideries and Tapestries from the Collection of Mr. Emerson McMillan, April 4-21, 1912
Sculpture Exhibition, May 8-June 1, 1912
Third Special Exhibition of the Society of Illustrators, Oct.-Nov. 1912
Exhibition of Works by the Late Frederick Warren Freer, Feb. 12-March 9, 1913
Work of Painter, Sculptor, and Architect Members, Jan. 7-Feb. 1, 1914
Contemporary Art, Feb. 5-March 7, 1914
Portraits, March 3-24, 1915
Work of Painter Members, Jan. 5-18, 1916
Forty-ninth Annual Exhibition of the American Water Color Society, Feb. 3-27, 1916
Loan Exhibition of Portraits of Academicians and Associates Selected from the Permanent Collection of the National Academy of Design, March 2-25, 1916
One Hundred American Paintings by the American Institute of Graphic Arts, March 28-April 14, 1916
Exhibition of American Prints, March 28-April 14, 1916
Members' Summer Sketch Exhibition, June-Aug. 1916
Annual Exhibition of the Work of Artist Members, Jan. 4-26, 1917
Fiftieth Annual Exhibition of the American Water Color Society, Feb. 1-24, 1917
Etchings by Contemporary Artists, under the auspices of the American Institute of Graphic Arts, Feb. 28-March 23, 1917
Paintings by Boston Artists, March 29-April 28, 1917
Members' Annual Sketch Exhibition, May-Sept. 1917
The Netherlands Exhibition, Oct. 3-31, 1917
Annual Exhibition of the Work of Artist Members, Jan. 3-Feb. 1, 1918
Fifty-first Annual Exhibition of the American Water Color Society, Feb. 7-March 1, 1918
Summer Sketch Exhibition, June-Oct. 1918
Retrospective Exhibition of Work of Artist Life Members, Jan. 8-31, 1919
Special Exhibition of the Society of Illustrators, April 2-May 3, 1919
Members' Annual Sketch Exhibition, May-Oct. 1919
Annual Exhibition of Painter and Sculptor Members, Jan. 7-30, 1920
Special Exhibition of the Society of Illustrators, March 31-April 16, 1920
Members' Summer Exhibition of Sketches and Small Sculpture, Jun-Oct. 1920
Exhibition of Art Expression by Club Members, Dec. 1-29, 1920
Annual Prize Exhibition, Jan. 5-27, 1921
First Annual Exhibition of the Art Directors Club of New York, March 2-13, 1921
Humorists Exhibition, Dec. 7-30, 1921
Annual Prize Exhibition of Painter and Sculptor Members, Jan. 5-28, 1922
Exhibition of Paintings by Charles C. Curran, Franklin deHaven, George Glenn Newell, Harry Watrous, Feb. 15-March 5, 1922
Loan Exhibition of American Paintings Owned by Club Members, April 5-30, 1922
Annual Prize Exhibition of Painter and Sculptor Members, June 5-28, 1922
Summer Exhibition of Members' Work, May-Oct. 1922
Special Exhibition of Members' Work, Dec. 6-29, 1922
Annual Prize Exhibition, Jan. 10-Feb. 10, 1923
Humorists Exhibition, Feb. 14-March 3, 1923
Group Exhibition: Hayley Lever, Leon Dabo, William R. Derrick, Charles P. Gruppe, Charles Robert Patterson, April 1923
Exhibition of Living American Etchers, Dec. 12-29, 1923
Members' Annual Exhibition, Jan. 9-Feb. 2, 1924
Exhibition of Sculpture, March 5-29, 1924
Exhibition of Books Illustrating the History of Printing, April 30-May 15, 1924
Exhibition of Art Expression by Club Members, Dec. 1-29, 1924
Members' Annual Exhibition, Jan. 7-31, 1925
Autograph Letters with Accompanying Portraits of Authors, Statesmen, Artists, etc., Feb. 23-March 7, 1925
Second Annual Exhibition of Living American Etchers, Dec. 10-27, 1924
Special Exhibition of Lithographs, Woodblocks, and Linoleum Cuts, April 8-May 9, 1925
Exhibition of Living American Etchers, Dec. 3-20, 1925
Members' Annual Exhibition, Jan. 13-Feb. 6, 1926
Special Group Exhibition, Feb. 10-27, 1926
Special Exhibition of Copies of Old Masters, March 3-27, 1926
Special Exhibition of Architecture, Sculpture, and Decorative Painting, April 7-May 7, 1926
Fifth Annual Exhibition of the Brooklyn Society of Etchers, May 1926
Exhibition of Volkbehr Collection of Incunabula, Aug. 23-Sept. 30, 1926
Summer Exhibition, 1926
Fourth Annual Exhibition of Living American Etchers, Dec. 2-22, 1926
Members' Annual Exhibition, Jan. 5-29, 1927
Exhibition and Auction of Works of Art by Artist Members, Feb. 11-27, 1927
Invited Exhibition of Distinguished American Painters, March 2-21, 1927
Fifth Annual Exhibition of Living American Etchers, Dec. 7-24, 1927
Norse Pictorial Weavings by Mrs. Berthea Aske Bergh, April 6-29, 1928
Members' Annual Exhibition, Feb. 8-29, 1928
Sixth Annual Exhibition of Living American Etchers, Feb. 13-March 8, 1928
Exhibition of Decorative Arts, March 8-31, 1928
Junior Artist Members, April 4-20, 1928
Members' Annual Exhibition, Jan. 8-Feb. 1, 1929
Loan Exhibition of Italian Primitives from the Collection of Richard M. Hurd, March 1929
Junior Artist Members, April 3-26, 1929
Summer Exhibition of Painter Life Members, May 1-Oct. 1, 1929
Exhibition of Decorative Arts, Dec. 4-26, 1929
Members' Annual Exhibition, Jan. 8-Feb. 1, 1930
Seventh Annual Exhibition of Living American Etchers, Feb. 5-28, 1930
Junior Artist Members, March 5-28, 1930
Members' Exhibition, April 16-Sept. 30, 1930
Eighth Annual Exhibition of Living American Etchers, Dec. 3-26, 1930
New York Water Color Club Exhibition, April 1-25, 1931
Gramercy Park Centenary Celebration Exhibition, May 2-29, 1931
Members' Annual Exhibition, Jan. 7-Feb. 6, 1931
Junior Artists, March 4-27, 1931
Members' Exhibition, June 3-Oct. 1, 1931
Members' Exhibition, Jan. 6-13, 1932
Exhibition of Drawings by Artist Members, Feb. 3-27, 1932
Junior Artist Members, March 2-26, 1932
Exhibition and Auction of Works of Art by Artist Members, March 13-April 15, 1932
Exhibition by a Group of New York Art Schools, April 20-30. 1932
Members' Exhibition, May 4-Oct. 1, 1932
Members' Annual Exhibition, Jan. 4-27, 1933
Junior Artist Members, March 1-31, 1933
Society of Illustrators, April 5-22, 1933
Members Exhibition, May 3-Oct. 1, 1933
Memorial Exhibition, Group of Former Painter and Sculptor Members: Max Bohm, Emil Carlsen, Charles Hawthorne, Robert Henri, Karl Bitter, Solon Borglum, Daniel Chester French, Edmund Quinn, Jan. 31-March 2, 1934
Junior Artist Members, March 7-29, 1934
Thirty-second Annual Exhibition of the Society of Illustrators, April 4-27, 1934
Members' Exhibition of Small Paintings and Sculpture, May 2-30, 1934
Members' Annual Exhibition, Jan. 9-Feb. 1, 1935
Members' No-Jury Exhibition, Feb. 6-March 2, 1935
Junior Artist Members, March 6-29, 1935
Loan Exhibition of Works of Art owned by Artist Members, April 3-27, 1935
Members' Annual Exhibition, Jan. 8-31, 1936
Junior Artist Members, March 4-27, 1936
Exhibition of Neighboring Art Organizations, April 1-May 1, 1936
First Annual Exhibition of Pictorial Photography, by Pictorial Forum, May 6-30, 1936
Members' Annual Exhibition, Jan. 6-29, 1937
Exhibition by the Younger Artists Group, March 3-26, 1937
Second Exhibition of Neighboring Art Organizations, March 31-April 28, 1937
Members' Exhibition of Small Paintings, in Black and White, Dec. 8-25, 1937
Members' Annual Exhibition, Jan. 12-Feb., 1938
Third Exhibition of Neighboring Art Organizations, March 14-April 2, 1938
Exhibition of the Younger Artists Group, April 6-20, 1938
Exhibition of a Group of Former Painter and Sculptor Members, Jan. 12-27, 1939
Members' Annual Exhibition, Feb. 1-25, 1939
Flower Paintings, March 1-31, 1939
Fourth Annual Exhibition of Neighboring Art Organizations, April 5-21, 1939
Annual Junior Members' Exhibition, May 10-24, 1939
Selected Works by Deceased Artists from the National Arts Club's Permanent Collection, June-Oct. 1939
Special Exhibition of the Paintings of Junior Members, Oct. 18-28, 1939
Christmas Sale of Paintings, Drawing, Photographs, and Sculpture by Junior Members, Dec. 4-25, 1939
Members' Annual Exhibition, Jan. 3-19, 1940
Distinguished Exhibition of the Work of Living American Painters, Non-Members, Jan. 24-Feb. 9, 1940
Ceramics, Feb. 14-29, 1940
Annual Junior Members' Exhibition, April 3-19, 1940
Flower and Still Life Paintings, April 24-May 3, 1940
In addition to clippings, some volumes in this subseries also contain a small number of photographs and catalogs of commercial galleries in New York City.
Records relating to a possible demonstration and exhibition of a Synchroma machine at the National Collection of Fine Arts. Correspondence is between Adelyn Breeskin and Jan Mulhert of the museum's 20th century department and inventors Stanley Elliott and Honore Guilbeau. Photographs, descriptive statements, and clippings are also included.
The records of the National Society of Mural Painters measure 13.1 linear feet and date from 1895 to circa 2007. The activities of the society are documented through administrative files, membership files, correspondence, committee files, exhibition and competition files, artist files, financial and legal records, printed material, a scrapbook, and photographic materials.
Administrative files include meeting minutes and agendas, historical information, and newsletter drafts, and the organization's constitution and by-laws. Membership files contain correspondence with members about their applications and acceptance or denial of membership, member voting ballots, and lists of members. General correspondence is with artists, members, organizations, universities, and federal commissions, and documents a wide varity of NSMP activities; additional correspondence is scattered throughout other series. Correspondence is with Charles Baskerville, Arthur Covey, Allyn Cox, Dean Fausett, Ruth Fortel, Edward Lanning, Everett Molinari, Jack Stewart, and Helen Tredwell, as well as with the American Federation of Arts, the Commission of Fine Arts on War Memorials, Fine Arts Federation, and the U. S. Capitol Historical Society.
Committee files document the work of various NSMP standing and ad hoc committees. Exhibition and competition files include correspondence, photographs, catalogs, itineraries, and printed materials for the NSMP's 1976 U.S. Bicentennial celebration projects, including the "Freedom Murals," "Caravan of Freedom," and "Momentous Events in American History." Additional files document the Red Cross Canteen Project, Federal Art Project, the Municipal Art Society exhibition in 1940, New York City subway murals, and other competitions and public art mural projects.
Artist files primarily date from the 1960s through the 1990s and often include biographies, resumes, correspondence, and photographs of works of art. Financial and legal records include the NSMP treasurer's files, ledgers, and miscellany. Also found in the records are printed materials; a mixed media scrapbook dating from 1923-1935; photographs of meetings, events, exhibitions, and works of art; photo collages of members with examples of their works of art. There are also lantern slides of Francis D. Millet in his studio and with his murals, and of J. Scott Williams with his art work.
Administrative files contain material regarding the society's activities, founding, and history and include meeting minutes and agendas, drafts of newsletters, constitution and by-laws, and other miscellaneous documents and one videocassette. Files labeled miscellaneous likely contain duplicates of other material documented throughout the collection.
Found is correspondence relating to the application, acceptance, and decline of membership from 1916 to 1954 and the 1990s. Also found are lists of contact information for members and voting history and ballots. Correspondence about membership applications and acceptance decisions are found for many artists, including George Biddle, Edward Bruce, Kenyon Cox, Allyn Cox, Philip Evergood, William Gropper, Stefan Hirsch, Tom LaFarge, Geoffrey Norman, Violet Oakley, and Ernest Peixotto, among many others.
Correspondence documents a wide variety of general activities of the NSMP and is with artists, members, organizations, universities, and federal commissions' additional correspondence is scattered throughout other series. Correspondence is with Charles Baskerville, Arthur Covey, Allyn Cox, Dean Fausett, Ruth Fortel, Edward Lanning, Everett Molinari, Jack Stewart, and Helen Tredwell, as well as with the American Federation of Arts, the Commission of Fine Arts on War Memorials, Fine Arts Federation, and the U. S. Capitol Historical Society.
Committee files contain scattered correspondence, reports, lists, printed material, and memoranda documenting the work of standing and special committees.
The bulk of this series consists of material relating to the three NSMP projects celebrating the 1976 U.S. Bicentennial, including the "Freedom Murals", "The Caravan of Freedom", and "Momentous Events in American History". Files include correspondence, printed material, plans, itineraries, scattered financial documents, applications, and some photographs documenting planning, execution of work by members, fundraising, and publicity. Included is an audio cassette recording entitled "Momentous Events at Nabisco." A file for the Mural Night Forum includes a letter and typed remarks given by Elizabeth McCausland. There is a videocassette recording of a dedication of a mural by David Garrison in Fort Madison, Iowa.
Artist files may include resumes, correspondence, photographs of works of art. The bulk of the material dates from the 1960s to the 1990s. Earlier material consists of general artist biographies. Files are found for Robert P. Archer, Tom Capuccio, Peggy Delport, Dean Fausett, Michael Glickman, Robert J. Harding, Frank Mason, James Penny, and Elias River, among others.
This series consists primarily of the treasurers' files containing correspondence regarding the payment of dues and financial reports. Other materials found here include ledgers and cash books, the majority of which are organized by member and note the payment date of dues received. Banking records consist of permission forms noting which officers are allowed access to the society's bank accounts. Legal records include a draft of an agreement and records relating to changing the name of the society in 1937.
Exhibition catalogs and announcements, informational brochures and pamphlets, newsletters, and a portfolio of members' works were published by National Society of Mural Painters. Clippings concern the society's members and its activities.
One mixed media scrapbook contains correspondence, clippings, invitations, exhibition announcements, and some reproductions of works of art.
Photographic materials consists of scattered photographs, transparencies, lantern slides, and photo collages of members, artwork, members with their artwork, meetings, exhibitions, and events. The photo collages typically include a photo of the artist and examples of their work. Also found are lantern slides, mostly of works of art, and of Francis D. Millett in his studio and with his murals and of J. Scott Williams with his art. A list of the lantern slides is found within the records, but it is unclear whether the list corresponds to all or some of the lantern slides.
Records kept by George C. Seybolt in his capacity as Chairman of the National Museum Service Board.
Photographs, scrapbooks, printed material, correspondence and business records.
UNMICROFILMED MATERIAL: 4 photograph albums, glass negatives and photographs of works of art by society members; exhibition records; bank records and check stubs; scrapbooks and clippings on the New York Architectural League; and books on Karl Bitter and John Quincy Adams Ward.
REEL D132: 414 photographs and reproductions of sculpture by society members. Information on the back of photographs includes artist, title, location, dimensions, date, price and material.
REEL NJ1: Complete run of National Sculpture Review, the quarterly publication put out by the National Sculpture Society from Dec. 1951 to Spring 1962.
REELS 488-494: Financial and general correspondence; financial records, ledgers, cash books, tax records and check books; a catalog distribution book; publications and clippings; War Memorials Project material; a constitution, membership lists, minutes and an exhibitors' roster.
REEL 3097: Lantern slides of the work of 262 sculptors and views of New York City.
REEL 3161: Mimeographed copies of minutes of the Council of the National Sculpture Society, 1951-1952, kept by Katherine Lane Weems, Chairman of the Library and Research Committee, 1951, and Recording Secretary, 1952.
Correspondence, photographs, clippings, magazines and statements by 20th century artists on their works bought for the Roland P. Murdock Collection of the Wichita Art Museum, Wichita, Kansas, by Navas.
Artists represented include: Peggy Bacon, Louis Bouche, William Brice, Charles E. Burchfield, Paul Burlin, Kenneth Callahan, John S. Copley, Russell Cowles, John S. Curry, Stuart Davis, Jose de Creeft, Adolf Dehn, Walt Dehner, Charles Demuth, Arthur Dove, Guy Pène du Bois, Thomas Eakins, William Glackens, Raphael Gleitsmann, George Grosz, John E. Heliker, Winslow Homer, Edward Hopper, Alexander R. James, Jonah Kinigstein, Frederick D. Kirsch, Walt Kuhn, Yasuo Kuniyoshi, Gaston Lachaise, James Lechay, John Marin, Reginald Marsh, Henry E. Mattson, Carl Morris, George L. K. Morris, Roy Moyer, Charles Oscar, James Penney, Anne Poor, Henry V. Poor, Albert Pinkham Ryder, Henry E. Schnakenberg, Ben Shahn, Charles Sheeler, John Sloan, Houghton C. Smith, Elizabeth Sparhawk-Jones, Franklin C. Watkins, Max Weber, Clara M. Williamson, Karl Zerbe, and William Zorach.
Letters, writings, business records, sketches and printed material.
Reel 3909: Letters from Neagle to Mary Sully Neagle, his children and a draft of a letter to Thomas Sully, and others; two journals kept by Neagle, "History of Painting, 1817" and "Lessons in Landscape Painting, 1827"; loose sheets of autobiographical matters such as "Thomas Sully's palette," an 1850 cashbook; a sketch of John Brown by Neagle; and a lease cosigned by George Catlin, 1822.
Reel 3910: Notebooks kept by Neagle including "Hints for a painter with regard to his study, 1837," "a volume containing discussions of artists such as Titian and Raphael, and another providing technical information on cleaning pictures and recipes.
Two letters, August 9 and August 24, 1983 from Adja Yunkers to Nebenzahl regarding a film, "Vermillion Editions: Right to Print," 1984, produced by Nebenzahl at the Minneapolis Institute of Art. Nebenzahl asked Yunkers to be in the film. In the letters, Yunkers declines the invitation but instead fills out a questionnaire about his life and career for use in the film. He describes his work as a printmaker and his artistic partnership with printer Steven M. Andersen, founder of Vermillion Editions Limited.
The papers of New York painter Alice Neel measure 1.0 linear foot and date from 1933 to 1983. The bulk of the collection documents the last fifteen years of Neel's career as an artist. Found within the papers are letters from galleries, museums, and art organizations; writings and notes by Neel; exhibition catalogs, clippings, and other printed material; and photographs depicting Neel, exhibitions, and her artwork.
Letters are from galleries, museums, and art organizations and primarily concern Neel's work and art related activities. Also found are holiday and birthday cards from friends as well as fan mail. Included among the letters from 1977 are two color snapshots of Neel.
This series includes artists' statements, Neel's acceptance speech for her degree, her Bloomsburg State College lecture, a one page reminiscence on Anton Refregier, and miscellaneous notes.
Printed material primarily document's Neels late career from 1970 to 1983. Included are announcements and exhibition catalogs for solo and group shows, newspaper and magazine articles about Neel, and scattered press releases, flyers, and event brochures. Also found is a journal, Mother Number Six, which includes reproductions of Neel's portraits of Joe Gould.
Found in this series are eight photograph portraits of Alice Neel, including one of her in her studio in 1983, and photographs of exhibition openings at the Maxwell Gallery and the Graham Gallery. Photographs of these openings include her colleagues John Koch and Raphael Soyer. Photograph stills for the movie "Pull My Daisy" depict Neel and others. Also found are photographs of Neel's artwork and slides of an exhibition installation at Akron Art Institute.
The papers of LeRoy Neiman measure approximately 70.5 linear feet and date from 1938 to 2005. The collection includes biographical materials, correspondence, project files, printed material and artifacts documenting the career of the American painter LeRoy Neiman.
Biographical material pertains to the artist's family, military service, education and teaching experience and representing galleries and publishers and includes artist biographies, awards, distinctions, and membership information.
Correspondence includes personal and business correspondence as well as collections of cards and literature on other artists, Neiman's notes and jottings, art work by children, and office records.
Project files document specific projects or art events in which Neiman was involved, including commissions, promotions, collaborations, serigraph printings, and publications.
Printed material includes newspapers, magazines, catalogs, fliers, invitations, brochures, press releases, film scripts and small posters.
Artifacts include three-dimensional items, clothing, souvenirs and LeRoy Neiman paraphernalia.
This series contains information pertaining to Neiman's family, military service, education and teaching experience, and the major galleries and publishers that have represented him. The series also includes artist biographies, awards and distinctions and membership information.
This subseries contains information and paraphernalia regarding the artist's family, childhood, military, education and memberships, as well as artist biographies, awards, certificates, and identification. All correspondence from family members is included in this series. Files are arranged alphabetically by topic and then chronologically.
This subseries contains information on the primary galleries and publishers representing Neiman throughout his career. Biographical information concerning Hammer Galleries and Knoedler & Co. includes information and articles about the Hammer family and Maury Leibowitz, the proprietors of Knoedler & Co. For more information on the artist's primary representing galleries and publishers, please see Appendix B, which gives a detailed history of these matters. Please note that files on specific exhibitions at these galleries are filed among the chronological project files of Series 3.1 and the dated files of Series 4.1 and are listed in the Index under "exhibitions".
This series contains personal and business correspondence, as well as collections of cards and literature on other artists, notes and jottings by Neiman and artwork by children.
Series 2.1 is composed of dated files of business and personal correspondence and includes contracts.
This subseries contains collections of correspondence pertaining to significant persons, groups, and organizations for whom there is a sizeable amount of correspondence that may span a period of several years.
Series 2.3 contains letters from, and literature on, other artists, as well as Mr. Neiman's jotted notes on other artists.
Each project file found in this series contains material pertaining to a particular event, or series of events, in the artist's career. Records document commissions, exhibitions, publications, and promotional, foundation, charity and gallery events.
Series 3.1 contains all project files, excluding those for Neiman's own publications which can be found in 3.2: Neiman Publications. Exhibitions files are included here as exhibitions throughout Neiman's career have typically been associated with larger events and projects.
This series consists of printed material in which the artist's work or name appears including newspapers, magazines, catalogs, fliers, invitations, publicity brochures, press releases, film scripts, small posters, and other miscellaneous items.
Magazines in which the artist's work appeared only sporadically can be found either in 4.1: Dated Files, or in a project file in Series 3: Project Files. Specific magazine titles can be searched for in the Index.
This subseries contains contains chronologically arranged printed material.
This subseries contains collections of magazines in which the artist's work appears regularly over the course of several years. The collections are listed in alphabetical order and are arranged chronologically thereafter.
This series consists of three-dimensional items and non-print items such as clothing, LeRoy Neiman paraphernalia, and souvenirs.
(menus, napkins, drink stirrers and a matchbook from this restaurant in California, which uses Mr. Neiman's name and displays his serigraphs, but was created without his knowledge or participation, as there is no copyright on his name or image)
(souvenir canister from third annual dinner, bears reproduction of LeRoy Neiman drawing on lid)
(tray of changeable watch faces bearing miniature reproductions of Neiman paintings)
Letters received, 1928-1984; visitors' registers, 1975, 1982; price list for 1975 retrospective; 27 pages of pen and ink sketches and 8 loose sketches; 3 sketchbooks; Christmas cards by Nelson; photographs of Nelson, his home, his studio and his work; 2 scrapbooks of exhibition notices; notes and writings; miscellaneous certificates; exhibition catalogs; announcements; and clippings.
The papers of illustrator, xerography artist, filmmaker, and educator Esta Nesbitt measure 10.05 linear feet and date from circa 1942-1981. Found within the papers are biographical material, correspondence, writings, xerography research files, project and exhibition files, and printed material. Much of the collection relates to Nesbitt's xerography art work. Additionally, the collection includes motion picture film and sound recordings related to her film and performance work.
Nesbitt's primary collaborators, correspondents, and subjects of investigation are not concentrated in any one series but rather recur throughout the collection. Nesbitt worked closely with Anibal Ambert, Merle English at Xerox Corporation, and the Whitney Museum of American Art. She read and wrote about the accrual of information, Albert Einstein, Asian religion and philosophy, communication, computer technology, documentation practices, energy, psychology, Samuel Beckett, and states of consciousness. Chinese characters and an image of Allen Ginsberg appear repeatedly in Nesbitt's works. Subjects of study and experimentation include 3M and Kodak technologies, color, film, morphology, participatory and performance art, shadows, sound, street works, xerography, and Xerox machines.
Biographical material revolves mostly around Nesbitt's work as a professor at Parsons School of Design. Records include Nesbitt's resumé, an exhibition history, motion picture film of the inside of her studio, and teaching files.
Correspondence contains personal letters from family members, and professional correspondence with fellow artists and employees of Xerox Corporation. Much of the series is correspondence between Nesbitt and fellow artists Alan Leder, David Lyle, and R.E. Wood, and is philosophical in nature. Correspondence with Xerox Corporation documents her relationship with the corporation between 1970 and 1972, when they underwrote her experiments in xerography.
Writings include illustrated journals, journals, notebooks, loose notes, and transcripts. The content of the writings varies widely throughout the series and includes artwork, sketches, diagrams, annotated clippings, transcripts of conversations, Nesbitt's writings about her dreams and family, details about her daily life, and notes about artists' materials, film, and sound.
Xerography Research Files document Nesbitt's experiments with xerography, which she often refers to in her papers as "Xerox Xplore." Contents include Nesbitt's definitions of xerography terms; Xerox equipment brochures; clippings; xerography studies; notebooks about Nesbitt's plans, work with color, and xerography study details; and slides and transparencies of completed xerography prints.
Project and Exhibition Files consist of a variety of documentation related to Nesbitt's books, exhibitions, films, performance and participatory art, and other projects. This series contains the bulk of the collection's motion picture films and sound recordings. The film and sound performance piece titled "Everyman as Anyman, or Putting On, On, On, On, On," the piece Walk Up --Tape On, the film "Light Times 499," and exhibitions of Nesbitt's xerography work and her series of work called Shadow Paintings are the most prominent subjects of the series.
Printed Material includes books, clippings, magazines, exhibition announcements, catalogs, and press releases about Nesbitt's interests, artwork, exhibitions, and galleries that exhibited her work. Some of the material is annotated.
Biographical materials include Nesbitt's resume, correspondence, photographic and printed material, and motion picture film. Most of the material revolves around Parsons School of Design, where Nesbitt taught. Correspondence regarding the National Student Strike and Anti-War Exhibit, created to illustrate the students' opposition to the Vietnam War, includes correspondence between Parsons School of Design and President Richard Nixon. Nesbitt's studio is documented in this series on two reels of Super 8 film.
Box (top): my studio (color) Esta Mar 1969. Leader: 3/9/69 Esta (my studio) 1 reel 1 studio
Note on film box: My Studio (color) Esta, March 1969. Other side of film box: My Studio 2 Esta. Head leader: Roll 2 3/9/69, My Studio II Esta Nesbitt.
Oversized material housed in Box 11, Folder 1.
Oversized material from Box 1, Folder 7.
Oversized material from Box 1, Folder 11.
Correspondence includes letters and memos between personal friends and professional colleagues and Nesbitt. Many letters and memos include attachments, such as artwork, annotated clippings, and letters. Letters written by Nesbitt are drafts.
Correspondents in the Personal and Professional folder include Nesbitt, Edmund Carpenter, Seymour Lipton, Mara Nesbitt, Perry Nesbitt, Saul Nesbitt, Carla and Thom Perry, The Art Center of Waco, National Collection of Fine Arts (Smithsonian), University of California Berkeley, and Westbroadway Gallery. Topics of discussion include life updates, Chinese philosophy, xerography, Nesbitt's projects ("Everyman as Anyman, or Putting On, On, On, On, On," "Light Times 499," Walk up-Tape on, "Xerox Xplore") and exhibitions ("Esta Nesbitt: Xerography Prints," "Magic Machines").
Correspondence between Nesbitt, Alan Leder, David Lyle, and R.E. Wood covers a wide range of topics, including Lyle, William Carlos Williams, T.S. Eliot, Mike Weaver, Allen Ginsberg, Paterson NJ, energy and nature, mathematics, and data. Correspondence with Lyle also includes the subjects of Xerox Corporation, xerography, exhibition "Xerography: Extensions in Art," 3M Co, and mandala. Much of the writing is philosophical in nature and includes annotated letters, articles, and clippings.
Xerox Corporation correspondence covers Nesbitt's relationship with and work at Xerox, additional funding possibilities with New School for Social Research, and a New York Times review. Nesbitt's primary contact at Xerox was Merle English.
Oversized material housed in OV 14.
Oversized material from Box 1 Folder 14.
Oversized material from Box 1 Folder 15.
Oversized material from Box 1 Folder 16.
Writings are in the form of bound and unbound journals, notebooks, and loose notes. Illustrations, clippings, articles, journal entries, and poetry are interspersed throughout the series, with personal and professional content mixed together. Titles listed below were derived from Nesbitt's handwritten titles on the journal covers.
Illustrated Journals contain artwork, sketches, diagrams, annotated clippings, and written entries. Subjects are mainly painting techniques, materials, and ideas. Other subjects touched on include Chinese characters, calligraphy, shadow paintings, the future of art, energy, morphs, memory, and meaning. The transformation of art using different techniques and materials is also a common theme. Projects discussed include the 1972-1973 projects Balls, Flower, and Big Foot.
Many of these subjects are also subjects of Nesbitt's journals, which also include entries of a personal nature dealing with dreams, Nesbitt's family, life, death, and reality. Other subjects include Chinese characters and scrolls, and Samuel Beckett's characters Molloy and Malone. Also, notes related to phone calls, appointments, travel, project tasks, teaching, family life, and funding concerns are found in her journals.
Notebooks contain notes and clippings related to artists' materials, religion, Chinese philosophy and civilization, changes in consciousness, psychology, film techniques, transmission of sound, and documentation practices. The notebook labeled "Film and Slide Techniques and Ideas" also contains ideas, lists, diagrams, and test notes. Projects "Everyman as Anyman, or Putting On, On, On, On, On," burnt Xeroxes, and stair patterns are also mentioned.
Transcripts include notes and conversations transcribed from tapes. Topics include xerography, project "Xerox Xplore," exhibition "Xerography: Extensions in Art," and copyrights and permissions for publication. The original recordings from which the transcripts were made are not part of the collection.
Oversized material housed in Box 12, Folder 2.
Oversized material housed in Box 12, Folder 1.
Oversized material for Folders 25 and 26 housed in OV 15.
Oversized material housed in OV 15.
Oversized material for Folder 3 housed in OV 15.
Oversized material from Box 1, Folder 22.
Oversized material from Box 1, Folder 23.
Oversized material from Box 1, Folders 25 and 26.
Oversized material from Box 1, Folder 29.
Oversized material from Box 2, Folder 3.
Xerography Research Files include brochures, clippings, notebooks, loose notes, photographic slides and transparencies, and xerography studies. "Xerox Xplore," what Nesbitt called her experiments with xerography, is the prominent subject of the series. However, the series also contains references to many other projects, people, equipment, materials, and techniques. Annotations exist throughout the series.
Brochures are for specific Xerox machine models, referred to throughout the series, and paper types. Clippings concern color, equipment, tools, and techniques related to film, photography, xerography, computer art, computerized communications, computer and video animation, copyrights, and patents.
Notebooks contain lists, ideas, plans, diagrams, sketches, artwork, handwritten tape and conversation transcripts, phone messages, inventories, printed materials, reading notes, and correspondence. Titles listed below were derived from Nesbitt's handwritten titles appearing on the covers. Notes mainly concern xerography materials, equipment, techniques, and processes, including the possibilities of working with color. Her work with color is most prevalent in the notebooks labeled: "Xerox Think-Bank Color," "Xerox Xplore 3 Chromacapsagraphics," and "Xerox Xplore Chroma-Capsagraphy." In addition to bound notebooks, there are two folders with loose notes, and some of the notebooks were unbound for preservation purposes.
Xerography studies contain photocopied images as well as source images and materials for Nesbitt's xerography experiments. Notes regarding materials, equipment, techniques, processes, and dates of creation are located on the back of images and loose notes between images. Inventory charts, located in the notebook labeled "Xerox Xplore 2," document many of the prints created for the xerography experiments with a short description of specific studies, date of creation, size, equipment, and technique used.
Oversized material housed in OV 16.
Oversized material housed in Box 11, Folder 2.
Contains material removed from notebook in Box 3, Folder 4.
Oversized material for Folder 12 housed in Box 11, Folder 3.
Oversized material housed in Box 11, Folder 4.
Oversized material housed in Box 11, Folder 5.
Oversized material housed in Box 11, Folder 6.
Oversized material for Folder 7 housed in Box 11, Folder 6.
Oversized material housed in Box 11, Folder 7.
Oversized material housed in Box 11, Folder 6.
Oversized material housed in Box 11, Folder 8.
Oversized material from Box 2, Folder 27.
Oversized material from Box 3, Folder 12.
Oversized material from Box 3, Folder 13.
Oversized material from Box 3, Folder 14.
Oversized material from Box 3, Folders 29 and 30.
Oversized material from Box 3, Folder 34.
Oversized material from Box 4, Folder 7.
Oversized material from Box 4, Folder 26.
Oversized material from Box 4, Folder 22.
Oversized material from Box 4, Folders 27 and 28.
Oversized material from Box 2, Folder 26.
The Projects and Exhibitions series contains a variety of materials related to Nesbitt's books, exhibitions, films, performance and participatory art, and other projects. The bulk of material in the series documents Nesbitt's major multimedia works, and her Xerography and Shadow Paintings exhibitions. Types of documentation are listed under the project or exhibition title, and include correspondence, annotated clippings, microfilm, notes, sketches and diagrams, tape transcripts, motion picture film, sound recordings, photographs, publicity, and source material.
The piece Walk up-Tape on is documented with notes, photographs, and xerography. The one reel of microfilm contains documentation mostly related to Walk up-Tape on. Many, but not all, of the documents reproduced in the microfilm are found in the collection.
Nesbitt's film and sound performance piece titled "Everyman as Anyman, or Putting On, On, On, On, On," was a multichannel projection of silent, super 8 mm films projected with as many as five stationary and moving film projectors alongside multilayered sound recordings. The motion picture film and sound recordings consist of 26 reels of Super 8 film and four sound tape reels. 23 of the film reels are numbered and one is labeled simply "GOD;" note that there is no reel 2 in the collection and the reel labeled GOD has two duplicate reels. Visual content is a wide array of abstract imagery, text, solid color frames, artwork, and split screen imagery, and ranges from three to five second shots to much longer shots. The sound track contains electronic music and spoken word recordings. Sound track reels consist of three reels of preliminary recordings and one master reel, which contains elements of the preliminary recordings compiled onto a single 2-channel track. Additional details about the content of the film and sound reels can be found in the notebooks for this project, and details about how the reels were projected for various performances are found in the notebook labeled "Everyman Projections." Source material for "Everyman" consists of words written on a variety of material, including paper towels, toilet paper, index cards, and foam boards.
The film "Light Times 499," created with Anibal Ambert, consists of a sequence of xerographic prints from Nesbitt's serial work of the same title. Film and sound recordings consist of two reels of 16mm film and one sound cassette. One of the film reels contains splices, and the other appears to be a print of the spliced film. The cassette is labeled "preliminary soundtrack."
The series also contains documentation about the film "Folding/Struck," but not the film itself.
Various materials related to exhibitions document the creation of works through the installation of exhibition to the exhibition itself. Exhibitions of Nesbitt's xerography work include "Electrostatic Structures: 'New Morphs,'" "Electroworks," "Esta Nesbitt: Xerography Prints," and "Xerography --Extensions in Art." Other exhibitions include the participatory exhibition "1000 Empty 49.3 Grams: A participatory environment" and Nesbitt's exhibition of Shadow Paintings.
Other projects documented in this series include a book entitled Poems of War and Revolution, a manuscript entitled "Sea of Movement," and an illustrated journal entitled "Shadow and Pathways."
Oversized material housed in OV 17.
Oversized material for Folder 3 housed in OV 17.
Oversized material for Folder 9 housed in OV 18. Oversized material for Folders 13 and 14 housed in OV 17.
Note on film box: Reel #1 Mar 21/69. On other side of film box: #1. Note on plastic film box: Everyman #1 Mar 21/69 (4 of 24) Digitized 2014/16949 4.42. Head leader: Reel 1 Mar 28/69 Everyman as Anyman/nutty on on on on. Nesbitt Assoc. LTD Huemark 4/17/96 #5533.
Note on film box: Everyman as Anyman #3 Mar 21/69. On other side of film box: Mar 21.69 #3. Note on film can: Everyman #3 Mar 21/69 (2 of 24 reels) Digitized 2014/ 16949 4.41. Head leader: Reel 3 Mar 21/69 Everyman as Anyman/putting on on on on Reel #3.
Note on film box: Everyman #4 Mar 21/69. Other side of film box: #4 Mar 21.69. Note on plastic film box: Everyman #4 Mar 21/69 (3 of 24 reels) Digitized 2014/16949 4.42. Head leader: Reel #4 Everyman Mar 21/69 Everyman as Anyman/Putting on on on on Reel 4. Tail leader: Reel - 4 - Tail.
Note on film box: Everyman #5 Mar 21/69. Other side of film box: #5 Mar 21/69. Note on plastic film box: Everyman #5 Mar 21/69 (4 of 24 reels) Digitized 2014/16949 4.42. Head leader: Reel #5 3/21/69 Everyman as Anyman/Putting on on on on Reel 5. Tail leader: Reel - 5 - Tail.
Note on film box: Everyman as Anyman #6. Other side of film box: #6 Mar 21/69. Note on plastic film box: Everyman #6 Mar 21/69 (5 of 24 reels) Digitized 2014/16949 4.42. Head leader: Reel #6 Everyman as Anyman/Putting on on on on #6 March/21/69 Reel 6 and 7 should go together #6. Tail leader: Reel - 6 - Tail.
Note on film box: Everyman as Anyman #7. Other side of film box: #7 Mar 21/69. Note on plastic film box: Everyman #7 Mar 21/69 (6 of 24 reels) Digitized 2014/16949 5.1. Head leader: #7 Mar 21/69 Everyman as Anyman/putting on on on on. Tail leader: Reel - 7 - Tail.
Note on film box: Everyman as Anyman #8. On other side: #8 Mar 21/65. Note on plastic film box: Everyman #8 Mar 21/69 (7 of 24) Digitized 2014/16949 5.2. Head leader: 3/21/69 Everyman as Anyman/pulling on on on on Reel #8.
Note on film box: Everyman as Anyone #9. Other side of film box: #9 Mar 21/69. Note on plastic film box: Everyman #9 Mar 21/69 (8 of 24) Digitized 2014/16949 5.2. Head leader: #9 Mar 21/69 Everyman As Anyman/Putting on on on on Reel 9. Tail leader: Reel - 9 - Tail.
Note on film box: Everyman as Anyman #10. Other side on film box: #10 Mar 21/69. Note on plastic film box: Everyman #10 Mar 21/69 (9 of 24) Digitized 2014/16949 5.3. Head leader: #10 Eeryman as Anyman/Putting on on on on #10 Mar 21/69. Tail leader: Reel - 10 - Tail.
Note on film box: # 11. On other side of film box: keep w. no #11 Mar 21/69. Note on plastic film box: Everyman #11 Mar 21/69 (10 of 24) Digitized 2014/16949 5.3. Head leader: Reel #11 Mar 21/69 Everyman as Anyman putting on on on on #11. Tail leader: Huemark 4-17-69 #5553 - Tail - 1 - Nesbitt Assoc. LTD - Reel - 11 - Tail.
Note on film box: Everyman as Anyman #12. On the other side of film box: Keep w 11. #12 Mar 21/69. Note on plastic film box: Everyman #12 Keep w #11 Mar 21/69 (11 of 24) Digitized 2014/16949 5.4. Head leader: #12 Mar 21/69 Everyman as Anyman or putting on on on on #12. Tail leader: Reel - 12 - Tail.
Note on film box: Everyman as Anyman #13 (title again) Mar 21/69. Other side of film box: Everyman #13 Pink title collage w. letterhead red/acetate etched. Blue writing on plantubry. Note on plastic film box: Everyman #13 (Titles again) Mar 25/69 (12 of 24 reels) Digitized 2014/16949 5.4 Head leader: #13 Mar 25 Everyman as Anyman/Putting on on on on. #13. Tail leader: Reel - 13 - Tail.
Note on film box: #14 color tests and words like slids! Other side of film box: Color tests L4. Note on plastic film box: #14 Color Tests #16 Color Tests (13 of 24 reels) Digitized 2014/16949 5.5 Head leader: #14 color and b+w xeroxes. Tail leader: Reel - 14 - Tail.
Note on box: #15 color tests. Other side of box: Color tests reel #15. Note on plastic film box: #15 Color Tests (14 of 24 reels) Digitized 2014/16949 5.5. Head leader: #15 Apr 69 color tests Everyman #15. Tail leader: Tail - Reel - 15.
Note on box: Reel #16 Everyman IA, Color #16 IA. Other side of box: Reel#16. Note on plastic box: Everyman #16 #1A, Color Students, (15 of 24 reels) Digitized 2014/16949 5.6. Head leader: #16 (IA) Mar 69 Students on Everyman#16 (IA). Tail leader: Reel - 16 Tail.
Note on box: #17 Everyman Reel #17 #2B Color #2B Students. Other side of box: #17 #2B. Note on plastic box: Everyman #17 #2B Color Students (16 of 24 reels) Digitized 2014/16949 5.6 Head leader: Mar 69 #17 (2 B) Student in Everyman #17 2 B. Tail leader: Reel - 17 - Tail.
Note on box: Everyman #18 #3C Students. Other side of box: #18 3C. Note on plastic film box: Everyman #18 #3c Students (17 of 24 reels) Digitized 2014/16949 5.7 Head leader:#18 3C Mar 69 Students on Everyman #18 3C. Tail leader: Reel - 18 - Tail.
Note on film box: #19 B+W film from notebook. Everyman #19 B+W. Other side of film box: #19 B+W film. Note on plastic film box: Everyman #19 B+W film from notebook (18 of 24 reels) Digitized 2014/16949 5.7. Note included with film: I didn't make duplicates of these! EN. Leader: #19 B+W Everyman from Notebook. Small piece of film: handwriting on notebook paper with red number 17 over handwriting.
Note on film box: Film Students #20 Work for Parsons. Other side of film box: Students Work reel #20. Note on plastic film box: #20 #4D Film of Students Work for Parsons, (19 of 24 reels) Digitized 2014/16949. Head leader: Apr 69 Student work reel #20
Note on film box: #21. Other side of film box: Film of student work for Parsons Reel #21. Note on plastic film box: #21 #5E film of students for for Parsons (20 of 24 reels) Digitized 2014/16949 5.8. Head leader: #21 Mar 69 Students #2 Reel 21. Tail leader: Reel - 21 - tail.
Note on film box: #22. Other side of film box: Everyman reel #22 Burnt #A. Note on envelope: Everyman #22 Burnt #A (21 of 24 reels) Digitized 2014/16949. 5.9. Head leader: Everyman Burnt #22. Tail leader: Reel 22 tail.
Note on film box: #23. Other side of box: Everyman reel #23 Burnt xeroxes #B. Note on preservation film container: Everyman #23 Burnt Zeroxs #B. (22 of 24 reels) Digitized 2104/16949 5.9. Head leader: Apr 69 Everyman "Burnt" Reel #23.
Note on box: #24. Other side of box: Everyman Reel #24 Burnt zeroxes #c. Note on preservation box: Everyman #24 Burnt Zeroxes #c (23 of 24 reels) Digitized 2014/16949 5.10. Head leader: Everyman Burnt Apr 69 #24. Tail leader: Huemark 4-17-69 #5553 Nesbitt Asoc. LTD. - Tail 2 - Reel - 24 - Tail.
Note on box: Oct 14/69 Everyman last reel "God" for insertion into film Henry Hecht plays "God". On other side of box: 7 God'. Note on preservation box: Everyman last reel "God" for insertion into film Oct 14/69 (24 of 24 reels) Digitized 2014/16949 5.10.
Note on film box: "God" Oct 14/69 "Everyman duplicate A Henry Hecht plays 'God". Note on preservation box: Everyman "God" Duplicate A Henry Hecht Plays "God" Oct 14/69. Digitized 2014/17149 5.11.
Note on film box: "God" "Everyman" last reel duplicate B Henry Hecht play "god". Note on preservation box: Everyman last reel "God" Duplicate B Henry Hecht plays "God". Digitized 2014/17151 5.11
Oversized material housed in Box 11, Folder 9.
Label: Xerox Show Can. (top): XEROX Film AMBERT. Can (bottom): R-2337. Leader (HEAD): XEROX Head pix pos B&W A-wind, Ambert 3648.
Label: "Xerox" spliced-edited film on xerography. Can (top): I took off projector Jan 72. Can (bottom): Jan 6 72. Tape: 74 D.P. #4 5.2A 6L. Leader (TAIL): Ambert 5424. Leader (HEAD): Xerox Pix Pos B&W A-Wind Ambert 5424
Oversized material housed in Box 11, Folder 9.
Oversized material housed in Box 13 and OV 19.
Oversized material housed in Box 11, Folder 9.
Oversized material for Folder 17 housed in Box 11, Folder 10.
Oversized material housed in OV 19.
Oversized material from Box 7, Folder 3.
Oversized material from Box 7, Folder 5.
Oversized material from in Box 7, Folder 7.
Oversized material from Box 7, Folder 17.
Oversized material from Box 8, Folder 5.
Oversized material from Box 8, Folder 17.
Oversized material from Box 7, Folder 25.
Oversized material from Box 5, Folder 13.
Oversized material from Box 5, Folder 15.
Oversized material from Box 6, Folder 3.
Oversized material from Box 6, Folders 13 and 14.
Oversized material from Box 6, Folder 9.
Oversized material from Box 7, Folder 25.
Oversized material from Box 8, Folder 34.
Printed Material contains books, catalogs, clippings, exhibition announcements, posters, magazines, and press releases. Included are published listings, reviews, and images of Nesbitt's work and exhibitions, and some of the clippings on xerography feature Nesbitt. The rest of the material reflects Nesbitt's interests, dealing with Chinese and Japanese literature, color, communication, creation and duplication of images electronically, energy, film, hallucinogenic experiences, painting, street works, and xerography. In comparison to the rest of the collection, the material in this series has little to no annotations; however, the book and magazine on film are heavily annotated.
Oversized material housed in OV 20.
Oversized material from Box 9, Folder 9.
Oversized material from Box 9, Folder 12.
Oversized material from Box 9, Folder 14.
Oversized material from Box 9, Folder 15.
Oversized material from Box 9, Folder 16.
Oversized material from Box 10, Folder 8.
Oversized material from Box 10, Folder 10.
Oversized material from Box 10, Folder 11.
List of Picasso/Nesjar works in concrete, exhibition catalogs, clippings, photocopies of two letters, including one from Joan Mondale, photocopies of articles on Nesjar.
Items received by Netter from Cornell, including a letter, 1968, a blank postcard of Times Square at night with the inscription "Jeanne Eagels Hippodrome etc etc", a photograph of Cornell (mostly from the back) with an unidentified woman in a backyard, and a folded reproduction of a drawing.
The papers of Louise Nevelson measure 30.5 linear feet and date from circa 1903 to 1988. The collection documents aspects of the life and work of the sculptor, focusing especially on her later career. Papers include correspondence, personal business records, writings, scrapbooks, some of Nevelson's early art work, photographs, interviews, awards and honorary degrees, books, and an extensive amount of printed material.
Interviews, awards, and honorary degrees comprise a series of biographical material, along with scattered personal papers such as a graduation program, wedding announcement, teaching certificate, invitations, miscellaneous notes, and material relating to Nevelson's family. Correspondence consists of letters and enclosures from a wide range of professional contacts, including museums and art centers, universities, art associations, women's and charitable organizations, artists, and philanthropists, among others, concerning the exhibition, sale, and donation of Nevelson's art work, and her various arts-related activities, as well as some letters from friends and family. Correspondence can also be found amongst the subject files, which also include clippings, notes, printed and other material organized according to subject and relating to certain exhibitions, and various artistic and professional activities. Whether this organization originates with Nevelson, one of her assistants, or Archives staff is unknown.
Found amongst Nevelson's business records are consignment receipts, statements, correspondence, inventories, disposition cards, notebooks, and lists, stemming from her business dealings with the Martha Jackson Gallery and related matters, usually carried out by her assistant at the time. Business records relate in particular to the large and complex project of inventorying Nevelson's art work undertaken sometime in the early-1960s. Nevelson's writings consist of poems and poem fragments, a short-lived dream journal, scattered writings on art, and drafts from Dawns and Dusks: Taped Conversations with Diana MacKown by Louise Nevelson and Diana MacKown. Also found are a large number of scrapbooks and an extensive amount of printed material, which likely stem in large part from Nevelson's concern to document and keep a record of her accomplishments. Scrapbooks contain clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and other material documenting Nevelson's early career from roughly the mid-1930s to the mid-1950s. Also included are loose items comprising a scrapbook of sorts on son Mike Nevelson and various scrapbooks compiled by others as mementos of particular events. Printed material includes an extensive amount of clippings and publications, exhibition catalogs and announcements, and a variety of other printed material relating or referring to Nevelson or merely featuring her name in print. Also included are several books, some of which are about or feature segments on Nevelson. This material documents both her critical and commercial success, and her role as personality and minor celebrity in the mass media later in her career, especially during the 1960s and 1970s.
Art work consists of early drawings and watercolors made by Nevelson as a child and adolescent and while studying art in high school and New York, which document her artistic tendencies as youth and her early development as an artist and which provide an interesting contrast to her later work in sculpture. Photographs include ones of the Berliawsky family and Nevelson as a child, adolescent, and young woman in the 1920s and 1930s before she became known as an artist; ones of Nevelson from the mid-1950s to the 1980s, once she had become known, and began to be honored, as an artist; and ones of Nevelson's art work, as well as of various exhibitions and installations of her work. Also included are a number of slides of the artist and her art work, including photographs taken by Dorothy Dehner in the mid-1950s at Louise Nevelson's house on Thirtieth Street.
There is a 40.5 MB unprocessed addition to this collection donated in 2022 that includes digital photographs of a plaque commemoration installed in Louise Nevelson's birth town of Pereyaslav, Ukraine in 2019. Organizers of the event include Julie Gard, Associate Professor of Writing and Associate Director of the Writing Center at the University of Wisconsin-Superior; Yuri Avramenko, Memorial Organizer in Pereyaslav-Ukraine and Maria Nevelson, Founder and Executive Director and Chair of the Board for the Louise Nevelson Foundation. Materials date from 2019.
Series consists of scattered material shedding light on different aspects of Nevelson's life and work. Included are the program of her graduation from Rockland High School, the announcement of her wedding to Charles Nevelson, real estate records pertaining to her apartment/studio in Manhattan, a draft of last her will and testament; some additional family papers concerning her son Mike Nevelson, such as his high school diploma and certificate of service as a seaman, an autograph book (containing signatures of artists, Louis Eilshemius, Hans Hofmann, and Kenneth Hayes Miller, among others), a short story, and various exhibition announcements and catalogs; numerous awards and honorary degrees received by Nevelson; her teaching certificate, dating from the time she taught in the adult education program of the Great Neck, Long Island public schools; material from various interviews with Nevelson, including transcribed interviews with Louise Elliot Rago and Tal Streeter and an untranscribed interview with Molly Haskell; writings about Nevelson, including a typescript of an article by Robert Rosenblum and a paper by Katherine Rouse; video and sound recordings about Nevelson and her work; and other miscellaneous papers.
Biographical material is arranged in rough chronological order. The bulk of this series has been scanned.
Series consists primarily of Nevelson's professional correspondence, as well as some personal and family correspondence. Files are typically made up of letters, invitations, greeting cards, and telegrams received by Nevelson, copies of letters sent on her behalf (by lawyers and assistants) or shared with her by others, and photographs, press releases, clippings, and other printed material enclosed with correspondence. Correspondents include artists, dealers, museums, universities, art critics, collectors, arts-related and social organizations, admirers, along with some friends, colleagues, and family members in addition to her son. (See appendix for a select list of notable correspondents.)
General correspondence details the exhibition of Nevelson's work in various group and one-man shows; the consignment, sale, and disposition of her work, especially her dealings with the Martha Jackson Gallery and Daniel Cordier (in Europe); her donations of art work to museums and universities, and for auction by charitable organizations; and the various honors and awards received by her later in her career (including the Creative Arts Medal in Sculpture from Brandeis University and honorary degrees from the Philadelphia College of Art and Bowdoin College, among others). General correspondence also concerns Nevelson's various art-related activities, including her participation on various panels, and in workshops, conferences, and lecture series on art; her involvement in professional organizations, such as the Sculptor's Guild; and her service on various award juries and arts committees (such as the Arts and Entertainment Committee for the Rockefeller Team).
Correspondence is arranged chronologically. Correspondence in this series from the 1966-1979 acquisition has been scanned in its entirety, except for Louise Nevelson's correspondence with her son, Mike. The bulk of correspondence donated by the Farnsworth Art Museum includes an item-level inventory, and is mostly separated by personal and business subject matter.
See Appendix for a list of selected correspondents from Series 2.
Series consists of files of clippings, newsletters, correspondence, notes, announcements, programs, receipts, loan agreements and receipts, and other material, organized according to subject (name of organization or person, place, activity, format). Files relate to Nevelson's activities with various professional and arts-related organizations (such as Artists Equity Association); her participation in various workshops, panels, and conferences (including Meet the Artists course at New York University and the Tamarind Lithography Workshop); the exhibition of her work in other countries, and in museums and galleries, such as The Museum of Modern Art and Wadsworth Atheneum; the handling of certain business matters (including dealings with the gallery owner, Daniel Cordier, restoration of the Nevelson sculpture owned by Nelson Rockefeller that was damaged by fire, and various photograph orders), usually conducted by Nevelson's assistant, Tom Kendall, on her behalf. Files of biographical information and notes also relate to some of Nevelson's activities in publicizing her art work.
Series consists of files stemming from Nevelson's business dealings with the Martha Jackson Gallery (her primary representative from 1958 to 1962) and other business matters, usually carried out by her assistant, Tom Kendall, on her behalf; scattered note cards and drawings kept by Nevelson, documenting certain early works and their disposition; and checks, accounting books, as well as loose financial papers. Files include consignment receipts, statements, memos, correspondence, notes, inventories, disposition cards, notebooks, lists, and dummy pages for a Nevelson book (compiled from the text of an interview by Tal Streeter and photographs of Nevelson) that was never completed.
The bulk of the files seem to relate to the large project of inventorying Nevelson's art work, including black wood constructions, white works, bronzes, etchings, and drawings, which was most likely carried out by Nevelson's assistant and gallery staff sometime in the early-1960s. Some inventories provide basic information about art works (including title, dates, dimensions, and so on). More detailed inventories, along with the lists, disposition cards, and notebooks which seem to have been used in compiling them, provide further information about the previous and/or current location, ownership, and disposition of art works. Some photographs and sketches of art work can be found on the disposition cards. Other files relate to the pricing, sale, and exhibition of Nevelson's art work.
Series consists of writings by Nevelson, which shed light on different aspects of her creativity and on her ideas about art in general and her work in particular. Included are a journal of sorts in which she recorded her dreams for a two-month time period (from April 21 to June 21) in 1936; various poems and fragments of writings; various writings on art, including technical notes and sketches, titled pieces such as "The Birth of Painting (Picture Happy)" and "The Winged City," drafts of speeches on the artist Rose Newman-Wolinska and on sculpture, an article on sculpture for the Christian Science Monitor; statements which seem to have been written for The Whitney Review (1961-1962); salutes to others, including a poem for Dorothy Dehner which appeared in an exhibition catalog for one of her shows and the draft of a short piece (possibly a speech) in honor of Merce Cunningham; and drafts and galley proofs of Dawns and Dusks: Taped Conversations with Daiana MacKown by Louise Nevelson and Diana MacKown (1976).
Series consists of scrapbooks kept by Nevelson (or by someone on her behalf), documenting her early career roughly spanning from the 1930s to the mid-1950s. Also included are a scrapbook of sorts on Mike Nevelson, as well as various scrapbooks compiled by others and then presented to Nevelson as a memento of a particular event involving the artist, such as being awarded the Distinguished Service Award from State University College at Buffalo and an exhibition at the Galerie Jeanne Bucher in Paris.
A lot of the material is duplicated in the different scrapbooks kept by Nevelson. Much of the same and related material can be found amongst printed material.
Includes Nevelson's high school diploma, a drawing of Nevelson by William Zorach, drawings by Nevelson (reproductions of old masters, which she signed "Berliawsky"), and scrapbook pages of clippings and exhibition catalogs. Note attached reads "Scrapbook, original collation. Acquisition date April 1966."
Includes clippings (one is an article by Nevelson about her work at the Flatbush Boy's Club, the rest are mostly reviews and listings of exhibitions); announcements and catalogs for various exhibitions (including, notably, her first solo show at the Nierendorf Gallery); and a program and clippings on Mike Nevelson's performance in the play, Our Town.
Includes primarily clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs from the time period 1952-1956 (much of this material is duplicated in this and other scrapbooks), as well as an exhibition catalog for the American Artists Congress show in 1936, an educational bulletin (listing a class taught by Nevelson in 1938-1939), a book of poems (in Spanish) by Alfredo Chaco, and correspondence and clippings relating to an honorary degree received in 1966.
Includes, along with the more typical clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, photographs (stats?) of models posing in front of Nevelson art work (presumably taken sometime during the 1960s), extensive clippings on Joe Milone and his shoeshine box (discovered by Nevelson in 1942 and exhibited that same year at MOMA), and proofs of the artist photograph (where Nevelson is made up to look like a witch) which appeared in Life magazine sometime in the 1950s.
(See Box 5, F34)
Series consists of books and printed material collected by Nevelson and/or her assistants, documenting her various professional and artistic achievements throughout her career, her critical and commercial success, and her role as a personality and minor celebrity in the mass media late in her career. Books include ones given as gifts to Nevelson by friends or admirers and ones about or featuring segments on Nevelson. Printed material includes clippings from magazines and newspapers of reviews, articles, and routine listings of Nevelson's exhibits, as well as some publications featuring the same; exhibition catalogs, announcements, and invitations for Nevelson's group and solo shows, as well as some for the shows of others; and press releases, newsletters, bulletins, announcements, calendars of events, catalogs, programs and other printed material relating or referring to Nevelson or merely featuring her name in print. The extent of this material is suggestive of Nevelson's concern and effort to document and keep a record of her accomplishments.
Titles include: Antologia del possible, Gastone Novelli (1962) Art and Sexual Politics: Women's Liberation, Women Artists, and Art History, eds. Thomas B. Hess and Elizabeth C. Baker (1973) Icons and Images of the Sixties, Nicolas Calas and Elena Calas (1971) Louise Nevelson, Arnold B. Glimcher (1972) Nevelson, Colette Roberts (1964)New Directions 17, ed. J. Laughlin (1961) Open Secrets: Ninety-four Women in Touch with Our Time, Barbaralee Diamonstein (1972)The Paper Snake, Ray Johnson (1965)Provacative Parallels:  Naive Early Americans/International Sophisticates, Jean Lipman (1975) Ultime tendenze nell'arte d'oggi, Gillo Dorfles (1961) Ventures in Research: Lectures by the Faculty of C.W. Post Center of Long Island University, ed. Richard R. Griffith (1977) Series consists of some of Nevelson's early art work. Included are drawings she made as a child and adolescent; watercolor copies of Old Master paintings (including a slightly changed version of the Mona Lisa), watercolor landscapes, and drawings of period furniture created while she was taking art classes in high school; various watercolors created while she was studying art in the 1920s; and four printing plates mounted on wood blocks, presumably used in making relief prints of certain Nevelson sculptures. Art work found here documents Nevelson's artistic tendencies as a youth and her early development as an artist, and provides an interesting contrast to the later work for which she became famous.
Also included are illustrated holiday and greeting cards, sketchbooks, and other pieces of art gifted to Nevelson by her friends, peers, and assistant Teddy Haseltine; and two copies of Louise Nevelson: Geometry + Magic, a portrait of Louise Nevelson filmed over four years by Diana MacKown and Rawn Fulton (1982).
Includes negatives and copy prints made by AAA for some.
Includes a 1922 watercolor on board that may or may not be a self-portrait.
Series consists of photographs of Nevelson as well as her family and friends, studio, exhibits, and art work.
Subseries consists of photographs of the Berliawsky family, including what seems to be a portrait of Nevelson's grandparents and their sons presumably dating from the late 1800s, a portrait of her father, Isaac Berliawsky circa 1903-1904, a portrait of the Berliawsky family after their arrival in America (including Nevelson and her siblings) circa 1907, and a portrait of Nevelson's sister, Anita Berliawsky, as a young woman; Nevelson's class and team photographs, including class photographs from 1913 and 1918 (the year in which she graduated) and a photograph of Nevelson on the basketball team; portraits of Nevelson as a young girl; photographs of the Nevelson family, including a portrait of her husband, Charles, a photograph of Nevelson with her husband and his brothers, and photographs of Nevelson with her husband and son; photographs of her son, Mike, as a baby and young man; and photographs of Nevelson in New York circa 1922, in Munich circa 1931, on board a ship to Paris in 1932, and sometime during the 1930s, before she became known as an artist.
Most files contain copy prints and negatives of the photographs made by AAA. Files are arranged in chronological order.
Subseries consists of photographs of Nevelson once she had become known, and began to be honored, as an artist. The majority are either portraits of the artist or photographs of the artist at work, at home, and in different settings taken by various individuals. Most notable among these are the portraits of Nevelson and photographs of her house and studio on Thirtieth Street taken by Jeremiah Russell and the photographs of Nevelson at home and in her studio, at work with her assistant Diana Mackown, and with her art work taken by Ugo Mulas, the Italian photographer known for documenting the life and work of artists. Others, including the portraits taken by Renate Ponsold and Jack Mitchell, may have been used in various art works and/or exhibitions; still others, such as the photographs taken by Basil Langton, may have been intended for publication. Also found are photographs of Nevelson at various exhibitions and openings (including the opening of her show at Studio Marconi in Milan, Italy), at various social gatherings (including a reception at her brother's hotel, the Thorndike Hotel, where she was photographed with Andrew Wyeth), and receiving various awards and honors (including honorary degrees from Columbia University and Smith College, and the first Women's Caucus for Art Award). Also included are photographs from the artist, Robert Indiana, featuring himself in front of his and Nevelson's sculptures, and at gatherings with Nevelson, and some photographs that were featured in Look magazine.
Includes ones by Marie Cosindas, Jack Mitchell, and others.
Subseries consists of photographs of Nevelson's art work in various exhibitions and on display in various locations. Included are photographs of an exhibition at the Martha Jackson Gallery (October-November, 1959) and of a retrospective at the Whitney Museum in 1979, as well as of a Nevelson work on display at the Tate Gallery; and a photograph album of her one-man show at the Minami Gallery, Tokyo, Japan in 1975. Other photographs include ones of Nevelson's work displayed in the Thorndike Hotel (owned by her brother) and the Queens College library; and ones of Nevelson's outdoor (metal) sculptures installed at Wichita State University, Yale University, and in Italy, as well as ones of a Nevelson wood sculpture in an outdoor setting (not necessarily an outdoor sculpture).
Files are arranged in chronological order.
Subseries consists of photographs of Nevelson's art work (primarily works in terra cotta, tattistone, and wood, as well as some drawings and paintings). Also included are scattered photographs of paintings by Louis Eilshemius (amongst the ones taken by John Schiff and Jeremiah Russell) and Ralph Rosenborg that Nevelson owned. At least some of the photographs by Schiff seem to have been created for the Nierendorf Gallery; photographs by Russell were likely created for Nevelson; photographs by Buckley Semley, Oliver Baker, and Rudy Burckhardt seem to have been created for the Martha Jackson Gallery (some of these, especially the ones by Semley, may have been used in the inventory of Nevelson's art work carried out by her assistants and gallery staff). Photographs of Nevelson's art work are typically undated, most lack any identifying information, and many are duplicates. Numbers on the verso of some seem to correspond to the art work pictured, however there is no further information about what exactly the number is meant to reference or signify.
Photographs are arranged in files according to photographer. Photographs of various works, art work by Ralph Rosenborg, and unidentified art work are arranged in separate files at the end of the series. Even though most photographs are undated, dates provided represent the decade in which the photographs were most likely created. Files are arranged in rough chronological order.
(2 folders; not scanned)
Subseries consists of glass slides and transparencies of Nevelson and her art work. The photographs on these slides typically do not duplicate those found amongst the artist and art work photographs above. Included are glass slides of photographs taken by Dorothy Dehner, primarily documenting the works of art in the rooms, studio, and garden of Nevelson's house on Thirtieth Street. Dehner's photographs also feature Nevelson at work and posed in front of certain works, outside views of the house, and the Eilshemius paintings and pre-Columbian sculptures owned by Nevelson. Dehner took the photographs on successive trips to Nevelson's house. The slides appear to be numbered in various sequences, perhaps corresponding to each trip. However, at this point, all the slides have been mixed together and it is difficult to reconstruct any meaningful order from the numbers.
Also included are various slides of Nevelson and her art work dating from the 1950s; slides of art work dating from circa 1961, three of which seem to have been used by Tom Kendall in a lecture; slides of Nevelson and her assistant in front of her house, and ones of Nevelson alone in her house and studio dating from the mid-1960s; slides featuring Nevelson posing in front of her art work, at home and in her studio, in her neighborhood, and at a foundry, and slides featuring different views of various outdoor installations of her metal sculptures, all of which date from the 1970s; and glass slides of Nevelson art work, along with some negatives.
Slides are undated; however the dates provided represent the decade in which they were most likely created. Slides are arranged according to type and photographer or subject of photograph.
Images of Nevelson with family and friends, portraits of the artist, events and social gatherings, Nevelson's exhibits and installations, her home and studio, as well as her art work.
There is a 40.5 MB unprocessed addition to this collection donated in 2022 that includes digital photographs of a plaque commemoration installed in Louise Nevelson's birth town of Pereyaslav, Ukraine in 2019. Organizers of the event include Julie Gard, Associate Professor of Writing and Associate Director of the Writing Center at the University of Wisconsin-Superior; Yuri Avramenko, Memorial Organizer in Pereyaslav-Ukraine and Maria Nevelson, Founder and Executive Director and Chair of the Board for the Louise Nevelson Foundation. Materials date from 2019.
15 volumes of scrapbooks containing correspondence, extracts from minutes, catalogs, press clippings and publicity material relating to the founding of the Newark Museum and its subsequent activities.
Letters from artists, art dealers, and art collectors, mostly addressed to Sanford Low, Director of the Museum, 1940-1964. Some letters contain price lists of works of art, photographs and printed matter. Correspondents include John Taylor Arms, Milton Avery, Thomas Hart Benton, Leonard Baskin, Varujan Boghosian, Charles Burchfield, Adolf Dehn, Philip Kappel, Sol LeWitt, Herbert Meyer, Ogden Pleissner, Henry Schnakenberg, Robert Vose and others. Also included are writings by Low and others about the Musuem.
Letter to Lydia M. Poirus apologizing for not being able to send her a book plate for her collection.
The collection of photographs of artists by Arnold Newman measures 0.6 linear feet and dates from 1940 to 1961. The collection consists of photographs of various artists taken by Newman. Some of the represented artists include: Gertrude Abercrombie, Julius Bloch, Willem De Kooning, David Hare, Joseph Kaplan, Ibram Lassaw, and Joseph Stella. Folders consist of a large version photograph and both a duplicate small version and transparency of the photograph.
REEL 3481: Six letters from Bradley Walker Tomlin, 1948-1952, and 15 from Mark Rothko, 1945-1950; catalogs with introductions by Newman, and other writings; catalogs, announcements and clippings on Newman, 1943-1971; a photograph of Newman at the opening of "The Intrasubjectives" at Kootz Gallery, 1949; and a photograph of Peggy Guggenheim with Polish artist Teresa Zarnower, ca. 1950.
UNMICROFILMED: Thirty letters from Clyfford Still, 1946-1956, addressed to Barnett and Annalee Newman. The letters were written during the period Still was teaching at the California School of Fine Art in San Francisco. He writes of his alienation from the New York and California art world, Clement Greenberg, the Bauhaus aesthetic, and his CSFA colleagues, including Ad Reinhardt, and his rift with Mark Rothko.
Reviews the history of the San Francisco Coit Tower from its building, the commissioning of the often controversial murals by the Public Works of Art Project in 1933, and their significance in both artistic and political terms, through to the more recent problems of restoration and the commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the murals in 1984. Appearing in the video are Coit Tower muralists, Ralph Chessé, John Langley Howard and Bernard Zakheim. Offering commentary and analysis are: Masha Zakheim Jewett, author of COIT TOWER, Michael Bell, Assistant Director, San Francisco Art Commission, and art historian Francis V. O'Connor.
List of the works included in the American art today exhibit at the World's Fair. Paintings and sculptures listed separately. Archives copy is annotated in pencil.
Sketches, photographs of works of art, slides, reproductions, clippings and printed matter relating to exhibitions of both Louis Nisonoff and his wife Carol Weinstock. Also included is a biographical sheet about Weinstock.
The records of the Niveau Gallery measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1943 to 1947. The records document the history of the gallery through a scrapbook of photographs of artwork displayed at the gallery and a scrapbook of clipping and some exhibtiion announcements.
Material is in fragile condition.
The papers of feminist art historian and educator Linda Nochlin measure 31.2 linear feet and 3.62 gigabytes and date from circa 1876, 1937 to 2017. The collection is comprised of biographical materials; date books and notebooks; correspondence; writing project files that include material on Gustave Courbet and realism, bathers and the body, essays and lectures on 19th century art among other topics, artists, and smaller writing projects; professional files containing material on conferences and fellowships; teaching files detailing courses taught by Nochlin at New York University Institute of Fine Arts and other institutions; printed materials; artwork; and photographic materials that document Nochlin and her relationships with family, colleagues and friends, and artists.
Biographical materials include two address books; awards and prizes; certificates and diplomas; childhood writings and notes, assignments, and school newsletters; course work at Vassar College and NYU's Institute of Fine Arts; honors; and one sound recording and three transcripts of Nochlin interviews with Alain Veinstein, Dan Karlholm, Jon Weiner, and Moira Roth.
Over 150 date books and notebooks spanning nearly 60 years contain appointments, reminders, travel plans, thoughts on art, journal entries, daily activities, to-do lists, contact information, fiction writing, and other small notations. Correspondence is with family; close colleagues and artists Ewa Lajer-Burcharth, Zuka Mitelberg, Joan Mitchell, and Philip Pearlstein; and professional contacts regarding speaking engagements, publishing projects, exhibitions, artists' work, conferences, and events.
The bulk of the collection documents Nochlin's prolific writing career that includes her lifelong research and work on Gustave Courbet, realism, bathers and the body, as well as numerous essays and lectures, research and writings on artists, and various other writing projects.
Files for professional activities contain material for conferences and symposiums that include 11 sound and video recordings, grants, fellowships, and travel arrangements and expenses. Teaching files consist of documentation for courses taught by Nochlin at New York University Institute of Fine Arts, Vassar College, Yale University, and other academic institutions.
Publications and other printed materials include annotated books, booklets, clippings, exhibition catalogs, journals and magazines, newsletters, offprints, five video recordings of broadcasts and documentary material, flyers, invitations, posters, and postcards. Artwork includes sketches in ink, charcoal, paint, and pencil created during Nochlin's childhood into her early 20s, along with artwork by children, and one video art recording by Zoulikha Bouabdellah.
Photographs and negatives are of Nochlin with artists Nancy Graves, Sebastian Horsley, and Shirley Jaffe; childhood classmates; friends and colleagues; students; and travels to Europe. Also included are photographs of works of art, personal photographs of family members, and portraits and snapshots of Nochlin.
Nochlin's biographical materials include two address books, awards and prizes, certificates from the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and her elementary school, and digital curriculum vitae; digital biographies and poetry, childhood writings, class notes, assignments, and newsletters demonstrating Nochlin's early writing and drawing abilities; undergraduate and graduate class notes and papers related to art, philosophy, and politics along with other records collected while attending Vassar College and NYU's Institute of Fine Arts; diplomas and degrees; material from events honoring Nochlin; and one sound recording and three transcripts of Nochlin interviews with Alain Veinstein, Dan Karlholm, Jon Weiner, and Moira Roth.
2 books
The series contains 53 date books, 98 notebooks, and digital journaling exercises spanning from 1959 to 2017.
The date books contain Nochlin's appointments and reminders pertaining to speaking engagements, travel plans, and other professional, as well as personal plans. The notebooks are intermittently dated by hand and contain similar content as the date books. Additionally, they are interspersed with Nochlin's thoughts on art, journal entries, daily activities, to-do lists, contact information, exercise and food logs, and some fiction writing.
3 books
2 books
5 books
4 books
2 books
1 book
2 books
3 books
2 books
3 books
Most of the Nochlin's correspondence is professional in nature discussing speaking engagements, publishing projects, exhibitions, artists' work, conferences, and other professional events. Nochlin's earliest correspondence in the collection is with her family discussing her life at Vassar College and her student trip abroad to the United Kingdom. More personal correspondence is with close colleagues and artists Ewa Lajer-Burcharth, Zuka Mitelberg, Joan Mitchell, and Philip Pearlstein. Folders may contain manuscripts which were often sent to Nochlin for her professional opinion or as possible research for her own projects, printed material, and other records related to the correspondence.
Emails cover numerous topics and projects, and were organized into groupings by the donor and exported upon accession. Access files to be served in the delivery module of ePADD.
Files cover a number of topics and often represent various document drafts. They were labeled as related to email but the exact relationship is not well documented.
File contains material regarding Nochlin's appointment as the Charles Eliot Norton Professor of Poetry.
Includes illustrated letters.
Includes a copy of Nochlin's letter to Mitchell.
Includes photographs of Nochlin and Mitelberg.
Folder contains a photocopy of Nochlin's sympathy letter to Henry Benning Cortesi after Rosenthal's death.
The files in this series document Nochlin's prolific writing career. The series includes her lifelong research and work on Gustave Courbet, realism, bathers and the body, as well as numerous essays and lectures, research and writings on artists, and other types of writing projects. In addition to draft writings and typescripts, the folders include documents and digital material related to the projects such as correspondence, contracts, lecture material, outlines, four sound recordings, and research material that may contain photographic materials, photocopies of images and articles, notes, bibliographies, travel documents, and student and colleague papers.
Included in this subseries are drafts and notes for Nochlin's dissertation, "Gustave Courbet: A Study of Style and Society," published in 1976 which was the genesis of Nochlin's lifelong study of Courbet and his relation to realism. The subseries includes drafts, correspondence, lectures, outlines, typescripts, contracts, and research material that includes an original letter written by Courbet, circa 1876. Additional material on Courbet can be found within the teaching files in series 6, subseries 6.1.
Includes one notebook.
Includes one notecard book.
Includes one notebook.
See sets 1-6
Includes one notebook.
Nochlin's writings in this subseries relate to depictions of the human body, particularly female nudes. Many of the writings were originally presented by Nochlin during the 2004 Charles Eliot Norton Lecture Series and subsequently published in the 2006 book Bathers, Bodies, Beauty: The Visceral Eye. Earlier material titled "Bathers" or "Bathtime" is the product of her National Endowment for the Humanities award granted in 1993 to research the representation and practices of bathing in 19th-century France. The folders contain drafts, typescripts, lectures and presentation materials, correspondence, and research material. Additional material can be found within the teaching files in series 6, subseries 6.1.
This subseries contains published and unpublished essay project material that falls outside of Nochlin's Courbet and bathers work. Many of the essays deal with gender and feminism, but Nochlin also discusses topics such as anti-Semitism, labor rights, furniture design, and art theory in several of the essays. Essay drafts and accompanying exhibition material for Global Feminisms, a major feminist art exhibition co-curated by Nochlin and Maura Reilly, are also included in this subseries.
Nochlin's lectures deal mainly with gender and feminist issues, as well as the intersection of these issues with race and culture. Other topics include contemporary artists, art criticism, and autobiographical lectures including "Memoirs of an Ad Hoc Art Historian" and "Memoirs of a Radical Art Historian." The location or associated event of each lecture is noted if known.
This subseries consists of typescripts, drafts, lectures, correspondence, and research material that includes printed materials, notes, images of artwork, and other material related to the artist. The folders may contain material for multiple writing projects on an artist. The file for Philip Pearlstein includes a few of Nochlin's diary entries discussing her experience sitting for Pearlstein when he painted Nochlin and Richard Pommer's wedding portrait in 1968.
Drafts and notes
Research material
Correspondence and interview transcript
Research material
Digital prints of artwork
Lectures
Manuscripts and research material
Drafts
Manuscripts
Correspondence
Drafts
Research material
Includes born-digital material, see ER073.
Drafts
Correspondence
Drafts
1 notebook
Research material
Includes diary entries written by Nochlin during her sittings for Pearlstein's portrait of her and Richard Pommer.
Includes born-digital materials, see ER084.
Steven Watson and Virgil Thomson discussion on Stettheimer
The projects in this subseries include material for books, book blurbs, magazine columns, graduation addresses, art and book reviews, and translations from French to English by Nochlin. Also included is general research material that is not associated with specific projects.
Chapters were written for an unpublished textbook.
See set 7
Files in this series contain material regarding Nochlin's professional activities as an advisor, on committees, with grants and fellowships, and presentations including one in born-digital form. Other files are for photograph requests, travel arrangements, and travel expenses. Conference and symposium material includes correspondence, informational documents for participants, logistical arrangements, and 11 audiovisual recordings documenting presentations during conference/symposium sessions.
Includes an honorary degree from the University to Nochlin.
The series contains files, including digital material, for courses taught by Nochlin at New York University Institute of Fine Arts and Vassar College. Other courses were taught at Hunter College, Columbia University, Stanford University, Williams College, and Yale University, where she was a visiting professor.
The subseries includes syllabi, bibliographies, lecture notes, faculty memos, reading material, and course descriptions. Folders may contain a mixture of material from multiple universities due to Nochlin's reuse of course material for the creation of new course material.
Also includes material related to two other courses: "Women Artists and Their Critics - Colloquium" and "Degas and his Critics."
The material in this subseries includes bibliographies, student correspondence that includes a few student papers, library catalog lists, teaching assistant duties, a lease between Richard Pommer and Vassar College, and letters of recommendation written by Nochlin.
A large portion of the series includes heavily annotated books used by Nochlin for research. Many of the booklets, clippings, exhibition catalogs, journals and magazines, newsletters, and offprints feature published writings by Nochlin or reviews of her work. Also included are broadcasts and documentary material on five video recordings, flyers, invitations, posters, and postcards collected and labeled "My Life in Postcards" by Nochlin.
Journal includes an interview with Nochlin.
The "Young Voices" section features writing by Nochlin.
Original box label read "My Life in Postcards."
Artwork by Nochlin includes sketches in ink, charcoal, paint, and pencil created from childhood into her early 20s as class or personal projects. Artwork by others includes a folder of painted sketches by children, possibly Nochlin's grandchildren, and one video recording of video art by Zoulikha Bouabdellah.
Photographic material is of Nochlin with artists Nancy Graves, Sebastian Horsley, and Shirley Jaffe; of Nochlin by Annie Appel, Mel Rosenthal, and Patrick McMullen; with family members including her children and husbands; group photographs of Nochlin's childhood school class and later in life at professional events; personal snapshots of friends and colleagues; students; snapshots of travel to France, Prague, Rome, and other locations; and works of art including Nochlin's piece "Achetez des Bananes." The photographs in the file for Nochlin and Richard Pommer's wedding depicts the couple in the same wedding attire shown in Portrait of Linda Nochlin & Richard Pommer by Philip Pearlstein.
Includes a letter from Ewa Lajer-Burcharth.
Correspondence, printed material, photographs and an audio cassette relating to the sculptor David Smith and his works.
Letters from and about Smith; Smith's funeral bill; 7 snapshots taken by Stanley Twardowicz at the Noland home in 1964 of Noland, Smith and Jules Olitski; negatives of unidentified people; photographs and negatives of work by Smith; and clippings. Also included is a recorded interview with Leon Pratt, Smith's assistant (interviewer unidentified), 1960s.
Biographical material; correspondence with Harrison Cady, John Cosigan, the Columbus Museum, Georgia Institute of Technology, Grand Central Galleries, Musemont Fine Art Camp, the Salmagundi Club, the Art Students League, Laurence Schmeckebier (Nordhausen's biographer), Syracuse University, the United States Navy, and others, mostly concerning portraits by Nordhausen; bills and receipts; a diary, 1923-1924, concerning his studies at the Royal Academy of Fine Arts in Munich and his travels in Europe; day books and engagement calendars, ca. 1940-1985; address books; guest books; 9 scrapbooks, 1919-1991, containing photographs, clippings and letters; exhibition catalogs and announcements; photographs of works of art by Peter A. Juley; certificates of merit from the Salmagundi Club, 1950-1974; and photographs of Salmagundi Club dinners, 1938, 1940, 1942, 1947, 1949, 1961, and 1962.
Biographical material, correspondence, business records, writings and notes, printed material, scrapbooks, and photographs document Nordfeldt's career as a painter and instructor, and his widow's involvement after his death in exhibitions, biographies, and sales of his work.
REELS D166-D167: Biographical material includes a biographical sketch by Stanton L. Catlin, several letters from Nordfeldt's first wife Margaret to his second wife, Emily, and his nephew, Leonard Olson, in response to requests for biographical information, and biographical documents; correspondence of Emily and B.J.O., 1909-1959, with museum directors, gallery owners, patrons, artists, friends, universities, and others, mainly regarding the sale and exhibitions of his paintings and his teaching positions; artists' statements; exhibition catalogs; photographs of Nordfeldt; an excerpt from The Man on the Hilltop, by Arthur Davison Ficke; 5 sketchbooks; 3 scrapbooks; and an extensive catalog of Nordfeldt's paintings compiled by Emily, containing photographs and descriptive information.
Among the correspondents are Dewey Albinson, Watson Bidwell, Gina Knee Brook, Victor Candell, Howard N. Cook, Edward L. Davison, Howard Devree, William Dickerson, Constance Forsyth, Harriet Hanley of Harriet Hanley Gallery, Raymond Jonson, William Lester, A. Hyatt Mayor, Georgette Passedoit of the Passedoit Gallery, his student Roberta Shelton, Homer Saint-Gaudens, and Hudson D. Walker. Some of the letters are illustrated.
UNMICROFILMED: Resumes; correspondence, undated, 1923-1979, includes excerpts of letters from Nordfeldt to Constance Forsyth, 1942-1943 and Emily Abbott Nordfeldt, 1944; Emily Abbott Nordfeldt's correspondence with art collectors, art dealers, galleries and museums regarding exhibitions, gifts and sales of Nordfeldt's work; with Nordfeldt's biographers F. Van Deren Coke and J. Douglas Hale; and with the University of Minnesota, University Gallery, 1970-1972 regarding a Nordfeldt exhibition and the Nordfeldt Fund established by Emily; receipts and other business records; 1944-1979; writings and notes by Emily, ca.1930-1950, and others including the preface by Sheldon Cheney for Nordfeldt, the Painter by Coke, 1972;
a transcript of an interview with Raymond Jonson by Coke; printed material, including clippings, 1912-1984, exhibition catalogs, posters and announcements, undated, 1915-1991, notably a catalog of Nordfeldt's etchings shown at the Arthur H. Hahlo & Co. with an introduction by Robert W. Bruere, 1915; reproductions of graphic work for The Outlook and Harper's Monthly Magazine, 1910; miscellaneous printed material; a scrapbook of clippings and printed material, 1971-1980; photographs of Nordfeldt, undated 1910-1955, of the Santa Fe Players' production of "Grumpy," 1921; 3 photo albums of works of art, ca. 1930-1940; 10 seconds of motion picture film; and 2 sketches by Nordfeldt.
An unpublished memoir written by Norris documenting his life. The manuscript begins with Norris' birth in 1910, including his childhood memories of California. He also describes in detail his education at Ponoma College, Harvard University and Sorbonne in Paris, as well as his teaching position at the University of Hawaii. Themes of formative experiences, education, sexual orientation, family, and church life are dominant in his writing. He concludes with a summary of the early 1990s, after he moved to New York City. Some pages are annotated in pen by Norris.
53 Letters to Percy North from friends, family and associates and colleagues. Eleven letters from James Daugherty, April-Dec. 1971, and April 1973, concerning a proposed article by North about his pastels and color theories, the sale of a pastel to North, and his exhibitions; letters from Jack Levine, Kate Steinitz, Abraham Rattner, Edward Laning, and Hunter Ingalls responding to North's request for information about Max Weber; a letter from Norman Rockwell responding to a request for an autographed bookplate, March 2, 1971; a letter from Jerry Ott about the price of a print and the "strange twists and turns" of his career, July 8, 1992; letters from artists in response to North's request for information about works in the permanent collection of the University of Minnesota Art Gallery; letters from Herman Maril and Robert Luck concerning North's exhibition Hudson D. Walker: Patron and Friend at the University of Minnesota Art Gallery, 1977; a Christmas card from Renee and Chaim Gross, ca. 1951; illustrated note from Lila Katzen, 1986 and miscellany.
The sixty-nine glass plate negatives of marine painter William Edward Norton (1843-1916) measure 0.42 linear feet and date from circa 1880 and include one image of Norton, and images of unidentified women and children, presumably members of Norton's family. Other negatives are of boats and sailing ships or show buildings and river and street scenes; two images are of paintings of ships. Also found is a folder of contact sheets, circa 1990, made from sixty-five of the negatives.
The Richard Notkin papers measure 0.2 linear feet and date from circa 1980-2000. Included are a resume and artist statements; writings consisting of a typescript, "Ceramic Art and Social Commentary," presented at Jinro International Ceramic Arts Symposium, Seoul, Korea, July 3, 1996, and photocopies of published and unpublished writings by Notkin; exhibition catalogs and announcements; and three photographs of Notkin working in his studio in Myrtle Point, Oregon, 1980.
The papers of abstract painter David Novros are dated 1963 to 2008, and measure 1.0 linear foot. Correspondence, records relating to the Liaunig Boat House commission (Middleburgh, NY), interview transcripts, printed material, and photographs document the painter's professional career.
The vast majority of correspondence consists of incoming letters. The only reciprocal exchanges preserved are with art historian Charles Hope and the Menil Collection. Letters are from artists Rory McEwen, Paul Mogensen, and Ken Price; writers Frances Colpitt and Claudine Humblet; and from other colleagues and friends. The letters David Novros wrote to his family between 1963 and 1979 recount his travels and describe in some detail - many with accompanying illustrations and diagrams - work in progress, exhibitions, and commissions. Also preserved are copies of his letters to the Trustees of the Donald Judd Estate and Ranier Judd concerning the Marfa, Texas properties and projects, his Spring Street studio in New York City, and the Judd Foundation. Novros's letters to editors concern art-related articles that appeared in The New York Review of Books, The New York Times, Los Angeles Times, and other publications.
Peter Liaunig's commission for a boat house with three fresco paintings in Middleburgh, New York, is documented by correspondence, plans, and designs. The "Boat House Diary, Middleburgh, NY," kept by Novros August 10-15, 2003, describes the process of painting the frescoes with the assistance of Jason, and notes materials and techniques used.
Interview transcripts are of Phong Bui's conversation with David Novros, published June 2008 in The Brooklyn Rail, and an unpublished interview Novros conducted with sculptor Robert Graham in 2008.
Printed material about or mentioning David Novros consists of articles and reviews, exhibition announcements and posters. Items written by Novros are a review of Jackson Pollock and two poems.
Photographs are of David Novros with his family and friends. There are also views of the Novros family's home in Van Nuys, California, and Indian-painted rocks at Sears Point, Arizona that influenced Novros' art.
Correspondence with art historian Charles Hope regards a letter to the editor of The New York Review of Books written by Novros in response to Hope's exhibition review of "Venice and the North." Novros's correspondence with the Menil Collection and Menil Foundation concerns the acquisition and exhibition of his work, with notes and background information.
The vast majority of correspondence consists of incoming letters. Found here are letters from artists Rory McEwen, Paul Mogensen, and Ken Price. Rory McEwen, who wrote over an extended period, sent a small, undated watercolor portrait of himself working in the kitchen with his wife. Enclosed with Frances Colpitt's letters are manuscripts of her review of Minimalism by James Meyer, a catalogue entry about David Novros for the Blanton Museum of Art's exhibition "Reimagining Space: the Park Place Gallery Group in 1960s New York," and a copy of a letter she sent to Donald Judd's daughter about his estate. Letters from Claudine Humblet concern her book, La Nouvelle Abstraction Américaine de 1950 à 1970, and include a copy of "David Novros: ou la quête d'un art classique."
Letters that David Novros wrote to his family between 1963 and 1979 recount his travels and describe in some detail work in progress, exhibitions, and commissions; they often include diagrams and illustrations. His letters to the Trustees of the Donald Judd Estate and Ranier Judd are about Judd's Marfa, Texas properties and projects, his New York City studio on Spring Street, and the Judd Foundation. Novros's letters to editors concern art-related articles that appeared in The New York Review of Books, The New York Times, Los Angeles Times, and other publications.
Cooper, Paula 
Cuomo, Mario 
Price, Ken 
Whitney Museum of American Art 
Bonnie 
Dee[lun?] 
Josef 
Phil 
Among the designs for painted fresco walls are many small drawings in ink and color pencil. Description and narrative consists of a printed sheet with building specifications, and "Boat House Diary, Middleburgh, NY" kept by Novros. Diary entries dated Aug. 10-15, 2003 describe the process of painting the frescoes with the assistance of Jason, and note materials and techniques used.
Phong Bui's interview with David Novros was published in The Brooklyn Rail, June 2008. The interview Novros conducted with scuptor Robert Graham is unpublished.
Printed material about or mentioning David Novros consists of articles and reviews, exhibition announcements and posters. Items written by Novros are a review of a Jackson Pollock exhibition and two poems.
Photographs of Novros with family and include: brother Paul, Robert Graham, Rory and Romana (Ruby) McEwen, and unidentified individuals. Among the pictures of places are the Novros family's home in Van Nuys, California, and rocks at Sears Point, Arizona, painted with Indian images that influenced his art.
Letters from David Smith; a notice for an exhibition of Smith's sculpture at the Willard Gallery, January 5-30, 1954; and one letter from Philip E[vergood ?].
Files on artists contacted by Hans Hacker, director, to request or make arrangements for tours of the artists' studios during 1950-1963. Included are letters, biographical information, clippings and catalogs.
Primarily single-item collections consisting of letters, sketches and printed material from or about American artists, or art-related topics.
Entry forms for the First Annual Exhibition, 1890, listing the artist, title of work, and the price.
Included are: "The French in California, 1850-1950"; annual report, 1955, and a catalog of the picture collections of the Society of California Pioneers; a brief resume of the career of Ernest Narjot; "Charles Christian Nahl," by Eugen Neuhaus, 1936; "California Centennials Exhibition of Art" at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, 1949; "Harry Raschen, Painter of the American West," by Harry Flayderman, 1958; Samuel Marsden Brookes exhibition catalog, 1962-1963; and Thomas Moran exhibition catalog, 1963.
The Ruth O'Hara papers relating to her print collection measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1912 to 1952. The papers focus on the provenance, original purchase, and auction of prints and works acquired by Ruth O'Hara. Found are letters and financial records, a photograph of John Taylor Arms and others, and printed material.
Letters and financial records are from artists and galleries regarding the purchase of works of art. Included are letters to Mrs. Louis Lowison from the firm of Robert Mussmann; letters from Robert Vonnoh and Harry Wicky; a letter to Adele Buckalter from John Taylor Arms; and an auction sale receipt from The Walpole Galleries for prints bought by Mrs. Lowinson, mentioning bids for the same prints by Franklin Delano Roosevelt. A photograph depicts John Taylor Arms, Kerr Eby, Mrs. Hay and others. Printed materials include priced auction and exhibition catalogs for The Walpole Galleries, Rains Galleries, Plaza Art Auction Galleries, Inc., Ernest Roth, and others and clippings.
The Ivan C. Karp papers and OK Harris Works of Art gallery records measure 80.3 linear feet and are dated 1960-2014. The collection documents the operation and activities of the contemporary art gallery founded by Ivan C. Karp in the SoHo area of Manhattan. Exhibition files, artists' files, printed material, and photographic materials reveal the wide range of artists represented by OK Harris and the gallery's role in introducing Photo-realism to the public. Also included are administrative files, prints by OK Harris artists, business and personal correspondence, 39 journals by Karp spanning a period of 62 years, and other personal papers. Material pre-dating the 1969 establishment of OK Harris Works of Art consists of printed items and a few letters.
Correspondence, both professional and personal, is with museums, galleries, art dealers, art collectors, and graduate students. Artists John Baeder, Deborah Butterfield, John Clem Clarke, John DeAndrea, Jim Dine, Leonard Dufresne, Robert Ginder, Ralph Goings, Duane Hanson, Richard McLean and Tom Wesselmann are among the correspondents.
Admininstrative files concern the daily operation of OK Harris Works of Art. Included are instructions regarding administrative functions and forms for routine activities to enable employees to conduct business in Ivan Karp's absence. Along with files about other items occasionally sold at the gallery, there are files about projects of interest to the Karps, sample announcements, invitations, and advertisements.
Exhibition files document group shows, collectibles and antique exhibitions, summer invitationals, and special event exhibitions at OK Harris Works of Art. The files include photographs and slides, schedules, lists of titles and prices, artists' resumes, installation layouts, reviews and publicity materials, and other items.
Artist files constitute the largest series in the collection at 34 linear feet, and document the gallery's relationships with artists throughout its 45 year history. Files are comprised of biographical information, correspondence, notes, publicity and other printed material (including a few items pre-dating the gallery). Among the many transactions recorded are arrangements for and documentation of solo exhibitions at OK Harris. There are photographs, slides and color transparencies of individual works, and some views of exhibition installations. John Baeder, Muriel Castanis, Don Celender, Ralph Goings, John Kacere, Richard McLean, Robert Rohm and John Salt are among the most extensively documented artists.
Printed material produced by OK Harris Works of Art includes exhibition catalogs, exhibition announcements, invitations, checklists, price lists posters, and notices of gallery sponsored events and activities. Printed material from other sources consists of exhibition reviews, articles about Ivan and Marilynn Karp, OK Harris Works of Art, and the gallery's artists. These appeared in art and mainstream periodicals, newspapers, exhibition catalogs, and books. Also found are posters, reproductions of artwork, and miscellaneous printed items.
Artwork consists of 40 prints by artists affiliated with OK Harris. Most are signed; 2 are black and white prints, the remainder are color lithographs. Included is Radical Realism I, a set of 6 prints issued by Mother Lode Editions, 1972.
Thirty-two linear feet of photographs, negatives, slides, transparencies and digital images are of artwork by OK Harris artists, exhibition installation views, and miscellaneous subjects. Photographs of artwork by 59 OK Harris artists are found in binders called "Artists' Photo Books." Installation views of exhibitions held at OK Harris Works of Art during its 45 year history fill 61 binders. Miscellaneous subjects include OK Harris office space, galleries and staff. Also found are photographs of group shows, art fairs, and gallery artists' exhibitions at other venues.
The Ivan C. Karp personal papers include obituaries from print and internet sources along with other biographical information, published versions of brief interviews conducted for various purposes, writings, a few materials relating to business and academic activities, and some personal photographs. Journals, 1950-2012 (bulk 1991-2012) record travel, daily activities, and reflections.
The personal and professional correspondence of Ivan C. Karp includes letters addressed to Ivan Karp, Marilynn Gelfman Karp, the couple, and to the gallery. Typed letters, e-mail, and handwritten items sometimes show Karp's canny sense of humor. Included are Karp's responses to detailed questions from graduate students and art professionals regarding his areas of expertise, as well as letters of reference or support. Many letters from established members of the art world and others express gratitude to the Karps for their helpfulness and generosity. Correspondents include museums, schools, galleries, dealers, collectors, and artists.
Some items of note include a letter from Chuck Close asking for Karp's support for a fellow artist with a neurological disorder. Correspondence between Marilynn Gelfman-Pereira Karp and Jasper Johns (signed in his absence by assistant Mark Lancaster) is about stabilizing Savarin Coffee Can with Brushes. An e-mail from President Obama to "Ivan" thanks him for supporting the passage of the Affordable Health Care Act. Letters from Karp to Hilton Kramer and William Grimes express his opinions on issues of the day. More typical, are letters written by Karp concerning gallery business and his opinions about the value or authenticity of specific works.
Holiday cards received by the Karps are mostly handmade. Also found are letters to art critic Andy Grundberg of The New York Times questioning why he seldom reviews exhibitions at OK Harris Works of Art; many of these letters are blind copies received by Karp.
This series documents the manner in which OK Harris Works of Art conducted business. There are forms for recurring activities, statements of business practices, and materials to guide gallery personnel in dealings with visitors and artists. Other records concern experiments with selling postcards, reproductions, and the OK Now Watch at the gallery. Also found are samples of announcements, invitations, advertising, and a few files on miscellaneous projects that were important to Ivan and Marilynn Karp.
Exhibition files document a small number of group exhibitions, collectibles and antique exhibitions (from private collections), summer invitationals, and special event exhibitions. The files include a wide range of materials in varying combinations, among them: price lists, resumes, installation layouts, press releases, exhibition announcements, brochures, clippings of reviews, photographs and slides of artwork and exhibition installations.
Files of note include "Ivan's Choices: Icons of Hyper-Realism" (2012 January 6-2013 March 2) and "Ivan C. Karp: People/Places, 1948-1963" (2013 January 6-March 2); both exhibitions were selected and arranged by Karp. Also of interest are records regarding the final show held by OK Harris Works of Art (2014 March 9-April 18) featuring work by many of the gallery's artists.
Artist files consist of business and personal correspondence, biographical information, checklists, contracts, receipts, printed material, photographs, slides and color transparencies in various combinations. The files document arrangements for exhibitions, loans, consignments, shipping, and miscellaneous transactions with OK Harris Works of Art. The most extensively documented artists are: John Baeder, Muriel Castanis, Don Celender, Ralph Goings, John Kacere, Richard McLean, Robert Rohm and John Salt. Files regarding Don Celender include many of his surveys that were exhibited at OK Harris. Ephemera from Celender exhibitions consists of three different boxes for "OK Harris Art Crackers" based on the traditional animal cracker box, and two Chinese take out cartons of "Art Dealers Fortune Cookies" and "Art Curators Fortune Cookies."
Includes digital photographs of diners, scans of artworks depicting diners, a word processing document titled, "Chapter 6 - The Final Chaper: Doing Archaeology," and digital photographs of the exhibit, "Pleasant Journeys and Good Eats Along the Way, A Retrospective Exhibition of Paintings by John Baeder," that took place between December 8, 2007, and March 9, 2008, at the Morris Museum of Art.
Includes a digital video recording of Castanis' final show at the OK Harris Gallery presented in slideshow format.
Includes a digital video recording of Castanis' digitized scrapbook presented in slideshow format.
Digital video recordings of Muriel Castanis' archive of scultpture-based artworks in slideshow format.
A digital video recording and documentary short titled, In Search of the Toy, produced by Great Jones Productions with a running time of 7 minutes and 38 seconds.
Digital video recording of Muriel 'Aerial' Castanis in her New York City studio.
Includes 23 digital photographs of Constantine's series, "Poetic Licenses."
Includes digitized scans of Constantine's nine anamorphic paintings and five drawings created in 2007.
Includes digitized artworks of Del Grosso's painting, including still lifes of fruits and vegetables, Hershey's Kisses, lighters, American currency, and flashlights.
Includes digitized scans of Fisher's artworks, as well as two versions of his resume.
Includes a digitized scan of Fox's artwork, "Plume."
Includes a digital video recording of a segment from HGTV's, "Look What I Did!" episode, featuring Giese's Italian-themed home.
Printed material produced by OK Harris Works of Art includes a complete set of exhibition announcements. Scattered among the announcements are a small number of invitations to gallery events including receptions, openings, a sock hop, a few performances, concerts, and parties. Although OK Harris presented as many as six concurrent exhibitions every six weeks, the number of exhibition catalogs and posters is very small, reflecting the tight schedule. Earlier printed material is particularly creative and unique, each announcement carving out an attention getting and occasionally humorous approach, some with modest shock value. The graphics are usually interesting as are the materials used. Over time, OK Harris's printed items became more traditional with postcard style announcements predominating.
Printed material produced by others consists of periodicals, books, exibition catalogs, guidebooks and clippings. Most are about or mention Ivan Karp, Marilyn Karp, gallery artists and exhibitions. Exhibition catalogs feature works by OK Harris artists and works loaned by the gallery; also included are catalogs of shows for which Karp was a juror. Miscellaneous items relate to events with Karp as a speaker or juror. Scattered throughout is general information about SoHo and Photo-realism. Exhibition Posters are: "Amerikanske Realister," Randers Kunstmuseum; "Ivan C. Karp Photographs," California State University, Long Beach; "Los Angeles Heute," Amerika Haus; and "Ivan Karp: The Face of Contemporary Art," Hong Kong Institute for Promotion of Chinese Culture. Miscellaneous posters are: "Walt Disney" by W. Fawcett, "Marihuana" (sic), "Artist being Booked for Exhibiting Without Talent," "Biscuits" by Manuel Hughes, and "Davis Cone."
Oversized material housed in OV 88
This series consists of 40 prints by OK Harris artists. With the exception of two black and white prints, all are color lithographs. Radical Realism I is a set of six signed and numbered prints (an edition of 200) by John Clem Clarke, Richard Estes, Ralph Goings, Richard McLean, Malcolm Morley, and John Salt issued by Mother Lode Editions in 1972. Other color lithographs are by John Baeder, Robert Bechtle, Davis Cone, Ralph Goings, Randy Green, H. N. Han, John Kacere, Richard McLean, Naoto Nakagawa, and John Salt; one bears an illegible signature.
Photographic materials consist of photographs, slides, negatives, and digital images of artwork by artists associated with OK Harris Works of Art and views of the gallery's exhibition installations from 1960s-2014. The majority of photographs and slides carry identifying information, e.g., titles, dates, media, and photographic credits.
Artists' photo books consist of copy prints of artwork by 59 artists actively represented by OK Harris Works of Art and by artists formerly associated with the gallery. Artists' slides are of artwork that was exhibited at OK Harris and other galleries from the 1960s-2000s.
Installation views preserved in 61 binders document solo exhibitions and other shows presented at OK Harris during its 45 year history. Negatives of OK Harris installations photographed by Eric Pollitzer and Dan Lenore include numbered references, but no key is included. Other installation views include exhibitions by gallery artists at other venues, e.g., the Brevard Museum, New England College and the Studio Art Centers International.
Photographs of miscellaneous subjects include a photo book of the gallery's artists exhibiting at art expositions, art fairs, and museums, among them Tokyo Art Expo (1991), the Nevada Institute for Contemporary Art (1994), and the Chicago Art Fair (1999, 2002). Of particular interest are photographs of exhibition openings at 19 Galerie Des 4 Mouvements in Paris and at Galerie de Gestlo in Dusseldorf held during the 1970s. Also found are loose miscellaneous photographs, and an album of photographs of the OK Harris Works of Art galleries, office, and staff including Ivan Karp.
The Ivan C. Karp papers consist mainly of journals that record travel and daily life. There are a large number of obituaries from print and internet sources along with other biographical information, published versions of brief interviews with Karp conducted for various purposes, writings, a few materials relating to business and academic activities, and some photographs.
The majority of this series consists of photocopies of Ivan C. Karp's journals from the period 1950-2012 (bulk 1991-2012). The earliest are travel journals written during trips to Italy, Spain, France, and more unusual destinations such as Bulgaria, Tunisia, Egypt, Poland, and Guatemala. The observant and thoughtful young Ivan Karp included salient details of travel and everyday life. Some entries are accompanied by drawings, and his interest in wordplay is evident. Later daily journals, written when Karp was an established art dealer, are more organized and less personal. Photographs, clippings, maps, and wine labels are occasionally included to illustrate statements or add interest. He wrote about scheduled activities, food and wine, sports, music, politics, and often commented on the weather. While daily journals record travel experiences at home and abroad, little mention is made of family or friends.
Writings by Karp include articles, introductions and essays for exhibition catalogs, and a chapter in a book about the business of art. Among the writings by others is I Married an Art Dealer by Marilynn Karp. Also found are an academic paper, "Reflections on American Super Realism and Photo Realism" by Michael Jucker, and a dissertation by Suzanne Pines, "Five Photo-Realists: Process and Perceptions" (Columbia University, 1979). Among the small number of photographs are several digital copies of earlier images of Karp including him in uniform during World War II and several at his gallery.
The Roy Leeper and Gaylord Hall collection of Miné Okubo papers measure 1.4 linear feet and date from circa 1940 to 2001. Roy Leeper and Gaylord Hall were long-time friends with and patrons of Okubo from the late 1950s until her death. The collection contains letters, writings, and sketches by Okubo. Among the printed materials is a copy of the 1944 special edition of Fortune magazine which was sympathetic to Japanese Americans interned during World War II and for which Okubo was hired to illustrate. Also found are scattered documents relating to Hall and Leeper.
Biographical materials consist of Roy Leeper's medical licenses. The bulk of the collection is comprised of Miné Okubo's letters, many of which are illustrated, to Hall and Leeper discussing her health, career, their purchase of her artwork, and mutual friends. Other correspondents include Howard Hamilton and Doris and Harry Tono. Writings and notes by Okubo include a statement about the pricing of her artwork and a list of artwork. Leeper and Hall's personal business records concern the purchase and loan of Okubo's artwork for exhibitions.
Printed materials include a 1944 edition of Fortune magazine devoted to the internment of Japanese Americans during World War II. The issue includes reproductions of Okubo's illustrations of life in the World War II internment camp in Topaz, Utah. Photographs include snapshots of Okubo at an exhibition with her art and of works of art. Sketches and drawings depict mostly cats and flowers.
Biographical materials include Dr. Roy Leeper's medical licenses from the states of Virginia and California.
The bulk of this series consists of letters from Miné Okubo to Gaylord Hall and Roy Leeper. Many of the letters begin by mentioning her mood or health and she often inquires about the health and activities of Hall and Leeper and their mutual friends, although they do not tend to be overly personal. Okubo references her artistic process, specific artworks purchased by or of interest to Hall and Leeper, and acknowledges receipt of payment for a work of art. Many of the letters are illustrated in pen or colored pencil.
There is also one letter from Leeper to Okubo; a letter to Howard Hamilton; and scattered letters between Doris and Harry Tono, Okubo, and Leeper and Hall.
Writings by Miné Okubo include a statement concerning the pricing for her artwork and a list of works of art. There is also one note, likely written by Roy Leeper.
Personal business records mostly concern Roy Leeper's and Gaylord Hall's purchase and loan of artwork by Miné Okubo. There are price lists; receipts and statements for payments received by Okubo, many of which mention specific works of art; and records from loans of their Miné Okubo artwork to the San Francisco Museum of Art and the Oakland Museum of Art for exhibition. A certificate of authenticity is for a Japanese ivory figurine, although it is not clear who owned the piece.
Printed materials concern Okubo's career as an artist and writer, including her experiences in the World War II Japanese American confinement camp in Topaz, Utah. There is a brochure and program for award events, clippings, a publication in Japanese concerning Executive Order 9066, exhibition announcements, issues of periodicals; and a poster featuring Okubo as a courageous California woman. Also found is the 1944 issue of Fortune magazine featuring Okubo's illustrations for two articles, "Issei, Nisei, Kibei" and "The Citizen-Subject...Tightens His Belt and Wipes Off His Smile."
Oversized material housed in Box 2, F1
Oversized material housed in Box 2, F3
Oversized material housed in OV3
Photographs are of Miné Okubo with her art at an exhibition; portraits of Roy Leeper or Gaylord Hall; and photographs of Okubo's works of art.
Found here are Okubo's painted sketches and drawings depicting cats and flowers, some of which may have been used for her holiday cards.
Oversized material housed in Box 2, F2
The notes of painter and sculptor Jules Olitski to Joan Olitski measure 0.02 linear feet and date from 1981-2004. The collection comprises of ten humorous love notes, some illustrated, written by Jules Olitski to his wife, Joan. Olitski wrote the notes to his wife (also known as Kristina) in the morning when he left his studio after working through the night.
Ten humorous love notes written by Jules Olitski to his wife, Joan. Olitski wrote the notes to his wife (also known as Kristina) in the morning when he left his studio after working through the night. Included in these notes are a pen and ink sketch of a boy, a love poem, an a photo of a woman.
The papers of artist and educator Jules Olitski measure 3.2 linear feet and date from 1950-2012. The collection sheds light on Olitski's career through writing files that consist of drafts, edits, and some correspondence; printed material such as newspaper clippings and articles, exhibition material, and published writings; portrait photographs of the artist; and sound and video recordings from interviews and lectures.
The majority of the collection consists of printed material that provides comprehensive coverage of Olitski's career including announcements, catalogs, and newspaper clippings from Olitski's exhibitions at galleries and museums. Sound and video recordings are of interviews with Olitski related to exhibitions of his work and of lectures given by Olitski at Brown University, the University of Miami, and the National Museum of American History, and other locations. The bulk of these recordings date from the 1990s.
Included are drafts of several articles and exhibition catalog essays written about Olitski throughout his career. Some of the folders may contain edits and comments made by Olitski and the authors, printed material, and scant correspondence.
Articles and clippings include writings and reviews regarding Olitski, his shows, his artwork, the abstract expressionist art scene that Olitski was active in, and more by critics John Canaday, Irving Sandler, Hilton Kramer, and others. Also found here are advertisements for Olitski's shows and excerpts about Olitski from books. Exhibition material includes announcements, invitations, catalogs, and some posters from group and solo shows. Published writings by Olitski consist of writings on art, his own career, and poetry. The series also includes ephemeral materials related to Olitski's lectures and other events, bulletins and newsletters, and reproductions of Olitski's art.
The series consists of portrait snapshots taken of Olitski throughout his career and photographs of the artist at an awards dinner.
Found here are sound and video recordings from various interviews, lectures, and talks given by Olitski at universities, museums, and on radio. Of particular note is a video recording from Olitski's dedication of his work, "Elyon," at the Beth Tzedec Congregation Synagogue in 1990.
A monologue delivered 1980 Sept. 7 by Nathan Oliveira. Oliveira comments on his third interview session with Paul Karlstrom.
This small collection of papers of Cuban born sculptor and painter Tomás Oliva measure 0.2 linear feet and date from circa 1969-1996. Found among the papers are a chronology; life documents; exhibition catalogs, including one from the 1993 exhibition of three of the original Los Once Cuban artist's group forty years after their first exhibition in Havana; one letter from Cyndee Levy-Angulo; notes and poetry; a photograph of Oliva with José Antonio Díaz Peláez; photographs of sculpture, two sketchbooks; and loose sketches and doodles.
Tomás Oliva's papers include an artist's chronology compiled by Juan Espinosa Almodóvar, certificates of marriage and naturalization, and a letter from Cyndee Levy-Angulo thanking Oliva for donating a pastel to raise funding for a neonatal intensive care unit at the University of Miami. Also found among the papers are photocopies of articles and reviews about Oliva, his artwork, and the Cuban artists' collective Los Once, including a copy of the 1993 exhibition Hugo Consuegra, Guido Llinás, and Tomás Oliva: A Reunion.
There are ink, pen, and pencil sketches of sculpture and doodles and 2 sketchbooks; notes and poetry written in Spanish by Oliva; photographs of sculpture by Oliva and a snapshot of Oliva with the artist José Antonio Díaz Peláez.
An interview with Anna Wetherill Olmsted conducted 1973 by Dean Freundlich
Photographs of Olmsted's sculpture of the head of Michelangelo for the San Francisco Junior College and a copy of a speech delivered during Homecoming to dedicate his works, April 27, 1941.
Letters from Frederick Law Olmsted to Charles J. Stille, July 25 and Oct. 19, 1862, Feb. 25, 1863, and undated.
A copy of a typescript of two letters from Church to Olney, dated March 27, 1891 and November 30, 1896.
13 studio notebooks and travel journals; and drafts of unpublished manuscripts.
REELS 1452-1453: Thirteen studio notebooks and travel journals, 1951-1973, containing numerous illustrations in watercolor, ink, and pencil, plus notes, observations, ideas for books and paintings, travel experiences, notes on art seen, etc. Onslow-Ford travelled to Japan, Hong Kong, Thailand, Tibet, India, Egypt, England, France, Spain, Central America, and Mexico.
UNMICROFILMED: Drafts of two unpublished manuscripts: an early version of "Instant Painting," ca. 1960-1961, and "Creation," summer of 1971.
ADDITION: Two draft calligraphic manuscripts for "Creation," ca. 1978, 44 oversize pages total.
The Organization of Independent Artists records measure 28.4 linear feet and date from circa 1970s to circa 2003. The records include administrative records, correspondence, exhibition and installation files, artists' files, financial and legal records, printed material, seven scrapbooks, and photographs.
Administrative records include scattered files about the board of directors/trustees, the advisory board, membership, events, gallery rental space, loans, other organizations, and the general history of the OIA. Also found are exhibitions lists, schedules, and proposals, as well as drafts of OIA printed materials. Correspondence with artists, board members, donors, financial institutions, and other organizations is found in many of the files.
Exhibition and installation files comprise the bulk of the records and include files for the Annual OIA Salon Show, the OIA Sculpture Garden assembled annually on the grounds of the Manhattan Psychiatric Center on Ward's Island, several shows of Selections from the Slide Files, as well as numerous other group exhibitions and installations.
The artists' files contain a variety of materials, including photographs, and are found for Hera, Tom Klem, Mary Shaffer and a few others. Financial and legal records document the organization's many grant applications, invoices and bills paid, tax materials, and legal issues. Printed materials include OIA newsletters, show announcements and brochures, and exhibition materials and clippings. There is one clippings scrapbook and six scrapbooks of exhibition materials. Photographs depict exhibitions and installations as well as artwork; additional photographs of exhibitions are also filed with the exhibition files.
Administrative records include board of directors' materials and membership files, OIA event materials and information, art council and art organization files, general administrative records, committee materials, history and founding documents, a few general exhibition planning files, and artist and project contracts. Also found are drafts of OIA printed material, such as brochures, newsletters, and calendars, as well as intern files, requests for shows, supplies, and information for a proposed 11th anniversary book. Information files and applications for the OIA Warren Tanner Memorial Art Fund are also included here.
Scattered correspondence is with other arts organizations and prospective installation organizations, artists, OIA board of directors, the Cultural Council Foundation, and the General Services Administration. Correspondence concerns exhibitions, donations, financial and fundraising matters, press and publicity, and the search for a permanent office space for the organization.
Exhibition and installation files include photographs and slides, exhibition announcement cards, posters, press releases, brochures, catalogs, correspondence, and price lists, as well as three guest books for various exhibitions. Among the many exhibitions and installations represented within the files are the OIA China Project (1981), Drawing on Dance (1982), Intuition and the Block Print (1984), The Ways of Wood (1984), Hanging Loose (1984), JFK Airport Project (1990), Maps and Madness (1991), Eye on Art (1992, 1993), and many others. Also included are the many OIA Sculpture Garden installations on the grounds of the Manhattan Psychiatric Center on Ward's Island, OIA Salon Shows, OIA Selections from the Slide Files, and OIA Critics' Choice shows.
Artists' files contain various resume materials, slides, and photographs about artists, including Hera, Tom Klem, Mary Shaffer (includes one videocassette), and a few others.
Found here are award letters for grants received; grant applications and information; budget materials; check stubs; consultant agreements; deposit books; an event ledger for "Rubin's Roast"; nine exhibition and operations ledgers; fundraising information and funding materials; invoices, bills, and receipts; liability and program insurance materials; receipt books; tax materials and exemptions; Warren Tanner Memorial Fund savings accounts; and legal materials concerning the Richard Serra sculpture debate and the position of the executive director.
Oversized material housed in Box 29, Folder 1.
Printed materials include newspaper and magazine clippings, press releases, flyers, OIA newsletters, and reviews. Also included are exhibition announcements and postcards, exhibition catalogs, and posters.
Oversized material housed in Box 29, Folder 2, and OV30.
Seven dismantled clippings and exhibition scrapbooks contain exhibition materials, slides and photographs, clippings, price lists, and artists' lists, among other materials.
Photographs depict artwork, exhibitions, and installations. Additional exhibition photographs are found in the exhibition files.
Oversized material housed in Box 29, Folder 3.
The records of the Origin Gallery measure 1.5 linear feet and date from 1961 to 1982. The records primarily consist of sales records cards and either business cards or index cards for galleries and dealers, and for experts in specific subject matter such as woodworking, Egyptian jewelry, and Japanese masks. The sales records cards contain information including buyer contact information, invoice number, description of item purchased, price, and whether item was purchased in full or in installments.
Correspondence (1929-1984), a price list, subject files, notes, writings, art works (1929-1935), scrapbooks, printed material (1931-1984), and photographs document the life and career of Elliot Orr.
Reel D23 (frames 905-1246): One hundred twenty-five letters exchanged between Orr, his wife Elizabeth, and Frederic Fairchild Sherman discuss their art work (1934-1940). Other materials consist of a 6-page typescript, ELLIOT ORR: A CONTEMPORARY AMERICAN PAINTER, by Marchal Landgren and an exhibition catalog for Orr (1936). A scrapbook about Frederic Fairchild Sherman contains clippings, photographs of works of art and illustrated poems by Sherman (1938-1940).
Reel 497: Letters were exchanged between Elliot Orr and his colleagues, dealers, galleries, and purchasers. Correspondents include Lester Burbank Bridaham, Marchal Landgren, Macbeth Gallery, Vose Galleries, Whitney Museum of American Art, and Wildenstein Galleries (1935-1955). Other materials consist of a curriculum vitae (1938), a Christmas card (1935), a clipping, and 3 exhibition catalogs (1938-1956).
Unfilmed: Correspondence, primarily between Orr, his family, and his colleagues including Frederic Fairchild Sherman (1929-1984), includes one letter with a sketch of "Andrews Mill and Farm". Subject files contain letters, printed material, and photographs concerning Orr's work for the Federal Art Project of Massachusetts (1938-1974) and the auction of Orr's collection of primitive art (1961-1969). Other materials consist of lists of works of art, a hand-made book, SONNETS, containing poems by Sherman and illustrated by Orr (1940), and a price list of works consigned to the Munson Gallery (1972).
Unfilmed: Art works include 6 studies for Orr's painting MacDOUGAL STREET (1935) and a sketch of Orr by Eugene Thomason (1929). Three scrapbooks contain letters, clippings, and exhibition announcements and catalogs (1928-1942). Printed material includes clippings (1931-1984), exhibition catalogs (1934-1984), and 2 books, ROMANTIC PAINTING IN AMERICA (1943) and AMERICAN WATER COLORS, DRAWINGS, AND PRINTS (1952), which contain reproductions of Orr's works. An album contains photographs of Orr, his family, home, and studio (1910-1957). Other photographs show Frederic Fairchild Sherman (1940) and Orr's works of art.
Mainly correspondence regarding the acquisition of portraits and paintings for the Orton Memorial Library of Geology, Ohio State University,Columbus; biographical sketches; sketches; financial material; and clippings.
REELS 1814-1815: 634 letters regarding the acquisition of portrait paintings of state geologists and landscape paintings with rock formations for the library; 5 brief biographical sketches of artists and writers; clippings; 3 sketches; bills; and receipts.
REEL 3161: Correspondence, 1922-1926, regarding the acquisition by the library of one painting by Thomas Moran and two paintings by Albert Bierstadt.
Letters to Osborne and Simmons from friends, gallery owners, and colleagues, among others, including some about their use of synthetic resin paints; 83 photographs; 70 clippings, catalogs, essays and other printed materials. Correspondents include H. Daniel Webster, F. Valentine Dudensing, Walter M. Grant, Robert Henri, and Onya LaTour. Also included is one letter from Thomas Hart Benton to Mrs. Brett Osborne, daughter in law of Lue and Cordray. She had inherited their paintings and asked Benton's advice what to do with them.
The papers of painter and assemblage artist Alfonso Ossorio measure 0.7 linear feet and date from 1949 to 1985. The papers document Ossorio's career through correspondence, writings, printed material, and photographs.
Correspondence consists primarily of letters from Jean Dubuffet and Clyfford Still. Also included are xeroxed letters from Jackson Pollock and Lee Krasner. Writings consist of notes and draft manuscripts for the "Fourteen Paintings" exhibition catalog essay, some notes on a list of Pollock artwork, a lecture on Pollock, and a lecture by Dubuffet. Printed material consists of clippings, exhibition announcements and posters, exhibition catalogs, and an article on Ossorio. Photographic material consists of photographs of Ossorio and his colleagues, photographs of works of art, exhibitions and opening receptions, and photographs of works by Gregg Blasdel.
Correspondence consists primarily of letters from Jean Dubuffet and Clyfford Still. Also included are xeroxed letters from Jackson Pollock and Lee Krasner.
Writings consist of notes and draft manuscripts for the "Fourteen Paintings" exhibition catalog essay, some notes on a list of Pollock's artwork, a lecture on Pollock, and a lecture by Dubuffet.
Printed material consists of clippings, exhibition announcements and posters, exhibition catalogs, and an article on Ossorio in the The Sunday Times Magazine.
Photographic material consists of photographs of Ossorio and his colleagues, photographs of works of art, photographs of exhibitions and opening receptions, and photographs of works by Gregg Blasdel.
Correspondence; an unpublished autobiography; miscellaneous writings; clippings; exhibition catalogs and announcements; printed matter relating to the Educational Alliance Art School and Bezalel Art Society of America; and a scrapbook of clippings. Correspondents include Peter Blume, Elias Grossman, Louis Lozowick, Philip Evergood, Moses Soyer, Maxwell Anderson and Leo Jackinson.
A lecture delivered by O'Sullivan at the National Collection of the Fine Arts, July 12, 1973.
The papers of New York artist, critic, historian, writer, art consultant and curator Walter Pach, measure 20.7 linear feet and date from 1857-1980. The collection documents Pach's promotion of modernism through his role in the landmark 1913 Armory Show, his relationships with artists and art-world figures and his extensive writings on art. Records include biographical material, correspondence with family, friends and colleagues including noted artists, handwritten and edited versions of manuscripts by Pach, diaries and journals, business records, printed material, scrapbooks, sketchbooks and artwork by Pach and others, and photographs of Pach and his family, friends, and colleagues. The collection also includes 12 linear feet of selections from Walter Pach's library.
Biographical material includes a copy of Pach's birth certificate and two passports for Walter and Magda Pach, in addition to address books, association membership cards and certificates.
Correspondence is both personal and professional. Family correspondence includes letters from Pach's son, Raymond, his first wife Magdalene (Magda), and his second wife Nikifora, whom he married in 1951 following the 1950 death of Magda. General correspondence includes letters from artists including Jean Charlot, Arthur B. Davies, Marcel Duchamp, Raymond Duchamp-Villon, Jacques Lipchitz, Henri Matisse, Claude Monet, Maurice Prendergast, Diego Rivera, Morton Livingston Schamberg, John Sloan, and Jacques Villon; and other art-world figures including writers Van Wyck Brooks and Elie Faure, and Bryson Burroughs, curator of painting at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
The Writings series represents an extensive collection of hand-written manuscripts, typescripts, annotated drafts and notes for published and unpublished writings by Pach, including lectures, monographs such as Queer Thing, Painting and Ananias, or The False Artist, and journal and newspaper articles such as "Pierre-Auguste Renoir" (1912).
Diaries and journals include one of particular note recording Pach's trip to Europe circa 1903-1904, with William Merritt Chase's class.
Business records include 2 notebooks recording sales at the Armory Show in New York, Boston and Chicago, a record book with handwritten lists of paintings owned and sold by Pach in the early 1930s, and two books, one maintained by Nikifora Pach, recording pictures sold, lectures and publications by Pach from the early 1900s to the early 1960s.
Printed material documents Pach's career through exhibition catalogs of Pach's solo and group exhibitions, news clippings about Pach, including reviews of his writings on art, and an almost comprehensive collection of copies of Pach's published journal and newspaper articles.
Scrapbooks include a book of reviews and original letters pertaining to Pach's book Ananias or the False Artist, and a scrapbook documenting Pach's activities during the 1920s which included his first one-man show at the Brummer Gallery in New York and the publication of his books Masters of Modern Art and Raymond Duchamp-Villon.
Artwork inlcudes a small group of drawings and three sketchbooks by Pach. Also of note are two print portfolios published in 1947 by the Laurel Gallery which include an essay and an etching by Pach, in addition to hand-pulled prints by artists such as Milton Avery, Reginald Marsh and Joan Miro.
Photographs are of Pach from childhood through to the 1950s, in addition to Magda and Raymond Pach and other family members, artists, colleagues and friends. Included are photographs of William Merritt Chase's class and Robert Henri's class at the New York School of Art, circa 1904, and photos of artists including Robert Henri, Moriye Ogihara, and Pablo Picasso. Photographs of artwork by Pach and other artists can also be found here including Mexican mural projects by José Clemente Orozco and Diego Rivera, and works by Antoine-Louise Barye and George Of.
Selections from Pach's library include works written by or translated by Pach, and items central to Pach's interests and work.
This series includes a copy of Pach's birth certificate, high school and college graduation programs, Pach's 1948 passport, and association and club certificates and membership cards. A leather satchel containing passports for Walter Pach (1929) and Magda Pach (1937) in addition to documents relating to Magda Pach's family and her education at Hunter College, can also be found here. A leather wallet includes identification cards and photographs of Magda and her father, Auguste Frohberg.
Fragments from a 1925 day book include names and addresses and a handwritten autobiographical sketch. A 1938 day book also contains names and addresses.
Additional records relating to the Pach family include Magda Pach's certificate of attendance at the New York University Department of Fine Arts summer school in 1926, an obituary, and a funeral guest book for Magda Pach; death notices for Gotthelf Pach; and a birth certificate receipt and a military intelligence training center course certificate (1944) for Raymond Pach.
Oversized material housed in Box 9, Folder 1
Oversized material housed in Box 9, Folder 2
Oversized material scanned with Box 1, Folder 2
Oversized material scanned with Box 1, Folder 8
This series contains family correspondence and extensive professional letters from noted artists and art world figures including critics, writers, collectors, museums and other art institutions. Scattered letters from Pach can also be found here.
See Appendix for partial chronological list of letters from Series 2.
Found here are letters from Magda to Walter Pach and to his parents from Pach's son Raymond, who spent many years abroad pursuing an operatic career. Included are letters written when Raymond Pach was stationed in Europe at the end of World War II. Raymond Pach's correspondence also includes a 1945 letter from Jacques Villon and snapshots of the Pach family.
Correspondence with Pach's brother, Alfred Pach, and nephew, also named Alfred, includes letters relating to the family businesses of Pach Brothers Photographers, and The Print Galleries.
Correspondence of Pach's parents, Frances Wise and Gotthelf, include letters to Pach and other family members, and letters from Pach's school which provide insight into the mind and abilities of the school-age Pach.
Nikifora Pach's correspondence includes several letters to Pach and drafts of letters to various people written after Pach's death, some of which related to arrangements for events, including an exhibition and a lecture. Also found here is 1 film reel relating to "Youth Center 1" at the Hellenic Eastern Orthodox Church of New York.
Motion picture film stored separately in film can numbered FC 23.
Oversized material from Box 1, Folder 15
This series documents Pach's relationships with artists, writers, collectors, museums and other noted art-world figures throughout his life. Early letters record Pach's role in the 1913 Armory Show and the fate of various artists during World War I. Among artists who corresponded with Pach are Arthur B. Davies, Marcel Duchamp, Raymond Duchamp-Villon, Henri Matisse, Claude Monet, Maurice Prendergast, Diego Rivera, Morton Livingston Schamberg, John Sloan, and Alfred Stieglitz. There are also circa 100 letters from Pach's lifelong friend, Jacques Villon and letters from Thomas Eakins's widow Susan.
Pach's role in the development of the art collections of Walter Arensberg and John Quinn is documented in letters from Marcel Duchamp, Raymond Duchamp-Villon, Raoul Dufy, Jean Le Roy, Georges Roualt, and Frederic C. Torrey. Also of note are letters from Bryson Burroughs, curator of painting at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
Letters from art historians, critics and writers such as Bernard Berenson, Van Wyck Brooks, Elie Faure and Leo Stein document their responses to Pach's writings on art, and provide insight into the flow of avant-garde ideas from Europe and their reception abroad. These letters also provide documentation of the European and American art markets in the early twentieth century by referencing responses to, and sales of, work by individual artists.
Letter from Rufus Clement includes photos of Pach and others at an exhibition, probably Atlanta University, circa 1945
Includes sympathy letter on Magda Pach's death from Ralph and Fanny Ellison
Includes letter from Alfred Stieglitz to Mr. Huebach
Includes photo of Mercereau
Includes corresondence with Nikifora Pach regarding the Armory Show 50th Anniversary Exhibition.
Correspondence with various publishers regarding Pach's manuscript
Includes letters (one is illustrated) from Xavier Martinez
Includes legal records, some relating to a visa for Nikifora Pach and the estate of Magda Pach
Writings comprise hand-written manuscripts, typescripts, annotated drafts and notes for published and unpublished writings by Pach, including lectures and addresses, books, and journal and newspaper articles. Also found are school essays and writings, and fragments, memoranda and notes. Of particular note is a bound, 242 page manuscript handwritten with illustrations and photographs which Pach wrote on the subject of aesthetics while at City College of New York.
Writings by others include poems, book chapters, articles and prose by Apollinaire, Baudelaire, Faure, Le Roy, Roualt, Villon and others.
Many of the handwritten and edited typescript versions of published and unpublished manuscripts found here are written on the backs of pages containing pencil figure studies by Pach, showing his dual concerns as an artist and writer.
The series contains the original 381 page typescript of Queer Thing, Painting with handwritten revisions; drafts of essays, and notebooks of addresses and lectures, circa 1920s-1950s, documenting classes which Pach taught at the University of California at Berkeley, Columbia University and the University of Mexico amongst others; and drafts of miscellaneous published and unpublished writings.
The series contains a 242 page bound manuscript, hand-written with illustrations and mounted photographs, entitled "A Course of Lectures on Aesthetics as Delivered by Professor Solomon Woolf and Doctor Leigh Hunt, Before the Senior Class, and as Noted by Walter Pach of Section Five."
Memoranda, fragments of writings and notes as well as a card index noting works of art can be found at the end of the series. A folder of lists includes one labeled "Fuchs Daumier" and one entitled "Collection of the Duc de Trévise, Galerie Charpentier, May 19, 1938" with art value or price.
Includes photo of Maurice Prendergast by M.D.C. Crawford and photo of J. Pierpoint Morgan by Pach Brothers
Missing Title
Introduction and Chapter 1
Problems and Theories
The Problem of the American Artist
Casts and Other Reproductions
The Museum and Education
The Museum and the Public
The Museum of the New World
Supplement: A List of Museums of Art in the United States
Missing Title
Preface and Acknowledgements
Introduction
Chapter 1: On Art Museums
Chapter 4: The Achievement
Chapter 5: Problems and Theories and The Problem of the American Artist
Chapter 5: The Museum and the Public
Chapter 6: The Museum of the New World
Supplement
Oversized material housed in Box 9, Folder 3
Oversized material scanned with Box 4, Folder 41
"Lectures on Aesthetics" is Pach's bound manuscript entitled "A Course of Lectures on Aesthetics as Delivered by Professor Solomon Woolf and Doctor Leigh Hunt, Before the Senior Class, and as Noted by Walter Pach of Section Five."
Series includes bibliographic citations, price lists, notes on paintings, lists of people to see, notes for a report to Henry Allen Moe, expenses, notes from readings, recipes for gesso and glue, lists of plates for Faure's History of Art; and research notes on Delacroix, Renoir, and Courbet.
Also found is a set of index cards of artwork arranged A-Z by artist.
Series includes typescripts and handwritten copies of poems, chapters of books, articles, and prose by Apollinaire, Baudelaire, Faure, Le Roy, Mallarmé, Rouault, Villon, and others.
Missing Title
Apollinaire, Guillaume, "The Book of Beasts," 1911
Baudelaire, Charles, "Les Flerus du Mal"
Collier, John, "The Role of Evaluation in Social Research," circa 1953
Cuesta, J., "Song to a Funeral God"
Faure, Elie, "History of Art: Modern Art, chapter 3"
Missing Title
Haigh, Frances S. and Hovey, Angelica V. R., "Walter Pach"
Le Roy, Jean, "Printemps"
Mallarme, Stephane, "Vers et Prose"
Roualt, Georges, "A Little Poem in Popular Style Addressed to an American Who Loves France"
Villon, Jacques, "Expose Preliminaire sur la Peinture, Le Peinture Dans la Societe Moderne," UNESCO International Conference of Artists, 1952
Villon, Jacques, "Les Poilus" ("The Shaggy Men")
Of particular note is a travel diary, dated 1903-1904, recording Pach's trips to Europe with William Merritt Chase's class. The entries include reflections on life abroad, fellow classmates Morton Livingston Schamberg and Charles Sheeler, Pach's early interest in Japonisme and active collecting of Japanese art, including prints by master ukiyo-e artists Hokusai and Hiroshige, and the purchase in Holland of a Manga book (an artist's instructional manual) by Hokusai.
Also included here is a folder of addresses recording Pach's contacts in Mexico in 1942-1943 and an address book with journal entries made during a UNESCO Congress of Critics in Paris, circa 1948.
A "Shelley Birthday Book" notes birthdays of Pach family members and friends.
Of particular note in this series are two record books: one in which Pach recorded sales for the Armory Show, New York beginning February 18th and ending March 15, 1913, listing the person purchasing each picture and the amount paid, and "signed off" with the inscription "OK" and the initials "JM," presumably Jerome Myers; the second in which Pach recorded sales for the Armory Show in Boston and Chicago beginning March 23 and ending April 30, 1913, also signed off by "JM."
Other items of note include an "agenda" book from 1930-1932 which contains lists of paintings owned and sold by Pach in addition to what appears to be an inventory of his belongings, including contents of the Pach apartment; and two record books containing a "record of pictures, writings and lectures," notes on "pictures sold, exchanged or presented," and a list of "places where I have lectured." The books cover the years 1903-1950s.
One folder contains consignment lists for Pach's paintings and etchings at Kraushaar Galleries and E. Weyhe in 1934.
A record book belonging to Nikifora Pach contains notes on loans and sales of pictures in the late 1950s, in addition to enclosures documenting loan and consignment transactions with Zabriskie Gallery, the Museum of Modern Art, and others in the early 1960s. Also found is a photocopy of a list of paintings belonging to Pach and given to Nikifora Pach in the 1950s.
Printed material relating to Pach and others, includes rare exhibition announcements and catalogs such as a 1913 Boston Armory Show catalog annotated with prices, printed articles by Pach and about him including book reviews of his work, reproductions of artwork including postcards from the 1913 Armory Show, news clippings and miscellany.
Printed material by Pach includes announcements and exhibition catalogs for Pach's solo and group exhibitions, including a a 1913 annotated Boston Armory Show catalog. Also found are two booklets written by Pach and published on the occasion of the Armory Show: A Sculptor's Architecture, and Odilon Redon.
Also found here is an almost complete collection of Pach's published articles in the form of the pages from the journals, magazines, and newspapers in which they appeared, including Scribner's Magazine, Dial, Shadowland, Parnassus, and 35 columns writtten for The Freeman between 1920 and 1924.
Other printed material includes announcements and exhibition catalogs for artists other than Pach as well as for a 1937 Pach Brothers exhibition "American Personalities Through Seven Decades," news clippings on subjects of apparent interest to Pach, postcards from the Armory Show and other reproductions of artwork.
Oversized material housed in Box 9, Folder 4
Oversized material housed in Box 9, Folder 5
Oversized material housed in Box 9 Folder 6
Oversized material scanned with Box 6, Folder 36
Oversized material scanned with Box 6, Folder 37
Oversized material scanned with Box 7, Folder 3
Scrapbooks include a dismantled scrapbook of reviews and original letters relating to Pach's book Ananias or the False Artist, published in 1928. Also housed here is a scrapbook primarily documenting Pach's activities during the 1920s which included his first one-man show at the Brummer Gallery in New York City and the publication of his books Masters of Modern Art and Raymond Duchamp-Villon. The scrapbook contains news clippings with press reviews of Pach's work.
A scrapbook of musical and theatrical events and programs includes a program for a 1917 Neighorhood Playhouse production of a Wallace Stevens's play, Bowl, Cat and Broomstick, for which Pach designed the sets. Also found is a guestbook from an unidentified event.
Oversized material housed in Box 9, Folder 7
Oversized material housed in Box 9, Folder 8
Oversized material scanned with Box 7, Folder 9
Oversized material scanned with Box 7, Folder 10
This series consists of a small group of loose drawings and three early sketchbooks by Pach, plus several drawings by unidentified artists. Also included are two print portfolios published in 1947 by the Laurel Gallery, New York City; one includes an essay by Pach and the other an etching by Pach. These portfolios include hand-pulled prints by artists such as Milton Avery, Reginald Marsh, and Joan Miro.
Oversized material housed in Box 10, Folder 1
Oversized material scanned with Box 7, Folder 16
This series includes photographs of Pach, his family, and artists/friends, as well as group pictures of William Merritt Chase's class, Robert Henri's class at the New York School of Art, circa 1904, and others. There are also photographs of works of art by Pach and others. Of special interest is a group of photographs of mural projects in Mexico by José Clemente Orozco and Diego Rivera.
This series includes photographs of Pach from boyhood to the 1950s, including portraits, photos with family members, in his studio and apartment, in group photos and with artists and friends, including Florence Arquin and Diego Rivera. Included is a series of photos by Hansel Mieth of Pach in his studio and with Magda Pach in their home listening to Raymond Pach playing the piano.
Photos of others include the following artists and friends: Edith Bell, William Merritt Chase, Raymond Duchamp-Villon, Thomas Eakins, Arthur B. Frost, Jr., Carl Hauser, Robert Henri, Inna Khabroff, Susan McDonnel, Moriye Ogihara, Pablo Picasso, Eda Puckhaber, and General and Mrs. Webb.
Also of note is a collection of photographs of Pach's apartment, art collection and studio, circa 1959.
Oversized material housed in Box 10, Folder 2
Oversized material scanned with Box 7 Folder 19
Oversized material scanned with Box 7, Folder 22
Oversized material from Box 7, Folder 25
Oversized material from Box 7, Folder 27
Oversized material from Box 7, Folder 35
This series includes photographs of artwork by Pach, Magda Pach and others including a group showing mural projects in Mexico by José Clemente and Diego Rivera, and photos of artwork by Antoine-Louis Barye and George amongst others. Also found is a photographic print and a slide of a model by Raymond Duchamp-Villon, labeled "Facade of a city residence (Model shown at the International Exhibition)" (the Armory Show) by an unknown photogapher; and a series of photographs used for Pach's book The Art Museum in America.
Oversized material housed in Box 10, Folder 3
includes one photographic print and one slide of "Facade of a city residence (Model shown at the International Exhibition)" (the Armory Show) by an unknown photographer.
Oversized material housed in Box 10, Folder 3
Oversized material scanned with Box 8, Folder 13
Oversized material scanned with Box 8, Folder 18
Oversized material scanned with Box 8, Folder 26
Oversized material scanned with Box 8, Folder 31
This series houses selected publications from Walter Pach's libary and include books or publications annotated by him, and written or translated by him. Also found here are items considered to be central to Pach's interests and work.
Includes "The Past Lives On," by Walter Pach, pp. 28-31, 64-66.
Includes second installment of "The Past Lives On," by Walter Pach, pp. 40-43, 64.
Includes "Notes sur le classicisme de Delacroix," by Walter Pach, pp. 241-253.
Includes "Le classicisme de Barye," by Walter Pach, pp. 319-320.
Includes "Extract from an Article on the Half-Century Celebration at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, by Walter Pach in The Freeman," p. 10.
Includes "A Newly Found American Painter," by Walter Pach, pp. 32-43.
Includes "Walkowitz and Tradition," an appreciation by Walter Pach.
Includes " La Barricade in America," by Walter Pach, pp. 42-43, 60.
Includes "Thus Is Cubism Cultivated," by Walter Pach and Jacques Villon, pp. 23-25, 52-53.
Includes "Introducing the Paintings of George Of, 1876-1954," by Walter Pach, pp. 36-38, 62-63. Two copies.
Includes "Georges Seurat," by Walter Pach, pp. 160-174.
Includes article by Walter Pach.
Includes "The Artist and the Democratic Way of Life," by Walter Pach, pp. 493-505.
Includes "The Stake of the Arts in the Democratic Way of Life: A Postscript," by Walter Pach, pp. 743-755.
Includes "The Portrait of a Painter," by Walter Pach, pp. 2-3.
Includes "The Point of View of the Moderns," by Walter Pach, pp. 851-864.
Includes "Marinot, Artist and Artisan," by Walter Pach, and a caricature of him by Aline Fruhauf, p. 203.
Includes "The Art of the American Indian," by Walter Pach, pp. 57-65.
Walter Pach is a correspondent.
Includes review by Walter Pach of Idols behind Altars, by Anita Brenner, p. 30.
Includes "Raymond Duchamp-Villon," by Walter Pach, pp. 84-85.
Includes "Raymond Duchamp-Villon (1876-1918)," by Walter Pach.
Includes "The Greatest American Artists," by Walter Pach, pp. 252-262.
Includes "What Passes for Art: Some Reflections on Contemporary Painters," by Walter Pach, pp. 89-97.
Includes "Rockefeller, Rivera, and Art," by Walter Pach.
Walter Pach was a member of the Honorary Committee.
Includes an original etching by Walter Pach as the frontispiece.
Partial publication. Includes "Impresiones sobre el arte actual de Mexico," by Walter Pach, pp. 131-138.
Includes "Universality in Art," by Walter Pach, pp. 46-55.
Includes "Jean Le Roy," by Walter Pach, p. 296.
Includes letter in English from Walter Pach to Mr. Tohary.
Includes "La chair et l'acier," by Walter Pach, p. 149.
Includes "Problemas del arte americano," by Walter Pach, pp. 17-20.
Includes "The Outlook for Modern Art," by Walter Pach, pp. 4-8, 43.
Includes "Géricault," by Walter Pach, pp. 12-15.
Includes "The Story of Perkins," by Walter Pach, p. 6. Pach was also the editor in chief.
Walter Pach was editor in chief.
Includes "Le classicisme de Delacroix," by Walter Pach, pp. 109-112.
Includes "Pierre-Auguste Renoir," by Walter Pach, pp. 606-615.
Includes "Appendix II, Mr. Quinn as a Collector," by Walter Pach, reprinted from Catalogue of the Memorial Exhibition of Representative Works Selected from the John Quinn Collection (New York: Art Center, 1926).
Includes "Art," by Walter Pach.
Includes "L'art aux Etats-Unis," by Walter Pach, pp. 271-276.
Includes "The Raphael from Russia," by Walter Pach, pp. 43-55.
Includes "Contemporary French Art," by Elie Faure, translated by Walter Pach, with a letter and note.
Two copies, including one that is annotated
Includes "Walter Pach, graveur américain," by Léon Rosenthal, pp. 37-38, as well as an original etching by Walter Pach.
Includes a portrait of Stéphane Mallarmé by F. Vallotton.
Includes article on the Walter Pach mural given to CCNY.
Includes a woodcut enclosed with booklet
Faure's name is crossed out, and Walter Pach has changed it to Bela Lasar.
Pach was a lender to the exhibition.
Includes "Notes d'un peintre, by Henri Matisse.
Two books of studies, text in Japanese.
Includes "Paul Cézanne," by Elie Faure.
Walter Pach's painting was included in exhibition.
Pach was a lender to the exhibition.
Walter and Magda Pach were directors and lenders.
Lists Walter Pach's article "Arte mexicano en Nueva York," no. 6, p. 5.
Includes "Fourteen Eyes in a Museum Storeroom.".
Includes "La peinture et ses lois: Ce qui devait sortir du cubisme," by Albert Gleizes.
Walter Pach's work was in the exhibition.
The scattered papers of painter and collector Josephine Paddock measure 0.4 linear feet, date from circa 1890 to 1963, and include scattered correspondence, photographs, and printed materials. The bulk of the collection consists of two dismantled postcard albums.
Correspondence is scattered and includes letters from Isabel Mason, Helen Rudolph, Eugenie L. St. Germain, and Anne Turnbull. Photographs are largely unlabeled but likely depict Paddock, friends, and a work of art. A 1892 photo depicts the studio of Joe Evans. Printed materials include clippings and scattered exhibition announcements.
The bulk of the papers consist of two postcard albums containing postcards depicting works of art, landmarks, and cities. Many of the postcards include personal notes from family and friends, most of which are signed with initials or first names or are illegible. There are postcards from E.L.P, possibly Ethel Louise Paddock (Paddock's sister) and A.B. Evans, who may be a relation to Joe Evans. Other postcards are signed by Aunt R., M.H. Brown, W. Furlong, F.F.M. and J.M.Taylor.
Letters Sara Page wrote from Italy to various family members. She was still married to William Page at the time.
This collection includes the ledger of the Painters and Sculptors Club of Los Angeles, which documents the creation of an organization of male artists modeled after the Salmagundi Club of New York and the Palette and Chisel Club of Chicago. The minutes record the activities and exhibitions of its members. The first meeting was held in 1923 and the group was incorporated in 1927. This document also includes the signatures of charter members. Some of the most prominent male artists working in Los Angeles are included, such as, Joseph Kleitsch, John Cotton, F. Grayson Sayre, Leland Curtis, A. Phimister Proctor, Dana Bartlett, Franz Bischoff, Merrell Gage, Roger Nobel Burnham, Joseph Greenbaum, Edouard Vysekal, Christian von Schneidau, Alson Clark, John Frost, Edgar Payne, Paul Sample, Arthur Beaumont, and Norman Chamberlain.
A letter to Palmer from Frederic Edwin Church, written from Jaffa, Palestine.
Cassette recording and transcript (14 p.) of Glenn Rhines idnentifying and discussing his outdoor sculpture on his property in Ithaca, Mich. with Michael Panhorst for the Michigan SOS!, Oct. 7, 1993; a memo from Panhorst with corrections to the transcript, June 1, 1995; and photocopies of 73 photographs and a contact sheet of Rhine's sculpture taken by Panhorst during the interview session.
The papers of Erwin Panofsky measure 19.8 linear feet and are dated 1904-1990 (bulk dates 1920-1968). They consist of correspondence, writings, biographical material, and printed material documenting Panofsky's career as an art historian, teacher, and writer.
The Panofsky papers are comprised mainly of correspondence with colleagues, scholars, students, art dealers, galleries and museums, libraries, colleges and universities, organizations, and periodicals. Among the correspondents are colleagues, scholars, students, art dealers, galleries and museums, libraries, colleges and universities, organizations, and periodicals. Correspondents include: Udo von Alvensleben, Walter William Spencer Cook, Paul Coremans, Walter Friedländer, William S. Heckscher, Ludwig H. Heydenreich, Horst Janson, Adolf Katzenellenbogen, Richard Krauatheimer, Edward E. Lowinsky, Millard Meiss, Gert van Osten, Richard Salomon, Craig Smyth, Wolfgang Stechow, Booth and Betty Tarkington, Egon Verheyen, and Wilhelm Vöge.
Writings by Panofsky include drafts, notes, and manuscripts of articles, book reviews, books, and lectures. Biographical material consists of awards and certificates, diplomas (including many honorary degrees), and membership certificates. Among the printed material are articles and clippings about or mentioning Panofsky, programs for graduation ceremonies at which Panofsky was awarded honorary degrees, reviews of Panofsky's books, obituaries, and memorial programs and tributes.
Erwin Panofsky's correspondence documents his research, writing, teaching, lecturing, and participation in professional organizations. It reflects his own academic interests and expertise - Medieval, Gothic, and Renaissance art, history, and iconography, and those of his many correspondents.
His most prolific correspondents include: Udo von Alvensleben, Walter William Spencer Cook, Paul Coremans, Walter Friedländer, William S. Heckscher, Ludwig H. Heydenreich, Horst W. Janson, Adolf Katzenellenbogen, Richard Krautheimer, Edward E. Lowinsky, Millard Meiss, Gert von der Osten, Richard Salomon, Craig Smyth, Wolfgang Stechow, Booth and Betty Tarkington, Egon Verheyen, and Wilhelm Vöge.
1.8: Miscellaneous, arranged by subject, includes: requests for reviews, contributions to encyclopedias and dictionaries, and requests to write books; acknowledgements and thank you letters, 70th birthday congratulations; U.S. government, embassies and consulates. 1.9: Unfilmed Correspondence, received many years after microfilming was completed, is arranged chronologically and overlaps the dates and categories of correspondents represented in the preceding subseries.
Aaron, Maxine G.
Abbott, John E.
Harry N. Abrams, Inc.
Adams, Gillian
Adler, Alfred
Ahlborn, Richard E.
Albers, Josef
Albers-Schoenberg, E.
Alef, Gustave
Alexandr, Robert C.
Allan, Donald J.
Allen, D. C.
Allen, David,
Allenby, Amy Ingeborg
Allers, Rudolf
Alley, Elizabeth D.
Altman, Julius
Amberg, George
Ames, Winslow
D'Ancora
Anderson, Edgar
Anderson, Lawrence B.
Anderson, Martha
Anderson, Robert R.
Anderson, Zane
Andrade, D. José Pita
Andreisse, A.
Antal, Friedrich
Anthony, Robert W.
Anzelewski, Fedja
Apel, Willi
Aprá, Adriano
Armstrong, Amy
Arnold, Frederick L.
Aronsohn, Harold N.
Ash, Graham Baron
Ashron, Dore
Askew, Kirk, Jr.
Atwood, Earle R.
Auzas, P. M.
Axinn, Sidney
Ackerman, Gerald
Ackerman, James
Adhémar, Hélène
Adhémar, Jean
Alexander, Paul J.
Alföldi, Andrew
Alker, Hermann
Alpatov, Michael
d'Alverny, Marie-Thérèse
Alyea, Herbert N.
Ameisenowa, Zofia
Aries, Robert S.
Arnheim, Rudolf
Arnason, H. Harvard
Arnolds, Günter
Askew, Pamela
Aubert, Marcel
Aydelotte, Frank
Aydelotte, William O.
Bailey, Stephen K.
Bainton, Roland H.
Baker, Carlos
Bannister, Turpin
Barbour, J. Murray
Barker, John W.
Barnhart, Clarence L.
Barnouw, A. J.
Baron, H.
Barton, Jess
Bassi, Stelio
Bates, Donald G.
Baudry, J.
Bayón, Damián Carlos
Beaujouan, Guy
Becker, Marion R.
Beckley, Quitman
Behling, Lottlisa
Belangie, W. M.
Belen, Van der, Jack and Herman Liebaers
Beller, Elmer
Bellinger, Alfred R.
Belluschi, Pietro
Belt, Elmer
Berenson, Bernard [copy from S. J. Camp]
Berg, Gösta
Van der Berg-Noë
Berger, Pamela
Bergamnn, Rosemarie
Berry, Francis
Bertelli, Dr. and Mrs. Carlo
Biberman, Herbert
Bielefeld, Erwin
Bishop, Katherine
Blair, David
Blair, Madeline S.
de Blanc, George G.
Blanco-Gguinaga, Carlos
Bloch, Robert
Blom, Frans
Blue Card, Inc.
Bock von Wülfingen, Ordenberg
Boehringer, Erioco
Boggs, Jean S.
Bonow, Eunice R.
Bony, Mary
Borgerhoff, E.
Borromeo d'Adda, Contessa Orietta
Bosi, Maria
Böttcher, Otto
Botte, Paul
Bouscaren, Louis H. G.
Bowie, Theodore
Boyle, Kay
Brandt, Joseph A.
Breasted, James H., Jr.
Breithaumpt, Erwin W.
Brody, Jules
Brommer, Frank
Brooks, H. Allen, Jr.
Brosemann, Marianne
Brossman, Martin
Brown, Estelle
Brown, Harcourt
Brown, J. Douglas
Brown, Louise Fargo
Brubaker, Elisabeth Ann
Bruckmann, Verlag F.
Bruner, Louise
Brusselle, M. A. Fr.
Buchholz, Sister Regina
Buchoff, Barry
Buchdruck, Buehler
Buerger, Janet
Bukofzer, Manfred F.
Bulatkin, Eleanor W.
Bundy, McGeorge
Burkhardt, Frederick
Burman, Shibdlas
Burroughs, Alan
Buuren, D. M. van
Buxbaum, Rhoda
Bacgihofer, Ludwig
Badt, Kurt
Baets, Rev. P.M.J. de
Baeyns, Herman
Bailly, Ellen H.
Baldass, Ludwig
Bandmann, Günter
Baránszy-Jób, László
Bardon, Françoiose
Bargebuhr, Frederick P.
Baron, Hans
Barton, Samuel G.
Barzun, Jacques
Baticle, Jeannine
Battisti, Eugenio
Bauer, Lucie
Beck, James N
Beckley, Rev. Quitman F.
Begemann, Egbert Heverkamp
Benesch, Otto
Berger, Klaus
Bergerhoff, Renate
Bergström, Ingvar
Berliner, R. R.
Bettagno, Alessandro
Beutler, Christian
Cabaniss, Allen
Calhoun, Robert L.
Calvesi, Maurizio
Cambrari, Archeveche de
Caplan, Judith
Caponigri, A. Robert
Carey, Graham
Carmichael, Peter A.
Carrière, R.
Carrith, David
Carroll, Eugene A.
Cassirer, Kurt
Cassirer, Tom
Caterini, Styde
Cederlöf, Olle
Cervene, Richard
Chadraba, Rudolf
Chadwick-Collins, Mrs. James
Chaikin, Nathan
Chakravarty, Amiya
Chambers, F. P.
Chartier, chanoine Maurice
Cheadle, Helen
Cirker, Hayward
Claflin, Agnes
Clark, John S.
Claybrook, Priscilla Leigh
Clements, Robert J.
Cliver, E. Blaine
Clogan, Paul M.
Cloulas-Brousseau, Annie
Coburn, Kathleen
Coe, William J.
Cohn, Alfred E.
Cohn, Werner [from Millard Meiss]
Coles, Margot J.
Colie, Rosalie L.
Commanger, Henry Steele
Comstock, Francis A.
Conan, A.
Cooke, H. Lester
Corbett, Dorothy
Cornelius, Du Pont
Cornell, Henrik
Couprie, L. D.
Courant, R.
Cox, Trenchard
Coyle, Dan
Craig, Gordon
Crane, Mrs. W. Murray
Crocker, Lester G.
Crowlie, A. C.
Curl, Huldah
Curran, Thomas
Cutler, Anthony
Callisen, Sterling A.
Campbell, Malcolm
Carandente, Giobanni
Carey, Peter, 1954-1965
Cartier, David Giles, 1950-1962
Castelli, Enrico
Catlin, Stanton L.
Cetto, Anna Maria
Citroen, K. A.
Clagett, Marshall
Clemens, Walter
Clement, Paul A.
Clowes, Edith W. and Clowes, G.H.A. (The Clowes Fund)
Cohen, Bernard I.
Cohn, Marjorie
Conant, Kenneth John
Conkwright, P. J.
Constable, Giles
Coor, Gertrude
Corbett, James
Craven, Wayne
Creese, Walter L.
Curtis, Ernest Robert
Curtis, Klaus
Dacos, Nichole
Dallam, John M.
Daly, L. J.
David, Alfred
Davis, Catherine
Davis, Mrs. H. Chandler
Davis, Howard
Davis, Saville R.
Dazzi, Manlio
Dean, G. K.
Dean, R. J.
De Blanc, George 
De Boer, P.
De Christoforo
Dehn, Georg
Delatour, G. S.
De Laurier, Nancy Gibbon
Delius, F.
Della Vida, G. Levi
Delman, Emil
Dencher, Eva
De Roover, Florence E.
Dettweiler, Frieda
Deuchlerl, Florens
Devisse, J.
Dickson, T. Elder
Dieckmann, Liselotte
Diehl, George K.
Dihle, A.
Diller, Hans 
Diez, Ernst
Dingelstedt, Kurt
Dochy, J.
Dodwell, Reginald
Doeblin, Alfred
Dolan, James L.
Donaldson, Katherine
Donovan, James A., Jr.
Dorner, Alexander
Dorner, Lydia A.
Dorsky, Morris
Dow, Helen J.
Downey, Glanville
Dressler, Fridollin
Drucker, Peter F.
Drury, Betty
Dubiner, Susan
Duclos, R.
Dufour, Alain
Dundas, Judith
Dyson, Freeman
Dahl, Brother Thomas More
Dahlbäck, Bengt
Dean, Ruth J.
Degenhart, Bernhard
Deinzer, Willi
Deknatel, Frederick B.
Delanoy, Eleanor
Dempsey, Charles
Demus, Otto
Desneux, Jules
Dewald, Ernest T.
Dhanes, Elisabeth
Dibner, Bern
Dieckmann, Herbert
Dieckmann, Liselotte
Dienstfrey, Debra
Dinsmoor, William B.
Dobrzeniecki, Tadeusz
Dodd, Lamar
Dodgson, Campbell
Dodwell, Charles Reginald
Dohmann, Albrecht
Donati, Lamberto
Downey, Glanville
Eakins, J. M.
Earle, Edward Mead
Edgar, Esabella M.
Edgar, Sister Mary
Edgerton
Edwards, Audrey L.
Egri
Ehrman, A.
Eichenberg, Fritz
Einstein, Alfred
Einstein, Norbert
Eismann, Heinrich
Eisenberg, Marvin
Eliasberg, Wladimir G.
Ellis, Albert
Emboden, William Al
Emerson, William
Emmens, J. A.
Engelbregt, Father J.H.A.
Engleson, H.
Epstein, Marion K.
Erdberg, Joan Prentice von
Er-Shih, Chiang
Erlebacher, Walter
Erler, Adalbert
Erskine, Peggy A.
Escala, Donna N.
Eerden, J. H. van der
Egan, Patricia
Engels, J.
Engler, Gustav Andreas
English, Anne Whitall
Epstein, Fritz T.
Esmerian, Ralph O.
Ettinghausen, Richard
Fagles, Robert
Fait, Joachim
Falkenstein, Henry
Färber, Helmut
Fee, James Alger
Feifel, Herman
Feltenstein, Rosalie
Ferguson, Wallace K.
Fergusson, Francis
Ferrara, Luisa Balboni-Sindaco di
Ferrari, Angel
Ferrari, Guy
Feron, Madame Raymonde
Field Enterprises, Inc.
Filia, Joan
Filipetto, Gino
Film, Carin
Finch, Henry A.
Fingesten, Peter
Fink, June-Marie
Finlayson, Donald L.
Fischer, L.
Flagg, Richard B.
Fleming, John F.
Fleming, John V.
Flexner, Abrahae
Flitner, Wilhelm
Foelsch
Folliet, G.
Foltiny, Stephen
Forbes, J. D.
Forbes, Kenneth Ripley
Foreman, Clark
Forslund, Erik
Forth, Robert F.
Foster, Philip
Foster, Sharon
Fowle, J. W.
Fowler, George
Fowles, Jean
Fox, John
Fox, Milton S.
Fraenkel, Hans
Francia, P. L. de
Francis, William
Frankena, William
Frantz, Sally
Fraser, Russell A.
Freccero, John
Freimarck, Vincent
French and Company, Inc.
Frenkel, Thomas
Frey, Dagobert
Friberg, Axel
Fried, Alexander
Friedenwald, Jonas S.
Fritz, Rolf
Fröbe-Kapteyn, Olga
Fulton, John
Furnies
Furniss, W. Todd
Fagiolo-dell A'Rco, Maurizio and Marcello
Faison, S. Lane, Jr.
Federer, Georg
Finkelstein, Louis
Fiocco, Giuseppe
Fisher, Martha
Fontaine, Mrs. F. D.
Ford Foundation
Forssman, Erik
Forsyth, William H.
Fosdick, Sina
Foster, Charles A.
Francastel, Pierre
Fränkel, Hermann
Frankel, Walter K.
Frankfort, Henri
Frantz, Alison
Freedberg, Sydney
Frenken, T.W.M.
Freudenheim, Tom L.
Freyhan, R.
Friedländer, Max J.
Friedländer, Paul
Friedman, Lionel J.
Friedman, William F.
Friend, Albert H., Jr.
Fritz, Kurt von
Fulton, John F.
Gallenkamp, George V.
Garbee, Willialm C., Jr.
Gardie, Krinstina de la
Garrett, Robert
Garttmer, Lloyd
Gellerman, Hersh
Gellert, Bridget
Gendler, Rabbi Everett
Gibson, James J.
Gilbert, Marianne
Gilbert, Mary E.
Gilbert, Philip
Gilbert, William
Gillispie, Charles C.
Gillmer, Vaun
Gilmore, Gerald F.
Gilmore, Myron F.
Ginzburg, Carlo
Glasser, Hannelore
Glazier, William S.
Goldenberg, Anne
Goldschmidt, Lucien
Goldstein, C.
Gonzalez, Joaquin Diaz
Goris, Jan-Albert
Gova, Sabine
Goodall, Donald
Gottlieb, Carla
Gottschalk, Louis
Graubard, Stephen R.
Graupe, Paul
Green, P. Charles
Greenberg, Sidney
Greenbie, Sydney
Greene, J. Craig
Greene, Terrence W.
Griffin, Gillett
Griffing, Robert P.
Griffith, Beatrice Fox
Grun, Edith
Guillevic, J.
Gulamerian, Norman B.
Gutkind, E. A.
Gagnebin, Bernard
Galpin, Perrin C.
Ganter, Joseph
Garbáty, Eugene Leopold
Garbáty, Maurice
Gareis, Hansgeorg
Garside, Charles, Jr.
Gäumann-Wild, Doris
Gauthier, Marie-Madeline
Geyl, Pieter
Gibbons, Felton
Giesau, Hermann
Gilbert, Felix
Gnudi, Cesare
Godwin, Frances Gray
Goldberg, Milton
Goldberg, Norman L.
Goldman, Hetty
Goldschmidt, Max
Goldwater, Robert
Goodchild, Donald
Goodenough, Erwin R.
Goodnell, Robert C.
Gordon, Irene
Goris, Jan Albert
Gosebruch, Martin
Gottesman, D. S. (D.S. and R.H. Gottesman Foundation)
Gould, Cecil
Graaf, J. A. van de
Gradenwitz
Grange, T. P.
Greenbaum, Edward E.
Greene, Belle da Costa
Greischel, Walther
Grier, Harry
Griffith, Charles Francis
Griffith, Richard
Grinten, E.F. van der
Grippi, Rosalind
Grosjean, Paul
Grossman, Edwin
Grote, Ludwig
Grenebaum, L. H.
de Gruyter, Walter
Guenther, Peter W.
Guerlac, Henry
Guerry, Prosper
Gulden, Ernst
Gundersheimer, H.
Gurewich, Vladimir
Gutiérrez Mujica, Carlos
Gutmann, Joseph
Gwaltney, Corbin
Hackenbroch, Yvonne
Hadassah Magazine
Haering, Irene
Halberstam, Michael J.
Halle, Kay
Hallowell, Robert E.
Hamberg, Gustav
Hamburger Frendenblatt
Hamilton, Thomas H.
Hanfstaengl, Eberhard
Harbiso, E. Harris
Madelean Harmann
Harrison, Evelyn B.
Harrison, Frank L.
Harrsen, Meta
???tHart, M. E.
Hartman, Otto
Harvey, E. Newton
Harvey, Marlene
Harwi, Lawrence
Häskum, Richard
Hauben, Janet
Haufrecht, Betty
Haugen, Pat
Haupt, Hans
Hausmann, U.
Havenitt, Elaine
Haverlin, Carl
Hayek, F. A. von
Healy, Arthur K. D.
Hedén, Karl-Gusstaf
Heemstra, Baron F.S. Sixma van
Heger, Henrik
Heidegger
Heijmans, Eduard
Heilbrunn, Rudolf M.
Heinemann, F.
Heinemann, Rudolf J.
Heinrich, Ted
Heisenberg, Werner
Held, Richard
Helleiner, Karl T.
Henderson, George
Henry, Father Paul
Herbig, Reinhard
Herlig,
Herding, Klaus
Hernmarck, Carl
Herring, James V.
Hersey, Carl K.
Heyl, Lawrence
Heymann, Frederick G.
HiFi/Stereo Review
Hilweg, Hans
Hind'Hulsh, R.
Hinman, Richard L.
Hirsch, Stefan
Hoening, Irene
Hoffeld, Jeffrey M.
Hoffmann, Konrad
Hofstede, Justus Müller
Hohenzollern, Prinz Johann Georg von
Holborn, Hajo
Holmqvist, Wilhelm
Hook, Sidney
Hootz
Hopper, Paul
Horen
Horizon
Hoving, Walter
Howell, Douglass
Howell, E. B.
Howell, Warren R.
Hughes, Serge
Hugo, Harold
Humez
Hupert, Marjorie
Hürlimann, Caspar G.
Hürlimann, Hans
Hurt, Hethro M., III
Huth, Hans
Hahnloser, Hans R.
Haight, Anne
Haight, Elizabeth Hazelton
Hamberg, Gustaf
Hamilton, George Heard
Hampe, Roland
Hanckel, Hadumoth
Hanson, Bernard
Hanson, Norwood R.
Harbison, Craig S.
Harbison, E. Harris
Harris, Robert M.
Hartmann, Kurt
Hatch, John Davis
Hatzfeld, Helmut
Haussherr, Reiner
Haycraft, Robert K.
Heath, William W.
Heiss, Carl Georg
Heitmann, Klaus
Helsdingen, H. W. van
Hempel, Eberhard
Henle, Werner
Henry, Barklie McKee
Hentzen, A.
Hermerén, Göran, undated
Herrlinger, Robert
Hertz, Richard
Hess, Jacob
Heyl, Bernard C.
Hibbard, Howard
Hinks, Roger
Hirtum, Andrée van
Hitchcock, Henry-Russell
Hochschild, Mrs. Harold K.
Hoff, Ursula
Hoffmann, Kathrin
Hoffmann, Konrad
Hollander, John
Hollister, C. Warren
Holmback, A.
Holst, Christian von
Holt, Mrs. John B.
Holzinger, Ernst
Hoogewerff, G. J.
Hope, Henry
Horb, Felix
Horn, Walter W.
Hornung, Hans
Horváth, Béla
Houtzager, Maria Elisabeth
Hubala, Erich
Hungerland, Helmut
Hunt, F. L.
Huth, Hans
Iklé, Charles F.
Isserstedt, Dorothea C.
Ivanoff, Nicolas
Iversen, Erik
Ivins, William M., Jr.
Jacobs, Lewis
Jacobsen, Eric
Jacquot, Jean
Jahn, Erich
Jakobson, Roman
James, C.L.R.
Janicik, Edward E. C.
Janson, Bertil
Janson, Claire
Jastrow, Elizabeth
Jauneau, MaadeleineRocher
Jauss
Javet, Pierre
Jesi, Furio
Jirat-Wasiutynski, Vojt ch
John, James J.
Johnson, Edgar N.
Johnson, Philip C.
de Jong, Mrs. H.M.E.
Jost, Res
Jung, Eva-Marie
James, David
Jaffé, Michael
James, Mr. and Mrs. William
Jameson, D.F.B.
Jessen, H.
Johnson, James R.
Johnson, Lee
Johnson, S. F.
Johnson, W. McAllister
Jones, Bob, Jr.
Jones, Eldred D.
Josephson, Ragnar
Jucker, Hans
Jurgen, Paul
Kahler, Erich
Kaizer, Joachim
Kallen, Horace M. Peter Kamp, van de
Katona, Paul
Kaysen, Carl
Kearns, Helen M.
Keeper of the King's Pictures
Keil, Robert A.
Kellogg, Alfred L.
Kelly, Leon
Kennick, William E.
Kerby-Miller, Charles
Kern, Paul J.
Kernodle, George R.
Kielland, Else Christie
Kieser, Emil
Killermann, Sebastian
Klein, Jerome
Klimowsky, E. W.
Knauer, G. Nicholas
Knipping, J. B.
Knowlton, Edgar C.
Knuttel, G.
Koch, Karl
Koher, Harris
Kolb, Albert
Koslow, Arnold
Koslow, Susan
Kostotowski, Andrzeo
Kraus, Erasmus
Krause, Rudolf
Kreismann, Illo
Kress, R. N.
Kroeber, A. L.
Kuntz, Paul G.
Kusch, Horst
Kuylen, Krister van
Kaftal, George
Kahane, Henry R.
Kahane, Penuel P.
Kaiser, Walter
Kalinowski, Lech
Kapp, Ernest
Kapp, Ida
Karl, Adolph
Karling, Sten
Kasack, Hermann
Kellam, Jack
Kelleher, Patrick J.
Kennan, George F.
Kessler, Clemencia Hand
Kienitz, John F.
King, Edward L.
King, L.G.T.
Kisch, Guido
Kitzinger, Ernst
Klauser, Theodor
Klesse, Brigitte
Klessmann, Rüdiger
Klibansky, Raymond
Knapp-Fisher, J. S.
Koch, Rev. Alfred
Koehler, Wilhelm and Margarete, 1942-1959
Koepplin, Dieter, 1963
Köhler, Wolfgang, 1938-1961
Kossoff, Florence S.
Koyré, Alexandre
Kracauer, Siegfried
Kraft, Konrad
Kuhn, Charles L.
Kultermann, Udo
Künstsler, Gustav
Kupferberg, C. A.
Kurz, Otto
Ladenberg, Mrs. Rudolf
Ladendorf, Heinz
Laging, Duard W.
La Marre, John
Lambert, Phyllis B.
Landan, Julie
Lantham, Richard
Laporte, Paul M.
Lapp, John C.
Latte, K.
Laufer, June
Laurier, Mrs. Jacques De
Lawall, David E.
Leary, Eleanor W.
Lehmann, Paul
Lennon, William
Leonhardt, Leo
Lering, Antoine
Lesley, Everett P., Jr.
Lexow, Jan Hendrick
Leynen, Hilde
Leyritz, Gabariel Chaneaux de
Li, Chu-tsing
Linardos, Ilialna
Lilienfeld, Karl
Lincoln, Carolyn R.
Lindroth, Sten
Lindsay, Kenneth C.
Lisco, Karen
Lissim, Simon
Lowey, Alice
London News
Loomis, Roger S.
Lowry, Bates
Lucas, S.
Luce, Robert
Ludden, Franklin Monroe
Lumb, E. Sue
Lyon, Quinter M.
Lynes, Mildred C. (Mrs. Russell Lynes)
Lafond, Jean
Lamarre, John H.
Lambert, Phyllis
Lanckorónska, Countess Maria
Landsberger, Franz
Lang, Renée B.
Langer, William L.
Lankheit, Klaus
Larrabee, Harold A.
Larrabee, Stephen A.
Laurvik, J. N.
Lauts, Jan
Lavalleye, Jan
Lawrence, Marion
Lawrence, Sidney
Leadbeatter, Dorothy
Leake, Chauncey D.
Lederer, Wolfgang
Lee, Paul A.
Lehman, Robert
Lehamnn-Haupt, Hellmut
Lejeune, Jean
Lenneberg, Edith
Lerici, Carlo M.
Leroquais, Victor
Levey, Michael
Levin, Harry T.
Liebeschütz, Hans
Lieftnick, G. I.
Linder, Harold F.
Loeschcke, Walter
Lohamm-Siems, Isa
Loomis, Laura H.
Lopez, Robert S.
Lord, Eileen A.
Lord, L. E.
Loshak, David
Lossky, Boris
Ludwig, Allan
Lyna, Frederic, undated
McCarthy, Joseph L.
McElhinney, Alice L.
MacGreevy, Thomas
McKinnis, Fred L.
MacLagan, Eric
McNamee, Father Maurice
McNulty, J. Bard
MacCracken, R. A.
McGee, Anne
McGrath, Robert L.
McGuire, William
McKechwie, Margaret
McKenzie, A. Dean
McKibbin, David
McMahon, A. Phillip
Magallón, Don Tomás
Magnuson, Torgil
Malkiel, Jakow
Maltese, Corrado
Mandelbaum, Maruice
Mango, Cyril
Maniates, Maria Rika
Manuel, Fritzie
Mar, André de la
Marabottini, Alessandrom
Marazza, Achille
Marchand, Hans
Marck, Jan H. M. van der
Marg, W.
Marichal, Robert
Markham, Anne
Marks, Peter
Marrow, James
Martens, Bela
Martin, William E.
Martin, Y.
Martone, Father Thomas
Marruach, Acisclo
Masi, Alessandro de
Mattingly, J. R.
Mayekawa, Seiro
Mayer, Martin
Mendel, Arthur
Merlen, L. Jacobs van
Merkel
Merle, Pierre
Messerer, Wilhelm
Metternich, Franz Graf Wolff
Meurer, Heribert
Meyer, Ann Mans
Meyer, Erich 
Meyer, Herman
Meyer-Baer, Kathi
Meyers, Hans
Millar, Bradford P.
Miller, Charles R. D.
Miller, Clyde R.
Misch, Georg
Moehle, Ruediger
Moeller, Kurt
Molle, F. Van
Mondadori, Alberto
Montagna, Lino
Montago, Jennifer
Montesquiou Frzensac, Blaise de
Montone, Father
Moratz, Frank
Morawitz, Kurt
Morris, Dudley H.
Morse, Beverly
Mortimer, Mary H.
Moseley, Jane E.
Moulinier, Edward P.
Müller, Gerhard
Mullet, Charles F.
Munhall, Edgar J.
Münzel, B.H.M.
Mutsaers, B.
Mylonas, George E.
Maas, John C.
Mabille, A.
Mack-Smith, Denis
Mahon, Denis
Majno, Guido
Malone, Lee
Manasse, Ernst Moritz
Mandowsky, Erna
Mann, Alfred
Marcus, Stanley
Marenau, Henry
Marquand, Eleanor C.
Marsden, C. A.
Martens, Bella
Martin, F. David
Martin, Kurt
Mather, Frank J., Jr.
Mayo, Penelope C.
Mayor, A. Hyatt
Meeson, B.
Melamed, Hope Goodman
Meller, P. Peter
Meltzoff, Stanley
Menase, Luc
Mendel, Arthur
Menil, John de
Merritt, Benjamin
Mertz, Richard R.
Metzger, Mendel
Meyerson, I.
Meyne, Willi
Middledorf, Ulrich
Minott, Charles I.
Mirimonde, A. P. de
Mirsky, Jeannette
Mitchell, Charles
Modestini, Mario
Möhle, Hans
Mommsen, Theodor E.
Mongan, Agnes
Mink, Samuel H.
Morey, Charles Rufus
Morley, S. Griswold
Morper, Johann Joseph
Morse, Marston
Mortimer, M. H.
Mosse, Walter
Mueller, Earl
Müller, Theodor
Müller, Wolfgang J.
Müller Hofstede, Cornelius
Mumford, Lewis
Nachod, Frederick C.
Najder, Zdzislaw
Nathan, Otto
Nauert, Charles G., Jr.
Neisser, H.
Nemser, Cindy
Neuberger, Hans
Neumann, Sigmund
New York Times
Newton, Francis J.
Nicely, Katharine
Nickerson, Hoffman
Nicolson, L. Vertova
Nicolson, Mary Coe
Nilgren, Ursula
Nill, Anna M.
Niver, Charles
Norden, Heinz
Nostrand, Albert Van
Nadel, George H.
Nahm, Milton C.
Nash, Ray
Nathan, Hans
Nathan, Helmuth
Nef, John U.
Negri, Enrico and Lilo de
Nesselhauf, Herbert, undated
Neugebauer, Otto
Neumann, Jaromír
Newton, Caroline
Nicolson, Marjorie H.
Nock, Arthur D.
Nordström, Carl-Otto 
Nordström, Folke 
Norton, Paul F. 
O'Brien, Gerard F.
O'Dea, Connie
Oelher, Lisa
Oertal, Robert
Offenbacher, Emil
Oksala, P.
Olin, Caroline Bower
Opie, J. N. Lindsay
Oberer, Hariolf
O'Connell, Rev. John P.
Oexmann, Theophila Joan
Offner, Richard
Ong, Rev. Father Walter J.
Oppenheimer, Fritz E.
Oppenheimer, J. Robert
Paine, Francisca Warren
Paine, Michael J.
Palacios, Alvar Gonzalez
Palmer, George A.
Pancoast, John
Papajewski, Helmut
Pargellis, Stanley
Park, Marion S.
Parker, Harry S., III
Parsons, Harold W.
Partington, Ruth
Paul, Jurgen
Pauwels, H.
Pawson, Herbert B.
Pevsner, Nikolaus
Philippe, Joseph
Philippsohn, Jenny
Picard, Charles
Picard, Raymond
Pierson, Mrs. Emery Lancaster
Pinthus, Alexander
Poillon, Mrs. Arthur
Polier, Justine Wise
Polzer, Joseph
Pompanin, A.
Poole, Dewitt Clinton
Popesco, Paul
Post, Chandler R.
Preddy, C. R., Jr.
Price, Derek J.
Price, Pamela
Princeton Club of New York
Prudential Insurance Company
Puhst, Johann
Pulitzer, Joseph
Paatz, W.
Pächt, Otto
Pais, Abraham
Palme, Per
Panofsky, Hans and Wolfgang
Papp, Béla
Pauli, Gustav
Pauli, Magdalene
Pauli, Wolfgang
Pacchiai, Pió
Pedretti, Carlo
Peery, William
Perlmutter, Joshua
Perrig, Alexander, F. X.
Petersen, Ulla
Peyre, Henri M.
Pfeiffer, H.
Philip, Lotte Brandt
Philippot, Paul
Phillips, John
Pichetto, Stephen G.
Pieper, Paul
Piper, Otto A.
Placzek, George
Plaut, Alfred
Plochmann, George Kimball
Pobor, Grga
Poggioli, Renato
Pölnitz, Gerhard Freiherr von
Pope-Hennessy, John
Posner, Donald
Post, Gaines
Pratt, Robert A.
Pressouyre, Léon
Preston, Lionel
Procacci, Ugo
Puppi, Lionello
Puyvelde, Leo van
Quarré, Pierre
Quintavalle, Augusta G.
Quirt, Walter W.
Qvarnström, Gunnar
Rabuse, Georg
Radernaher, Hans
Rakob, Friederich
Rappolt, Paul
Rasmussen, Nils Ludvig
Rand, E. K.
Reading, Carolyn
Reed, Sue Welsh
Reibnitz, Rudolf V.
Reincke, Heinrich
Reissner, H. G.
Reimche, Jean
Revel, E.
Reynal, Eugene
RIAS
Richter, George M.
Richter, Gisela M. A.
Rieck, Wilhelm
Riedl, Peter Anselm
Rieth,, Adolf
Riggio, Conrad F.
Ringbom, Sixten
Ringler, Josef
Ritter, Ewald
Robinson, Chalfant
Rodríguez Savall, Alfonso
Roems, H.
Rose, Elsa
Rood, Sherrill M.
Rookmaaker, H. R.
Roosen-Runge, H.
Rorimer, James J.
Rosenbach, A. S.
Rosenbaum, Elizabeth 
Rosenberg, C. G.
Rosenberg, Frances
Rosenbert, Mr. and Mrs. John
Rosenfeld, Leonard J.
Rosenthal, Jane
Ross, James Bruce
Ross, Lawrence J.
Roth, Cecil
Rowley, George
Rubin, Enid
Rückert, Ranier
Raudruf, L.
Ruhemann, Helmut
Rutan, Clinton N.
Ryskamp, Charles
Rabb, Theodore K.
Rabinowicz, Theodore
Rademacher, Hans
Raemisch, Waldemar
Randall, Lewis V.
Randall, Lillian M. C.
Raubitschek, Antony E.
Rawson, C. J.
Reese, Gustav
Reff, Theodore
Regteren Altena, J. Q. van
Reinhart, Oskar
Reinheldt, Curt
Reinhold, H. A.
Reutersvärd, Oscar
Reutersvärd, Patrick
Rewald, John
Reynolds, Robert L.
Reznicek, E.K.J.
Richelson, Paul W.
Richmond, Donald E.
Richter, Irma A.
Rickert, Margaret
Ripley,Elisabeth
Robb, David M.
Roberts, R. M.
Robertson, Giles
Roche, Thomas P., Jr.
Roe, Albert
Romanini, Angiola Maria
Roosval, Johnny
Rosen, Edward
Rosenau-Carmi, Helen
Rosenbaum, Allen
Rosenberg, J. B.
Rosenberg, Pierre
Rosenblum, Robert
Rosenthal, Erwin
Rosenthal, Gertrude
Rothlein, Jerome
Röthlisberger, Marcel
Rowland, Benjamin
Rudenstine, Angelica
Rudzinski, Aleksander Witold
Russell, Heide
Rüstow, Alexander
Ruzicka, R.
Saalman, Howard
Saint-Aubain, M. P. de
Salaquarda, Charles
Sales, Grover, Jr.
Salinger, Gerhard
Salm, Christian Altgraf
Salomon, Albert
Sandbla, Nils G.
Sanders, Ernst H.
Sanders, Gabe
Sanford, Eva Matthews
Savage, H. L.
Scheidmantelivian J.
Schelldorfer, K.
Scher, Stephen K.
Schickel, Richard
Schildt-Bunim, M.
Schmalenbach, Fritz
Schmidt, Georg
Schmidt, H. D.
Schmidt-Degener, H.
Schneider, Donald D.
Scholtens, H.J.J.
Schrader, Jack L.
Schramm, Percy Ernst
Schreinert Kurt
Schrickel, H. G.
Schubert, Wolf H.
Schuchhardt, W. H.
Schütt, Mary
Schütze, Martin
Schultz, H. Stefan
Schulz, Juergen
Carl Schurz Memorial Foundation
Schwartz, Gary
Schwartz, James H.
Secchi, Claudio Cesare
[Sessions?], Roger
Shearman, John K. G.
Siebenhüner, H.
Siegel, Eli
Siegerist, Henry E.
Silvers, Ilse Folk
Silverstein, Mary
Silz, Priscilla
Simon, Erika
Simor, George
Singleton, Charles S.
Sinicins, N.
Sjöqvist, Erik
Slingenberg
Sloane, John P.
Smith, Francis P.
Smith, Graham
Smith, Nancy R.
Smith, Richard Flanders
Smulders, F.
Snyers, M. R.
Snyder, Robert
Solomon, Dagmar I.
Solomon, Eva aTevan
Solomonski, Fritz
Spear, Richard E.
Spector, Jack
Speigel, Eileen
Sptizer, Wolfgang
Stampflel, Felice
Stange, Alfred
Stapleforth, Richard W.
Stebbins, Frederick A.
Steinhausen, H. K.
Stern, Frederic A.
Stern, Otto
Sternfeld, W.
Stevens, Charles Rolfe
Stewart, Dorothy N.
Stites, Raymond S.
Stoessel, Oskar
Stone, I. F.
Strauss, Walter L.
Strayer, Joseph R.
Strong, Earl D.
Strunsky, Robert
Sulzberger, Susanne
Sztuki, Pa stwowe Zbiory
Szablowski, Jerzy
Szathmary, Arthur
Sachs, Curt
Sachs, David
Sachs, Paul J.
Saffaro, Lucio
Salas, Xavier de
Saldern, Axel von
Salinger, Gerhard
Salinger, Herman
Salmi, Mario
Santillana, Giurio de
Santos, Reynaldo dos
Saran, Bernhard
Sarolli, Gian Roberto
Sarton, George
Sauerlandt, Max
Saxl, Fritz
Scaglia, Gustina
Schefold, Marianne, 1958-1965
Schéle, Sune, 1962
Schenk zu Schweinsberg, Eberhard Freiherr
Schiff, Gert
Schilling, E.
Schilling, Rosy
Schlunk, Helmut
Schmid, Wolfgang
Schmidt, Gerhard
Schönberger, G.
Schrade, Hubert
Schramm, Ruth
Schryver, Antoine de
Schuchhardt, W. H.
Schulz-Behrend, George
Schürer-von Witzleben, Elisabeth
Schüssler, Hermann
Schwabacher, Willy
Schwarz, Heinrich
Schwarz, Henry F.
Schwarzenberg, Erkinger
Schweitzer, Bernhard
Segall, Berta
Seidlin, Oskar
Selig, Karl Ludwig
Seligmann, Germain
Serra, Manuel
Sessions, Barbara
Settis, Salvatore
Setton, Kenneth M.
Šev enko, Ihor
Sewall, John
Sexton, Eric H. L.
Seymour, Charles
Seyrig, Henri
Sheldon, Alice D.
Sheppard, Carl D.
Shorr, Dorothy
Shyrock, Richard H.
Silverstein, Theodore
Simon, Jules
Simson, Otto von
Sjöquist, Erik
Sladeczek, Leonhard
Sloane, Joseph C.
Smith, Nancy and E. Baldwin
Snyder, James E.
Snyder, Robert
Solberg, Carl
Sommer, Frank H.
Soper, Alexander Coburn
Soth, Lauren
Spencer, Eleanor P.
Spencer, John R.
Springell, F.
Stafski, Heinz
Starobinski, Jean
Steck, Max
Steegmuller, Francis
Steinberg, Leo
Sterling, Charles
Steneberg, Karl Eric
Stillman, Clark
Stock, Brian
Stoddard, Whitney S.
Stokes, Muriel
Stone, Lawrence
Straus, Erwin W.
Strauss, Lewis
Strauss, Walter L.
Streisand, Hugo
Stridbeck, Carl G.
Strittmatter, Rev. Anselm
Stubbe, Wolf
Stubblebine, James H.
Suida, W.
Sweeney, J. J.
Swoboda, Karl M.
Symeonides, Sibilla
Szladitz, Lola
Takashina, Suji
Tavel, Hans Christoph von
Taylor, Michael A.
Teasdale, Molly
Ternbach, Joseph
Theuerkauff-Leiderwald, Anna Elisabeth
Thirby, Mrs. Edwin L.
Thirlwall, John C.
Thompson, Dorothy
Thordeman, Bengt
Thorne, Edgar F.
Thullier, Jacques
Tigerstedt, E. N.
Tolman, Sally Jones
Tomko, George Peter
Tördten, Hans W.
Toussiant, Rolf
Tritscher, Walther
Tritsch
Turner, R.
Tyler, Parker
Tatarkiewicz, Wlodyslaw
Taubert, Johannes
Taylor, Francis Henry
Taylor, Sybil
Temkin, Oswei
Temko, Allan
TenBroeck, Carl and Jane
Teyssèdre, Bernard
Thiem, Gunther
Thompson, C. R.
Thompson, Homer A.
Thompson, Mary Lee
Thordeman, Bengt
Thyssen-Bornemisza, H. H.
Tolnay, Charles de
Tonelli, Giorgio
Trapp. J. B.
Trell, Bluma L.
Treves, Marco
Trinkaus, Charles
Tschmelitsch, Günther
Tselos, Dimitri
Tilly, Mary Ann
Tuve, Rosemund
Ullman, B. L.
Ullman, Pierre
Ullmann, Ernst
Underwood, Margaret
Ungar, Emery U.
Urken, Mrs. Paul
Usher, Abbott P.
Van Isselt, Harriette Van Dam
Van de Velde, R. W.
Van Doren, Irita
Van Ghent, Dorothy
Vanderbilt, Paul
Verodn, Timothy C.
Vescovini, G. Federici
Vidal, Adrienne
Viljoen, Helen Gill
Viñals, Salvio G.
Vogel, Amos
Vogel, Bernard W.
Vogel, Gerhard
Vogelsang, W.
Vogelstein, Hertha
Volbach, Walther R.
Vondracek, M. Jon
Von Saldern, A.
Voss, W.
Valentiner, W. R.
Van Kuylen, Krister
Van Nostrand, A. D.
Varma, K. M.
Vasalle, Rudolph A.
Verulam, Lord
Vetter, Ewald M.
Vierbeck, Peter
Vinken, P.J.
Waith, Eugene M.
Walle, A. Van de
Wallen, Burr
Wallington, Ian
Wallis, Mieczyslaro
Walters, Christian
Walters, Gary
Warburg, Erich M.
Ward, John L.
Ward, Mary C.
Watson, George
Wabinski, Zygmunt
WBAI Radio
Weadock, Gertrude
Wearinga, Juw fon
Weber-Marshall, J.
Webster, Carson
Wehle, Harry
Weil, André
Weilgart, Wolfgang J.
Weinberg, Saul
Weinberg, Gladys D.
Weinberger, Edith
Weingram, S.
Weintraub, Viktor
Weisgall, Nathalie
Weisinger, Herbert
Weisner, Ulrich
Weitz, Morris
Wesenberg, Rudolf
While, Roy
White, Christopher
White, Howard B.
Whitman, Robert F.
Whitney, Hassler
WHOM Radio
Wickman, E. K.
Wight, Frederick S.
Wilber, Donald N.
Wilde, Johannes
Wildenstein, Daniel
Wiles, R. M.
Willard, Helen D.
Wellliver, Warman
Williams, Phyllis L.
Willoughby, Harold R.
Wilson, J. Christy
Winslow, Harriet P.
Winternitz, Emanuel
Wirth, Karl-August
Witt, Eobert
Wohl, Hellmut
Wolandt, Gerd
Wolf, Gertrude
Wolff, Eleanor L.
Wolff, Helene
Wood, Ledger
Woodward
Woody, William H., Jr.
Woolf, Harry
Wülfngen, Ordenberg Bock von
Waal, H. van de
Wace, Allen J. B.
Wackernagel, Wolfgang D.
Walker, D. P.
Walker, John
Walker, Robert
Warburg, Anita
Warburg, Edward M. M.
Warburg, Erich M.
Warburg, Max
Ward, Clarence
Warren, Edith
Waterhouse, Ellis K.
Webster-Bulatkin, Eleanor
Weinberg, Bernard
Weinberger, Martin
Weinmann, Françoise
Weitenkampf, Frank
Weitzmann, Kurt
Welliver, Mrs. Charles B.
Welliver, Warman
Welsh, Sue
Wengroth, Stow
Wershba, Joe
Wescher, Paul
Wethey, Harold E.
Will, Frederic
Willert, Paul
Wilhelm, Pia
Wilson, Larry
Wind, Edgar
Winkler, Friederich
Wrightsman, C. B.
Wuttke, Dieter
Xydis, Stephen
Yates, Frances
Young, Mrs. T. R.
Zados-Jitta, A. N.
Zaffrani, Gian Franca
Zannetti, Mario
Zarnecki, George
Zebal, Kinta A.
Ziegermann, Erich
Ziegermann, Peter
Zeitlin, J.
Zeitler, Rudolf
Zerner, Henri
Zigrosser, Carl
Zilsel, E.
Zimmerman, Mary H.
Zucker, Paul
Zupnick, I. L.
Albany, State University of New York at
Archaeological Institute of America
University of Arkansas
University of Auckland
Bauerische Akademie der Wissenschaftsgeschichte
Bennett College
Boston College
Boston University
Bowling Green State University
Brandeis University
Université de Bruxelles
Colgate University
Dalhousie University
Denison University
Drew University
Ellis Island for Higher Education, Inc.
Emma Willard School
Emory University
Freiburg, Albert Ludwigs Universitat
Frieburg, Die Kunstwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft
University of Hawaii
Indiana University
Karel van Mander Kunsthistorische Instituut
Louisiana State University
University of Louisville
Universität Marburg
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
University of Nebraska
New School
University of North Carolina
University of North Dakota
Nova Scotia Technical College
Ohio Wesleyan University
University of Oklahoma
Universita di Pavia
Philadelphia College of Art
Pomona College
Reed College
University of Rhode Island
Rockford College
Rockefeller Institute
Rollins College
Royal Swedish Academy of Letters, History and Antiquities
Saint Meinrad Seminary
State University College on Long Island
Temple University
University of Texas
University of Toronto
Washington University
Wayne State University
Weil Institute
Western Michigan University
Western Reserve University
Wilson College
College of Wooster
Academie Royal de Belgique
American Academy in Rome
Amherst College
 Bard College
Connecticut College
Cooper Union
Cornell University
Courtauld Institute of Art
University of Kansas
University of Kentucky
Kenyon College
University of London
 Lowell Institute
Manhattanville College of the Sacred Heart
Michigan State College
University of Michigan
Middlebury College
St. John's College, Annapolis
St. John's University, Minnesota
Sarah Lawrence College
Skidmore College
University of Southern California
Swarthmore College
Syracuse University
Uppsala University (original letters filed under Paulsson, Gregor)
Académie Royale de Belgique
 American Academy of Arts and Letters
American Academy of Arts and Sciences
 American Council of Learned Societies
American Numismatic Society
Amsterdam XVIIth International Congress of the History of Art
 Belgian American Educational Foundation, Inc.
Brussels Ministère de l'Education Nationale et de la Culture
College English Association, Committee for the Study of Mankind
Colloquia Humanitas Conimbrigensia, Coimbra, Portugal
Experimental Program in Teacher Education, Temple University
Gottesman Foundation (copies; originals filed under Gottesman, D. S.)
John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation
Hispanic Society of America
Samuel H. Kress Foundation
Medieval Academy of America
Midwestern College Art Conference
National Council of Churches of Christ in the U.S.A., Department of Worship and the
Arts
New York Renaissance Club
Phi Beta Kappa
Renaissance Society of America
Royal Society of Arts, London
Society for the Protection of Science and Learning
United States National Student Association
Art Bulletin, 1938-1967
Art in America, 1955-1965
Art News, 1957-1961
Art Quarterly, 1952
 L'Arte, 1965-1966
Arte Antica e Moderna, 1961
Burlington Magazine
College Art Journal
Cinnaissance des Arts
Daedalus
Diogène
Journal of Aesthetics and Art Criticism
Journal of the Warburg and Courtauld Institutes
Library Chronicle
 Magazine of Art
Marsyas
Master Drawings
 New York Times Book Review
Pageant
Phoebus
Phoenix
Progress of Medieval and Renaissance Studies
Revista de Occidente
University Magazine (Princeton)
Writings by Panofsky consist of drafts, notes, and manuscripts of articles, book reviews, books, and lectures. The early writings are in German.
Three letters from Bruce Nauman to Frank Paraday regarding the production of chairs for sculptures by Nauman. The two works referenced are likely South American Circle and South American Triangle.
Correspondence, sketches, a journal, biographical information, printed materials, and photographs of George Parton, and his artist sons Arthur, Ernest, and Henry.
REEL 723: Biographical material, correspondence, and sketches.
REEL 3894: Henry Woodbridge Parton's journal of a sketching trip to the White Mountains, N.H. with Arthur and Ernest Parton, 1871; correspondence; 22 sketches, undated and 1866-1877, 5 signed by Ernest Parton; biographical material; clippings and magazine articles; and two photographs.
UNMICROFILMED: Photocopy of the section of the Parton family biography written by Charles Parton; and award certificates from the Universal Exposition, Paris, to Arthur Parton, 1895, Ernest Parton, 1895 and 1900, and from the World's Columbian Exposition to Ernest, 1893.
The papers of sculptor, author, and poet, William Ordway Partridge, who was active in New York City and Washington, D.C., measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1879-1920, and 1957. This small collection consists primarily of letters to Partridge from artists, political figures, art historians, and authors; drafts and typescripts of Partridge's poems; and two clippings about Partridge's sculpture.
Letters to Partridge mainly relate to Partridge's sculpture, invitations to events, and responses to invitations sent by Partridge. They include requests to visit his studio and view works in progress. Also found are two letters from Robert C. Winthrop, and Samuel Timmins to others which were probably collected by Partridge for the autographs of Winthrop and Timmins. Additional correspondents are noted in the container listing.
Writings by Partridge include loose drafts of his poems and a typescript for a book of a collection of his poems. Writings by others include a draft of an essay "The Actor's Profession" and galley proofs of an untitled poem by Henry Austin, dedicated to James Gillespie Blaine. One news clipping from 1891 relates to Partridge's statue of Alexander Hamilton; another from 1957 recounts the discovery of two busts by Partridge during the demolition of the Manhattan Storage and Warehouse building.
Includes letters from Abraham Archibald Anderson, Paul Wayland Bartlett, Edwin Howland Blashfield, Cyrus Townsend Brady, Edward C. Caswell (illustrated), Franklin B. Clark, Thomas Shields Clarke, and Royal Cortissoz.
Includes letters from Frank Edwin Elwell and Daniel Chester French.
Includes letters from Leandro-Ramon Garrido, Jennie D. Garrison of the Pocahontas Memorial Association, John La Farge, and George Thomas Little regarding the purchase of Partridge's bronze Bust of Admiral Perry.
Includes letters from Henry Mosler, National Academy of Design, and National Arts Club.
Includes 2 letters from Corinne Roosevelt Robinson regarding Bust of Theodore Roosevelt (her brother), Charles H. Sherrill, Marie Peary Stafford regarding bust of her father and discoverer of the North Pole Admiral Robert E. Peary, Edmund Clarence Stedman, and Tertius Van Dyke regarding Partridge's bust of Henry van Dyke.
Correspondence; exhibition catalogs; clippings; writings; photographs; and interviews with David Smith and with Ad Reinhart. Among the correspondents are Anne Arnold, Paul Burlin, Peter Busa, Franz J. Kline, and others.
99 notebooks with notations and sketches, 1939-1976; photographs of Peck, his family, his models and his work; correspondence; exhibition catalogs and announcements; press releases; clippings and a scrapbook of clippings.
Letters, photographs, loan agreements, printed material, and miscellany relating to Adam Peiperl's career as a kinetic artist.
Letters are from museums, galleries, and organizations and include e-mails. Included are one letter each from Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis and Lynda Johnson Robb. Photographs are of Peiperl with Frank Getlein, J. Carter Brown and Lynda Johnson Robb, Victor Borge, and Bunny Mellon, Pierre Levai and Marilla Beth Waesche with Peiperl's work installed at the Marlborough Gallery, New York City. Printed material includes magazine articles, newspaper clippings, and brochures.
Copyprints of Peirce, including one of him with a baby, Pomona, N.Y.(also microfilmed on reel 3025); one of him walking in Tucson, Arizona, ca. 1953; two of him holding a paintbrush, Searsport, Maine, ca. 1960s, photographers unknown; and one of him at the Harvard Club squash court, New York, photographed by Paul Waldo Schwartz, 1961.
Correspondence; scrapbooks; photographs and photo albums; art works; sketchbooks; catalogs; and clippings.
REELS 162-163: 181 letters received and 32 letters sent; a copy of a speech, 1939, by Elbert Thomas on the Jefferson Memorial; watercolors; catalogs; and clippings.
REEL 2025: Three pencil drawings and 25 watercolors of Civil Defense classes, Haverstraw, New York, 1942.
REEL 2329: Two scrapbooks, 1955-1963, containing illustrated postcards and letters with illustrated envelopes which Peirce sent to his son Jonathan, while Jonathan was in school, a photo and a clipping; illustrated postcards and letters with illustrated envelopes from Peirce to Jonathan; a photo album, 1915-1917, of Peirce and others in the American Ambulance Corps in Paris; and a 1958 photo of Peirce and a 1959 photo of Peirce with Ernest Hemingway.
REEL 3025: Five sketchbooks, ca. 1929-1940, containing ca. 500 watercolor, pen and ink, pencil, and charcoal sketches of his children, Mike, Bill, and Anna, his wife, Alzira, scenes at Castine, Maine, friends, and other subjects.and 4 photograph albums, 1903-1956, containing snapshots of Peirce, his family, friends Ernest Hemingway, Max Eastman, Rockwell Kent, and others, taken mainly in France, Castine and Searsport, Maine, Key West, Florida and Provincetown, Massachusetts.
REEL 3470: A self-portrait sketch, ca. 1950.
UNMICROFILMED: Six sketchbooks, ca. 1920-1944, containing pencil sketches and notes.
REEL 1817 AND SCANNED: Five photographs of Waldo Peirce, previously microfilmed under Photos of Artists II, and subsequently scanned and returned to the Peirce papers.
Bills to James Pemberton from Richard Humphreys for silverware, Nov. 12, 1775, and from William Savery for wooden ware and carpenter's work, Dec. 8, 1775; bill and receipt to Joseph Pemberton from James Claypoole for gilding frames, Sept. 9, 1768; an account and bill from Savery to Joseph, Nov. 3, 1775; and a letter to James Pemberton from silversmith Joseph Richardson, July 26, 1783.
Two printed invitations to stag dinners at the Penguin Club.
A 9 p. handwritten draft of an article by Elizabeth Robins Pennell, "The Drawings of Abbott Thayer"; a letter from Pennell to Mr. Woodward commenting on the December 26, 1921 article in the Christian Science Monitor.
Handwritten letter, 4 pages and envelope, dated July 2, 1931. Written by writer Elizabeth Robins Pennell to Boston artist G. William Patten about her husband, artist and author Joseph Pennell.
REEL P24: Visitors' book to Benjamin West's painting "Christ Healing the Sick," and related correspondence and printed material, 1817.
REEL P87: Minutes and excerpts relating to American art and artists; correspondence with Benjamin West; material relating to the loan and donation of art works from West, Thomas Sully, James Traquair and others, Gilbert Stuart and Charles Willson Peale deciding where to hang West's painting "Christ Healing the Sick," the commission of art works, and the facilities for exhibiting work at the hospital.
Correspondence, writings and notes, diaries, scrapbooks, extensive sketchbooks and sketches, photographs and printed materials.
Correspondence (1918-1981) to and from family members, Paul Manner, Penney's teacher Albert Bloch, and others concerns plans for murals and Penney's ideas on art, among other topics. Diaries concern a European trip (1952). Two scrapbooks contain clippings, photographs, letters and exhibition catalogs documenting Penney's career. Fifty-four sketchbooks (1925-1950) contain figure studies, portraits and caricatures, ideas for murals, and scenes in New York City, Kansas, Missouri and elsewhere. Photographs show Penney, family, friends and his works. Printed material includes clippings, newsletters and brochures, and exhibition announcements and catalogs. Other materials include writings, notes, price lists, contracts and other financial material, biographical materials, a journal (1933-1940), notebooks and ca. 300 loose sketches.
ADDITION: Two volumes of lecture notes from art history classes taught by Albert Bloch, University of Kansas (1929-31); research material compiled by Penney relative to Albert Bloch exhibition, Munson-Williams-Proctor Institute, Utica, New York (1974); 53 volumes of sketchbooks and eighteen sketchbooks (1945-1976), which contain scenes of Nebraska, Italy, and Mexico; about 20 studies and sketches for federal government mural projects (1934-1942); loose sketches; slides of paintings, sketches, and mural studies for Flushing High School, the Nebraska Capitol, and Hamilton College mural projects; 52 oversize sketches and studies for federal and non-federal mural projects , including three rolled oil studies (1933-1970s);correspondence (1962-1984); exhibition announcements and catalogs (1930-1983); clippings (1962-1977); family photographs (1913-1982); photographs of works of art and negatives (n.d.) and a mural design show at Utica College (1972); three award medals; and diplomas (high school and university).
The Robert Perine research material on the Chouinard Art Institute measures 1.8 linear feet and date from circa 1923 to circa 1985. Documents consist of research material used in Perine's book Chouinard: An Art Vision Betrayed (1985) including catalogs for the Chouinard Institute and California Institute of the Arts; notes and preliminary writings for the book, including an annotated table of contents and a bibliography; floor plans of the Institute; material concerning the lawsuit brought against the board of trustees in an attempt to prevent the closing of the school; 158 photographs of Nelbert Chouinard, classes, students and buildings; and 27 sound cassettes of interviews of 52 artists and staff, some with partial transcripts.
Material includes footnotes, an annotated table of contents, quotes, and other notes related to Perine's book Chouinard: An Art Vision Betrayed. Also included is Perine's resume.
Printed material includes academic catalogs for both the Chouinard Art Institute and the California Institute of the Arts, newsletter from the Californian Institute of the Arts, newspaper and magazine clipping related to the Chouinard Institute, and copies of legal documents related to the Chouinard Art Institute. The series is arranged chronologically.
Photographs document student life, artwork, faculty, and school grounds at the Chouinard Art Institute.
Found here are interviews Perine conducted with staff of the Chouinard Art Institute for use in his book. There are partial transcripts for some of the interviews. The series is arranged with the transcripts first in alphabetical order followed by the audio cassettes. Since there are multiple interviews on each cassette, the cassettes are in no particular order.
Partial transcripts exist for the following interviews: Rex Brandt, Mrs. Chouinard, Watson Cross, Marc Davis, Harry Diamond, Phil Dike and Sheets, Haines, Hauser, Alex Hovsepian, Bill Moore and James Normile, Phil Paradise, Rubin, Mary Vartikian, and Elin Waite.
Interviews include the following individuals: Huebner, David Thorne, Elmer Plummer, Mrs. Brugger, Brandt, Monohan, M. Clark, James Normile, Sheets, Watson Cross, Hauser, Ed Reep, Mary Vartikian, Haines, Millie Rocque, Ruth Hatfield, Mary Nystrom, Marjory Best, Mrs. Belzer, F. Diamond, Edith Head, Davis, Alex Hovsepian, Bob Mackie, Ned Jacoby, Bob Irwin, Bob, Mason, Corinne Hartley, Lou Danziger, and Rubin.
Interviews include the following: Phil Paradise, V. Partch and George Giroux, D. Constable, La Doriva, Herb Jepson, Ted Gibson, Jim Real, Wal Batterton, Roysher, Geo Hall, Katherine Hall, Mary Lea, Shiela de Bretteville, Wing Fong, Lee Blair, Woelffer, Clay Walker, Lalla Lezli, Cleo Dorman, Sheets, Janice Garbuit, Eva Roberts, Lee Blair, Pauline Annon, Alice Davis, Mary Nystrom, McMillan, Betty Armstrong, Fred Gardner, Rogers, Pokey Baker, Ruth Hatfield, Romero, Harry and fran Diamond, Cross, Marv Rubin, Elin Waite, Dave Smith, Trout, Gabrielson, and Mrs. Chouinard.
Biographical documents; correspondence; diaries; writings; photographs; and printed material. Included are letters to and from Lilla Cabot Perry, and selected letters to and from her husband Thomas Sergeant Perry and daughter Margaret Perry from family members, artists, writers, poets and friends. Correspondents include: Bernard Berenson, Henry James, James Russell Lowell, Claude Monet, Edwin Arlington Robinson, and Edmund Charles Tarbell. Also included are French identification cards for Lilla Cabot Perry and her husband, 1897; diaries of Lilla Cabot Perry, 1874?/1875, 1886, and of Thomas Perry, 1887-1894; guest book of Thomas and Margaret Perry; poems, and "Reminiscences of Claude Monet" by Lilla Cabot Perry; typed commentary by Edwin Arlington Robinson for the jacket of Perry's THE JAR OF DREAMS, with notes by her; "Reminiscences of Edwin Arlington Robinson" by Margaret Perry; inscribed photographs of Henry James and James Russell Lowell, and a signed photograph of Claude Monet; an obituary of Perry; and a Memorial Exhibition catalog.
Correspondence, 1955-1965, clippings and exhibition catalogs relating to Long Island printmakers and exhibitions; and articles by and about Perret.
Four diaries kept by Perry; 1 address book; a scrapbook; and 3 photographs of Perry by George C. Cox.
The microfilmed Armistead Peter, Jr. Papers relating to Paul W. Bartlett contain scattered correspondence between Armistead Peter, Jr. And Paul Wayland Bartlett regarding family matters and a gift of a bronze eagle (1920-1925); and printed materials, including news clippings and a program about Bartlett's statue of Benjamin Franklin (1921), as well as two published articles about Bartlett (1923 and 1925).
The papers of curator Isabel Peterson measure 0.7 linear feet and date from circa 1940 to 1980. The collection document's Peterson's work as United Seamen's Service, Inc., art exhibition director curating the annual Art Exhibition by Merchant Seamen of the United Nations. Found are biographical materials on Peterson, correspondence, interview transcripts, photographs, printed material, a mixed-media scrapbook, and writings.
Biographical materials include a biographical note regarding Peterson's involvement with the Art Exhibition by Merchant Seamen of the United Nations, and rough drafts of her curriculum vitae and resume. Correspondence is with museum directors, government agencies, artists, and those who purchased works at the exhibitions. Found are letters from John Taylor Arms, Leon Kroll, Philip Kappel, Vincent Price, Edward G. Robins, Mrs. Kermit (Belle) Roosevelt, and others. Two transcripts are from radio interviews of Peterson describing and publicizing the exhibition. Photographs are of the exhibitions and of works of art. Printed materials include a copy of Art in the Armed Forces, edited by Aimee Crane, clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs. Of note is an original illustrated booklet advocating for the Merchant Marines and their artwork. Other writings include a report and remarks given at the exhibition. Also found is a mixed-media scrapbook containing scattered photographs of judges at exhibitions and clippings.
The papers of New Hampshire landscape painter William Preston Phelps and his daughter, artist Ina Phelps Hayward, measure 1.1 linear feet and date from 1849-2001, with the bulk of the material dating from the 1890s to the 1920s. Papers include letters from Phelps, and correspondence regarding Ina Phelps Hayward's involvement in her father's 1917 estate sale; sales and legal records related to the Phelps estate; a scrapbook and printed material about William Preston Phelps; a sketchbook of sketches attributed to Phelps; sketches by Ina Phelps Hayward and her husband Roger Hayward; photographs of Phelps, his home and studio in Chesham, New Hampshire, and his artwork; and glass plate negatives, including two of Phelps and thirty-six of his artwork.
Correspondence includes letters from William Preston Phelps to John I. Coggeshall, posthumous letters to Ina Phelps Hayward from various people and institutions regarding Phelps exhibitions, and Karl Gabosh's correspondence relating to his interest in, and research on, Phelps. One letter written in reply to Gabosh encloses a photograph taken by Phelps of Mount Monadnock.
Correspondence and legal records related to the Phelps estate include correspondence with auctioneers J. E. Conant and Co., and with Phelps's attorney; payments and receipts kept by Ina Phelps Hayward documenting her work done on behalf of her father's estate and payments she made to him such as allowances and expenses; legal documentation of Phelps Hayward being appointed her father's guardian; and records of her attempts to protect the integrity of his estate prior to, and after, the 1917 estate sale. Phelps Hayward's notes for the estate sale catalog provide biographical information about her father and lists of his paintings and exhibitions.
A scrapbook contains news clippings primarily about Phelps, two family letters, an invitation to Phelps's studio, an announcement for the exhibition of Phelps's Grand Canyon painting, a catalog of his paintings for sale in 1878, and a loose copy of "A Painter of Monadnock" by Charles E. Hurd, reprinted from The New England Magazine.
A sketchbook, labeled "W. P. Munchen" is attributed to William Phelps and contains figure sketches and sketches of rural and city scenes in pencil. Twelve sketches in pencil and watercolor are by Ina Phelps Hayward and her son, Roger Hayward.
Printed material consists primarily of photocopies of articles about Phelps, and scattered exhibition invitations. Of note are a copy of a 1900 exhibition catalog of Phelps's work with prices, and a copy of the estate sale catalog. Later news clippings document posthumous interest in Phelps's work up to 2001.
Photographs include two studio portraits of Phelps and a photograph of him reclining in his orchard. Also found are photos of an unidentified woman and a baby; a print made from a negative of the Phelps estate sale; photos of Phelps's Chesham home, studio, and surrounding landscape; and photos of his paintings.
Glass plate negatives include two portraits of Phelps and thirty-six negatives of his paintings.
Correspondence consists primarily of letters, 1902-1987, from Philbrick to his future wife, concert pianist Edith Kellogg, in which he describes his travels to Naples, Capri, Spain, and his studies in Paris. Two receipts are from the Academie Colarossi, 1905, and the Adams Davidson Galleries, 1990. Printed material consists of clippings, 1918-1980, 5 exhibition announcements and catalogs, 1977-1989, a program for HANSEL AND GRETEL, a passenger list from the ship ALICE, 1909, and a booklet, 1966, about the Peoples Savings Bank of Cedar Rapids which contains murals by Philbrick. Photographs show life class students at the Art Institute of Chicago, ca. 1908, and works of art.
Materials documenting John McArthur and Alexander Milne Calder's work on Philadelphia City Hall including: F. Faust's THE CITY HALL, PHILADELPHIA, (1879) which contains ca. 200 plates of both the interior and exterior; and a scrapbook of photographs of architectural drawings, plans, and details of ornamentation, identifying most of the sculpture locations and allegorical significance, and photographs of Calder with models.
Correspondence, photographs, writings, interview transcripts, a sound recording, printed material and miscellany concerning the careers of art collectors Joann and Gifford Phillips.
Correspondence is both professional and personal. Photographs are of Richard Diebenkorn, Emerson Woelffer and Robert Motherwell.
Writings are by Gifford Phillips and include a 122 p. manuscript, undated, and an updated version (May 2007) describing his forty-year term as a trustee of the Museum of Modern Art in New York; a 23 p. manuscript "Notes on Frontier Magazine, A Memoir," 2009 in which Phillips writes about his experience starting Frontier magazine in California during the 1950s; "Collecting," 2009, a discussion about collecting art based on Phillips' personal experience; and a 16 p. typescript (with copy on CD), 2011, in which Phillip's writes about his involvement with the Pasadena Museum of Art.
The interview transcript is of a March 2004 interview with Joann and Gifford Phillips conducted by Donita Moorhus for the Phillips Collection in Washington, D.C. The sound recording is a conversation on CD recorded at a public event at SITE, a contemporary arts organization in Santa Fe, N.M., regarding the topic My Life in Art with SITE director Laura Heon, artist Jock Reynolds, and Joann and Gifford Phillips. Printed material includes scrapbooks and newspaper clippings. Miscellany includes appointment books.
Untranscribed interviews conducted by Margot Phillips of, or about, Maine artists. Interviewees include: Conol C. Clark, John and Helen Dirks, Dewitt Hardy, Elyot Henderson, Roby Littlefield, Harmon Neill, Chris Ritter, Alden F. Shum and David Woodbury (2 interviews) regarding his father Charles H. Woodbury.
Also included are six pages of answers to questions asked of George Karfiol about his father Bernard, and a four page transcript of an interview of Peggy Bacon, December 2, 1971.
The records of the Phoenix Gallery measure 0.3 linear feet and date from 1958 to 1977. The records document the history of the gallery through exhibition announcements, exhibition posters, photographs of the gallery and its founding members, membership lists, and recollection from founding members on the history of the gallery.
Drawings, prints, sketchbooks and studies, correspondence, photographs and slides of Pickhardt's work and some of Pickhardt, writings and notes, scrapbook, an album, an audio-tape, art appraisals and inventories, records regarding gifts to museums, printed material, and miscellany.
REEL 964: Three photographs of Pickhardt, undated and 1971; 286 photographs of Pickhardt's paintings, 1934-1971; and 4 photographs of Pickhardt exhibitions at the Pittsfield Museum, 1941, and at the Jacques Seligmann Gallery, 1952-1954.
REEL 987: Four hundred eighty-one numbered sketches and photographs of Pickhardt's abstract paintings, dated Nov. 22, 1954-July 11, 1975.
REEL 1324: Five hundred fifty-one drawings, 1932-1974. Some of the drawings are priced on the verso, and one 1954 drawing includes notes on the process of abstraction.
UNMICROFILMED: One hundred seventy-three pencil, ink, and pastel drawings of figures and abstract forms, 1929-1974, and 36 lithographs and 13 etchings, 1934-1974 (these art works have not been compared to microfilm; it is possible some were previously microfilmed); slides, 1973-1995, of Pickhardt's paintings; and a letter, 1984, describing some of these paintings; two group photographs of Carl and Rosamond Pickhardt, Hyman and Stella Bloom, and Jack Levine, 1992; and photographs of Harold Zimmerman, Hyman Bloom, and Jack Levine (thumbnail size mounted on cardboard).
ADDITION: Biographical sketches; business and personal correspondence; a scrapbook compiled by Pickhardt's mother Louise Fowler Pickhardt, "A record of events in the life of Emile Pickhardt," ca. 1925-1941; an album of postcards and photographs from his European travels in 1929; a copy of Mondays at Nine or Pedagogues on Parade, illustrated by Pickhardt, published by the Harvard Lampoon, Inc., 1931; writings and notes; art appraisals and inventories; sketchbooks and small studies; an audiotape of a radio broadcast on the occasion of Pickhardt's one-person show at the Doris Meltzer Gallery, New York, 1961; photographs of Pickhardt and his works of art; color transparencies of paintings; a videotape, "Carl Pickhardt: A New Sense of Space," for An Uncommon View (Fitchburg Access Television), 1996; newspaper and magazine clippings; records regarding gifts to museums and the disposition of his art collection; and miscellany.
The papers of quiltmaker and curator Sue Pierce relating to the exhibition Full Deck Art Quilts measure 1.4 linear feet, date from 1988 to 2002, and comprise material Pierce collected as curator of the exhibition. The majority of the collection consists of files for each of the 54 participating artists containing correspondence, resumes, painted fabric samples, photographs, printed materials, questionnaires regarding participation in the exhibition, sketches, and artist statements. Other files contain correspondence, an exhibition proposal, photographs and captions, and printed materials. Printed materials include the exhibition catalog, Art Quilts: Playing with a Full Deck, 2 decks of playing cards featuring quilts from the exhibition, the calendar Face Cards from Art Quilts: Playing with a Full Deck, clippings, and other related material.
Series comprises material Pierce collected as curator of the exhibition, including artist files for the 54 participating artists, and printed material. Artist files contain correspondence, resumes, painted fabric samples, photographs, printed materials, questionnaires regarding participation in the exhibition, sketches, and artist statements.
Other files contain correspondence, an exhibition proposal, photographs and captions, and printed materials that include the exhibition catalog written by Pierce and Verna Suit, Art Quilts: Playing with a Full Deck, 2 decks of playing cards featuring quilts from the exhibition, the calendar Face Cards from Art Quilts: Playing with a Full Deck, clippings, and other printed material related to the exhibition. Handwritten notes by Pierce can be found throughout the collection and provide additional information on the records.
Mangat was originally chosen to create a quilt but was ultimately unable to participate and was replaced by Katharine Brainard.
2 decks
The papers of art historian, critic, and curator Robert Pincus-Witten measure 12.0 linear feet and date from 1942-2017. The collection consists of biographical material; color and black and white photographs and negatives; writings by Pincus-Witten; teaching files and printed material; journals; sketches by Pincus-Witten; professional files related to curatorial work; correspondence; artist files maintained by Pincus-Witten; and audiovisual and born digital materials.
The collection includes biographical material such as passports, address books, calendars, report cards, diplomas, and other academic ephemera; journals that document Pincus-Witten's daily personal and professional activities; drafts of articles, essays and other writings by Pincus-Witten; correspondence with friends and colleagues; teaching files from City University of New York that include lecture notes, slide lists, and student correspondence; research files on artists from the circa 1970s-1996; professional files that document Pincus-Witten's work at Gagosian Gallery and other curatorial activities; and photographs and negatives of family, friends, events and works of art. Also included are audio visual material consisting of two reel-to-reel tape recordings and seventeen sound cassettes documenting panels that featured Pincus-Witten, artist interviews, and Pincus-Witten dictating essays; born digital material including a CD-R from Rose Cabot's "The Marks Project" and 5.25 floppy disk(s) that include Pincus-Witten's writings; pencil, ink, and watercolor sketches and sketchbooks; and printed material consisting of exhibition announcements and invitations, pamphlets, press releases, event programs, newsletters, flyers, and clippings.
Materials include report cards, class schedules, diplomas, and other ephemera that document Pincus-Witten's interest in art during his formative years, and his academic career from elementary school through his doctorate. Also included are color and black and white photographs of family, friends, and classmates; headshot proofs taken by Fred Thumhart in 1978; identification documentation including international student IDs and vaccination cards from the late 1950s, United States passports, New York State driver's licenses, and press passes; a 2003 portrait of Pincus-Witten by Martin Summers; notes and letters regarding High School of Music and Art graduation in 1953; a 1991 Queens College retirement certificate; 1950 and 1952 Regional and National Scholastic Art Awards and photographs of works submitted by Pincus-Witten; sketches and portraits drawn by Robert-Pincus Witten in circa 1952; address books filled with business cards, hand written contact information, notes, telephone messages, postcards, letters, photographs, and handwritten addresses on scraps of paper; and a 1942 World War II Ration Book Two.
Correspondence includes letters, post cards, greeting cards, birth announcements, printed emails, and annotated exhibition announcements and invitations from friends, family, artists, galleries, and colleagues. People of note include Mel Boucher, Judy Gantzman, Gary Komarin, David Salle, Sean Scully, and letter from Eleanor Roosevelt to Pincus-Witten's grandmother, "Oma." There are also letters to and from Pincus-Witten's PhD advisor, Joshua C. Taylor, where they discuss Pincus-Witten's thesis and starting his teaching career at Queens College in the 1960s. There are many enclosures in the correspondence files including clippings, sticky notes, research materials related to Alphonse Osbert, color and black and white photographs, photographs of Pincus-Witten and Leon Hecht at events, slides, contracts, sketches, and small works of art. Also included are several postcards and other items that are considered mail art.
Included are Pincus-Witten's personal journals he kept from 1959-1961 while he was living or visiting abroad during graduate school, and from 1971 through 2015. These journals document the daily activities of Pincus-Witten's personal and professional life, most notably his visits to galleries, museums and studios, and encounters with significant figures in the art world. They are filled with annotated scraps of papers noting topics and artists, photographic material, notes, letters, invitations, business cards, clippings, postcards, drawings, event tickets, receipts, annotated cocktail napkins, greeting cards, exhibition announcements and other print material. Excerpts, or entries, from the journals are also found among Pincus-Witten's writings as he published them in a recurring column in Arts magazine from 1976 to 1990.
Writing includes annotated calendars and day planners from 1984-2016; typed and handwritten draft essays, articles, lectures, and journal excerpts from 1978-2002; Pincus-Witten's graduate and undergraduate essays and notes, including his thesis proposal and sample chapters; an undated poem he wrote entitled, "The Wit and Wisdom of Larry Gagosian," writings related to political and critical views dated 1973-1975; and three folders of handwritten notes from circa 1969 to the 2000s. Also included are audio recordings on cassette tapes of Pincus-Witten dictating drafts of his writing in the 1980s and 1990s.
Artist files maintain Pincus-Witten's original arrangement and date from 1950-2016. Materials consist of correspondence including printed emails, postcards, letters and facsimiles; exhibition catalogs, announcements, checklists, posters, and invitations; artists CVs; clippings including reviews of the artists work; draft essays about the artists and their work; lists of works; notes; periodicals; draft presentations; greeting cards; brochures; thank you notes; bibliographies; notecards; photocopies of Pincus-Witten's journal entries related to the artists; invoices; copies of certificates of insurance; color and black and white photographs, negatives, and slides; press releases; travel documentation including itineraries; printed internet articles; interview transcripts; newsletters; holiday cards; a draft eulogy Pincus-Witten wrote for Corice C. Arman; memorial programs and announcements; exhibition checklists and posters; and a birth announcement. Artists of note include Christo and Jean-Claude, Eva Hesse, Liza Lou, Cindy Nemser, Richard Serra, Cy Twombly, and Rose Cabot. Also included is a CD-R from Rose Cabot's "The Marks Project."
Professional files document different aspects of Pincus-Witten's career from 1973-2009. The Gagosian Gallery files date from 1989-1993 and include daily logs in memorandum format and addressed to Larry Gagosian, correspondence, lists of catalogs published by the gallery, invoices, facsimiles, transcribed journal entries, clippings, exhibition catalogs, draft essays, press releases, meeting notes, Yves Klein litigation regarding a possible fake, and a faxed photograph of Pincus-Witten and Leon Hecht. Other materials include documentation related to Pincus-Witten's travels to the 11th Annual International Sculpture Conference in 1980; a 2007 Adi Foundation Symposium in Jerusalem; the 1997 Cunard Cruise to Hamburg where Pincus-Witten gave a series of lectures; a 1995 Paris flight itinerary; an International Art Press Group to Israel in 1986; and color photographs of a trip to Washington, D.C. in circa 1990 and photographs from Israel trips taken between 1975 and 1977. There is a folder from Omni Art Co. that includes correspondence, invoices, email printouts, exhibition announcements, invitations, and a photocopied group photo; correspondence related to a post-minimalism exhibition Pincus-Witten wanted to curate at MoMA that includes correspondence between himself and Bill (William) Rubin from 1973, where they politely discuss a disagreement regarding what defines modern art; and a draft MoMA PS1 Deputy Director contract from 2003. Audiovisual materials in this series include audio recordings on sound cassettes of lectures and panel discussions featuring Pincus-Witten, a Marcel Duchamp interview by Richard Hamilton; and two sound reels of panel discussions with Pincus-Witten including "Disintegration of Minimalism" at the High Museum in 1973. Also included are photographs of Iris Clert artwork, Ray Johnson collages, Jeff Koon's "Pink Panther" in a crate, and 12 folders of reference photographs depicting artist artworks and installations including artists such as Albert Ryder, George Segal, Henry O. Tanner, Joshua Neustein, Eva Hesse, Hector Guimard, Rachel Lalique, Giorgio de Chirico, Bruce D. Kurt, Margaret Wharton, and others.
(includes artwork by Roger Brown, Jean Delville, Bruce D. Kurt, and Jan Toorop)
(includes artwork by Hector Guimard and Rene Lalique)
(includes artwork by Giorgio de Chirico)
(includes artwork by Eva Hesse and Rene Lalique)
(includes artwork by Rupert Carabin and Ferdinand Holder)
(includes artwork by Eva Hesse, Allan Kaprow, and Margaret Wharton)
Teaching files include student correspondence regarding thesis projects and references; handwritten lecture notes with slide descriptions and photocopies of slides from the 1970s; student artwork slides from 1990; a copy of a circa 1989 early modern art class final; annotated draft lectures; clippings; notes for a twentieth century art and theory course; bibliographies; essays written by Pincus-Witten; Sotheby's American Arts course materials from 1988-1989 including faculty lists, teaching assignments, correspondence, meeting minutes, and a copy of Southeby's grading system; CUNY slide lists for lectures; a John Baldessari exhibition checklist; and a description of CUNY's art history doctoral program with proposed curriculum.
Printed material includes wedding invitation packets and programs; opera, theater, and orchestra programs from 1977-2001; gallery, museum, hotel, cruise, and historic site pamphlets; clippings; event menus; artist statements from 2000-2004; blank postcards; event tickets from 1986-1997; exhibition announcements, invitations, and posters; cruise passenger lists; newsletters; clippings related to artists, exhibitions, and performances; memorial service announcements and programs; copies of "Iris Times" and other newsletters; press releases; printed bibliographies; lecture, symposium, and course flyers from 1973-1982; an undated checklist proposal; 2008 and undated art of sale catalogs; photocopies of exhibition catalogs; press releases from 1980-2009; and art ephemera cards.
Artwork includes pencil, ink, and watercolor sketches and sketchbooks created by Robert Pincus-Witten in the late 1950s and early 1990s. Most of the sketches are dated from the late 1990s, and the early 1990s sketches include pencil drawings of Leon Hecht.
Unidentified Born Digital Materials include thirty-one 5.25 floppy disk(s). Labels indicate files contained on the discs may be writings by Pincus-Witten. Some software disk(s) are included.
Catalog listing 27 paintings in a six page catalog. Some listings have dates, descriptions, and excerpts from plays on which images are based; some have title only.
Biographical information; class notes from a 2-dimensional painting class at the Philadelphia College of Art; a typescript from a lecture given by Piper; printed matter documenting her career; and photographs of her studio and of Piper with a painting.
The collection measures 0.2 linear feet and consists of three notebooks, notebook fragments, and two letters created by African American primitive painter Horace Pippin. The notebooks recount Pippin's World War I experiences, including his being wounded. One of the notebooks is illustrated.
This small collection consists of three notebooks and notebook fragments written by Pippin in the 1920s about his World War I experiences while serving in the 15th New York Infantry and as a corporal in the 369th Colored Infantry Regiment at Chateau-Thierry, Soissons, the Argonne, and elsewhere in France. One of the notebooks is illustrated by Pippin with six pencil and crayon drawings of war scenes. Also found are two letters written by Pippin in 1943 and circa 1943. One of the letters is written to Dear Friends and is entitled "life story of art"; the other is written to dealer Robert Carlen.
Pippin recounts his World War I experiences in detail from the time he left the United States on November 17th, 1917 with the 15th N.Y. Infantry for France. Pippin writes of life in the trenches and dug-outs, night forays and traveling through enemy territory, details of days and nights of battles and getting shelled, gassed, and machine gun fire by the Germans, and his perceptions of fighting alongside French and Algerian soldiers. He also recounts the details of getting shot in the shoulder and right arm, lying in the trench too weak to get up, having a French soldier get shot and fall upon him dead and not being able to move out from under the dead man, getting some bread and water from the dead body, and finally being rescued and moved around in the field until being loaded onto an ambulance and taken to one hospital and being transferred to another one.
Illustrated with six pencil and crayon drawings of marching and battle scenes.
A second handwritten account of Pippin's World War I experiences in France. In this notebook, Pippin recounts arriving in France, the cold and the snow, and his perception of the feelings of the French civilians. He also recounts an intense battle with the Germans, apparently the same battle as in the first notebook, but ending before he is shot.
A third handwritten account of Pippin's World War I experiences in France. In this notebook, Pippin again recounts a battle with the Germans in France, most probably the same battle as in the other two notebooks. Note, however, that he spells Argonne as Oregon in this notebook, which differs from the writing on the cover. In this account, he recalls more conversations with fellow soldiers and orders from his officers. Again, this notebook ends before his injury occurs.
Handwritten fragments, possibly from another notebook, recalling the same intense World War I battle in France but prefaced with some of his thoughts on war and soldiering.
One letter, circa 1943, is addressed to "My Dear Friends" and begins with "my life story of art. that is my art, and no one el[c]...." wherein Pippin recounts a childhood memory of creating artwork for a Sunday school sale and how the "war of 1917... brought out all of the art in me" and how he paints from it today.
A second letter dated February 1, 1943 is to Robert Carlen, his dealer. Pippin apologizes for Mr. Carlen thinking that he does not treat his friends or Mr. Carlen's friends "right, in my home, if anyone comes in to [see me] art." Pippin will see to it that Mrs. John D. Hamilton is treated as nice as possible. He goes on to say that he wants Carlen to send his Domino game painting to a show so Dr. Albert C. Barnes can see it.
Biographical material, correspondence, legal and financial material, notes and writings, art work, scrapbooks, sketchbooks, printed material, subject files and photographs.
REEL 4154: Five scrapbooks containing clippings, exhibition brochures, photographs of Pittman and of his works (1934-1969); and two sketchbooks containing European views of landscape and architecture (1927-1956).
REELS 4468-4472: Biographical material; correspondence, 1920-1900, with family, colleagues, students, and patrons, including Ivan Albright, Walter H. Annenberg, John Canaday, Blanchard Gummo, Edward Hopper, Edward G. Robinson, Ann Southern, and others; Pittman's will and estate papers; receipts, 1921-1980; 2 address books; school notebooks; writings by and about Pittman, including his "Drift of Consciousness" manuscript; 4 scrapbooks of drawings, 70 unbound drawings, and 2 prints; a menu decorated with sketches of acrobats and annotated "to H. Pittman from R. Marsh" and "E. Hopper"; files containing letters, printed material, and photographs on topics including Clare Boothe Luce (1946-1972), Margaret Sanger (1947-1974), greeting cards designed by Pittman (1960-1965), Pittman residences (1945-1974), Woodstock artists (1972-1975) and Guggenheim fellowships (1938-1956-contains a travel journal about Italy); a scrapbook of clippings (1938-1971) and clippings (1931-1985); exhibition announcements and catalogs (1930-1989), and other printed material; and photographs of Pittman, his family, friends, art classes (1945-1971), and works of art.
ADDITION: Preliminary works of art by Pittman consisting of 1,538 sketches in watercolor, ink and graphite.
The papers of Boston-based portrait painter Elizabeth Piutti-Barth measure 0.2 linear feet and date from circa 1975 to 1953. Found is a lecture, printed material, and photographs of Piutti-Barth, her family, friends, subjects, homes and studios, and works of art.
An undated typescript of a lecture is entitled "Painting a Portrait." Printed materials include exhibition catalogs and invitations and clippings. The bulk of the papers consists of photographs including snapshots and portraits. Found are photographs of Piutti-Barth as a child and throughout her life, with her artwork, family, friends, and subjects. Also found are photos of her St. Botolph studio, her home, and her still-life and portrait paintings. Subjects of portrait paintings include Governor of Massachusetts Frank Allen, the actress Jeanne Eagles, musicians, and others, many of whom are unidentified.
The papers of New York art collector Silvia Pizitz (1905-1991) date from 1927 to 1989 and measure 1.0 linear feet. Found are artist files, biographical material, correspondence, photographs and slides, and printed material. Of note are records concerning the donation of Pizitz's art collection and material relating to Pizitz's family department store in Birmingham, Alabama.
Artist files are found for Alice Barber, George Chemeche, and Dorothy Gillespie. Files contain photographs, scattered letters, and printed material. Biographical materials include biographical notes, identification cards for art schools, travel papers, and four small date books from the 1980s. Correspondence is with friends and family including writer Joseph Freeman, her siblings, and father Louis Pizitz. Many of the letters concern Silvia Pizitz's strained relationship with her family regarding inheritance and ownership of Pizitz department stores in Alabama. Records on the donation of her art collection to Cornell University, New York University, the University of Birmingham and other institutions include correspondence, appraisals, deeds of gift, and shipping records.
Personal photographs include snapshots and portraits of Pizitz, Pizitz with friends and family, and travel. Photographs, negatives, and slides of works of art are by others, and are presumably pr items from Pizitz's collection. Some photos are of works by Raeford Liles. Of note are photos from an exhibition at the Birmingham Museum of Art of the Silvia Pizitz Collection. Printed materials include clippings and exhibition announcements, many of which concern the Pizitz family and her art collection. Also found are commemorative materials produced for or by the Pizitz department store to celebrate milestones and accomplishments.
The papers of art critic and painter Peter Plagens measure 4.9 linear feet and date from 1941-1985. Included are personal and professional correspondence; diaries; an interview of Plagens conducted by Mike Lloyd, 1977 (80 p.); photographs of Plagens, his family, studio, and art work; files on lectures, grants, fellowships, exhibitions, and a petition against the Los Angeles County Museum of Art; drafts of writings; files on Plagen's book, Sunshine Muse: Contemporary Art on the West Coast (1974); and 20 ink drawings and several drawings by Plagen's young son, Paul.
Correspondence and publications reflecting the collecting activities of Platt. Correspondents include Bernard Berenson, Philip Hofer, Frank J. Mather, Richard Offner, John Singer Sargent, and others.
Complete bound run [v.1-9, 1919-1924]. Contains many original hand-pulled woodcuts and linocuts. Among the many contributing artists are George Biddle, Jerome Blum, James Chapin, Adolf Dehn, William Gropper, Alfred Maurer, Boardman Robinson, John Storrs, F. Vollaton, Max Weber, and Marguerite and William Zorach. Ezra Pound, Dorothy Parker, and Robert C. Benchley are among the many well known literary contributors.
The papers of figure and still life painter Carolyn Gassan Plochmann measure 4.8 linear feet and date from 1926-2013. Included are works of art, correspondence, writings, gallery files, exhibition and art fair files, project and organization files, biographical information, photographs and slides, and printed material.
Works of art consist of sketches and drawings. Correspondence is with friends, family and associates, including Lawrence Fleischman, Bella Fishko, Roy Rogosin, John W. Streetman III, Alfeo Faggi, Mr. and Mrs. David Rockefeller, Ben Shahn, and Plochmann's husband George Kimball Plochmann, among others. Writings are by Plochmann and others including a portfolio about Plochmann's work, University Portrait, with an introduction by Blake-More Godwin and a foreword by R. Buckminster Fuller [1959]. Gallery files concern the Kennedy Galleries and the Forum Gallery in New York and Art on the Square in Carbondale, Ill., and contain correspondence, financial information and consignment forms. Exhibition and art fair files include correspondence, loan forms, entry forms and programs. Project and organization files relate to building of the University School art building at the Southern Illinois University, and the Woodstock Artist's Association. Personal business records includes receipts. and a VHS videotape A Charmed Vision: The Art of Carolyn Plochmann with John Streetman and Otto Wittman [1990]. Photographs and slides are of Plochmann, her family, and works of art. Printed material includes exhibition catalogues and announcements, newspaper clippings, and miscellany.
Letter from Plunguian to Dr. Ruth Emery and a photograph of Plunguian and Albert Einstein, who sits for a bust Plunguian is sculpting.
Letters to Poinsett from: John S. Cogdell (Dec. 20, 1824 and Aug. 29, 1834); Thomas Sully (5- Dec. 27, 1825 - Apr. 20, 1828); James Herring (Sept. 21, 1837); James B. Longacre (July 10, 1838); John B. White (Mar. 10, 1839 and Apr. 1844); George Catlin (c. 1839 and Nov. 24, 1839); Ferdinand Pettrich (Jan. 6, 1840); and John G. Chapman (Feb. 4, 1841). Also included are a letter to Pettrich from P. O'Neill (Jan. 1, 1840), and from Herring to James Lawrenson (Jan. 27, 1839).
The Stephen Poleskie papers and Chiron Press records measure 1.0 linear feet and date from circa 1961-2020, with the bulk from 1963-1968. The collection documents Poleskie's own career as an artist as well as the activities of Poleskie's Chiron Press, New York City's first fine art screen printing studio. The collection includes personal and business correspondence with artists, dealers, collectors, and curators; business and financial records; legal documents; notes and writings by Poleskie; clippings, news articles, catalogs, a copy of The Paris Review, preparatory materials for screen prints; photographic materials which includes a photograph of Elaine de Kooning; and digital video recordings related to works by Poleskie.
The collection includes personal and business correspondence with artists, dealers, collectors, and curators; business and financial records; legal documents; notes and writings by Poleskie; clippings, news articles, catalogs, a copy of The Paris Review, preparatory materials for screen prints; photographic materials which includes a photograph of Elaine de Kooning; and digital video recordings related to works by Poleskie.
Also includes a photograph of Elaine de Kooning and Nick Kruschnik.
The papers of abstract expressionist painters Jackson Pollock and wife Lee Krasner measure 16.1 linear feet and date from circa 1914 to 1984, with the bulk of the material dating from 1942 to 1984. The collection documents their personal and professional lives, as well as the legacy of Jackson Pollock's work after his death. Found are biographical material, correspondence, writings by Krasner and others, research material, business and financial records, printed material, scrapbooks, artwork by others, photographs, interview transcripts, audio and video recordings, and motion picture film.
The collection is divided into two series, the first of which focuses on Pollock and includes his scattered papers dating from circa 1914 to his death in 1956, as well as Krasner's papers dating from his death to 1984 about managing Pollock's legacy. This series includes biographical materials, including transcripts and audio recordings of an interview with William Wright in 1949; Pollock's and Krasner's correspondence with Thomas Hart Benton, Betty Parsons Gallery, Bill Davis, B. H. Friedman, Reginald Isaacs, Sidney Janis, Violet De Lazlo, Martha Jackson Gallery, Alfonso Ossorio, Tony Smith, and Clyfford Still, and with one another; Krasner's correspondence concerning Pollock's estate and artwork after his death; numerous writings about Pollock, including an original draft of Bryan Robertson's biography and an essay by Clement Greenberg.
James Valliere extensive research files on Pollock for a never-published biography were given to Krasner and filed in Series 1. These include scattered correspondence with Lee Krasner, and Pollock's family and friends, including Charles Pollock, Thomas Hart Benton, and Robert Motherwell. There are also transcripts of interviews Valliere conducted with Pollock's friends and colleagues, including James Brooks, Dorothy Dehner, Clement Greenberg, Reuben Kadish, Lee Krasner, Charles Maddox, Mrs. Sanford McCoy, Daniel T. Miller, Robert Miller, and Tony Smith. The original audio reels and duplicates exist for many and are filed here. Additional interviews were conducted with Willem de Kooning, Alfonso Ossorio, and Burton Rouche, but not transcribed - these are filed in Series 1.10, Audio Recordings and Motion Picture Film.
Also found in Series 1 are scattered business records documenting Krasner's handling of Pollock's estate and legacy; printed materials relating to Pollock, including published biographies, exhibition catalogs, and clippings; two scrapbooks; and a sketchbook by an unidentified artist. Numerous photographs of Pollock include childhood and family photographs, photographs of Pollock in his studio by Hans Namuth, Rudy Burckhardt, and Herbert Matter, photographs of Pollock with Lee Krasner, and exhibition photographs. Audio recordings and motion film in Series 1 include a 1964 16mm film about Pollock (VHS copies are available) and reel-to-reel recordings of untranscribed interviews of Pollock's friends and colleagues by James Valliere, including interviews with Willem de Kooning and Alfonso Ossorio. Additional transcribed interviews are filed in subseries 1.4.
Lee Krasner's papers documenting her own career are arranged in Series 2 and date from 1927-1984. Biographical materials include resumes and awards, school documents, family documentation, and exhibition lists. Her correspondence with artist friends and art colleagues is extensive and includes many letters from artists such as Philip Johnson, Ray Eames, Cleve Gray, and Hans Namuth. She also maintained correspondence with many art historians and critics, curators, gallery owners, collectors, arts-related and social organizations, admirers, and family members.
There are thirteen transcripts of interviews with Krasner by Bruce Glaser, Barbara Cavaliere, Andrew Forge, Emily Wasserman, Barbara Rose, and others. The original audio recordings for these transcripts are filed in series 2.10, along with other audio recordings for which there are no transcripts, including interviews by John Gruen, Delores Holmes, Mercedes Matter, the Martha Dean Radio Show, NBC Today Show, and WQXR radio. There are also audio recordings of Krasner's lectures in series 2.10.
Krasner's papers also include writings and reminiscences by Krasner; writings about Krasner; printed materials such as exhibition catalogs and clippings; and one scrapbook containing clippings and photographs. Numerous photographs are of Krasner, including portrait photographs taken by Hans Namuth; of Krasner with Jackson Pollock and family and friends, and of her exhibitions and artwork.
Users should note that Pollock's and Krasner's papers contain similar types of material that often overlap in subject matter, especially among the correspondence and photographs.
This series contains Jackson Pollock's papers and Lee Krasner's papers about managing Jackson Pollock's artistic legacy. Biographical material includes artist statements and notes, a transcript of an interview with William Wright and the original audio recording, Pollock's birth certificate, and his passport. Correspondence, both personal and professional and spanning 55 years, includes Pollock's and Krasner's correspondence with museums, gallery owners, biographers, students, fans, family, and fellow artists. Correspondents include, among others, Pollock's teacher Thomas Hart Benton and friends Reginald Isaacs, Clyfford Still, Alfonso Ossorio, and Tony Smith. Writings about Pollock include drafts of essays, articles, lectures, and biographies and include essays by Lee Krasner and Clement Greenberg.
James Valliere extensive research files on Pollock for a never-published biography were given to Krasner. The files include scattered research notes, an inventory of Pollock's library, correspondence with Lee Krasner, and Pollock's family and friends, including Charles Pollock, Thomas Hart Benton, and Robert Motherwell. There are also transcripts of interviews Valliere conducted with Pollock's friends and colleagues, including James Brooks, Dorothy Dehner, Clement Greenberg, Reuben Kadish, Lee Krasner, Charles Maddox, Mrs. Sanford McCoy, Daniel T. Miller, Robert Miller, and Tony Smith. The original audio reels and duplicate tapes for many of the transcripts are filed here. There are photographs of two of the interview sessions. Audio recordings for which there are no transcripts are filed in series 1.10 Audio and Video Recordings and Film.
Business records primarily concern Lee Krasner's handling of the exhibition and sale of Pollock's artwork after his death. Included are a guest book for the Venice "Bienale", exhibition lists, account statements and inventory lists, lists of owners of his work, appraisal documents, legal documents, receipts, and other miscellaneous records. Printed material consists of book proofs, numerous newspaper and magazine clippings spanning forty years, and as well as exhibition catalogs, announcements, and invitations to solo and group exhibitions. This series also includes two scrapbooks kept by Pollock and Krasner of news clippings and exhibition announcements, and one sketchbook by an unidentified artist.
Numerous rare photographs found in this series include those of Pollock as a child, with his family and friends, with Lee Krasner, and at work in his Long Island studio, some of which were taken by photographers Hans Namuth and Rudy Burckhardt. Also found are photographs of exhibitions of Pollock's artwork. Audio and video recordings and film in this series include the motion picture film "Jackson Pollock: A Reconsideration," VHS copies of same, and several untranscribed reel-to-reel audio recordings of interviews about Pollock with Alfonso Ossorio, Willem De Kooning, Ruth and Tino Nivola, and Burton Rouche conducted by James Valliere during his research. Audio recordings of interviews with transcripts are filed with Valliere's research files in 1.4.
Biographical material includes eleven folders of biographical statements and various notes by Pollock, as well as identification items such as his birth certificate and passport. Also found is a audio recording and transcript of a 1949 interview of Pollock by his neighbor William Wright.
Correspondence prior to 1956 is Jackson Pollock's, and correspondence after 1956 is Lee Krasner's concerning Pollock's artwork and estate. Correspondence is with galleries and museums that exhibited Pollock's work, including several folders concerning exhibitions at the Museum of Modern Art. There is fan fan mail, student inquiries, requests for reproductions, and correspondence concerning restoration work. Correspondents of note include Thomas Hart Benton, Tony Smith, Reginald Isaacs, Clyfford Still, and Alfonso Ossorio, gallery owners Betty Parsons, Sidney Janis, and Martha Jackson, and biographers B.H. Friedman, Francis O'Connor, and Bryan Robertson. Also found are condolence letters and flower cards to Lee Krasner after Pollock's death. There is also a 1936 letter to Pollock from David Alfaro Siqueiros and postcards from Helen Frankenthaler and Clement Greenberg.
Found here are essays, articles, lectures, and biographies about Jackson Pollock. There is an original draft of the Bryan Robertson biography of Jackson Pollock, an essay by Clement Greenberg, and an essay written by Lee Krasner after Pollock's death which discusses his career, personal life, and their relationship.
James Valliere was a graduate student at the University of New Hampshire who was employed in 1963 by Lee Krasner to begin researching Pollock's early career and compile a general catalog of his work. Valliere never published the results of his research and the materials were kept by Lee Krasner. Found here is correspondence between Valliere and Lee Krasner, as well as Valliere's research correspondence with other family members, and Pollock's friends and colleagues. There is correspondence with Mr. and Mrs. Charles Pollock, Sanford McCoy (Pollock's brother), Jay Pollock, Thomas Hart Benton, Robert Motherwell, and the Art Students League of New York. Also found are transcripts and audio recordings of interviews conducted by Valliere with those who knew Pollock well, including James Brooks, Reuben Kadish, Tony Smith, Clement Greenberg, and Pollock's sister-in-law Mrs. Sanford (Arloie) McCoy wherein she reads several letters Jackson wrote to his father from New York. Also included in this series are some of Valliere's research notes and photographs of James Brooks, and Pollock's friend Daniel Miller taken during their interviews. Untranscribed audio recordings of interviews are filed in series 1.10: Audio and Video Recordings and Film.
Business records document Lee Krasner's handling of Pollock's estate and exhibition of his artwork after his death. Found here are miscellaneous business records, including price lists, lists of items loaned for exhibitions, warehouse and shipping receipts, conservation receipts, and other handwritten notes. There are lists of owners of paintings and exhibitions, a guest book from the Venice "Biennale, and a complete appraisal of 37 Jackson Pollock drawings. There is also a folder of account statements and inventory lists from the Marlborough Gallery. Legal Documents include a deposition by Francis O'Connor regarding his interviews with Pollock's therapist, Dr. Joseph Henderson.
Printed materials include books and book proofs, such as a small book in Italian critiquing Pollock's work and proofs for two biographies by Frank O'Hara and Bryan Robertson, magazines with feature articles on Pollock, and numerous newspaper and magazine clippings spanning forty years. Also found are exhibition catalogs, posters, press releases, announcements, and invitations for both Pollock's solo and group exhibitions.
Two scrapbooks contain newspaper clippings, magazine clippings, and exhibition announcements. One was created by Pollock and Krasner, and the other was created by Krasner in the years following Pollock's death.
Found here is one sketchbook containing primarily ink drawings and diagrams by an unidentified artist.
Found here are extensive photographs of Pollock. There are many photographs of Pollock as a child and teenager and with his family, of Pollock with Lee Krasner in the studio, outdoors, at their home on Long Island, and with family and friends, including photographs from a 1950 Pollock family reunion held at their home. Also found are exhibition photographs, including his 1951 solo exhibition at Betty Parsons Gallery, as well as photos of Pollock's studio, and a few other miscellaneous images. Several of the photographs of Pollock in his studio were taken by Herbert Matter, Hans Namuth, and Rudy Burckhardt. Photographs taken by Herbert Matter were previously incorrectly attributed to Wilfrid Zogbaum. Significant figures photographed with Pollock include Clement Greenberg, Helen Frankenthaler, James Brooks, and David Alfaro Siqueiros. There are also numerous photographs and slides of Pollock's works of art that have not been scanned. Photographs are arranged according to subject and chronologically within each folder.
This subseries contains a 16 mm film about Pollock, entitled, "Jackson Pollock: A Reconsideration," including a reel of outtakes, produced in 1964 by Channel 13 WNDT, the Educational Broadcasting Corporation. There are also VHS copies of the film. Also found are untranscribed audio recordings of interviews conducted by James Valliere while he was researching Pollock's early career and artwork for a never-published book on Pollock. Interviews are with artists Willem De Kooning and Alfonso Ossorio, and Pollock's friends Burton Rouche. Researchers should also see Series 1.4: James Valliere Research Material on Jackson Pollock for additional recordings of interviews with transcripts.
File includes lab records and original envelope found with film
This series consists primarily of papers documenting Lee Krasner's artistic career and personal life during the last twenty years of her life. The bulk of the material dates from 1964 to 1984. Biographical material documents Krasner's family background, education, and career through chronologies, awards, resumes, exhibition lists, bibliographies, address books, and mementoes from Krasner's 1965 trip to England. Professional and personal correspondence is with gallery owners, curators, art historians and critics, students, fans, family, and fellows artists such as Cleve Gray, Alfonso Ossorio, and Philip Johnson.
There are thirteen transcripts of interviews with Krasner conducted by art historians and journalists. The interviews discuss Krasner's life and career, the art scene in New York, and her relationship with Jackson Pollock. Original audio recordings exist for many of the interviews and are filed in 2.10, Audio and Video Recordings. Writings by others consist of draft essays about Krasner and her artwork; writings by Lee Krasner consist of handwritten lecture notes and notes containing reminiscences. Business and financial records consist of loan forms, sales lists, guest lists, exhibition checklists, and other miscellaneous materials. Krasner's papers also include one scrapbook of news clippings and photographs from her 1965 Whitechapel exhibition.
Printed material consists of exhibition materials for Krasner's solo and group shows, event announcements, programs, numerous newspaper and magazine clippings, and faculty materials for her work at the Cooper Union. Numerous photographs include photographs of Krasner with Pollock, family, and friends, and photos of her home and studio. The majority of photographs are professional portraits of Krasner taken throughout her career, including portraits by Hans Namuth. Also found are photographs of Krasner at exhibitions, exhibition installations, and photographs of her artwork. Audio and video recordings include Krasner interviews, recorded radio and television shows, lectures, and a VHS recording of "Pollock a Beaubourg. Transcripts for many of the interviews are filed in Series 2.3.
Found here are Lee Krasner's genealogical notes, school transcripts, certificate of marriage to Jackson Pollock, and Who's Who biographies. Also included are resumes and artist statements, chronologies, exhibition lists, bibliographies, and address books. Awards and certificates include an award medal for the Chevalier de l'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres. There are also mementos such as brochures, receipts, programs, and letters, from her 1965 visit to England for the Whitechapel Gallery exhibition.
Lee Krasner's correspondence spans over forty years, but the bulk of it ranges from 1970 to her death in 1984. Found here is correspondence with galleries and gallery owners that represented her, exhibited her work, or requested her work for potential exhibitions. Krasner was friends with many artists and art professionals and her personal correspondence includes many letters from artists such as Philip Johnson, Ray Eames, Cleve Gray, and Hans Namuth. She also corresponded with art historians and critics, curators, collectors, arts and social organizations, admirers, and family members. Additionally, this series includes fan mail, student inquiries, correspondence with journalists and publishers, requests for her to lecture, and business correspondence on the sale of her work. There are numerous letters and telegrams congratulating Krasner on exhibitions, such as the 1965 Whitechapel retrospective and extensive documentation of her 1958 commission to create a mural for Uris Brothers, Inc.
See Index for List of Notable Correspondents from Series 2.2
This subseries contains transcripts of interviews of Lee Krasner conducted by various art historians and journalists. The interviews discuss Krasner's work, the early abstract expressionist movement, her relationship with Jackson Pollock, and the "New York art world". Two of the transcripts are for broadcast interviews, including a 1979 interview with Barbara Novak for WGBH New Television Workshop, Boston. Transcripts are arranged chronologically. Audio recordings for these interviews are filed in Series 2.10.
This subseries includes draft essays, many with annotations, about Lee Krasner and her artwork. Items are arranged chronologically.
This subseries includes a few lecture notes by Lee Krasner as well as handwritten notes about her life and memories.
Scattered business and financial records date primarily from 1967 to 1983 and include exhibition checklists, conservation forms, loan forms, sales and price lists, warehouse and shipping receipts, guest lists, account statements and other handwritten lists and notes. There is documentation from the Robert Miller Gallery, Pace Gallery, the Whitney museum, and the Marlborough gallery.
This scrapbook documents a 1965 exhibition of Krasner's work at Whitechapel Gallery in London. The scrapbook was created by the President of Marlborough Gallery, Pierre Levai, and includes news clippings about the event and photographs of the exhibition installation.
Printed material documents Lee Krasner's career and includes solo and group exhibition catalogs, announcements, press releases, and numerous newspaper and magazine clippings. There are also newsletters, event calendars, annual reports, and documentary film announcements for films about Krasner. Schedules, directories, instructions, and other faculty materials are from Krasner's semester as a faculty member at Cooper Union. Miscellaneous printed material includes primarily programs, brochures, and invitations to events. There is also an "Odds and Ends" folder. Items are arranged by type of material and chronologically within each folder.
Lee Krasner's personal photographs and photographs of her artwork are filed here, including one of her painting in the studio and portraits of her at the WPA pier. The majority of the photographs in this subseries are professional portraits taken of Lee Krasner throughout her career. Some of the portraits depict her home and painting in her studio. Photographers of note are Hans Namuth, Renate Ponsold, and Ray Eames, and one by Irving Penn. All portraits of Krasner are grouped by photographer and arranged chronologically.
Personal and family photographs include photos of Krasner on the beach, circa 1939, and with family and friends. Photographs of Krasner with Jackson Pollock were taken at the beach, with family, and at their home in the Springs. There are also photographs of the two of them outside of their home and in the studio, taken by Wilfred Zogbaum. There are photographs of Lee Krasner at various exhibitions, including her 1973 exhibition at the Whitney Museum of American Art.
Photographs of artwork include photographs of Krasner's work in various medium, such as ink, collage, lithographs, and mosaic, as well as the artwork she did for the WPA. Photographs of artwork have not been scanned.
This subseries consists primarily of audio recordings of interviews with Lee Krasner that discuss her career, her relationship with Jackson Pollock, and Pollock's career. The recordings include interviews conducted by John Gruen for the Casper Citron radio show, one for the Martha Dean radio show, and one for the "Today Show". Another interview of note was conducted by fellow artist Mercedes Matter. Transcripts for most of these interviews are filed in Series 2.3.
Also found in this series are two recorded lectures given by Lee Krasner, and two copies VHS video recordings about Pollock and a 1982 exhibition of his work, "Pollock a Beaubourg". Items are arranged chronologically.
CD is access copy.
Correspondence, writings, works of art, exhibition and printed material.
Reels D235- D236 Correspondence; journals; notebooks containing an index of Pollack's paintings; and a sketchbook.
UNMICROFILMED: Business and personal correspondence; sketchbooks; printed material; teaching notes; biographical material; exhibition announcements and brochures, and catalogs.
The papers of Henry Varnum Poor measure 12.9 linear feet and date from 1873-2001, with the bulk from the period 1904-1970. Correspondence, writings, artwork, printed material and photographs document Poor's work as a painter, muralist, ceramic artist and potter, architect, designer, writer, war artist, educator and a co-founder of the Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture. Also found is extensive information about the design and construction of Crow House, his home in New City, New York, commissions for other architectural projects, and his personal life.
Henry Varnum Poor's correspondence documents his personal, family, and professional life. Correspondents include family and friends, among them George Biddle, Charles Burchfield, John Ciardi, Marion V. Dorn (who became his second wife), Philip Evergood, Lewis Mumford, John Steinbeck, David Smith, and Mrs. John Work (Alice) Garrett. Among other correspondents are galleries, museums, schools, organizations, fans, former students, and acquaintances from his military service and travels. Family correspondence consists of Henry's letters to his parents, letters to his parents written by his wife, and letters among other family members.
Among the writings by Henry Varnum Poor are manuscripts of his two published books, An Artist Sees Alaska and A Book of Pottery: From Mud to Immortality. as well as the text of "Painting is Being Talked to Death," published in the first issue of Reality: A Journal of Artists' Opinions, April 1953, and manuscripts of other articles. There are also film scripts, two journals, notes and notebooks, lists, speeches, and writings by others, including M. R. ("Muktuk") Marston's account of Poor rescuing an Eskimo, and Bessie Breuer Poor's recollections of The Montross Gallery.
Subject files include those on the Advisory Committee on Art, American Designers' Gallery, Inc., William Benton, Harold Dickson, Reality: A Journal of Artists' Opinions Sales, and War Posters. There are numerous administrative files for the Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture.
Artwork by Henry Varnum Poor consists mainly of loose drawings and sketches and 45 sketchbooks of studies for paintings, murals, and pottery. There is work done in France, 1918-1919, and while working as a war correspondent in Alaska in 1943. There are commissioned illustrations and some intended for his monograph, A Book of Pottery: From Mud to Immortality. Also found are a small number of watercolors and prints. Work by other artists consist of Anne Poor's drawings of her father's hands used for the Lincoln figure in The Land Grant Frescoes and interior views of Crow House by Ernest Watson.
Documentation of Poor's architectural projects consists of drawings and prints relating to houses designed and built for Jules Billing, MacDonald Deming, John Houseman, Burgess Meredith, Isabel Padro, and Elizabeth S. Sargent. Also found is similar material for the new studio Poor built in 1957 on the grounds of Crow House.
Miscellaneous records include family memorabilia and two motion picture films, Painting a True Fresco, and The Land Grant Murals at Pennsylvania State College.
Printed material includes articles about or mentioning Poor, some of his pottery reference books, family history, a catalog of kilns, and the program of a 1949 Pennsylvania State College theater production titled Poor Mr. Varnum. Exhibition catalogs and announcements survive for some of Poor's shows; catalogs of other artists' shows include one for Theodore Czebotar containing an introductory statement by Henry Varnum Poor. Also found is a copy of The Army at War: A Graphic Record by American Artists, for which Poor served as an advisor. There are reproductions of illustrations for An Artist Sees Alaska and Ethan Frome, and two Associated American Artists greeting cards reproducing work by Poor.
Photographs are of Henry Varnum Poor's architectural work, artwork, people, places, and miscellaneous subjects. This series also contains negatives, slides, and transparencies. Images of architectural work include exterior and interior views of many projects; Poor's home, Crow House, predominates. Photographs of artwork by Poor are of drawings, fresco and ceramic tile murals, paintings, pottery and ceramic art. People appearing in photographs include Henry Varnum Poor, family members, friends, clients, juries, students, and various groups. Among the individuals portrayed are Milton Caniff, Marcel Duchamp, Wharton Esherick, M. R. ("Muktuk") Marston, and Burgess Meredith. Among the family members are Bessie Breuer Poor, Marion Dorn Poor, Anne Poor, Eva Poor, Josephine Graham Poor, Josephine Lydia Poor, Peter Poor, and unidentified relatives. Photographs of places include many illustrating village life in Alaska that were taken by Poor during World War II. Other places recorded are French and California landscapes, and family homes in Kansas. Miscellaneous subjects are exhibition installation views, scenes of Kentucky farms, and a photograph of Poor's notes on glazes.
This series includes Poor's desk diary containing sporadic, sparse notes along with addresses and phone numbers; army discharge material; biographical notes on Poor by Bessie Breuer Poor and others; a desk diary; genealogical material; medical documents; and wills of Henry Varnum Poor and Bessie Breuer Poor. Awards and certificates document: Carnegie Institute Third Prize, 1933; Limited Editions Club Fellowship in Book Illustration, 1937; announcement of gold medal award from the Architectural League of New York, 1938; appointment to the U.S. Commission of Fine Arts, 1941; and membership certificate, National Institute of Arts and Letters, 1943. The posthumous item is a proclamation of Henry Varnum Poor Centennial Month, Clarkstown, New York, 1987.
Oversized material housed in OV 18
Henry Varnum Poor's correspondence documents his personal life and professional activities in a number of fields. Correspondents include family and friends, among them George Biddle, Charles Burchfield, John Ciardi, Marion V. Dorn (who became his second wife), Philip Evergood, Lewis Mumford, John Steinbeck, David Smith, and Mrs. John Work (Alice) Garrett. Other correspondents are individuals representing galleries, museums, schools, and organizations. There is fan mail from readers of his books, and letters from former students and colleagues, as well as friends and acquaintances from his military service and travels.
Family correspondence consists mainly of incoming letters from Henry to his parents Albert J. and Josephine Poor about his education, travels, World War I experiences, and his teaching and painting career. Scattered throughout are letters from his wife Bessie Breuer Poor to his parents, and from Anne and Peter. Correspondence between Albert and Josephine Poor was written in 1911 while she was traveling in Europe with Henry. Also found are letters from other relatives and friends. A few letters are addressed to Lena Wiltz, Henry Varnum Poor's first wife. After the death of Josephine Poor circa 1940, Poor's letters are addressed to his sister Eva and her husband Herbert Stone. Josephine Poor's relatives, the Graham family, are represented by a small number of 19th century letters.
Nineteenth century letters are from Josephine Poor's relatives, the Graham family. Items post-dating Poor's lifetime consist of condolence letters, correspondence regarding Poor's papers and writings, estate matters, loans, and exhibitions.
Missing Title
A. Tollizini Tile Works, Inc.
Adler, F. Charles
Alaska, State of
Alden, Ray
Allhouse, Mary
American Artists Group
American Craftsmen's Educational Council Inc.
Anderson, Mrs. Maxwell
Art Institute of Chicago
Atkin, William Wilson
Audubon Artists
Missing Title
Bachrach, Walter
Bennett College
Benton, Bill
Biddle, George
Bitterman, Eleanor
Blake, Mrs. Tiffany
Bousios, Basil Nicholas Hellenagoras
Boutis, T.
Bowles, Len
Brock, Mildred
Brockie
Brown, Hilton
Bruce, Peggy
Burchfield, Charles
Missing Title
Callahan, Kenneth
Campbell, Mrs. Jewett
Canfield, Ruth
Caniff, Milton
Carrighar, Sally
Chapman State Bank
Choinski, W.F.
Ciardi, John and Judith
Columbia University
Commerce Trust Company
Commission of Fine Arts
Curtis, Ron
Missing Title
Devan, Sylvia
Diederich, Hunt
Dignam (?), Hester
Dybbro, Tesse
Missing Title
Estelle Mandel Agency
Evergreen House Foundation
Evergood, Phillip
Eyerly, Jeannie
Missing Title
Fanning, Maggie
Federal Works Agency, Public Buildings Administration
Federal Seaboard Terra Cotta Corporation
Fieldhouse, Murray
Flack, Frank
Fraser, James
Friant, Jim
Missing Title
Galerie Morency
Garnett, David
Garrett, Alice
Gerard, Constance
Giacomini, L.
Greeft, Adele
Green, Sam
Missing Title
Hamlin, Jane
Hayman, D.
Heliker, John
Henson, William
Hilton, Elizabeth
Hoffman, Letha
Holabird, Dorothy
Hooper, M.
Houseman
Howarth, Pauline
Howell, J.F.
Humenho, Alexander
Missing Title
Hougland, Josephine Poor
Missing Title
Jensen, Richard
Jones, Joseph
Johnson, Edward
Missing Title
Kansas State College
Kansas State University
Kappo
Kelly, Jack
Kienbusch, William
Koffler, Bob
Missing Title
Leach, Bernard
Lentz, Harris
Levenstein, Harper
London New Art School
Lorson, Mrs. Clem
Missing Title
Mager, N.H.
Mangravite, Peppino
Markham, Kyra
Marston, M.R.
McKenzie, Richard
Mikkelson Family
Mitchell, C.L.
Mitrotti, Leslie
Moore, Mary McClure
Muller, Ray
Mumford, Lewis
Missing Title
National Academy of Design
National Institute of Arts and Letters
New York University
New World Foundation
Missing Title
Office of Emergency Management
O'Neil, J.F.
Missing Title
Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts
Pennsylvania Bar Association
Peterson, Alberta
Phillips, Miriam
Pomerance, Ralph
Poor, Henry 
Poor, Herbert
Poor, Val
Poor
Postrung, R.
Missing Title
Ramsbusch, Viggo
Reed, Bob
Reeves, Ruth
Reynolds Enterprises
Riddens, Shaskins
Rockland Light and Power Company
Rossin, Alfred
Ryan, Lila
Missing Title
Sain, Lydia
Salina Art Association
Saltonstall and Morton
San Francisco Art Association
Sanchez, Tony
Sands, Mrs. Edward
Scheftel, Geraldine
Scherfee, Samuel
Shapero, Mrs. Harold
Short, Marie
Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture
Spina, Paul
Springfield High School Art Association
Sloper, Ann
Smith, Claude
Smith, David
Smithsonian Institution
Soyer, Raphael
Steinbeck, John
Stevens, Marti
Stillman
Stone, Eva and Herbert
Stone, Vivian and Charles
Strong, F.S.
Sullivan, George
Swain, Allen
Syracuse Museum of Fine Arts
Syracuse University
Missing Title
Taylor, Tom
Teller Commercial Company
Terwilliger, Nellie and Fred
Toomer, Marjorie Content
Missing Title
Vihlein, Jane
Missing Title
Walker, Maynard
War Department 
Watkins, Franklin
Watson, Forbes
Watson, Nan
Webb, Mrs. Vanderbilt (Aileen)
Weeks, Lynn and Jim
Wigglesworth, Anne Parker
Williams, Gil
Wilson, Betty Balliett
Wolslagel, Earl
Women's Garment Manufacturers Supply Association
Wyche, Mrs. Cyril H.
Missing Title
Yelin, Saul
Missing Title
Zorach, Marguerite
Includes correspondence regarding estate matters, Henry Varnum Poor exhibitions, and loans
Includes many photocopies
Writings by Henry Varnum Poor include manuscripts of his two published books, An Artist Sees Alaska and A Book of Pottery: From Mud to Immortality. There are four notebooks containing information about pottery, tile procedures, and glazes, etc., film scripts, two journals, notes, including those from his studies in London and Paris, lists, speeches, and drafts of articles including "Painting is Being Talked to Death," published in the first issue of Reality: A Journal of Artists' Opinions, April 1953.
Among the writings by others are poems, notes, and reminiscences, including those by M. R. ("Muktuk") Marston, Waldo Peirce, Bessie Brueuer Poor, Josephine Poor, and unidentified individuals. The unsigned "Outline for a Proposed Artists Corps," circa 1942, is most likely written by Olin Dows or George Biddle.
Photocopy
Notebooks may include notes on pottery, tile procedures, glazes, measurements, and lists of supplies or various projects.
Mimeographed sheet
Account of Henry Varnum Poor rescuing an eskimo
"A Tribute to My Mother-in-Law"
Poem, photocopy
"Outline for a Proposed Artists Corps"
Subject files are found on various topics and appear to have been established by Poor. The largest group is for the Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture and includes financial reports, by-laws, correspondence, miscellaneous administrative files, and minutes. Contents of the files are varied and may contain correspondence, printed material, and photographs.
Oversized material housed in OV 23
Artwork by Henry Varnum Poor consists of loose drawings, sketches, designs, watercolors, and prints, as well as 45 sketchbooks. Many are studies for paintings, murals, and pottery. Included is work done in France, 1918-1919, and produced in Alaska while a war correspondent in 1943. Also found are commissioned illustrations and illustrations drawn for his monograph A Book of Pottery: From Mud to Immortality. Other artists represented are Anne Poor and Ernest Watson.
Some of the unidentified figure studies, portraits, and heads of women are probably Bessie and Anne Poor. Illustrations include those produced for Ethan Frome and The Scarlet Letter, and some that may have been intended for A Book of Pottery. Drawings produced in 1943 while Poor was a war correspondent in Alaska may have served as visual notes or illustrations for An Artist Sees Alaska. Also found are a small number of watercolors and prints. Most prints show the aftermath of World War I in France, and a Christmas card sent by Henry Varnum and Marion Dorn Poor features a print.
Oversized material housed in Box 9, Folder 1
Oversized material housed in Box 9, Folder 2
Oversized material housed in Box 9, Folder 3
Oversized material housed in Box 9, Folder 4
Oversized material housed in Box 9, Folder 3 and OV 19
Oversized material housed in Box 9, Folder 5
Oversized material housed in Box 9, Folder 6
Oversized material in Box 10, Folders 8-9
Oversized materials housed in Box 9, Folders 7-9 and OV 20
Oversized material housed in Box 9, Folder 10
Oversized material housed in OV 21
Oversized material housed in Box 10, Folder 1
Oversized material housed in Box 10, Folder 2
Oversized material housed in Box 10, Folders 3-4
Oversized material housed in Box 10, Folder 5
Includes Bessie Breuer, Charles Duback, Jim Fickes, David Friedenthal, Stuard Frost, Ben Hecht, Helen Hayes, DeWitt Peters, Rollo Peters, Alfred Poor, Herbert Poor, Peter Poor, Ed Rowan, Concetta Scaravaglione, and John and Gwen Steinbeck Family. Oversized material housed in Box 10, Folder 6.
Oversized material housed in Box 10, Folder 7
Oversized material housed in Box 10, Folder 10
Oversized material housed in Box 10, Folder 11 and OV 22
France
Early pottery drawings and notes
Sketch of Wharton Esherick plate
Notes on pottery glazes
"Pottery/Sketches/Peter in Hat"
Pottery sketches and notes
Southwest Sicily and notes on art seen in Italy
"Pitigliano/Grotto di Castri"
Colorado Springs, and "Gedney and Dominick" (contains a few 19th century drawings)
Interior Department mural and statement regarding art
Penn State mural
The Scarlet Letter illustrations
Alaska
Studio sketch class and State College drawings
Journal entry dated Aug. 18, 1962
Early Truro and Florida
Notes, pottery sketches, and lists
Pottery sketches, notes, and biographical notes
Oversized material housed in Box 10, Folder 12
The other artists represented in this subseries are Anne Poor and Ernest Watson.
Drawings by: Anne Poor of Henry Varnum Poor's Hands for the Lincoln Figure in The Land Grant Frescoes, Pennsylvania State College; and by Ernest Watson, sketch of Crow House interior. Oversized material housed in Box 10, Folder 13.
Found are drawings and architectural prints documenting houses designed and built by Poor, including his own studio. Other projects include the homes of Jules Billig, Milton Caniff, MacDonald Deming, Burgess Meredith, Bessie B. Poor, Isobel Prado, John Houseman, and Elizabeth S. Sargent. Researchers should note that photographs of architectural projects may be found within the photographs series (Series 9).
Oversized material housed in OV 24-26
Family memorabilia consists of the autograph book belonging to Josie Graham Poor, a stored wheat account sheet from the Poor Elevator business, and two motion picture reels. Researchers should note that the script of the film Painting a True Fresco is among Poor's writings (Series 3).
Family history includes the Poor-Poore Family Reunion, a publication containing significant background information. Among the travel souvenirs are a few items that may have been saved by his mother from their 1911 trip to Europe together.
Also included are a copy of Jack London's The Call of the Wild illustrated by Poor, reproductions of illustrations for An Artist Sees Alaska and Ethan Frome, and two Associated American Artists greeting cards reproducing work by Poor.
Oversized material housed in Box 11, Folder 2
Oversized material housed in OV 27
Oversized material housed in Box 11, Folder 3
Oversized material housed in OV 29
Oversized material housed in Box 11, Folders 4-6
Oversized material housed in OV 28
Oversized material housed in Box 11, Folder 4
Oversized material housed in Box 11, Folder 5
Oversized material housed in Box 11, Folder 6
Photographs record exterior and interior views of Henry Varnum Poor's architectural work, artwork by Poor and others, people, places, and miscellaneous subjects. This series also contains negatives, slides, and color transparencies.
Among the photographs of architectural work are views of Poor at the building sites of the Jules Billig and Milton Caniff houses. Many views of Poor's own home, Crow House, show the original portion under construction as well as a later addition; also included are views of the grounds and outbuildings such as Poor's new studio, workroom, and garage.
Oversized material housed in Box 12, Folder 1
Oversized material housed in Box 12, Folder 2
Oversized material housed in Box 12, Folder 3
Oversized material housed in Box 12, Folder 4
Oversized material housed in Box 12, Folder 5
Oversized material housed in Box 12, Folder 7
Oversized material housed in Box 12, Folder 8
All 1973 photographs by Ed Hausner of living and dining rooms include Anne Poor. Oversized material housed in Box 12, Folder 9
Photographs of Poor's artwork include drawings and sketches, murals, paintings, pottery and ceramics. Also among the photographs of works of art are pieces by Willard W. Cummings, Wharton Esherick, unidentified artists, and pottery from the collections of the American Museum of Natural History and the Metropolitan Museum of Art (possibly research material for A Book of Pottery by Henry Varnum Poor).
Among the photographs of architectural work are views of Poor at the building sites of the Jules Billig and Milton Caniff houses. Many views of Crow House show the original portion under construction, as well as a later addition; also included are views of the grounds and outbuildings such as Poor's new studio, workroom, and garage. Some Crow House photographs are by Marjorie Content Toomer.
Oversized material housed in Box 13, Folder 3
Oversized material housed in Box 13, Folder 2
Oversized material housed in Box 13, Folder 1
Pictures of people include portraits and informal views of Henry Varnum Poor, Poor at work, and making a life mask. Among the views of Poor are several by photographer Marjorie Content Toomer, including one of the artist's hands holding brushes and a palette. Other photogaphs are of Poor with friends, clients, juries, students, various groups, and family members. Photographs of individuals include friends, immediate family, and various relatives.
Oversized material housed in Box 13, Folder 4
Oversized material housed in Box 13, Folder 5
Oversized material housed in Box 13, Folder 6
Terry Anderson
Mayfield
Martha Rhyter
Rosse children
Marjorie Content Tooner
Man
Children
There are many photographs of Alaska taken in 1943 when Poor was a war correspondent. Landscapes and aerial views of the territory, boats and boatbuilding, dogs, airplanes, buildings, and other subjects illustrate village life. Some illustrations for An Artist Sees Alaska are based on these photographs.
Photographs of places do not include houses designed and built by Henry Varnum Poor.
Oversized material housed in Box 13, Folder 8
Contact sheets
Oversized material housed in Box 13, Folder 8
Miscellaneous subjects include exhibition installations and photographs of Poor's notes on glazes. The Kentucky farm scenes may have been used as research material for a mural commissioned by the Louisville Courier-Journal.
Negatives, slides, and transparencies are of architectural work and artwork by Poor, people, places and miscellaneous subjects.
Letters from artist friends, including three letters and a postcard from David Burliuk; 17 from Philip Evergood about visiting Popper, teaching and painting; and one letter from Abraham Walkowitz; and a rough draft and a final copy of I PAINT PEOPLE AND THINGS, a lecture given by Evergood at Hamline University in St. Paul, Minnesota.
Family correspondence; personal and professional correspondence relating to Porter's career as a gallery owner, with Caresse Crosby, Eldzier Cortor, Worden Day, Edith Halpert, Adolph Gottlieb, Karl Knaths, Peggy Guggenheim, Mark Rothko, Willem de Kooning, and many others; diaries; notes; financial papers; clippings; publicity catalogs; and miscellany.
The Laurence M. Porter papers regarding his father Fairfield Porter measure 1.0 linear foot and date from circa 1955-2004. Included are biographical material consisting of estate papers for Fairfield Porter including a list of Fairfield's paintings and an appraisal, a copy of the 1953 film "A Day in the Life of a Cleaning Woman" by Rudy Burckhardt starring Anne and Fairfield Porter and others, and a 1993 recording of CBS Sunday relating to Fairfield Porter on CBS Sunday; correspondence including letters from Fairfield to Laurence and other family members, and letters from Laurence to curators, authors and dealers and others about Fairfield; writings consisting of a draft of "Elegy for my father" by Laurence Porter, 1978, and a poem from Fairfield to Laurence, undated; photographs of Fairfield Porter and his paintings; one sketchbook by Fairfield "notebook no.2", undated; and printed material regarding Fairfield Porter. A portion of the papers are in electronic format.
Post expresses his gratitude to Johnson for buying one of his paintings done in Litchfield Hills, Conn.
Potter's correspondence with Eugene Berman concerning the publication by Clarkson N. Potter, Inc. of THE GRAPHIC WORK OF EUGENE BERMAN (1971), including letters about the format, photographs, expenses and payment, and other matters. Also included are: correspondence with owners of Berman's work; with Russell Lynes regarding his forward to the book; press releases; a review of the book; notes; and Berman exhibition catalogs and announcements. (microfilm title: Eugene Berman)
Artists' files and research notes, arranged by artist and movement, notably files on Georges Braque and a Braque exhibition, 1954; notes on Braque and Paul Cezanne from a lecture by William Rubin; photographs of work by Juan Gris, and photographs of the Gallery of Modern Art Including the Huntington Hartford Collection; correspondence concerning Potter's job search, Huntington Hartford Gallery, and letters from Douglas Cooper, 1970-1983, with whom Potter worked on a catalogue raisonne of Juan Gris, and with a friend of Cooper after Cooper's death; and printed material including clippings relating to the Huntington Hartford Gallery, and an extensive postcard collection.
Photographs of works of art by American artists.
The scattered papers of painter Edith M. Prellwitz measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1896 to 1938. Found are two letters, photographs, and printed materials concerning Prellwitz's career.
Series includes two letters: one to Edwin's son, Samuel, from his uncle Samuel Babcock, wishing him a happy Christmas; and one from Elizabeth Dewing Kaup to Mrs. (Edith) Prellwitz offering condolences regarding Mr. (Henry) Prellwitz's death. Photographs include snapshots of Prellwitz with her children; family members, including possibly Henry Prellwitz; and works of art. Also found is a photo of the Prellwitz family crest annotated by Edith's son, Edwin, and photos of boats in a body of water and homes, possibly near the Prellwitz home in Peconic Bay, New York. Some photos may be studies for paintings and may include artist models. Newspaper clippings are about Prellwitz and her works of art.
Correspondence; scrapbooks; writings and notes; photographs and slides; art works; videotapes; sketches; awards and certificates; exhibition material; and printed material.
REEL 876: A 1974 portfolio containing 3 sketches and 19 photographs of "Sculpture in New Materials" (plastics), and an 8 page curriculum vitae and statement prepared by Prentiss for the Archives on the development of her art.
UNMICROFILMED: Correspondence; writings and notes; awards and certificates; clippings, bulletins, and newsletters; catalogs, announcements, and other exhibition material; and photographs and slides of exhibitions and of Prentiss's work; correspondence, clippings, a publicity file, notes, reports, photographs and miscellany relating to exhibitions of the Boston Visual Artists Union, 1974-1976; a scrapbook of photographs, clippings, catalogs, reports, letters, relating to Women Exhibiting in Boston, Inc., 1973-1975; and a scrapbook about an art workshop held for Boston Public School teachers, 1961-1962, containing photographs of people involved and art work displayed, and ideas for school art projects.
Scrapbooks, 1954-1974, 11 v. containing correspondence, exhibition notices, catalogs, guest books, clippings, press releases, curricula vita, other printed matter, sketches, notes about her work and impressions of her shows, diary Sept.-Nov. 1972 (notes of daily progress for a one-man show), stencils, and photographs of her friends and works; two videotapes, "Tina Prentiss Show," September 30, 1975, and "Ten Talents at Tufts," October 10, 1975; a script, probably for the "Tina Prentiss Show"; and a taperecording, Tufts University Radio Women's Program, October 28, 1975; eight "symbolic portraits" in oil, including portraits of Admiral Richard Byrd, Albert Schweitzer, and Bradford Washburn, among others; and a painting, "Symbolic Portrait of James Michael Curley." 1956.
One inscribed autograph book kept by Preston containing sketches by cartoonists of the early 20th century, including Clifford K. Berryman, Rube Goldberg, Boardman Robinson, and Art Young.
3 letters from Alfred Thompson Bricher (1 to his daughter Florence, 1 with sketch of St. Michael's Mount in England); newspaper clippings about Bricher and his career (including an obituary); magazine clippings of Bricher's wood engraved illustrations; exhibition catalogues of his works.
The Morris W. Primoff papers relating to Thomas Hart Benton measures 0.01 linear feet and date from 1950 to 1978. The papers primarily consist of correspondence between attorney Morris W. Primoff (1899-1986) and New York-based painter and muralist Thomas Hart Benton (1889-1975). Correspondence includes letters, 1950-1965, between Benton and Morris W. Primoff of Primoff & Primoff, Counselors at Law. Letters concern the "Lewis family" gift of Benton's painting "Island Farm" to Morris W. Primoff; a Benton exhibition at the Gerst Gallery in New York; tax laws concnerning unsold works of art in artists' estates; a proposed book on Benton by Crown Publishers, Inc.; and Benton's expedition up the Missouri River following the trail of Lewis and Clark. Also included are a letter from Benton's wife Rita to Polly and Murray (Morris) Primoff thanking them for attending Benton's exhibition opening in New Britain, 1954; and a letter from Polly Burroughs concerning a book on Benton, 1978. Printed material includes the catalog "Thomas Hart Benton: A Giant in American Art"(1962) and newspaper clippings.
The papers primarily consist of correspondence between attorney Morris W. Primoff (1899-1986) and New York-based painter and muralist Thomas Hart Benton (1889-1975). Correspondence includes letters, 1950-1965, between Benton and Morris W. Primoff of Primoff & Primoff, Counselors at Law. Letters concern the "Lewis family" gift of Benton's painting "Island Farm" to Morris W. Primoff; a Benton exhibition at the Gerst Gallery in New York; tax laws concnerning unsold works of art in artists' estates; a proposed book on Benton by Crown Publishers, Inc.; and Benton's expedition up the Missouri River following the trail of Lewis and Clark. Also included are a letter from Benton's wife Rita to Polly and Murray (Morris) Primoff thanking them for attending Benton's exhibition opening in New Britain, 1954; and a letter from Polly Burroughs concerning a book on Benton, 1978. Printed material includes the catalog "Thomas Hart Benton: A Giant in American Art"(1962) and newspaper clippings.
The Katherine Prince collection relating to James McNeill Whistler, dates from circa 1834-circa 1892, and 1980, and measures 0.2 linear feet. This small collection of letters, two diaries, mementos, and family history notes, provides scattered documentation of the long friendship between Katherine Prince, her sister Leslie, and Katherine's daughter, Susie Livermore Sutton, with their Lowell, Massachusetts neighbor, James McNeill Whistler.
The series includes a typescript of notes written by Robert Cypian Houpe on the Livermore family history, including an account of an occasion on which Houpe's grandmother, Susie Livermore Sutton, daughter of Katherine Prince, visited Whistler to dine with him even as baliffs have attached Whistler's property.
Prince family letters include seven letters from Leslie Prince to her sister Katherine (Kate), two of which were co-written by their brother Frederick, pertaining to life in Lowell, Massachusetts in the 1830s; one letter to Robert Prince from Elihu Beck; one letter to Robert Prince from Elinor J. Beck; a letter written probably to one of the Prince sisters from an unidentified person; and a photocopy of a page from an unidentified letter.
Two handwritten diaries of Katherine Prince were written in England and Europe in 1845 and 1846. The diaries frequently mention and describe visits with Whistler's sister, Deborah Whistler, and their travels and activities together.
Four items from Whistler include an 1878 telegraph to the Livermore family; a letter from Whistler to Susie Sutton, with Whistler's butterfly signature, inviting her to call on him in his studio; an invitation to Whistler's "10 O'Clock" lecture at Prince's Hall, Piccadilly; and an 1892 catalog, "Nocturnes, Marines and Chevalet Pieces" Goupil/6th Edition, inscribed to Sutton by Whistler.
The Eve Propp papers regarding artist Joseph Cornell date from 1966-1994 and measure 1 linear foot. This small collection documents the relationship between Eve Propp, a gallerist, and Joseph Cornell. The two maintained a friendship through frequent letters and visits. The papers consist of approximately sixty letters from Cornell to Propp from 1968-1972, letters from others, notes on Propp's visits to Cornell, printed material, and photographic material.
Approximately sixty letters or cards from Cornell to Eve Propp often incorporate collages, puzzles, and objects. One file contains a few objects that have become separated from the letters. Other letters here are from Cornell's sister, lawyers involved with the estate following Cornell's death, a handwriting expert, and museum curators.
Propp's notes document topics Cornell discussed during their visits, including his thoughts about the color blue, his mother's strictness, the anxiety he felt as a student at Andover, among other topics.
Printed material collected by Propp about Cornell includes a calendar from 1969, the year they were in most frequent contact; clippings from magazines and newspapers; and exhibition announcements and catalogs.
Several photographs of Cornell taken in 1969 during one of Propp's visits are included here with the original negatives, and several copy prints made in subsequent decades.
Selected records of the PWAP include the following series: Central Office (Washington, D.C.) Correspondence and Related Records, including progress reports, minutes of meetings, and finance records (reels DC1-3); Correspondence and Personal Files of Edward P. Rowan, Technical Director (reels DC3-4); Central Office Correspondence With Artists (reels DC5-7); Central Office Files and Publicity Materials, including correspondence of project director Edward Bruce (reel DC8); Newspaper Clippings (reels DC8-9); Correspondence and Related records of Cecil Jones, Business Director (reels DC9-12); Final Reports on Projects, Report Materials and Project Issuances (reel DC12); Regional Office Records (reels DC12-13); and selected Correspondence of the New York Regional Office (Region 2) With Artists concerning administrative details of employing artists (DC 112-115).
Correspondence, progress and other reports, minutes of meetings, official circulars and letters, personnel and financial records, press releases, and other records relating to the policies, organization, and activities of the Project. A small quantity of records concerns early meetings of the Advisory Committee to the Treasury on Fine Arts which were apparently made a part of this series when it was set up by the Project. Central office correspondence with artists is a separate series (reels DC5-7), described separately.
Correspondence with prominent artists concerning ways and means of employing unemployed artists; correspondence with artists in the regions, critical evaluations of art produced under the PWAP; copies of articles written by Rowan, and various administrative and reference materials. Rowan was the assistant technical director of the PWAP. He worked closely with Edward Bruce, the director of the PWAP.
Copies of letters sent to artists in all regions and letters received, concerning problems and individual projects of the artists. Some widely divergent comments on the existent art relief program are expressed in many of the letters.
Not listed alphabetically. Extracts from artists letters, boards of education, artists organizations, also regional chairmen and committees.
Letters, telegrams and memoranda received from and copies sent to the regional offices and others in the regions; interoffice memoranda; periodic and statistical reports; and minor fiscal records. Cecil Jones was the business director of the PWAP.
Newspaper clippings relating to the activities of the PWAP specifically at the regional level, November 1933-October 1934.
Miscellaneous central office files include: correspondence of Edward Bruce, primarily concerning certain art exhibits; lists of works of art, some showing their final disposition; and miscellaneous correspondence with regional office personnel and artists in the field. The file of publicity materials contains: photocopied press releases and bulletins issued by the Project; copies of magazine articles written by Project employees; and a variety of unsolicited comments and news concerning Project activities, including news clippings, editorials, magazine articles, and speeches.
A printed copy of the report of the Assistant of the Treasury to the Federal Relief Administrator for the period December 8, 1933 to June 30, 1934; a typewritten copy of a report covering the PWAP activities and liquidation for the period October 1, 1934 to June 22, 1935; narrative, statistical and other records used in preparation of the reports; reference material supplementing the information in the reports.
A selection of records from central files of the 16 regional offices (the bulk of this material has been disposed of), consists of correspondence, telegrams, and memoranda of an administrative character; minutes of meetings; a few records relating to personnel; charts and statistics; records relating to individual projects, including lists of finished works; and a variety of technical and other reference materials. Activities of committees and subcommittees in the regions are also documented insofar as any records of importance concerning them could be located.
Correspondence retained as an example of regional correspondence with artists includes letters dealing with administrative details important to employing artists, the initiation and execution of the individual art projects, and technical and artistic matters; special reports, reference material, and other matter is enclosed with the letters.
18 transcripts of the weekly radio program "The Artist Reviews Art," by Fernando Puma and Helen Waren, script no. 15-23, October 1, 1943 to February 18, 1944, broadcast on WEVD and WABF, New York.
Correspondence; genealogical information; a photo album; photographs and tintypes; an inventory notebook; contracts; clippings; and miscellaneous material.
REEL 2347: Selected papers, 1822-1967, from the Elbert H. Putnam and Henry W. Putnam Family archive at the Timken Art Gallery, San Diego, California, including correspondence of Anne R. Putnam and Amy Putnam; Irene Putnam's correspondence and poetry; a photo album, photographs and tintypes of the Putnam family; an inventory notebook of paintings and correspondence concerning the family art collection and library (mostly relating to Russian history and art); clippings about the family; and miscellany, including a few pencil drawings and cartoons, and personal documents.
REEL 2842: Papers, ca. 1867-1966, relating to the formation of the Fine Arts Gallery of San Diego (now the San Diego Museum of Art), including genealogical information on the Putnams; letters to Appleton S. Bridges, honorary president of the Fine Arts Society which managed the Gallery, regarding the purchase of 16 Pieter Veen paintings, 1916, and incorporation of the Society, 1925; correspondence between board members of the Society regarding the search for a Director of the Gallery and the selection of Reginald Poland; 2 letters from Poland, 1925; a typescript of a speech "The Putnam Sisters at Home" by Julia Gethman Andrews, 1966; contracts for the construction of the Gallery; a tintype; and photographs of Amy, Anne, Elbert, Henry and Irene Putnam. [The Fine Arts Gallery of San Diego is incorrectly identified as the Timken Art Gallery on the microfilm.]
Correspondence is primarily between Putnam and his family and friends, including one letter from Clyfford Still. Photographs are of Putnam, his family and friends (mostly from his high school years), and of miscellaneous subjects.
Writings include 3 journals in which Putnam recorded his dreams and his interpretations of them; an autobiography formed from his letters and essays; an undated and unfinished autobiography; essays and poetry on art and other subjects (many of them incomplete); a manuscript for Putnam's book Manhattan Manners with a note by Alfred Stieglitz; and a transcript of an unpublished manuscript entitled "Three Heroes I Have Known" which include comments about Mark Rothko, Milton Avery, and Abe Birnbaum.
Also found are several drawings, in ink and in pencil, undated; exhibition catalogs and announcements; programs for Putnam's graduations and other school events; clippings, mostly regarding Putnam's high school athletic activities; miscellaneous printed materials; and Putnam's William H. Lincoln medal, Brookline High School, 1918.
Letter to Mr. Marvin regarding a drawing plan Pyle was preparing, and to Ross Turner regarding an exhibition organized by the Colonial Dames.
The Pyramid Group scrapbook consists of one volume that dates from 1947 to 1954. The scrapbook contains brief biographical notes and photographs of works of art by Pyramid Group members, exhibition reviews, catalogs and announcements.
Biographical information, correspondence, photographs of sculpture, and clippings. Much of the correspondence is an exchange of letters with Frederick MacMonnies concerning their collaboration on "The Battle of Marne," a sculptural monument in Meaux, France.
Ten letters from Ilya Bolotowsky; nine photographs of Bolotowosky, eleven of his paintings, and two of Quinn's paintings.
The papers of painter and teacher Walter Quirt measure 3.1 linear feet and date from 1928-1976. Included are writings, correspondence, photographs, project files, interviews, drawings and printed material.
Motion picture produced by Nancy Raine; directed by Nancy Raine and Richard Leacock; cinemotography by Richard Leacock; edited by Marisa Silver. Presents Morgan at age 77, showing her at work in her studio, her paintings, an exhibition of her work, fishing and swimming, and discussing her life and painting.
Autobiographical information, photographs of works of art and others, a sketchbook, clippings, Raleigh's description of his 2 paintings in the Town Hall, Bourne, Mass.
The papers of California pop artist and teacher Mel Ramos measure 0.6 linear feet and date from 1959 to 1984. The collection documents Ramos's career as an artist through correspondence with Lawrence Alloway, Dwan Gallery, Roy Lichtenstein, David Stuart, and Tom Wesselman, among others; a few inventories, invoices, and loan agreements; documentation of his work with the San Francisco Art Institute; and exhibition announcements and catalogs. Writings include two manuscripts on Ramos and the Pop Art movement, a one-page interview of Ramos, and poetry by Robin Skelton. Of interest in the collection, are files containing photographs, photo-collages, and clippings used for paintings such as "Elephant Seal," "Virnaburger," and "Manet's Olympia."
The papers of artist Charles Ramsburg (1942- ) measure 0.8 linear feet and 6.04 GB, and date from 1959-2020. The collection documents Ramsburg's career and art practice through biographical material, correspondence, exhibition files, printed material, and photographic material. Some email correspondence, three video recordings and the bulk of the photographs are in digital form.
Biographical material includes a "talent test" completed by Ramsburg, an artist's statement, and photocopy of a cartoon. Also included is a promotional digital video recording for Carter Burden Network featuring Ramsburg at the Carter Burden Gallery and a profile video, part of an artist portrait series for Carter Burden Gallery by Anahita Amirshahi.
Correspondence includes letters and printed emails to and from friends, art dealers, and collectors. Also includes some email correspondence in digital form.
Exhibition files contain price lists, consignment agreements, correspondence, sales records, resumes, announcements, clippings, and one digital video recording documenting the exhibition at Chaos Gallery in Serbia. Dialogue in the video recording is in Serbian.
Includes born-digital file, see ER01
Printed material includes exhibition announcements and catalogs, clippings of reviews of Ramsburg's work, and four self-published books of artwork.
Photographic material consists of prints, slides, transparencies and digital images of Ramsburg's artwork, including his Icons of Nature and Pathing Sticks series.
Research material for an exhibition THE MARTHA JACKSON MEMORIAL COLLECTION held at the National Museum of American Art, June 21-September 15, 1985, and a catalog (Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985). Included are clippings and press releases, 1953-1975, and letters, 1979-1984, from artists and Jackson's colleagues and employees including Herb Aach, Garo Antreasian, Amy Baker, Dorothy Beskind, Dennis Bing, Norman Bluhm, Naomi Blum, Grace Borgegenicht, Mrs. Toni Borgzinner, Keith Boyle, Charles Brady, Adelyn Breeskin, James Brooks, Fritz Bultman, Lawrence Calcagno, Christo Capralos, Vardea Chryssa, Christopher Colt, Richard Diebenkorn, Jim Dine, Hisao Domoto, Seymour Drumlevitch, Frank Duncan, Claire Falkenstein, David Gilhooly, Ives Goucher, Clement Greenberg, Grace Hartigan, Gottfried Honegger, John Hultberg,
Harry Jackson, Paul Jenkins, Alfred Jenson, Lester Johnson, Alex Katz, Lillian Kiesler, Kenneth Koch, Lee Krasner, Elaine Kurtz, Bruce Lowney, Alexandra Luke, Ed McGowin, Carlos Merida, Sadamasa Motonaga,Louise Nevelson, Tom Parish, Jackson Pollock (Betty Parsons Gallery concerning Pollock),Israel Rosen, John Salt, Peter Spinelli, Julian Stanczak, Francisco Toledo, June Wayne, and Edward Weiss. Several of the correspondents wrote brief memoirs of their relationships with Jackson.
Correspondence, sketchbooks, slides, set designs and writings.
REEL 1829: A resume; 7 sketchbooks, with photographs of models and of finished paintings; sketches; set designs for James Clouser's SPACE/DANCE/THEATRE; correspondence and two essays by Randolph about Houston's Contemporary Art Museum; notebook pages with philosophical quotations and comments on art; and a clipping.
UNMICROFILMED: Eight slides of paintings.
Exhibition catalogs and announcements, two posters; and a photograph of Arshile Gorky, Rankine's brother-in-law, dancing at Rankine's wedding, 1945.
A letter from the Rattners to Helen Kroll Kramer thanking her for the "warm fullness of the evening you gave us at your home at Ein Hod."
Photo of Edith Halpert taken by Man Ray. The photo is inscribed by Halpert to her friend, museum director James W. Foster: "To Jim Whose radiant warmth is the greatest stimulant I have experienced the art world. With deep affection, Edith. P.S. The coat is reversible Man Ray missed the white side."
REEL 76: Letters to Roy Moyer of the American Federation of Arts, Edward Bruce to Henry Varnum Poor, and an open letter to artists from Bruce; biographical data on Read; a transcript of a lecture given by Read on the background of the early American landscape school; and lectures and reports based on Read's survey of art in federal buildings which was sponsored by the Treasury Section of Fine Arts.
UNMICROFILMED: A letter to Miss Beatrice Winzer of the Newark Museum inquiring as to whether she would like Read to present a lecture on WPA murals.
To Leonard Myers: May 23, 1872, concerning personal matters; Sept. 7, 1875, about the statue "The West," to be exhibited at the Centennial; Dec. 28, 1875, concerning storage for a statue; and Feb. 16, inviting Myers to a social event.
The scattered papers of abstract artist, collector, and museum director Hilla Rebay measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1921 to 1963. Found are photographs, printed materials concerning Rebay and the Guggenheim Foundation Museum of Non-Objective Painting, and a transcript from a court case involving taxes.
Photographs are of Rebay and the architectural model of the new Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum. Printed materials concern Rebay's exhibition career and the formation of the Guggenheim Foundation Museum of Non-Objective Painting. Included are exhibition announcements and catalogs, postcards, and publicity materials for the opening of the museum in 1939. Also found is a 1921 issue of Der Sturm, a modern art magazine from Berlin.
The Paul Allen Reed papers measure 1.5 linear feet and 0.774 GB and date from 1936 to 2008. The papers document Reed's career as a painter through correspondence with friends and colleagues; writings by Reed including lecture notes and teaching plans; professional files including binders with curriculum vitae and cataloged artwork, and sound, video, and born-digital recordings including interviews; printed material such as clippings, exhibition announcements, and catalogs; studies for paintings; and photographs of Reed and his artwork.
Correspondence consists of letters, primarily in the form of photocopies, from museums and galleries regarding the purchase and/or exhibition of Reed's artwork. Also found is correspondence between Reed and Claudine Humblet, mostly concerning research for Humblet's book, The New American Abstraction, 1950-1970.
Writings include Reed's teaching plans and notes, including for the Corcoran School of Art, as well as unpublished writing about Reed by others.
Professional material includes two binders cataloging Reed's artwork and some biographical material. Audiovisual material includes a 1969 sound recording of Reed and Roger Selby responding to a letter by Ellen Gross; a sound recording of a 1985 interview of Reed conducted by Ed Zerne; a video recording showing Reed's artwork in reverse chronological order from 1992 to 1936; and a digital video recording with images of art and Reed discussing his career.
Binder consists of printed copies of artwork, and curriculum vitae.
A reverse chronology of Reed's works starting from 1992 and going back to 1952.
Printed material includes exhibition catalogs, photocopies of clippings, and a set of playing cards featuring a work of art by Reed, published by the Women's Committee of the Wadsworth Athenaeum.
Works of art consist of approximately 128 original studies for Reed's works in various media.
Series consists of photographs of Reed and photographs, slides, and digital photos of his works of art. Digital photos may be copies of photographs that were printed out for Binder #1 and Binder #2 found in Series 3: Professional Activity Files.
Notes kept by Reep while assigned to the Italian Front during World War II, November 6, 1944 - May 2, 1945; and a letter from Reep to E. Maurice Bloch, September 25, 1962.
Correspondence regarding the preparation of Reese's book "American Prize Prints of the 20th Century" (1949), mainly soliciting biographical information and information about specific art works. Some of the artists responded with detailed information.
Correspondents include Ivan Albright, Grace Albee, James Allen, Niels Yde Anderson, Frank H. Anderson, Grant Arnold, William Auerbach-Levy, Peggy Bacon, Maxil Ballinger, Albert W. Barker, Will Barnet, Lawrence Barrett, T. Bengty, Frank W. Benson, Thomas H. Benton, Bernece Berkman-Hunter, Ray Bethers, Gross Bettelheim, George Biddle, Richard E. Bishop, Isabel Bishop, Lucile Blanch, Julius Bloch, Aaron Bohrod, Mortimer Borne, Cornelis Botke, Fiske Boyd, Helen K. Boyer, Theodore Brenson, Syd Browne, Conrad Buff, Cecil Buller, Paul Cadmus, Harrison Cady, Letterio Calapai, Samuel Chamberlain, Jean Charlot, Asa Cheffety, Philip Cheney, Howard Cook, John E. Costigan,Alan Crane, Stephen Csoka, Lewis Daniel, E. Hubert Deines, John de Martelly, Inez Demonet, Frederick Detwiller, Caroline Durieux, Philip Evergood, Fritz Eichenberg, Ralph Fabri, R. Vale Faro, Ernest Fiene, Issac Freiedlander, Sue Fuller, Michael Gallagher, Sears Gallagher, Gerald Geerlings, Todros Geller, Harold Geyer, Douglas Gorsline, Gordon Grant, Marion Greenwood, William Gropper,
Elias M. Grossman, Robert Gwathmey, Harold M. Hahn, Arthur W. Hall, Thomas B. Handforth, Clement Haupers, Stanley Hayter, Louis Hechenbleikner, Albert Heckman, Arthur W. Heintzelman, Helen Heller, Philip Hicken, Eugene Higgins, Polly Hill, Joseph Hirsch, Morris Hobbs, Irwin Hofmann, Alexandre Hogue, Edward Hopper, Ian Hugo, Victoria Huntley, Peter Hurd, Alfred Hutty, Edgar Imler, Max Jaediker, Hans Jelinek, Mervin Jules, Philip Kappel, Leon Karp, Leo Katz, Norman Kent, Rockwell Kent, Gene Kloss, Benjamin Kopman, Marguerite Kumm, Yasuo Kuniyoshi, Lawrence Kupferman, Richard Lahey, George Laisner, Paul Landacre, Bertha Landers, Edward Landon, J. J. Lankes, Mauricio Lansansky, Dorothy Lathrop, Robert Lawson, Claire Leighton, Elizabeth Lentz, Allen Lewis, Martin Lewis, William Libby, Ella Lillie, Russell Limbach, Lino Lipinsky, Charles Locke, Helen Loggie, Margaret Lowengrund, Louis Lozowick, Luigi Lucioni, Guy Maccoy, Warren Mack, Clara Mairs, Peppino Mangravite,
Boris Margo, Jack Markow, Reginald Marsh, James D. Marshall, Fletcher Martin, Virginia McCouch, Blanche McVeigh, J. Jay McVicker, Roderick Mead, Leo Meissner, George Mess, William Meyerowitz, Helen Miller, Kenneth Miller, Ira Moskowitz, Alice Murphy, M. Lois Murphy, Reginald Neal,
Jackson Nesbitt, Edith Newton, Robert Nisbet, NURA (Nura Woodson Ulreich), Kevin B. O'Callahan, Roselle Oak, Abbo Ostrowsky, Betty Parish, Max Pollak, Leon Pescheret, Martin Peterson, Geno Pettit, Carl Pickhardt, A. Ross Pittman, Henry C. Pitz, Leonard Pyttak, Saul Raskin, Doel Reed,Grant Reynard, Luigi Rist, Fermin Rocker, Louis Rosenberg, Doris Rosenthal, Andree Ruellan, Chauncey Ryder, Le Roy Sauer, Karl Schrag, Georges Schreiber, Carl Schultheiss, William Sharp, Effim Sherman, Harry Shoulberg, John Sloan, Yngve Soderberg, William Soles, Raphael Soyer, Coreen Spellman, Benton Spruance, Harry Sternberg, Charles Surendorf, James Swann, Maltby Sykes, Agnes Tait, Prentiss Taylor, Sam Thal, Byron Thomas, Walter Tittle, Dorothy Van Loan, Alfeo Verrecchia, Donald Vogel, Robert von Neumann, Lynd Ward, Reynold Weidenaar, Levon West, Harry Wickey, John Wilson, Sol Wilson, R. W. Woiceske, and Richard Zoellner.
Biographical information; correspondence; a diary, 1975-1976, and teaching files kept while at American Farm School, Thessalonica, Greece; manuscripts of articles; photographs of art work and personal photographs; sketches and drawings; 3 scrapbooks containing printed material, photographs, memorabilia, and letters; and exhibition catalogs and announcements, clippings and printed miscellany.
Biographical material, correspondence, a poem by Reichman, printed material, and photographs of Reichman with friends, family, and his works of art. Correspondents include Max Weber, Clyfford Still, Andrew Dasburg, Mark Tobey, Louise Nevelson, Dan Shapiro, and others.
The papers of New York painter Robert Reid measure 0.9 linear feet and date from circa 1880-circa 1930. The collection provides scattered documentation of Reid's career and family history through a certificate, letters, an essay of family recollections, scrapbooks containing letters, writings, printed material and family photographs, printed material about Reid, and photographs of Reid, his studio, travels, and works of art.
Letters are primarily from Robert Reid to his sister Sara Bigelow Reid and document a single year in Reid's life (1887) when he moved to Paris and traveled to Italy, serving as a diary of his activities through October of that year. Writings consist of an essay and journal entries entitled "Really Random Recollections of Charles D. Reid for Robert N. Reid" written by Robert Reid's brother Charles between 1918 and 1920. Scrapbooks 1 and 2 were compiled by Charles D. Reid and document Reid family history. Scrapbook 3 consists primarily of correspondence between Charles D. Reid and various schools concerning his interest in vocational education and a 1913 paper he wrote on that subject. Scrapbook 4 has had most entries removed and is inscribed by Charles D. Reid's father "Jared Reid Jr., Hartford Ct., Jan. 1880." Charles D. Reid presumably removed the entries to place in Scrapbooks 1-3.
Photographs of Reid include a group of men (circa 1880s) with Reid in the back row, of Reid working on a mural, and a 1927 portrait of Reid. Additional photographs of Reid are found in the scrapbooks. Also found is a copy print of Reid's studio, photographs of Europe, photographs of works of art by Reid, and a photograph of the stage and crowd at an unidentified event.
There is one certificate is for the 1897 Clarke Prize presented to Robert Reid by the National Academy of Design for his painting Moonrise.
Letters are primarily from Robert Reid to his sister Sara Bigelow Reid and document a single year in Reid's life (1887) when he moved to Paris and traveled to Italy The letters serve as a diary of his activities through October of that year, and focus in particular on visits to Venice, and his preparations for and reactions to acceptance of his artwork by the Paris Salon, which he expresses in letters to his sister and in a letter to his Uncle, Alexander Napier. Additionally, the letters document his program of study in Paris, and his summer work in Étaples, France. Also found are three letters from Reid's cousin, Clara Field, who accompanied Reid to Naples and wrote to Sara Reid about their travels. In one 1930 letter from Whitney Warren to Sara Reid, Warren thanks her for sending her brother's sketchbook and letters to him.
Writings consist of an essay and journal entries entitled "Really Random Recollections of Charles D. Reid for Robert N. Reid" written by Robert Reid's brother Charles for his son Robert Newell Reid between 1918 and 1920. The writings relate family history and include journal entries relating to the end of the First World War through to October 1920.
Printed material about Reid includes several newspaper and journal articles, an announcement for Reid's figure painting class at Broadmoor Art Academy, and a Saturday Evening Post article in which an unidentified author shares personal recollections of Robert Reid. Other printed material includes an edition of the Harvard Lampoon.
Scrapbooks are dated by the estimated date of compilation but contain items that pre-date the folder dates. Scrapbooks 1 and 2 were compiled by Charles D. Reid for Robert Newell Reid and document Reid family history. They include family letters, photographs and news clippings, including several photographs of Robert Reid, three letters which the artist wrote to Robert N. Reid, a 1909 Reid exhibition announcement and a 1916 Reid exhibition catalog, as well as clippings about some of Reid's exhibitions and mural projects. The scrapbooks also include copies of a 1916 paper and related materials that Charles D. Reid wrote on "Early Transportation Conditions in New England." Scrapbook 3 consists primarily of correspondence between Charles D. Reid and various schools concerning his interest in vocational education and a 1913 paper he wrote on that subject. Scrapbook 4 has had most entries removed and is inscribed by Charles D. Reid's father "Jared Reid Jr., Hartford Ct., Jan. 1880." Charles D. Reid presumably removed the entries to place in Scrapbooks 1-3.
Photographs of Reid include a group of men (circa 1880s) with Reid in the back row; four photographs of Reid working on a mural, probably in the 1890s; and a 1927 portrait of Reid. Additional photographs of Reid can be found in the scrapbooks. Also found is a copy print of Reid's studio, photographs of Europe including Antwerp and Brussells in 1885 and Pas-de-Calais in 1888, photographs of works of art by Reid, and a photograph of the stage and crowd at an unidentified event.
Oversized material housed in OV 1
Oversized material housed in OV 2
Oversized material housed in OV 3
The papers of Ad Reinhardt measure 3.9 linear feet and date from 1927 to 1968. The collection documents Reinhardt's career as an abstract painter, cartoonist, and writer through biographical material, correspondence, writings, printed material, scrapbooks, and artwork.
Biographical material includes personal and professional records, such as passports and membership cards as well as an artist's chronology, and material documenting Reinhardt's time at Brooklyn College and his work for the WPA. Correspondence is of a general nature, including letters from art galleries, museums, and art dealers about exhibitions and artwork, colleges and universities concerning lectures and workshops, and letters from friends, art critics, and fellow artists, including Lucy Lippard, Abe Ajay, and George Rickey. Also found are letters from magazines and various art and social organizations. Writings and notes include calendars, and a small amount of notes and draft writings by Reinhardt. Printed material comprises the largest series in the collection and contains exhibition materials, including invitations and catalogs, and a large number of magazine and news clippings, primarily about Reinhardt's career and modern art, but also covering other topics of interest to him, such as Asian art. Also found in this series are clippings of his published cartoons and artwork. Scrapbooks contain additional printed material documenting his high school and college days, as well as his career. as an artist. Also found within the papers is a small amount of artwork by Reinhardt, primarily small sketches.
Biographical material documents Reinhardt's personal life, as well as his career and his participation in the art community. This series contains several drafts of an artist's chronology written by Reinhardt that places his life and career in the context of the larger modern art movement and illuminates many important moments in his life. Also included are numerous identification documents, such as his passports, membership cards to various art, political, and social organizations, and a fellowship application form containing an artist statement and other biographical information. Also found are materials documenting Reinhardt's service in the military, his work for the WPA, and his professorship at Brooklyn College. This series contains Reinhardt's high school yearbook, business cards and event ephemera collected by him, his address book and lists, as well as exhibition labels from exhibits at Betty Parsons Gallery and the Jewish Museum.
This series contains correspondence documenting Reinhardt's career as an artist and art professor, with the bulk of the material dating from 1946 to 1966. Most of the letters are incoming, and there are only a few draft copies of outgoing letters written by Reinhardt. Found in this series are several letters from artists, including Abe Ajay, cartoonist Dave Crockett Johnson, Helen Frankenthaler, George Rickey, and May Wilson, as well as letters from art critics and writers, including Lucy Lippard, and Ned O'Gorman. Reinhardt also received a large number of letters from art galleries and art dealers, including Betty Parsons Gallery, Iris Clert, Dwan Gallery, and Jock Truman, and art museums, including the Museum of Modern Art, Jewish Museum, and the Whitney Museum of American Art, regarding the exhibition, loan, or sale of his artwork. Numerous letters in this series concern his participation as a guest lecturer, visiting artist, or symposium participant at colleges and universities throughout the country, as well as his professorship at Brooklyn College.
Reinhardt was a member of many art, political, and social organizations and his involvement is documented here in letters from groups such as the Bertrand Russell Peace Foundation, and the Foundation for the Arts, Religion, and Culture. Also included are letters from magazines and other publications to which he contributed articles and artwork, including PM newspaper and Artforum. There is also a large amount of fan mail sent to PM and to Reinhardt in praise of his series of drawings of the history of modern art for that newspaper. Miscellaneous folders include letters of the same type mentioned above which only consist of one or two letters from a correspondent. Notable correspondents within the miscellaneous folders include Josef Albers, John Ashbery, John Cage, Columbia Pictures Corporation, Mathias Goeritz, Peggy Guggenheim, Jasper Johns, Donald Judd, Ray Johnson, Ellsworth Kelly, Robert Kennedy, Robert Motherwell, Claes Oldenburg, Barbara Rose, Meyer Schapiro, and Russel Wright.
Scattered writings include annotated calendars compiled by Reinhardt, drafts of published writings, such as the essay "Who is Responsible for Ugliness," drafts of letters, and other notes and lists on topics including modern art, aesthetics, and his career as an artist. Also found are lists of Chinese words and phrases written by Reinhardt during his study of Chinese art, a small number of photocopies from microfilm of other writings on art, and select pages from Reinhardt's notebooks. The only item in this series that wasn't written by Reinhardt is a progress report submitted to Reinhardt by a student in one of his classes.
Researchers should note that many of Reinhardt's notebooks and other extensive writings were loaned for microfilming and returned to the donor and are only available on reels N69-99 and N69-103. These writings are not listed in this finding aid.
This series contains published material that Reinhardt collected to document his career as an artist and his research on various topics. Included are numerous newspaper and magazine clippings of articles about his artwork and modern art in general, including articles written by Reinhardt. Also found are clippings that Reinhardt collected on other topics such as Asian art, architecture, Christian art, and aesthetics, and book reviews on many of these topics. Many of these clippings are annotated by Reinhardt with handwritten comments and underlined segments. Also in this series are announcements, invitations, catalogs, and posters for exhibitions of Reinhardt's art and the artwork of others, as well as other event announcements, calendars, and press releases for lectures, workshops, and benefits. Other items found here are brochures, conference programs, journals and newsletters from organizations, publications from his time as a student, and examples of his published artwork, including covers of Listen magazine and clippings of his numerous published cartoons.
Conserved item housed in OV 6
Conserved items from Box 2, Folder 44 and Box 4, Folder 8
Scrapbooks compiled by Reinhardt document his high school and college days, as well as his early career as a professional artist. Included in his scrapbook from Newtown High school and his scrapbook from his time at Columbia University are clippings of his published comic strips, covers of magazines and other school publications that he designed, as well as clippings of articles about his role in school events and awards that he won. Also found here are loose scrapbook pages spanning twenty years of his career as an artist which contain newspaper and magazine articles about Reinhardt, published cartoons, pages from exhibition catalogs, and reproductions of his artwork.
This series contains artwork by Reinhardt including homemade Christmas cards, drawings of international architectural styles, primarily churches and temples, a sketch of a leaflet for an artist strike, and various other small sketches.
The Renaissance Guild Sculptor Documentary Project's video documentary of eight Berkshire sculptors along with supporting material pertaining to the artists. Sculptors include Andrew DeVries, Otello Guarducci, Frederick Hund, Alexander Stoller, John Stritch, Gregory Stone, Elbert Weinberg, and Carolyn Wirth.
The documentary was edited from individual interviews conducted between February and May 1995. Each was directed by Amanda McCormick. The interviewer for all but the Wirth and Stoller segments is Hillary Dyer; Maia Cannon interviewed Wirth, and William and Lucy Jackson interviewed Brier Stoller, Alexander Stoller's widow. The interviewee pertaining to Weinberg is Joel Karp, trustee of the Weinberg Foundation.
Biographical sketches and resumes; correspondence about his sculpture and medal commissions; condolence letters; awards, lists of his commissions, and a notebook with photos of sculpture and sales information; contracts, invoices, purchase orders, and receipts for his commissions; sketchbooks, sketches, and blue prints; photos of his work; exhibition catalogs, and printed miscellany.
The papers of San Francisco jeweler, painter, and metal-worker Merry Renk measure 0.9 linear feet and date from 1952 to 2000. The collection comprises business records that include sales invoices, inventories, exhibition price lists, and correspondence. Correspondents include Greta Daniel, Mrs. Vanderbilt Webb, Conrad Brown, Rose Slivka, Paul Soldner, Paul J. Smith, Alice W. Nichols, Roger Armstrong, and Francis S. Merritt. Also found is other material related to Renk's business activities; printed materials including clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs; a few sketches of utensils; writings including an unpublished typescript with illustrations and a draft of Renk's biographical statement; and a video recording containing the documentary "Merry Renk: Jeweler" by Alan Leveton.
Series comprises business records that include sales invoices, inventories, exhibition price lists, and correspondence with Greta Daniel, Mrs. Vanderbilt Webb, Conrad Brown, Rose Slivka, Paul Soldner, Paul J. Smith, Alice W. Nichols, Roger Armstrong, and Francis S. Merritt. Also found is other material related to Renk's business activities; printed materials including clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and miscellaneous items; a few sketches of utensils; writings including an unpublished typescript with illustrations titled "Memories for My Children's Children's Children's Children's Children's Children" and a draft of Renk's biographical statement; and a video recording containing the documentary "Merry Renk: Jeweler" by Alan Leveton.
Included are clippings from the magazines Craft Horizons, 
American Craft, 
Ceramic Age, and other craft publications.
Folder contains a program for The Arts Commission of San Francisco award ceremony, a press release by the Smithsonian Institution, and a travel schedule for the exhibition Messengers of Modernism: American Studio Jewelry, 1940-1960.
Folder contains the book Pay Dirt!: San Francisco, The Romance of a Great City.
Letters from James Renwick to Edward Renwick and Henry B. Renwick; letters from Emily Dilworth Hicks Renwick to Henry B. Renwick; insurance and financial papers, travel and personal documents, and a passport photo of Henry Brevoort Renwick; clippings; correspondence, financial, and legal documents of Edward Renwick including 2 appraisals of "Brooklawn," his house in Short Hills, N.J.
Correspondence, photographs, sketchbooks, catalogues and gallery announcements regarding Don Resnick. Included are letters from Ernst Benkert to Resnick, discussing his work, fellow artists, and the art scene. Other correspondents include Richard Klett, and Dutch artists Kees Bantzinger, Rudi Bierman, and Paula Nieuwenhuis-Thies. Nineteen sketchbooks (1956-1996) depict landscape and figure studies in pastel, pen and ink, pencil, and charcoal; also found are several portrait studies of Robert Moses by the artist.
A letter to Detroit, Michigan painter and gallery ownder Isadore Ressler from Rachel Heath, secretary at the Fine Arts Gallery, City of San Diego, to express appreciation "for what you have done for us here."; and a photograph of the interior of the Ressler Art Gallery identified by a stamp on the verso: Ressler Art Gallery, 1529 Washington Blvd., Detroit, Mich.
The papers of painter Katharine Rhoades measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1940 to circa 1950. Found are thirty-three photographs of Rhoades's paintings and a letter from Lucy Madeira Wing.
A letter from Lucy Madeira Wing is in response to Rhoades' offer to donate a painting to the Madeira School. Thirty-three black and white photographs of paintings by Rhoades were taken by Peter A. Juley & Son, New York, some of which are annotated with provenance and color descriptions.
Autobiographical essays; an obituary; awards; letters from the Carnegie Institute, the Society of Illustrators, the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, The Cleveland Museum of Art, Milch Galleries, Grand Central Art Galleries, and others; correspondence with Marvin J. Gross, Don Kingman, Karal Ann Marling, Ernest W. Watson, and others; writings by Riba including an essay on Magic Realism and a draft of a book "Anatomy for the Artist"; sketches; photographs and printed material concerning his commissioned murals for the Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (1937), the Cleveland Automobile Club (1947), the Warner and Swasey Company in Cleveland (1953), Statler Hotels, Cleveland, and others; papers concerning the Paul Riba Memorial Scholarship Fund at the Cleveland Institute of Art; photographs of Riba and his paintings; exhibition catalogs and announcements; tearsheets of Riba's illustrations; andnewspaper and magazine clippings.
Priced list of paintings for sale by Hugh A. Rice of Stockton, California.
The papers of art historian E. P. Richardson measure 28.7 linear feet and date from 1814-1996, with the bulk of the materials dating from 1921-1996. Within the papers are scattered biographical materials; acquisition files for Richardson's personal art collection; professional and personal correspondence with colleagues, art historians and critics, artists, museums, galleries, and dealers; numerous writings, including manuscripts and research files for his published books, articles, and lectures; general research notebooks and files compiled by Richardson on a wide variety of art-related topics and artists; professional and committee files; as well as a smaller amount of Constance C. Richardson's papers.
Biographical materials include certificates, awards, and honorary degrees, membership information, personal and family photographs, a few sketches, and a transcript of an oral history Interview with E.P. Richardson conducted by the National Endowment for the Humanities in 1982.
There are acquisitions files for the Richardsons' personal art collection that invoices, photographs, correspondence with galleries and collectors, appraisals, price lists, and artwork examination forms.
Correspondence is with colleagues, art dealers, collectors, museums and museum curators, foreign scholars, organizations, galleries, artists, art historians and critics, publishers, editors, librarians, friends, and family. Topics regard purchasing art for various collections, consultations about art and collecting including authentications and attributions, publishing, general art history, lectures, and personal matters, among other topics. There is correspondence with the Archives of American Art, Castano Galleries, Lawrence Fleischman, James Thomas Flexner, Alfred V. Frankenstein, George Croce, Walter Heil, Earl Krentzin, Wilmarth Lewis, Russel Lynes, John Francis McDermott, Philadelphia Museum of Art, J. Hall Pleasants, Anna Rutledge, Charles Sellers, Smithsonian Institution, Regina Soria, Victor Spark, William Stevens, Robert Vose, William Woolfenden, and many others. Scattered correspondence with artists is with Isabel Bishop, Louis Bouche, William Bostick, Eve Garrison, Edward Hopper, Irene Jungwirth, Yasuo Kuniyoshi, Hughie Lee-Smith, Reginald Marsh, Gerald Mast, Georgia O'Keeffe, Charles Sheeler, Walt Speck, and John Wedda, among many others. The greatest extent of correspondence is with Andrew Wyeth, Harold Cohn, and Frederick Simper. There is also personal correspondence with family and friends, and between E.P. and Constance Richardson.
E.P. Richardson's prominence as an art historian, writer, and expert on collecting is well documented through his prolific writings. Materials include drafts, notes, typescripts, and outlines for articles, exhibition catalog essays, and lectures. Also found are research files and publishing documentation for Richardson's books, including Washington Allston: A Study of the Romantic Artist in America (1948), Painting in America (1956), Charles Willson Peale and his World (1983), and American Romantic Painting (1944). There are also miscellaneous notes and four diaries. Two of the diaries comment on the social and cultural life of Detroit; the authenticity of paintings; Richardson's reflections on contemporary American painting, thoughts about museums, dealers, artists, and art historians (especially Wilhelm R. Valentiner); and travel.
Notebooks compiled by Richardson on a wide variety art-related topics cover nearly six decades. There are also numerous research files organized Richardson about individual artists and art history. And, the art collector files contain reference materials about art collectors and their collections including Lamont du Pont Copeland, Michael W. Freeman, Nelson Rockefeller, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Allen, and the Marquis de Somerlous. There are three index card file boxes containing bibliographic data on published books and articles.
Professional and committee files document Richardson's professional and consulting work for the Art Quarterly, Detroit Institute of Arts, National Collection of Fine Arts, the National Portrait Gallery, the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, the John D. Rockefeller III collection, Winterthur Museum, the White House, and the Historical Society of Pennsylvania.
Constance C. Richardson's papers include business and professional correspondence with various institutions, most extensively with the Macbeth Gallery. In addition, there is a smaller amount of personal correspondence, photographs and slides of her artworks, printed materials, two illustrated notebooks on her work, and miscellaneous notes. Also included is Constance's artist palette.
Biographical materials include certificates, awards, and honorary degrees, membership information, address books, personal and family photographs, family business documents such as stock certificates and other financial records, a small volume of newspaper clippings, a few sketches, and a file on travel. Of particular note is a transcript of an oral history Interview with E.P. Richardson conducted by the National Endowment for the Humanities in 1982.
Oversize items housed in Box 30, Folder 1.
Oversize items from Box 1, Folder 12.
Acquisition files for the Richardsons' personal art collection include invoices and paid checks, photographs of artworks, correspondence between the Richardsons and galleries and collectors, appraisals, price lists, and artwork examination forms.
Correspondence is with art dealers, collectors, museum curators, museums, artists, art critics, art historians, publishers, editors, librarians, foreign scholars, organizations, friends, and family. Topics regard purchasing art for various collections, consultations about art and collecting including authentications and attributions, publishing, general art history, lectures, and personal matters, among other topics.
General correspondence is with colleagues, professional acquaintances, art critics and historians, galleries and dealers, museums, and other organizations regarding purchasing art for collections, authentications and attributions, publishing, news about friends and acquaintances, and general consultations. There is correspondence with Wayne Andrews, Archives of American Art, Castano Galleries, Lawrence Fleischman, James Thomas Flexner, Alfred V. Frankenstein, George Croce, Walter Heil, Earl Krentzin, Wilmarth Lewis, Russel Lynes, John Francis McDermott, Philadelphia Museum of Art, J. Hall Pleasants, Anna Rutledge, Charles Sellers, Smithsonian Institution, Regina Soria, Victor Spark, William Stevens, Robert Vose, William Woolfenden, and many others.
Generally scattered correspondence is with various artists concerning their artwork and exhibitions, interested collectors, advice, return of paintings, fellowships, and other topics. Most files contain only one or two letters. Among the numerous correspondents are Isabel Bishop, Louis Bouche, William Bostick, Eve Garrison, Edward Hopper, Irene Jungwirth, Yasuo Kuniyoshi, Hughie Lee-Smith, Reginald Marsh, Gerald Mast, Georgia O'Keeffe, Charles Sheeler, Walt Speck, and John Wedda. The greatest extent of correspondence is with Andrew Wyeth, Harold Cohn, and Frederick Simper. There is also one letter from Winston Churchill about a traveling Smithsonian exhibition of his paintings in Detroit.
Correspondents include: Ivan Albright, Clarence Carter, Harry Bertoia, Isabel Bishop, Aaron Bohrod, William Bostick, Louis Bouche, Evalyn Brackett, Robert Broner, Charles Burchfield, James Calder, Frank Cassara, Ada G. Chaffee, Winston Churchill, and John Cornish.
Correspondents include: Lindsey Decker, Juliette de Lavage, Hugo de Soto, Mojmir Frinta, Eve Garrison, Sid Gotcliffee, and Agnes Gough.
Correspondents include: Robert Herzberg, Theo Hios, Edward Hopper, Zubel Kachadoorian, Kelly, and Yasuo Kuniyoshi.
Correspondents include: Elemer A. Lakatos, Matthew Lasinski, Carlos Lopez, Reginald Marsh, Gerald Mast, Walter Midener, Sam Nitro, and Georgia O'Keeffe.
Correspondents include: Hobson Pittman, Ogden Pleissner, Arthur Price, Renee Radell, Ruth Reeves, Rossi Reynolds, Ben Rowland, Carl Ruggles, Alfred russell, Walter Sanford, Karl Schmidt-Rottluff, Henry Schnakenberg, Charles Sheeler, Doris Ann Smith, Walt Speck and S.E. Streeter.
Correspondents include: Donald S. Thrall, George Van Saake, John A. Wedda, Richard Wilt, and Eva Worcester.
Includes correspondence with foreign acquaintances and experts on art and art history including Ludwig Baldass, Paul Coremans, Leo van Puyveld, Martin Davies, Therese Bertin-Mourot, Fritz Heinemann, Luigi Coletti, A.B. deVries, and John Steegman.
Correspondents include: Dr. Eckhart Knab, Fritz Novotny, Otto Benesch, and Dr. Karl M. Swoboda
Correspondents include: F.J. deWaele, Jean Squilbeck, Jacqueline Folie, A. Janssens de Bisthoven, Paul Coremans, F. Baudouin, Paul Fierens, Dr. J.L. Broeckx, Korneel Goossens, J. Gilissen, and G. Theunis.
Correspondents include: R.B. Beckett, Peter Bird, L. Burchard, Trenchard Cox, Sir Kenneth McKenzie Clark, C. C. Cunningham, R.H. Dolley, Dennis L.A. Farr, Ralph Fastnedge, Dr. F.M. Godfrey, Geoffrey Grigson, Francis W. Hawcroft, H.D.M. Grier, G. Bernard Hughes, Edward Hutton, Denys Sutton, H.B. Trevor-Cox, E.I. Musgrave, W.G. Constable, R.H. Wilenski, R. Wittkower, Mary Woodall, and Harold Wright.
Correspondents include: I. Pougheol, Madelaine Hours, Renan de LaGodelinais, Marcel Aubert, J.K. van der Haagen, Jacque Dupont, Edouard Michel, Francois Boucher, M.A. Boinet, and Mlle. Chabrier.
Correspondents include: Dr. Konrad Kaiser, Dr. Ernst Zinner, Walter Kuhn, Ilse R. Manke, Dr. O. Bock von Wulfingen, Charles Ruegg, Dr. Theodor Muller, Katherine von Kallevitz, Dr. A. Hoff, and Dr. Wolfgang Lots.
Correspondents include: Dr. Umbro Apollonio, Edoardo Arslan, Dr. Wart Arslan, Dr. Giacomo Bargellesi, Dr. Ugo Baroncelli, Dino Del Bo, Ferdinando Bologna, Stefano Bottari, Giuliano Briganti, Dr. Fiammetta Gamba, Dr. Nolfo di Carpegna, Dr. Angela Ottino Della Chiesa, Dr. Oreste Ferrari, Lelia Fraccaro, Luciano Gallina, Benno Geiger, Carla Guglielmi, Dr. W. Kronig, Dr. Caterina Marcenaro, Giovanni Mariacher, Paola Michelini, Lino Moretti, Dr. Onello Onelli, Terisio Pignatti, Sergio Ortolani, Annamaria Paris, Dr. Carlo Ludovico Ragghianti, Emilio Tolaini, Giuseppe Tucci, Lionello Venturi, Dr. Carlo Volpe, and Pietro Zampetti
Correspondents include: Yoshinobu Masuda and Jiro Arimitsu
Correspondents and subjects include: Dr. and Mrs. Bertel Hintze (Finland), Colin McCahon (New Zealand), H. Goetz (India), Necati Dolunay (Turkey), Robert Campbell (Australia), Abbas Katoozian (Iran), and Mohamad Saidi (Iran).
Correspondents include: F. Lugt, Gustav Herkner, Jan H.M. van der Marck, M.A.H. van Es, Dr. S.J. Gudlaugsson, N. Deurvorst, L.J. Bol, G.B. Herkner, Ida Swellengrebel, Dr. J.G. Van Gelder, James J. Post, N. Beets, J. van der Werff, Dr. A. Staring, and K.G. Boon.
Correspondents and subjects include: Dr. Sigurd Willoch.
Correspondents include: David Baxandall, and E.K. Waterhouse.
Correspondents include: R.E. Hutchison and Charles Coleman Sellers.
Correspondents include: Dr. Diego Angulo Iniquez, Pablo d'Almeida, Louis Reis-Santos, Dr. F.J. Sanchez Canton, and Fernando Alvarez de Sotomayor.
Correspondents include: Dr. Paul Ganz and Dr. G.H.A. Clowes
IPersonal correspondence is with family and friends, and between E.P. and Constance (note that Mrs. Richardson has annotated some envelopes with information about the contents). There are also condolence letters sent to Constance upon E.P.'s death. Correspondents include Siegfried Aram, Charles Culver, and Carl Ruggles.
E.P. Richardson's prominence as an art historian, writer, and expert on collecting is well documented through his prolific writings. Materials include drafts, notes, typescripts, and outlines for articles, exhibition catalog essays, and lectures. Many of the files contain research materials and clippings, correspondence, and other materials related to the event or topic. Also found are research files and publishing documentation for Richardson's books, including Washington Allston: A Study of the Romantic Artist in America (1948), Painting in America (1956), Charles Willson Peale and his World (1983), and American Romantic Painting (1944). Also included are miscellaneous notes and four diaries.
Drafts and typescripts of various writing projects for periodicals as well as exhibition catalogs. Materials include correspondence with galleries and publishers, research materials and clippings, as well as press releases, brochures, and notes.
Documents the frequent lectures and gallery talks given by Richardson to museums, galleries, community centers, historical societies and committees, and universities. Many files also include administrative correspondence regarding compensation, schedules, and travel, as well as handwritten notes and outlines of individual lectures. A number of lectures were for the Detroit Art Market and Youth Art Month during the period Richardson was Education Secretary at the Detroit Institute of Arts.
Includes 1 sound tape reel
Subseries includes correspondence and drafts of various writing projects about Charles Willson Peale, most prominently Richardson's book titled Charles Willson Peale and his World (1983). Files include research materials on Peale and the Peale family, including the Peale Museum, as well as drafts, typescripts, notes, and clippings.
Includes publishing and printing documentation for Richardson's 1956 book, Painting in America. Materials are comprised of correspondence, publishing agreements, image permissions, and clippings of reviews.
Includes publishing and printing documentation for various writing projects about Washington Allston, most prominently Richardson's 1948 book, Washington Allston: A Study of the Romantic Artist in America. Materials include correspondence, notes, printed material, research material, clippings, and photographs of Allston's artworks.
Includes correspondence, permissions, and drafts of Richardson's less prominent books and contributions to books including American Romantic Painting, the History of Philadelphia Project, Museums and Education, Sculpture of Marshall Maynard Fredericks, as well as drafts and notes of an untitled manuscript.
These files are miscellaneous handwritten notes and research materials for writing projects. Materials include handwritten notes, pamphlets, and clippings.
Included are annotated appointment books and two personal handwritten diaries. The diaries comment on the social and cultural life of Detroit; the authenticity of paintings; Richardson's reflections on contemporary American painting, thoughts about museums, dealers, artists, and art historians (especially Wilhelm R. Valentiner); and travel.
These are notes and clippings assembled into notebooks by Richardson over nearly six decades. Subjects include the art market, broadsides, engraving, fakes and forgeries, natural history, Philadelphia, photographs, thefts, Venice, and the art of various countries including the United States. Folder headings are taken from the original binder labels.
These are research files organized Richardson about individual artists and art history. Files may contain printed materials, photographs, scattered correspondence, notes, and writings. The most extensive coverage is of eighteenth and nineteenth century American artists and subjects. Other subjects include Canadian and Flemish art, some twentieth century artists, and American architecture.
Collector files contain reference material, such as printed materials, photographs, notes, authentications, and some correspondence about art collectors and their collections including Lamont du Pont Copeland, Michael W. Freeman, Nelson Rockefeller, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Allen, and the Marquis de Somerlous.
Three index card file boxes of 3x5 index cards created by Richardson contain titles and authors, and occasionally notations, of books and articles on history and art. Folder titles are from the original file boxes.
Professional and committee files document Richardson's professional and consulting work for the Art Quarterly, Detroit Institute of Arts, National Collection of Fine Arts, the National Portrait Gallery, the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, the John D. Rockefeller III collection, Winterthur Museum, and the White House. Also included are folders containing of his professional opinions on paintings and sculpture (in the form of correspondence), and a folder on the Historical Society of Pennsylvania. Files include meeting minutes, reports, correspondence, booklets, clippings, and photographs.
Constance C. Richardson's papers include business and professional correspondence with various institutions including the Carnegie Institute, De Young Museum, and San Francisco Museum of the Fine Arts, and most extensively with the Macbeth Gallery. In addition, there is a smaller amount of personal correspondence, photographs of a drawing of Constance by Alison Farmer, a folder of financial records, biographies, clippings, photographs, transparencies, and slides of her artworks, exhibition catalogs, two illustrated notebooks on her work (with titles, dates, dimensions, sites, names of purchasers and galleries where shown), and miscellaneous notes. Also included is Constance's artist palette.
Oversized material housed in Box 30, Folder 2
Oversize material from Box 29, Folder 20
A resume; business and personal correspondence, including letters from Richards to her family from Paris, and correspondence with galleries and museums; business records, including invoices and receipts; exhibition catalogs; photographs of Richards, her family, friends, and her work; and ink drawings.
The records of Los Angeles art gallery Richard Kuhlenschmidt Gallery measure 7.6 linear feet and date from 1972 to 2018 with the bulk of the material dating from 1980 to 1992. The collection comprises administrative records, correspondence with colleagues, artists, galleries, and museums, artist files, exhibition files, and printed materials for the Kuhlenschmidt Gallery and other galleries.
Administrative records consist of address and appointment books, guest books, gallery history records, and business records. Artist files are for Cindy Bernard, Nayland Blake, Barbara Bloom, John Knight, Louise Lawler, William Leavitt, Allan McCollum, Matt Mullican, Jack Pierson, Mitchell Syrop, James Welling, and others.
Exhibition files include records of the final exhibition held at the Jancar Kuhlenschmidt Gallery in 1982, the Coop Himmelb(l)au exhibition Six Projects for Four Cities (1990), the symposium "Welcome to the Millenium: Architecture Strikes Back," and a few other exhibitions. Printed materials are for the Kuhlenschmidt Gallery and other galleries.
The series contains an address book; three appointment books; two guestbooks; documents regarding the Jancar Kuhlenschmidt Gallery and the Richard Kuhlenschmidt Gallery, as well as a project space in Las Vegas; price lists; agreements for loans to artwork to the Whitney Museum of American Art, Museum of Modern Art, "The Köln Show," and the exhibition Art Against AIDS; and a few other administrative files.
Photocopy
2 books
Correspondence is with artists, business colleagues, galleries, and museums in Europe and the United States discussing exhibitions, loans, sales, and other topics related to the gallery.
Files on artists include slides and photographs of artwork, clippings, paste-ups for gallery promotions, resumes, price lists, exhibition plans and budgets, correspondence, and printed materials on Cindy Bernard, Nayland Blake, Barbara Bloom, John Knight, Louise Lawler, William Leavitt, Allan McCollum, Matt Mullican, Jack Pierson, Mitchell Syrop, James Welling, and others.
The series contains price and artwork lists, correspondence, printed materials, artist biographical information, loan agreements, and other material documenting the final exhibition at the Jancar Kuhlenschmidt Gallery, the Joe Bishop / AIDS Benefit (1985), Sculpture from Werkstatt Kollerschlag (1990), and a few other exhibitions. The files for Coop Himmelb(l)au contain material on the exhibition Six Projects for Four Cities (1990) held at the Richard Kuhlenschmidt Gallery and the coinciding symposium "Welcome to the Millenium: Architecture Strikes Back."
Includes material for the exhibition Six Projects for Four Cities (1990) and symposium "Welcome to the Millenium: Architecture Strikes Back."
The series consists of artwork reproductions of a "garden" series, brochures and booklets, clippings relating to the gallery and artists represented, exhibition announcements and catalogs for the Richard Kuhlenschmidt Gallery and other galleries, posters, magazines and journals, and gallery press releases.
The William Trost Richards papers measure 1.8 linear feet and date from 1848-1920. The collection documents Richards' personal life and his career as a landscape and seascape painter. The collection consists of correspondence, writings, business files, printed material, photographs, and other miscellaneous materials.
Correspondence files date from 1851 to 1917 and include family correspondence between Richards and his wife Anna as well as with their children. Of note are letters written by William Trost Richards to his wife while he was in Europe, which include many illustrations of his travels. Also found is general correspondence of a personal and professional nature between Richards and friends, artists, art dealers, and collectors, many of whom played a prominent role in Philadelphia society. Writings include essays written by Richards, homemade magazines written and illustrated by the Richards family, and writings by his wife Anna and others. Business files contain financial, legal, and real estate records, and printed material contains an exhibition catalog from 1976, news clippings, and event programs. Miscellany found in this collection include artwork by others, and inventory of paintings by others, compiled by Richards, and an interview transcript with Miriam Thayer Richards. Photographs include images of Richards, his wife Anna, and their home in Newport, Rhode Island.
This series contains Richards' incoming and outgoing correspondence with family, friends, artists, dealers, and collectors, and is divided into family and general correspondence. Files arranged alphabetically by name of correspondent and chronologically within each folder.
Family Correspondence includes letters from William Trost Richards or his wife, Anna M. Richards, to family members. The bulk of this subseries are intimate and detailed letters to their daughter Eleanor (Nelly) Richards Price concerning things such as the family, travels throughout Europe, raising children, clothing, and societal issues. Also found are letters to their son-in-law, William Price, one letter to their son Herbert, letters to their son Theodore and his wife, Miriam Thayer Richards, and letters to Anna's brother, Charles Matlack. Also of note are letters written by William Trost Richards to his wife while he was in Europe, which include many illustrations of his travels. Researchers should note that much of the correspondence was originally undated and was dated much later based on the content of the letter.
General Correspondence is with friends, fellow artists, collectors, and others and includes letters to and from William Trost Richards. Correspondence is with artists Fidelia Bridges, George Cochran Lambdin, and William H. Willcox, art dealer Samuel Putnam Avery, and Edward H. Coates, President of the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts. Also found are numerous letters to and from his major patron and collector, George Whitney, and from his friend and patron, Elias Lyman Magoon. Items of note in the miscellaneous correspondence include, an 1877 letter from Thomas Eakins, an 1881 letter from Alexander Lawrie, and an 1883 letter from Charles Lanman.
Writings include essays written by Richards in the early 1950s including "Flowers" and "The Spirit of Toil," as well as several essays for the Forensic and Literary Circle of Philadelphia. Also found are unpublished, homemade magazines, created by Richards, Anna, and their children. "London Days: A Homemade Magazine of Literature, Art, Science and Fun" was created while the family lived in London from 1879 to 1880, and upon their return the series was called "Our Own Monthly." Anna home schooled all of their children and these were made as part of their education. All of the magazines are illustrated by William and Anna.
Writings also include works by Anna, such as an edited manuscript of her poem "Chemistry" and annotated editions of her published work, Dramatic Sonnets. Also found is Anna's "commonplace book" filled with quotations, literary excerpts, and her own thoughts. This series also includes writings by others, including an "In Memoriam" poem for Richards by Esther Morton Smith.
Not scanned
Business files include various financial statements for the sale of artwork, purchase of materials, and shipping expenses. Also found are three copies of legal documents concerning Richards' artwork while living in London, and various real estate documents for his property in Pennsylvania and Rhode Island.
Printed material includes an exhibition catalog for a Richards exhibition at the Art Association of Newport and numerous clippings concerning Richards' artwork, his death, and a major auction of his work in 1906. Also found are event programs for gatherings of the Forensic and Literary Circle.
This series contains artwork by others, including small paintings and prints, an award to Richards from the United State Centennial Commission, and a handwritten list of paintings by others, including painter, title, and dimensions of each work. Also found is a transcript of an interview with Mrs. Theodore (Miriam) Richards, primarily discussing her memories of Anna M. Richards.
Photographs include portraits of William Trost Richards as a young man, as well as later in his life. Two photographs of note are a daguerreotype of Richards from the 1850s, and a photograph of Richards painting in his studio. Also found are portraits of Anna Richards, two of Richards' children, possibly Theodore and Anna, a pendant with photographs of William and Anna, and photographs of the Richards family home on Conanicut Island.
Not scanned
Sketches and drawings; Christmas cards, book plates, and book jackets designed and drawn by Rickard; typed articles by Rickard; a diary of a trip to Mexico; a diary kept during World War I; various personal papers including a few letters, income tax forms, Army enlistment and discharge papers, will and testament; photographs; and miscellany.
Photographs of artists Joel Cobb, Allan Crite, Judy Dater, Xavier Gonzalez, Lotte Jacobi, Joel Meyerowitz, Henry Schwartz, Arnold S. Trachtman, William Wainwright, William Wegman, and John Wilson.
44 transparencies of sculptural monuments in the United States, primarily in New York City and Massachusetts.
Fourteen letters written to Robb, 1846-1871, from John Gadsby Chapman, Henry Dilworth Gilpin, James H. Hackett, George Peter Alexander Healy, Daniel Huntington, Miner Kilbourne Kellogg, William Kemble, Charles Macalester, Hiram Powers, Robert Walter Weir, and Richard Henry Wilde; a letter written to "My Dear Sir" by Robb, 1848; a handwritten copy of an agreement between Hiram Powers and Robb concerning the exhibiting of Powers' THE GREEK SLAVE, 1848; a page of clippings, undated and 1859, relating to the sale of the Robb collection and to his railroad affiliation.
6 letters from Strater to Robertson regarding Strater's retrospective exhibition at the Speed Museum, and a newspaper article about Strater.
The scattered papers of painter Florence V. Reynolds and the Hapgood Family research material regarding Reynolds measure 0.2 linear feet and date from circa 1890 to 1990. Found are biographical materials on Reynolds and three photographs. Research materials includes correspondence between the Hapgood family and institutions and museums, lists of works of art, and exhibition material. A thesis by Janet Silverman is on Robinson.
Biographical materials include Florence Robinson's invitation to exhibit at the 1904 World's Fair, scattered letters, and lists of works of art. Research correspondence is with Elizabeth and Norman Hapgood regarding Florence Robinson, her works of art with annotated information, the donation of her paintings after her death, and a memorial exhibition. Of note are letters acknowledging Robinson's death from Louis Carnegie, and Archer M. Huntington; and letters reflecting Elizabeth Reynolds Hapgood's efforts to exhibit or place Robinson's work in museums and galleries, among them the California Place of the Legion of Honor, the Tate Museum, and the Worcester Art Museum, among others. A thesis on Robinson is by Janet Silverman. Also found are three framed photographs of Robinson, two of her as a young woman and one of her holding a child.
A pencil sketch by Robinson, ca. 1870, of his aunt, Hannah Brown Kingsbury; a note explaining the sketch written by Robinson's relative Ruth Berger Pattengill; and a photograph of Kingsbury.
Rochette and Parzini correspondence, financial records, business records, subject files, and photographs of works of art, concerning commissions for the 1939 New York World's Fair, the Museum of History and Technology (Smithsonian Institution), U.S. Senate and Capital buildings, government buildings, universities, churches and cathedrals.
Printed material including clippings, catalogs and exhibition announcements.
REEL LA 1: Announcements and catalogs; biographical material; and extracts from critics.
REEL 3471: 6 exhibition catalogs, 5 clippings, 2 pages of reviews, and a copy of THE GREAT WEST, (1973) which consists of 138 illustrations by Rogers.
"The Fisher Family, Painters," by Edward K. Rogers, an unpublished biography of Hugo Anton Fisher, Harrsion Fisher, and Hugo Melville Fisher, plus 7 slides, 7 negatives, and 5 photographs of the Fishers' work.
Letters, photographs, writings, sketches and drawings, business records, and printed material.
REEL 1683: Personal and business correspondence; clippings and other printed material; exhibition catalogs and announcements; inventories of prints and drawings on loan, or given to, the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston; photographs of the Romansky collection at the University of Texas, Austin; and photographs of Romansky, Alexander Calder, and others.
REEL 2093, FRAMES 327-509: An "Inventory of the Alvin and Ethel Romansky Collection of Prints and Drawings Relating Chiefly to the Second Empire, the Franco-Prussian War and the Commune of Paris." The Collection is in the M.D. Anderson Library, University of Houston.
REEL 2093, FRAMES 514-585: Correspondence, clippings, catalogs and announcements, a photograph of Alexander Calder taken by Romansky and a photograph of Romansky with others.
REELS 3451-3452: Correspondence; lists of loans for exhibitions; invoices, receipts and printed material dealing with Romansky collection; 5 prints by Romansky and 3 prints by Bill Condon; clippings; photographs of Romansky and other artists; information on the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston including by-laws, minutes of accessions committee and board of directors, and lists of trustees.
Biographical material; files on Alexander Brook, Charles Burchfield, George Luks, Peppino Mangravite, Henry Lee McFee, Maurice Prendergast, Eugene Speicher, Theodoros Stamos, and others whose work Root collected, containing correspondence, catalogs, checklists, clippings, receipts, and notes; correspondence with Harris K. Prior and Joseph Trovato of the Munson-Williams-Proctor Institute, Lydia Powell, William Roerick, Carl Zigrosser, galleries, dealers, and museum officials; inventories, correspondence, notes, catalogs, and clippings relating to Root's collection; writings; diaries; sketches by Root; files on the Utica Art Society; and photographs of Root, his home, his art collection and exhibitions.
The Rosamund Felsen Gallery records measure 28.9 linear feet and date from 1949 to 2014, with the bulk of the records dating from 1978 to 2014. The records shed light on the gallery's operations primarily through administrative records, artist files, exhibition and event files, financial records, born digital material, photographs, and slides.
Administrative records consist of advertising files, property records, a gallery notebook, gallery digital files, and more. Also included in this series are several folders comprised of Rosamund Felsen's personal and professional papers and photographs. Artist files consist of resumes, slides and photographs of artists and their work, printed material, some sales and consignment records, and correspondence. Artists represented in the collection include Richard Jackson, Kaz Oshiro, Tim Ebner, John Boskovich, Jeff Gambill, Jeffrey Vallance, Mitchell Syrop, Mac James, Marnie Weber, Keith Sklar, Leland Rice, Erika Rothenberg, Peter Lodato, Paul McCarthy, Jim Shaw, Al Ruppersberg, Ilya Kabakov, Lari Pittman, Cisco Jiménez, Chris Burden, Mike Kelley, and Heidi Kidon.
Exhibition and event files relate to Rosamund Felsen Gallery exhibitions and performances as well as a number of art fairs and exhibitions held at other galleries and museum spaces. The files contain consignment and sales records, check lists, born digital material, photographs and slides, installation directions, printed material, and more. Financial records contain primarily sales records, invoices, some correspondence, and receipts.
Administrative records consists of the drafts, price lists, invoices, and correspondence relating to the gallery's advertising in various art publications; appraisal records; papers relating to the gallery's location at Bergamot Station Art Center in Santa Monica; a gallery notebook; inventories of photographs taken by Douglas M. Parker Studio of artwork; born digital material, webpage printouts, and printed material from the internet site, Striking Distance; and gallery press releases.
Also included in this series are some of gallery founder Rosamund Felsen's personal and professional papers. Included are photographs and resumes; printed material and correspondence from Felsen's lectures, panel appearances, and interviews; and sixteen letters and two postcards, all but three of which are from Jasper Johns. The others are from Ellsworth Kelly, Al Ruppersberg, and Bob P.
Files might include artist resumes; born digital material, slides, transparencies, and photographs of artists, artwork, and installations; correspondence ranging from business affairs to more personal matters; writings and drafts of artist statements, catalogs, and essays; exhibition catalogs and announcements; newspaper and magazine articles and appearances; and some exhibition material such as check lists, price lists, and sales records. Some files also include sketches and photocopies of drawings. Artists with more extensive representation in this series include Patrick Hogan, Erika Rothenberg, Mike Kelly, Lari Pittman, Jim Shaw, Chris Burden, Tim Ebner, Marnie Weber, and Ilya Kabakov.
Included in Patrick Hogan's files are photographs taken throughout his life, at events held in his honor, his family and residence, and of his many exhibitions and paintings. Of particular note are images of the artist's studio, including depictions of the mechanism that assisted Hogan—born with a form of spinal atrophy—to complete his paintings.
Files relating to Rosamund Felsen Gallery exhibitions and performances include artist resumes, consignment and sales records, check lists, photographs and slides, drafts and mock-ups, born digital material, price lists, installation directions, and printed material such as catalogs, announcements, and clippings. Also included in this series are files relating to art fairs, exhibitions, trips, and performances held at other museums and galleries. Folders might include sales records, event itineraries, ephemera, slides and photographs, and printed material.
This series is composed mostly of the gallery's account records. Folders include sales records, scant correspondence, invoices, and receipts.
Exhibition catalogs and announcements; clippings and magazine articles; an article by Rosati, "David Smith, 1906-1965"; a photograph of Rosati and a photograph of a work of art; an award; and miscellaneous printed material on Rosati's sculpture.
Letters received, mainly from artists, Sept. 27, 1885-June 3, 1936, and undated, about works of art, invitations, exhibitions, art, travels and other art related subjects.
The letters are from: F.R.S. Balfour, Belfer?, Salvatore F. Bilotti, Carle Joan Blenner, Adolphe Borie, Frederick Andrew Bosley, Lewis D. Brandeis, Hugh Henry Breckenridge, Benjamin Nathan Cardozo, Walter Clark, William Anderson Coffin, Timothy Cole, Morgan Colt, Thomas H. Grattan Esmonds, William Bailey Faxon, D. Newlin Fell, John S.H. Fogg, Paul Leicester Ford, Charles Allan Grafly, Simon Gratz (13 letters), Sadakichi Hartmann, Jean A.A.J. Jusserand, Burton Alva Konkle, Hermann Dudley Murphy, New York Etching Club, William Ordway Partidge, William McGregor Paxton, Samuel Pennypacker (22 letters), M. Elizabeth Price, Edward Willis Redfield, Fred T. Richards, Henry R. Rittenberg, Alexander Charles Robinson, S. M. Rosenbach,
Chauncey Foster Ryder, Leopold G. Seyffert, John Simon, William H. Staake, Abby Weld Stevens, Mayer Sulzberger (14 letters), Henry Ossawa Tanner, Bernhard Uhle, Devitt Welsh, Anne Hollingsworth Wharton, and Frederick Ballard Williams. Also included are a letter from Rosenthal to S.T. Lowrie, a letter from J.W. Dunsmore to H.B. Snell, regarding hanging Rosenthal's portrait of Snell at the Salmagundi Club, and a notice of a sale of etchings by Robert Morris, 1899.
Biographical material, personal and professional correspondence, writings, three photographs of Rosenquit, and printed material consiting of press reviews.
An additional 45 items microfilmed on reel 5299 include personal and business letters; four photographs of Rosenquit, 1947-1966, and four photographs of his work; a resumé, 1976; a draft of a short story by Rosenquit, "An Orderly Suicide," clippings; reproductions; and announcements for shows at the Roko Gallery and elsewhere. Many items are annotated by Rosenquit. Among the correspondents are Ann Freilich, Wendy Owen, Daniele Deverin, and May Swenson.
The Rose Fried Gallery records measure 8.1 linear feet and date from 1936 to 1972 with the bulk of materials dating from 1945 to 1970. The majority of the collection consists of artists files documenting the gallery's relationship with abstract, modern, and Latin American artists; additional named subject files; and scattered administrative and financial files. Individual artists and subject files contain a wide variety of documentation, such as correspondence, photographs, financial records, and printed materials.
Scattered administrative records document the founding and history of the Rose Fried Gallery, biographical materials about Rose Fried, as well as scattered administrative correspondence, press releases, and gallery catalogs. There are two sound recordings of interviews with Rose Fried in which she discusses the origins of the Rose Fried Gallery and some of the gallery's shows.
The bulk of the records consist of alphabetical artists' and clients' files documenting the gallery's dealings with individual artists, clients, other galleries, museums, and universities. Contents of individual files vary but may include correspondence, contractual agreements, financial records, printed material, and photographs. A few of the artists represented in the files include Olle Baertling, Joseph Cornell, Ben Cunningham, Sonia Delaunay, Sorel Etrog, John Ferren, Raymond Hendler, Wassily Kandinsky, Stanton MacDonald-Wright, Piet Mondrian, Russell Morgan, Francis Picabia, Hans Richter, Joaquin Torres-Garcia, and Jean Xceron, among many others.
This series contains writings concerning the founding and the history of the Rose Fried Gallery, biographical records about Rose Fried, scattered correspondence and financial records, writings, printed materials. Included are two recorded interviews with Rose Fried where she discusses the origins of the Rose Fried Gallery and some of the gallery's exhibitions.
Artists and Client Files are comprised of individual files for artists, galleries, museums, and universities that had dealings with the Rose Fried Gallery. Artists represented include cubists, futurists, Dadaists, and masters of Latin American Art. Material is comprised of contracts, loan agreements, financial material, correspondence, press releases, news clippings, exhibition catalogs, and photographs.
Particularly rich files are found for Olle Baertling, Sorel Etrog, John Ferren, Stanton MacDonald-Wright, Joaquin Torres-Garcia, and Jean Xceron. The Olle Baertling file includes one sound recording.
Oversized material housed in OV 9.
The papers of Dominican American installation artist Moses Ros measure 2.3 linear feet and date from 1978 to 2012. The collection is comprised of files for several New York City Housing Authority commissions, as well as architecture, sculpture, and mural projects; professional files for Dominican York Proyecto GRAFICA, MUD/BONE Print Studio, and a New York American Institute of Architects residency; printed materials; and artwork that includes doodles, sketches, mock ups, and a paper and feather mask.
The series contains correspondence, sketches, progress reports, photographs, agreements, invoices and receipts, and other documents relating to commissions for the New York City Housing Authority and Metropolitan Transit Authority. Also included are project files for paintings, sculptures, artist books, murals, and an exhibition for the Longwood Arts Project.
Plans for the benches include a version incorporating Ros's Myles Davis sculpture.
Includes photographs of Freedom, Mi Casita, and unidentified projects.
Includes giant print, head, poet, and various other sculpture projects.
Professional files document Ros's activities outside of his commission and project work. Meeting notes and agendas, correspondence, contracts, guidelines, and printed materials are included in files for the artist groups Dominican York Proyecto GRAFICA and MUD/BONE Print Studio. Additionally, a notebook and other material for a business course, information regarding a residency with the New York American Institute of Architects, receipts, and research material are also in the series.
Includes an artist's services list, article on Alexander Calder, a paper on Leonardo Da Vinci, and information on mural and outdoor sculpture materials and techniques.
Printed materials consist of art reproductions, booklets, clippings, exhibition catalogs and announcements, newsletters, and posters regarding Ros and his artwork, public artwork in New York City, and arts organizations.
Includes a mock up of the Empowerment exhibition catalog.
Doodles interspersed with notes, sketches for various projects, a paper and feather mask, and mock ups that include panels covered with paint or colored paper are in artwork.
Mask is constructed from colored paper and feathers.
Includes a wooden rod, paper circle, mosaic sample, and a small animal sculpture.
Includes rectangular panels covered with drawings and colored paper.
Includes painted gold rectangular panels and a "Trabajos Armados" banner.
Some sketches are photocopies from a sketchbook.
Receipt to John H. George for art instruction, 1862 to 1863.
Biographical data; exhibition catalogs; an article on actors and artists by Rothbort; a clipping, 1954; printed material on his film The Ghetto Pillow later named Memories of the Shtetl; 9 photographs of Rothbort's paintings; and 1 book, unmicrofilmed, "Out of Wood and Stone," 1952.
Correspondence, printed material, photographs, business records and a diary.
REEL 103: Clippings, 1929-1932, on exhibitions and activities of the Little Gallery, Cedar Rapids, Iowa, directed by Rowan (microfilm title: Little Gallery).
REEL 1208: Photographs used to publicize exhibitions at the Little Gallery, including 183 photographs of works of art, the Little Gallery Junior Art Club, Grant Wood, and William Herbert Dunton at work.
REEL D141-D142: Correspondence; a diary; business records of the Little Gallery, the Stone City Art Colony and Art School, and the Section of Fine Arts; photographs, including two of The Little Gallery, five of the Stone City Colony and Art School, six of Rowan and three of his paintings, and two photos showing Grant Wood, David McCosh, Arnold Pyle, Adrian Dornbush, and Marvin Cone; and catalogs, clippings and publications, including "A Report on Iowa Art Under Public Works of Art Jan. 20, 1934, under the direction of Grant Wood" containing reproductions of work, several clippings, a 2 p. report "three weeks after the beginning of work" and 2 p. typed "Notes" signed by Wood with a photograph attached.
Among the correspondents are Oscar Bluemner, Chaim Gross, Waldo Peirce, Henry Varnum Poor, Eleanor Roosevelt, Forbes Watson, and Grant Wood.
Letters and printed e-mails from galleries, museums, collectors and others; 15 DVDs; slides of works of art; and printed material.
Sketchbook containing 19 sketches of figures and landscapes.
Resumes; 4 excerpts from journals; excerpts from the diaries of Ryder's wife, Cornelia (Meta) Breckenfeld, 1921-1922, and 1951; correspondence, 1909-1955, primarily between Ryder and his wife, but also including 3 letters from Hans Hofmann, 1931 and 1960, and Vaclav Vytlacil, 1960; and photographs and 88 slides, 1921-1959, of Ryder, his family, house, works of art, and his wedding in Paris, 1921. Also included is an introduction to Monica Haley's proposed book on Ryder.
The papers of painter, illustrator, and screenprinter Allen Saalburg, 1924-circa 2003, bulk 1940-1987, measure 0.8 linear feet. Included are professional correspondence, printed material, and a scrapbook. Most photographs are of Saalburg and his artwork. Also found are biographical material and subject files.
Biographical material consists of a chronology. Correspondence is with New York Graphic Society and Bucks County Historical Society, Doylestown, Pennsylvania. Business conducted by Canal Press and exhibitions at Ink River Gallery are documented in the subject files. Books and World War II posters illustrated by Saalburg are among the printed material. A scrapbook consists mainly of printed material illustrated by Saalburg. Photographs include views of his home in Uhlerstown, Pennsylvania and the studio, Canal Press, in Frenchtown, New Jersey. Also found are photographs of a trip to Albrook Air Force Base, Panama Canal Zone, where he participated in an exhibition featuring paintings of military planes.
The chronology, compiled by Joseph Ruszicka, a researcher hired by the donor, is a photocopy.
Correspondence concerns arrangements with New York Graphic Society to sell Saalburg prints and gifts of his artwork to the Bucks County Historial Society, Doylestown, Pennsylvania.
The file concerning Saalburg's studio, Canal Press, contains business records and printed material. Correspondence, printed material and sales records document Saalburg's exhibitions at Ink River Gallery.
One folder of printed material is about Saalburg. The remaining folders contain books and other printed materials illustrated or designed by Saalburg. The posters were issued by the U.S. Office of War Information. Miscellaneous items are a periodical, and the program and invitation for a 1979 tribute to Claudius Charles Philipe.
The scrapbook contains many periodical covers and articles illustrated by Saalburg. Also included are a few newspaper clippings mentioning him and "Allen Saalburg: Descriptive Artist," a 1947 article published in Arts.
Photographs of Saalburg include studio portraits and informal snapshots. Some portraits are digitial copies of earlier images.
Color transparency
Includes negatives
Includes 2 negatives and article about the building's history
The papers of Cambridge sculptor and illustrator, Lilian Swann Saarinen, measure nine linear feet and date from circa 1909 to 1977. The collection documents Saarinen's career through correspondence with artists, architects, publishers, and gallery owners; writings and notes, including manuscripts and illustrations for children's books and publications; project and teaching files; financial records; artwork, including numerous project sketches; and photos of Saarinen and her artwork. Saarinen's personal life is also documented through diaries and correspondence with friends and family members, including Eero Saarinen, to whom she was married from 1939-1953.
Biographical material consists of resumes and biographical sketches, as well as a 1951 blueprint for the Eero Saarinen and Associates Office Building in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan.
Correspondence documents Saarinen's personal and professional life through letters to and from Eero Saarinen and other family members, including six letters from Loja Saarinen; correspondence with artists and architects, including Merle Armitage, Charles and Ray Eames, Carl Koch, Henry Kreis, Carl Milles, Laszlo and Sibyl Moholy-Nagy, Robert Venturi, and Harry Weese; and friends and colleagues at the Cranbrook Academy of Art and Knoll Associates. Also documented is Saarinen's business relationship with Midtown Galleries and Caresse Crosby, and publishers and publications including Child Life, Interiors, Otava Publishing Company, and Reynal & Hitchcock, Inc.
Writings and Notes document Saarinen's work on several children's publications, including Picture Book Zoo (1935) and Who Am I? (1946), through correspondence, notes, manuscript drafts, and extensive sketches. This series also includes Saarinen's ideas for other publications and incorporates some early writings and notes, as well as typescripts of her reminiscences about Eliel Saarinen, the Saarinen family, and the Cranbrook Academy of Art.
Diaries consist of bound diary volumes, loose-leaf journal entries, and heavily annotated engagement calendars, documenting Saarinen's personal life, artistic aspirations, and career development from the 1930s-1970s. This material provides a deeply personal view of the emotional landscape of Saarinen's life, her struggles to balance her identity as a working artist with the roles of wife, mother, and homemaker, and the complex, and often competing, relationships within the renowned architectural family into which she married.
Project files document Saarinen's work on book cover designs, federal and post office commissions in Bloomfield, Indiana, Carlisle, Kentucky, and Evanston, Illinois, reliefs for the Crow Island School in Winnetka, Illinois, and other important commissions including the Harbor National Bank Clock in Boston, Massachusetts, the KLM Airlines installation at JFK Airport, the Fountain of Noah sculpture at the Northland Center in Detroit, Michigan, and the interior of Toffenetti's restaurant in Chicago, Illinois. Also documented is her role in designs for the Gateway Arch in St. Louis, with Eero Saarinen.
Teaching files document Saarinen's "Language of Clay Course" which she taught at Cambridge Art Center and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Financial records document exhibition and sales expenses for two exhibitions, including her show at G Place Gallery in 1944.
Printed material consists of clippings about Saarinen and her family, exhibition announcements and catalogs for herself and others, and reference files from the 1930s-1940s, primarily comprising clippings of animals.
Additional printed material documenting Saarinen's career can be found in one of two scrapbooks found in the collection. An additional scrapbook consists of clippings relating primarily to Saarinen's parents.
Artwork comprises extensive sketches, particularly animal and figure sketches, in graphite, crayon, ink, pastel, and watercolor. The sketches demonstrate in particular Saarinen's developing interest in and skill with animal portraiture from her childhood to the 1960s.
Photographs are primarily of artwork and Saarinen's 1944 exhibition at G Place Gallery. Also found are one negative of Saarinen, probably with Eero Saarinen, and a group photo including Lilian, Eero, and Eliel Saarinen with the model for the Detroit Civic Center, circa 1940s.
Biographical material consists of résumés and biographical sketches written by Saarinen, and a 1951 blueprint of the Eero Saarinen and Associates office building in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, labeled "July/54 Kiln data."
Oversized material housed in OV 12
Saarinen's correspondence files document her personal life and career. Incoming letters form the bulk of the series, but are interspersed with outgoing letters, often in the form of drafts handwritten by Saarinen. Personal correspondence includes letters written between Lilian and Eero Saarinen, which provide insight into their relationship during the 1940s and early 1950s, and their decision to divorce in 1953. These letters also reference professional projects, including Eero Saarinen's involvement in the design of the Antioch College residence halls. Other letters describe Saarinen's planning meetings for the UNESCO headquarters in Paris, and enclose sketches of his preliminary ideas for the project.
Many letters from Susan Hammond, Saarinen's mother, chronicle events in the Swann and Sedgwick families. Hammond frequently enclosed letters sent to her by others about Saarinen in her letters to Saarinen. Family correspondence includes letters from Saarinen's son, Eric, her sister Lucy Livingston Schwartz, letters from other members of the Swann family, and a letter from her cousin, Edie Sedgwick.
Letters which document Saarinen's professional life include correspondence with publishers and publications such as Child Life, for which Saarinen provided illustrations; Interiors regarding the publication of an article by Saarinen about her and her work; Otava Publishing Company, including the 1956 contract for the Finnish edition of Who Am I?; Reynal & Hitchcock, Inc., relating to the original publication of Who Am I? in 1946; and Rutgers University Press regarding Saarinen's proposed jacket design for the cover of A Short Chronology of American History 1492-1950 (1952) by Irving S. and Nell M. Kull. Additional correspondence relating to Saarinen's writings can be found in Series 3: Writings and Notes.
Also found is correspondence with Caresse Crosby regarding the consignment of Saarinen's artwork to Gump's and other galleries in the 1940s, and referencing Crosby's Portfolio: An Intercontinental Quarterly, for which Saarinen provided illustrations. Correspondence with Alan D. Gruskin of Midtown Galleries, who Saarinen contracted to represent her nationally from 1943-1948, includes Saarinen's sketches for her 1944 exhibition at G Place Gallery in Washington D. C., under the direction of Caresse Crosby.
The series includes substantial correspondence with other artists and architects, many of whom were personal friends of Saarinen, including Merle Armitage, Walter Baermann, Alexander Calder, Charles and Ray Eames, Carl Koch, Henry Kreis, Carl Milles, Laszlo and Sibyl Moholy-Nagy, Robert Venturi, and Harry Weese. Also found is correspondence with the design firm Knoll Associates, Cranbrook Academy of Art directors and artists Soltan Sepeshy, Maija Grotell and Marianne Strengell, six letters from Loja Saarinen, and a telegram from Eliel Saarinen.
The bulk of the correspondence relating to Saarinen's sculpture commissions can be found in Series 5: Project Files, but related correspondence is scattered throughout this series.
Oversized material housed in OV 12
Includes illustrated letters; oversized material housed in Box 8, Folder 1
Oversized material housed in Box 8, Folder 1
One letter to Saarinen from 1974 encloses two photos of Lilian Swann Saarinen, circa 1935, and one photo of one of Saarinen's sculpture
Oversized material housed in OV 12
Includes letter from Anne Morrow Lindbergh
Oversized material housed in OV 12; includes sketches of exhibition layout
Oversized material housed in Box 8, Folder 1
Includes photo of Swann Saarinen, circa June 1970
Includes one black and white and one color photo of a sculpture by Swann Saarinen
Oversized material housed in Box 8, Folder 1
Doda letter encloses childhood drawings by Swann Saarinen
Oversized material housed in Box 8, Folder 1
Writings and notes document the writing and publication of Saarinen's Picture Book Zoo and Who Am I?, as well as Saarinen's ideas in draft, typescript and sketch form for other publications such as "Animals and War Machines," a proposed follow-up to Who Am I? titled "Who Helps Who?" and other children's writings such as "Susie Sing All Day" and "What Is Mine?" Documentation consists of correspondence with publishers, drafts and typsecripts of texts, original artwork including preliminary sketches, photos of artwork, and book layouts.
Also found are school writings from the 1920s-1930s; typescripts and handwritten drafts of Saarinen's memories of the Cranbrook Academy of Art, Eliel Saarinen, and the Saarinen family; and miscellaneous writings which include "Sculpture by American Soldiers" in which Saarinen drew on her 1945 experience teaching convalescent soldiers.
Oversized material housed in Box 8, Folder 2 and OV 13
Oversized material housed in OV 14
Oversized material housed in Box 8, Folder 3 and OV 15
Oversized material housed in OVs 13 and 16
Oversized material housed in Box 8, Folder 3
Saarinen was a prolific journal writer and her diaries are in bound volume and loose leaf form. Bound diary volumes from 1930/1931 to 1942 document her life from her "coming out year" and continue through the early years of her marriage to Eero Saarinen. Her 1939 diary opens in Florence, Italy, in August 1939, days before Germany's invasion of Poland, and describes the tenuous situation the newlyweds found themselves in and their difficulties finding passage back to the United States. The diary labeled 1936 and 1937 also contains a series of entries for 1958-1959. Written on the page at the front of the 1939 December-1942 January is the inscription: "Diary-Cranbrook from Sept 1939 To:" and "The new Mrs. E. E. Saarinen!" but any original pages that existed from September-November are missing. The months August-October 1939 are included in the previous diary.
Loose diary entries, beginning around circa 1934 and continuing to 1953, with scattered additional entries in the 1950s-1970s, focus primarily on Saarinen's marriage to Eero Saarinen. They document in depth her emotional struggles as a working mother attempting to forge her own artistic identity, maintain a healthy family environment for her children, and support Eero Saarinen's growing international success, while not allowing that to stymie her own artistic ambitions. These folders include many handwritten notes and drafts of "letters" to Eero Saarinen which are journalistic in nature and include dream journals, "writings and ravings just before wedding," and notes found with her diaries.
Saarinen's engagement calendars are heavily annotated with notes documenting her professional appointments, progress on works of art and commissions, and Saarinen's leisure activities.
Oversized material housed in Box 8, Folder 4
Project files document Saarinen's work on a variety of commissions including those for book cover designs, federal government buildings, post offices, schools and playgrounds (particularly the Crow Island School reliefs), companies such as KLM (then Royal Dutch Airlines), businesses such as Toffenetti's restaurant in Chicago, and private clients, including sister-in-law, Pipsan Saarinen. The majority of the projects documented here resulted in fully realized commissions for Saarinen, although several represent ideas and proposals.
Project files typically contain any and all of the following: correspondence and notes, many preliminary sketches, plans and blueprints, and photographs of artwork and project sites, with the bulk of the material being in the form of sketches. Sketches are primarily in graphite, although some are hand-colored with ink and/or paint.
Crow Island school sketches are arranged alphabetically by subject, primarily animals.
Oversized material housed in Box 8, Folder 5
Oversized material housed in Box 8, Folder 6
Oversized material housed in Box 8, Folder 7 and OV 20
Oversized material housed in Box 8, folder 7
Oversized material housed in OV 17
Oversized material housed in Box 8, Folder 8 and OV 18
Oversized material housed in Box 8, Folder 9
Oversized material housed in Box 8, Folder 10
Oversized material housed in Box 8, Folder 11
Oversized material housed in Box 8, Folder 12 and OV 18
Oversized material housed in Box 8, Folder 13 and OV 18
Oversized material housed in Box 8, Folder 14
Includes photo of Saarinen working on sculpture; oversized material housed in Box 8, Folder 15 and OV 19
Oversized material housed in Box 8, Folder 15 and OV 19
Oversized material housed in Box 8, Folder 16
This series consists of three folders relating to a course Saarinen taught at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and the Cambridge Art Center entitled "The Language of Clay." Found are correspondence and memoranda, course descriptions, notes, and student rosters.
Series consists of invoices and receipts for supplies and other art-related expenses, records of book royalties for Who Am I? from Reynal & Hitchcock, Inc., and miscellaneous receipts. Also found are records documenting exhibition related expenses, and two catalogs for 1944 and 1956 Saarinen exhibitions, marked with prices.
Series includes announcements and catalogs for two Saarinen exhibitions, as well as some for other artists, many of which are annotated with comments by Saarinen stating her opinion of the artist featured. Also found are copies of a book jacket for The Americans: A New History of the People of the United States (Little Brown and Company, 1963) by Oscar Handlin, the jacket design for which includes a photo of a brass eagle by Saarinen.
Printed material also includes a group of reference files of clippings, primarily featuring photos of animals, arranged alphabetically by animal, some news clippings about Saarinen and the Saarinen family, and a folder of news articles on miscellaneous subjects of interest to Saarinen.
Series includes a family scrapbook of clippings about Saarinen's father, Dr. Arthur Swann, concerning his bee cures for rheumatism, as well as his marriage to Saarinen's mother, Susan Sedgwick.
The Saarinen scrapbook compiles letters, telegrams, news clippings, announcements and other printed material documenting Saarinen's career from 1935-1974.
Oversized volume housed in Box 9, Folder 1
Artwork consists of Saarinen's sketches in graphite, crayon, ink, pastel, and watercolor that did not appear to be arranged as part of her project files. It includes early sketches dating from her childhood to her college years, and subsequent sketches from the 1940s-1960s, and illustrates her early and developing interest in animal subjects.
Sketches are primarily of animals such as eagles, lions and other cats (including the Jungle Book character Bagheera), horses, Pekingese dogs, pelicans, and squirrels. Also found are sketches of various other animals including buffalo, bulls, calves, cats, dogs, goats, lambs, and pigs; anatomy and figure sketches; and a series of sketches executed on a trip to Mexico in 1938.
One folder consists of six colored sketches of a Cambridge house by Mary L. Provost.
Oversized material housed in Box 9, Folder 2 and OV 20
Oversized material housed in OV 20
Oversized material housed in Box 9, Folder 3
Oversized material housed in Box 9, Folders 3-5, Box 10, Folders 1-2, and OVs 20, 21
Oversized material housed in Box 10, Folders 3-4, and OV 22
Oversized material housed in Box 10, Folder 5
Oversized material housed in Box 10, Folder 6
Oversized material housed in Box 10, Folders 6 -7 and OVs 23-24
Oversized material housed in Box 10, Folder 8
Oversized material housed in Box 10, Folder 9
Oversized material housed in Box 10, Folders 10-12 and OV 25-26
Oversized material housed in Box 10, Folder 13
Oversized material housed in Box 10, Folder 14
Oversized material housed in OV 27
Photos of Saarinen and others include a negative of a photograph of Saarinen, possibly with Eero Saarinen, included with a 1977 letter of transmittal; a group photograph including Lilian, Eero and Eliel Saarinen with the model for the Detroit Civic Center; and a photo of an unidentified woman on a city street.
Photos of artwork by Saarinen include animal sculpture, head and figure sculpture, wood carvings, and Saarinen's Mowgli and Bagheera sculpture. Also found are photos by Betty Cooper of Saarinen's 1944 exhibition at G Place Gallery.
Oversized material housed in OV 27
Oversized material housed in Box 11, Folder 3
Oversized material housed in Box 11, Folder 4
Oversized material housed in Box 11, Folder 5
Oversized material housed in Box 11, Folder 6
Donald Saff papers and Saff Tech Arts records measures 31.8 linear feet, and 9.82 Gigabytes, and dates from circa 1710, 1800-2013, bulk 1965-2010.
Donald Saff's papers document his career as an artist, and contain professional records prior to the founding of Saff Tech Arts, including his tenure at University of South Florida and Graphicstudio. Also included are records and correspondence documenting consulting and other collaboration outside of Saff Tech Arts. Biographical material includes printed resumes as well as a biographical scrapbook with a hand-written letter in Italian dated 1710 and a biographical listing from "Who's Who in American Art." Correspondence is largely professional with some personal correspondence including letters with other artists. Listed chronologically, followed by an alphabetical run, this correspondence represents Saff's activities while affiliated with the University of Southern Florida and Graphicstudio. Also included are letters of reference for former students, studio assistants, and other colleagues, as well as regarding Saff's own job searches. The professional records subseries encompasses Saff's career as an artist including information on various bodies of artwork particularly in printmaking. This series focuses on Saff's professional career before Saff Tech Arts including Graphicstudio, as well as professional work after the height of Saff Tech Arts including consulting and curatorial work for the Guggenheim Museum and the status of Saff's registered patents. The writings subseries includes correspondence and manuscript material regarding Saff's 1978 book Printmaking co-authored with Deli Sacilotto, as well as follow-up and writings submitted for a possible update and reprint in the mid-1990s. Also included are published articles on the collaboration process. The exhibition subseries includes Saff's solo and group shows as an artist, as well as shows focusing on him as a fabricator and collaborator including the unrealized Joint Venture: Donald Saff and the Art of Collaboration, which was scheduled to open in Fall of 2009 at the Brooklyn Museum. The printed material subseries contains printed material related to Donald Saff's life and career before and following Saff Tech Arts, focusing on him as an educator and artist and founder of Graphicstudio, and the legacy of the art collection Saff assembled. The artwork subseries includes various sketches and notes by Donald Saff, as well as a test print made for wither Saff or another artist.
Saff Tech Arts (later Saff & Co.) records includes correspondence, founding documents including funding, fabrication and supplies information, artist files documenting working relationships ranging from potential collaboration, to long-term fabrication and representation, regular business relationships such as Knoedler & Co., and legal and insurance information including leases and worksite assessments, and printed material including clippings and subject files. Correspondents are usually clients including collectors and galleries. Artist files document a range of interest and working relationships ranging from potential collaboration, to long-term fabrication partnerships including representation. Regular collaborators included Nancy Graves, Robert Rauschenberg, Roy Lichtenstein, James Turrell, and James Rosenquist. Materials include printed material, fabrication information, sales and consignments, exhibition planning, shipping documents, and damage and restoration documentation. Business records include inventory, sales and consignments including multiple artists, regular business relationships including Knoedler & Co., appointment books, fabrication schedules, employee timesheets, and legal and insurance documents including claims, disputes and leasing information, as well as the pursuit of trademarks on production techniques. Some materials are in digital formats.
Donald Saff's papers document his career as an artist, and contain professional records prior to the founding of Saff Tech Arts, including his tenure at University of South Florida and Graphicstudio. Also included are records and correspondence documenting consulting and other collaboration outside of Saff Tech Arts.
Biographical material includes printed resumes as well as a biographical scrapbook with a hand-written letter in Italian dated 1710 and a biographical listing from "Who's Who in American Art."
Correspondence is largely professional with some personal correspondence including letter with other artists. Listed chronologically, followed by an alphabetical run, this correspondence represents Saff's activities while affiliated with the University of Southern Florida and Graphicstudio. Also included are letters of reference for former students, studio assistants, and other colleagues, as well as regarding Saff's own job searches.
The professional records subseries encompasses Saff's career as an artist including information on various bodies of artwork particularly in printmaking. This series focuses on Saff's professional career before Saff Tech Arts including Graphicstudio, as well as professional work after the height of Saff Tech Arts including consulting and curatorial work for the Guggenheim Museum and the status of Saff's registered patents.
The writings subseries includes corresponence and manuscript material regarding Saff's 1978 book Printmaking co-authored with Deli Sacilotto, as well as follow-up and writings submitted for a possible update and reprint in the mid-1990s. Also included are published articles on the collaboration process with various artists, as well as teaching materials and various guest lectures and interviews.
The exhibition subseries includes Saff's solo and group shows as an artist, as well as shows focusing on him as a fabricator and collaborator including the unrealized Joint Venture: Donald Saff and the Art of Collaboration, which was scheduled to open in Fall of 2009 at the Brooklyn Museum.
Photographic material includes images of Donald Saff and associates, as well as his artwork.
Printed material subseries contains printed material related to Donald Saff's life and career before and followin Saff Tech Arts, focusing on him as an educator and artist and founder of Graphicstudio, and the legacy of the art collection Saff assembled.
The artwork subseries includes various sketches and notes by Donald Saff, as well as a test print made for wither Saff or another artist.
Saff Tech Arts (later Saff & Co.) records includes correspondence, founding documents including funding, fabrication and supplies information, artist files documenting working relationships ranging from potential collaboration, to long-term fabrication and representation, regular business relationships such as Knoedler & Co., and legal and insurance information including leases and worksite assessments, and printed material including clippings and subject files.
Saff Tech Arts Correspondence is a combination of incoming and outgoing and is arranged chronologically as well as alphabetically in select cases by correspondent. Correspondents are usually clients including collectors and galleries.
Artist files document a range of interest and working relationships ranging from potential collaboration, to long-term fabrication partnerships including representation. Regular collaborators included Nancy Graves, Robert Rauschenberg, Roy Lichtenstein, James Turrell, and James Rosenquist. Materials include printed material, fabrication information, sales and consignments, exhibition planning, shipping documents, and damage and restoration documentation.
Business records include inventory, sales and consignments including multiple artists, regular business relationships including Knoedler & Co., appointment books, fabrication schedules, employee timesheets, and legal and insurance documents including claims, disputes and leasing information, as well as the pursuit of trademarks on production techniques.
Collected printed material is primarily clippings on subjects such as the art market and galleries, as well as individual artists.
The memoir China Eggs by Surrealist painter and poet Kay Sage measure 0.01 linear feet and dates from 1955. The memoir is a photocopy of a typescript draft and it covers the period of roughly 1910-1935. Sage writes of her family; childhood years in the United States and Europe; travels; her painting; living in Italy; her marriage to Prince Ranieri di San Faustino; and her friendship with Ezra Pound. The typescript draft is edited throughout, presumably by Sage.
The scattered papers of painter Judith-Ann Saks measure 0.2 linear feet, date from 1953 to 1977, and consist of printed materials and a scrapbook compiled by Saks which contains letters and printed materials.
Printed materials consist of publications featuring reproductions of works of art by Saks. The bulk of the collection consists of a scrapbook compiled by Saks, which is in reverse chronological order. The scrapbook is divided into chapters which include a summary of the items included in each chapter. Found are photocopies and original letters, clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and reproductions of works of art.
Diaries, correspondence, photographs, writings, scrapbook, exhibition materials, and printed materials.
UNMICROFILMED: Two stock books of the Harry Salpeter Gallery, Inc.; 13 bound copies of articles by Salpeter; a drawing; a manuscript of DR. JOHNSON AND MR. BOSWELL; 11 cartoons by Herb Kruckman; correspondence with artists and friends, including 8 postcards and 2 letters from David Burliuk, 1946-1957; photographs; writings, including articles for magazines; a scrapbook; exhibition catalogs; clippings; and books.
REEL 690-691: Diaries, January 1956-November 1967.
The Molly Saltman "Art and Artists" interviews measure 2.4 linear feet and contain 62 sound recording interviews and lectures with art collectors, teachers, actors, and artists. The interviews were conducted by Molly Saltman from 1966-1967 as part of the "Art and Artists" radio series broadcast on the KPAL radio station in Palm Springs, California. Additional recordings of KPAL content and nonbroadcast content were discovered upon digitization, including a Los Angeles Art Association anniversary event and a Charles White slide lecture.
This series contains 62 interviews (only one transcribed) conducted as part of the "Art and Artists" radio broadcast series by Molly Saltman between 1966 and 1967, each approximately 20 minutes long. The interviewees include art collector Bart Lytton, teachers, such as Lorser Feitelson and Arthur Secunda, actors Vincent Price and Dennis Hopper, composer Harry Partch, and a wide-variety of artists, including Claire Falkenstein, Richard Hamilton, Jack Levine, Stanton MacDonald-Wright, Joseph Nyiri, Otto and Gertrude Natzler, June Wayne, and Charles White.
Also found in this series are other events and programs on subjects related to the contemporary art world of Southern California, and other Palm Springs local programs, which may be present due to the practice of recycling audio tape. These include an additional lecture by Edward Biberman, a slide lecture by Charles White, a Los Angeles Art Association anniversary event, a lecture an performance by composer Henri Tamianka, and a lecture by an unknown speaker on the topic of Early Western Artists. Additional local programs found include a candidate forum, a weekly report by local congressman John Tunney, and a teen program broadcast on KPAL.
Unless otherwise indicated, the content listed below consists of interviews.
This lecture takes place at the Joslyn Museum and is by an unknown speaker on the subject of Early Western Artists
Found on tape with Carpenter interview (reel 1, side 2)
Found on side 2 of tape with Charles White lecture.
Broadcast version includes programming announcements and introductory material not present in original recording (Box 3, item 4).
Speakers include Helen Wurdeman, Nick Brigante, Peter Krasnow, and Lorser Feitelson, among others, recounting stories in the history of the association for an anniversary event. Recording is fragmentary and shares tape with multiple programs, including Gill (reel 2, side 2), Kaplan (reel 1, side 2), Partch (reel 1, side 2), and Raboff (reel 1, side 2).
Found on side 2 of tape with Maure interview.
Found on tapes with Feitelson interview.
Found on same tape as reel 2 of Hatfield program.
The papers of Cuban born painter and print maker Emilio Sanchez comprise 18.1 linear feet of material dating from 1922 to 2012. The papers contain biographical information about Sanchez; letters from galleries and museums recording business transactions; letters from friends; photographs of his artwork and places he visited for inspiration; personal photographs; sketches; exhibition catalogs, announcements, and reviews; clippings; and calendars.
A major portion of the collection consists of sketchbooks and sketches that provide rich documentation of Sanchez's artistic development and his working methods, particularly from the 1950s to the 1970s. Many of the sketches have detailed notations about aspects of an image that Sanchez wanted to recall and capture in his work. Photographs also provide insight into the architecture and landscapes that provided sources of inspiration for Sanchez.
A 10.1 linear foot addition contains biographical materials, correspondence, writings, photographs, works of art, subject files, printed materials, and scrapbooks. Biographical materials include address books, birth certificates, naturalization documents, and family-related documents. Correspondence is personal and professional and is with family, friends and museums. Writings are personal and include a log book and a typed transcription (possibly incomplete). Photographs are of Sanchez, his family, works of art, and source subjects for works of art, as well as CD-Roms of works of art. Some photographs assembled by Hugh Harrison, long-time friend of the Sanchez. Works of art include 10 sketchbooks and loose sketches. Also included are a drawing and 4 prints by Estrella Fonts, Sanchez's mother. Subject files include a print register, appraisals, mailing lists, and consignments. Printed material includes exhibition announcements and clippings. Also included are 3 scrapbooks, 2000-2012, that chronicle the history of the Emilio Sanchez Foundation's activities, including press releases, photographs, and exhibition-related material and hard drives of the foundation's databases in Filemaker format.
This series contains immunization records for travel, a passport, the transcript of an interview with Sanchez in which he discusses his work in detail, as well as several résumés and biographical information about the artist, such as lists of his work in public institutions and lists of his exhibitions.
Addition material includes passports, immigration and naturalization records, address books, travel diaries, a biography, and material from Sanchez's memorial service.
Correspondence consists of personal letters, correspondence with galleries, and correspondence with museums. Letters to Sanchez from 1965-1969 contains plats for the school house property in Wanamaker, Pennsylvania, that Sanchez purchased for studio space but ultimately sold because the area became too industrialized.
This series contains primarily color snapshots, in addition to some black and white photographs, several negatives and slides, and a series of contact sheets. There are family and personal photographs; photographs taken on travels intended to be used as sources for artwork; and photographs of works of art by Sanchez. Family and personal photographs include two photographs of Sanchez with his family, including his father; photographs of Sanchez at the Fortuny Exposition in Madrid in 1964 and at a 1966 exhibition in New York City; snapshots of him on his travels; and photographs of his "father, Pepino, and girlfriend" standing by Paris posters of Sanchez's 1953 exhibition at Bernheim-Jeune in Paris.
Addition includes additional personal photographs of Sanchez; photographs of architecture, plant life, landscapes, street scenes, and cityscapes that Sanchez would use in his artwork; and photographs and slides of Sanchez's artwork including files on artwork sold to museums and individuals.
This series contains exhibition announcements, press releases, catalogs, publications, and news clippings containing information about Sanchez, and relating to one-man exhibitions of his artwork and group exhibitions in which he participated.
This series contains eight day-book calendars with notations about appointments. There are no calendars for 1970 and 1971.
This series contains hundreds of original sketches by Sanchez, both loose and in sketchbooks. The sketches are primarily in pencil, but some are in ink and some are colored and include layouts for posters, and several proofs for lithographs. In addition to basic sketches capturing Sanchez's impressions drawn in a variety of locations throughout the world, the development of Sanchez's work on certain subjects is documented more fully in large groups of sketches, such as those of Boston City Hall and of his illustrations for the book Arte del Peru Colonial.
The majority of the sketches are of buildings and of architectural and interior features of buildings, particularly windows and doorways. Additional subjects include landscapes, seascapes, cityscapes, flowers and plants, sunsets, and figure drawings. Many of the sketches have notations by Sanchez indicating the location in which they were made or the project they were associated with, and some are dated. Notations may also indicate the medium of artwork, or the name of the individual work, that a sketch was used for.
Additional material consists of sketchbooks and sketches primarily of faces, dolls and figurines, shoes, and various types of fashion.
Some of the categories found in this subseries repeat, and overlap with, those found in 6.4 but the sketches are larger and are therefore stored in oversized folders. The final entry in the subseries is out of sequence but has been separated because it represents several sketches of architecture that were too large to store in oversized folders.
(includes original working sketch and finished poster for 1978 Sanchez exhibition at Williams College Museum of Art; also #20 of 50 posters for 1968 Sanchez exhibition at Associated American Artists, signed)
The unprocessed addition is 10.1 linear feet and contains biographical materials, correspondence, writings, photographs, works of art, subject files, printed materials, and scrapbooks. Biographical materials include address books, birth certificates, naturalization documents, and family-related documents. Correspondence is personal and professional and is with family, friends and museums. Writings are personal and include a log book and a typed transcription (possibly incomplete). Photographs are of Sanchez, his family, works of art, and source subjects for works of art, as well as CD-Roms of works of art. Some photographs assembled by Hugh Harrison, long-time friend of the Sanchez. Works of art include 10 sketchbooks and loose sketches. Also included are a drawing and 4 prints by Estrella Fonts, Sanchez's mother. Subject files include a print register, appraisals, mailing lists, and consignments. Printed material includes exhibition announcements and clippings. Also included are 3 scrapbooks, 2000-2012, that chronicle the history of the Emilio Sanchez Foundation's activities, including press releases, photographs, and exhibition-related material and hard drives of the foundation's databases in Filemaker format.
The Sandra Berler Gallery records measure 5.5 linear feet and date from the 1970s to 2013. The collection sheds light on the gallery's operations through administrative records, artist files, and exhibition files. Administrative records advertising and publicity files, invoices, receipts, consignment records, papers from Sandra Berler's involvement in the Association of International Photography Dealers, and some newspaper clippings. Artist files consist of correspondence related to the artist's work, biographical summaries, writings, price lists, photographs, negatives, slides, and more. Exhibition files include price lists, catalogs, announcements, loan documents, and some photographs.
Found here is correspondence with other galleries and museums, collectors, and various organizations regarding the sale or loan of photographs, lectures by Berler, exhibitions, and some personal matters from friends and colleagues. Association of International Photography Dealers files include correspondence, printed material, event and membership ephemera, and price lists. Files relating to Magnum Photos include correspondence, trade material, some exhibition material, and clippings. Reference files labeled photogravure and Mexico primarily include printed material and notes, but also contain price lists and scant correspondence. Also found here are articles written by Berler for the Washington Print Club's newsletter.
Folders might contain correspondence related to the artist's work, resumes, writings, price lists, copies of photographs, snapshots and slides, sales records, inventories, and exhibition material. Files for Bruce Davidson, Sandra Berler's brother in-law, include reviews of the book completed in conjunction with his exhibition at Berler Gallery, Time of Change: Civil Rights Photographs, 1961-1965 (2002).
Found here are price lists, exhibition catalogs and announcements, loan documents, newspaper clippings, and correspondence for several of the gallery's exhibitions. The Japan exhibition file includes correspondence and contact lists related to a potential show, and the exhibition idea file is composed of printed material, mostly exhibition announcements from other galleries, catalogs, clippings, notes, and some photographs.
The interviews and papers of Irving Sandler measure 2.8 linear feet and 1.63 GB and date from 1944-2017. Included are interviews and recorded lectures, some in digital format; photographs of artwork and artists; membership files, meeting minutes, and ephemera from the Club organization; printed material from individual artist and group exhibits; and teaching files.
Interviews with various artists conducted by Irving Sandler, his students, and other persons. Name of interview is included in the folder title when known.
File also includes one audio cassette tape.
Includes transcript for Perle Fine interview
Includes transcript
Primarily composed of images of artwork. There is also a photograph of Robert Rauschenberg, circa 1955-1965.
This series includes artist and group exhibition flyers, programs, and invitations.
Meeting minutes, membership files, and ephemera related to Sandler's involvement with the Club organization; teaching files; and the transcript of a panel discussion titled, "The Content of Abstract Art," which Sandler moderated.
The papers of Julia Santos Solomon measure 2.0 linear feet and date from 1972 to 2014. The papers document Santos Solomon's career as an artist, educator, and fashion designer through a proposal for "Lola!" television show, proposals for a series of children's books, exhibition announcements and catalogs, photographs of artwork, and other professional activity; writings consisting of notes, diary pages, and diaries; and sketches, sketchbooks, and other artwork.
Professional material consists of correspondence with Alice Dye, wife of Pete Dye, golf course architect; commission files relate to golf course landscape paintings, prints, and textiles; some exhibition catalogs and announcements; and printed material related to Altos de Chavon School of Design. Also included are proposals for a series of children's books consisting of some correspondence, draft manuscripts, and sketches. Audio visual material consists of a DVD and CD related to the pilot television program 'Lola' (never produced) created by Santos Solomon and Barbara Calamari and loosely based on Santos Solomon's biography, especially as a teenager and young adult. Also included are episode descriptions and notes about the show.
Writings include three diaries recording Santos Solomon's study of art and design, largely in the Dominican Republic and Europe. Also included are pages of diary entries from various years, and some notebooks of notes.
Artwork consists of sketchbooks, sketches, fashion illustrations, an original watercolor, pen, and pencil textile designs.
Professional material consists of correspondence with Alice Dye, wife of Pete Dye, golf course architect; commission files relate to golf course landscape paintings, prints, and textiles; some exhibtion catalogs and announcements; and printed material related to Altos de Chavon School of Design. Also included are proposals for a series of children's books consisting of some correspondence, draft manuscripts, and sketches. Audio visual material consists of a DVD and CD related to the pilot television program 'Lola' (never produced) created by Santos Solomon and Barbara Calamari and loosely based on Santos Solomon's biography, especially as a teenager and young adult. Also included are episode descriptions and notes about the show.
CD is labeled "Lola."
DVD is labeled, "Lola! 1. "No Aguanto Mas" by Celia Cruz & Johnny Pacheco 2. "Teatro" by La Lupe"
Contains draft manuscripts for some of the stories and sketches of characters and scenes.
Includes draft manuscripts and sketches of characters.
Writings include three diaries recording Santos Solomon's study of art and design, largely in the Dominican Republic and Europe. Also included are pages of diary entries from various years, and some notebooks of notes.
Artwork consists of sketchbooks, sketches, fashion illustrations, an original watercolor, pen, and pencil textile designs.
The small selection of records of the Santa Monica Art Gallery measure 0.4 linear feet and date from 1953 to 1967. The records document the history of the gallery through artist statements, correspondence with Round the World Tours, and photographs.
The records of the Santa Monica Art Gallery measure 0.4 linear feet and date from 1953 to 1967. The records document the history of the gallery through artist statements, correspondence with Round the World Tours, and photographs.
Letters from Childe Hassam, Martin J. Heade and Charles H. Niehaus.
A letter from Sargent to Margaret Stuyvesant Rutherford White (Mrs. Henry White), informing her that he has not finished her portrait, asking permission to send it to the academy for exhibition when completed, and mentioning his portrait of the Boit children and of Mme. Gautreau. Also included are a partial transcription of the letter; data about the letter; and a clipping of the Boit and White portraits.
Correspondence regarding Sarkisian's work as an instructor at the Detroit Society of Arts and Crafts School, the exhibition and sale of his paintings and the activities of his colleagues and friends; 3 scrapbooks; photographs of Sarkisian, of his work and the work of David Blower, of his family and his friends; exhibition catalogs; and printed materials.
The Raymond Saroff papers are dated 1953-2009 and comprise 1.2 linear feet. Letters, printed material and photographs compiled by Saroff document his interest in Claes Oldenburg and "Happenings." Also included are a videotape of Saroff's film Claes Oldenburg's "Ray Gun Theater – 1962" and receipts for artwork purchased for his modern art collection. The 2014 addition includes a catalog essay by curator and collector Howard Rose, Saroff's partner, for an exhibition of their folk art collection at Bard College (1991). Also found are financial records regarding his collections, related printed material, and photographs of artwork.
This series documents Saroff's interest in Claes Oldenburg. Of note is Saroff's film Claes Oldenburg's Ray Gun Theater - 1962" . In 1962, ten "Happenings" conceived by Oldenburg known as "Ray Gun Theater" were presented in New York City at a store on East Second Street. Each evening-long event was filmed by Saroff, who then edited the film to approximately two hours before releasing it commercially. Correspondence concerns gifts and loans from Saroff's art collection. Financial records consist of sales receipts including one for his purchase of Leg. Printed material includes exhibition catalogs, clippings, and miscellaneous items. Photographs and a transparency are of Oldenburg's work in several media.
Correspondence pertains to sales and loans from Saroff's Oldenburg art collection as well as from the folk art collection developed and owned by Saroff and Howard Rose. Among the writings are Rose's published and unpublished manuscripts on American folk art. Financial records include a collection inventory with provenance, attribution, and price information. Also found are receipts from galleries and auction houses documenting loans and sales. Printed material includes clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs. Photographs are of artwork.
Selected Sartain family papers from the Historical Society of Pennsylvania, Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, and the Moore College of Art, including correspondence, printed material, photographs, sketchbooks, writings, minutes of meetings and other organizational records, and memorabilia.
REEL 2727: Correspondence, mostly among the Sartain family: Emily writes to her father of her European travels with Mary Cassatt; letters from Elliott Dangerfield; correspondence of John Sartain, including letters from the poet Thomas Chivers; correspondence of William, Henry, Samuel, Harriet Judd, and Paul Sartain; receipts of John and Samuel, and undated genealogical notes.
REEL 4235: Photographs; scrapbooks; unpublished manuscripts; and correspondence of John, Emily, William, Samuel, and 12 letters from family friend and fellow artist, Thomas Eakins.
REEL P28 (fr. 337-581): Rembrandt Peale's manuscript "Notes of the Painting Room," subtitled "Art is Long and Life is Short." 215 p. + 24 p. index.
REELS 4562-4565 [filmed previously on reels P19-P20, P24, and P27-P28]: Included are: Emily Sartain correspondence and miscellaneous items, 1895-1923; Harriet Judd Sartain correspondence and biographical sketch, 1854-1887; Henry Sartain letters, 1862-1863; Samuel Sartain correspondence, 1850-1872, including letters to John Sartain while in London on business for his father, printed matter, copyrights and certificates and records of the Art-Union of Philadelphia (AUP), 1852-1885, including catalogs of prizes, an inventory of the AUP property, 1855, and printed reports; obituary for Susanna Swaine (John Sartain's mother); John Swaine's letterbook, 1834-1837; William Sartain letters, 1862-1919, n.d., many written while living in Paris, printed matter, photographs, and sketchbook; John Sartain genealogical information, letterpress books, 1869-1871 and 1887, concerning his Philadelphia and London exhibitions, work and business, correspondence, 1845-189?, financial information, lists of works of art, memberships and certificates, lectures and writings, a sketchbook, and printed material.
Also included are manuscript material and printed matter; scrapbooks containing clippings and a few letters; untitled commonplace books which were probably compiled by Harriet or Emily Sartain; John Sartain's records pertaining to the Artists' Fund Society, 1838-1846; Great Sanitary Fair, 1864; Centennial Exposition, 1876, including the Report of the Art Department, and memorabilia; the American Exhibition, London England, 1887; Sartain's Magazine expense book, 1849-1855; minutes of the Graphic Association of Philadelphia, 1849-1855; minutes of the Philadelphia Union of Associationists, 1847-1855; proceedings of the National Art Association second annual convention, held at the Smithsonian Institution, Jan. 11-14, 1859; and minutes of the meeting of the subscribers of the [Christian] Schussele picture fund.
The Naomi Savage papers on Man Ray measure 1.6 linear feet and date from 1913-2005. The collection provides an overview of Man Ray's career as a photographer and painter through correspondence, exhibition files, writings, notes, artwork, printed material, and photographs.
Correspondence primarily consists of incoming letters from art historians, students, publishers, museums, and galleries interested in obtaining biographical information, scheduling exhibitions, or seeking permission to reproduce artwork. Correspondents include Theodora Greenbaum, Sam Hunter, and Roberta Kimmel. Also found is a letter to Man Ray from Isamu Noguchi.
Exhibition files document some of Man Ray's solo and group exhibitions held at museums and galleries in the United States and abroad, including Galerie Anderson Mayer, the Philadelphia Museum of Art, Prakapas Gallery, Helen Serger, La Boetie, Inc., Ronny Van De Velde Gallery, Serpentine Gallery, Vered Gallery, and Zabriskie Gallery.
Writings and notes include typescripts of unpublished pieces on Man Ray and Surrealist photography and on Juliet Man Ray, miscellaneous writings, and Naomi Savage's list of Man Ray published work. Artwork consists of an artist's proof of a print by Paul Levitt.
Printed material houses news and periodical clippings on Man Ray and Juliet Man Ray, newsletters, reproductions of artwork, and miscellaneous printed material. Clippings provide documentation on Man Ray's early commercial photography for advertisements and fashion magazines as well as his experimental photographic work.
Photographs include portrait photographs of Man Ray and Juliet Man Ray. There are photographs of Man Ray and Juliet with family, friends, and colleagues, including photographs of Marcel Duchamp and Teeny Duchamp.
This series primarily contains letters from art historians, students, and others, requesting biographical information on Man Ray, from publishers seeking to reproduce images of artwork in catalogs and textbooks, and from museums and galleries planning exhibitions on Man Ray. Also included is correspondence relating to the PBS American Masters documentary, "Man Ray, Prophet of the Avant Garde."
Files contain Naomi Savage's draft versions of letters; copies of letters; scattered greeting cards and postcards; a loan request; and exhibition invitations.
This series documents several exhibitions held at galleries and museums during Man Ray's lifetime and after his death. Files include: correspondence, checklists, loan forms, condition reports, an invoice, shipping receipt, press releases, printed material, clippings, newsletters, brochures, exhibition catalogs, and photographs.
Also found are invitations and announcements for exhibitions on Man Ray and other artists, exhibition catalogs and brochure; auction catalogs, exhibition posters, miscellaneous printed material, and loose envelopes.
Oversized material housed in OV 4
Oversized material from Box 1, Folder 54
Writings and notes include typescripts, miscellaneous writings, a list, and scattered notes. Included is Naomi Savage's list of Man Ray's work in her personal collection that was loaned to museums and galleries for exhibition purposes.
Oversized material housed in OV 4
Oversized material from Box 1, Folder 60
Artwork consists of an artist's proof of a print by Paul Levitt that was produced for Man Ray's autobiography, Self Portrait. The print is a sketch of a beret; below the drawing is the caption "Ray 'Burray, The Hat Makes the Man.'"
Artist's Proof
This series houses news and magazine clippings on Man Ray, including obituaries, clippings on Juliet Man Ray, newsletters, reproductions of Man Ray's artwork, and miscellaneous printed material. Brief notes are attached to some of the clippings.
Oversized material housed in Box 3
Oversized material from Box 1, Folders 84-87
Oversized material from Box 1, Folders 89-90
Oversized material from Box 1, Folders 91-92
Photographs are of Man Ray, Juliet Man Ray, family, friends, and colleagues. Many of the photographs of family and friends were taken by Naomi Savage; individuals are not identified.
Scattered photographs consist of exterior shots, including Man Ray's residence in Paris, exhibition installations, and of artwork.
Oversized material housed in Box 3
Oversized material from Box 1, Folder 96
Oversized material from Box 1, Folder 97
Oversized material from Box 1, Folders 100-101
Oversized material from Box 2, Folder 2
Letters to Sayen; exhibition catalogs; printed material; annotated scrapbooks complied by Sayen's daughter, Ann, containing letters, photographs, clippings and material about Sayen's scientific achievements and his lunettes for the U.S. Capitol completed in 1905; a typescript of a talk, "The United States and Modern Art," given by Sayen at the Philadelphia Sketch Club; typescript of an unpublished autobiography, "Blossoms of Liberty," by Jeannette Hope Sayen, Sayen's wife; a diary kept by Harvey Thomas Sayen, Sayen's brother; and photographs of Sayen's paintings, pottery, and commercial illustrations.
Letters; two photographs of Schaus; pages from a scrapbook of clippings; an exhibition catalog; and numerous loose clippings.
Material relating to painters Gandy Brodie and Forrest Bess.
REEL 3458: Letters from Bess, some illustrated with sketches, diagrams, clippings, or black and white snapshots. Some of the later letters relate to Bess's life in Bay City, Texas, his work, his dealings with gallery owner Betty Parsons, and his stays in a state mental ward and a Veterans' Administration hospital. Also includes copies of letters from Bess to other correspondents, and a copy of a letter from Schapiro to Bess; an exhibition catalog; and a photocopy of a list of letters from Bess lent by Schapiro to the Whitney Museum of American Art.
REEL 3475: A letter from Bess to Schapiro and his wife Lillian; a letter to Bess from ART NEWS rejecting his article; photocopies of letters, notes and diagrams by Bess.
UNMICROFILMED: Materials relating to Gandy Brodie, including 68 letters and postcards, some illustrated, from Brodie; a poem by Brodie; a list of Brodie exhibitions; and a catalog for an exhibition at Durlacher Bros., 1955.
The collection measures 13.3 linear feet, dates from the 1880s-1997, and documents the life and varied career of Rudolph Schaeffer, artist, designer, teacher, writer, collector of Asian art, and pioneer in the field of color study who founded the Rudolph Schaeffer School of Design in San Francisco in 1926. The papers include biographical information, correspondence, subject files, writings, diaries, journals, artwork, scrapbooks, sound recordings, and photographs.
Correspondence documents Schaeffer's personal and professional activities as well as the Rudolph Schaeffer School of Design. Subject files contain various combinations of correspondence, photographs, printed material, and drawings reflecting Schaeffer's activities, projects, and interests. Within the subject files is correspondence with artists, including Mark Tobey. Extensive writings include manuscripts for published and unpublished articles and drafts, notes, and manuscripts of several unpublished books including Collected Lectures of Rudolph Schaeffer on Color and Design, Color and Design, Prismatic Color Theory, and Rhythmo-Chromatics, all undated. Diaries include a volume recording Schaeffer's 1936 trip to Japan. 42 volumes of journals, compiled between 1954 and 1987, contain entries on a wide range of subjects including lists of errands, invitation lists, class notes, drafts of letters, notes including staff assignments and staff meetings, autobiographical notes and reminiscences, and musings on religion and philosophy.
The Artwork series houses artwork by Schaeffer and his students. Found are hand-made Christmas cards, designs, sketches, and sketchbooks. Seven scrapbooks document Rudolph Schaeffer's career, his school and former students, and the San Francisco art scene. They contain printed material, photographs, letters, and a small amount of artwork. Volume 3 is devoted to East West Gallery, and volume 7 documents Rudolph Schaeffer's 90th Birthday and the 50th Anniversary of the Rudolph Schaeffer School of Design.
Most untranscribed sound recordings (audio cassettes and reels) are of lectures by Schaeffer and others delivered at the Rudolph Schaeffer School of Design.
Miscellaneous records includes a series of hand-baticked fabric samples from the Wiener Werkstatte, as well as transcripts of an oral history with Schaeffer and other interviews.
Printed material concerns the career of Rudolph Schaeffer, his school and former students, the San Francisco art scene, and general art topics. Included are articles and a book by Schaeffer, catalogs and other items produced by the Rudolph Schaeffer School of Design, and miscellaneous items about or mentioning Schaeffer and his school. Items of note are announcements of courses taught by Schaeffer in Piedmont and San Francisco prior to the opening of his school, and theatre programs from productions with sets and some costumes designed by Schaeffer in the early 1920s.
Photographs are of artwork, people, places, events, stage designs, and miscellaneous subjects. Artwork includes some designs by Rudolph Schaeffer; people include Schaeffer, his family, friends, and students. Of particular note are a photograph of Frank Lloyd Wright's visit to the Rudolph Schaeffer School of Design, and one of Rudolph Schaeffer and Imogen Cunningham. Places include interior and exterior views of the Rudolph Schaeffer School of Design at its St. Anne Street and Mariposa Street locations. Also included are photographs by Ansel Adams of the home of Ed and Caroline Fey.
This series includes educational records such as grammar school and high school graduation programs, a graduation speech, certificates issued by the Thomas Normal Training School, and a transcript of coursework completed at Central State Normal School.
Correspondence documents Schaeffer's personal life and career as well as the activities of the Rudolph Schaeffer School of Design. The earliest correspondence mainly concerns his educational background and early teaching experience, and includes letters of reference. Also included are many requests to lecture or serve on juries, letters from friends and former students, fan letters from readers of his magazine articles on flower arrangement, and correspondence relating to East West Gallery exhibitions, job prospects for students, and loans from the Rudolph Schaeffer Collection of Asian Art. Also included are correspondence between Schaeffer and Docili, long-time administrator of the Rudolph Schaeffer School of Design and exectutor of Rudolph Schaeffer's estate, as well as with Chiang Yee, Chinese poet, author, painter and calligrapher who would visit and lecture at the school when in San Francisco. Correspondence between Frances Valesco and others are from after Schaeffer's death.
Additional correspondence can be found in Series 3: Subject Files. Letters are also incorporated into the scrapbooks in Series 6, and some of Schaeffer's journals in Series 4 include drafts of outgoing letters.
Subject files contain various combinations of correspondence, photographs, printed material, and drawings reflecting Schaeffer's activities, projects, and interests.
Writings by Rudolph Schaeffer include manuscripts for published and unpublished articles and drafts, notes, and manuscripts of several unpublished books including Collected Lectures of Rudolph Schaeffer on Color and Design, Color and Design, Prismatic Color Theory, and Rhythmo-Chromatics, all undated. Diaries include a volume recording Schaeffer's 1936 trip to Japan. 42 volumes of journals, compiled between 1954 and 1987 become progressively more introspective and focused on the Rudolph Schaeffer School of Design. They contain entries on a wide range of subjects including lists of errands, invitation lists, class notes, drafts of letters, notes including staff assignments and staff meetings, autobiographical notes and reminiscences, and musings on religion and philosophy. Also extant are notes and texts for lectures and talks given at the Rudolph Schaeffer School of Design and many other venues, as well as notes on philosophy, color, and miscellaneous topics.
Oversized Volumes 2-3 housed in Box 15
Writings by other authors are about Rudolph Schaeffer and his school. Included are reminiscences of former students, student essays, transcripts of oral history interviews conducted with Schaeffer, and Doris A. McMillan's notes of classes attended at the Rudolph Schaeffer School of Design between 1923 and 1946.
Missing Title
Vol. 1: "Color and Form" with Rudolph Schaeffer
Vol. 2: "Color" with Rudolph Schaeffer
Vol. 3: "Color Notes" (from Light and Color by M. Luckish)
Vol. 4: "Design" with Rudolph Schaeffer; "Plastic Form" with Rudolph Schaeffer; "Dyes" with Miss Henry and Welland Lathrop
Vol. 5: "Plastic Form" with Rudolph Schaeffer; "Art in Public School" with Miss Lewis
Vol. 6: "Aesthetic Appreciation" with Rudolph Schaeffer
Vol. 7: "Flower Arrangement" with Rudolph Schaeffer; "Dyes and Application to Textiles" (research notes)
Vol. 8: "Round the Color Wheel with Rudolph Schaeffer"; "Costume Design" with Marie Leonard
Vol. 9: "Free Brush" with Rudolph Schaeffer; "Dimensional Design,"
Additional artwork, mainly drawings by Rudolph Schaeffer and others, is among the subject files (Series 3) and scrapbooks (Series 6).
Oversized material housed in Box 15
Artwork by others includes designs, probably by students including Enid Alpers, Mary A. Baird, and Margaret Paxton.
Scrapbooks consist of 7 volumes containing printed material, photographs, letters, and a small amount of artwork. They document Rudolph Schaeffer's career, his school and former students, and the San Francisco art scene. Two volumes are devoted to specific subjects: the East-West Gallery (vol. 3, 1950), Rudolph Schaeffer's 90th Birthday and the 50th Anniversary of Rudolph Schaeffer School of Design (vol. 7, 1976).
Oversized Volume 1 is housed in Box 14
Oversized volumes 4-6 housed in Box 14
Recordings consist of audio cassettes and reels, along with a small number of transcripts. Most recordings are lectures by Schaeffer and others delivered at the Rudolph Schaeffer School of Design. Other recordings include Rudolph Schaeffer playing the piano, and "Rudolph Schaeffer Day," a city-wide event in San Francisco commemorating Schaeffer's 100th birthday.
Unless otherwise noted, reels are 7".
Among the miscellaneous records are color samples for various Schaeffer projects and transcripts of various interviews conducted with Schaeffer and a meeting of the school staff. Guest books include those for Schaeffer's 99th and 100th birthday parties. Several matted Wiener Werkstätte fabric samples are also included.
Printed material concerns the career of Rudolph Schaeffer, his school and former students, the San Francisco art scene, and general art topics.
Additional printed material is included with Series 3: Subject Files and Series 6: Scrapbooks.
Material produced by Schaeffer consists of articles and a book.
This subseries includes items such as school catalogs, announcements and invitations.
Printed material found here is about or mentions Rudolph Schaeffer and his school. Items of note are announcements of courses taught by Schaeffer in Piedmont and San Francisco prior to the opening of his school, theatre programs from productions with sets and some costumes designed by Schaeffer in the early 1920s.
Additional photographs may be found in Series 3: Subject Files and Series 7: Scrapbooks.
Photographs are of artwork, people, places, events, stage designs, and miscellaneous subjects. Artwork includes some designs by Rudolph Schaeffer, many samples of student work in various media, and views of exhibition installations.
People portrayed here are mainly Rudolph Schaeffer, the Schaeffer family, friends and students. Of particular note are a photograph of Frank Lloyd Wright's visit to the Rudolph Schaeffer School of Design, and a photograph of Rudolph Schaeffer with Imogen Cunningham.
Places include interior and exterior views of the Rudolph Schaeffer School of Design at its St. Anne Street and Mariposa Street locations, travel pictures of Laguna Beach and Mt. Wilson, and unidentified buildings and landscapes.
Among the events depicted are an arts festival, an exhibition opening, a graduation and parties held at the Rudolph Schaeffer School of Design. Stage sets photographed were designed by Rudolph Schaeffer for productions in San Francisco and Detroit. Among the miscellaneous subjects are horses, Rudolph Schaeffer's collection of Asian art and his headstone in Clare, Michigan.
One photograph album contains views of the Rudolph Schaeffer School of Design on St. Anne Street, exhibition installations, selections from Rudolph Schaeffer's collection of Asian art, and student work. Another contains views of Schaeffer's garden at the Rudolph Schaeffer School of Design. The third album is a memorial album of images of Schaeffer.
Ca. 2,000 letters, including correspondence with family, bronze caster Bruno Bearzi, Carl and Olga Milles, curator Anne Hedmark (at Millesgarden in Stockholm), Clifford West, William McVey, Francis Rich, Herring Coe, Albert Christ-Janer, and others; business correspondence regarding his fountain at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, "Symbol of the Arts," and other projects; biographical sketch; catalogs; legal and financial papers; and miscellaneous printed materials.
Letters, some with sketches of bears, and other animals written to Evander and Grant B. Schley from Frederick S. Church. Also included are some photos of Church in his studio. (Microfilm title: Frederick Stuart Church Papers.)
Photographs, correspondence, appointment books, etchings, a scrapbook, printed materials, writings, and posters.
REEL D113: Primarily letters received from artists, 1940s-50s; background material for Ft.Lee and Amsterdam (N.Y.) murals; and miscellaneous printed material and photographs.
Correspondents include John Angel, Artists Equity, Peggy Bacon, Gifford Beal, Henry Billings, Isabel Bishop, Peter Blume, Louis Bouche, Van Wyck Brooks, Audrey Buller, Paul Cadmus, Alexander Calder, William Congdon, Horace T. Day, Olin Dows, Marcel Duchamp, Emlen P. Etting, Philip Evergood, Barry Faulkner, Ernest Fiene, Leon Hartl, Whitney F. Hoyt, William M. Ivins, Jr., Lincoln E. Kirstein, Leon Kroll, Yasuo Kuniyoshi, Edward Laning, Joseph L. Lasker, Clare Leighton, Charles W. Locke, Sanford B.D. Low, Luigi Lucioni, Reginald Marsh, Kenneth H. Miller, Nat'l Institute of Arts and Letters, Betty Parsons, Hugo Robus, Homer Saint-Gaudens, Katherine Schmidt, Ben Shahn, Charles Sheeler, Eugene Speicher, Theodoros Stamos, Franklin C. Watkins, Forbes and Nan Watson, and Leonard Weisgard.
REEL 847: Photographs, including 67 of Schnakenberg and friends, 1 of a portrait of him by Lloyd Goff, 95 of his oil paintings, 33 of his watercolors, 25 of his works in unidentified media, 29 of works by other artists, and 46 of pre-Columbian art from Central and South America. Among artists whose works are included are Antoine Louis Barye, Albert Bierstadt, Frederick Catherwood, Constantin Guys, Thomas Hardy, William Harnett, Winslow Homer, George Inness, Eastman Johnson, Yasuo Kuniyoshi, Reginald Marsh, Rockland Savery, Theodoros Stamos, and Arthur Fitzwilliam Tait.
REELS 850-853: Biographical information; personal and business correspondence; 17 diaries, mainly about Schnakenberg's travels, 1905-1960; appointment calendars, 1963-1969; 70 etchings by Schnakenberg; a scrapbook containing clippings, catalogs, and other printed material; a book published by G. Alan Chidsey on Schnakenberg; clippings, catalogs, and announcements; papers relating to gifts and acquisitions of works of art; receipts for Schnakenberg paintings from C.W. Kraushaar Galleries; a 650-page typescript for a book "The Background of Painting" by Schnakenberg; and drafts of speeches.
UNMICROFILMED: Six World War I posters designed by Schnakenberg; Christmas cards from artists and other friends; printed material; and a photograph of Lloyd Goff, inscribed to Schnakenberg, in front of one of his paintings, 1939.
Two silent 16mm films, approx. 8 min. each, one b/w and one color, documenting artists preparing for an exhibition at Park Place Gallery in New York, N.Y. Among the artists appearing in the films are: David von Schlegell, Robert Grovesnor, Mark di Suvero, Anthony Magar, Dean Fleming, and photographer Marty Topp. Titles of the films are "Park Place 1967" and "Magar Color"
The Terry Schoonhoven papers measure 0.4 linear feet and date from circa 1969 to 1980. The scattered papers document Schoonhoven's career in Los Angeles as a painter, printmaker, and muralist through writings, artwork and 10 sketchbooks, and photographs.
Writings by Terry Schoonhoven include an essay about the Los Angeles Fine Arts Squad. Artwork and Sketchbooks include 3 loose sketches and 10 bound sketchbooks. Many of the sketchbooks contain preliminary studies for murals, as well as measurements, lists, phone numbers, addresses, and writings. Also found within the sketchbooks are miscellaneous notes written to Schoonhoven by his wife, Sheila. Photographs depict installation views and works of art by Terry Schoonhoven.
Writings by Terry Schoonhoven include an essay about the Los Angeles Fine Arts Squad. Additional writings by Schoonhoven are found within the sketchbooks in series 2.
Artwork and sketchbooks include 3 loose sketches and 10 bound sketchbooks. Many of the sketchbooks contain preliminary studies for murals and other projects, as well as measurements, lists, phone numbers, addresses, and writings. Also found within the sketchbooks are miscellaneous notes written to Schoonhoven by his wife, Sheila.
Photographs depict installation views and works of art by Terry Schoonhoven.
Primarily research material compiled by Schriever for his work on art of the American West, Southwest and by American Indians. Included are papers relating to his efforts to publish writings and purchase work by Emil Bisttram.
Papers relating to Bisttram include: correspondence with Mayrion Bisttram; notes; typescript of Bisttram's "The Creative Process in the New Age" annotated by Schriever; lists of paintings to be reproduced; a clipping on Bisttram, 1984; a catalog for a Bisttram exhibition at the George Nix Gallery, Colorado Springs, Colo., 1973; and a color snapshot of a work by Bisttram.
ADDITION: Files of research material, primarily photocopies, on exhibitions and artists, containing clippings, catalogs, and some correspondence.
Biographical data; birth certificate; copyright certificates; professional and personal correspondence, 1923-1984; Federal Art Project file; photographs of Schreiber, friends and work; photo album of work; 2 oil self-portraits; sketches, chiefly of heads, and including anatomical studies; commercial drawings and related printed material; 18 notebooks with sketches and notes, mostly in German, on his theories of design and composition; a scrapbook of photographs and clippings of work; miscellaneous printed material, including copies of "The Pilgrim Story" with illustrations by Schreiber, "Mural Painting," a pamphlet prepared by him for the Civilian Conservation Corps, an illustrated catalog of the work of the architectural firm of Meyer and Mathieu, and obituaries.
Neely describes daily events in her life.
The scattered papers of New York painter and author Claudia Schwalb date from 1984-1996 and measure 0.2 linear feet. Papers include letters, artwork by Scwalb, a typescript of a writing including an interview with Alan Saret, photographs of individuals and works of art, negatives, and slides of artwork.
Artworks by Schwalb are mixed media works created with snapshots taken by Schwalb with an overlay of crayon on clear film. Correspondence concerns the publication of writings by Schwalb in Arts Magazine and includes letters from Barry Schwabsky and Hilton Kramer. Photographs include photography by Schwalb and slides of works of art. A writing entitled "Sculptural Alchemy" by Schwalb includes an interview with Alan Saret.
The papers of artist Susan Schwalb measure 19.3 linear feet and date from 1961 to 2014. The collection documents Schwalb's extensive practice in a few mediums, with the bulk related to the medium and history of silverpoint drawing. Included is correspondence, works of art, financial records, journals, and photographs.
Correspondence is with artists in the field of silverpoint drawing. Other correspondence includes holiday and birthday cards, often handmade and with substantive messages from friends, loved ones, and other artists. Schwalb is primarily active in Boston and New York City, and correspondents include artists such as Petah Coyne and Kay Turner.
Works of art include dozens of sketchbooks containing studies of line and form, which can be considered preparatory material for her finished works in silverpoint.
There is also extensive documentation of loans and sales with museums and galleries throughout the United States and include photographs or slides of the works, alongside price lists, invoices, and related correspondence with dealers and curators. There are also photographs of Schwalb's works installed in various exhibitions.
Journals and photographs created during residencies at Yaddo, MacDowell, and other well-known sites.
Letters from British artist Augustus John to his dealer, Stevenson Scott of Scott & Fowles, and related clippings. Included are three letters, 1929, discussing John's painting, "Chrysanthemum," which Scott had to send back to John before it could be included in his show in New York; one letter, 1942, referring to his portrait of Trelawney Dayrell-Reed, a British archaeologist, and a neighbor, and mentioning that his London studio was hit by a German land-mine; and a letter, 15 June 1943, describing having to interrupt work on the portrait of Queen Elizabeth (the Queen Mother), consort of King George VI, due to the blitzing of Buckingham Palace. Clippings include two reviews of a 1949 retrospective of Augustus John at Scott & Fowles; one review is by Henry McBride, writing for the New York Sun.
Letters from thirty artists to Sue Scott, Curator, Oklahoma Art Center, 1987-1988, concerning their work in the Westheimer Collection. This information was collected preparatory to an exhibition of the Westheimer Collection. Excerpts from the letters are used in exhibition catalog, a copy of which is included.
Correspondents include Karel Appel, Will Barnet, Gene Bavinger, Robert Beauchamp, Aaron Bohrod, Isabel Case Borgatta, Carolyn Brady, Roy Carruthers,Christin Couture, Rackstraw Downes, Don Eddy, John Fincher, Janet Fish, Rosalie Gwathmey, Paul Jenkins, Alex Katz, Josef Levi, David Levine, Jack Levine, Richard McLean, Ulisse Pagliari, Peter Paone, Philip Pearlstein, Joseph Raffael, Deborah Remington, Wade Reynolds, Larry Rivers, David Soyer, George Tooker, and Robert Vickrey.
The Robert Scull papers measure 2.2 linear feet and date from 1950 to circa 1984, with the bulk of the material dating from 1965 to 1970. Throughout the 1960s, Robert Scull was a wealthy and prominent art collector of Abstract, Pop, and Minimalist art whose collection included works by Michael Heizer, Jasper Johns, Robert Rauschenberg, and Andy Warhol, among others. His papers include fourteen annotated appointment books, correspondence, financial and legal records, printed material, and photographs. There is a 0.2 linear foot unprocessed addition to this collection donated in 2020 that includes black and white photographs (and 1 color photograph), snapshots, negatives and negative strips of family, friends artwork and artists; correspondence; and loan forms for works of art.
Fourteen appointment books include business dates, notes, and occasional sketches. Notes are on various subjects such as prices for paintings, appointments with art dealers, and visits with artists Mark di Suvero, Michael Heizer, Lucas Samaras, and others. There are sometimes items, i.e., business cards and receipts, interleaved between the pages of the books.
The bulk of the correspondence consists of letters to Robert Scull from various artists, such as Walter De Maria and Michael Heizer. There is limited correspondence with museums and galleries.
Financial and legal records mostly consist of invoices from art dealers to Robert Scull for his purchases of John Tweddle's artwork. Also included are art loan forms and charts tracking payments for various paintings and drawings. There are scattered legal papers on a settlement regarding payments for a group of paintings by Tweddle.
There is one exhibition catalog, Street Painters: Feelism (circa 1982), of printed material.
Photographs are of Robert Scull, friends, art dealers, artists, and art. Notable artists depicted include Alexander Calder, Gary Kuehn, Claes Oldenberg, Robert Rauschenberg, Andy Warhol, and many others. There are also images of sculptures, paintings, and other artwork by various artists.
There are 14 appointment books ranging from 1955 to 1973 that include business dates, daily entries, notes, and occasional sketches. Notes are on various subjects such as prices Scull paid for paintings; appointments with art dealers such as Richard Bellamy, Leo Castelli, Andre Emmerich, and Henry Geldzahler; and visits with artists such as Walter De Maria, Mark di Suvero, Michael Heizer, James Rosenquist, and Lucas Samaras. There are also scattered items interleaved between the pages of the appointment books, usually in the form of business cards, receipts, loose notes, and other miscellany.
Old check stubs in this folder have not been scanned.
Most of the correspondence consists of personal and professional letters to Robert Scull from various artists such as Walter De Maria, Mark di Suvero, and Michael Heizer discussing the art world, travels, projects, and patronage. There are a few scattered letters from Scull as well. There is some correspondence with museums and galleries on the subject of art loans and exhibitions.
Includes letters from Jessie Benton-Evans and Bill Crozier
Includes drawings and sketches
Includes a letter from Alfred Leslie
Financial and legal records mostly consist of bills and invoices from art dealers, usually Richard Bellamy, to Robert Scull for his purchases of John Tweddle's artwork. In addition, there are loan forms for Tweddle's art from museums and galleries, charts tracking payments for various paintings and drawings, and legal papers related to a settlement about payments for a group of 22 paintings by Tweddle.
There is one exhibition catalog, Street Painters: Feelism (circa 1982), in this series.
Photographs are of Robert Scull, friends, art dealers, artists, and artwork. Notable artists depicted include Alexander Calder, Walter De Maria, Gary Kuehn, Claes Oldenberg, Robert Rauschenberg, Lucas Samaras, Andy Warhol, and many others. There are also photographs of art displayed at Robert Scull's home in Warren, Connecticut, as well as images of sculptures, paintings, and other artwork.
Includes photographs of Alexander Calder, Walter De Maria (signed and annotated), Richard Smith, Andy Warhol, and unknown
Includes images of Michael Heizer and artwork displayed inside house
Ten letters; an inscribed Robert Vonnoh catalog; a photograph of a portrait of Seachrest by Daniel MacMorris; and a clipping. Correspondents include Gifford Beal, Frederick Carl Frieseke, Ernest Lawson, John Noble, Mary Mears, sister of artist Helen Farnsworth Mears, journalist William Allen White, and Kansas governor, Henry J. Allen.
Dorothy Dehner letters to Doris Seidler measure 12 items and date from 1978-1994. Included are six letters from Dehner to Seidler, one enclosing a photograph of Dehner and Smith. Also found is printed material relating to Seidler.
The papers of Don Seiler measure 3.0 linear feet and date from circa 1930 to 2020. The papers document Seiler's career as an artist through correspondence with family and friends; diaries containing recollections of his early life and time serving during World War II, and some recollections of Seiler by family and friends in the years following his death; and artwork consisting of sketches and sketchbooks.
Correspondence consists primarily of letters to family and friends, including Maria Seiler and Lance Seiler. Also included are letters to Ralph Knutsen and letters related to a book on OnaLand. Scattered among the correspondence are some photographs of sculptures and some sketches.
Diaries consist of some loose leaf diary entries and two diaries primarily written by Seiler but also including some recollections from friends and family. Some of the diaries contain entries in which Seiler reminisces on his time serving during World War II. Also included among the diaries is a biographical binder consisting of some correspondence, photographs of Seiler's artwork, documents related to Seiler's death, and some recollections on his life by friends.
Artwork consists of sketches and sketchbooks documenting Seiler's distinctive visual language for depicting human and animal figures. Included are preparatory sketches for significant public art projects including his statue of former NFL quarterback Y.A. Tittle sited at Atlantic High School in Port Orange, Florida and the statue of a swimmer commissioned by the International Swimming Hall of Fame to stand outside its Florida headquarters.
Correspondence consists primarily of letters to family and friends, including Maria Seiler and Lance Seiler. Also included are letters to Ralph Knutsen and letters related to the book on OnaLand. Scattered among the correspondence are some photographs of sculptures and some sketches.
Diaries consist of some loose leaf diary entries and two diaries primarily written by Seiler but also including some recollections from friends and family. Some of the diaries contain entries in which Seiler reminisces on his time serving during World War II. Also included among the diaries is a biographical binder consisting of some correspondence, photographs of Seiler's artwork, documents related to Seiler's death, and some recollections on his life by friends.
Artwork consists of sketches and sketchbooks documenting Seiler's distinctive visual language for depicting human and animal figures. Included are preparatory sketches for significant public art projects including his statue of former NFL quarterback Y.A. Tittle sited at Atlantic High School in Port Orange, Florida and the statue of a swimmer commissioned by the International Swimming Hall of Fame to stand outside its Florida headquarters.
The Jason Seley papers measure 3.0 linear feet and date from 1928 to 2003. The collection documents Seley's career as a sculptor through correspondence with family, colleagues, and art institutions; autobiographical notes, speeches, and other writings; records of an art residency program in Berlin and other professional activity files including sound recordings and a transcript of an interview; personal business records such as ledger books and estate papers; clippings, exhibition catalogs and other printed material; sketches; and photographs and slides of Seley and his sculptures.
Correspondence is with Seley's wife Clara, his brother Stephen, his friend Clive Crocker, and various friends, colleagues, and students concerning his family and art-related activities.
Writings consist of miscellaneous notes, autobiographical notes, lecture notes, and speeches.
Professional activity files include letters, printed material, and photographs related to Seley's work and projects. Also found are sound recordings which document a lecture Seley gave at Cornell on "Aspects of Modern Sculpture" (1967), a discussion between Seley and Jennings (1967), a tape catalog of the "Sound Show" (1969-1970), and Seley's memorial service in 1983.
Personal business records include five ledgers record expenses (1955-1967) and the estate papers for his Seley's wife, Clara Seley.
Also included is a xerox copy of Jason Seley's will.
Printed material includes clippings, exhibition announcements, catalogs, obituaries, and a memorial service program documenting Seley's life and career.
Art works consist of 166 drawings and sketches.
Photographic material, including approximately 1000 slides, shows Seley, his family, assistants working in the studio, and his artworks.
Commencement addresses delivered by Sepeshy at Cranbrook Academy of Art while serving as a faculty member and administrator; clippings; a curriculum vita; and an essay by Sepeshy on judging art.
Photographs used for the exhibit "Louis Lozowick, 1892-1973," held at Seton Hall University and curated by Barbara Kaufman. Included are 125 black and white mounted photographs of works of art; photographs, negatives, and transparencies of Lozowick and his work; a catalog of the exhibition; and two tape recordings of interviews of Lozowick conducted by Seton Hall students Matthew Piermatti, and Mary Ellen Balady.
A letter, October 4, 1958, from Edith Halpert, to the Archives of American Art New York Archivist, signed "Miss Smith". Halpert describes her general impressions of Shahn and writes that he was in "this morning when he brought in some new silkscreens". She also writes about Shahn asking her if she has seen the sets he did for a ballet in Spoleto.
Letters, writings, exhibition and symposium files regarding the career of Joe Shannon as an exhibition designer, painter, and curator. Letters are from R. B. Kitaj, Sandra Fisher, Abram Lerner, Avigdor Arikha, Francisco Alvarado-Juárez, Isabel McIlvain, Raphael Soyer and others. Writings include drafts of published and unpublished articles, lectures, and reviews by Shannon. Exhibition files regard exhibitions curated by Shannon including "Edwin Dickinson: Selected Landscapes," "R. B. Kitaj," and "Representation Abroad." Also included is a file concerning the symposium "Aspects of Realism," sponsored by La Napoule Art Foundation.
A photocopy of a letter, October 30, 1972, to Sharp from the painter Robert Osborn, declining her invitation to lecture but offering brief biographical information.
Correspondence with Jacques Lipchitz concerning the procurement of Lipchitz's sculpture, MIRACLE II, for the Shaarey Zedek Synagogue, in Southfield, Michigan; a letter from Shaye to H.D. Mott, Lipchitz's step-son and lawyer; and 2 undated photographs of MIRACLE II.
Brief note from Charles Sheeler to Frank Crowninshield stating that Sheeler read the proof of Crowninshield's piece that was to be published in Vogue. There is an Illegible note in pencil on reverse side.
A scrapbook of clippings, some relating to the center's founder, Pearl Carley, other printed material and photographs; a letter to member Margaret Patch; printed material, including exhibition announcements and an exhibition catalog of the Deerfield Valley Art Association; and 22 photographs of members, their works of art, and exhibitions.
The records of the Sheldon Ross Gallery, Birmingham, Michigan, measure 2.2 linear feet and are dated 1970-2007, with the bulk of materials dating from 1976-1995. The majority of the collection consists of artists' files. About half of the materials relate to Romare Bearden's work and his relationship with Sheldon Ross, the gallery owner. Also included are artists' files regarding George Grosz and Michigan artists. The contents of artists' files vary but generally include biographical information, printed materials and photographic images. The collection also contains correspondence, exhibition files, and photographs documenting the gallery's activities.
The gallery records document its exhibition history, exhibition reviews, sales of artwork, and Ross' significant projects. Also included are photographs and slides documenting much of the artwork exhibited. Materials relating to Romare Bearden include exhibition files, writings by and about Bearden and his artwork, and correspondence between Bearden and Ross during the years 1976-1989. There are many catalogs of Bearden's solo exhibitions at galleries, museums, and institutions, as well as exhibition reviews from newspapers and magazines, and images of Bearden's works.
The gallery exhibited other well-known artists including 20th century American artists and German Expressionists, notably George Grosz, who instructed Bearden at the Art Students League in New York. Found in the records are exhibition catalogues, price lists, inventory cards and artists' background materials. Also found is correspondence with museums, artists and clients, and slides and other photographic material of artwork offered by the gallery. Of note is correspondence between Sheldon Ross and the FBI concerning Ross' participation as an expert witness in a prosecution of individuals who were involved in Romare Bearden forgeries.
There are drawings of Sheldon Ross and The Sheldon Ross Galley by his son, Robert Ross. Photographs are of Sheldon Ross and Romare Bearden, Sheldon Ross with family and friends, and the predecessor gallery, Middle Earth Gallery.
Material concerning the Sheldon Ross Gallery history consists of newspaper clippings, press releases and mailings to clients. There also is a 1996 videotaped panel discussion at the Snug Harbor Cultural Center in Staten Island, New York in which Sheldon Ross discusses his role as an art dealer and collector. The Middle Earth Gallery folder consists of press releases and photographs of Sheldon Ross in the Gallery with local artists.
From Box 1, folder 2
Sheldon Ross Gallery correspondence includes letters between Sheldon Ross and the Whitney Museum concerning Ross' loan to the Museum of a work by Milton Avery and correspondence with galleries and collectors concerning sales of artwork. Special Agent Catherine Begley of the FBI corresponded with Ross regarding his participation as an expert witness in a prosecution for alleged forgery of Bearden's work. Also found are cards from friends and associates sent on the occasion of Sheldon Ross' 60th birthday.
This series includes various exhibition lists with prices and write-ups concerning artists such as Kaethe Kollwitz, Max Beckmann, Karl Staber, John Sloan and Oscar Bluemner.
The "Die Shaffenden" exhibition, held at the University of Manitoba, in Winnipeg, Canada, is documented by inventory cards and price lists, loan correspondence, and an exhibition announcement.
The artists' files comprise about half of the Sheldon Ross Gallery records and most of these materials concern Romare Bearden. Also featured are records relating to George Grosz and Michigan artists Sue Lindburg [Browse], Susan Hauptman, Ron Morosan, Leo Mardirosian, Caroline Court, Israel Kaplanski, Gordon Orears and Allie McGhee. The types and quantities of materials vary from one artist to another.
The Romare Bearden materials include correspondence between Romare Bearden and Sheldon Ross spanning almost twenty years as well as correspondence with publishing houses, other galleries, and museums. Biographical material includes a recording of a 1988 National Public Radio program entitled "Collage: From the Life and Art of Romare Bearden," a list of solo exhibitions from 1940-1980, and a selected bibliography concerning the artist and his work. Exhibition files include price lists, drafts of writings, correspondence, and some printed material. There also is a writing by Bearden, "Rectangular Structures in My Montage Paintings" as well as copies of essays about Bearden and his work.
Materials concerning George Grosz include newspaper clippings, price lists and exhibition catalogs in addition to many photographs of works. The Michigan artists file contains some biographical material, newspaper clippings, photographs of artworks, and sketches of "art awards" by an unidentified person.
Additional material concerning Michigan artists is found in a folder titled "Exhibition Lists" folder in Series 3, Exhibition Files.
Found are gallery exhibition reviews which appeared mostly in Detroit area newspapers. The exhibition announcements are both postcards and more elaborate materials, including some posters.
From Box 2, folder 5
This file contains two drawings by Sheldon Ross' son, Robert Ross; one is of the gallery and the other of Sheldon Ross in his gallery.
The core photographic material includes a collection of 35-mm color slides of artwork by Romare Bearden and George Grosz. There also are photographs of artwork, Sheldon Ross, and others involved in the galllery.
Oversized materials housed in OV 5
3 slide boxes
From Box 2, folder 6
The papers of sculptor Lily Shore measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1939 to 1976. Found is a resume and two portraits of Shore, photographs of works of art, and printed material. Of note is Shore's copy of a 1939 exhibition catalog of the United American Sculptors, signed by many artists.
Biographical materials include a curriculum vitae and two portraits of Lily Shore in her studio with sculpture. Additional photographs and slides are of Shore's sculpture. Printed materials include a clipping and exhibition catalogs for group and solo exhibitions. Of note is a catalog for the United American Sculptors exhibit (1939) in which Shore participated. Shore's copy of the catalog is signed by artists including Jose de Creeft, Helene Durant, Ernest Guteman, John Hovannes, Ben Karp, Josephine Levy, Charles Montalbano, Francois H. Rubitschung, Robert Russin, David Smith, Saverio Sulmonetti, Raymond Turner, and Mary Tuthill.
A scrapbook containing clippings concerning the design competition for the General Ulysses S. Grant Memorial in Washington, D.C. and the controversy that arose when Henry Merwin Shrady was awarded first prize; photographs of the Grant Memorial and other sculptures; and pencil studies by Shrady for several of the infantry figures on the pedestal of the statue.
An interview with Kenneth Callahan conducted 1965 by Howard Shuman in Seattle, Washington. Conducted for television station KOMO.
Two copy prints of the artist Maurice Sievan (1898-1981) taken by his wife, the photographer Lee Sievan (1907-1990) in 1946 and 1980.
The records of the Signa Gallery measure 1.4 linear feet and date from 1957 to 1963. The records document the history of the gallery through administrative files; correspondence; guestbooks, artist biographies, and photographs of Franz Kline paintings and exhibition opening; exhibition files for exhibitions at the gallery; insurance documents, ledgers, invoices, and other financial records; clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and other printed material.
Administrative files are comprised of a lease for the gallery and a certificate of incorporation for the gallery. Correspondence is between gallery managers Alfonso Ossorio, Elizabeth Parker, and John Little and other galleries, business associates, and artists, including Fritz Bultman, Philip Guston, and Jack Tworkov. Guestbooks and notes include a guestbook and an address book for the gallery, various artist biographies, and some miscellaneous notes. Also included are a file of photographs of exhibition openings, and a file of photographs of Franz Kline paintings.
Exhibitions and Lecture files are comprised of photographs, press material, and correspondence related to exhibitions at the gallery. Also included are a series of lectures and two untranscribed audio tape reels that accompany one of the lectures.
Financial material includes insurance documents, bank records such as checking accounts, invoices, consignments, and some ledgers.
Printed material is made up of newspaper clippings, exhibition announcements, and exhibition catalogs.
Administrative files are comprised of a lease for the gallery and a certificate of incorporation for the gallery. Correspondence is between gallery managers Alfonso Ossorio, Elizabeth Parker, and John Little and other galleries, business associates, and artists, including Fritz Bultman, Philip Guston, and Jack Tworkov. Guestbooks and notes include a guestbook and an address book for the gallery, various artist biographies, and some miscellaneous notes. Also included are a file of photographs of exhibition openings, and a file of photographs of Franz Kline paintings.
Exhibitions and Lecture files are comprised of photographs, press material, and correspondence related to exhibitions at the gallery. Also included are a series of lectures and two audio tape reels that accompany one of the lectures.
Tape reels are untranscribed.
Financial material includes insurance documents, bank records such as checking accounts, invoices, consignments, and some ledgers.
Printed material is made up of newspaper clippings, exhibition announcements, and exhibition catalogs.
8 letters received; 26 exhibition catalogs and announcements; 2 certificates of award; and 6 miscellaneous printed items.
Photographs and clippings.
Reel NDA 1: Photographs of marble panels for the Alameda County Courthouse in Oakland, California done for the Federal Art Project.
Reel NDA 3(frames 21-30): Newspaper clippings from San Francisco, Oakland and Los Angeles papers on Simpson's murals and mosaics, 1934 and 1958.[untitled on microfilm]
Four U-matic videos created for the Southwest Alternate Media Project, Houston, Tex. Videos include Singularly Aligned: Donald Roller Wilson, 1981, produced by Tom Sims; Little Mysteries of Life: A film on Sculptor Charles Pebworth, nd, produced by Tom Sims; Jim Love Up to Now, 1980, produced by Tom Sims and Laurie McDonald; Swamp Songs, nd, produced by Tom Sims. Swamp Songs focuses on sculptor Clyde Connell.
Papers compiled by Sizer in preparation for THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF JOHN TRUMBULL, PATRIOT-ARTIST, 1756-1843 (Yale University Press, 1953) including correspondence, catalogs, clippings, books, magazines, pamphlets, typescripts of lectures and broadcasts, notes and working papers, photostats, photographs and pictorial reproductions.
The papers of sculptor, videotape artist, and educator Jacqueline Skiles measure 0.7 linear feet and date from 1963 to 1980. The papers comment on Skiles's feminist activism and career as an educator and exhibiting artist. Found are biographical materials, correspondence, two photographs, printed material, professional files, and writings.
Biographical materials include an autobiographical sketch and resumes, ID cards, examples of printed materials designed by Skiles, and an ink drawing. Correspondence is with colleagues, friends, and family, including scattered letters from her parents and husband. Of note is correspondence with Arlene Raven about the Feminist Program at California Institute of the Arts and letters regarding the organization of a protest called "The Stars and Stripes Threaten the Peace." Two photographs depict Skiles at Syracuse University and the Creative Women's Collective, and are taken by L. E. Irvine and Barbara Williams, respectively. Printed materials include gathered material by Skiles regarding affirmative action and sexual discrimination as well as clippings and exhibition material concerning Skiles's career.
Professional files are found for some of Skiles's professional positions as an educator as well as for her work as an activist. Files may include administrative information, correspondence, notes, and printed material. Of note are papers relating to a discrimination complaint filed by Skiles against Ramapo College, New Jersey. General writings and notes are by Skiles and often concern feminism and the art world. Some writings may have been published in Art Worker's News.
Correspondence; exhibition and commission files, including price lists and drawings; business records, including monthly expenses and income, information on works sold, memberships, and supplies; diaries, describing daily appointments; sketchbooks; printed matter; and photographs.
The Caleb Arnold Slade papers measure 1.3 linear feet and date from 1909-2002. Included is professional and personal correspondence, writings, printed material, and photographs. Correspondence includes letters to Slade, ca. 1916-1926, mostly from magazine editors and publishers requesting images for reproduction, between Slade and his wife, Irene, ca. 1952-1964, and letter about Slade's paintings. Writings and notes regard Slade's work as a camouflage artist in 1917, and his studio. Additional writings are by Irene include "Care free Days in Tunis" and "Pulling the Shades" (about Hammamet in Tunisia), "One Way West," and poems. Printed material consists of exhibition catalogs, newspaper and magazine clippings about Slade. Photographs and slides are of Slade's works of art, his studio in Truro, Massachusetts, Irene and family, and portrait sitters. Also included is a portable paint box and two palettes.
Letters and sketch.
REEL 3472 (fr. 30-36): A crayon sketch by Sloan on Thanksgiving, Nov. 25, 1909, signed by other guests Mary Fanton Roberts, Robert and Marjorie Henri, John Butler Yeats, Dolly and Eleanor Sloan, and others.
REEL 3472 (fr. 37-42): Letter to William Woodward, June 24, 1935, soliciting money for the Artists and Writers Dinner Club, to help keep the club open to feed artists in need.
REEL 3472 (fr. 43-50): An illustrated letter to Mr. [John] Kraushaar, July 5, 1919, written from Omaha, Nebraska, en route to Santa Fe, N.M. He writes that he has done "so much setting still in the car, that I'll be glad to try the feel of a brush."
REEL 4391: A letter to "Nat & Estelle," written from New York. Sloan thanks them for their gift of fruit, comments on his etching as a respite from "painting problems which are so many!", the opening and small membership of the 17th annual exhibition of the Independents, and the negative reaction to Diego Rivera's "new Detroit murals," which Sloan finds "magnificent."
UNFILMED: A letter to an unidentified recipient, dated Feb. 1915. Sloan invites an order for some of his prints, and encloses a pamphlet listing prices and showing reproductions of several of his etchings.
The papers of art collector Mary-Leigh Smart measure 0.4 linear feet and date from 1963 to 1978. Found is correspondence with artists, friends, galleries, and institutions, and scattered printed material.
Correspondence is with artists, friends, galleries, institutions, and museums regarding the art scene in Maine and various exhibitions. Also found is a file on engraved name plates and printed material.
The James D. Smillie and Smillie family papers measure 5.6 linear feet and date from 1853 to 1957. The collection consists of the papers of four members of the Smillie family including James Smillie, his sons James David and George Henry Smillie, and George's wife, Helen 'Nellie' Jacobs Smillie. The majority of the papers are those of James D. Smillie, comprised of correspondence, forty-five daily diaries, a scrapbook, printed materials, and one etching. The papers of James Smillie consist of biographical materials and writings. The George Smillie papers include biographical materials, scattered correspondence, a scrapbook, printed materials, and photographs. The Helen Jacobs Smillie papers include correspondence and photographs. Also found are scattered materials relating to other family members, mostly the children of Helen Jacobs and George Smillie.
James David Smillie's papers consist of correspondence, personal business records, forty-five diaries, a scrapbook, and printed material. Correspondence is mostly professional in nature and includes letters from Albert Bierstadt, Frederick Stuart Church, Samuel Colman, Charles Henry Hart, Eastman Johnson, James Smillie, and A. T. Tait. Forty-five volumes of detailed daily diaries dating from 1865 until 1909 include entries about his work, but are exceedingly rich in references to over 200 artists with which Smillie was associated. Additionally, there are numerous loose documents, notes, and some photographs that were found tucked within the diaries. This finding aid includes a list of named artists referenced in the diaries along with the exact date of the notation. James D. Smillie's papers also include an original etching entitled Up the Hill.
James Smillie papers are scattered and include manuscript and draft copies of his published autobiography, A Pilgrimage, and memorabilia from his 50th wedding anniversary to Catherine Van Valkenburg Smillie.
George Henry Smillie papers contain biographical materials, scattered correspondence, a scrapbook of clippings, printed materials, and photographs. There is a certificate from the National Academy of Design dating from 1883 and photographs of Smillie, Smillie in his studio, and his family.
Helen Jacobs Smillie papers consist of family correspondence from her husband and parents, and studio portrait photographs.
Scattered papers from other family members include correspondence, a list of works of art by the family, a photograph album from Sheldon Smillie, and a portrait of William Smillie.
The James David Smillie papers consist of correspondence, personal business records, 45 daily diaries spanning 1865-1909, a scrapbook of clippings, printed materials, and artwork.
The bulk of this subseries is comprised of correspondence with artists and colleagues including Albert Bierstadt, Frederick Stuart Church, Samuel Coleman, Charles Henry Hart, and Eastman Johnson. There are three pieces of personal correspondence to his wife, Anna, and from his father and uncle, Charles Smillie.
Includes printed material from Tom Cobb for the Saratoga Humane Society.
Art Editor of the Evening Post, includes clippings.
Scattered business records include an agreement between Albert Bierstadt and James D. Smillie concerning the engraving of Forest Glen, donations, loans, and sales records, and a list of works in the Smillie collection.
There are forty-five volumes of daily diaries in which Smillie describes his paintings, drawings and prints, and references over 200 artists with whom he was acquainted. Loose items originally filed within the diaries include letters, notes, sketches, a silhouette, calling cards, receipts, printed material, and a photo of Smillie, among many other items.
See Appendix for a list of artists mentioned in the diaries from Series 1.3.
Photographs of James David Smillie and William J. Turrell.
The scrapbook contains clippings, publications with etchings, and reproductions of prints. Although not all are labeled, many of the clippings were written by or concern James D. Smillie.
Found are scattered printed materials including exhibition catalogs for James D. Smillie, clippings, reproductions of works of art, and miscellaneous art publications. Of note are advertisement circulars for engravings of Abraham Lincoln by William E. Marhsall and of President Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation Before the Cabinet by F. B. Carpenter. Also found is a publishing proposal for a work by Bierstadt.
Oversized material housed in Box 6, Folder 4
For Picture of the Rocky Mountains by Albert Bierstadt.
William E. Marshall's line engraving to Abraham Lincoln.
F. B. Carpenter's President Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation Before the Cabinet.
Oversized material housed in Box 6, Folder 4
Found is one etching by James D. Smillie entitled Up the Hill.
This series is comprised of writings and biographical material relating to James Smillie.
This subseries consists of memorabilia from James Smillie's and Catherine Van Valkenburg Smillie's 50th wedding anniversary in 1882 including an announcement, a poem to Catherine from James, a printed program, and a list of signatures of family members.
Found are copies of James Smillie's autobiography, A Pilgrimage, which includes an incomplete original copy written in James's hand, a photocopy of the complete original version, and a typescript.
The papers of George Henry Smillie include biographical material, correspondence, a scrapbook of clippings, printed materials, and portraits and snapshots of Smillie and his family.
Found is a biographical sketch, a business card from a company for which George worked, and membership certificates.
Oversized material housed in Box 6, Folder 1
The subseries consists of scattered correspondence between colleagues, friends, and family.
Postcard of painted sign for the Bread Loaf Inn, designed by George Smillie in 1904.
Secretary of American Art Association, announcing prize awarded to Smillie.
Found is a scrapbook of clippings mostly pertaining to or written by George Henry Smillie.
Found are clippings of articles written by George Smillie and reproductions of works of art.
Oversized material housed in Box 6, Folder 4
Found are portraits of George Smillie, Smillie in his studio, family portraits and snapshots including children, photographs of his home and studio at Ridgefield, and other unidentified houses.
Oversized material housed in Box 6, Folder 3
Likely the Smillie's Cohasset home.
Found are scattered correspondence and photographs.
Found are letters from Smille's mother, father, and husband, George H. Smillie.
Found are portraits of Helen Jacobs Smillie.
There are materials relating to other members of the Smillie Family, including the children of George and Helen Jacobs Smillie--Sheldon, Charles, Gordon, and William Smillie.
Found are two pieces of correspondence to Gordon Smillie and Charles Smillie.
Found is a list of works of art by Smillie family members.
Found is Sheldon Smillie's scrapbook of photographs that depict exteriors and interiors of homes in Cohassett and Westport Point; landscapes; works of art by George Smillie; family members; disasters and tragedies in New York City including the Windsor Hotel fire, a fire at the Pulitzer residence, and the collapse of a shore wall at the navy yard in Brooklyn; and weddings and other family events. There is also a portrait of William Smillie.
Photograph tucked into scrapbook.
The scattered papers of painter and educator Emily Guthrie Smith measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1941 to 1979. Found are biographical materials, correspondence, photographs of Smith with her art, and printed material.
Biographical materials include a biographical sketch, a resume, and hand-written price lists from a 1978 exhibition. Also found are two papers on Smith written by students Janne Goldbeck and Bill Boudra. Correspondence relates to Smith's career and is with institutions such as the Texas Fine Arts Association. Notable correspondents include Electra Waggoner Biggs and many of the letters are congratulatory notes to Smith concerning exhibitions. Photographs depict Emily Guthrie Smith with her art, including the Western Hills Hotel mural, and with others. Printed materials include exhibition announcements and catalogs.
The papers of painter Houghton Cranford Smith measure 2.2 linear feet and date from 1890-1991. They consist of eight scrapbooks compiled by his widow containing correspondence with family and friends, biographical materials, sketches, school work, extensive clippings, exhibition catalogs, travel documents and numerous photographs of family and friends.
Biographical materials include photographs of Smith, of his artwork and of friends and family in Provincetown and New Mexico, school documents from the Foebel Academy, the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn and the Art Students' League, autographed menus, correspondence, including postcards and letters to family and friends sent from Bermuda and Jamaica, customs declarations, exhibition catalogs, newspaper clippings, a passport to Chile, newsletters, and Smith's teaching contract from the University of Kansas. Additionally, there are significant photographs and letters documenting Smith's art studies with E. Ambrose Webster at the Cape Cod School of Art in Provincetown, Massachusetts.
The collection also includes Smith's correspondence from France and South America. A significant portion of the collection includes papers from his time in France from 1913-1914, where he studied at the Parisian art school Academie Julian. These include a log from a tandem bicycle trip with classmate Harold P. Browne, an invitation to the Bal Randolphe, a Browne Art Class brochure and a narrative entitled "A Party of Fugitives from France," which describes Smith's forced fleeing from France after the French mobilization in 1914. There are also papers describing his South American travels which include notes and correspondence about Argentina, Uruguay and his time in Chile, which spans five years.
Materials documenting Smith's return to France and studies at the Academie Ozenfant from 1926 to 1933 include Smith's passport, ship passenger lists and other travel documents, correspondence with family, French identification letters, exhibition catalogs, newspaper clippings and his Academie Ozenfant list of classes and student card. Of particular note are correspondence from and a picture of Sir Walter Kitchener, governor of Bermuda, and letters from wife Elena Peralta to her parents-in-law. Topics covered in the correspondence of this scrapbook include sons Houghton Jr. and Gerrit and the birth of daughter Florence, financial difficulties, art teachers Amadee Ozenfant and Andree L'hote and the family's travels to Bermuda, New Mexico and New York City.
Materials from later in Smith's life include correspondence from Smith to second wife Laura Gilbert Williams, exhibition catalogs and registers, photographs of artwork, newspaper clippings of reviews received for Smith's exhibited paintings and congratulatory letters from family and friends on Smith's successful exhibits and feature article in The American Artist. Additionally, there is significant correspondence with the Passedoit Gallery, Homer Saint-Gaudens of the Carnegie Institute regarding the exhibition and purchase of Smith's artwork and Smith's gifted painting to the Butler Institute of American Art. Additionally, there are several biographical newspaper articles and a biographical sketch written by his wife Laura after his death.
Of note is the artist's original handwritten notes and final published version of his reminiscence "The Provincetown I Remember," notes about painting with various colors and color charts, related assignments from Smith's Color Theory Class, a signed copy of the book Color by E. Ambrose Webster, Smith's former art teacher, pencil sketches, a class notebook about lettering and an address book.
This series contains materials from 1890-1991 and forms the bulk of the collection. The scrapbooks consist primarily of letters, photographs and memorabilia. Materials document Smith's travels and studies in France, New York, Bermuda, New Mexico, Jamaica and South America and include correspondence, photographs, travel documents, exhibition catalogs, newsletters, notes, sketches, student records and newspaper and magazine clippings. The arrangement of the material is generally chronological.
A large portion of this scrapbook focuses on the period of Smith's life spent studying art at the Cape Cod School of Art in Provincetown, Massachusetts. Included are photographs of his artwork, friends and family in Provincetown and New Mexico, Smith as a child and young man and his first wife. A high school transcript, commencement program and other school pamphlets, autographed menus, correspondence, including postcards and letters to family, customs declarations, exhibition catalogs, newspaper clippings, a passport to Chile, newsletters and Smith's teaching contract from the University of Kansas are also included. Postcards from his first wife, Elena Peralta, discuss the beginning of their relationship.
This scrapbook is mostly comprised of Smith's correspondence from France, particularly letters written to family and friends, in 1913 and 1914. Smith traveled to France in 1913 to attend the Academie Julian, a Parisian art school. The letters remark on his studies and life in France. Also included in this scrapbook is a log from a tandem bicycle trip with classmate Harold P. Browne, an invitation to the Bal Randolphe, a Browne Art Class brochure and a narrative entitled "A Party of Fugitives from France". This final document describes Smith's forced fleeing from France after the French mobilization in 1914.
This scrapbook include notes and correspondence about Smith's travels in South America and home in Chile. He left for South America from Brooklyn on October 19, 1916 with his "Uncle" Steve, a family friend. Smith writes at length about his train trip across Argentina to Los Andes, Chile and about his explorations of Los Andes, Puerto Varas and Santiago. He also writes about his financial difficulties and his artwork.
This scrapbook contains Smith's passport, ship passenger lists and other travel documents, correspondence with family, French identification letters, exhibition catalogs, newspaper clippings and Academie Ozenfant list of classes and student card. Of particular note are correspondence from and a picture of Sir Walter Kitchener, governor of Bermuda, and letters from Elena to her parents-in-law. Topics covered in the correspondence include family life with sons Houghton Jr. and Gerrit and the birth of daughter Florence, financial difficulties, his art studies and the family's travels. During this period the family moved from New York to France in 1926, traveled in Spain, returned to New York in 1928, traveled in both Bermuda and Spain for several months before returning to France and settling in Paris. Smith attended the Academie Ozenfant and studied under Andre L'hote and Amadee Ozenfant.
This scrapbook includes correspondence from Houghton to second wife Laura Gilbert Williams as well as their marriage certificate and passport papers for their honeymoon in Guatemala, sketches, exhibition catalogs, photographs, registers, correspondence and newspaper clippings of his wedding announcement and reviews received for his exhibited paintings. There are also congratulatory letters from family and friends about his successful exhibitions and significant correspondence with the Passedoit Gallery and Homer Saint-Gaudens of the Carnegie Institute regarding the exhibition and purchase of his artwork.
This scrapbook is comprised mostly of correspondence from later in his life as well as newspaper clippings and exhibition programs. There is an especially large section of correspondence from fans and friends congratulating him on his feature article in The American Artist. There are also a substantial number of newspaper articles and correspondence about Houghton's gifted painting to the Butler Institute of American Art. Of note are biographical newspaper articles and a biographical sketch written by his wife, after his death.
This scrapbook consists primarily of handwritten notes about painting with various colors and color charts from circa 1920s. Also included are related assignments from Smith's Color Theory Class and a signed copy of the book "Color" by E. Ambrose Webster, Smith's former art teacher.
This scrapbook contains materials from circa 1920s which include pencil sketches, mostly of nude figures, handwritten art class notes and a price list for Rembrandt oil and water colors.
Series II consists of writings from 1963 and 1991 which include Smith's handwritten manuscript and the published version of "The Provincetown I Remember". This memoir recalls the beginnings of the Provincetown artists' colony, c. 1908-1914. His family edited and published his recollections posthumously in conjunction with exhibitions of Smith's Provincetown paintings in New York and in Provincetown.
The material in the Printed Matter series dates from 1944-1992. It includes exhibition catalogues from the Carnegie Institute and posthumous exhibitions in Provincetown and at the Grace Borgenicht Gallery in New York. Magazine articles, including the June 1976 American Artist magazine that features Smith, reviews of a posthumous exhibition and several exhibition announcement booklets form a substantial part of this series.
The papers in series IV date from circa 1920s to 1977. These include an address book, nude sketches, a Bulletin from the University of Kansas, a class notebook on lettering, a photograph of Smith taken in 1977 and the etching "The Crucifixion" by Oscar Gieberich.
The papers of Boston and New Hampshire painter Joseph Lindon Smith date from 1647-1965, with the bulk of papers dating from 1873-1965, and measure 8.8 linear feet. Found within the papers are biographical materials; letters from family members, artists, museums, and art patrons; seven diaries by Smith and two by his wife Corinna, personal business records, notes and writings, files concerning charitable theatrical productions, one sketchbook and other art work, a scrapbook, printed material, photographs, and sound recordings of radio interviews and a radio program on Smith.
Scattered biographical material consists of family history documents for the Smith and Putnam families, a Jenkes family tree, and passports for Joseph Lindon Smith and his family.
Over three linear feet of letters are from family members, artists including Cecilia Beaux, Frank Benson, George DeForest Brush, and Denman Ross, museum staff concerned with work in Egypt, and art patrons including Isabella Stewart Gardner, and individuals involved with Smith's charitable pageants. There are scattered letters from Lawrence Alma-Tadema, Henry James, Charles G. Loring, Paul Manship, General John J. Pershing, John Singer Sargent, and Abbott Handerson Thayer. Among the subjects discussed are student life at the Académie Julian, the Smiths' travels, and individuals known by Smith.
Seven diaries written by Joseph Lindon Smith document his travels in Egypt, Persia, Europe, and New Mexico. Two diaries were written by Corinna Smith during her travels to Beiram and Egypt.
Personal business records business records include contracts, price lists, lists of securities, and miscellaneous receipts of the Smith and Putnam families, Joseph Lindon Smith, Corinna Smith, and their daughter Lois Smith.
Notes include engagement calendars, notebooks, lists of art work, lecture notes, minutes of meetings, notes on family history and on travel, and an autograph by Kit Carson. Writings include miscellaneous typescripts by the Smiths and others concerning travel, work in Egypt and elsewhere, and anecdotes about various friends and acquaintances. There are also three drafts of "Egypt - My Winter Home."
Theatrical production files concern plays, pageants, and masques written and/or produced by the Smiths. Many of the performances were benefits, dedication or anniversary celebrations, such as a pageant given at Fenway Court in honor of Isabella Stewart Gardner, a pageant at the dedication of a memorial to Abbott Handerson Thayer, and the centenary celebration of the founding of Amherst, Massachusetts.
Art work includes a sketchbook with extensive notes, a painting, drawings by Joseph Lindon Smith, and prints by other artists.
A scrapbook contains clippings and an exhibition catalog from the St. Botolph Club. Additional printed material includes clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, press releases, programs, booklets, brochures, and books by others.
Photographs are of Smith, his family, friends including classmates from the Académie Julian, Isabella Stewart Gardner, Abbott Handerson Thayer, exhibition installations, military camp sites from World War I, travel scenes, and art work by Smith.
Audio recordings consist of four sound disc recordings of interviews for WKNE Radio, Keene, New Hampshire, with Corinna Smith and Barry Faulkner talking about Smith, and a program about Smith and his book Tombs, Temples, and Ancient Art.
Biographical material consists of documents for both the Smith and Putnam family and for Joseph Lindon Smith and Corinna Putnam Smith, including certificates of birth, marriage, and military commissions, a Jenkes family tree, and passports for the Smiths.
Letters are primarily from family members, artists, museum staff concerned with work in Egypt, and art patrons involved with Smith's charitable pageants. Correspondents include Cecilia Beaux, Frank Benson, George DeForest Brush, Isabella Stewart Gardner, and Denman Ross. There are scattered letters from Lawrence Alma-Tadema, Henry James, Charles G. Loring, Paul Manship, General John J. Pershing, John Singer Sargent, and Abbott Handerson Thayer.
See Appendix for a list of correspondents in Series 2
There are seven diaries written by Joseph Lindon Smith and two by Corinna Smith during their travels in Egypt, Europe, and New Mexico.
Personal business records are found for both the Smith and Putnam families and for Joseph Lindon Smith, Corinna Smith, and their daughter Lois Smith. These include contracts, price lists, lists of securities, and miscellaneous receipts.
Notes and writings include engagement calendars, notebooks, lists of art work, lecture notes, minutes of meetings, notes on family history and travel, and numerous miscellaneous typescripts by the Smiths and others of essays and anecdotes about art, culture, travel, and many other topics. Also found are drafts for "Egypt - My Winter Home."
These files contain letters, notes, scripts, printed material, and photographs concerning plays, pageants, and masques written and/or produced by the Smiths for benefits, dedication, or anniversary celebrations. A notebook "Grandma Smith's Teatro Bambino" contains 2 photographs, a dedication ode by Thomas Wentworth Higginson, and a hand-written script.
Art work includes a sketchbook with extensive notes, a painting, drawings by Joseph Lindon Smith, and prints by other artists.
A scrapbook contains clippings and an exhibition catalog from the St. Botolph Club.
Printed material includes clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, press releases, programs, booklets, brochures, and books.
Photographs are of Smith, his family, friends, exhibition installations, scenes from World War I, travel scenes, and art work by Smith.
Audio recordings consist of radio interviews with Barry Faulkner and Corinna Lindon Smith, a radio program about Joseph Lindon Smith, and a fragment of an additional interview with Corinna Smith. Original recordings are on four sound discs, all of which were created at WKNE radio in Keene, NH.
Side 2 of this recording contains a 9-minute fragment of an interview with Corinna Smith conducted by Ted Sawyer.
Biographical material; correspondence; writings; photographs of Smith, friends and associates, classes at Woodstock, N.Y., and of Smith's works and the works of other artists; printed material, including clippings, exhibition catalogs, a few flyers and publications of Woodstock organizations; and miscellany. Among the correspondents are Louis Bouche, John F. Carlson, Anne Colman, Andrew Dasburg, Richard Diebenkorn, F. Valentine Dudensing, Jimmy Ernst, Ernest Fiene, Joseph W. Gies, Juliana Force, Frederic C. Knight, Yasuo Kuniyoshi, Henry Lee McFee, Pierre Montminy, Ad Reinhardt, Charles Rosen, Bradley Walker Tomlin, and Warren Wheelock.
Oral history interview with Ed Rossbach (37 p. transcript) and Katherine Westphal (49 p.) conducted by Paul J. Smith in preparation for the exhibition "The Ties That Bind: Fiber Art by Ed Rossbach and Katherine Westphal from the Daphne Farago Collection" sponsored by the Rhode Island School of Design, Museum of Art. (The exhibition was held at RISD, 17 October 1997-11 January 1998 and at the American Craft Museum, NYC, 25 June-6 September 1998.) Two exhibition catalogs are also included. Ed Rossbach's health problems at the time of the interview affected his ability to recall certain events.
The papers of sculptor, painter, and author Robert Smithson and sculptor, filmmaker, and earthworks artist Nancy Holt measure 18.9 linear feet and date from 1905 to 1987, with the bulk of the material dating from 1952 to 1987. Also included is Smithson's personal library of books, vinyl records, and magazine, measuring 48.4 linear feet. The papers consist of Smithson's biographical material; business and personal correspondence, much of it with artists; interview transcripts; extensive writings and project files; financial records; printed material; a scrapbook of clippings; holiday cards with original prints and sketches; photographic material; and artifacts. Also found are project files related to Nancy Holt's film Pine Barrens and her seminal environmental work of art Sun Tunnels, including a video documentary about Sun Tunnels.
Biographical material includes Robert Smithson's curriculum vitae, personal identification and medical documents, eight engagement/day planners Smithson and Holt maintained from 1966 to 1973, and Smithson's funeral register.
Correspondence is primarily with Smithson's family, friends, fellow artists, and business associates discussing personal relationships, proposed art projects, and exhibitions. Correspondents of note include Carl Andre, the Dwan Gallery (Virginia Dwan), Dan Graham, Will Insley, Ray Johnson, Gyorgy Kepes, Sol Lewitt, Lucy Lippard, and Dennis Wheeler. There is also substantial correspondence received by Holt upon Smithson's death in 1973, and between Holt and the Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art regarding Smithson's retrospective exhibition in 1982.
There are nine interview transcripts with Smithson discussing his works and his general philosophy on art, and one transcript of the Andrew Dickson White Museum's Earth Art Symposium (1969) featuring the following artists: Mike Hiezer, Dennis Oppenheim, Robert Smithson, Neil Jenney, Gunther Uecker, Jan Dibbets, Richard Long, and Hans Haacke.
Writings are substantial and include 73 drafts of published and unpublished essays by Smithson on art, artists, and works in progress. The series also includes poems by Smithson, six notebooks containing notes and sketches by Smithson, and drafts of writings sent to Smithson and Holt by friends and colleagues, including Carl Andre, Terry Atkinson, Dan Flavin, Dan Graham, and Jack Thibeau.
Project files contain correspondence, project instructions, diagrams and sketches, research materials, photographic material, and maps related to over 50 of Smithson's artworks. These include concepts, proposed projects, sculptures, non-sites, and earthwork projects, including Spiral Jetty, Broken Circle, and Spiral Hill.
Personal business records include gallery related loan arrangements and receipts for miscellaneous art supplies. Financial records include tax forms and preparation documents, including cancelled checks, receipts, statements, and related correspondence.
Printed materials include books, clippings, and periodicals related to Smithson, either containing writings or sketches by him, or containing articles reviewing his work. There are also exhibition announcements and catalogs of Smithson's group and solo shows from 1959 to 1985.
The scrapbook contains clippings of Smithson's published articles from 1966 to 1973 with annotated shorthand notes.
Artwork consists of Christmas cards collaged by Smithson, and sketches by Smithson and Leo Valledor.
Photographic materials include prints and negatives of Smithson with friends, promotional Hollywood movie stills, and original prints and copyprints of other artists' artwork.
Artifacts consist of a paper bag silkscreened with a Campbell's soup can (Warhol), promotional buttons (N.E. Thing Co.), various organic materials, and two art kits.
Nancy Holt's papers consist of correspondence, a grant application, printed materials, and project files and audio visual material related to her motion picture film Pine Barrens (1975) and her seminal environmental work of art Sun Tunnels (1975).
The series consists of Smithson's curriculum vitae, a list of favorite things, an Art Students League class evaluation, vaccination records, a passport, a wallet, and eight engagement/day planners Smithson and Holt maintained from 1966 to 1973. Miscellaneous materials include an article on Charles Smithson and a photocopy of the front page of the New York Herald Tribune on the day of Robert Smithson's birth. The series also includes a funeral register and an artist's statement prepared by three unidentified friends upon Smithson's death.
Includes calendars for 1966, 1967, and 1968
Correspondence is primarily with Smithson's family, friends, fellow artists, and business associates discussing personal relationships, proposed art projects, and exhibitions.
Family correspondence consists of letters from Smithson to Nancy Holt and postcards from Smithson and Holt to Smithson's parents, Susan and Irving. Smithson's postcards to his parents detail his travels to Europe and updates on life and work projects in the 1960s-1970s. Holt's postcards tto Susan Smithson describe her travel and projects in the 1970s-1980s.
General correspondence includes a handful of letters drafted by Smithson and Holt, with the bulk of the subseries comprising of letters from artists, art critics, collectors, museums, galleries, art organizations, universities, real estate brokers, and businesses.
There is correspondence of note from the Dwan Gallery (Virginia Dwan) and from artist friends Carl Andre, Dan Flavin, Konrad Fischer, Dan Graham, Peter Hutchinson, Will Insley, Ray Johnson, Gyorgy Kepes, Sol Lewitt, Lucy Lippard, Toby Mussman, Claes Oldenburg, Dennis Oppenheim, Robert Wade, and Dennis Wheeler. There is also substatial correspondence between Holt and Robert Hobbs regarding the Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art's retrospective Smithson exhibition in 1982.
Includes letters from Vito Acconci
Includes letters from Jo Baer, John Baldessari, Bernd and Hilla Becher, and Donald Burgy
Includes letters from Ted Castle, Rosemarie Castoro, Ron Cooper, and Bill Copley
Includes letters from Jan Dibbets, Herbert Distel, Peter Downsbrough, and Thomas Downing
Includes letters from Hamish Fulton
Includes letters from Hans Haacke, Tim Head, Doug Huebler, and Sam Hunter
Includes letter from Robert Indiana, and letters from Institute of Contemporary Art
Includes letters from Wolf Kahlen, Halasz Karoly, Kasper Konig, Bruce Kurtz, and Joseph Kosuth
Includes letters from Lallie Lloyd and Lee Lozano
Includes letters from Joe Masheck and Robert Morris
Includes letters from John Perreault and Larry Poons
Includes letters from Ed Ruscha
Includes letters from Harry Soviak, Petr Stembera, and Marjorie Strider
Includes letters from Paul Thek
Includes letters from Jan van der Marck
Includes letter from Mac Wells
Condolences consists of letters, cards, and notes of sympathy from family and friends addressed to Nancy Holt upon the death of Smithson.
This series includes nine interview transcripts with Robert Smithson. Topics include his general philosophy on art; contemporary art in relation to its historical context; non-sites, earthworks, entropy, space, and structures; the relationship between artists and dealers, museums, and collectors; and his most influential works, including Spiral Jetty, Broken Circle, and Spiral Hill.
The Alan Kaprow and Rodger Katan transcript (1966) focuses on the relationship between museums and contemporary art. The transcript with Dennis Wheeler (1969-1970) consists of 4 taped, informal sessions discussing Smithson's general philosophy on art, non-sites, and specific projects. In the Paul Toner transcript (1970), Smithson discusses earthworks, mirror displacements, non-sites, and art's historical context. The Gregorie Muller transcript [1971] focuses on the background and construction of Broken Circle and Spiral Hill. The Art Institute of Chicago transcript (1971) records Smithson's question and answer session with the audience after a showing of his films Swamp and Spiral Jetty. In the Bruce Kurtz transcript (1972), Smithson informally discusses artists' relationships with dealers, museums, and collectors; gallery art's general separation from nature; capitalism's influence and intersection with art; and his 1966 airport projects.
The Stella Russell (1973) transcript focuses on Spiral Jetty, Broken Circle, and Spiral Hill. In the Alison Sky transcript (1973), Smithson discusses his thoughts on entropy, the act of building, and its intersection with the architectural and engineering mechanics of structure. In Smithson's transcript with two unidentified students (1973), he discusses modernism and the branching off of developing contemporary art; public sculpture; historical context, theory, linguistics, and humanism; and thoughts on his own writings. The transcript with Moira Roth (1973) focuses on Duchamp and conceptual art.
There is also a full transcript of the Andrew Dickson White Museum's Earth Art Symposium (1969) with the following participating artists: Mike Hiezer, Dennis Oppenheim, Robert Smithson, Neil Jenney, Gunther Uecker, Jan Dibbets, Richard Long, and Hans Haacke.
Writings consist of drafts of published and unpublished essays by Smithson on art, artists, and works in progress. The series also includes poems by Smithson, six notebooks containing notes and sketches by Smithson, and drafts of writings sent to Smithson and Holt by friends and colleagues, including Carl Andre, Terry Atkinson, Dan Flavin, and Dan Graham.
Writings by Smithson consists of 73 handwritten and typescript outlines, essay drafts, and lectures Smithson wrote from the 1960s to 1973. The majority of these writings explore his thoughts on contemporary art and artists. Through the theoretical frameworks that incorporate history, linguistics, aesthetics, literature, and media studies, Smithson examines historical and contemporary art's evolving concepts of interpretation and meaning, and specifically, the effect capitalism, nature and the environment, minimalism, and conceptual absences were having on his own art.
Essays of note include "The Crystal Land" (1966), "Cultural Confinement" (ca. 1972), "Frederick Law Olmstead and the Dialectical Landscape," (ca. 1973), "Incidents of Mirror Travel in the Yucatan" (ca. 1969), and "See the Monuments of Passaic New Jersey" (1970).
The subseries also includes six notebooks that record project ideas, fragments of essays, and letter drafts; a series of 21 poems written by Smithson on Christian/religious themes; and miscellaneous handwritten and typescript notes on art and film. Notebooks I and VI include notes by Nancy Holt.
Writings by others includes unpublished draft versions of essays and fictional works sent to Smithson and Holt by friends, colleagues, and students of art criticism. Smithson is the topic of two personal reminiscences by Carl Andre and Jack Thibeau and seven academic essays examining his work and influence.
The scholarly essays include Janet Kardon's "Robert Smithson's Unrealized Projects," William Lipke's "Dialectics of Place: Some Reflections on Robert Smithson's Mirror Project," and Joseph Masheck's "Smithson's Earth: Notes and Retrievals." Though there is no attributed author of the essay "Non-Sites," the draft has been edited by Robert Smithson.
Other writings include two project proposals by Dan Graham, a project proposal by Terry Atkinson, writings and a speech by Dan Flavin, and a draft of "Idea Art" (1968) by Howard Junker.
Project files contain correspondence, project instructions, diagrams and sketches, research materials, photographic material, and maps related to over 50 of Smithson's artworks. These include concepts, proposed projects, sculptures, non-sites, and earthwork projects, including Spiral Jetty, Broken Circle, and Spiral Hill.
The series also includes miscellaneous textual and graphic research material collected by Smithson but unrelated to any specific art project.
Oversized material housed in Roll 29.
Oversized material digitized with Box 17, Folder 2
Oversized material digitized in Box 17, Folder 10.
Oversized material housed in OV 20, OVs 24 - 26, OV 36, RD 30, and RD 35
Oversized material from Box 5, F61
Personal business records include gallery related loan arrangements and receipts for miscellaneous art supplies.
Financial records include tax forms and preparation documents, including cancelled checks, receipts, statements, and related correspondence.
Printed materials include books, clippings, and periodicals related to Smithson, either containing writings or sketches by him, or containing articles reviewing his work. While some of the clippings review Smithson's exhibitions and work, the bulk of the clippings are on the general topics of contemporary art trends, earth art, and emerging artists.
Exhibition announcements and catalogs are of Smithson's group and solo shows from 1959 to 1985, and include the following concept exhibitions whose catalogs were issued in very limited numbers: One Month (organized by Seth Siegelaub, March 1969), Letters (organized by Philip Simkin, July 1969), Projects Class (Nova Scotia College of Art and Design, Fall 1969), and Exhibition 557,087 (organized by Lucy Lippard, 1969).
Other rare printed materials in the series include Vito Acconci's Transference: Roget's Thesaurus, Acconci's periodical 0 to 9 (#6, July 1969), and the avant-garde periodical Aspen (#8, 1970).
Also included are inventory lists of the published books, periodicals, and phonographs from Robert Smithson's library that have been transferred to off-site storage.
Oversized materials from Box 10, F6 and F16
Oversized material housed in RD 31
The scrapbook contains clippings of Smithson's published articles from 1966 to 1973 with annotated shorthand notes on album pages.
Artwork consists of Christmas cards collaged by Smithson, and sketches by Smithson and Leo Valledor.
Photographic materials include prints and negatives of Smithson with friends, promotional Hollywood movie stills, copyprints of other artists' artwork, and original photographs of artwork by Rosemarie Castoro, Michael Heizer, and N.E. Thing Co.
Artifacts consist of a paper bag silkscreened with a Campbell's soup can (Warhol), promotional buttons (N.E. Thing Co.), various organic materials, and two art kits. The Geometric Units for Logic Test kit consists of 17 geometric shape cutouts; the Gravity for Traveling I kit consists of over 15 samples of mixed materials, including foams, glass, fabrics, plastics, and metals.
Oversized material from Box 11, F32
The Nancy Holt papers consist of correspondence, a grant application, printed materials, and project files and material related to her motion picture film Pine Barrens (1975) and her seminal environmental work of art Sun Tunnels (1976). Pine Barrens original elements include a release print, outtakes, trims, and soundtrack, and paper records include footage logs and a detailed handwritten description of the film. There is a video documentary about the making of Sun Tunnels.
The papers of artist Kenneth Snelson measure 21.8 linear feet and date from 1947-2016. While primarily known for his sculptures incorporating the structural principle of tensegrity, Snelson was also a prolific photographer and forerunner of computer art. The collection document's the artist's life and work through chronological files, correspondence, project files, gallery and exhibition files, photographic material, and printed material.
Chronological files detail seven decades of personal and professional activities, beginning with Snelson's summers at Black Mountain College where he studied with Buckminster Fuller. Files contain a diverse array of material including personal photographs, photographs of artwork, printed material, correspondence, life documents, resumes, exhibition records, drawings and sketches, supply receipts, and professional files.
Correspondence in Series 2 is primarily with artists and friends. Notable correspondents include artists Buckminster Fuller, Anthony Hill, Todd Siler, and Shinkichi Tajiri.
Project files comprise nearly half of the collection and extensively document Snelson's sculptures, towers, atom model, computer art, patents, and cataloging and publishing projects. Files include a great deal of photographic material of artwork, models, and installations, as well as sketches, notes regarding specifications, material samples, supply receipts, invoices, and correspondence with dealers, contractors, institutions, and companies commissioning work.
Exhibition and gallery files document dozens of exhibitions and galleries that have represented Snelson over the years in the Unites States, Europe, and Japan. Items include correspondence, photographic material of artworks, installations, and openings, exhibitions lists, floorplans, shipping receipts, invoices, contracts, and printed material including exhibitions catalogs, announcements, and clippings.
Photographic material includes photographic prints, slides, negatives, contact sheets, and transparencies, as well as notes that Snelson kept about camera types and photographic processes. Although personal photographs are included here, the bulk of the material pertains to Snelson's fine art photography in which he experiments with panoramic photography and stereoscopic photography.
Printed material is predominantly comprised of exhibition catalogs, although a few articles and clippings are filed here as well.
Chronological files date from 1948-2015 and extensively document personal and professional activities over a seven decade period. Folders contain a great deal of personal photographs, photographs of artwork, printed material, and correspondence with friends, dealers, and curators. Other items found amongst the files include life documents, resumes, exhibition records, drawings and sketches, supply receipts, and professional files. Files from the late 1960s and early 1970s include many documents pertaining to Snelson's representation at Dwan Gallery. Files from the early 1970s and late 1980s include many letters and postcards from artist Carl Andre. Found throughout are frequent letters to his family while traveling, describing his daily activities, work, and challenges. Some folders contain copy prints and inventory lists created at a later date. Additional description of folder contents can be found at the file level. Correspondence is also found in Series 2.
Includes material relating to Black Mountain College
Includes photographic material of early artworks and Pendleton, Oregon
Includes photographic material of early artworks and Chicago Institute of Design
Includes photographic material from a 1951 trip to Europe
Includes documents pertaining to Snelson's work as a cameraman and trip to Hong Kong
Includes photographs from a Buckminster Fuller exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art in 1959
Includes documents pertaining to Tower of Light sculpture at the World's Fair
Includes photographs of Snelson's home in Sagaponack, New York
Includes a review of Snelson's work by Gregory Battcock for Arts Magazine
Includes material relating to Needle Tower construction in Bryant Park, New York
Includes blueprints for studio spaces
Includes day planners and calendars
Includes several letters from artist George Rickey
Includes loose pages of journal entries
Material pertains to Kyoto trip
Material pertains to Visual Artists Rights Act testimony
Material pertains to the Ars Electronica festival in Linz, Austria
Material pertains to Japan trip
Material pertains to the American Academy of Arts and Letters
Includes "Snelson discusses Joseph Albers at Black Mountain College: a Conversation with Fred Horowitz"
Includes material relating to a lifetime achievement award from the International Sculpture Center
Includes a copy of a 1972 interview with Snelson by Mary E. Harris regarding Black Mountain College
Includes material pertaining to a proposal for the World Trade Center Tower
The correspondence here dates from 1948-2009 and is primarily with artists and friends. Notable correspondents include artists Buckminster Fuller, Anthony Hill, Todd Siler, and Shinkichi Tajiri. Several letters from Tajiri are illustrated and include photographic material. Correspondence with Fuller also includes printed material, photographic material, and letters between Snelson and Fuller's estate. Some of the letters pertain to an ongoing intellectual property dispute that Snelson raises against Fuller. Also found here is a sequence of printed email correspondence, which Snelson organized by subject. Correspondence is also found in Series 1, 3, and 4.
Snelson's art teachers from Pendleton, Oregon
Project files date from 1947-2016 and comprise nearly half of the collection at 10.8 linear feet. Projects include Snelson's sculptures, towers, columns, atom model, computer pictures, patents, and cataloging and publishing projects. Files pertaining to the sculptures, towers, and columns contain a great deal of photographic material of the artwork, models, and installation. Also found are sketches, notes regarding specifications, material samples, supply receipts, invoices, and correspondence with dealers, contractors, institutions, and companies commissioning work. When known, the artwork's creation date is expressed in parentheses, while the expanded date range reflects Snelson's reworking, ongoing research, and documentation of certain projects over a period of years.
In Snelson's atom model project, he explores parallels between the atom and one of his work processes in which simple forms are combined to create more complex forms. His research led him to communicate with scientists and write several essays expanding on the idea of his atom model. Items found here include correspondence, writings, research, notes, printed material, and photographic material depicting his atom model. Snelson worked with this model for several decades.
Computer pictures document the artworks that Snelson created in the 1980s and 1990s using the Silicon Graphics 3130 computer and Wavefront software. Files contain correspondence, notes, and printed material pertaining to the computer and software program, as well as photographs and transparencies of dozens of artworks generated with the software.
Patents include drawings, correspondence, notes, writings, and documents related to the patent process for several inventions, including the atom model and the concept of tensegrity. Cataloging and publishing projects seek to document life events and bodies of work. Items include writings, correspondence with publishers, a chronology, and an inventory that incorporates thumbnail images.
Snelson's photography and panoramas can be found in Series 5.
Exhibition and gallery files date from 1963-2016 and document dozens of exhibitions and galleries that have represented Snelson over the years in the Unites States, Europe, and Japan. Items include correspondence, photographic material of artworks, installations, and openings, exhibitions lists, floorplans, shipping receipts, invoices, contracts, and printed material including exhibitions catalogs, announcements, and clippings.
Photographic material dates from 1951-2004 and includes photographic prints, slides, negatives, contact sheets, and transparencies, as well as notes that Snelson kept about camera types and photographic processes. Primary subjects include artwork, New York City, studio spaces, and travel destinations. Although personal photographs are included here, a bulk of the material pertains to Snelson's fine art photography in which he experiments with panoramic photography and stereoscopic photography. Snelson organized many photographs by the type of camera he used, which can be found under the "Camera Type" heading.
Printed material dates from 1960-2015 and is predominantly comprised of exhibition catalogs, although a few articles and clippings are filed here as well. The series also includes two issues of the International Journal of Space Structures and a collage portrait of Snelson by Sam Wiener.
Correspondence, bills, receipts, photographs, catalogs and a scrapbook of printed material relating to Snow and the Art Club of Philadelphia. The Art Club materials are official or semi-official and pertain to exhibits and committee meetings. Included are sale receipts for the Art Club gallery.
The papers of African American abstract painter Sylvia Snowden measure 1.7 linear feet and date from 1962 to 2017. The collection contains biographical material, including recorded interviews with Snowden, resumes and chronologies, and certificates; correspondence with galleries and museums including M. Hanks Gallery and the Corcoran Gallery of Art; material related to professional activities, including exhibitions and symposia, and related audiovisual and born-digital materials; printed material, including exhibition invitations, exhibition catalogs, calendars, clippings, and magazines; and a small amount of photographic material, as well as one sketch.
This series contains an address list; certificates; recorded interviews on VHS and a transcript of an interview with Sylvia Snowden that originally aired on NPR's All Things Considered; and copies of Snowden's resume and chronologies of her exhibitions.
Includes certificate from Académie de la Grande Chaumière and certificate of appreciation from the Anacostia Museum.
This series contains Snowden's correspondence with galleries and museums, including M. Hanks Gallery and the Corcoran Gallery of Art.
Includes correspondence related to Snowden's exhibition, Malik Farewell, Till We Meet Again. Also includes a list of artwork loaned to the Corcoran.
Also includes printed material.
Includes photocopies of works written by Wilson.
Also includes photocopy of guest book for Abstract in Black exhibition at School 33 Art Center.
Included in this series are materials related to Sylvia Snowden's exhibitions, speaking engagements, and fellowships. Also included are materials related to sale of her work and teaching at the University of the District of Columbia. Files may contain correspondence, contracts, invoices, printed material, and photographs. This series also includes audiovisual and born-digital material.
Includes application materials, as well as financial documentation for grant period.
Also includes correspondence and poster related to the California Institute Intercultural Arts Project visiting artist residency.
Includes material related to the creation of Sylvia Snowden's website.
One tape labeled "Malik Farewell Sylvia Snowden Corcoran Gallery." Unlabeled cassettes include one television segment about the exhibition and one other recording that appears to be at the gallery.
Also includes label from National Museum of Women in the Arts.
Includes price lists, list of selected exhibitions, and printed material. Portfolio discs contain artist statement, curriculam vitae, images, and a slideshow.
Includes personnel and payment forms; memos and correspondence; and academic calendar.
This series includes calendars, clippings, announcements and invitations to Sylvia Snowden exhibitions, exhibition catalogs, magazines, newsletters, and press releases.
Includes Skowhegan School of Painting & Sculpture bulletin, brochure, and alumni newsletter.
This small series includes photographs, negatives, and slides of Snowden's artwork and of an exhibition, likely Malik Farewell, Till We Meet Again. Also included is one unidentified sketch.
Photographs of guests viewing exhibition, likely Malik Farewell, Till We Meet Again.
Includes photographs, slides, and negatives.
List of prints sold from an exhibition of 100 prints shown at the Grand Central Art Galleries, New York City, January 10-28 by the Society of American Etchers.
5 books illustrated by Soglow; 3 photographs, including 2 of John Sloan's class at the Art Students League, New York City, and 1 of Soglow; 7 cartoons; and 2 drawings.
Correspondence, articles, sketches, glaze formulas, and materials charts.
An exhibition catalog from the Wildenstein Gallery and 48 photographs of Sorine's paintings.
The George Sorrels papers measure 2.0 linear feet and date from 1980-2005. Included is biographical material, correspondence, exhibition files, photographs, artwork, and printed material documenting George Sorrels' career as a painter.
Biographical information, letters received, exhibition catalogs and announcements, and clippings.
A panel discussion "Amatuerism in art" sponsored by Southern Illinois University in 1960, Carbondale, Illinois. Panel members speaking on the topic of amateurism in art are Paul Bulin, Sidney Geist, and Brandt McCue.
Consitution and by-laws; clippings; intermittent issues of the newsletter THE SCENE, 1969-1982; form letters; invitations; bulletins; a membership list, 1964; and exhibition catalogs.
The papers of realist painter Raphael Soyer date from 1933 to 1989 and measure 3.9 linear feet. They document Soyer's career as a painter, printmaker, and writer. Found within the papers are scattered biographical materials, including several transcripts of interviews with Soyer; extensive personal and professional correspondence; writings and notes by Soyer and others; scattered legal and financial records; exhibition materials, clippings and other printed material; and photographs of Soyer in his studio, with artists and friends, and at art events. Also found are one sketch and a facsimile of Soyer's 1968 sketchbook produced by Forum Gallery.
Biographical materials include award certificates, including a 1975 certificate from the National Academy of Design, lists of artwork by Soyer, and several transcripts of interviews with Raphael Soyer in which he discusses topics such as his career as an artist, artists in New York City, and the inspiration for his artwork.
Personal and professional correspondence is with numerous artists, writers, art historians, curators, gallery owners, arts organizations, museums, and universities. Correspondents include Lambro Ahlas, Rudolf Baranik, George Biddle, John Bratby, David Burliuk, Peter De Francia, Lloyd Goodrich, Joseph Hirsch, Joseph Hirshhorn, Edward Hopper, Joe Lasker, Henry Varnum Poor, Isaac Bashevis Singer, and many others. Additional correspondence is addressed to Reality magazine, for which Soyer was an editor.
Writings and notes by Soyer include several drafts and notes for his four published books A Painter's Pilgrimage (1962), Homage to Thomas Eakins (1966), Self-Revealment: a Memoir (1969), and Diary of an Artist (1977). Also by Soyer are draft essays, lectures, and articles - many about social realism. Writings by others include essays and articles by artists and art scholars sent to Soyer for review.
Scattered legal and financial records include bank statements, receipts, leases, and documents related to the publishing of his books. Printed material consists of exhibition catalogs and announcements, clippings, and other published items.
Photographs depict Soyer in his studio, with other artists and friends such as Chaim Gross, Edward Hopper, and Jose De Creeft, and at art events, and include a few photographs of his artwork. Also found are one pencil sketch and a facsimile of Soyer's 1968 sketchbook produced by Forum Gallery.
Scattered biographical documents about Raphael Soyer consist primarily of award certificates, including a 1975 certificate from the National Academy of Design, three lists of artwork by Soyer, and several transcripts of interviews with Raphael Soyer in which he discusses topics such as his career as an artist, artists in New York City, and the inspiration for his artwork. Interview transcripts are arranged alphabetically by interviewer.
Raphael Soyer's correspondence spans over forty years, with the bulk of it dating between 1960 and his death in 1987. Letters are arranged chronologically and the majority are incoming to Soyer, but there are also scattered drafts of outgoing letters. Soyer was friends with many artists and cultural figures, and his personal correspondence includes letters to and from artists such as Lambro Ahlas, Benny Andrews, Rudolf Baranik, Leonard Baskin, George Biddle, Peter Blume, Aaron Bohrod, John Bratby, Alex Brook, David Burliuk, Marc Chagall, Peter De Francia, Otto Dix, Guy Du Bois, Philip Evergood, Josef Herman, Joseph Hirsch, Edward Hopper, Jacob Kainen, R. B. Kitaj, Leon Kroll, Joe Lasker, Jack Levine, Jacques Lipchitz, Henry Varnum Poor, Fairfield Porter, Max Weber, and numerous others. Soyer also corresponded with many writers such as Erskine Caldwell, Allen Ginsberg, Marianne Moore, and Isaac Bashevis Singer.
Also found here is correspondence with the Forum Gallery which represented him and dealer Bella Fishko. There is also correspondence with numerous galleries, museums, and schools which exhibited his work or requested his work for potential exhibitions. Additionally, there is correspondence with students and publishers, mostly requests for him to lecture or write articles, and business correspondence on the sale, donation, or commission of his work. Soyer corresponded with many art historians and critics, curators, gallery owners, and collectors, such as Andrei Chegodaev, Lloyd Goodrich, Joseph Hirshhorn, Abram Lerner, and Carl Zigrosser, as well as arts and social organizations. The collection includes very little family correspondence. Some of the letters are in Russian.
See Appendix for a list of correspondents in Series 2.
Writings and notes by Soyer include several drafts and notes for his four published books as well as draft essays, lectures, and articles. Writings by others include essays and articles by artists and art scholars.
Among the writings and notes by Soyer are his writings about artists, primarily draft essays for articles and introductions of exhibition catalogs. Artists written about include Benny Andrews, Jacques Lipchitz, Alice Neel, and others. Additional writings by Soyer include drafts of book reviews, and drafts of articles, essays, and lectures about his life, his artwork, and the social realism art movement.
Also found are drafts, notes, typescripts, journals, and galley proofs for Soyer's four published books A Painter's Pilgrimage (1962), Homage to Thomas Eakins (1966), Self-Revealment: a Memoir (1969), and Diary of an Artist (1977). Also among the writings by Soyer are 13 of his engagement calendars and other miscellaneous notes.
Writings and notes by others include various draft typescripts of essays, articles, and one dissertation about various artists and art movements written by art scholars. Most of these essays appear to have been sent to Soyer for his review and opinion. Also found are a few short essays about Soyer. Additional items of note are draft articles written by artists for Reality magazine, for which Soyer was an editor.
Scattered legal and financial records include two account books, bank statements, receipts, and invoices. Documents related to the publishing of Soyer's books include contracts with the publishers and royalty statements. Additional items found here are consignment lists and loan agreements with art museums and galleries for the exhibition of his work.
Printed material consists of catalogs and announcements for exhibitions of Raphael Soyer's artwork and the artwork of others; numerous news clippings about Soyer, his exhibitions, publication of his books, and about realist painters; and a few articles written by Soyer. Other scattered items include brochures and press releases about art events, page proofs for Soyer's writings, and reproductions of his artwork. There are three issues of the journal Reality, of which Soyer was an editor.
Photographs depict Soyer painting portraits and drawing in his studio, with his wife Rebecca and with unidentified friends, with fellow artist Jose De Creeft after painting De Creeft's portrait, with his friend Isaac Bashevis Singer, and in the process of painting a portrait of Gross and his wife. Photographs of other artists include Chaim Gross, Edward Hopper, Joseph Floch, and Moses Soyer.
Also found are photographs of art events, including gallery receptions, many of which are unidentified and undated. Many of the photographs of gallery receptions depict Soyer with artists including Jose De Creeft, Chaim Gross, Rudolf Baranik, David Burliuk, R. B. Kitaj, Leon Kroll, Jacob Lawrence, Jack Levine, Reuben Nakian, Alice Neel, and others. Also found are a few photographs of Soyer's artwork and artwork by others.
Artwork found in this collection includes one undated pencil sketch by an unidentified artist and a facsimile of a 1968 sketchbook belonging to Raphael Soyer which documents his time traveling through Europe. This facsimile was produced by the Forum Gallery as a limited edition in 1968.
A resume; photographs; and printed material, including announcements and catalogs, reviews, and a book, NICHOLAS SPERAKIS - WOODCUTS (New York: Smyrna Press).
A U-matic videocassette recording of Carlos Villa's performance art at his farm in San Francisco, California, recorded by Lars Speyer. The recording includes rhythmic music and still frames, incorporating bones and elements from the farm as Villa applies paint to his body and rolls on a paper canvas. A man dressed in feathers and zebra patterned cloth resides over the performance.
The papers of artist, editor, and musician Diane Spodarek measure 3.6 linear feet and date from 1971 to 1990. The papers primarily document Spodarek's involvement with the publication Detroit Artists Monthly through administrative files, financial records, artist files, sound recordings and transcripts of interviews, sound recordings of performances, printed material, and photographic material.
Administrative files consist of some correspondence, articles of incorporation, certificates of good standing, copyright documentation, manuscripts for articles, and material related to the first Michigan Congress on the Arts. Also included are some "Dangerous Diane" vinyl records featuring Spodarek.
Financial records consist of a budget notebook, tax exemption documents, NEA Organization Grant records, and other grant material.
Artists files for artists including Brian Buczak, Jim Pallas, Tom Sherman, and Lucinda Devlin, consist of resumes, printed material, correspondence, and some photographs of artists featured in Detroit Artists Monthly.
Interview files consist primarily of sound recordings of interviews, interview transcripts, some correspondence, and printed material related to artists and performers used in monthly issues of Detroit Artists Monthly.
Printed material consists of press releases for gallery exhibitions featured in Detroit Artists Monthly, "Dangerous Diane" posters and flyers, and publication proofs for some issues of Detroit Artists Monthly.
Photographic material consists of photographs and slides of artwork, performances, and artists and individuals associated with Detroit Artists Monthly.
Administrative files consist of some correspondence, articles of incorporation, certificates of good standing, copyright documentation, manuscripts for articles, and material related to the first Michigan Congress on the Arts. Also included are some "Dangerous Diane" vinyl records featuring Spodarek
There are two copies of the record.
There are three copies of the record.
Series consists of a budget notebook, tax exemption documents, NEA Organization Grant records, and other grant material.
Artists files for artists including Brian Buczak, Jim Pallas, Tom Sherman, and Lucinda Devlin, consist of resumes, printed material, correspondence, and some photographs of artists featured in Detroit Artists Monthly.
Interview files consist primarily of sound recordings of interviews, interview transcripts, some correspondence, and printed material for artists and performers that were used in monthly issues of the Detroit Artists Monthly. Not every file contains a sound recording; some files contain only an interview transcript. Individuals interviewed include Al Herbert, Ray Johnson, Vito Acconci, John Orentlicher, Ken Friedman, Judy Rifka, Marcia Tucker, and Andy Warhol.
Writing on cassette is faded and hard to make out.
first name is illegible
Cassette says 1 of 2. Unclear whether this refers to the interview being on both sides of the cassette or spanning two cassettes. There is only one cassette in the collection.
Cassettes 3 and 4 may be a duplicate interview.
Name on cassette is illegible.
Case is labeled, "Ray Johnson 9-29-77"
Printed material consists of press releases for gallery exhibitions featured in Detroit Artists Monthly, "Dangerous Diane" posters and flyers, and publication proofs for some issues of Detroit Artists Monthly.
Photographic material consists of photographs and slides of artwork, performances, and artists and individuals associated with Detroit Artists Monthly.
The Clay Spohn papers measure 20.4 linear feet and date from circa 1862 to 1985 with the bulk of the material dating from 1890 to 1985. The collection consists of biographical material, correspondence, business records, notes and writings, artwork, printed material, and photographs reflecting the life and career of painter and educator Clay Spohn.
Part 1 includes sketchbooks with annotated drawings by Spohn, writings including reminiscences by Spohn, letters, clippings, and photographs of Spohn's artwork.
Part 2 includes biographical material; correspondence between Spohn and his colleagues; business records such as Spohn's general accounting records; Spohn's notes and writings on a variety of subjects; drawings and sketchbooks; printed material such as exhibition announcements and catalogs; and photographs of subjects such as Spohn, his family and colleagues, his house, and his artwork.
The three sketchbooks found here contain notes and annotated drawings made by Spohn during his stay in Paris. Sketchbook I contains a drawing of Hemingway's friend, Musgrave, at Le Dome, schematic drawings for a "portable studio," and notes about what to take to Giverny. Sketchbook II contains a self-portrait drawing and one drawing each of Musgrave and Duff Twisden, Hemingway's model for "Brett" in The Sun Also Rises, with whom Spohn became acquainted in the cafes of Paris. Sketchbook III contains designs for chairs and notes giving advice on art.
Writings consist of Spohn's reminiscences in the form of a 100-page letter to sculptor and art historian Mary Fuller McChesney. He answers questions about his career and describes, with words and drawings, his works for the exhibition The Museum of Unknown and Little Known Objects at the California School of Fine Arts in 1949.
Found here is a letter from Reginald Vaughn discussing the acquisition of Spohn's Los Gatos mural for the Morrison Center for Rehabilitation, a letter from the W.P.A. office concerning exhibitions, and three clippings. Also found are twelve photographs of artwork (primarily Spohn's murals) including: the mural The Legend of New Almaden; mural for a post office in Montebello, California; a mural for Castro Valley community center; a mural Fireman Save My Child for Volunteer Fire Department in Carmel, California; scale drawings of Benimino Bufano's proposed statue for Twin Peaks, San Francisco; and the lithograph Greek Legend.
Biographical material includes a variety of official documentation for Spohn and his parents. Documents concerning Spohn's parents include their marriage license. Documents concerning Spohn include his baptismal certificate, passport, the contents of two wallets, membership and identity cards, biographical sketches, two wills, and Spohn's death certificate. There is also a typescript biography of Spohn, "Life of a Painter," by David R. Beasley.
Correspondence is between Spohn and his colleagues, including two letters from Alexander Calder, eight letters from Mark Rothko, and twenty-eight letters from Clyfford Still.
See Appendix for an alphabetical list of correspondents from Series 2.2.
Reel 5461
Reel 5462
Reel 5463
Reel 5464
Reel 5465
Reel 5466
Reel 5467
Reel 5468
Reel 5469
Reel 5470
Business records primarily consist of Spohn's general accounting records, account books, banking records, contracts, inventories of artwork sold, records of support from the Lannan Foundation, records concerning Spohn's house in Taos, and miscellaneous receipts for healthcare, travel, art supplies, photographic services, and shipping. This subseries also includes documents concerning the companies managed by Spohn's father, John H. Spohn, and the patents and estate papers of Spohn's brother, John H. Spohn, Jr. These can be found at the beginning of the subseries.
This subseries contains miscellaneous notes and writings and includes 188 notebooks, address lists, a card file of book titles, Spohn's "Subject Location," "Index and Date," and "School of Visual Arts" files, and two typescripts by other writers. The miscellaneous notes and writings, and the notebooks, are concerned with various topics, often intermingled, such as teaching notes; lists of names, books, and groceries needed; financial records for art supplies; Spohn's thoughts on philosophy and art; dietary advice; annotated studies and calculations concerning the "trisection of an arbitrary angle"; notes for his unpublished literary work "The Book," (sometimes entitled "The Actual Book" or "The Truth Book"); and brief and incomplete drafts written either for writing class assignments or for "The Book."
Files on the School of Visual Arts contains class schedules, grade sheets, and 37 notebooks of class assignments, records of student grades, notes for lectures, lists of books for teaching, writings about teaching, and notes on art supplies for class.
Reel 5470
Reel 5471
Artwork consists of 557 drawings, including 27 undated drawings of Washington D.C., and 14 sketchbooks.
Printed material consists of clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs for Spohn and others, exhibition prospectuses, reproductions of artwork, calendars of events, programs, brochures, books, and miscellaneous printed material.
Photographs are of Spohn and his family, colleagues, studio, house in Taos, exhibition installations, and artwork. There are also photographs of San Francisco, including six views of damage done by the 1906 earthquake. Colleagues pictured in the photographs include Marion Karnes, Urban Neininger, Jeanne Reynal, Louis Ribak, Alfred Rogoway, and Maurice Sievan.
Photographs of artwork for projects by Spohn picture the following: an entrance hall mural for Officers Club, San Francisco (undated); a cartoon for copper repousee sculpture for Carmel, California, Volunteer Fire Department (1936); a cartoon for copper repousee sculpture for Castro Valley Community Center (1937); a mural for Montebello, California, post office (1938); and a mural for Los Gatos Union High School (1939).
Artifacts consist of four military pins from Marion Karnes.
The addition includes nine notebooks of notes and writings on art, class assignments, telephone calls and appointments, plans and procedures, an index for the history and location of paintings, and financial records.
The papers of San Francisco art patron and philanthropist Alma de Bretteville Spreckels measure 0.6 linear feet and date from 1920 to 1978. The collection focuses on Spreckels's founding of and service to the California Palace of the Legion of Honor and the Maryhill Museum of Fine Arts through correspondence, financial and legal records, meeting minutes, photographs, printed material, and registrarial records. Of note are Queen Marie of Romania's handwritten descriptions describing the provenance of her mementos and artifacts donated to the Maryhill Museum of Fine Arts.
Spreckels's professional correspondence include letters from Clifford Dolph, Loie Fuller, Walter Heil, Thomas Carr Howe, Malvina Hoffman, Harry Noyes Pratt, Lloyd LaPage Rollins, and Queen Marie of Romania. Financial and legal records contain price lists, insurance valuations, and agreements for Spreckels's donations and loans to museums and other institutions. Also found are records focusing on the formation and running of the California Palace of the Legion of Honor and the Maryhill Museum of Art. Included are meeting minutes and registrarial records which include lists of works of art, valuation records, and donation records. Photographs are of Queen Marie of Romania, her artifacts, and two photos of busts by Malvina Hoffman. Provenance records consist of handwritten and typescripts of Queen Marie's recollections and descriptions of each artifact donated.
Correspondence with Dorothy Miller and Juliana Force; a sketchbook, containing drawings in ink; photographs of Spruce's work; a book, entitled, Pecos to Rio Grande: Interpretations of Far West Texas by Eighteen Artists, 1983; exhibition catalogs; and newspaper and magazine clippings.
A letter of introduction for "Mr. Gordon" from Howard Chandler Christy; letters from READER MAGAZINE, WOMEN'S HOME COMPANION, THE AMERICAN MAGAZINE, and SCRIBNER'S MAGAZINE regarding illustrations; letters from the Society of Illustrators and the American Federation of Arts; a letter from Frank Schoonover regarding a memorial to Howard Pyle; a letter from Squires to George Dibble, art editor of the Salt Lake Tribune, tellng him of some experiences as an illustrator for LIFE and AMERICAN MAGAZINE in the early 1900s; an exhibition announcement, 1974; and an obituary.
Ca. 20 letters; exhibition catalogs and announcements; newspaper clippings; magazine articles; press releases; and 16 sketchbooks.
Correspondence, photographs, slides, sketches and sketchbooks, printed material, journals, and motion picture films.
REEL 2879: Two journals containing daily entries concerning Staley's work and family; ink sketches; photographs of his family, friends, and art work; clippings; and exhibition announcements.
REELS 2880-2882: Correspondence with Jack Boynton, Bob Camblin, and Dick Wray; exhibitions list, announcements, invitations, catalogs, and clippings; lecture notes; "B & E Productions" file; sketches and 9 sketchbooks; and ca. 75 photographs.
UNMICROFILMED: Ca. 300 slides of drawings, prints, paintings, ceramics, belts, planters, and weather vanes by Staley, Bob Camblin, and Joe Tate; films by Staley, "Smoked Links," "All the Signs from Houston to Galveston and Back," and "Staley Draws"; films by Roy Fridge, "Student Film," and "Cube Art"; films by Staley, Camblin and Tate, "BEJ I" and "Holding Firm II"; and unidentified film and tapes.
Note on can: Smoked Links I, Original Smoked Links Sound Bad 1969-1970. Note along side of can: Smoked Links I Original. Head leader University of St. Thomas Huemark: 2-9-70 2957.
45 Handwritten letters from Stamos to Diran Deckmejian mailed from Lefkada, Greece and Cologne, Germany. The letters chart Stamos' artistic career after he left the United States, particularly his gallery exhibitions in Germany and Greece. Early correspondence reference Stamos' on-going legal battle with the Rothko estate.
13 letters from Theodoros Stamos to James DiMartino mailed from Lefkada, Greece after Stamos left the United States. Letters reference gallery shows, travel plans as well as the ongoing legal battle with the Marc Rothko estate.
The papers of Theodoros Stamos measure 3.1 linear feet and date from circa 1922-2008. Stamos was a painter primarily associated with the first generation of Abstract Expressionists. Biographical materials, correspondence, writings, business and legal records, printed materials, and photographs document Stamos' career as a painter. Also included are materials relating to the Rothko estate controversy compiled by Stamos' sister, Georgianna Savas, as well as her papers concerning arrangements for Stamos' funeral and posthumous exhibition plans.
Biographical material includes birth and death certificates and interview transcripts. Personal correspondence is with friends and family; professional correspondence pertains to gallery transactions, including a falling out with gallery owner Louis K. Meisel. Among the printed materials are exhibition announcements and clippings of articles in English and Greek concerning his career and personal life. Photographs include views of family and friends, portraits of Stamos by Hans Namuth, Nina Leen and other photographers, as well as images of artwork by Stamos and other artists.
Biographical materials include birth and death certificates, membership cards, two address books with contact information for artists such as Willem de Kooning and Mark Rothko, and interview transcripts. There are three versions of the Stamos will, including the final draft in which he left the majority of his estate to his sister, Georgianna Savas. Also included are a VHS video cassette of Stamos' memorial service, memorabilia, and a plaque awarded posthumously by a Greek organization.
This series contains records of art sales made by Louis K. Meisel Gallery. Also found are a check book register and a receipt for canvas.
Correspondence documents business dealings with museums and galleries that represented Stamos. Also found are letters from E. W. Root, director of Black Mountain College and an early collector of Abstract Expressionist art, a collaged Christmas card from Helen Frankenthaler, and personal letters and notes.
Oversized material housed in box 5
from box 1, folders 12-18
Business and legal records include the estate and final tax records for Theodoros Stamos as well as petitions and legal documents regarding the disinterment of Mark Rothko from the Stamos burial plot in East Marion, NY.
This series contains an artist's statement and personal notes including price lists for works of art. Writings about Stamos by others include a chronology of Stamos' life through 1970, a 1960 interview with Lawrence Alloway for Art News and Review, and a documentary film proposal that include Stamos and his work.
This series contains artwork by Stamos such as line drawings, collages and small paintings. Also included are a handmade card and drawings by other artists, and illustrated rocks attributed to Stamos and gallery owner, Betty Parsons.
This series contains clippings and exhibition announcements in both English and Greek, relating to Stamos and his artwork, and to other Abstract Expressionists. Posthumous announcements were collected by Georgianna Savas and are mostly from shows of his work that she arranged. Some clippings concern the Rothko Estate controversy and the disinterment of Rothko's remains from Stamos' burial plot.
This series includes photographs of Stamos, his family, his homes and studios in New York and Greece, and works of art. Most photographs are unattributed, but photographs by Han Namuth, Lloyd Lozes Goff, Steven Trefonides and Diran Deckmejian (a former student at the Art Students League) are found along with a group photograph of the "Irascibles" taken by Nina Leen for Life magazine in 1950. Other photographs document Stamos late in life, his memorial service and grave dedication, and views of posthumous retrospective exhibitions.
oversized material housed in box 5
black and white
color
from box 2, folder 28
from box 2, folder 30
from box 2, folders 40, 42-46
from box 4, folder 6
This series contains Georgianna Savas' papers relating to her brother, Theodoros Stamos. Found are notes and correspondence about the handling of the Stamos estate and correspondence concerning the Stamos retrospective exhibition at the National Gallery of Greece organized by Savas. There is correspondence relating to the exhumation of the Rothko remains from the Stamos family plot in East Marion, New York and records concerning cleaning and conservation services for Stamos' painting. Condolence cards received by Savas after the death of her brother are also part of this series.
A letter from Stangle to his companion Betty Batchelor Miles, undated; eighteen photographs of Stangle, mostly taken in his Seattle, Washington studio; newspaper clippings and exhibition announcements and catalogs; and miscellany.
A brief biography of Stanley by George B. Catlin; 320 letters, 1830-1973, including personal correspondence, 1830-1872, between Stanley and his wife Alice English Stanley, and letters to Alice Stanley Acheson and the Bayles family, 1939-1973, about their grandfather, John Mix Stanley, and his paintings; a diary, undated, kept by Stanley for his fiancee on a trip home from San Francisco; a diary, 1853, kept by Alice Stanley containing her poems and writings; a sketchbook; newspaper clippings and articles; catalogs; 100 photographs of Stanley's paintings and 4 family photographs; and miscellany.
The Julian Stanczak papers measure 0.4 linear feet and date from 1938 to 2002. The collection documents Stanczak's life through a series of microfilmed scrapbooks containing printed materials, letters, photographs, and writings. Also included are professional material made up of video recordings documenting Stanczak's career and transcripts for a series of interviews conducted by Neil K. Rector with Stanczak.
Material consists of the transcripts of the "Communicating in A Different Way" interviews Neil K. Rector conducted with Stanczak. Also included are a four part video series associated with "Communicating in A Different Way" interviews and two videos on the works of Stanczak.
Tape 1 of a video series associated with "Communicating in A Different Way" interviews
Tape 2 of a video series associated with "Communicating in A Different Way" interviews
Tape 3 of a video series associated with "Communicating in A Different Way" interviews
Tape 4 of a video series associated with "Communicating in A Different Way" interviews
Three Scrapbooks loaned by Stanczak to the archives for microfilming. Materials present include correspondence, printed material, some writings by Stanczak, photographs, and biographical material such as awards. Also included is Stanczak's thesis presented at Yale University, "Spacial Relationships On the Two Dimensional Surface."
Letters, 1850-1910, biographical data, and miscellany pertaining to Stauffer's study of early American printmakers.
Writing to Stauffer are: W. Bruce Almon, Vistus Balch, Albert C. Bates, William A. Beardsley, Clarence S. Bement, J. W. Bothwell, Mrs. J. C. Bruen, William J. Campbell, John Bassett Chapin, Charles E. Clark, William W. Conway, Warren C. Crane, John J. Currier, Charles G. Darrach, Theodore L. De Vinne, Campbell Dodgson, Wilberforce Eames, John H. Edmonds, D. Edwin, Fanny J. Flagg, Edwin D. French, Robert Fridenberg, E. M. Gallaudet, Ernest L. Gay, Charles S. Giles, Walter Gilles, Charles W. Girsch, Charles E. Goodspeed, Samuel A. Green, Charles B. Hall, R. T. H. Halsey, Edward B. Hamlin, W. F. Hammersly, H. R. Harper, Charles H. Hart, Sumner Hazelwood, Henry W. Herbert, E. B. Holden, Samuel Hollyer, John W. Jordan, Charles Lanman, Charles Lanborn, R. H. Lawrence, Alexander Lawson, L. Lement, Emanuel Leutze, George E. Littlefield, Orleans Longacre, Benson John Lossing.
Also, Kate L. McNeely, Frank E. Marshall, James T. Mitchell, F. Moras, Jedediah Morse, Charles A. Munn, William Nelson, Dr. Charles L. Nichols, Frederick B. Nichols, Ourdan Family, Nathaniel Paine, Daniel Parrish, Jr., Howland D. Perrine, Harry Piers, A. Winthrop Pope, Thomas B. Read, Emil H. Richter, William Rollinson, William Sartain, Charles Schlecht, Stephen A. Schoff, Howard Sill, Denison R. Slade, C. A. Smith, F. Hopkinson Smith, Sidney L. Smith, J. Winfred Spenceley, Thackera Family, William Thornton, R. H. Tiebout, Henry T. Tuckerman, Frances K. Walter, A. Coolidge Warren, Frank W. Weitenkampf, and John P. Woodbury.
Snapshots depicting the Stavenitz's year in Asnieres, France. Photos depict: Stavenitz in front of a fruit and vegetable stand; Stavenitz leaning over a balcony; Burrage with her cousin at the market; Burrage and Stavenitz along the Seine; Burrage and Stavenitz seated at the dining room table; and Burrage and Stavenitz with their cat. Photographer unknown.
Correspondence with museums and art associations, relating to government and the arts, and general; clippings; exhibition data; biographical data; awards; jottings; and photographs.
Research material on Harry Varnum Poor compiled by Stearns for his unpublished manuscript "Henry Varnum Poor" (422 p.). Included are correspondence with friends, relatives, colleagues and owners of Poor's work, including Ann Poor, Bessie Breuer Poor, Raphael Soyer and Helen Hayes; notes and writings by family members; notes on interviews with Sidney Simon, Al Blaustein and Alex Katz, 1974, on Poor's diary and letters, and from tapes of Poor's lectures; clippings and exhibition catalogs, 1948-1975; photographs of Poor working on murals and of his works of art; and an undated cassette tape "Poor - Basic Lecture."
Two photographs of Stefanelli in his studio.
The papers of artist, printmaker, and educator J.L. Steg measure 1.6 linear feet and date from 1939 to 2017, with the bulk of the material from 1945 to 2002. The collection documents Steg's work as a professional artist and educator through biographical material, personal and professional correspondence, writings, interviews, personal business records, gallery and exhibition files, photographic material, printed material, and artwork.
Biographical material includes diplomas from high school and college, CV's, and documents related to Steg's time in the Army during World War II and his honorable discharge. Correspondence and printed materials reflect his involvement in arts organizations such as the International Society of Copier Art.
Files include exhibition checklists and artwork inventories. These are complemented by photographs and slides of artworks. Copier artworks and studies for copier-based works are also included in the papers, printed on paper and transparencies.
Records related to his teaching include correspondence and faculty reports from Tulane University and Newcomb College, where he spent over four decades as a professor of printmaking.
The records of the Los Angeles Stendahl Art Galleries measure 7.5 linear feet and date from 1907 to 1971. The collection is comprised of administrative and financial files, correspondence, exhibition files, and subject files on numerous artists, organizations, and other art-related topics. There is one scrapbook of clippings on the artist Edgar Payne.
Administrative and financial files concern advertising, publicity, consignments, inventory, purchases, sales, leases, and biographical information on Earl Stendahl.
The bulk of the correspondence is pre-World War II and is fairly extensive. It is with artists, organizations, collectors, art historians, and galleries. Signicant correspondents include Alexander Archipenko, Federico Beltran-Masses, Alexander Calder, Federico Cantú, Jean Charlot, Couvoisier Galleries, José de Creeft, Demotte Inc., Jerome Eddy, Lillian Genthe, Arthur Hill Gilbert, George B. Guthrie, Rockwell Kent, Louis Kronberg, Gisella Loeffler, Carlos Mérida, Isamu Noguchi, Walter Pach, Diego Rivera, Waler Elmer Schofield, David Alfaro Siquieros, Ladislas Szecsi, Wildenstein & Company, and many others.
Files are found for about ten exhibitions, including Etching and Engravings by the Old Masters (1921), Airview Paintings (1930), American Landscape Art (1930), Arts of New Guinea (1964), and for exhibitions of Emil Gelhaar, Wassily Kandinsky, Sydney Laurence, and Roberto Montenegro.
Subject files are found for numerous artists, art topics, galleries, and foundations. Most of the files consist of printed materials, but there is correspondence and additional primary source material found in files for Nicolai Ivanovich Feshin, the Thomas Gilcrease Foundation, Armin Hansen, Joseph Kleitsch, Aston Knight, José Clemente Orozco, Edgar Payne, Ralph M. Pearson, Pablo Picasso, William Ritschel, Diego Rivera, Ethel B. Rose, Guy Rose, Walter Elmer Schofield, David Alfaro Siquieros, Ladislas Szecsi, William Wendt, and Ignacio Zuloaga.
Files document advertising and publicity, consignments, inventory, purchases, sales, prices, lease agreements, and biographical information on Earl Stendahl.
The majority of correspondence is between Earl Stendahl and various artists and organizations regarding loans of artwork, sales and purchases, and artists' accounts. Correspondents include Alexander Archipenko, Federico Beltran-Masses, Federico Cantú, Jean Charlot, Couvoisier Galleries, Demotte Inc., Jerome Eddy, Lillian Genthe, Arthur Hill Gilbert, George B. Guthrie, Rockwell Kent, Carlos Mérida, Isamu Noguchi, and Ladislas Szecsi. Also, an illustrated letter from Gisella Loeffler to Stendahl can be found. Some files may include financial and printed material.
Files for exhibitions consist of correspondence, exhibition announcements and catalogs, price lists, artist statements, and exhibition schedules. Exhibitions include Etching and Engravings by the Old Masters (1921), Airview Paintings (1930), American Lanscape Art (1930), National Museums of France Atelier Works (1931), Arts of New Guinea (1964), and multiple exhibitions of French modern painters that included the works of Marc Chagall. Additionally, files for exhibitions of work by Emil Gelhaar, Wassily Kandinsky, Sydney Laurence, and Roberto Montenegro are in this series.
Files on artists, topics, and organizations of interest to Stendahl are largely made up of printed materials, but some notes, writings, financial material, and additional correspondence can be found in this series. Included are files for James Bordrero, Nicolai Ivanovich Feshin, Thomas Gilcrease Foundation, Armin Hansen, Joseph Kleitsch, Aston Knight, José Clemente Orozco, Ralph M. Pearson, Pablo Picasso, José Martinez Pinazo, William Ritschel, Diego Rivera, Ethel B. Rose, Guy Rose, Walter Elmer Schofield, David Alfaro Siquieros, Ladislas Szecsi, William Wendt, and Ignacio Zuloaga, and others. A scrapbook of clippings is included in files for Edgar Payne and painted designs are in files for Ralph M. Pearson.
Letters from Sterner to his first wife Marie Sterner, and one letter to their daughter, Olivia. Sterner mentions his visits to Rome, Brussels, Munich, and London, his work, and family events. Twenty-three of the letters are illustrated. (microfilm title: Marie Sterner letters)
The papers of Marie Sterner and the Marie Sterner Gallery measure 0.5 linear feet and date from circa 1910 to 1951. The collection contains exhibition catalogs and announcements, and two scrapbooks of clippings relating to Sterner's activities and work at her art gallery.
REEL D34: Material collected by Stevens, in answer to his requests for information for his projected book, "Autobiography of Modern Artists." Included are letters, notes, photographs, articles, exhibition announcements, clippings and biographical data. Included among the photos are Alson Clark, Leon Dabo, John Flanagan by Ording, Lillian Genth by Haeseler, H. Siddons Mowbray by Rockwood, and Adolf A. Weinman by De Witt Ward, ca. 1905-1910.
REEL 3472: A letter to Stevens, from Fernand Harvey Lungren, Jan. 9-15, 1911, describing his art background, his work in the Southwest, California, and the desert, and his hope to show Stevens his paintings in Toledo.
Letters, 1922-1949, from his daughter Janet, and from Robin Feild, director of Newcomb College School of Art, Kleemann Galleries in New York, fellow Newcomb art instructor Robert Scott, Curt Valentin, Van Dearing Perrine (an illustrated greeting card and letter), Josef Albers (unsigned), and museums, regarding exhibitions of Steven's work; price lists and shipping invoices regarding exhibitions; a statement by Stevens; two biographical accounts; two sketchbooks and 152 drawings of landscapes, marine life, and non-representational images; printed material, 1907-1950, including clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and a flier (1934) for the Stevens Summer School of Painting, and photographs, 1922-1923, of Stevens, colleagues, art classes, and exhibition installations.
Biographical information; correspondence; notes; printed material; sketchbooks; and photographs.
The Jack Stewart papers are dated 1926-2010 and measure 9.9 linear feet and 7.31 GB. A significant portion of the collection concerns Stewart's dissertation, "Subway Graffiti: An Aesthetic Study of Graffiti on the Subway" (New York University, 1989), related research, writings, and exhibitions on the subject. Biographical materials, correspondence, writings, printed and digital material, artwork, sketchbooks, and photographic materials document his career as a painter, muralist, designer, educator and administrator.
Biographical materials include a "Video Archive" in digital format, consisting mainly of Jack Stewart being interviewed on several occasions by Nancy Gold for her television show, "What It Takes." In addition to discussions about Stewart's career, the shows include examples of his paintings and murals along with views of him at work.
Correspondence mostly documents Stewart's artistic career and work as an educator and administrator; there is some personal correspondence, as well. Of particular note are letters to Rodman Townsend who commissioned a mural about the human brain; they discuss the details of the project and its evolution, brain research, and subsequent exhibitions of related paintings. Illustrated letters and greeting cards with original artwork are from Violet Baxter, Lorrie Goulet, Wolf Kahn, Clare Romano, Anthony Toney, and Sam Weiner. Herbert Brooks Walker sent several pieces of mail art and, while in Italy, collected graffiti information for Stewart. Letters Stewart wrote to his mother span decades; the best represented periods are the years he served in the U.S. Army and studied at Yale University.
Writings and notes consist of Stewart's dissertation ("Subway Graffiti: An Aesthetic Study of Graffiti on the Subway"), miscellaneous writings and notes, and art and architecture notebooks. Dissertation documentation includes the manuscript, drafts, and related records. Among the miscellaneous writings and notes - published and unpublished - are shorter pieces, articles, student papers, and teaching notes. Of particular interest are notes/instructions for a performance piece titled "Endless Subway," "Memories of Steffan Thomas" and "My Recollection of Charles Egan." Also found are minutes of Cooper Union adjunct faculty meetings (1965-1966), and reports written when provost of the Rhode Island School of Design. Art and architecture notebooks (5 volumes) were compiled while at Yale University.
Research files on graffiti contain many sound recordings and some transcripts of interviews with graffiti writers, voluminous lists of graffiti writers' names/tags, correspondence, notes, photographs, and a wide variety of printed material. Some of the material is in digital format. Stewart began collecting these materials as his interest in graffiti developed. They were used for his dissertation and material continued to be added after the dissertation was completed.
Printed material mentioning Stewart or containing reproductions of his work includes exhibition catalogs, posters, and newsletters.
Artwork by Jack Stewart consists of drawings, paintings, and one etching; also found are designs and plans for tables, murals, and other projects. Drawings include figure studies, heads, and landscapes; most are in pencil and some in ink. The small number of paintings are oil on canvas (removed from stretchers), and gouache on paper and board. Sketchbooks (44 volumes) contain mostly pencil drawings and sketches, and a few studies for paintings and murals. Two volumes include writings about travels and events; of particular interest are "Notes on Kline's funeral May 1962," "Visit to Roman Bronze Art Foundry," and "Notes on My Development."
Photographic materials consist mainly photographs, but also include digital images and 35-mm color slides. Images of Stewart include views of him with paintings and working in his studio. Identified individuals with whom he appears are: Regina Stewart (wife), Brandon Stewart (son), Lil Stewart (mother), Ninalee Craig, Irving Sandler, and students in Urbino, Italy. Photographs of artwork document murals such as Raw Material (composed of shirt labels), and Versailles Hotel in Miami Beach; among the paintings documented are State of the Union, Icons of Western Art and Revelation XVI-16 (both with keys to individuals portrayed). Exhibition openings and installations are shown in photographs, color slides, and video recordings. Also found are photographs of the World Trade Center site taken by Stewart in December 2001.
Stewart's 75th birthday celebration at The Broom Street Gallery is recorded on a videocassette (VHS) and also exists in digital format. Extensive information about family history, much of it compiled in the 1980s by Stewart's aunt and Travis Burns (nephew?) is included in "Lil: In Celebration of Lillie Ruth Hemperley Stewart's 99th Birthday, February 16, 2004" by Regina Stewart. Financial records consist of commissions and prices paid by decorators for mosaic murals, tables, and miscellaneous items. Legal documents include a birth certificate, U.S. Army honorable discharge papers; also found is certification of Stewart as an artist, allowing him to reside in his loft studio. The "Video Archive" in digital format includes several television interviews with Stewart that include many views and discussion of his work.
Correspondence largely documents Stewart's professional activities; some purely personal letters are included, as well. Among the correspondents are galleries and museums, clients, publishers, universities, professional organizations, family, and friends. Correspondence post-dating Stewart's lifetime concerns donations of artwork and publication of his writings.
All writings are by Jack Stewart. There are drafts, related correspondence, notes and photocredits, as well as the completed manuscript of his dissertation, "Subway Graffiti: An Aesthetic Study of Graffiti on the Subway System of New York City, 1970-1978" (New York University, 1989). Miscellaneous writings and notes, published and unpublished, include shorter pieces, articles, student papers, and teaching notes. Of particular interest are notes/instructions for a performance piece titled "Endless Subway," "Memories of Steffan Thomas" and "My Recollections of Charles Egan." Also found are minutes of Cooper Union adjunct faculty meetings, and reports written when Stewart was Provost of the Rhode Island School of Design. Art and architecture notebooks were compiled while Stewart was a student at Yale.
A high percentage of the items are dated circa 1975-1988, the years when Stewart was a graduate student at New York University. Items continued to be added after his dissertation was completed. Material added after 2004 largely concerns posthumously published writings. On occasion, these files have been referred to and possibly cited as Jack Stewart's "Mass Transit Art Graffiti collection."
Published posthumously, Graffiti Kings: New York Mass Transit Art in the 1970s by Jack Stewart was based on his dissertation. Of particular note are the interviews (on 30 sound cassettes, 3 sound tape reels, and in digital format), transcripts, lengthy lists of graffiti writers' names/"tags," and Profile of a Common Offender compiled by the New York City Police Department. Interviews consist mainly of graffiti writers looking at slides and identifying graffiti and their writers. Also found in an interview with an official of the New York City Transit Authority. Many of the recordings have transcripts. Some of the transcripts identify slides that were being viewed during the conversation. Other transcripts do not appear to have recordings associated with them in the collection. Some transcripts are handwritten, some are typewritten, and others are simply notes from conversations. Where transcripts have been identified as directly documenting recordings in the collection it is noted in the folder listing.
Also among the research files on graffiti is a copy of the first known instance of graffiti appearing in advertising - a Volvo ad showing the car parked in front of a graffiti covered wall.
The miscellaneous items are the catalog of a silent auction and lecture announcements. Posters are for events sponsored by Cooper Union's Art Department and exhibitions. The Ocean Grove Memorial Day Weekend Art Event was an annual affair organized by Stewart for more than a decade.
Oversized Posters from Box 8, Folder 22 housed in OV 12
Oversized Reproductions of Artwork by Stewart - Designs and Plans housed in Box 11 and OV 13
This series consists of two scrapbooks, both containing mixed materials. "Anatomy of a Commissioned Work" includes articles and notes about brain function, a price list for 1990 exhibition of Anodyne: The Brain Painting at The Broome Street Galley, and excerpts from Stewart's correspondence with Rodman Townsend that were included in the exhibition.
This series consists of designs and plans, drawings, paintings, and an etching by Jack Stewart.
Sketchbooks (44 volumes) contain drawings and sketches in pencil and ink. Among the subjects are: travel sketches from Hong Kong, China, and Greece; heads and a portrait of Stewart's mother; 10th Annual Ocean Grove Memorial Day Art Event; and many studies of sheep made for the Cluett Mural commission. Two volumes include writings. Of particular interest are notes on Franz Kline's funeral, May 1962.
Photographs, digital images, and 35-mm color slides are of Stewart and other individuals, his artwork, and miscellaneous subjects. The exhibition openings and installations documented are: Grippi-Waddell Gallery (1964); Blue Hill Cultural Center, Pearl River, NY (1986); and "Anodyne: The Brain Painting" at The Broome Street Gallery (1990) and New York Hall of Science (2003); and a retrospective exhibition at the Ogden Museum of Southern Art.
The papers of Ary Stillman measure 0.4 linear feet and date from 1924 to 1983. The papers document his career as a painter through reminiscences, a diary, and other writings on art; a video recorded conversation with Frances Stillman on her husband Ary, a documentary on Stillman's art career, correspondence, a file of photographs of artwork, list of artwork, and other professional activity; clippings, exhibition catalogs, and other printed material.
Writings include reminiscences by Stillman, a diary of his travels in Europe in 1952, writings on art, and articles on Stillman by others.
Professional material includes a biographical outline, a file of correspondence, a file of photographs of Stillman's artwork, a list of of artwork, a video documentary of Stillman's art career, and a video conversation with Frances Stillman on her husband, Ary.
This video recording is a duplicate of an original produced in 1969.
Printed material includes clippings, exhibition catalogs, and a xerox copy of a chapter on Stillman for Jacometti's book "Tetes De Montparnasse"
The scattered papers of sculptor and designer Marguerite Stix measure 0.4 linear feet and date from 1971 to 1974. Found are a list of works held in museums and institutions and five notebooks including scattered diary entries, designs for jewelry, and notes.
Found is a list of institutions and museums owning works by Stix and 5 letterpress notebooks. The notebooks date from 1971-1974 and include intermittent daily entries, notes, instructions for craftsmen, and sketches of jewelry designs.
A resume; articles, 1969, written by Stoker; clippings; and exhibition announcements and catalogs.
Résumé; letter from Richard Van Wingerden with photo of him with his work, 1969; a document of service from the Federal Art Project, 1937; exhibition announcements (1939-1990); reproductions; clippings (1958-1990); an award certificate, 1963; photographs of Stone and slides of her work; a sound recording on cassette, Oct.1994, between Stone and her daughter Ramie Streng (90 min.) in which Stone recalls working on the Federal Art Project in New York City; and a VHS video recording related to a 1997 exhibition in Ashland, Oregon.
The papers of conservator and museum director George Leslie Stout measure 6.4 linear feet and date from 1855, 1897-1978. Stout was head of the conservation department at Harvard University's Fogg Art Museum, director of the Worcester Art Museum and Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Massachusetts, and a member of the Monuments, Fine Art and Archives (MFAA) Section of the U.S. Army during World War II. The bulk of the collection consists of correspondence with family, friends, colleagues and professional associations. There are letters from fellow Monuments Men who served in the MFAA section such as Thomas Carr Howe, Ardelia Hall, Lamont Moore, Theodore Sizer, Langdon Warner and several other prominent arts administrators. The papers also contain biographical materials, writings, sketches and one sketchbook, military records, printed materials, and photographs.
There is a 0.2 linear foot addition to this collection acquired in 2020 that includes four diaries, 1944-1946, kept by George Stout as a member of the Monuments, Fine Arts and Archives Section (MFAA) of the U.S. Army (known as the Monuments Men). The diaries describe Stout's experiences surveying war-caused damages in France, Germany, and Japan, and the recovery of Nazi impounded art works. Also included is a hand-made booklet that includes a "Glossary of Cha-no-yu Terms," which consists of quotes about Japanese art and tea drinking.
Biographical materials include college and graduate school transcripts, various certificates, four small appointment books and passports.
Correspondence is between George Leslie Stout and family, friends, colleagues, professional associations and fellow Monuments Men. Family correspondence is with Stout's immediate and extended family, the bulk of which is from Stout to his wife Margaret and his son Thomas. Correspondents in the Monuments Men correspondence include Thomas Carr Howe, Ardelia Hall, Lamont Moore, Theodore Sizer, Langdon Warner, and many others. There is also substantial correspondence with friends and professional colleagues in the museum and art world, such as Walter Beck, Richard D. Buck, William George Constable, Earl of Crawford, George Peabody Gardner, Jr., William Ivins, Jr., Henri Marceau, and Paul Sachs, among many others.
Writings by Stout consist of typescript drafts and published articles, speeches, and miscellaneous notes. Most of the writings concern art conservation and the speeches are memorials for two of Stout's colleagues. Notes consists of drafts for the texts of holiday cards Stout designed, biographical notes, and images and captions for The Care of Pictures. There are also three conference papers on art conservation written by other people.
Subject files document Stout's conservation projects as a consultant for museums, universities, galleries and other organizations. Also found in this series are documents relating to Stout's work after retiring from the Isabella Gardner Museum and his membership or participation in various arts programs and organizations.
A separate series contains files relating to Stout's World War II service in the Monuments, Fine Arts & Archives (MFAA) Section. Found here are official military records, publications by Monuments Men, and a few scattered photographs. Military records include directives, reports, certificates and a bronze star medal. There are articles and books written by various Monuments Men such as Langdon Warner, Lincoln Kirstein and Theodore Sizer. There are also scattered photographs, only two of which depict tout (including one group photograph with Lamont Moore, Walker Hancock and other Monuments Men.) There are also 12 negatives with 4 prints depicting La Gleize Church and the town of Ambleve, Belgium in 1945. There are also four diaries documenting Stout's experiences in the MFAA Section in Europe and Japan from 1944-1946.
Personal business records include assorted legal and estate papers as well as financial papers such as receipts, travel expenses and donations.
Printed materials consists of news clippings, bulletins, brochures, press releases, conference papers, and magazine and journal articles, most of it related to art conservation.
Artwork includes pencil and ink drawings and sketches, mostly of travel scenes, people, and animals. There is one sketchbook of the human figure. Many sketches were loosely grouped together by Stout with titles such as "Pool Doodles" or "Park and Zoo." The is also one caricature of Eric Brown by Murray Pease.
The papers include photographs and negatives, mostly personal photographs of friends, family, relatives and colleagues. There are also photographs of art conservation conferences and travel photographs. Additional scattered photographs are located in the series containing the Monuments Men files.
Biographical materials include college and graduate school transcripts, awards and commendations, certificates, passports, and miscellaneous materials such as travel itineraries. There are also four small appointment books dating from 1973 and 1975-1977.
Correspondence is with family, friends, colleagues, fellow Monuments Men, and professional organizations such as museums and universities.
Family correspondence is primarily between George Leslie Stout and his immediate and extended family, most of it with his wife Margaret during his World War II service.
Helen Hayes is George Leslie Stout's sister-in-law.
LuLu McBride Stout is George Stout's mother.
This subseries consists of letters exchanged between Stout and other Monuments Men such as Paul Coremans, Ardelia Hall, Thomas Carr Howe, Lincoln Kirstein, Stephen Kovalyk, Lamont Moore, Theodore Sizer, Craig Hugh Smyth, Langdon Warner, and many others. Several of the Monuments Men went on to prominent careers in the arts and Stout stayed in contact. There is also one letter from Haruki Watsuji, the mayor of Kyoto while Stout was serving as a Monuments Man in Japan after the war. The letter mentions Stout and fellow Monuments Man Langdon Warner visiting Kyoto. There is also a Christmas card signed by members of the U.S. Twelfth Army Group. A few records are in French.
Includes one color photograph of George Stout seated at a dinner with M.F.K. Fisher and two photocopies of caricatures drawn by the artist Thomas Buechner.
There is also a black and white group photograph of Stout with Japanese government officials and two Americans, one is probably Langdon Warner and the other is unidentified.
This is a Twelfth Army Group Holiday Menu Card for Christmas 1944 signed by several army members of various ranks.
This subseries contains correspondence with Stout's friends and professional colleagues. Prominent, frequent, or otherwise important correspondents include Walter Beck, Richard D. Buck, William George Constable, Earl of Crawford and Balcarres, George Peabody Gardner, Jr., Rutherford John Gettens, Rollin Hadley, Philip Hendy, William Ivins, Jr., Helmut Ruhemann, and Paul Sachs (Harvard professor and author.)
Includes a black and white photograph of Helmut Ruhemann.
Stout's professional correspondence is with museums, galleries, universities, and other organizations regarding projects or business affairs related to his work as a museum director or art conservation. The Fogg Art Museum folder includes one letter from Agnes Mongan, the museum director, just before her retirement. A few records are in French.
The American Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works was originally called the International Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works - American Group. This folder contains letters with both organization titles.
Miscellaneous correspondence consists of letters from individuals with three letters or less and unidentified people whose names were illegible or they only signed off with their first names.
Writings by Stout include typescript drafts and published articles, speeches, notes, and one folder of images and captions for his book The Care of Pictures. All of the writings are by Stout except for three papers about art conservation that were written by others.
This subseries consists of typescript drafts of essays and articles mostly on the subject of art conservation.
Publications contain Stout's articles on art conservation in journals and magazines.
This subseries includes images and captions for The Care of Pictures, miscellaneous notes, drafts for the text on holiday cards, and bibliographical notes for a later edition of Stout's book. Also found here are art conservation papers written by others.
Subject files concern Stout's work as consultant and his affiliations with and memberships in various organizations after his retirement.
Stout worked as a consultant on conservation projects with museums, universities, and arts organizations. Consultations folders include photographs, reports, floor plans and other miscellaneous materials.
Found here are papers documenting Stout's affiliations with art and conservation organizations, councils, and advisory boards. All date after his retirement as the director of the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in 1970. Documents include meeting minutes, newsletters, photographs, and other assorted materials.
This series is comprised of Stout's military records from his service during and immediately after World War II in the Monuments, Fine Arts, and Archives section of the U.S. Army. The records include certificates, army directives, appointments, forms, reports, four diaries, and a few scattered photographs.
These records include certificates, army directives, appointments, forms, reports, and a few official photographs. There is also a certificate of Stout's honorable discharge from World War I and documentation of his Bronze Star award.
Original certificate and photocopies.
Includes small black and white photographs of George Leslie Stout.
The printed materials in this subseries largely consist of articles and journals written and signed by several Monuments Men and inscribed to George Stout. Many of the articles are about experiences in the Monuments, Fine Arts & Archives (MFAA) Section. There are articles written by Langdon Warner, Lincoln Kirstein, Theodore Sizer, and several others. Some of the papers describe MFAA activities but are not written by Monuments Men. A few records are in French and Japanese.
The commencement address is inscribed by Langdon Warner to George Leslie Stout.
Journal includes articles by Walker Hancock, Marvin C. Ross, and Andrew C. Ritchie about their experiences as Monuments Men.
This booklet was written by Theodore Sizer with an inscription to George Stout.
This booklet was written by Paul Coremans with an inscription to George Leslie Stout.
This article was written by Lincoln Kirstein.
This book contains an article written by Lincoln Kirstein and the cover is inscribed by Kirstein to George Stout.
This booklet was published by the Freer Gallery of Art for the presentation of the Charles Lang Freer Medal to Tanaka Ichimatsu who assisted with art conservation in Japan after World War II. The booklet is inscribed to George Stout by Ichimatsu.
Booklet researching the reason Kyoto was spared as a target for the nuclear bomb. The booklet is inscribed by author Otis Cary, a World War II veteran, to George Stout.
There are 2 folders of photographs about the Monuments, Fine Arts & Archives section. One folder contains a few photographs, several of them duplicates, depicting groups of unidentified soldiers on a ship. Stout is only in two of the images including a group photograph with Lamont Moore, Walker Hancock and other Monuments Men. There are also negatives of 12 images, four of which have been developed into black and white photographs, that show La Gleize Church and the town of Ambleve, Belgium during 1945, probably soon after the Battle of the Bulge.
This folder includes a photograph of George Stout in front of a truck; a group photograph of Stout, Lamont Moore, Walker Hancock and other Monuments Men; and a few photographs of groups of unidentified soldiers on a ship.
There are four diaries dating from 1944-1946 which describe George Stout's activities as a member of the MFAA Section during and after WWII while he was stationed in Europe and then Japan. There is also a short glossary of terms and quotations regarding Japanese tea ceremonies that was included with the diaries.
The records in this subseries are assorted legal and financial papers, such as Stout's will and estate documents, receipts, travel expenses, and donations.
Printed materials include news clippings, bulletins, brochures, conference papers, press releases and magazines.
Inscribed to George Stout from Richard Buck.
Artwork consists of numerous sketches and one sketchbook by George Leslie Stout. The sketchbook is filled with figure drawings. Sketches are in pencil and ink of landscapes, animals, people and scenes from travels. Stout loosely grouped the sketches together by topic with titles such as "Pool Doodles" of people lounging by a poolside and "Pencil Studies Zoo, Park Studies," which are sketches of animals and landscapes. Stout also made holiday greetings cards for which he drew illustrations and added text. Photocopies of several of the completed greeting cards are included. There is one caricature of Eric Brown, Director of the National Gallery of Canada, by Murray Pease, Stout's friend and colleague.
Sketchbook of figure drawings of models.
Sketches of men playing baseball and three drawings of landscapes, 2 of unidentified locations and one of Oliver's Island, Thames in England dated 1938.
Several sketches of people lounging by a pool, location not specified. Sketches were grouped together by Stout along with the label "Pool Doodles."
Sketches grouped together in a folder with an insert labelled "desert." Drawings depict objects such animal skulls and pieces of driftwood. There are two landscapes of an unidentified location.
Pencil drawings of Hilandar Monastery on Mount Athos in Greece dated August, 1971. Drawings are probably from a trip Stout took to the location. The images depict the interior and exterior of the monastery as well as the surrounding landscape. Many drawings have annotations such as "from the window of Room No. 3, Monastery of Hilandari. August 1971."
These drawings were grouped together by Stout along with the label "Pencil Studies Zoo, Park Studies." These include a few ink drawings of people, trees, and park scenes which Stout drew at Balboa Park in California. There are also some pencil sketches of Scandavian reindeer and Uganda Kob which he drew at the zoo.
This series includes photographs, negatives, contact prints, and a few slides of Stout, his friends and colleagues, travels, and events such as arts conservation conferences and receptions.
Two of the photographs are cartes de visite.
Writings, sketches, photographs, slides, and printed material.
REEL 2799: Biographical material; typescripts of his essays on education and art including "A Paradigm Study of the Factors Which Comprise Identity," 1978; 4 unpublished illustrated instruction manuals by Stover; 8 lecture notebooks; 7 sketchbooks and 36 unbound sketches; 15 undated photographs of Stover and his students in the classroom; 6 negatives and 348 slides of his work.
REEL 3122: A Dallas Community College employment questionnaire; an untitled paste-up of an essay on art; sketches; two photographs of works of art; and miscellany.
Interview of Paul Strand conducted by Milton Brown and Walter Rosenblum.
Eilshemius's journal and essays, and McCarthy's sketchbooks and a scrapbook, collected by Sterling Strauser.
REEL 4398: Eilshemius's 125-page journal (1882-1884) discusses classes, student life, and sketching at Cornell University and an 1884 stay in New York City, including his studies at the Art Students League. Sixteen two- to five-page manuscripts (n.d. and 1934), titled "Experiences of Louis Eilshemius" and numbered from 2 to 18, discuss his studies at the Art Students League in New York City and the Academie Julian in Paris, technical matters, and other memories. A 1932 pamphlet by Eilshemius concerns "Some New Discoveries in Science and Art."
REEL 4408: Eight manila folders, each with 2 pages of poems concerning food and eating glued inside, were designed for lunch wagons and diners. One of the three sketchbooks contains drawings of Bethlehem Steel workers, some identified by name and shift number. A notebook (1920-1921) includes crayon and ink, watercolor, and pencil sketches; cartoons; and clippings of women. Seven pages of cartoons are attached to a manila folder. A scrapbook, labeled "made in Ritterville State Hospital, 1920," is filled with clippings of actresses, models, society women, and women athletes, some of whom are identified. Several clippings have been colored over with colored pencil.
A letter from Archie Robertson to Stryker about traveling photographic exhibitions; 2 manuscripts on the origins of the FSA and containing biographical information of Stryker, the staff, and photographers on the project; a photograph of a poem, "Merry Christmas to Stryker"; "Stryker's Credo," a statement he made upon leaving the "Jersey Company" (Standard Oil); "The Children of Esso," 1948 by John Vachon, a psalm-like parody about Stryker and his affiliation with Standard Oil; and a copy of "Their Blood is Strong," 1940 by John Steinbeck on migratory agricultural workers in California illustrated with photos by Dorothea Lange for the FSA, signed by Steinbeck.
Original painting is in the Smithsonian Institution, National Portrait Gallery.
6 letters to Dudley B. Fuller from his family, a friend, and Sturges concerning the Apollo Association's desire to have Danforth engrave Mount's "Undutiful Boys" and Danforth's inability to do so; 3 letters to Luman Reed, one from artist George W. Flagg detailing his impressions of Paris and art; and 2 receipt books, recording Sturges' payments for paintings, framing, subscriptions, taxes, and general household expenditures.
Papers of Jan, Adam and Tade Styka including biographical material; 6 letters to Adam Styka and his wife, Wanda; notes and writings; clippings; exhibition announcements and catalogs; reproductions of works of art; a book of poetry, Z LEZ, DRWI I ZELAZA, illustrated by Jan Styka; miscellaneous printed material; and photographs of Adam Styka, art-related events, and works of art.
The scattered papers of illustrator and painter Susanne Suba measure 0.3 linear feet and date from 1934 to circa 2000. Found is a list of books illustrated by Suba, letters from contributors to The New Yorker and others, photographs, and printed material.
Biographical materials include a list of books illustrated by Suba, and award and membership certificates. Correspondence is with friends and contributors to The New Yorker and authors, including Katharine Brush, Eleanor Estes, Rose Feld, Eleanor Friede, Arthur Getz, Lillian Kiesler, Martha Bennett King, William Maxwell, and Robert Osborn. Letters may discuss upcoming book projects. Photographs include a photo of a display featuring a book by Helene Maclean, illustrated by Suba; a photo of Suba with William Hopper at the Steinway factory at a piano; a print of a photo of Suba with friends from The New Yorker; an undated photo of Arthur Getz; and slides of works of art.
Also found are printed materials which include exhibition announcements and catalogs and covers of The New Yorker featuring Suba's artwork.
The papers of Thom Sudato measure 0.2 linear feet, date from 1972-1976, and provide scattered documentation of Sudato's career through correspondence, poems, photographs of Sudato, his wife Gina Sudato, and his artwork, and documentation of paintings he gave to Gina Sudato.
Correspondences primarily deals with Sudato's attempts to sell his painting "Peace" to various museums and interest dealers in first day cover stamp designs he created. It also includes a notarized copy of a letter to Lord Donaldson of Kingsbridge, England, announcing his donation of his oil painting "The Divine Trinity," to the British Government.
The collection includes copies of legal documentation of paintings Sudato gave to Gina Sudato between 1974-1976, showing title, media, date, size, signature, and value, and photos of most of the paintings.
Also found are copies of nine poems written by Sudato with a letter of transmittal of the poems to the Archives of American Art; six photos of Sudato, including with Gina Sudato; and photos of his artwork including "The Thunderous Roar of Silence," "Unisex," "The Bather," "The Myth of David Diminished," and "All Art is Quite Useless." Additional photos of artwork accompany the documentation of his gifts to Gina Sudato.
Manuscript of a suit of the Society of the Sons of St. George versus Thomas Sully, March 11, 1839, relating to portraits the Society commissioned Sully to do of Queen Victoria.
Register of paintings, 1801-1871 (1 v., 139 p.); Sully's hints for pictures, 1809-1871 (179 p. typescript), including techniques for painting portraits, ingredients for colors, care and preservation of paintings, criticisms of other artists and explanations of their paintings and techniques; and a journal, 1792-1793 and 1799-1846 (1 v., 301 p. typescript).
Correspondence with Lewis Hine, Roy Stryker, Paul Taylor and Dorothea Lange concerning the publication of photographs and articles. Hine correspondence is with Paul and Arthur Kellogg, 1918-1940, and concerns Hine's work for the American Red Cross and many other projects. Stryker correspondence, 1934-1948, is mainly with managing editor Florence Kellogg concerning his work in the Farm Security Administration. Taylor, professor of economics at University of California at Berkeley, and husband of photographer Dorothea Lange, corresponds mainly with Kellogg, 1934-1945, about articles he is writing for the magazine on "rural immigrants," Japanese internment camps, and other topics, and the photographs illustrating them by Lange. The Lange correspondence consists of a few letters, 1943-1945, concerning the mailing and payment for photographs.
The Susan Cummins Gallery records measure 6.4 linear feet and date from 1984 to 2002, with the bulk of the records dating from 1990 to 2001. The collection sheds light on the California gallery's artists and operations through administrative records and artists' files. Administrative records include group show exhibition files, gallery exhibition announcements, newspaper and magazine clippings, casette tapes, and papers from panels and lectures given by Cummins. Artists' files mainly consist of correspondence, resumes, exhibition announcements, articles about the artist, show reviews, and photographic materials. Some of the files include exhibition materials such as price lists, correspondence with other galleries and institutions, photos, and some sales records. Artists featured include Joyce Scott, June Schwarcz, Bruce Metcalf, Jamie Bennett, Dominic Di Mare, Thomas Mann, Keith Lewis, Bob Ebendorf, and Sandra Enterline.
Printed materials consist of clippings about Susan Cummins Gallery, the gallery's exhibits, artists, and other art-related topics, mostly concerning jewelry; and one catalog from the exhibition, Beyond the Obvious: Rethinking Jewelry (2000), held at the San Francisco Craft and Folk Art Museum and curated by Cummins. Group show exhibition files include two cassette tapes from Why Painting? (1992), and from The Weight of Gold (1993), artist statements, exhibition labels, correspondence, and price lists. Cummins's professional papers include lecture notes, transcripts, writings, and press releases. Susan Cummins' Panel and lecture files include transcripts, notes, reference material, and scant correspondence.
Artists' files mainly consist of correspondence, resumes, exhibition announcements, articles about the artist, show reviews, and photographic materials. Some of the files include exhibition materials such as price lists, correspondence with other galleries and institutions, photos, and some sales records. Several audiovisual recordings from artists' interviews, panels, and exhibitions are also present.
File includes 2 CDs.
File includes one CD.
Approximately 10 hours of 16mm motion picture and soundtrack outtakes for Sutherland's 1986 film PAUL CADMUS: ENFANT TERRIBLE AT 80, including interviews, footage of Cadmus painting and drawing, and footage from a 1981 retrospective exhibition in Oxford, Ohio. Also found in the collection is a black and white photograph of Cadmus taken by either Sutherland or George Petrakes, June 1980, and a publicity file for the released film.
On label: Cadmus on Porch
On label: 1st Transfer too fast
On label: What I Believe
On label: Bar Italia
Research material compiled by Art Institute of Chicago curator and art historian Frederick A. Sweet in preparation for exhibitions and a biography of Mary Cassatt. Included are research notes and manuscripts; Cassatt family biography and tree; Sweet's correspondence and copies and transcripts of letters written by Cassatt; drafts of "Miss Mary Cassatt--Impressionist from Pennsylvania" (Chapters I-XII) and other drafts; exhibition catalogs; clippings and copies of clippings; announcements; and photographic prints of Cassatt, her family, and home (location of originals unknown) and of works of art by Cassatt and Whistler.
The papers of painter, poet, and sculptor Trudy Sween measure 0.5 linear feet and date from 1966 to 1982. Found are biographical materials, correspondence, designs for logos and medals, and printed material.
Biographical materials consist of artist statements, a resume, and four transparencies of works of art. Scattered correspondence includes letters from various arts organizations in Houston, Texas. Sween's designs are for logos, seals, and medals, and are hand-drawn and also includes a prototype. Sween designed items for the City of Houston, Jones College, and Rice University. The bulk of the collection consists of printed materials including a book of poems accompanied by artwork entitled Innerscapes, clippings, exhibition announcements, catalogs, and posters.
Correspondence, including c. 60 letters to his brother-in-law, George W. Whistler, father of the painter James McNeill Whistler.
Correspondence, writings, speeches, notes, teaching material, price lists, financial and legal information, press releases, printed material, and photographs relating to Sykes' career as an portrait painter and printmaker, his tenure as Professor of Art at Auburn University, and his 1936 assistantship to muralist Diego Rivera on murals for the Hotel Reforma in Mexico City.
Correspondence, 1940-1990 (1.4 ft.), with sitters, colleagues, galleries, associations and organizations, universities, and others, among them Albert Christ-Janer, Fritz Eichenberg, George C. Miller, and the National Endowment for the Arts; writings, including "Multimetal Lithography for Artists", 1967, written as a result of a grant from the NEA, and containing original prints; lectures delivered at various universities and exhibitions describing his printmaking and portraiture work; notes; teaching material, 1973-1976, relating to Sykes' tenure as Professor of Art at Auburn University; price lists of artwork and other exhibition records; financial records, 1944-1985, mainly receipts for printmaking materials; press releases, 1966-1989, mainly concerning Sykes' award from the NEA and various exhibitions; printed material, ca.1940-ca.1990 (1 ft.), including exhibition announcements and invitations, a dismantled scrapbook containing newspaper clippings, and newsletters from Auburn University and various clubs and organizations; original artwork (0.5 ft.), including sketchbooks and loose sketches and drawings; and photographs (1 ft.), mainly of works of art by Sykes.
Unmicrofilmed documentation relating to Sykes' 1936 assistantship to Diego Rivera is documented by printed material, photographs, many depicting Rivera at work on the mural, and writings, including a manuscript by Sykes "Diego Rivera Remembered: An Account of the Hotel Reforma Mural Project," 1985.
REEL 3667: Sykes' notes on the Hotel Reforma mural project; two letters from Diego Rivera (in Spanish with accompanying translations by Sykes), one providing proof of Sykes' status as a student of fresco painting and the other granting Sykes permission to make sketches and copies of Rivera's paintings; records of supplies; plastering schedules, including diagrams of four fresco panels showing time schedules for plastering; 10 drawings by Sykes of the frescoes; clippings, including a typescript and translation of a newspaper article from "Excelsior" describing the controversy surrounding the murals and Rivera's involvement with Mexican labor unions; and photographs and negatives of the preparation of the walls, Rivera and assistants at work on the murals, and Rivera's studies and finished panels.
The papers of Chilean born painter Jorge Tacla measure 5.05 linear feet and date from 1966-2019. Included are biographical material; letters from friends and other artists; project and exhibition files; photographs consisting of snapshots of Tacla, friends, and paintings; eleven illustrated journals; and printed material. The papers document Tacla's creative process and his relationships with other artists.
This collection documents source material for Tacla's paintings, the creative process through which he makes paintings, his career as an artist working in New York and Chile, and his friendships with other artists. Materials include immigration papers; resumes; an artist bio; an oral history interview transcript; personal and professional correspondence; draft essays; sketches; drawings; sketchbooks; exhibition announcements, catalogs, posters, checklists, and press packets; clippings related to major world events and reviews of Tacla's work; and photographs of Tacla with other artists and colleagues, friends and family, installations, his studios in New York and Chile, and his work.
Biographical material provides a snapshot of Tacla's career through immigration papers, his artist bio, an oral history interview transcript, and resumes. Also included are an ex-ray of Tacla's head, two sonograms, correspondence, and a photocopy of his ID card.
Correspondence, mainly in Spanish, include personal and professional letters with friends and fellow artists, and letters from curators and dealers about exhibitions. Many of the letters are illustrated and highlight Tacla's close friendships with other artists in New York and Chile. Artists of note include Alfredo Jaar, Gonzalo Diaz, and Nuri Gonzales.
Exhibition files document Tacla's work with curators through correspondence, draft essays, posters, sketches, checklists, floor plans, and press packets including a project with the High Museum of art in the early 1990s. Exhibitions of note include "Jorge Tacla Senal de Abandono" (2000), "Kill the Song" (2008), and "Propuesta Conceptual: Obra Permanente Museo de la Memoria" (2009).
Legal records include a lengthy deposition related to a lawsuit with the landlord of Tacla's studio in which Tacla describes in detail his artistic process.
Printed materials highlight Tacla's career as a painter through exhibition announcements and catalogs, and newspaper and magazine clippings of reviews or articles about his work. The clippings also include major events that inspired Tacla's artistic process, including the 2001 attacks on the World Trade Center, the 2008 election of Barak Obama, the death of Osama Bin Laden in 2011, the 2008 Chaiten volcano eruption in southern Chile, and the Bali bombings of nightclubs and bars in 2002.
Artwork demonstrates preliminary work for Tacla's paintings from the 1980s and 1990s to 2018 through eleven notebooks containing drawings, paintings, and writings; two of Tacla's zines; and select drawings. One of the sketchbooks documents a trip Tacla took to Amsterdam in 1986.
Photographic material highlights Tacla's career and his relationships with artists, curators, and dealers. Materials include color and black and white photographs, and slides depicting installations, Tacla's paintings and studios in New York and Chile, and personal snapshots of Tacla with friends, family, and colleagues.
The papers of the expatriate African American painter Henry Ossawa Tanner measure 2.3 linear feet and date from the 1860s to 1978, with the bulk of the material dating from 1890 to 1937. Found in the papers are scattered biographical, family, and legal materials; twenty-seven folders of correspondence with family, friends, patrons, and galleries; writings and notes by Tanner and others; a small amount of printed material; numerous photographs of Tanner, his family, friends, his artwork, and the galleries at the Chicago Art Institute; and a few sketches and drawings.
Biographical material contains identification documents, awards, family and personal bibles, scattered records of his membership in the Societe Artistique de Picardie and the American Expeditionary Forces, address books, family history, a file concerning a lawsuit against the Bethel A.M.E. Church, and a few records documenting the sale of his artwork. Tanner's personal and professional correspondence is with his wife Jessie, his family, friends, patrons, art galleries, and others. Letters are from various family members, his closest friend Atherton Curtis and his wife Ingeborg, friend J.S. Carpenter who was president of the Des Moines Association of Fine Arts and arranged for sales of Tanner's work in the mid-west, Grand Central Art Galleries in New York, and J.J. Taverty who purchased Tanner's work for the High Museum in Atlanta. Topics of note covered in the correspondence include the sale and exhibition of his artwork and his work for the Red Cross.
Writings and Notes by Tanner include two small notebooks, one of which he kept during his travels in Europe and Palestine in 1897. Also found are his scattered loose writings, jottings, and other notes on various subjects, including autobiographical notes. Writings by others include notes and an essay by his wife Jessie, and a manuscript, "The Life and Works of Henry O. Tanner," by his son Jesse. Printed Materials document Tanner's career and other interests through exhibition announcements, news clippings, printed reproductions of artwork, a published autobiographical essay, and other miscellaneous items. The collection includes numerous photographs of Tanner, family and friends, his studio in Paris, his home in Trepied and in Spain, travels, and artwork. Additional photographs include a circa 1890 shot of Tanner with students at the Académie Julian and another depicting Tanner with members of the American Art Club in Paris, circa 1900. Artwork consists of an ink drawing of a Paris studio and pencil sketches by Tanner.
Found here are published biographies, including Tanner's 1937 obituary; identification documents, such as passports and Red Cross identity card; a one-page handwritten record of Tanner family marriages, possibly removed from a family bible; a small personal bible and larger family bible; membership documents for the Societe Artistique de Picardie, and the American Expeditionary Forces. A few documents concern his father Benjamin Tucker Tanner's estate. There is one file regarding a lawsuit with the Bethel A. M. E. Church over the church's failure to pay for a commissioned work of art by Tanner. Also found are three of Tanner's address books, loose addresses, scattered notes, lists, and a few receipts regarding the sale of his paintings. Award certificates and medals include his Legion of Honor medal and National Academy of Design membership certificate.
This series contains Henry Ossawa Tanner's personal and professional correspondence, with the bulk of the letters dating after 1900 until his death in 1937. Found here are letters from members of the Tanner family, including his sisters Mary and Belle, several nieces, and one letter from Benjamin Tucker Tanner to Jessie Olssen Tanner. These letters primarily discuss family news. Also found is correspondence between Tanner and his wife Jessie, including telegrams and letters from Jessie while Tanner was traveling in Jerusalem and while serving in the Red Cross in 1918. A small amount of correspondence with his son Jesse Ossawa Tanner exists here. Also found is correspondence with Tanner's friend J. S. Carpenter, president of the Des Moines Association of Fine Arts, that concerns sales of Tanner's work in the mid-west, and with his closest friend Atherton Curtis and his wife Ingeborg. Additional correspondence is with Grand Central Art Galleries in who represented his art in the New York area, with J. J. Haverty who purchased Tanner's work for the High Museum in Atlanta, and with Tanner's brother-in-law Charles Tough. Tanner also received numerous letters of condolence after the death of his wife in 1925.
General chronological correspondence includes letters from friends, patrons, dealers, galleries, and others. Business letters concern loans of paintings for exhibitions, requests for photograph reproductions, information requests for articles, commissioned artwork, and inquiries about purchasing paintings. Also included are more intimate correspondence with friends, letters of congratulations, and correspondence with his wife's family. A small amount of the general correspondence is in French. Additional material found in this series is a letterbook containing carbon copies of letters Tanner wrote during 1918 while working for the Red Cross, and Jesse Tanner's correspondence with others concerning Henry Tanner's death and his artwork.
This series contains writings by and about Henry Ossawa Tanner. Writings by Tanner include two pocket-sized notebooks, one of which was kept during his travels in Europe and Palestine in 1897. Also found are loose writings and notes, primarily fragments of his autobiographical writings, and also draft essays and notes on various subjects. Writings by others include an essay by Jessie Olssen Tanner about women's lives in France during WWI. Writings by Tanner's son Jesse include a two volume manuscript with attached news clippings and additional notes about the life and work of his father. Also found is an essay about Tanner by the writer and journalist Eunice Tietjens, and a few unidentified writing fragments.
(see also OV 5)
Printed material includes exhibition announcements for Tanner and other artists, news clippings from magazines and newspapers (mostly American publications) about Tanner and exhibitions of his artwork, and news of art events in France. Also found is a two part article "The Story of an Artist's Life," by Henry Ossawa Tanner in World's Work from June and July 1909. Other miscellaneous printed material includes brochures, pamphlets, programs and other miscellaneous printed items mostly relating to religion and the civil rights of African Americans.
Found here are numerous photographs of Tanner, his family, and friends. Included are several portraits of Tanner - a photograph of him on horseback as a young man, in his military uniform during WWI, and painting in his studio. Also found is a circa 1890 photograph of Tanner with other fellow students at the Académie Julian, and another dated circa 1900 taken with members of the American Art Club in Paris. Other photographs of Tanner depict him with his wife Jessie, son Jesse, and friends at social gatherings, and together in Morocco. Additional family photographs include portraits of Jessie as a young woman, Jesse as a small child and playing with friends, and several portraits of Jessie and Jesse together, including one in which they are posing for Tanner's painting "Christ Learning to Read." Also found are photographs of Tanner's parents, Benjamin Tucker Tanner and Sarah Tanner, a tintype of Sarah Tanner's sister, and other Tanner family members, including portraits of Henry Tanner's sisters Mary, Sadie, Bertha, and Isabella, and a few of his nieces. The collection contains several photographs of Tanner's close friend Atherton Curtis and his family, including his first wife Louise and his second wife Ingeborg. Photographs of Tanner's teacher Benjamin Constant, other friends, and an ambrotype of an unidentified woman are found here. Additional photographs are of Tanner's studio in Paris, his tent and campground in Palestine, his residences, including his home in Trepied, Normandy, and of exhibitions at the Art Institute of Chicago. Also found are numerous photographs of Tanner's paintings and drawings.
(Includes a circa 1890 photograph of Tanner with fellow students at the Académie Julian and one depicting Tanner with members of the American Art Club in Paris, circa 1900)
This series contains two examples of artwork executed by Henry Ossawa Tanner early in his career - an ink wash drawing of a studio in Paris, and a book, The Wreck of the Schooner "Storm" by Dwight Williams, with added pencil and ink illustrations by Tanner.
This microfilm collection consists of the Henry O. Tanner letters to the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts. Correspondence in this collection concerns the purchase of a painting by African American artist Henry O. Tanner for the Academy collection and the exhibition of Tanner's work. Letters from Robert Ogden to the Academy were written on Tanner's behalf.
Biographical material relating to John W. Taylor and correspondence relating to Taylor and Andrée Ruellan.
Biographical material includes material relating to Taylor's education, exhibition and membership history. The majority of the collection consists of correspondence, including letters between Ruellan and Taylor, written at times when the couple was apart. Other letters are from the artists Julius Bloch, John Herron, Howard Cook, Adolf and Virginia Dehn, William Eisner, Daniel Gelfand, Boyer Gonzales, Albert Heckman, Jules Heller, Sydney and Bea Laufman, Alex Minewski, Roland Mousseau, Isamu Noguchi, Elsa Schmid, Kendall Shaw, Eugene and Elsie Speicher, Maurice Sterne, Fritzi Striebel, Charmion von Wiegand, and others. There is also extensive correspondence with art dealers Antoinette Kraushaar, Louis Pollack, and Joel Rosenkranz and Janice Conner, and letters from art historians and writers, Marlene Park, Virginia Hersch, Philip Clark Horton, and Peter Bissell.
The papers of New York historian Virginia Teague measure 0.2 linear feet and date from 1913-1962, with the bulk of materials from 1913-1917. The papers consist of scattered records and papers compiled by Virginia Teague for the intended purpose of writing a history of the 1913 Armory Show, also known as the International Exhibition of Modern Art, organized by the Association of American Painters and Sculptors (AAPS). Documents include correspondence, business records, and printed material mostly in connection with the Copley Society and AAPS.
There are a few letters from Elmer MacRae and Vera Kuhn to Virginia Teague recalling the Armory Show. There is one letter from Art Alliance of America Secretary, Elizabeth Grimball, to Henry Fitch Taylor advocating "preparedness" for artists in the event of international hostilities.
Records of the Association of American Painters and Sculptors include meeting minutes, 1913-1915, with agendas, drafts and completed reports of proceedings, checklists of attendees, a hand-written statement by Walt Kuhn, signed by Arthur B. Davies and Elmer McRae, and a mimeograph copy of the AAPS Constitution. Additional correspondence is between Henry Fitch Taylor, George Luks, and James Townsen regarding a review published in American Art News.
Records of the Copley Society are mostly related to the Armory Show. Business records include an exhibition contract and daily sales tallies from the Copley Society, which hosted the Boston venue at Copley Hall. Correspondence is with Walt Kuhn, Arthur B. Davies, John Quinn, Holker Abbott, Edward Warren, L. Flanders, and the law firm of Brandeis, Dunbar & Nutter, and regards a disagreement over sharing revenue generated by the Armory Show exhibition; and letters from General Services Administration and the U.S. Treasury Department regarding customs records for the Armory Show.
Printed material includes catalogs and clippings about the Armory Show.
The collection includes a few letters from Elmer MacRae and Vera Kuhn to Virginia Teague recalling the Armory Show. There is one letter from Art Alliance of America Secretary, Elizabeth Grimball, to Henry Fitch Taylor advocating "preparedness" for artists in the event of international hostilities.
Records of the Association of American Painters and Sculptors include meeting minutes, 1913-1915, with agendas, drafts and completed reports of proceedings, checklists of attendees, a hand-written statement by Walt Kuhn, signed by Arthur B. Davies and Elmer McRae, and a mimeograph copy of the AAPS Constitution. Additional correspondence is between Henry Fitch Taylor, George Luks, and James Townsen regarding a review published in American Art News.
Records of the Copley Society are mostly related to the Armory Show. Business records include an exhibition contract and daily sales tallies from the Copley Society, which hosted the Boston venue at Copley Hall. Correspondence is with Walt Kuhn, Arthur B. Davies, John Quinn, Holker Abbott, Edward Warren, L. Flanders, and the law firm of Brandeis, Dunbar & Nutter, and regards a disagreement over sharing revenue generated by the Armory Show exhibition; and letters from General Services Administration and the U.S. Treasury Department regarding customs records for the Armory Show.
Printed material includes catalogs and clippings about the Armory Show.
The papers of painter and sculptor Sabina Teichman measure 0.5 linear feet and date from 1947 to 1981. The collection includes biographical materials and sketches, printed material, and one photo of a work of art. Also found is correspondence which is primarily professional but also includes personal letters from Chaim and Renée Gross.
Biographical materials include a resume, biographical sketches and reviews of Teichman's works, notes, a photograph of a work of art, and drawings of human figures. Largely, correspondence is professional in nature and includes three photocopies of letters from Padre Grech of the Vatican and Teichman's letter to Pope Paul VI. Also found are personal letters from Renée and Chaim Gross to Teichman. Printed materials consist of clippings, exhibition announcements and catalogs, and press releases concerning Teichman's career.
Biographical material; correspondence; exhibition announcements and catalogs; writings; clippings; photographs and slides of Teilman, her work, and studio.
The papers of painter and naturalist, Abbott Handerson Thayer, and the Thayer family date from 1851 to 1999, with the bulk of the material dating from 1881 to 1950, and measure 5.12 linear feet. Thayer's painting career, interest in concealing coloration in nature, and relationships with artists, patrons, family, and friends are documented through correspondence, writings, scattered legal and financial records, printed materials, and a scrapbook. Photographs are of Thayer, his family, studio, and friends, including artists. The collection also contains family papers created by his second wife, Emma Beach Thayer, his son Gerald, his daughters Mary and Gladys, and Gladys' husband David Reasoner, who managed Thayer's estate after his death.
Scattered Biographical Material includes a brief autobiographical statement and chronology by Abbott Thayer, lists of artworks by Abbott Thayer and Gladys Thayer Reasoner, and biographical information about Thayer's granddaughter, Jean Reasoner Plunket. Two linear feet of family correspondence includes Abott Thayer's correspondence with patrons Charles L. Freer and John Gellatly; with many artists, several of whom were close friends, including Samuel Colman, Thomas Millie Dow, Daniel Chester French, Richard Meryman, Everton Sainsbury, Louis Agassiz Fuertes, and E. M. Taber; and former students, such as Ben Foster and Barry Faulkner; and with other friends, many of them prominent members of society, such as Samuel Clemens, Royal Cortissoz, Edward Waldo Emerson, and Stanford White. Also found is Thayer's correspondence with scientists and naturalists discussing his theories on protective coloration in nature. Correspondence of his second wife Emma Beach Thayer, his first wife, Kate Bloede Thayer, his daughter, Gladys Thayer Reasoner, her husband and executor of Thayer's estate, David Reasoner, and other family members are also included in the papers.
Writings and notes by Thayer record his thoughts on concealing coloration, nature, restoration of artwork, and other topics. Writings by others include those by Emma Beach Thayer, daughters Mary and Gladys, and Thayer scholars. The collection also contains correspondence of David Reasoner and other family members, as well as financial and legal documents regarding the estate of Abbott Handerson Thayer and Emma Beach Thayer. Additional financial and legal material includes ledgers, accounts statements, bills, a patent granted to Thayer and Gerome Brush, legal agreements, property deeds, and a map of Thayer's property.
Printed material include books, including one written by Theodore Roosevelt in response to Thayer's book on concealing coloration. Also found are newspaper and magazine clippings, and exhibition announcements and catalogs. Photographs are of Abbott Thayer, his wife Emma; his studio and home in Dublin, New Hampshire; friends, including Rockwell Kent and Ralph Waldo Emerson; and of unidentified people. Artwork includes a few drawings by Thayer, drawings and paintings by his children, and sketchbooks belonging to David Reasoner and Jean Reasoner Plunket. The collection also includes one large scrapbook kept by David Reasoner documenting Abbott Thayer's artwork.
Biographical material includes a brief autobiographical statement by Abbott Thayer and a chronology of his artwork and family activities from 1880 to 1921. Also found is the French birth certificate for Thayer's son William Henry Thayer, newspaper obituaries for Emma Beach Thayer, and lists of artworks by Abbott Thayer and Gladys Thayer Reasoner. A biographical sketch written by David Reasoner about the early life of his daughter, Jean Reasoner Plunket, and Jean's genealogy research on the Thayer and Plunket families are filed here.
Personal and professional correspondence of the Thayer family is found in this series. The bulk of the correspondence belongs to Abbott Handerson Thayer and his second wife Emma Beach Thayer, although several folders are for Thayer's first wife Kate Bloede Thayer. Correspondence is also found for Thayer's daughter Gladys Thayer Reasoner and her husband David Reasoner and other family members, including Mary Thayer Birch, Gerald Thayer, and Jean Reasoner Plunket.
Abbott Handerson Thayer's correspondence consists primarily of letters to Thayer, but includes a few handwritten copies or drafts of his outgoing letters. Found here are numerous personal letters to and from family members, including his daughters Mary and Gladys (Galla), his son Gerald (Gra), and his wife Emma (also known as Addie), as well as nephews, nieces, sisters, cousins, and other extended family. There is correspondence with his patrons Charles L. Freer and John Gellatly; with many artists, several of whom were close friends, including Samuel Colman, Thomas Millie Dow, Daniel Chester French, Richard Meryman, Everton Sainsbury, Louis Agassiz Fuertes, and E. M. Taber; and former students, such as Ben Foster and Barry Faulkner; with other friends, many of them prominent members of society, such as Samuel Clemens, Royal Cortissoz, Edward Waldo Emerson, and Stanford White. A large amount of Thayer's correspondence concerns his research on protective coloration in nature and the publication of his book Concealing Coloration in the Animal Kingdom. To pursue and defend his theories on concealing coloration, especially as applied to birds, he corresponded with many notable naturalists, biologists, ornithologists, and collection curators. Most notable is his extensive correspondence with Sir Edwin Bagnall Poulton, a British zoologist, and draft letters to Theodore Roosevelt, in defense and promotion of his work. He corresponded with many, including Franklin D. Roosevelt, then the Assistant Secretary of the Navy, and the War Office in London, promoting his theory on the value of concealing coloration for warships and the military. Correspondence is arranged alphabetically by last name of correspondent and chronologically within each folder.
Adams, Charles C.
Adams, Jenny S.
Allen, John E.
American Academy of Arts and Letters
Baird, J. A.
Barton, C. Vanderbilt
Battin, Benjamin
Bayard, Fairfax
Beach, Charles
Beatty, John W.
Bell, Arthur G.
Bell, F. Jeffrey
Benson, Frank
Birch, Elsie
Birch, Mrs. (Fred Birch's mother)
Blashfield, Edwin Howland
Bloede, Victor G.
Bonnat, Mr.
Braun, John F.
Brenton, Albert G.
Brown, H. S.
Bruce, Charles M.
Buffalo Fine Arts Academy
Bureau des Inventions, Ministere de l'Armement
Burlingham, L. L.
Burroughs, John
Cabot, Mrs. Arthur (Susie) 
Cabot, Elise Pumpelly
Cabot, W. B. 
Calkins, Professor 
Carnegie, Andrew 
Carr, Albert 
Cattell, J. 
Channing, Anna K. 
Cheney, Frederick E. 
Churchill, Winston 
Clark, Austin H. 
Clark, Edgar 
Clark, John S. 
Clarke, Samuel F. 
Cockerell, Theo. D. A. 
Codair, Ernest W. 
Coffin, William A. 
Contant, R. B. 
Coolidge, Dr. A. 
Coolidge, John T. 
Cooper, Susan Fenimore 
Crandall, L. S. 
Cunard S. S. Line 
Davis, Livingston 
Dewing, Thomas Wilmer 
Dwight, Daniel A. 
Endicott, William 
Ewart, Professor 
Farmborough, Percy W. 
Faulkner, Barry 
Fenn, Roger 
Fischer, Dr. Martin H. 
Fisher, Ned 
Forbush, Edward Howe 
Forest and Stream
Franck, Peter 
Fuertes, Louis Agassiz 
Gérôme, Jean-Léon 
Grave, Caswell 
Green, H. S. 
Greene, Mary Amory 
Grovenor, Gilbert H. 
Guthrie, W. N. 
Hardy, Walter M. 
Hatch, Rob 
Hawthorne, Charles W. 
Hazen, John D. 
Hemenway, Mr. 
Hill, Mrs. 
Hodge, C. F. 
Holbrook, Mrs. Frederick 
Hutchins, Professor 
James, Angela? 
Johnson, R. U. 
Kurtz, W. M. 
Lankester, Edwin Ray 
Latham, Mrs. C. F. 
Lay, Wilfrid 
Leicester 
Library of Congress 
Life magazine 
Lillie, Frank R. 
Lucas, Frederic A. 
Macbeth Galleries 
Mackintosh, Henry S. 
Macmillan Company 
MacVeagh, Franklin 
Manship, Paul 
Marshall, Guy A. K. 
Masefield, John 
Mathewson, Dr. 
Mayer, Alfred G. 
Mayor's Committee on Cultivation of Vacant Lots by the Unemployed 
Mead, Teddy 
Mercur, Dr. William H. 
Merriam, Clinton Hart 
Minnigerode, C. Powell 
Moloney, Governor 
Momber, E. A. 
Morris, Mr. 
National Academy of Design 
Olcott, Adeline Cheney 
Old Colony Trust Company 
Oldys, Henry 
Packard, Alpheus Spring 
Parker, G. H. 
Patten, Mary C. 
Peabody, Francis Greenwood 
Pepper, Charles H. 
Perabo, Ernst 
Perkins, Katrine C. 
Pocock, R. I. 
Psychological Laboratory, Cornell University 
Putnam, A. P. 
Quelch, Joe 
Rand, Mr. 
Reusch, Hans & Helga 
Rice, James Henry 
Richards, Patty 
Robbins, Reginald C. 
Robinson, B. L. 
Robinson, Scott 
Sackett, Edith S. 
Sainsbury, Harrington 
Sears, Sara C. 
Secretary of the Admiralty 
Shelden, C. S. 
Shurtleff, Roswell Morse 
Shurtleff, William H. 
Slack, Julia L. 
Sloane, William M. 
Smith, William Lord 
Southwick, E. B. 
Stephens, T. C. 
Stillman, Clara 
Thayer, David 
Thayer, Gerald 
Tiffany, Louis Comfort 
Tryon, Dwight W. 
Van Norden, Ottomar H. 
Von Wittenburg, Marie 
Walker, H. O. 
Wallace, Alfred R. 
Walton, Blanche W. 
Warren, Gretchen 
Watkins & Doncaster 
Webster, Arthur Gordon 
Weigels, Mrs. 
Weld, George F. 
Wellesley College 
Wentworth, N. 
White, Stanford 
Wilcox, W. D. 
Wild Life Protection League of America 
Wilson, Woodrow 
Wyeth, N. C. 
Wylie, J. E. 
Yale University 
Zuler?, H. Morris 
This subseries contains the correspondence of Emma Beach Thayer, also known as Addie by her family, and document her personal life, family relationships, and management of Abbott Thayer's legacy. Found here is a large amount of correspondence with family members, including her step-daughters Mary and Gladys, her step-son Gerald, as well as her parents, sisters, nephews, nieces, and other extended family. Also found is extensive correspondence with her friend, and Thayer's first wife, Kate Bloede Thayer. Much of her correspondence is with the same people who corresponded with Abbott Thayer, but also includes other friends, most notably, Henry Ward Beecher.
After 1916 Emma managed much of Abbott Thayer's correspondence due to his poor health, and included here are a few letters regarding the sale or exhibition of his artwork. Many of the letters found here are condolences to Emma after Abbott's death in 1921, including many letters from artists and friends expressing thoughts and memories of his life. There are also letters from Emma to many of Abbott's friends requesting his letters or copies of his for a planned book of Thayer's correspondence.
Researchers should note that correspondence between Emma and Abbott is arranged in subseries 2.1. Emma's correspondence is arranged alphabetically by last name and chronologically within each folder.
Addams, Jane 
Allen, Glover M. 
Allen, Irene C. 
Allen, Nellie Wright 
American Academy of Arts and Letters 
American Federation of Arts 
Andrews, Robert D. 
Atlantic Monthly
Ayres, Philip W. 
Backhouse, Irene 
Barker, Virgil 
Bartsch, Paul 
Bayard, Mabel 
Beach, Ella 
Beatty, Mr. 
Beaulieu, Bessie Price 
Bigelow, Henry B. 
Birch, Elsie 
Blashfield, Edwin Howland 
Bowditch, Nancy 
Bowditch, Vincent Y. 
Brackett, Mary A. 
Bradley, Susan H. 
Braun, John F. 
Brown, Demetra & Kenneth 
Browne, George & Emily H. 
Brush, George de Forest 
Buffalo Fine Arts Academy 
Burlingham, L. L. 
Carr, W. S. 
Channing, Anna K. 
Churchill, Alfred 
Coffin, Grace P. 
Coffin, William A. 
Cole, Kate Foote 
Cole, Timothy 
Contant, R. B. 
Coolidge, John T. 
Curtis, Benjamin 
Dewing, Maria Oakey 
Dewing, Thomas Wilmer 
Dickerson, Roy E. 
Dow, Florence E. 
Elliot, Mary 
Emerson, Annie S. 
Emerson, Edward W. 
Faulkner, Barry 
Field, Mary D. 
Fischer, Dr. Martin H. 
Forbes, Alexander 
Foster, Ben 
Freer Gallery of Art 
Fuller, Lucie Fairchild 
Gab?, Clara C. 
Gould, Laura Stedman 
Goodnow, W. L. 
Gulick, Alida Carey 
Hassam, Childe 
Hawthorne, Charles W. 
Hawthorne, Marion 
Hazen, John D. 
Historical Press Association 
Hemenway, Mr. 
Holt, Florence F. 
Houghton Mifflin Company 
Jenkins, Elizabeth F. 
John Lane Company 
Kent, Rockwell 
Keyes, Alicia 
Kittredge, S. Dana 
Low, Will H. 
Macbeth, Robert W. 
MacKaye, Percy 
MacVeagh, Franklin 
Masefield, J. 
Mason, John? 
McIlvane, William M. 
Merriman, Charlotte B. 
Minnigerode, C. Powell 
Morris, Harrison S. 
National Association of Audubon Societies 
Of, George Ferdinand 
Pabrelivitsch?, Mme. Ossip 
Pepper, Charles H. 
Pevey?, Eustace 
Powell, Caroline 
Powers, Henrietta 
Putnam, James J. 
Reilly, Mary S. 
Roosevelt, Edith K. 
Sackett, Edith S. 
Sainsbury, Grace E. 
Sargent, John Singer 
Sears, Mrs. 
Sharman, John 
Shurtleff, Clara E. 
Slack, Julia 
Smart, Ann Wentworth 
Smith, Annie Morrill 
Smith, H. A. Hammond 
Stillman, Evangeline 
Stone, Ellen J. 
Thayer, Dr. William & Ellen Handerson 
Treasury Department, Internal Revenue Service 
Troccoli, Giovanni B. 
Tryon, Dwight W. 
Twitchill?, Charlotte H. P. 
Van Loon, Elize Bowditch 
Von Villern, Wilhelmina 
Vose, Robert C. 
Walker, Henry O. 
War Office, London 
Wheeler, Emma H. 
White, Lawrence Grant 
Whiting, Sue Thayer 
Whiting, Winifred Harris 
Whitney, Douglas 
Wister, Owen 
Wyeth, Annie W. 
Wyeth, N. C. 
Yale University 
Kate Bloede Thayer's correspondence documents family activities and friendships during the 1880s. Included are letters in German from her grandfather, letters from her brother, Victor, and several letters from her daughter Mary sent during Kate's time at a sanatorium. Also found are letters from artist friends including Arthur Bell, Thomas Millie Dow, and Lewis T. Ives. Dow's letters discuss his travels in Europe, his current artwork, mutual friends such as Arthur Bell, and other general news. Ives's letters also discuss mutual friends and general news. Letters from Kate to her in-laws, William and Ellen Thayer, discuss family news and news of Abbot's work. Other correspondence, arranged alphabetically, contains letters from family and friends. Correspondence between Kate Bloede Thayer and Emma Beach Thayer is found with Emma Beach's correspondence.
The correspondence of Gladys Thayer Reasoner, a.k.a Galla, documents family activities and her friendships. Found here are letters to and from family members, including her sister Mary, her brother Gerald (known as Gra), nephews, nieces, and other extended family, such as her cousins in the Foster and Whiting families. Additional letters are from friends, including Randolph Bourne, Frances Burns, Evangeline Stillman, Blanche Walton, and others. Gladys also maintained correspondence with Thayer family friends, who were friends of her parents, or members of the Dublin, New Hampshire community in which they lived, such as Mary Amory Greene, John Gellatly, Richard Meryman, Raphael Pumpelly, and Jay and Philip Whelpley. Gladys' correspondence is also found in the subseries containing her father and stepmother Emma Beach Thayer correspondence.
Beach, Violet 
Beaulieu, Mary 
Berlingham, Robert 
Bloede, Victor G. 
Bowditch, Vincent Y. 
Buckley, Lou 
Cameron, Hugh A. 
Clemens, Jean 
Comstock, Charlie L. 
Cortissoz, Royal 
Daniels, George E. 
Dow, Florence E. 
F., W. W. 
Faulkner, Barry 
Fisher, Ellen Thayer 
Forbes, Alexander 
Franck, Peter 
Gellatly, John 
Gleason, John R. 
Goldschmidt, Anita 
Greene, Mary Amory 
Harvard College, Museum of Comparative Zoology 
Hoen, A. B. 
Hu?, Evan 
James, Henry 
James, Nina Marion 
James, William 
Jenkins, Elizabeth F. 
Keane, Polla Price 
Kellogg, Foster S. 
Kittredge, Anna M. 
Kleb, Sarah M. 
Lord, Ruth Whiting 
Lowder, Isabel 
MacVeagh, Eames 
Martin, Polly (Mrs. G. Rainsford Martin) 
Meryman, Richard S. (Wig) 
Nautilus Beach Club 
Ohta family 
Page, Arthur W. 
Paramount Pictures Distributing Corporation 
Percy, Eustace 
Pinkham, M. 
Public Works of Art Project 
Pumpelly, Raphael 
Putnam, Shirley 
Reasoner, Mrs. (David's Mother) 
Reasoner, Nan 
Rodakiewicz, Eva 
Schurmeier, Theodora 
Stokes, Rose Paxton 
Tax Commissioner 
Thayer, Alma 
Thayer, Bernie 
Tish, Hay 
Treasury Department, Public Works of Art Project 
Tryon, Dwight W. 
W., Marion W. 
Wangler, Kathy & Albert McCreery 
War Department 
Warner, Langdon 
White, Nelson C. 
Whiting, Rose 
The Woman Citizen
Wynne, Annette 
David Reasoner's correspondence is primarily with family and friends, such as Emma Beach Thayer's sister, Violet, and from Mary Thayer Birch discussing Emma's estate, Gerald's ill health, and other family news. David Reasoner also corresponded with John Gellatly concerning the sale of Abbott Thayer's paintings, and with Gerald Thayer concerning financial matters. Other alphabetical correspondence is with Thayer and Reasoner family members, people working on books or requesting information on Abbott Thayer, museums exhibiting Thayer's work, and people interested in purchasing artwork by Thayer. Also found are letters concerning the deaths of Reasoner's mother, his wife Gladys, and his son Allen. The bulk of the David Reasoner correspondence concerning the estates of Abbott H. Thayer and Emma Beach Thayer is found in Series 4: Estate Papers.
This series contains the correspondence of other members of the Thayer and Reasoner families. Included is correspondence between Elsie Birch and her cousins, and the correspondence of her mother, Mary Thayer Birch. Also found are letters to Jean Reasoner Plunket, Abbott Thayer's granddaughter, including many from Nelson C. White, who collected research material for a biography of Abbott Thayer.
Gerald H. Thayer's correspondence discusses concealing coloration, the estate of Abbott and Emma Thayer, and letters of condolence from George Gray Barnard and Edwin H. Blashfield. Additional correspondence found here includes letters to Gerald's wife, Alma, from the family friend and Thayer patron, John Gellatly, letters to Abbott Thayer's parents, Dr. William and Ellen Thayer, and letters to Jay and Philip Whelpley, family friends of the Thayers.
This series contains writings by Abbott Handerson Thayer and others, including family members and scholars. Writings by Thayer primarily focus on his theories about concealing coloration and nature observations through notes and draft writings. Also found are his writings on other topics such as the restoration of artwork. Writings by others include the writings of Emma Beach Thayer and Abbott Thayer's daughters Mary and Gladys, and writings by scholars about the Thayer's artwork.
Writings by Abbott Handerson Thayer, primarily on the topic of concealing coloration and his observations of nature, include four small notebooks. His notes and draft essays, often written on small scraps of paper or the back of other documents, are on the topic of concealing coloration in nature, and the related topics, the invisibility of icebergs and the concealing coloration in military uniforms and warships. Many of his notes appear to be preparations for lectures or letters to the editor on these topics, or responses to the negative feedback from his book Concealing Coloration in Nature, published in 1909. Also found are draft essays on the restoration of works of art and notes and essays on various subjects such as the Boer war, art, and other thoughts on nature.
This subseries contains writings by the Thayer family and writings by scholars, primarily about Abbott Handerson Thayer. Included are writings by Emma Thayer, such as a manuscript for a story entitled "Ernest" and two poems, and Mary Thayer's diary and corresponding hand-made calendar, written when she was ten years old. Writings by Gladys Thayer Reasoner include a brief biographical sketch of her father, a biography of her son, Allen Reasoner, who died in 1943 in a plane crash, and stories and other writings she wrote as a young girl.
Writings by others about Abbott Thayer include a draft manuscript by Nancy Bell, wife of artist Arthur Bell, about Thayer's book on concealing coloration. This series also contains writings by unidentified authors, such as draft writings about George Gray Barnard, possibly written by David or Gladys Thayer Reasoner, and miscellaneous writings and poetry by others. Folders are arranged by author and title of work, if known, and chronologically within each folder.
This series contains the estate papers for Abbott Handerson Thayer, who died in 1921 and Emma Beach Thayer, who died in 1924. Much of material consists of correspondence between David Reasoner, Executor of both estates, and others regarding financial and legal matters. Correspondence of note is with Mary and Gerald Thayer regarding their inheritance, and with E. & A. Milch, Inc. and William Macbeth, Inc. regarding the sale of artwork. Also found are financial and legal documents, forms, lists and notes, and Emma Thayer's will and drafts. Some of the financial account statements and a ledger book have not been scanned.
This series contains a small amount of Thayer and Reasoner family financial records not directly related to the estates of Abbott or Emma Thayer. Most of this series has not been scanned.
Legal records include a copy of the patent office record given to Gerome Brush and Abbott Handerson Thayer for the "process of treating the outsides of ships & for making them less visible." Also included in that folder is a contract handwritten by Thayer giving Brush claim to use of the original invention. Other documents in this series are legal agreements, including a draft agreement among landowners in Dublin, New Hampshire to create a nature reservation, and deeds of property belonging to Abbott Thayer and Emma Beach Thayer. Also found is a map of the property owned by Thayer and surrounding properties in Dublin.
Printed material includes two books, an alphabet book belonging to Abbott Thayer which he inscribed and gave to his daughter Mary, and a bound article written by Theodore Roosevelt in response to Thayer's book on concealing coloration. The article was originally published in the Bulletin of the American Museum of Natural History, volume XXX. Also found are newspaper and magazine clippings about Abbott Thayer, about his artwork and exhibitions, and about the Reasoner family. Exhibition announcements and catalogs are for exhibitions by Thayer, his daughter Gladys Thayer Reasoner, and group exhibitions. Other material in this series is about the Woodstock Playhouse, for which David Reasoner was the director, and includes news clippings, programs and newsletters, and the publication Hue and Cry.
This series contains photographs of Abbott H. Thayer, including two portraits of him, a photo of him with a group of people (possibly at Gerald Thayer's wedding), and a photograph of his plaster death mask. Also found are photographs of Thayer's studio, some of which include the painting he was working on at the time, his son Gerald, and other models. There are photographs of Thayer's home in Dublin, New Hampshire. Additional photographs are of his wife, Emma Beach Thayer, Ralph Waldo Emerson, and one of his former student Rockwell Kent painting outdoors. Also found are numerous photographs of unidentified people, most likely members of the Thayer family, and a few photographs of artwork by Thayer.
(1 glass plate negative housed in MGP 2)
This series includes two drawings by Abbott Thayer, one depicting an angel and modeled by his daughter Mary. Also found is a large amount of artwork by children, including drawings by Gerald Thayer and other unidentified drawings and paintings, probably by Mary, Gerald, and Gladys Thayer, animal cutouts by Jean Reasoner Plunket, and other small painted cutout figures by an unknown artist. Also found are two sketchbooks, one belonging to David Reasoner, and the other probably belonging to his daughter, Jean Reasoner Plunket.
This large scrapbook, compiled by David Reasoner, includes photographs and printed reproductions of paintings by Abbott Thayer, as well as a few newspaper clippings about his artwork. The scrapbook also includes a few notations listing the current owners of the paintings.
Photocopy of a typescript labeled ""From several mss., dated 1971, compiled by R.T.G., 1982."
The papers of art conservator and historian, professor, engineer, and writer Daniel Varney Thompson (1902-1980) are dated 1848-1979, with the bulk of the material dated 1923-1979. The collection measures 10.1 linear feet and consists of biographical material, correspondence, subject files, writings, artwork, printed material, and photographs.
Biographical information includes certificates and diplomas, passports, and wills. Correspondence documents Daniel Varney Thompson's personal and professional life. Personal correspondence centers heavily on family members including his brother, the composer Randall Thompson. Professional correspondence concerns Thompson's academic career, research, writing, and work as a technical consultant and engineer. Among the correspondents are colleagues from Harvard, Yale, the Courtauld Institute, publishers, and academic and technical journals, in addition to corporate clients.
Subject files are comprised of varying correspondence, printed matter, photographs, notes and writings relating to Thompson's areas of interest. Personal and professional subject files include many relating to his research interests and engineering consulting projects. Of particular interest are numerous letters from Bernard Berenson. There is also correspondence with Belle da Costa Greene, as well as files concerning the Kermes beetle (a source of crimson dyes in the middle ages). Food and gardening subject files reflect Thompson's career as a writer and columnist on these subjects.
Writings consist mainly of manuscripts, drafts, research and miscellaneous notes; also included are diaries, poems, miscellaneous items, and a music score. Daniel Varney Thompson's personal and professional writings include two diaries, poems, and student writings. Most of his extant writings are on art-related topics, science and technology. Among the notes is an index to medieval manuscripts on craftsmanship in major European libraries was compiled by Thompson in 1935. His work on the subject remains unpublished and his notes are extremely valuable since some of the materials noted were lost in World War II. Scientific and technical notebooks, along with various wirings and reports, document projects undertaken as a technical consultant and engineer. The food and gardening writings are extensive and consist of manuscripts and notes for articles and columns, and for a book-length compilation of these writings. Among the writings by other authors are diaries of his mother and wife, and a music score by his brother, Randall Thompson.
Artwork by Daniel Varney Thompson, Mary Sargent McKean, and Henry Winslow consists of drawings, prints, watercolors, a sketchbook, and an oil painting. Printed material includes articles and book reviews by Daniel Varney Thompson, and items about or mentioning him and his family. Also found are articles and books about art, history, medieval studies, science and technology, and food and gardening topics.
Photographs are of artwork, people, places and miscellaneous subjects. Images of people are mainly Thompson and family members.
Biographical information includes certificates and diplomas, passports, and wills. The item pre-dating Thompson's birth is a family document: the marriage certificate of Samuel Cogswell and Sarah Williams.
Other information about the Thompson family is included in Thompson's diaries and those of his mother and wife, found among the writings (Series 4). Some printed material (Series 6) concerns the career of his brother, composer Randall Thompson, and other items mention his wife.
Correspondence documents Daniel Varney Thompson's personal and professional life. Mr. Thompson's brief notes about major correspondents immediately precede the correspondence. Personal correspondence with friends and family includes many letters exchanged with his wife during their courtship and, later, when absent from home. Among the other family correspondence are a small number of letters from his parents, children, and brother, the composer Randall Thompson. Professional correspondence documents Thompson's academic career, research, and writing, and his later work as a technical consultant and engineer.
Correspondence concerning Thompson's food and garden writing career and additional personal and professional correspondence is scattered among the Subject Files (Series 3).
Subject files contain varying combinations of correspondence, printed material, photographs, notes and writings relating to Thompson's areas of interest.
Personal and professional subject files include many relating to engineering consulting projects and research interests. Of particular interest are the files on Bernard Berenson consisting of many letters to Thompson dated 1933-1957 and letters from Nicky Mariano, 1959-1966, and Creighton Gilbert, 1968. All of these items appear on microfilm reel 888. Also of note are a file titled Belle da Costa Greene concerning background information and the circumstances surrounding the death of her adopted son. Extensive correspondence, notes, photographs, and research materials (much photocopied) document Thompson's interest in Kermes beetles, the source of crimson dyes in the Middle Ages.
Food and gardening subject files document Thompson's career as a writer and columnist on these subjects. Included are extensive files of correspondence with readers, as well as editorial correspondence.
Writings consist mainly of manuscripts, drafts, research and miscellaneous notes; also included are diaries, poems, miscellaneous items, and a music score. Additional writings by Thompson and other authors are found among the subject files (Series 3).
The personal and professional writings of Daniel Varney Thompson are on art-related topics, science and technology. An index to medieval manuscripts on craftsmanship in major European libraries was compiled by Thompson in 1935 (2 card files). His work on the subject remains unpublished and his notes are extremely valuable since some of the materials noted were lost in World War II. In addition, there are notes and research materials relating to Thompson's translation work. His scientific and technical notebooks (10 vols.) and various writings and reports document projects undertaken as a technical consultant and engineer from the late 1930s through 1960s. Also extant are two diaries, poems, and student writings.
Thompson's food and garden writings consist of manuscripts, drafts and notes for articles and columns, and for a book-length compilation of these writings.
Writings by other authors include diaries of Thompson's mother and wife and a music score by his brother, Randall Thompson.
This series includes drawings, prints, watercolors, and an oil painting. A small number of drawings, prints and a sketchbook containing pencil sketches and watercolors are by Daniel V. Thompson.
Items of particular interest are concert programs and articles about/mentioning noted American composer Randall Thompson, the older brother of Daniel Varney Thompson, and material concerning Daniel Varney Thompson and the Thompson Family. Also included is Le memorie di un pittore di quadric antichi, a book by Inicio Federico Joni under whom Thompson studied medieval and Renaissance painting techniques while in Italy in 1923.
A significant amount of additional printed material can be found in the Subject Files (Series 3).
Photographs are of artwork, people, places and miscellaneous subjects. The majority of photographs of people are of Daniel V. Thompson and family members. Other individuals portrayed are Edward Forbes with colleagues and family at Villa Curonia, Shaw and Margaret Sargent McKean, and a number of unidentified people. Some Subject Files (Series 3) also include photographs.
The scattered papers of arts editor Domenica Thompson measure 0.6 linear feet and date from 1965 to 1973. Found are records relating to Thompson's time as editor of Chicago Midwest Art and Midwestern Art Reviews and Chicago Gallery Guide. Also found are letters and publicity material for the Chicago New Art Association and scattered photos of artists.
Materials relate to Thompson's time as editor of Chicago Midwest Art, Midwestern Art Reviews and Chicago Gallery Guide, and as a member of the Chicago New Art Association. Found are Aegis Publishing Company records, correspondence and subscription confirmation and requests, drafts of issues of publications, and printed material. Chicago New Art Association records concern two symposia: "Art and the Law" and "Art and Science." Of note is a lecture given by Armin D. Lehman for Chicago Midwest Art. Also found is an illustrated essay by Dr. Irwin Russ and photographs of artists and exhibitions. Within records relating to the Chicago New Art Association is correspondence from Gyorgy Kepes.
Sketches by various 19th and early 20th century artists mainly relating to life on the western frontier.
REEL 3282: Sketches by Alfred T. Agate, Joseph Drayton, W.L. Atkinson, J. Baker, Albert Beirstadt, George Douglas Brewerton, Eldridge Ayer Burbank, Louisa Corbaux, F.O.C. Darley, John Gunter, Edward M. Kern, J. Ross Browne, and J.T. Moore.
REEL 3283: Sketches by Leonard H. Reedy.
Pencil sketches.
The records of the New York Tibor de Nagy Gallery measure 43.9 linear feet and date from 1941-2016. The records document the activities of the gallery through business records and correspondence, exhibition files, artist files, financial and legal records, inventory records, a small amount of records of the Houston Branch, and exhibition announcements.
Business records include correspondence and administrative files. Business correspondence is with clients, curators, galleries, museums, colleges and universities, organizations, and publications, such as the Museum of Modern Art, Art Dealers Association, National Institute of Arts and Letters, United States Information Agency, The Hirshhorn Museum, Art News, Art in America, Pauli Hirsch, Jacqueline Kennedy, Charles Penney, Nelson Rockefeller, and many others. Correspondence concerns sales, purchases, shipping, loans, general exhibitions, publicity, events, publications and publishing, and other topics. Additional documents found within the correspondence files are purchase invoices, inquiries, shipping receipts, and photographs. Correspondence with artists is found in the Artist Files series. Administrative files concern day-to-day operations and include leases and construction documents, incorporation, insurance, art appraisals, art framing, and other general business affairs.
Exhibition files document many exhibitions held at the Gallery and include clippings and research materials, exhibition catalogs, exhibit and gallery plans, correspondence, and photographs, some in digital form. Some loan agreements and shipping receipts are also included.
Artist files document business affairs with individual artists and also contain collected information on artists. Typically, there are several files on each artist which may include printed materials, biographies, consignments, loans documentation, sales documentation, correspondence, photographic material, publicity, and reviews. Artists well represented among these files include Rosemarie Castoro, Ray Ciarrocchi, Robert Goodnough, Harold Gregor, Red Grooms (including a transcript of "A Conversation with Marison and Red Grooms"), Joyce Kozloff, Peter Reginato, Tony Robbin, Leatrice Rose, and Nancy Witteman-Widrig.
Financial records include incomplete runs of billing statements, expenses and cash disbursements, paid and unpaid invoices, and sales and shipping receipts. Inventory records consist primarily of index cards and/or sheets that document stock, consignments, loans, sales, and shipping.
A relatively small amount of Houston branch records include announcements, clippings, correspondence, financial information including consignments, income, invoices, and statements, photographs, publicity materials and a research file on Houston art museums.
Exhibition announcements promote the gallery's exhibitions for artists including Joe Brainard, Shirley Jaffe, Fairfield Porter, Rosemarie Castoro, Alfred Leslie, and many others.
This series includes business records, some financial records, and correspondence with business partners of the gallery including clients, colleagues, other galleries and museums, institutions, corporations, and publications. These materials reflect the ongoing business of the gallery from its foundation until Tibor de Nagy's death in 1993.
Business correspondence with other art galleries, museums, university galleries and museums, corporations, and historical organizations. Enclosures document the transfer of artworks, either through purchase or loan, including invoices, contracts, agreements, photographs and shipping receipts. Correspondents include the Museum of Modern Art, Art Dealers Association, The National Institute of Arts and Letters, United States Information Agency, The Hirshhorn Museum, and foreign galleries.
Correspondence between the gallery and various customers and clients interested in specific artworks or artists as well as curators and other gallery owners. Documents include purchase invoices, inquiries, shipping receipts, and photographs. Correspondents include Pauli Hirsch, Jacqueline Kennedy, Charles Penney, Nelson Rockefeller, as well as Tricia Collins and Richard Milazzo.
Correspondence and records regarding publication advertisements and publicity for the gallery. Enclosures include price lists and mock-ups of ads, as well as mailing lists and clippings. Some articles and brief essays about the gallery and upcoming exhibitions are also included. Publications and periodicals include the New York Times, Art International, Harper's Bazaar, and radio station WNCN 104.3.
Records and correspondence reflecting the day-to-day operations of the gallery and business procedures. Included are leases and construction documents for the various premises occupied by the gallery such as floor plans, maintenance, transfers, renovations and restoration. Other documents include employment records and resumes, an incorporation memo, insurance documentation and appraisals, security systems, a visitors book, and orders for framing artworks.
Oversized material housed in OV 46.
Various correspondence about day to day operations and inquiries, as well as miscellaneous correspondence and mailing lists.
This series documents various exhibitions held at the Gallery as group shows, individual artist exhibitions, and retrospectives. Exhibition materials include clippings and research materials, exhibition catalogs, exhibit and gallery plans, correspondence, and photographs, including some in digital format. Some loan agreements and shipping receipts are also included.
These files comprise both daily business materials and collected information on artists. Typically, there are several files on each artist which may include announcements, biographies, business (including consignment, loans, and sales), catalogs, correspondence, photographic material, publicity, and reviews. Among the material on Walter Darby Bannard are three metal printing plates. Some of the more extensively covered artists include Rosemarie Castoro, Ray Ciarrocchi, Robert Goodnough, Harold Gregor, Red Grooms (including a transcript of "A Conversation with Marison and Red Grooms"), Joyce Kozloff, Peter Reginato, Tony Robbin, Leatrice Rose, and Nancy Witteman-Widrig.
Oversized material housed in OV 46.
Oversized material housed in OV 46
Contains 1 videocassette (VHS) Original label reads "Adolph Rosenblatt interview on exhibit 1981" [for Gallery Group Show (1982)]
Materials include mostly incomplete runs of billing procedures and statements, expenses and cash disbursements, paid and unpaid invoices, and sales and shipping receipts. There are also files on accountants used by the gallery, as well as legal actions including a lawsuit involving its landlord and other tenants, as well as a discrepancy of the gallery's name similar to another gallery.
Inventory records consist primarily of index cards and/or sheets that document stock, consignments, loans, sales, and shipping. Information on the inventory cards often includes artwork titles and description; inventory numbers; dates received, loaned, returned to artist, and sold; purchaser's names; some exhibition dates; prices; and notes of expressions of interest by clients. The most heavily represented artists include Rosemarie Castoro, Ray Ciarrocchi, Jane Freilicher, Robert Goodnough, Grace Hartigan, Joyce Kozloff, Rafael Mahdavi, Ann Purcell, Archie Rand, Peter Reginato, Larry Rivers, Richard Tum Suden, and Jane Wilson. Additionally, there is some material on the Houston branch gallery; additional Houston branch records are arranged in series 6.
Artist cards documenting artworks held by the gallery by artist. Information on cards include title, price, date, size, media, exhibition dates, loans, and occasionally the names of clients.
These cards document artworks that were returned to the artist and no longer in the gallery's possession. Information on cards may include title, date, size, media, date received and date returned.
These cards document artworks that were sold by the gallery. Information on the cards may include title, date, media, date purchased, customer/buyer name, price sold, and date shipped.
Records and cards documenting clients, collectors, consignments, and loans. Materials may include information such as client or collector name, their artistic interests, exhibition information, as well as loan agreements and shipping receipts. Also included are general inventory logs.
Houston branch records include announcements, clippings, correspondence, financial information including consignments, income, invoices, and statements, photographs, publicity materials and a research file on Houston art museums.
Exhibition announcements promote the gallery's exhibitions for artists including Joe Brainard, Shirley Jaffe, Fairfield Porter, Rosemarie Castoro, Alfred Leslie, and many others.
Resumes; letters, 1969-1977, from museums, colleges and universities and others; a letter from Tiemann to the SAN ANTONIO EXPRESS about art criticism, 1977; newspaper and magazine clippings about Tiemann's works of art; newspaper clippings of reviews by Tiemann in the SAN ANTONIO EXPRESS; printed material; posters; a brochure about Trinity University's Department of Art; a bulletin from the Roswell Museum and Art Center, 1971; newsletters from Laguna Gloria Art Museum, Austin, Texas, and the College of Fine and Applied Arts, University of Texas at San Antonio, 1974 and 1980; photographs of Tiemann, his works and gallery installations; and a cover illustration by Tiemann, 1980.
One scrapbook compiled by Tilton containing photographs of artists John Rollin Tilton and William Wetmore Story in their studios in Rome, of Paul Akers, of writers Robert Browning, Thomas Carlyle, and Alfred Tennyson; photographs of views of Italy, Switzerland, Scotland, Gibraltar, and New York state; photographs of works of art by Emma Stebbins, Tilton's aunt, and by old masters; watercolors by Tilton, H. Coleman, Thomas Hotchkiss, and Tilton's brother Paul H. Tilton.
A resume; a letter; photographs; exhibition catalogs and announcements; and clippings.
Resumes; a typescript, "In Profile: Alton S. Tobey," by Wayne Baruch; letters concerning mural commissions, gifts of portraits, and financial matters; receipts; 3 notebooks; exhibition announcements; clippings and other printed material; and photographs of Tobey and his works of art.
Four letters from Mark Tobey to Helen Freeman Corle, relating to one of his paintings.
The Abraham Joel Tobias papers date from 1913 to 2000 and measure 2.8 linear feet. Through project and exhibition files, printed material, correspondence, and photographs, the collection provides an overview of Tobias's career as a painter and muralist in New York City.
General correspondence regards mural proposals, exhibitions, professional activities, and museums' acquisitions of artwork by Tobias. A file of correspondence with the Fine Arts Federation of New York concerns efforts to recognize murals by Irving Block, James Brooks, Philip Evergood, Abraham Lishinsky, José Clemente Orozco, and Max Spivak as landmarks; it also includes minutes of meetings, 1988-1995, that reflect Tobias's service as a board member. Other correspondence is with friends and artists including Edward Caswell, George Gaber, Filia Holtzman, Vincent La Gambina, and Alton S. Tobey.
Project files document murals such as: The Four Freedoms, Midwood High School, Brooklyn, New York, honoring students and teachers who died in World War II (circa 1946); Birth for the maternity ward at Mount Sinai Hospital, New York City (1951-1953); and Medical Science and Medical Research, Long Island Jewish Hospital (1954). The Science and Engineering project file (1958) contains a patent certificate for striated plastic, a material Tobias used in two murals. Also of interest is correspondence with the Harman Foundation regarding a documentary film about Tobias's use of ethyl silicate for outdoor murals. Among the exhibitions documented are: "Plastics U.S.A.," "New York WPA Artists Then and Now," and "Abraham Joel Tobias: Sculptural Paintings of the 1930s."
Printed material consists of announcements, invitations, solo and group exhibition catalogs, and clippings relating to Tobias's artistic career. Also found are pamphlets he designed for the Congress of Industrial Organizations. Photographs are of Tobias's artwork and the artist with friends and family. There is a video recording of an interview with Tobias conducted by Brendan Gill in 1995.
Among the biographical materials are curriculum vitae, military records, awards and certificates, obituaries and condolence letters, a scrapbook documenting Tobias's early artistic career and personal financial records.
photocopy
General correspondence contains letters, drafts, and carbon copies of letters sent by Tobias regarding proposed mural commissions with responses from various trade unions and public institutions. There is scattered correspondence with museums such as the Brooklyn Museum, Guggenheim Museum, Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, The Jewish Museum, North Carolina Museum of Art, and Seattle Art Museum. Correspondence with the National Museum of American Art concerns the acquisition of Tobias's shaped canvas, Sky Formation (1935); other letters concern the donation of two life drawings to the National Gallery. Also found are letters of recommendation written on Tobias's behalf.
Project and exhibition files contain varying combinations of the following: correspondence, photographs, publicity material, legal documents, and proposals. Printed material includes announcements catalogs, and clippings. Some material is in Russian.
The project file for Science and Engineering (1958) contains a patent certificate for striated plastic, a material that Tobias employed in two murals. Other material of interest is correspondence with the Harmon Foundation regarding a documentary film on Tobias's use of ethyl silicate for outdoor murals.
Oversized material housed in Box 4 and OV 5
Oversized material housed in Box 4
Oversized materials housed in Box 4
oversized material housed in OV 5
from Box 1, folders 24-27
from Box 2, folder 1
from Box 2, folders 2-7
from Box 1, folders 24-27
from Box 2, folder 17
All writings are by Tobias. Essays include "The Coexistence of Science and Art," "Thoughts on Mural Painting," and "The Statue of Liberty and Public Art."
Exhibition catalogs include: Abraham Tobias (1939), Delphic Studios, New York City; 27th Annual Exhibition of the Brooklyn Society of Artists (1943), Brooklyn Museum, New York; The Architectural League of New York Gold Medal Awards, 1950-1952 (1952); New York City WPA Art (1977), Parsons School of Design, New York City; and Abraham Joel Tobias: Sculptural Paintings of the 1930s (1987-1988), The Jane Voorhees Zimmerli Art Museum, Rutgers University, New Jersey.
The congress of Industrial Organizations pamphlets were designed by Tobias.
oversized material housed in Box 4
from Box 3, folder 4
This series contains photocopies of Tobias's sketches, including a self-portrait.
photocopies
The majority of this series consists of photographs of sketches, murals, and shaped canvases by Tobias. Also found are views of the artist with friends and family.
some photocopies
Among the topics discussed in an interview of Tobias conducted by Brendan Gill are his shaped canvases and murals created for the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn. Sponsored by the New York City Art Commission Archives, the interview was conducted at the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn on December 19, 1995.
Exhibition announcements and catalogs, undated and 1939-1961; report on "Improving Scenic Coast Route", 1959; a clipping, 1954; a photograph of Tolerton; and 6 photographs of his sculpture.
ADDITION: Photos (personal and artwork), catalogs, correspondence, and a scrapbook of clipping. Also included are brochures of shows of graphic art and a portfolio from the Hill Gallery, San Francisco, operated by Tolerton's father.
The papers of painter George Tooker measure 5.1 linear feet and date from circa 1851 to 2010. The papers document Tooker's personal and professional life through biographical material, correspondence, project files, gallery files, exhibition files, printed material, artwork and one sketchbook, and numerous photographs, including some taken by noted photographer George Platt Lynes.
Biographical material consists of membership and travel documents, writings on and by Tooker on his circle, an address book, resume, and papers regarding Tooker's education. Also included are biographical material related to Tooker's partner William Christopher who passed in 1973. A 1978 interview with Vermont Public radio on two sound reels is also featured.
Correspondence is with friends, colleagues, and organizations. Correspondents include Isabel Bishop, Paul Cadmus, Walter Bachinski, William Christopher, Otto Dix, Jared and Margaret French, Ralph Ginzburg, Xavier Gonzalez, Robert Isaacson, Edward Laning, Lincoln Kirstein, Lee Nordness, Bernard Perlin, Joan Peterson, Theodore Stamos, Bridget Tichenor, and others. Also included are family correspondence and correspondence regarding the Estate of William Christopher.
Project files document Tooker's commissions including the set and costume design for Gian-Carlo Menotti's opera The Saint of Bleecker Street and Tooker's participation in the selection of candidates for the Vestris Prize for Choreography. Files contain correspondence, business documents, printed ephemera, sketches, photographs, three volumes of vocal scores, and textile samples.
Gallery records include business correspondence and consignments with various key galleries in Tooker's career spanning the 1960s to the end of his career including D.C. Moore Gallery, Marisa Del Re Gallery, and Durlacher Bros..
Exhibition records include documents regarding the organization of several select exhibitions in Tooker's career including an early retrospective at the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco (1974) and a later traveling retrospective from 2008-2009.
Printed material consists of invitations, press releases, news clippings and exhibition catalogs documenting the careers of both George Tooker and William Christopher.
Artwork includes numerous sketchbooks, loose drawings, and sketches from Tooker's studies at the Art Students' League in the mid 1940s, in addition to an early ex-libris print created by Tooker in his youth. Also included is a sketchbook by William Christopher, as well as a study for the work The Subway, in the collection of the Whitney Museum of American Art.
Photographic materials depict Tooker's family life as well as his early artistic collaborations depicted in a number of black and white photographs taken by George Platt Lynes and PaJaMa in the mid to late 1940s. A majority of the photographs depict artists and friends, among them: George Tooker and his companion William Christopher, Paul Cadmus, Jared and Margaret French, Lincoln and Fidelma Kirstein, Glenway Wescott, Monroe Wheeler, and Bridget Tichenor. Other photographs are of Tooker building his home, gardening, and working in his studio in Hartland, Vermont. Also included are installation views from the exhibition Painting in the United States (1949) at the Carnegie Institute in Pennsylvania. There are also a fair amount of photographs, transparencies, slides and negatives documenting artwork from both the studios of George Tooker and his late partner William Christopher.
Biographical material consists of membership and travel documents, writings on and by Tooker on his circle, an address book, resume, and papers regarding Tooker's education. Also included are biographical material related to Tooker's partner William Christopher who passed in 1973. A 1978 interview with Vermont Public radio on two sound reels is also featured.
Correspondence is with friends, colleagues, and organizations. Correspondents include Isabel Bishop, Paul Cadmus, Walter Bachinski, William Christopher, Otto Dix, Jared and Margaret French, Ralph Ginzburg, Xavier Gonzalez, Robert Isaacson, Edward Laning, Lincoln Kirstein, Lee Nordness, Bernard Perlin, Joan Peterson, Theodore Stamos, Bridget Tichenor, and others. Also included are family correspondence and correspondence regarding the Estate of William Christopher.
Project files document Tooker's commissions including the set and costume design for Gian-Carlo Menotti's opera The Saint of Bleecker Street and Tooker's participation in the selection of candidates for the Vestris Prize for Choreography. Files contain correspondence, business documents, printed ephemera, sketches, photographs, three volumes of vocal scores, and textile samples.
(Includes photographs, sketches, and vocal scores)
Gallery records include business correspondence and consignments with various key galleries in Tooker's career spanning the 1960s to the end of his career including D.C. Moore Gallery, Marisa Del Re Gallery, and Durlacher Bros..
Exhibition records include documents regarding the organization of several select exhibition in Tooker's career including an early retrospective at the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco (1974) and a later traveling retrospective from 2008-2009.
Printed material consists of invitations, press releases, news clippings and exhibition catalogs documenting the careers of both George Tooker and William Christopher.
Artwork includes numerous sketchbooks, loose drawings, and sketches from Tooker's studies at the Art Students' League in the mid 1940s, in addition to an early ex-libris print created by Tooker in his youth. Also included is a sketchbook by William Christopher. Also included is a study for the 1950 painting The Subway, in the collection of the Whitney Museum of American Art.
Photographic materials depict Tooker's family life as well as his early artistic collaborations depicted in a number of black and white photographs taken by George Platt Lynes and PaJaMa in the mid to late 1940s. A majority of the photographs depict artists and friends, among them: George Tooker and his companion William Christopher, Paul Cadmus, Jared and Margaret French, Lincoln and Fidelma Kirstein, Glenway Wescott, Monroe Wheeler, and Bridget Tichenor. Other photographs are of Tooker building his home, gardening, and working in his studio in Hartland, Vermont. Also included are installation views from the exhibition Painting in the United States (1949) at the Carnegie Institute in Pennsylvania. There are also a fair amount of photographs, transparencies, slides and negatives documenting artwork from both the studios of George Tooker and his late partner William Christopher.
(Includes studio views)
(Includes installation views and related material)