The Wheeler materials include biology lecture and laboratory notes, correspondence, an autobiography and a scrapbook. The bulk of this collection are two bound copies of the notes from the biology classes that George Wheeler took as a student at the Rice Institute through the years 1915 to 1918.
Business papers, correspondence, photographs and memorabilia related to the James Lockhart Autry family of Texas (1875-present) and of North Carolina (1832), Tennessee (1824-1840) and Mississippi (1840-1875) show the life style of a family who moved into Texas and played an important role in developing both the social and economic framework of Houston. Among the business papers are correspondence and legal briefs from the terms Autry served as general counsel to the Texas Company, president of Fidelity Trust Company, and vice-president and general counsel of the American Republics Corporation.
Correspondence, documents, Civil War materials, clippings, and other papers of Hamman including accounts of early Texas historical events and political opinions as well as his legal and business papers regarding oil land, gas, and minerals; together with papers of his wife, Ella Hamman; papers of John Hamman (1879-1966), founder of Hamman Exploration Col, later Hamman Oil and Refining Co., pioneer in the development of mineral resources in Texas, and lawyer specializing in land and corporation law; and papers of other family members. Includes material relating to Hamman's service with 4th Texas Infantry. Persons represented include Sam Houston and Robert E. Lee.
Original personal material and photocopied professional materials relating to economist and foreign policy expert Will Clayton and family, dating from 1897-1998. In addition to serving the U.S. government in a number of capacities, Clayton was in cotton business, and a co-founder of Anderson, Clayton and Company, based in Houston, Texas.
The Berkeley collection consists of letters and British naval orders spanning the years 1808 to 1813. All of the letters in this collection concern the naval operations under Sir George Cranfield Berkeley 's command. They include naval appointments, administrative orders, dismissals, discharges, conscription of U.S. seamen, and coordination of supply ships with the British Army. The letters in the collection were written primarily by men associated with the British Admiralty, the British Embassy in Portugal, or the British Army in Portugal.
Chiefly letters of Moore; together with correspondence, poems, engravings, clippings, and photos. Includes material relating to Wilfred S. Dowden, editor of Moore's letters. Correspondents include William Lisle Bowles, Lord and Lady Holland, Thomas Longman, Ellen Moore, James Power, Lord John Russell, Sir Walter Scott, and Mary Shelley.
Papers related to F. Curtis Michel's participation in NASA's Scientist-Astronaut program (1965-1969); materials (primarily concerned with the Gemini and Apollo Programs) include information on astronaut training, experiments, technical reports, course and seminar notes, handbooks, familiarization materials, training manuals, scientific reports and reprints, photographs, correspondence, and memorabilia; also included are academic papers from his years as a graduate student in physics at California Institute of Technology, and from his academic position at Rice University.
Correspondence; diaries; mss. of writings; publications; materials on organizations including Unesco and Charles Darwin Foundation for the Galapagos Isles, conferences, including CCTA/IUCN Symposium on the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources in Modern African States (Arusha, Tanzania, 1961), Darwin Centennial Celebration (University of Chicago, 1959), and Ciba Foundation Symposium on Man and His Future (London, England, 1963), travel, and his tenure as professor at Rice Institute; photos; memorabilia; and subject files, relating to Huxley's interests in biology (especially taxonomy, relative growth, evolutionary theory, genetics, and ethology), social evolution, eugenics, population control, cancer, conservation, and humanism; together with materials of his wife, Juliette Huxley. Correspondents include members of the Asquith, Darwin, and Huxley families and such scientists, artists, authors, and social figures as John Randal Baker, Sybille Bedford, Benjamin Britten, Jacob Bronowski, Paulo Carneiro, Kenneth Clark, Gavin De Beer, Theodosius Dobzhansky, Cyrus Eaton, T.S. Eliot, Richard Goldschmidt, Jane Goodall, Ernst Haeckel, J.B.S. Haldane, Alister Hardy, Jacquetta Hawkes, L.S.B. Leakey, Claude Levi-Strauss, Jacques Loeb, Konrad Lorenz, Rene Maheu, Ernst Mayr, P.B. Medawar, Henry Moore, Thomas Hunt Morgan, Herman J. Muller, Joseph Needham, Jean Piaget, Herbert Read, Bertrand Russell, Margaret Sanger, George Gaylord Simpson, Charles Singer, Stephen Spender, Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, Niko Tinbergen, Otto Warburg, H.G. Wells, Edmund B. Wilson, Leonard Woolf, and Solly Zuckerman.
Correspondence, memos, oral history interviews, political pamphlets, broadsides, and clippings, relating to Hall's involvement with the Texas and national Democratic parties and soil and water conservation and improvement. Correspondents include Minnie Fisher Cunningham, Hubert H. Humphrey, Lyndon B. Johnson, Sam Rayburn, Jim Wright, and Ralph Yarborough.
The papers detail the academic and architectural career of William Ward Watkin. Included in the collection are personal information, business correspondence, construction photographs and architectural drawings of the early Rice Institute, and drawings of projects from his private architectural career.
Correspondence, drawings, maps, scrapbooks, pamphlets, newspapers, and other papers, of John Patterson Osterhout (1826-1903), relating to his early life in Pennsylvania, early impressions of Texas, work as a judge, service in the Confederate Army, and leader of the Republican Party in Texas, and of his son, Paul Osterhout (1859-1944), relating to his studies at Baylor University and University of Pennsylvania Dept. of Medicine, activities fighting yellow fever during the digging of the Panama Canal, and his career as a physician, planter, and consul in Colombia, Nicaragua, and Panama. Includes material concerning military service during the Texas Republic, Baptists in antebellum Texas, and other Osterhout family members.
Correspondence and manuscripts of writings relating to Bochner's scholarly works chiefly written during his years at Princeton (1933-1968) and at Rice University (1968-1982); financial and legal papers; and off-prints (36 linear ft.) closely related to his work. Papers reflecting the Princeton years treat mainly his work in harmonic analysis, Fourier series, functions of several complex variables, and probability theory; those for the latter period at Rice concern the history and philosophy of science. Correspondents include many distinguished scholars of the 20th century.
The William Goyen papers consist of correspondence, manuscripts and notes, serial publications, reviews and publicity, and proofs and galleys.
Diary written during the U.S. Civil War while Green served in the Union Army (chiefly in Virginia) with the 5th Michigan Infantry Regiment, Army of the Potomac; entries include records of clothing, pay, letters received, and places visited by his regiment while on campaign.
The Dillingham Family Papers, consisting of approximately 900 items or 1.25 linear feet, follows the history of a prominent Texas family from 1858 to 1958. Correspondence, manuscripts, printed material, photographs, journals, poetry, and newspaper clippings show the life style of a family who moved into Texas during the prosperous era of the late nineteenth century and played an important role in developing both the social and economic framework of Houston.
This collection of speeches, correspondences, reports, and photographs documents the work of Albert Thomas, U.S. Representative for Harris County, Texas, from 1936-1966. Albert Thomas was the first Rice Alumnus to serve in Congress. He graduated from Rice Institute in 1920.
The Fondren Papers provide a record of the Fondren family's acquisition and dispersal of money in Houston and across Texas during the first three-quarters of this century and offers additional information on the financial workings of several well-known institutions and corporations. Formats include correspondence and financial documents.
These papers cover Houston born chaplain and educator Harris Masterson, Jr.'s life from his schooling through his career with the YMCA. Highlights include correspondence with family members, photographs, school materials and his career.
The Ricker Papers include the notes and papers related to physicist Norman Hurd Ricker's work in industrial research and in his academic career. The 25 boxes contain Ricker's autobiography, published papers, photographs depicting his experience at Rice University and many of his field expeditions, as well as notes, calculations, and graphs in various media, used in his research and writing.
The papers of medieval historian Dr. Floyd Seyward Lear include correspondence, departmental and university reports and memoranda, teaching materials, research notes, and a variety of memorabilia, including photographs which document his long tenure at Rice University (1925-1975) as well as the history of the University itself.
This material covers the architectural career of the Ms. Strange's father, William Ward Watkin, including his private architecture practice and well as his relationship with Rice Institute as Supervising Architect, touching briefly on his personal life. The material was gathered by Ms. Strange and much of it served as research for the book: William Ward Watkin and The Rice Institute by Patrick James Nicholson (published 1991 by Gulf Pub. Co.).
The collection holds the chemistry research materials during a portion of Dr. Robert Curl's tenure at Rice University through 2012. The materials, arranged chronologically, include typescript copies, proofs, notes, charts, correspondence and reprints regarding published and unfinished research. Also contains information relating to Curl's positions on non-Rice boards and committees.
The papers of anthropologist Dr. Edward Norbeck, an expert in the cultures of the Pacific Ocean area, consist of correspondence, lecture notes, article drafts dating from his years at Rice University and at the University of California at Berkeley.
This collection consists of a small amount of correspondence, maps, typographical and proofreading instructions in regard to the publication of Rath's The Provisional Austrian Regime in Lombardy-Venetia, 1814-1815 and two typed drafts of the monograph.
The collection consists of 3 folders of correspondence dating from 1803-1810, between British Admiral Sir John Thomas Duckworth as Naval Commander-in-Chief at Jamaica and Vice-Admiral Charles Stirling (1760-1833), Resident Commissioner at Jamaica relating to repairs to ships, stores, defenses and surveys.
Chiefly letters to Louisa (Neumann) Bering, a resident of Houston, Tex., from her brothers and sisters, including letters from her brother, Emil Neumann, describing his service in the Confederate Army, stationed at Fort Eagle Grove (Fort Moore) and Galveston, Tex.; together with clippings and photos. Includes material relating to land in Texas, Bering family, and Little Rock, AR, during the Civil War.
The collection consists of correspondence, college materials, pamphlets and programs, materials related to the construction of Sewall residence and the Sewall's Japan trip. The dates for this collection range from 1847 to 1959 with the bulk of the material ranging from 1935 to 1948.
The papers of Billie Carr, political organizer in the liberal wing of the Democratic Party, include correspondence, office files, photographs, and memorabilia pertaining to her work in the Harris County Democrats, Texas Democrats, Democratic National Committee, New Democratic Coalition, and Billie Carr & Associates.
Houston-born Ralph Anderson Jr. (1923-1990) studied architecture at Rice Institute and earned a bachelor's degree in 1943. He was inducted into the U.S. Army in 1943 and fought in the Battle of the Bulge where he was wounded and awarded a medal for his bravery. After the war, he returned to Rice and continued his studies in architecture. He joined the architectural firm of Wilson, Morris and Crain and eventually rose to become a partner and later president of the company. The papers cover a broad spectrum of Ralph Anderson's life, including his family, school, university years, his combat service in World War II with the U.S. Army, and his professional life as an architect.
Photographs, correspondence, maps, charts, and memorabilia collected by McCaine while employed at Project Manager for the Army Corps of Engineers during the construction of the Manned Space Center (Johnson Space Center), 1962-1964 and while working with NASA, 1964-1979.
The bulk of this material consists of business records of the Brown & Root firm and Brown Shipbuilding Co., relating in particular to building projects and joint ventures with other companies such as Zapata Offshore, Texas Gulf Sulphur and ARMCO Steel, as well as internal operations of the firm. Formats include correspondence, internal memos, project site drawings, photographs, reports, notes, and newsclippings.
Most of this collection, which dates from 1840 to 1878, is comprised of correspondence from British politician and statesman Benjamin Disraeli to Rev. Clubbe, who occupied the position of vicar at the living of Hughenden near High Wycombe in Buckinghamshire, from approximately 1851 to 1868.
The papers of Nobel Prize winning chemist and physicist Richard E. Smalley are comprised of the lectures, presentations and supporting materials leading to Smalley's discovery of fullerenes, which eventually lead to his Nobel Prize. Included are lectures and presentations, conferences attended, awards received, and articles written. Copies of Dr. Smalley's actual laboratory research notes and materials are included. The papers also include personal memorabilia. Smalley was affiliated with Rice University from 1976 until his death in 2005.
This collection consists of books, magazines, newspapers, clippings, photographs, photograph albums, maps, town plans, reports, writings and memorabilia, which were collected by Dick Hedges while he was serving with the U. S. Army in Europe in World War II.
Playwright, scenarist and novelist, Edward Knoblock (1874-1945) was born in New York City and educated at Harvard, but spent most of his professional life living and working in Great Britain. The Knoblock papers are comprised of correspondence received by Knoblock between the years 1904 and 1936, relating to theater in Great Britain during the early 20th century. Most of Knoblock's correspondents in this collection are well-known literary figures of the day, or prominent managers and producers from the world of the theatre, including Sir William Nicholson (1872-1949).
Professional papers, manuscript notes and personal correspondence of Alan Dugald McKillop, Professor of English, Rice University. Included in the collection are: James Thomson letters (photocopies); Samuel Richardson letters (photocopies); Aaron Hill letters; typescripts of articles; reviews of McKillop's books; reviews by McKillop; offprints by McKillop, offprints of other authors (most autographed).
Rice University Baker College material, teaching and History Dept. records, academic and scholarly correspondence, notes and drafts of books, articles, and lectures, as well as a quantity of Renaissance-Reformation subject files, document the faculty and scholarly activities of Charles Garside Jr. (1927-1987). These papers cover the period 1949 to 1987. Well versed in history, literature, music, and the arts, Garside's particular area of scholarly interest was the Renaissance and the Reformation, especially the relationship between the Reformation and the arts. In addition, the papers reflect Garside's heavy involvement in the residential college system as a Baker Executive Associate.
The papers of Dickson Fagan (1903-1977), Austin, Texas attorney active in the Democratic Party, include correspondence with both state and national political figures as well as Fagan's personal and business subject files clippings, published materials and notes, dating from 1950-1978.
These photographs taken during the U.S. Civil War reflect a wide range of battles and sites, although not all are represented. The collection includes 84 photographs mounted on 8″ × 91/2″ boards, many labelled with caption information. The photographs were taken by a variety of photographers, including Mathew B. Brady and Alexander Gardner, and many have been published in "The Photographic History of the Civil War" or which are also available through the National Archives.
Official correspondence, organizational charts, committee lists, meetings and agendas, delegate information, faculty information, programs, invitations, thanks you letters, and newsclippings related to the inauguration of George Rupp, at Rice University, on Oct. 25, 1985.
Hanszen College is one of the four original colleges, which were established to house students. The college is named for Harry Clay Hanszen, a wealthy Texas oilman, who served as chairman of Rice's Board of Governors from 1946 to 1950. Formats include Cabinet meeting minutes, correspondence, news clippings, publications, handbooks, videos, brochures and theatrical events programs.
Documents, publications, minutes, including constitution and by-laws, as well as correspondence files, news clippings and theatrical information and social activities created and maintained by residents of Will Rice College. Will Rice was opened in 1912 and became one of the men's colleges in 1957. It went co-ed in 1977.
Correspondence, newsclippings, obituaries, minutes, freshman materials, publications, governmental and budget documents as well as other information relating to the general operation of Brown College. There are also files on the Brown students such as lists of members and room assignments. Brown College was dedicated on October 3, 1965 and was filled primarily by women who had volunteered to leave Jones College, then the only women's college, to start a new college.
The Houston Philosophical Society was established in 1920 at the University Club in downtown Houston to bring together the intellectual community both on and off campus. Many members of the Rice University community have been involved as leaders in the society. These records consist of minutes from the Executive Committee and general meetings, notices to members, treasurer's reports and other financial records, rosters and directories, new member nominations, constitutions and procedure guidelines.
The collection contains Jones College business material and ephemera such as college cabinet meeting minutes, publications, news clippings and other college documents, such as telephone lists, invitations, freshman information, etc. Jones College was the first dormitory at Rice University (Institute) for women and opened in September 1957.
Rosters, correspondence files, handbooks, diet minutes, committee records, fellows records, roommate questionnaires and more created and maintained by masters of Will Rice College. Will Rice was opened in 1912 and became one of the men's colleges in 1957. It went co-ed in 1977.
Baker College is one of the five original residential colleges at Rice University. These records consist of material related to college business, social activities, publications, and correspondence, as well as photographs, video, and scrapbooks.
The Rice Design Alliance, established in 1973, is a nonprofit educational organization dedicated to increasing greater public awareness of architecture, design and the environment. These materials represent RDA lectures, seminars, symposiums, exhibits and tours, which have involved the general public in issues related to the design of public spaces, parks, office buildings, retail centers and residential neighborhoods.
Letter written February 12, 1865, by General Horatio Wright (major general of volunteers in the Union Army), probably while at the siege of Richmond, Virginia, and addressed to "My dear Col[onel?]" (addressee's name is Col. Edward H. Wright, Newark, N.J., appearing below General Wright's signature), in which he tells of family news while on a recent leave, mentions troop activity following an unspecified 'late movement' of troops in the Army of the Potomac.
John A. Dix (soldier, attorney, and politician) was commissioned Major General by President Lincoln in 1861 and served in administrative positions during the Civil War, issuing the military pass in this collection during that time; after the war he became minister to France (1866-69), then returned to New York State to resume his professional and business activities. In his letter of December 1, 1869, written to "My dear Colonel," he discusses a recent land purchase and investment opportunity, and urges his friend to visit him soon.
Logbook of the British warship H.M.S. Princess Royal kept by Charles LeStrange, R.N. [Royal Navy] of a voyage (1864-1866) from Plymouth to Shanghai and Yokohama, by way of Madeira, Sierra Leone, Cape of Good Hope, Trincomalie, Singapore, and Bangkok.
Six letters from Civil War generals of the Union Army in reply to Mrs. E. H. Wright's request for their photographs; respondents include Generals J. J. Abercrombie, John Gross Barnard, Cyrus Bussey, George W. Cullum, William Hammond, and George Douglas Ramsay.
This collection is comprised of materials which Waldo Greene, a student of Thornton Wilder's, gathered about Wilder during Wilder's lifetime and up until Greene's death. Included among these materials are correspondence, bibliographies, newspaper and journal clippings, photographs, playbills, and copies of Wilder's typewritten journals.
Written in 1837 from Houston, Forrest writes at length to his wife about Houston, and the illness of their son; discusses the possible outbreak of war with Mexico; talks of the Texas Congress meeting. This four-page letter gives an early look at life in the Republic of Texas.
Letter written during the Civil War by an anonymous Union Army prisoner- of-war, dated December18, 1864, and addressed from Libby Prison in Richmond, Virginia, to United States Senator William Wright of New Jersey, describing his worsening health while held in close confinement in the prison as hostage for a Confederate officer imprisoned in West Virginia, and urging the senator to intercede on his behalf to secure his exchange and release.
Two journals kept by Samuel Storrow during the U.S. Civil War, the first while Storrow served as a corporal in the Massachusetts Volunteer Militia, 44th Regiment (September 20, 1862-June 18, 1863), and the second while serving in the Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, 2nd Regiment (September 1864- March 1865), during which time he was promoted to first lieutenant; in his entries Storrow describes movements of equipment and troops, camp life, weather, and military actions.
A leather-bound hand-written diary kept by John C. Crosby, first from 1861 to 1862 during the United States Civil War while Crosby served in the Seventh Maine Regiment of the Union army (probably as a hospital orderly), recording daily activities in tending the sick while moving about on campaign; then, from 1865 to 1868 after Crosby's return to civilian life, recording his activities and personal finances as a hired farm worker.
The papers in this collection are office records from the Rice University President's Office covering three administrations – Norman Hackerman, George Rupp and Malcolm Gillis. They are a combination of documents to and from Carl MacDowell as Assistant to the President, and in some cases the documents appear to be those directed to the acting president.
These records reflect the business conducted in the offices of Rice University Provost, (Acting) President, and Chancellor during Dr. Croneis' tenure in those positions, 1954-1970. Materials include correspondence, reports, and newsclippings pertaining to a wide variety of university activities. Records are arranged alphabetically according to folder titles assigned in the respective offices from which they came.
The collection represents the history of Beer-Bike, the race rules, resolution, reports, newsclippings, realia, and financial lists as well as some programs.
These records reflect the daily business of the Provost's Office under physicist Dr. Neal Lane's leadership (1986-93). They reveal the daily business of the Provost's Office, which has the overall responsibility for the institution's educational and research programs.
These records reflect the daily business of the Provost's office under physicist and astronomer William E. Gordon's leadership (1980-85). They reveal the daily business of the Provost's Office, which has the overall responsibility for the institution's educational and research programs.
These records reflect the daily business of the Provost's office under interim Provost James Kinsey and Provost David Auston (1993-). They reveal the daily business of the Provost's Office, which has the overall responsibility for the institution's educational and research programs.
The American Association of University Professors: Rice University chapter collection consists of folders containing meeting minutes, correspondence, membership rosters, newsletters and other documents representing the regular business of the Rice University chapter. Specific issues covered in the collection are academic freedom and freedom of the press at Rice University.
The bulk of these papers represent Barnes' writing and journalism career, from her early college years to her lengthy career at the Houston Post newspaper. Included are photocopies of her articles, columns, reviews and editorials, typescripts of her works, photographs, and a small amount of family and biographical materials.
Family correspondence, scrapbooks, and clippings of the Baker Family, from Captain James A. Baker (appointed Chairman of the Board, Rice Institute, 1891) through attorney James A. Baker, III (Rice Board of Trustees, Trustee Emeretus, 1993 - present). A small portion of the materials relate to the Baker, Botts, Garwood & Parker law firm (later known as Baker Botts law firm).
Correspondence from Capt. James A. Baker (Rice Institute Chairman, 1891-1941) to various family members and colleagues, newsclippings regarding William M. Rice and regarding Capt. Baker's death, and photographs of the Baker family.
Paul Cooper's papers document his professional career as a composer, music critic, author and teacher, at Rice University, University of Michigan, and University of Cincinnati. Formats include correspondence, compositions (scores), course notes and outlines, photographs, notes, performance, programs, and sound recordings; dates range from 1943-1995.
Judge Harris Masterson's papers relate almost exclusively to his legal practice and real estate dealings after he moved from Brazoria County, Texas, to Houston, dating from 1860-1942, bulk 1880-1920.
The collection consists of correspondence and land documents related to the personal, business and legal correspondence of the Groce family of Texas and 2 letters regarding the possible donation of an historic letter. Topics include family matters, plantation conditions, legal concerns and land dealings. Most of the letters were written in Texas and are to and from Jared Ellison Groce, Sr. and his sons, Jared, Jr. and Leonard Waller Groce. Highlights include an official transcript of the land grant from Estevan F. Austin and the Baron de Bastrop to Jared E. Groce; a letter from Henry Smith, Provisional Governor of Texas, relating his dealings with his Council; and a letter from John A. Wharton regarding the capture of the "Independence" off Velasco.
The U.S. Civil War Company records of the 6th Regiment Kentucky Infantry consist of General Orders; descriptive rolls of the regiment's commissioned and non-commissioned officers; a register of men discharged and why; a register of death; a register of deserters; and a descriptive roll of the regiment with physical and vital information.
Papers of Thomas Lindsey Blayney, a founding member of the faculty of Rice Institute (now University) and Professor of German there from 1912- 1924; materials include records of his military service during World War I (1917-1919), and later appointments as president of Texas State Women's College (1924-26) and dean of Carleton College (1926-46); also included are family memoirs, correspondence, photographs, news clippings, and memorabilia.
This collection contains three letters: two from Governor James Allred of Texas to Emil Hurja of the Democratic National Committee in Washington D.C. (1935-36), and one from Gov. Lawrence Sullivan Ross of Texas to General M. Cist of Cincinnati, Ohio (1889). Subjects include thanks for gifts sent and requests for reading materials, and do not relate specifically to Texas politics.
The business diaries of Benjamin Woodson, Houston philanthropist, insurance and finance expert, and supporter of education, sports, and the arts, describe his daily business as the chief operating officer of American General, an insurance company founded by Gus Wortham. The diaries range in date from 1954-1979 and describe the growth of this originally small company into one of the largest insurance companies in the world. Subjects include daily business schedule, meeting notes, decisions large and small, travel schedules, interactions with staff, and many more details which come together to tell the story of Woodson's role in the dramatic growth of American General.
The collection consists of eight letters written to Sir George Parker, Esquire, from John Jervis, Admiral Lord St. Vincent. All letters refer to personal business and financial affairs.
The papers include investigative reports, correspondence, and ship and crew information in relation to the grounding of the S.S. Schroon while helping the S.S. West Hematite. The S.S. Schroon was an American sea-going vessel involved in cargo transport.
This letter was written by John Churchill (John, Marquis of Blandford) 1690-1703, who was the son of the first Duke of Marlborough, grandson of Sir Winston Churchill. The recipient, Allen Bathurst (first Earl Bathurst) was later to become treasurer to the Prince of Wales in 1757. Churchill expresses his happiness that Barnhurst plans to attend the upcoming coronation of Queen Anne, and sends regards on behalf of Baron Horatio Walpole.
Land deeds and agreements relating to the tract of land in Harris County granted to John Reinermann, dating from 1857-1888.
Legal documents and correspondence related to the Jose de Escandon expedition of the Gulf Coast (1765-1766) and the establishment of missions in the Seno Mexicano, and U.S. Civil War and Reconstruction documents, as well as other documents related to Texas and American history.
A certificate of limited partnership for the purpose of setting up firm of "R.J. French" to purchase and sell goods from July 1, 1852 to July 1, 1857. The agreement was between general partner Richard J. French and special partners William M. Rice and Ebenezer B. Nichols.
This group of typescripts documents the translation of Ferenc Nagy's "The Struggle Behind the Iron Curtain," translated by Stephen K. Swift and published by MacMillan (New York) in 1948. Included in the collection are: the final original Hungarian manuscript; work schedule, a preliminary version and final typescript version of the translation. "The Struggle Behind the Iron Curtain" is a significant political and historical narrative. The collection is also an example of the steps involved in translation. The collection should be of interest to students and others interested in languages, techniques of translation, and Central European History.
Professional and personal papers of chemist Dr. Norman Hackerman, the fourth president of Rice University (1970 - 1985), including correspondence, notes for speaking engagements, etc., mainly concerning his membership in the National Science Foundation, National Science Board, and trips to Antarctica.
Correspondence between biologist Julian Huxley to art historian Kenneth Clark, including some letters between their wives Juliette Huxley and Jane Clark, regarding art, artists, financing films of animals, Clark's television series, both Clark's and Huxley's books, the Zoological Society of London, British Candidates for the Nobel Prize, WWII government projects, and personal matters. Huxley was Assistant Professor of Biology at Rice Institute (1913-1916).
Photographs featured in the Rice University alumni magazine, the Sallyport, 1987-2003. The Sallyport was first published in 1945 and is still published today as Rice Magazine.
Family correspondence, photographs, travel and community involvement records, business information, newsclippings, academic realia and genealogies for the Edgar Odell Lovett family and related families such as the Hale and Wicks families. In addition to providing detailed family history, this material documents the close administrative and philanthropic relationship of the Lovetts and others primarily to Rice Institute, and to a lesser degree the Art League of Houston and the Houston Museum of Fine Arts.
Documents related to the planning and execution of the symposium titled "Julian Huxley, Biologist and Statesman of Science" and was held September 25-27,1987 at Rice University. Formats include correspondence, grants proposals, publicity materials, photographs, and audiotapes and transcripts of symposium presentations.
"Studies in English Literature 1500-1900" is a quarterly journal of historical and critical studies that is based at Rice University. The record group contains correspondence between authors/reviewers and the editors; some original typescripts and galley proofs; correspondence on rejected articles.
The academic papers of Chemistry Professor and Dean of Advanced Studies and Research John L. Margrave reflect the daily business of his career at Rice University, and his involvement with Gulf Universities Research Consortium (GURC), Houston Area Research Center (HARC), High Temperature Science, and Marchem, Incorporated.
The Civil War and Confederate scrapbook of Mrs. Mary J. Bobo contains pasted clippings from the Nashville (Tenn.) Banner on some of the history and battles of the U.S. Civil War dating from 1902-1907. Principally, the battles at Murphreesboro and Chickamauga, Tenn. are noted.
The papers of Jake Hess reflect his football, basketball, and tennis careers, both before and after his days as a student and star athlete at Rice Institute.
Four bound volumes of descriptive rolls recording the status (as of 1863) of soldiers serving in the following Missouri regiments in the Union Army during the United States Civil War: Missouri Infantry Volunteers, Missouri Cavalry Volunteers, Missouri Infantry and Cavalry Militia.
This collection contains correspondence, memos, budgeting and accounting records, and other materials associated with the operation of the Fine Arts Department of Rice University from 1960-1969. The bulk of the material is from 1965 to 1968.
The Clarence R. Wharton Papers includes Wharton's papers, correspondence, research files and manuscripts related to Texas history. The correspondence pertains primarily to the preparation and/or publication of his works, such as "Gail Borden, pioneer," "Wharton's History of Fort Bend County," "Remember Goliad," "L'Archeveque," and others. Also included is manuscript material of other authors.
The materials in this collection are from the Houston-based Kirby Petroleum Company and the records of George Sawtelle, president and later chairman of the company to 1965. This collection consists of 2.5 linear feet of photographs, correspondence, business records, clippings, and technical papers. The primary correspondents are John H. Kirby, Clint Murchison, Cooper Ragan, and George Sawtelle. This material provides a valuable look at the early days of the oil industry in Texas. In particular, this collection documents through correspondence the concerns and business goals of oil men from the 1920s through the 1940s.
This collection consists of architectural drawings done by Ruth Y. McGonigle during her private practice in Brownsville, TX. She designed mostly residential houses with the exception of a few public buildings.
Research files compiled by Lia Unrau during her tenure as Science Editor in the Office of Media Relations and Information at Rice University (1995-2001), consisting of notes, press releases, news clippings, photographs, and related ephemera.
This material includes correspondence, research and genealogical notes which reflect the interests of historian and Rice University professor Andrew Forest Muir. They relate to 19th century Texas and Houston history; free African Americans in Texas pre-Civil War; the life and death of William Marsh Rice; the growth of the Catholic, Anglican, and Episcopal Churches in the 19th century via missionary work in Texas and Hawaii; and Hawaiian history, specifically clergymen in Hawaii. These research files were created and maintained by Andrew Forest Muir circa 1935-1969, with subjects covering a wide range of dates, circa 1750-1969, bulk 1800s, particularly the republic of Texas era and Civil War era. Other topics include Muir's academic career and personal life.
The records reflect the activities of the Rice University Commission on Women (RUCOW). The collection spans almost 20 years and consists of materials associated with the Commission's work including task force reports that summarize the state of women's affairs at Rice (benefits, salary, promotion, child care, campus climate and visibility), surveys, memoranda, campus controversies, internal correspondence, and a collection of scholarly articles concerned with women's issues in academia.
J.B. Harris recounts the capture of his battalion of confederate cavalry outside of New Iberia, Louisiana in 1863. The format switches from verse to letter with many colloquialisms and an overall assumption that the reader is familiar with the subject and persons involved.
The collection consists of a bound volume of 28 letters, the majority of which were written by Mrs. Kezia Payne DePelchin (1828-1893) to her sister, describing her experiences as a nurse during the yellow fever epidemic of 1878 in Tennessee, Mississippi and Alabama. The volume also includes letters from E. Kate Heckle, a friend and fellow nurse, to DePelchin, describing some of her own experiences during the same epidemic.
Two letters written by Sarah Austin, a writer, translator, and wife of jurist John Austin. One letter relates to the dangerous illness of her brother; the other refers to her stay at Bonchurch and mentions that she had written a letter to The Times with references to Shakespeare's house.
Records of the Rhode Island Artillery, 5th Regiment, Company G., dated 1863-1865, including general orders, correspondence, invoices of clothing and other equipment, quartermaster store receipts, and muster rolls. Also includes papers related to the career of Capt. John H. Robinson, dating 1861-1880.
The Judge Peter W. Gray papers include extensive handwritten documents on several of Gray's early Texas district court cases, lectures, speeches, and official documents concerning the creation and organization of the Texas Historical Society. Court cases relate to murder, slavery, counterfeiting, the legal nature of circumstantial evidence and self defense; the notes related to these cases are generally Judge Gray's direction to juries. The speeches include a speech given by Gray at the Democratic Convention in Austin in 1852 for the nomination of Sam Houston for the presidency.
The collection consists of the personal diary of Elizabeth Craw (1819-ca.1909), which records her journey from Ohio to see her soldier fiancé in Texas, and her experiences there. Craw's fiancé fought and died at the Battle of the Alamo.
The manuscript diary is by a young German girl from the Saarland area of Germany, possibly from a rich, Catholic family. The bulk of the diary pertains to the girl's personal life and daily activities; however, comments about conditions in Germany during the war are also found in the work.
This collection includes transcriptions of correspondence between Sam Houston and John Wyatt Moody when Moody was auditor of the Army of the Republic of Texas and then of the Republic of Texas. The folder also contains correspondence between Helen Foster Snow, relative of John Wyatt Moody, and Jean Halden Walker, both genealogists researching the Moody family and its family holdings in Houston.
This collection includes medical records of Doctor John McNeil Stewart as he practiced in Brazoria County, Texas from November 1836 to October 1837. The collection also includes a one page history of one his ancestor's journey through wars in Britain to peace in the United States.
Over one half of the collection documents cattle ranching, oil prospecting, and banking in Texas, as well as personal and family life during the Great Depression. The William Allen Haynes collection offers a view of living conditions of a prosperous Central Texas rancher and entrepreneur as well as providing information on conditions in Texas in the first part of the 19th century.
Charles B. Johnson Confederate Supply Requisition records pertain to the business of the Wichita Indian Agency as well as receipts, quartermasters' store lists, payment abstracts, invoices, and records of acquisitions made by the Confederate States of America in the State of Texas.
This collection consists of the personal and family papers of Houstonian Ruth Carter Slack, including diaries, correspondence, personal travel memorabilia, and memorabilia from her personal life, such as inventories, lists and address books. Also in the collection are her photo collections, hospital records, course notes, and documentation of the Carter and Slack family history.
Correspondence, calendars of events, event programs, invitations, agendas, mailing lists, minutes, brochures, testimonials and more related to the celebration of the 2004 inauguration of Rice University's seventh president.
The collection consists of personal correspondence of Hallam Tennyson, who was the eldest son and biographer of the poet Lord Alfred Tennyson (1809-1892). Correspondents include Mrs. Allingham, Sir George Grove, J. M. Ludlow, A. West. The collection contains letters that deal with Nelson letters, Captain Mahon, and Tennyson's memoir of his father.
This collection consists of replies to a survey on suffrage for women conducted by the Men's League for Woman Suffrage of the State of New York, and signed by Thomas W. Hotchkiss, member of the League's Campaign Committee. The League was campaigning for the passage of an amendment to the N.Y. State Constitution on Nov. 2, 1915. Hotchkiss' letter was sent to governors and other officials of states, mostly western, which had already adopted women's suffrage, and was intended to solicit responses which would refute the objections raised by anti-suffragist opponents of the amendment in New York.
Arithmetic instruction book written in French from the first half of the seventeenth century. It consists of 284 pages written in calligraphy and ornamented with colored drawings. It was probably written for the instruction of a Prince of Orange.
The records of the Twenty-Six Literary Club document the activities of this women's social and philanthropic club established in 1909 by a group of Houston women residing in the Woodland Heights neighborhood. Some members' daughters became students at the Rice Institute (later University) after it opened in 1912 and continued the Club, expanding its membership over the years and engaging in various community projects, including providing scholarships for young women entering Rice.
These records include the original William Marsh Rice murder trial records, and the estate records of Rice, founder of Rice Institute, now Rice University. These records relate to the formation of the idea of the Rice Institute and the activities of its first Board of Trustees in the years before Mr. Rice's death and to the Institute's formative years just after his death. The outcomes of the legal proceedings documented in these records, which related to significant financial resources and real estate, played the critical role in the creation of Rice Institute. A small amount of Rice's personal and business papers are also present.
Original letters, broadsides, pamphlets, printed materials and books documenting the 19th century and early 20th century political and cultural relationships between the United States, Mexico, Central and South America, Cuba, Spain, and Portugal.
Journals, scrapbooks, sketches, and photographs by and about Julian and Juliette Huxley, covering family life; travels on behalf of UNESCO and for other research and personal purposes to Africa, Australia, and Europe; awards and honors; and academic and creative writing.
Minutes, election information, and correspondence of the Rice University Faculty Council.
Minutes, agendas, and correspondence for general meetings of the Faculty at Rice University.
The Beta Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa at Rice was established in 1929. This record group contains the history of the Beta Chapter from its inception up until 2008, as documented by correspondence, minutes, journals, financial records, and printed materials.
Event planning documents, correspondence, notes, drafts, memos, press releases, newsclippings, photographs and memorabilia created and maintained by Rice University in support of the 1990 Economic Summit of Industrialized Nations, hosted by Rice University.
Meeting minutes and correspondence of the Rice University Athletic Committee, 1959-1991.
This collection includes records dating from the groundbreaking, founding, and development including but not limited to booklets, correspondence, financial documents, and news clippings of Baker Hall and the Institute for Public Policy.
Invitations, programs, correspondence, testimonials and general information related to the inauguration of Rice University's second president, William Vermillion Houston, on April 10, 1947. This material was created and maintained by the Presidential Inaugural Committee.
Correspondence, memos, schedules, etc. generated by the Presidential Inaugural Committee planning the Inauguration of Norman Hackerman as the fourth president of Rice University on September 24, 1971.
Correspondence, photographs, family trees, vital records and other genealogical material related to the Watkin family of Houston, TX (1910s-current) and of Danville, Pennsylvania (late 19th century). William Ward Watkin (1886-1952) was the first Supervising Architect of Rice Institute and the first chair of the Dept. of Architecture at Rice Institute. His daughter, Ray Watkin Strange, is a Rice graduate and significant supporter of Rice University and the Fondren Library.
U.S. Civil war imprints and currency, various 19th century broadsides, brief histories of Army Generals including U.S. Grant, W.T. Sherman, A.E. Burnside, and others, as well as other ephemera such as Mussolini's shaving kit. This material was collected over a period of years by John H. Wright.
The papers of Admiral Sir William Sidney Smith contain letters concerning Smith's brother, John Spencer Smith, who was British ambassador to the Porte at Constantinople in the early 1790s. Correspondents include Robert Liston, British Minister to the United States. Also included is a genealogy of the Smith family, a battle order issued by Smith aboard HMS Tigre during the siege at Acre in 1799, and an invitation to the funeral of the Duke of Wellington.
Material consists of correspondence between Cooper K. Ragan and Rice University historian Andrew F. Muir. They relate primarily to Muir's published works, historical information and criticisms of others' works.
This collection contains the Charles Ricketts and Charles Shannon research material of Dr. Carl Woodring including correspondence, articles and theses, works, Vale Press items, exhibition catalogs and other printed material. An extensive book collection, paintings and drawings are included in the collection.
This series includes incoming and outgoing correspondence of Carl Woodring with the following correspondents.
Prospectuses for a number of publications including Poems of Alfred Lloyd Tennyson, The Rowley Poems of Thomas Chatterton, and others.
A collection of printed and bound exhibition and auction catalogs. Includes The Society of Twelve, First Exhibition (1904) with a preface by Laurence Binyon and Charles H. Shannon. Seven Reproductions of Fifteen Pictures Shown at the Leicester Galleries in January, 1907 with a preface by Laurence Binyon.
This collection consists of letters written to and from the British author and journalist, Sir Edwin Arnold between 1887 and 1899. The letters primarily discuss invitations and lecture schedules.
This collection consists primarily of letters written by French author and journalist, Paul Blouet (pseudonym, Max O'Rell) between 1885 and 1903. The letters discuss Blouet's lecture tours, the management of his play "John Bull on the Continent", and his affliction with cancer.
Typescripts, correspondence, sketches, autographs, articles, notes and other research material relating to George Cruikshank's career as an illustrator as well as his personal and family life. Robert L. Patten's two volume work, George Cruikshank's Life, Times, and Art is a comprehensive study of the life and art of George Cruikshank.
This series contains card file research notes, listing works, correspondence notes (name of correspondents, subject of correspondence (ex. art related, business, personal), location of repository and dates, bibliographical information, subject files and source notes.
no content
Includes a printed application for copyright completed by Cruikshank and his wife and signed by him for The Drunkard's Children
Includes notes, receipts, correspondence to the Britsh Museum and others regarding materials donated by Mrs. Cruikshank.
Minutes, records, correspondence, photographs and other materials documenting the social and charitable activities of the Rice University Faculty Women's Club.
Two autographed letters by George Cruikshank, one addressed to Angus B. Reach, 1845, the other addressed to Captain [Edwin] Hurley, 1868.
Course materials, notes, correspondence and administrative papers of Dr. Robert L. Patten, Lynette S. Autrey Professor in Humanities at Rice University, Houston, Texas. Dr. Patten's research areas include Nineteenth-century British literature and art, and history of the book.
Includes files relating to Robert L. Patten's involvement in professional associations and committees (Rice University and others), correspondence, lectures, early writings, student advising and other professional and academic activities.
Correspondence, proofs, contracts and other materials relating to the publication of Palgrave Advances in Charles Dickens Studies, 2006, edited by Robert L. Patten and published by Palgrave Macmillan.
In 1997, Rice University began a national search for a new dean for the Wiess School of Natural Sciences. This collection contains records related to that search, including lists of committee members, lists of candidates, correspondence, university news releases and other related records, such as the 1997 strategic plan for the Wiess School of Natural Sciences.
Letters written by Maclay to Admiral Thomas A. Stevens mentioning his intention to write a comprehensive account of the Navy's part in the U.S. Civil War.
Photocopies of 49 letters to Morrison Gunn from members of his family and various friends. For the most part they are personal, but also include information on the conditions faced by immigrant farmers and the problems of establishing a home.
Biographical sketch of Jared Ellsion Groce, one of the Old Three Hundred (Austin's first colony), who emigrated to Texas in January 1822. Time period described ranges from 1782-1836.
This collection consists of a biography written by Houston Wade about Michel B. Menard, founder of Galveston. Included are newsclippings about Menard, other Texas personalities, and correspondence to Mr. Wade regarding the Menard family history.
The complete unpublished manuscript containing an account of the Church's activities in 16th century Mexico in relation to the indigenous population.
Journal of a Pacific cruise of the U.S.S. Jamestown from January to June 1882 kept by midshipman J. H. Gibbons
A collection of letters written by Eseck G. Wilber, a Union soldier, to his family in Cairo, New York.
In this series of letters, Wilbur begins with two letters from a hospital (January, 1862). His next letter, dated September 3, 1862, speaks of an "awful fight," likely referring to the Second Battle of Bull Run waged in August, 1862. His letter of December 21 describes the fighting at Fredericksburg.
In this series of letters Wilber descibes a review by General Hooker and Abraham Lincoln (April 10, 1863), the Battle of Chancellorsville, General Hooker and the death of General Berry (May 7, 1863), the Battle of Gettysburg (July 28, 1863) and in the last five letters, Wilber writes as a prisoner of war in Virginia. A few of the letters do not contain a location; Wilber was usually in the area of Falmouth, Virginia, an area occupied by Union forces in 1862 and 1863 or on march.
Logbook of a cruise of the U.S.S. Adams along the Pacific coast of Central and South America from December 1, 1879 to February 23, 1881, kept by Cadet-Midshipman John H. Gibbons.
A diary written by Augustus Ehinger during his year in the U.S. Army during the Mexican-American War.
A paper titled "Did Teotihuacan's Designers have a knowledge of spherical trigonometry?" by Hugh Harleston, Jr., including illustrations and appendices.
Professional papers of Dr. Neal Lane from Lane's time as a professor and administrator at Rice University, as well as his time as Director of the National Science Foundation. Also included are papers from Lane's time in the White House working as the director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy.
Files relating to the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) and the National Science Foundation. Memoranda, meeting materials, agendas, reports and notes relating to the various divisions of the OSTP: Environment, Science, Technology and National Security and International Affairs.
Official documents, books, advertisements, religious pamphlets, maps, and various other materials related to life in the Confederacy during the period of the U.S. Civil War.
A collection of letters written by British officers serving in Portugal during the Peninsular War referring to matters concerning the war.
Correspondence, minutes, and memoranda of the Rice University Space Assignment Committee, arranged chronologically.
Photocopies of letters written by Union soldier Corporal James K. Lovejoy to his wife while stationed in Louisiana, 1863-1864.
This letter (10 January 1890) from Moses Austin Bryan letter to Col. W.W. Fontaine is in response to a series of questions concerning the revolutionary period in Texas history.
The Glass financial papers are primarily a collection of records and receipts of purchases and land sales gathered during the course of Glass' activities as receiver of revenue during the U.S. Civil War.
The Hobbs diary records his experiences as a volunteer recruit in New England, his participation in the Battle of Galveston, and his life as a prisoner in Houston, 1862-1863.
These materials reflect the daily business of Rice University Chairman of the Board Bill Barnett, including correspondence, reports, publications and newsclippings. As board chair, Barnett led the strengthening of the university's governance, moving from the two-tiered board to a single-tier board enlarged to 25 trustees. Under his leadership, the board elected a far more diverse group of trustees with representation from all parts of the country; the university amended its charter to allow for the use of debt financing, which led to the largest building and modernization program in the campus's history; and the university's endowment grew from $1.7 billion to $3.4 billion.
This collection highlights the founding of the Jones School and its daily business from 1974-2013. Records contain information relating to the school's history, bylaws, directories, correspondence, press releases, awards. It also contains items regarding fundraising, projects, lectures and seminars, and various corporate and individual contributors to the school. The collection also features documents from various Rice University professors and administrators with ties to the Jones School.
The collection includes letters from, portraits, autographs, and a drawing of, a fragment of a poem by, and an article written by Thomas Campbell, as well as biographical information about Campbell and Alfred Tennyson.
The letters concern Ms. Hattie Lel Red's scholarship fund raising activities on behalf of Dr. Edward Phillips' history students at Austin College and his responses thereto. Her letters also cover her memories of her time at Rice and of her family, classmates and teachers, as well as comments concerning her travels in Texas and elsewhere.
Records documenting the daily business of the Society of Rice University Women, including membership information, financial records and activity scrapbooks. Formats include membership lists, treasurer's reports, bank records, meeting minutes, event flyers, scrapbooks, photographs, and yearbooks.
In 1971 Sewall Hall was constructed making space available for a permanent art gallery at Rice University referred to as the Sewall Gallery and later as Rice University Art Gallery. These records reflect the exhibitions held there and related administrative functions.
This collection of play programs and related printed publications was created and maintained mainly by John Blodgett Davis and reflects the Houston, Texas theater scene primarily in the 1950s and 1960s.
Letters written by General Pershing on both personal and official business.
Correspondents writing to the Ms. Horners include Ellen Kean, F. Maurice, Harriet Hosmer, C.P. Marsh, E. Ryan, H.H. Hilman, Sir James Hudson, Rose Kingsley, Sir H.E. Bunbury, Francis Cobbe, and Sir James Clark. The letters deal with Walks in Florence, Italian affairs, and refer to Eastlake, the Lyells, Royalties, Froude and more. Included is one letter to Leonard Horner from Lord Landsdowne.
The journal primarily recounts the army career of David Latimer Tinling-Widdrington's son, George Widdrington, from 1796 until his death in 1813 at the Battle of Vittoria, the decisive battle of the Peninsular War. The journal contains numerous descriptions of battles, many taken from copies of letters sent by George to his family. Also included are copies of other letters, including several by Joseph Cook, a relative by marriage. The journal contains a great deal of genealogical information concerning the Widdrington name, and Army lists (British, Portuguese, and French armies).
Letter written from American naval officer and historian A.T. Mahan to Gen. James Wilson regarding the publication of Mahan's biography of Admiral James Glasgow Farragut.
The bulk of the correspondence is from Young M. Moody to his "Dear and Confiding Wife.", written during the U.S. Civil War. In addition there are other family letters, military correspondence, land and business records, photographs, daguerreotypes and badges of rank and an epaulet from General Moody's uniform.
This is a collection of twenty-seven letters, mostly handwritten and accompanied by their original envelopes. Each letter addresses the subject posed by Mrs. Kaderli when she asked for guidance in explaining death to her small daughter. A few of the letters are photocopies which replace lost originals.
A two page document presenting a permanent scholarship for girls on behalf of the John McKnitt Alexander Chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution.
This is a handwritten letter dated July 30, 1828 and signed by C.A. Somerset. The letter is addressed to an un-named publisher, in which Somerset refers to a short manuscript sent with the letter and requests addresses for "respectable publishers in the Whig interest."
The Texas City disaster records were created and / or maintained by survivor Robert M. Morris, of Texas City, TX. The reports, statements, images and notes describe the events of the April 16, 1947 when a French ship carrying fertilizer on Galveston Bay caught fire and exploded, causing disaster on shore at the nearby Monsanto styrene plant and other petroleum refineries, homes, warehouses, ships and buildings. At least 576 were killed and 4,000 injured, with the town being almost completely destroyed.
The Kelley Industries Inc. business records reflect the daily business of this Houston based corporation from 1936-1986, from the perspective of Edward Kelley, Jr., President and CEO from 1959-1981.
This is a collection of 31 letters dated variously between 1882-1913, regarding the troubles in Macedonia, written to A. G. Symonds and others of the National Reform Union.
These records were generated by the Office of the VP for Enrollment from 1993 to 2005. The office oversees the Office of Admissions, Enrollment Operations and Student Financial Services. The record types include statistics, policies and procedures, planning and management studies, and general information.
This collection contains videos by or about the Smalley Institute and about Richard Smalley, co-winner of the Nobel Prize in chemistry. Videotapes are in VHS and Beta format. The collection also includes papers of Wade Adams during his tenure as Director of the Smalley Institute; information on nanotechnology initiatives and proposals of the Smalley Institute and others; records of staff participation in nanotechnology conferences; and administrative records of the institute. The Richard E. Smalley Institute for Nanoscale Science and Technology was founded in 1993 at Rice University and was originally named the Center for Nanoscale Science and Technology.
This material reflects the multifaceted career of computer science pioneer Ken Kennedy, of Rice University. Ken Kennedy was the founder of Rice University's nationally ranked computer science program and one of the world's foremost experts on high-performance computing.
The Dean of Engineering Records cover the years 1951 to 2011 for the Engineering School at Rice University in Houston, Texas. The records include the papers of several deans and staff. Topics include academics, research projects, faculty, and general administration.
The volume contains the productions of the Sisterhood of the Gossip Society of Gloucester, England. The author is unknown, but goes by the nom de plume "Penelope Placid." The entire work is purportedly a product of these women's meetings; more likely, it is the work of one woman satirizing the situation of elderly spinsters whom society considered to be gossips in nineteenth century England.
The account book contains an alphabetical listing of Dr. Cochran's patients in Alabama, followed by individual records of visits and accounts. Patients' addresses or occupations are often given as are the methods of payment (cash, services, goods, etc.).
This guest book is filled with the signatures and comments of guests who visited the Peden family's lake house in Clear Lake, Texas, called "Miramichi." There are also several diary entries chronicling important events in the Peden family, as well as events that occurred at Miramichi.
This collection contains correspondence from Gertrude Maurin with Dr. Joseph Banks Rhine, Dr. Louisa E. Rhine, Dr. Marie Higbee Avery, and other individuals connected with the Duke University Parapsychology Laboratory, the Institute for Parapsychology, and the Foundation for Research on the Nature of Man in Durham, North Carolina. Most of the correspondence is incoming, although a few manuscript drafts of outgoing letters exist. Generally, the correspondence concerns Miss Maurin's support of the institutions. Also included are letters from her attorney and bankers.
This collection consists of research materials compiled by William Martin, Rice University professor of sociology, during the course of his research on the Christian religious right in the United States, as well as fundamentalists, fundamentalist education, evangelists such as Billy Graham, and other aspects of conservative Christian organizations. The materials consists of correspondence, notes, videos, transcriptions of video interviews, pamphlets, and books.
This collection contains videotapes, photos, reports, and other materials associated with the operation of the Center for Research in Parallel Computation from 1985-1999.
These records reflect the administrative activities of the Rice Athletics Department and the activities of varsity athletics. Administrative records include materials such as historical, eligibility, scholarship, and participation reports, Southwest Conference meeting minutes, Student Athletic Committee records, media guides, and NCAA scorebooks. Records arranged by sport include rosters, injury reports, statistics, notes, scores, and Letterman Awards. Graphic materials arranged by format and then by sport include photographs, negatives, slides, video, film, and DVDs. Plaques are arranged by sport. Trophies remain the property of the Athletic Department.
Formats: Beta, Super 8, VHS
Formats: Beta, CD
Formats: Beta
Formats: Beta, VHS
Formats: unlisted
Formats: DVD, VHS
Formats: DVD, VHS
Formats: DVD, VHS
Owls insider is a weekly program which plays before Rice Football games on Fox Sports Houston. These shows recap the Owls progress in the season and look at prospects for the rest of the season. Owls Insider features interviews with coaches and players to enrich the gameday experience for viewers.
Owls insider is a weekly program which plays before Rice Football games on Fox Sports Houston. These shows recap the Owls progress in the season and look at prospects for the rest of the season. Owls Insider features interviews with coaches and players to enrich the gameday experience for viewers.
Owls insider is a weekly program which plays before Rice Football games on Fox Sports Houston. These shows recap the Owls progress in the season and look at prospects for the rest of the season. Owls Insider features interviews with coaches and players to enrich the gameday experience for viewers.
Owls insider is a weekly program which plays before Rice Football games on Fox Sports Houston. These shows recap the Owls progress in the season and look at prospects for the rest of the season. Owls Insider features interviews with coaches and players to enrich the gameday experience for viewers.
Owls insider is a weekly program which plays before Rice Football games on Fox Sports Houston. These shows recap the Owls progress in the season and look at prospects for the rest of the season. Owls Insider features interviews with coaches and players to enrich the gameday experience for viewers.
Owls insider is a weekly program which plays before Rice Football games on Fox Sports Houston. These shows recap the Owls progress in the season and look at prospects for the rest of the season. Owls Insider features interviews with coaches and players to enrich the gameday experience for viewers.
Owls insider is a weekly program which plays before Rice Football games on Fox Sports Houston. These shows recap the Owls progress in the season and look at prospects for the rest of the season. Owls Insider features interviews with coaches and players to enrich the gameday experience for viewers.
Owls insider is a weekly program which plays before Rice Football games on Fox Sports Houston. These shows recap the Owls progress in the season and look at prospects for the rest of the season. Owls Insider features interviews with coaches and players to enrich the gameday experience for viewers.
Owls insider is a weekly program which plays before Rice Football games on Fox Sports Houston. These shows recap the Owls progress in the season and look at prospects for the rest of the season. Owls Insider features interviews with coaches and players to enrich the gameday experience for viewers.
This is a handwritten letter dated May 13, 1743 and signed by J. H. Bastide. The letter is addressed to an "My Lord Duke." Bastide, self-described as "the second Lieutenant in General Cornwallis's regiment," states that he has received advice that he is to be exchanged from his regiment to one in Nova Scotia. He does not wish to be transferred and begs leave to resign his Lieutenancy to his son or permission to sell it in order to provide some security for his family. This letter consist of one sheet of paper measuring 36.5 cm by 22 cm.
Records reflecting the daily business of the Rice University Dean of Undergraduates, 1950-2009.
This is a statement by Robert Crain of his part in a gunfight between Doctor Thomas Maddox and Mr. S.L. Wells that occurred near Natchez, Mississippi. This fight involved Jim Bowie, among others, and resulted in the death and wounding of several people.
This collection consists of several hundred typewritten pages and many photographs of people and places concerning the immigration of Germans into Texas, most notably the Dresel and Spiess families. Most of the material focuses around the middle of the nineteenth century when Gustav Dresel and Hermann Spiess settled in Galveston and Waco Springs, respectively. Clyde H. Porter compiled the material.
Letters and fragments of notes by William Motherwell with no common theme other than the frequent mention of Robert Burns.
This collection consists of owl watercolor prints by artist M. Cole.
The F. W. Heitmann Company business ledgers contains business materials from the F. W. Heitmann Company. It includes assorted business information and records, including daybooks, journals, monthly reports, business ledgers, account books, registers, balance sheets, invoices, inventories, catalogs, city sales records, and lists of shipments received. Most of the collection is still in its original bindings, in large ledgers. Much of the information is hand-written.
This collection consists of an assortment of letters and papers acquired over a period of time and kept together. The collection consists of folders containing correspondence to and from historical / literary figures (Thomas Carlyle, Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, Jose de San Martin, George Bernard Shaw, Henry David Thoreau, William Wordsworth, and others). The largest part of the collection is correspondence of nineteenth century literary figures.
This collection consists of 193 letters written to a Long Island attorney, Samuel H. Gardiner, Esq. of Sag Harbor and New York City. The letters give a good picture of the activities of a counselor at law of that period. The majority of the letters concern legal matters; however, some relate to politics, touching on the election campaigns of 1844 and 1848.
This collection contains the editorial files of the Geophysical Research Letters during the editorship of Alexander J. Dessler (Space Science Dept., Rice University). It includes manuscripts of articles, referees' reports, correspondence, office files, and more.
The Keith McGee papers consist of correspondence, publications, and miscellaneous material collected while working on the "Skylab Student Project" at the Johnson Space Center in 1973. The collection includes photos, typed correspondence, printed material, and films.
This collection contains papers, articles, theses and "An Unorthodox Diary", which includes his perspective on the controversy over the brief presidency of Bill Masterson at Rice University, 1969, among many other topics. Also included in the collection are files regarding Classics courses taught by Dr. Levin at several universities as well as research notes on Classics subjects.
This collection contains articles and book reviews submitted to the publication "Transactions of the American Geophysical Union." Also included are office records, correspondence, SPR news, cover and meeting reports related to this publication of the AGU.
This is a collection of 64 letters addressed to Goddard and Wood. Notable correspondents include Edwin Lester Arnold, F.C. Burnand, Hall Caine, Sir F. Carruthers Goulde, Lillie Langtry, Clotilde Graves and Gertrude Kingston.
The correspondence includes letters and post cards from noted liberals of the period in Great Britain. Most are written to the Secretary of the Committee, Lewis Sergeant.
This letter from Sir Richard John Strachan was sent to Commodore Sir William Cornwallis, his squadron commander in the East Indies, describing his role in the action against the French frigate Resolue off Pondicherry, India, which resulted in her capture.
This collection contains forty-nine letters from Sir Francis Cowley Burnand, British editor of "Punch" magazine, to various people he worked with. The letters span the years 1861-1908
This collection contains Joseph Lemuel Chester's writing and correspondence.
This collection contains letters to and from various high-ranking officers of both the U.S. Army and Navy.
The letters are legal in nature, and apparently deal with various lawsuits brought by or against Baldwin concerning land and contracts.
This collection contains two short handwritten poems by Samuel Minturn Peck titled "Foreboding" and "At the End."
This collection consists of a letter written by von Bauernfeld to an unknown correspondent and a handwritten poem. Both items are written in German.
This is a 426-page handwritten newspaper, published from September-January, 1866-1867 on board the British troop ship Sussex during her maiden voyage from Kingstown, Ireland to Kurrachee, India [Karachi, Pakistan].
This collection consists of letters and documents relating to the life and death of Major Winslow (W.F.) Sanderson. Many of the documents concern the death of Major Sanderson, but two of the letters were written by him from Mexico in 1847. Other correspondence relates to his widow succeeding in securing a military pension, and two U.S. House of Representatives bills concerning the pension.
The collection consists of William V. Ballew, Jr.'s workpapers, correspondence, minutes, and news clippings relating to the Houston-Harris County Economic Opportunity Organization. William V. Ballew, Jr., a Houston attorney, served as Chairman, Board of Trustees, Houston-Harris County Economic Opportunities Committee, an organization that initiated welfare programs as part of President Lyndon Johnson's War on Poverty.
The papers consist of three handwritten short essays by Black, each pasted into a bound volume: "The Borderland of Dreams," "Metropolitan Conveyances" and "My Lady Jemimah…".
This volume includes a 5-page description, handwritten by Dumas, of an expedition in 1862 that led General Giuseppe Garibaldi unknowingly into the hands of Italian troops at Aspromonte, where he was taken prisoner along with his sons. It details how the unnamed conspirators pretended to get lost, leading Garibaldi to a cabin where he was captured.
This collection contains the papers of Harold Albert Wilson who was the first professor of physics at Rice Institute. Included are: Wilson's scientific papers (off-prints only); manuscript of bibliography of the H. A. Wilson scientific papers; "Catalogue of Apparatus," photographs, certificates, and letters to Norman Hurd Ricker.
This collection contains a handwritten and signed letter, written January 5, 1802 and addressed to Samuel Mitchell, a member of the U.S. Congress, concerning publication of Priestley's paper on "galvanism" to appear in the Medical Repository. Additionally, Priestley writes of problems in obtaining philosophical materials from his bookseller in London, and asks the congressman about living conditions in Washington. A typewritten transcript of the letter is included.
This collection consists of 11 letters written between the years 1911 and 1914 by John Galsworthy to Professor William Sadler. Most of the letters contain travel plans and arrangements for meeting each other; however, several of the letters comment on current events, including Galsworthy's response to Sadler on the outbreak of World War I.
This collection consists of a bound typescript of the book "The American Tory", which is the study of the Loyalists (or "Tories") of the American Revolution.
The majority of this collection consists of Kolenda's own writing (notes, drafts, source material). The next largest group consists of source material only on four philosophers (Peirce, Rorty, Ryle and Wittgenstein). There is a small quantity of Kolenda correspondence, course material, and Will Rice College material, as well as some National Endowment for the Humanities material.
This collection contains the personal and academic papers of Houston architect O. Jack Mitchell. Included in the collection are Mitchell's consulting projects, Houston organizations projects, numerous slides of cities around the world, film reels of lectures, and various other architectural materials.
This collection consists of astronomer Albert Van Helden's academic papers and encompass his work with various professional organizations, as well as with Rice University related committees and projects.
This collection contains educational materials including manuscripts and visuals for books on architectural construction methods. Also included are "A Walking Tour of Rice University" glass plate negatives (c. 1912-1950) given to Morehead by William Ward Watkin for use in Morehead's construction class. The collection also contains many photographs and slides of buildings and unique architecture at Rice University.
This collection consists of notes on and drafts of Julian Huxley's "Morphism and Evolution" as well as research materials and correspondence related to his work.
A collection of theater programs mainly from Houston, Texas, but also including New York, London, Dallas, and Fort Worth, collected by Ed Oppenheimer.
This collection contains the professional papers of Dr. Lee P. Brown. The papers reflect his professional career as Mayor of Houston (1998-2004), Director of the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (1993-1995), New York City Police Commissioner (1990-1992), Police Chief of Houston, Texas (1982-1990), Public Safety Commissioner of Atlanta, Georgia (1978-1982), and Professor and Scholar at Rice University. Also included in the collection are newsclips, photographs, awards and honors.
This collection contains various items relating to Julian Huxley, including photographs, a signed letter, handwritten notes, and a handwritten manuscript of The Development of Life.
A collection of compact discs containing interviews with members of various Houston, TX communities, documenting their memories of the old neighborhoods. Interviews conducted by members of Houston Arts and Media for the organization's Neighbor to Neighbor project. At this time the recordings have not been transcribed.
This collection consists of a series of letters and a map annotated by Mr. Atwood concerning his archaeological findings in the Galveston Bay area.
Correspondence from Rice Institute student Otto Eisenlohr to his high school sweetheart and eventual wife, Gainor Roberts, regarding student life, academics and athletics at Rice Institute, and contemporary newsclippings and photographs.
This collection consists of an album that contains 48 items from World War I, mainly Christmas cards issued by regiments. Also included are a few postcards, a German shoulder-strap, and a leaf of laurel.
This collection consists of a 161-page handwritten logbook, penned (probably) by William Ward, whose name appears on the front pastedown endpaper. The majority of entries are Orders of the Day, letters, memoranda, and accounts of expenditures. Each entry is initialed by at least three officers; some are initialed by as many as eight officers.
The diary kept by First Lieutenant John Duff Markland includes an itinerary of the voyage of the HMS Albion in the East Indies 1803-1805, and several pages of poetry, but is primarily a series of sketches of ships, shore views, many in color, including drawings of flowers.
This collection contains notes and printed material largely related to John Minter's study of the youth movement in the Berkeley, California area, including the resulting publication by Minter titled "Youth Alive." A great deal of the printed ephemera reflects the young adult "counter culture" of the late 1960's and early 1970's. Also included is some additional material on Christian movements in the Houston area.
The Harrie Thomas Lindeberg Architectural Drawings collection includes eighty-five architectural sheets and one framed rendering by Lindeberg of the Hugo V. Neuhaus residence located in the Shadyside area of Houston, Texas.
This collection contains memorabilia from the Ye Old College Inn. It consists of photographs, a recipe book and a scrapbook from the Ye Old College Inn. The photographs are those taken of Rice college teams and athletes as early as 1915 and they include baseball, basketball, cross-country, football, and track athletes. The recipe book was put together by Ernie Coker who was one of the owners of the Ye Old College Inn. The scrapbook contains photos and news articles pertaining to Owl athletes and their achievements.
Business ledgers of the Spears Dairy and its various plants and stores in Texas.
The collection consists of photographic research materials on Houston, TX, Rice University, and various urban scenes, architectural details, and photographic techniques. It was created by William Lukes in collaboration with Paul Hester during the years 1969 through 1974, when Lukes was an architectural student at Rice University.
The Arthur Jones Architectural Records contain information and pictures of projects Jones was involved with in his career with Houston-based Lloyd and Morgan, Lloyd, Jones, and Brewer, and Jones and Fillpot.
This collection contains papers from Adams' professional career as a renowned geologist and professor at Rice University. Included are papers regarding his careers in consulting, teaching, recycling and writing; also included is Adams' correspondence, membership in organizations and attendance at meetings.
The collection consists of a scrapbook of newspaper clippings by and about J.S. Mosby, a Confederate soldier, that detail his adventures in the Confederate cavalry. Also included are unfavorable clippings from local newspapers on the occasion of his visit to New England in 1886.
This collection contains a letter by Mary Webb, an English author, to Geoffrey Dearmer. The letter, thanking Dr. Dearmer for his advice regarding publishers and some of her writings, also gives a description of her cottage in Hampstead.
The collection consists of reports, photographs, and films related to the NASA Suprathermal Ion Detector Experiment (SID), part of the Apollo Lunar Surface Experiment Package (ALSEP). This experiment, involving equipment developed by Freeman, was part of the work of Apollo missions 12, 14, and 15.
The contents of this collection include the papers and publications of Harry Van Demark. Within the collection are typescript and bound versions of plays and short stories as well as scrap books, articles, and poetry. Van Demark was considered the most prolific writer in the Houston area of his time.
This collection is composed of research materials and manuscripts of Patrick J. Nicholson for his book Mr. Jim: The Biography of James Smither Abercrombie. Included are photocopies of various articles about J.S. Abercrombie, correspondence concerning Nicholson's research, notes, and typed copies of the manuscript.
This collection contains the manuscript entitled "Geophysics: The Earth's Interior" by Jean-Claude de Bremaecker. De Bremaecker is a Professor Emeritus of Geology at Rice University.
This collection contains a bound volume of many letters of condolence to J.D. Sandefer Jr.'s children. The letters are sent by various bankers, attorneys, businessmen, and the Presidents of Baylor University, Hardin-Simmons University, and Howard Payne University. All of the letters extol Sandefer's abilities as a businessman, friend, and civic leader.
The account book includes individual wages for officers and crews; allowances for victuals; prices of provisions to be paid to and by the Purser; various allowances and expense lists; lists of French, Dutch and Algiers fleets, including ship names and guns; as well as lists of the major Royal Navy commands, the red, white, and blue squadrons, with ships assigned to each, their commanders, guns, and names of flag officers commanding.
This collection contains a biographical sketch of Mirabeau Bonparte Lamar written by his secretary, Edward Fontaine. Lamar served as President of the Republic of Texas from 1838 until 1841. Originally opposed to U.S. annexation, he planned a comprehensive system of education; began successful negotiations for recognition by France, England, and Holland; and founded the city of Austin in 1840.
Contains materials relating to Anderson's work with Dwight D. Eisenhower as National Security Advisor as well as correspondence and manuscripts related to his short stories, his book Recollections of Eisenhower and book reviews.
This collection contains a letter written by John Brown to his wife. It was written from Grigsby's Bluff and gives news of the people there, in particular, their health. Grigsby's Bluff was located on the Neches River in Eastern Jefferson County. Its name was changed to Port Neches in 1901.
This collection includes photographs, certificates, news clippings, typescripts, and awards dealing for the most part with Edmund McAshan Dupree's undergraduate career at Rice Institute and his class' 25th Anniversary Reunion in 1941.
This collection contains fifteen boxes of material related to the operation of The Ensemble Theatre in Houston, Texas, including General Records, Administration Records and Financial Records.
Contains materials relating to Westheimer's literary work, including manuscripts, typescripts, drafts, reviews, research, and correspondence
This collection contains three typescripts of works produced by Marsak titled: Bernard de Fontenelle, Development of Science in Relation to Society, and French Philosophers.
The collection includes a holograph of Edward R. DeZurko's doctoral dissertation submitted to the Institute of Fine Arts, New York University, April 1, 1953: "Functionalist Trends in Writings Pertaining to Architecture with Special Emphasis on the Period ca. 1700-1850." The collection also includes the typewritten manuscript of his recent book, Origins of Functionalist Theory, published by the Columbia University Press. The manuscript contains copious corrections by the author including instructions to the printer. In addition he has given to the Rice Library the corrected galley proof and the page proof.
This collection contains typescripts, handwritten notes and correspondence related to the personal and professional life of George W. Whiting, a professor of English at Rice Institute.
Sermons written by Mathurin Guerin, with prayers to be delivered before and after the sermons. There are nine sermons handwritten into a bound volume. The Reverend Mr. Henry Heywood, who died in October 1755, preached the first six in Charleston, South Carolina.
This collection contains the business ledger of the firm of Allen and Morris, showing transactions for services and sundries with various persons and companies, including the Confederate States of America. The firm was located in Prattville, Alabama, and the ledger's entries date from June 27, 1862 to November 15, 1864.
This collection contains the manuscript of a book by Stella Shurtleff called "Art Came to Texas: A Story of the History of Art in Texas". Also included are notes and correspondence regarding the history of art in Texas.
This typewritten manuscript is titled "Seeking the Garden of the World". It is Oswald Mueller's English translation of Fritz Scheffel's Deutsche suchen den Garten der Welt. Mueller authors the preface, in which he describes the story as that of the failed German attempt to colonize Texas into a New-Germania.
This collection contains a compilation of letters to and from Col. House regarding business deals, financial holdings, and politics. The majority of the letters are addressed to Thomas C. Dunn. Other correspondents include: Dewitt C. Dunn, Secretary McAdoo of the Treasury Department, and Paul M. Warburg. Topics discussed include real estate, federal and regional reserve banks.
This material was the working papers of the Journal of geophysical research during the period when Prof. Alexander J. Dessler (Space Science Dept., Rice University) was associate editor and later co-editor (1964-1970). It includes correspondence and article files.
This collection contains a letter from Annie Gregory to Lady Margaret Spicer, daughter of the 12th Earl of Westmoreland. In the note, Annie requests that Lady Spicer let her know if her husband Captain John Edward Philip Spicer would "let" her (Annie) a cottage called Chittoe Heath. Annie Gregory belonged to a Methodist (Wesleyan) family in Wiltshire.
This collection contains thirteen letters written by the Duke of Wellington to Miss A.M. (Anna Maria) Jenkins, a 19th century evangelist. Two other letters are from Ms. Sophy Mistes to Miss A.M. Jenkins. Accompanying some of the letters are envelopes with wax seals; also included in the collection are a miniature photo of the Duke and a paper Mariner's Compass.
This collection contains letters and literary drafts of Samuel Richardson; letters of his daughter, Anne Richardson, to her sister Martha Richardson Bridgen, and parents, and Sally Crowther Moodie. The collection also includes letters by Elizabeth (Leake) Richardson, Sally Crowther Moodie, and Jane Berthon regarding the Lisbon earthquake (1755); and correspondence from O.B. Kaiser to Samuel Richardson.
Academic papers of Dr. Arthur Few, physicist at Rice University, including his journal articles and other publications, his class notes and lectures, and papers regarding Martel College at Rice University.
Correspondence, reports, and publications revealing Rice Institute / Rice University's athletics programs and participation in regional athletics conferences.
Document is an anonymous commentary on an article appearing in the February 28, 1827 edition of "The Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" that discussed propositions put forward by Lord Bathurst for reforms in the treatment of enslaved people in the Colonies; in particular, a prohibition of the flogging of women, which failed to pass.
This collection contains a hand-made collected edition of poetry by Lois Tompa called "Above the Wall", dedicated to her husband, Joseph Tompa. The manuscript consists of 35 leaves of mimeograph pages stapled together with the author's autograph inscription.
This collection contains Edward Doughtie's compilation of manuscripts of English Renaissance songs, including: typescript copies of Lyrics from English Airs and a typescript of Liber Lilliati (an Elizabethan verse and song).
This collection contains plans for and information about Project Mohole, a cooperative effort between the United States government and the scientific community to drill a hole through the outer crust of the earth to what is called the "Mohorovicic Discontinuity" or Moho, the boundary between the Earth's crust and the mantle. Also included in this collection are magazine and news articles, correspondence, designs, and other information about the project. Also, Frank Brigg's unpublished manuscript PROJECT MOHOLE: The History and Technology of a Famous Government Project and a first-edition of his book Bare-faced Lies about Tigers in the Oil Patch are part of this collection.
This collection contains Allan H. Stevenson's research of early paper-making and printing. Included in the collection are samples of early watermarked paper, facsimiles of watermarks, correspondence and manuscript notes by Stevenson, and reviews of publications. Also included are: proof copies of papers by Stevenson and other scholars, miscellaneous printed material on the subject of printing, conferences and exhibitions, and presentations from other scholars.
The collection consists of 408 black and white photographs and 77 slides of New England gravestone carvings. The gravestone carvings date from 1653-1810, these photographs of the carvings were created by Allan Ludwig in 1961-1964.
This collection contains the autobiographical memoir of Hugh R. McKean, Rice Alumnus, class of 1922. The memoirs cover the early 20th century (through 1922) and for the most part describe the life of a farmer's family in South Texas. A fair amount of the memoirs concern his years as a student, letterman, and Hohenthal Award winner at the Rice Institute. In addition, the memoirs provide McKean's observations about events in Houston during the WWI era.
This collection consists of a letter written by E.V. Stevenson describing his time as a Rice Institute student in 1914-1915. He describes several professors and classes as well as the campus surroundings.
This is a typed copy of an autobiography of William Hayne Leavell (1850-1930). Leavell served as minister of the First Presbyterian Church in Houston from 1893 to 1905. After serving as an envoy to Guatemala (1913-1919), he returned to Houston. The autobiography, written in 1920 by Leavell, transcribed later by his daughter and edited into this typescript in 1979 by Alec Bayless and Larry Noble, describes Leavell's career at the First Presbyterian Church in Houston, his service in Guatemala, and his connections to William Marsh Rice and the Rice Institute. Several well-known Houstonians are mentioned in the manuscript, including: Captain Peden and his son, E.A. Peden, Captain Baker, William Marsh Rice, and E.A. Sewall.
This collection documents Dr. Martin Friedland's research and writing of his book, "The Death of Old Man Rice" (published 1994), and includes rough working notes, manuscript drafts, subject files, and photocopies of the original trial manuscript.
The papers consist of historian John B. Boles' Baltimore Museum of Art draft text and accompanying board proofs; Higginbotham Symposium 1984/85 correspondence, individual drafts of articles, and proofs; and drafts of Professor Boles' earlier works, including The Great Revival, 1787-1805: the origins of the Southern evangelical mind; Religion in Antebellum Kentucky; America: The Middle Period; and Masters and Slaves in the House of the Lord.
This collection contains the correspondence, manuscript verse, and proofs of poems of the poet Sir William Watson. Correspondents include R. Ellis Roberts, Clarence Winchester (of the Amalgamated Press), and T.N. Green-Armytage.
This collection contains Stayton Nunn's papers from 1927-1967 and includes notes and materials related to architecture classes, building projects in the Houston area, house plans and other architectural-related papers. Nunn taught architecture classes at the Rice Institute and was an alumnus as well.
These papers include correspondence between University of Houston economist Ervin Zingler and his wife, Gilberta, as well as academic materials, publications and awards.
The collection consists of letters, newspaper clippings, military reports and documents and original photographs, certificates, a small group of callings cards, and memorabilia. The collection focuses on the military career and death of a first generation American pilot, Jerry C. Debes, of Syrian heritage, in the European Theater of World War II and the subsequent efforts of his family to honor his memory.
This collection contains the autographs of Jefferson Davis, Judah P. Benjamin, and Steven R. Mallory.
This collection contains a letter from Herbert Hoover to J. Hugh Jackson, Dean of Stanford University, informing him that Hoover nominated him for the Presidency of the Rice Institute.
This collection contains one handwritten letter from Sir Julian Huxley to Dr. Ernst Mayr, and three typed letters from Lady Juliette Huxley to Mayr. Lady Huxley's letters were written after Sir Julian's death, and they express her wishes to memorialize her husband.
This collection contains a scrapbook that includes the history, lists of members, programs, photographs, and clippings from the Houston, TX Discussion Group. The scrapbook catalogues the club's list of members from 1947-1994. The chronologically arranged folders in box 2 includes annual communications, program information and rosters, 1990-2019.
This collection documents the path of Rev. William A. "Bill" Lawson as a minister and religious educator in Houston, Texas. It includes teaching materials, recorded sermons, notes for sermons, and church bulletins for Wheeler Avenue Baptist Church.
These Papers represent a portion of the literary career of Dr. Robert L. Patten of Rice University. His writings reflect his interests in Victorian graphic art, history of 19th century publishing, and renowned author Charles Dickens along with renowned illustrator George Cruikshank. Formats include drafts, notes and correspondence related to Dr. Patten's books, articles, lectures and reviews.
Audio recordings and administrative files reflecting the daily business of the KTRU Radio station at Rice University. Recordings include newscasts, interviews with rock, jazz and classical musicians, Rice Presidents' State of the University speeches and recorded live music. Administrative records include radio directors' meeting minutes, "Gripes and Groans" books from the DJ booth, programming notes, election forms, DJ handbook, licensing information, and correspondence.
Date range: 1962-2012
Quantity: 13.5 linear feet (27 boxes)
This collection contains ten boxes of material related to the history and operation of Ellington Field, also known as Ellington Air Force Base, near Houston, Texas. The majority of the records date from 1917-2007, and include historical research materials, photographs, books, microfilm, postcards, and memorabilia. The foundation of the collection was material assembled by historian Kathryn Black Morrow for the publication of a history of Ellington Field.
Correspondence and memorabilia from Rice Institute student Anah Marie Leland, future wife of William McIver Streetman, regarding student life, academics and athletics first at Houston's Central High School 1915-1918, and following at Rice Institute, 1918-1922. Letters continue to 1953.
Meeting notes, agendas, transcripts and reports mainly related to E.W. Kelley's work on Federal Open Market Committee as Governor for the Federal Reserve's Board of Governors.
This collection consists of 2 hand colored engraved prints. These appear to date from 1598 and 1700 but are mounted on acidic board and cannot be fully examined. The prints include bird's-eye views of Italian villa of Caprarola and Danish capital of Odense.
Champions Golf Club was founded by golfing greats Jimmy Demaret and Jack Burke, Jr. in 1957 with the purpose of promoting the game of golf and bring active competition to its members and guests and to host significant national championships. The club is located north of Houston, Texas along the FM (Farmers Market road) 1960. This collection includes photographs, business papers, correspondence, news clips, and area maps from 1956 to 2007. The collection consists of 24 boxes and cartons with oversize items in a map draw. The collection is 22 linear feet.
CBEN-ICON Kristen Kulinowski academic papers contain records of the Center for Biological and Environmnetal Nanotechnology (CBEN) and the International Council on Nanotechnology (ICON) from roughly 2004 to 2008. Kulinowski was executive director of CBEN and director of ICON. This collection consists of six boxes of mixed media, including text, correspondence, publications, brochures and multimedia formats, such as DVDs. Subjects include the administrative side of CBEN and ICON, work with the National Science Foundation (NSF) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and numerous conferences and workshops. The materials measure 6 linear feet (6 boxes).
Records pertaining to the Rice University Admissions Committee between 1946 and 1988. Includes admission forms, minutes, memos, reports, and correspondence.
Takao Doi, who received his doctorate from Rice, carried this cloth image of the Orion Nebula on the Unites States Space Shuttle Endeavour mission STS-123. The Endeavour launched at 2:28 a.m. March 11, 2008 from launch pad 39A at Kennedy Space Center, Florida. Doi was a mission specialist on that mission. The image of the Orion Nebula is on a cloth that is 21.5 inches wide by 17 inches high. The cloth is of an unknown material and appears to be printed in color by a computer-generated technique. Also included with the cloth is a NASA certificate of authenticity and a letter from Rice President David Leebron thanking him Doi for his donation. The materials are in good condition. The collection is about 0.05 linear feet (one over size folder).
This collection includes manuscripts, related correspondence and notes concerning the publication of the Austrian History Newsletter and Yearbook, consisting primarily of the typescripts for articles.
The minutes, reports, memoranda and correspondence generated by the Committee on Campus Safety and by its predecessor, the Committee on Disasters and Emergencies. The collection is arranged chronologically.
The Houston Book Clubs Research Materials consist of material from 1993-2007, including interviews, surveys, emails, reports, essays, lists, and correspondence between Elizabeth Long and members of the literary community. The files were compiled by Elizabeth Long during her study of the role of women's reading groups for her 2003 book "Book Clubs: Women and the Uses of Reading in Everyday Life" (University of Chicago Press).
Copies of annotated typewritten summaries of Eyes of Texas television episodes 1979-1993 and 2007-2009 as prepared by KPRC-TV, and copies of those episodes in DVD format, beginning Sept. 02, 1978.
Collection contains the academic writings, professional and personal correspondence, courses taught, and biographical information of Ira Gruber before and while a professor of History at Rice University.
Official records of the Rice University Office of the Controller 1908 through 2008. Collection equals 4 boxes (4 linear feet).
Contains memoranda on organization, faculty, student, research, human resource, and general policies of Rice University, divided into folders by each policy section.
This collection consists of correspondence, research notes, and published articles and manuscripts related to German and Slavic Studies by Rice University professor Susan L. Clark, as well as some co-authored by her colleague Julian M. Wasserman. Collection Date Range: 1976-1990. This collection is 1.5 linear feet (3 boxes).
An assortment of prints, photographs, negatives, and negative slides concerning the Rice University campus, student life, sports, professors, the O'Conner House, the Baker Institute, commencements, and other University events. Most of these photographs were taken by Campus Photographers Thomas LaVergne, Philip Channing, and Jeff Fitlow.
Memoranda, correspondence and reports of the Committee on Affirmative Action. The committee was organized in 1970 to review progress in equal employment opportunities and to monitor progress in equal employment opportunities and to monitor progress towards the University's goals for new hire. The papers are arranged chronologically; later years (1976-) consist primarily of letters of appointment to the committee and replies to those letters.
This collection consists of circa 700 color prints stolen from the journals (the journal of the British Ornithologists' Union) and Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London, owned by the Fondren Library. The prints date from 1859-1915 and feature birds, bird eggs, and other animals. Theft correspondence and research dates from 1980-2004 and represents the Fondren Library's efforts to cooperate with and assist in the Blumberg investigation.
The collection consists of letters from Camp Logan and from France, wartime decorations, uniforms, and personal military equipment, as well as Bruster's Mother's Red Cross Uniform and service pin.
This collection is composed of organizational papers relating to the Scientia Institute at Rice University. It includes copies of the organization's charter, by-laws, membership lists, speakers, correspondence, meeting minutes, audio/visual materials, and general information.
These scrapbooks contain photographs, correspondence, invitations, event programs, news clippings, and memorabilia collected by Lynn Wyatt, documenting her work with charitable and fine arts organizations, leadership as a Houston socialite and best-dressed icon, and international travels.
Collection contains the writings and publications of Dr. Martin's distinguished career dealing with religion, drug policy, religious fundamentalism and its effect on popular culture/politics, Texas churches, and life as a cancer survivor.
Rice University News and Media Relations has also been known in the past as News and Publications. This office creates and manages news releases on behalf of the university. The photo and biographical files in this collection were created and maintained by that office for use in such news releases.
This collection contains former Athletic Director Bobby May's papers, including correspondence, paperwork, and records, from the years 1987 to 2005. It also contains information from his secretary, Barbara Tolar, and information pertaining to the NCAA, the WAC, Title IX, Endowments, Marketing, the Wingenroth Lawsuit, and Reckling Park.
The collection consists of both published and unpublished records of projects undertaken by the Rice Center for Community Design + Research, subsequently the Rice Center. It also includes records of two projects of the University of Louisville which served as precursors to much of the early research completed at the Rice Center.
The collection consists of the notes, correspondence, and minutes of the Committee on University Welfare, formed in 1961. It served as a grievance committee until 1971 when the committee disbanded and its functions were taken over by the newly organized Faculty Council and the University Council.
The memoranda, reports, proposals and correspondence generated by or for the Rice University Committee on Undergraduate Teaching.
Minutes, memoranda, reports, and correspondence documenting the activities of the Committee on Student Affairs.
These records contain information on commissions, minutes of meetings both of the committee and of the Association of Naval ROTC Colleges; questionnaires sent to other schools with ROTC programs; information on various ROTC summer camp programs and a significant number of correspondences between ROTC Committee chairmen, faculty, and administration.
This material includes minutes of the Rice University Committee on Public Lectures' meetings, lists of lecturers, suggestions for speakers, administrative files, and in some cases, texts of the lectures themselves.
The bulk of these records relate to Akers' administrative roles at Rice University, particularly as Vice President for Administration. Correspondence, memos, articles, newsclippings reflect his interests both as university administrator and as professor in the Department of Chemical Engineering.
The collection consists of papers documenting the professional activity of Gilbert R. Whitaker, Jr. from the 1970's through 2004, primarily at the University of Michigan and Rice University. Included are personal day books, correspondence, newsclips, speeches, and photographs.
The collection consists of a book containing meeting reports and newspaper clippings detailing the activities of the club. Also included is a folio containing manuscript and typescript poetry written by club members.
These records contain files related to acquisitions for the Rice University Art Collection. The files contain images, correspondence, and appraisals as well as donor and accession details.
Biochemistry Department files documenting the daily business of the department, including records of seminars, faculty members' grants, department brochures, budget files, and more. Faculty members represented include but are not limited to Kathleen Beckingham, George N. Bennett, Janet Braam, Susan Gibson, Raymon M. Glantz, Richard H. Gomer, Michael Gustin, Kathleen S. Matthews, John S. Olson, Graham A. Palmer, George N. Phillips, Jr., and Michael Stern.
The collection includes scripts from the 1920s as well as programs, ephemera, and photographs. In addition there are newsclippings and a ledger beginning in 1931 and continuing through 1934 containing lists of members, committee assignments, and minutes of meetings.
The collection consists of correspondence, lists of authors and subscribers and financial records relating to the publication of Soundings (1953).
Photographs, newsclippings, departmental booklets and scrapbooks conveying the history of the Space Science Department at Rice University, 1960s-2020s. (1 box)
The collection consists of 1948 and 1949 correspondence with Brady Tyson, editor of the Rice Thresher; his editorials favoring admission of qualified African Americans to Rice Institute; and newspaper reports on the Tyson material and public response to it. The content ends with President Huston's letter to the editor of the Thresher, pointing out that Rice was chartered for white students only.
Records of the Search Committee for the position of Dean of Architecture, spanning the years 1988 to 1993.
The business records of William Marsh Rice comprise data on his personal investments, his estate records and those of the Institute: ledgers; journals; cash books; day books; check registers; tax records; bank statements; land surveys; payroll and student accounts; letters to and from Rice himself, family members, business associates, employees, and the administrators of his estate.
The collection consists of sales/payment records, tax records, maps, deeds, and correspondence concerning the town lots received by the Rice Institute from the Rice Estate and others purchased in later years. Also included are deeds, construction contracts, inventories, tax records, and correspondence concerning the Rice Hotel and 99-year lease with the Houston Endowment.
Newspaper issues of the Southwest Chinese Journal (cataloged separately), photographs submitted to the newspaper for publication purposes and a small amount of correspondence regarding the Lee Printing Company of Houston, Texas, owned by Gene and Hedy Lee. The newspapers and photographs reflect Chinese culture in Houston during the 1970s and 1980s, including family life, business activities, cultural arts and organizations, news, and special events such as the Miss Chinatown pageants. (1 box, plus newspaper issues)
Correspondence, memoranda, and reports relating to faculty and professional employees no longer associated with Rice University. Includes permanent and temporary appointments.
This record group includes correspondence and event planning documents from the Student Center Board, as well as the daily business, publicity, meeting minutes, and memorabilia of the Rice Program Council (RPC).
These papers include the correspondence, memos, newsclips, and information on candidates under consideration from the Faculty-Student Committee for the Selection of a President following the August 1968 resignation of Kenneth Pitzer.
Faculty offprints, reproductions of individual articles published in scholarly journals, written by Rice University professors, with publication dates ranging from 1897 to 2005.
This record group contains all the records of the Rice University $33 Million Campaign Office. Included are proposals, requests, reports, correspondence, brochures, and newsletters produced during the campaign.
This collection contains records and items related to the Association of Rice Alumni. It includes records and meeting minutes of various alumni committees and boards.
agendas, minutes, advertising, letters to and from candidates, itineraries, and other types of correspondence, files related to committee work, and candidates' files.
Audio and video related to the daily work of the Rice University Office of University Relations.
These materials include correspondence, minutes, notes, and other materials related to the searches for an Associate Provost during the years 1986, 1995, and 1996. Also included are the materials submitted by the applicants for each search. This material is restricted.
Rice University Dean of Social Sciences search records contain documents related to the 1995-1996 and 2006-2006 searches for a new dean of the School of Social Sciences. Applicant materials, committee minutes, and other documents relevant to the search committee are included.
Records reflecting the daily business of the Rice University Office of Admissions, including expense reports for faculty travel and for department spending, application records from potential faculty and graduate students, recruiting and documentation on incoming students.
These papers contain proposals, grants, contracts, experiments, surveys, publications, notes, newsclippings, photographs, and correspondence related to the Department of Geology between 1951 and 1991.
This collection contains correspondence, proposals, reports, budgets, and other materials related primarily to grants administered by the Dean of Natural Sciences (William E. Gordon) during the 1960s and 1970s.
This collection consists of the membership and activity records of thirteen Rice Institute student organizations. The earliest date from 1938, and the latest are from 1962.
This collection contains correspondence, departmental records, course preparation materials, and course assistant records relating to Thomas A. Rabson's career as professor of electrical engineering at Rice University. Also included are conference materials, reference materials, energy research studies and reports, and information concerning Dr. Rabson's grant proposals, consultation with energy and electronics corporations, and expertise in lasers and ferroelectric thin films.
This collection consists of framed paintings, framed and unframed drawings, prints, sculptures, and other artworks donated to the Woodson Research Center/Rice University archives.
This collection includes two bound volumes of battery records concerning personnel, orders, supplies, ordnance and more.
The Office of Finance and Administration generated these records from 1938-2010. Most of the records were created during the tenures of Dean W. Currie, vice president of Finance and Administration, and Neill Binford, associate vice president of Finance and Administration. At the time of these records, Finance and Administration included the departments of Facilities and Engineering, the Controller, Human Resources, Administrative Computing, Food and Housing, Office of the Associate Vice President, and the Budget Office. The vice president of Finance and Administration oversaw the infrastructure of the university, the food services in the colleges, the human resources department and the police department.
The collection consists of scrapbooks, minute books, financial records, and other materials relating to the founding and operation of both the Owen Wister Literary Society (OWLS) undergraduate group and the alumnae group, 1927-2002. OWLS was founded in 1924.
The Vice Provost for Research and Graduate Studies search committee, 1995-1996, was chaired by Ken Kennedy. These records reflect the course of the search and his role as chair. Access to this material requires special permission.
This collection contains Homecoming and Reunions publications and ephemera from the Office of Alumni Affairs from 1974-2021.
This collection includes photographs from the Office of Resource Development's 2000 fundraising events.
This collection is made up of assorted materials associated with the Institute of Biosciences and Bioengineering such as detailed information about the building occupied by the IBB, George R. Brown Hall: the planning, fund raising, donors, and apportioning of space. The collection also includes a twenty-year summary report for the Department of Biochemistry and Cell Biology, ending June 30, 1992. Additionally the collection includes the 1996 final proposal for a National Space Biomedical Research Institute, in which Rice is listed as a consortium member.
The Southern Association for Women Historians presents an annual meeting known as the Southern Conference of Women's History. These annual conference records are predominantly from the conference held at Rice University in Houston, Texas from June 2-5, 1994. Records include planning documents, correspondence, surveys and realia that date from 1989-1997.
The Rice University Office of News and Media Relations keeps the media and the institution's community informed about the latest campus developments. They research, develop and share press releases and record special events on video or audio. That charge led to this collection that consists mostly of VHS tapes which contain news broadcasts and raw footage covering Rice University events or featuring speakers representing Rice University on many topics.
The logbook is approximately 130 pages. The first 80 pages are in Portuguese and cover voyages from Fayal in the Azores to Riga and back to Lisbon, with an additional trip from Fayal to St. Petersburg. The remainder is in English and covers a voyage from Boston to Fayal.
This is a collection of oral history interviews conducted by the Chao Center for Asian Studies, featuring audio recordings and transcripts of interviews with Asian Americans native to Houston.
The log covers the period February 10, 1827, through November 19, 1828, and contains daily reports at sea and in port. The initial pages, and those for the months of May and June 1827, are missing. Entries indicate that the ship departed from its usual Charleston to Boston route in August 1828 and sailed for New York, then to Vera Cruz, Mexico, arriving there three months later. The partial logbook contains approximately 60 pages and measures 11" x 16.25".
Records of the business of the Rice University Honor Council such as hearings and trial abstracts, as well as documentation of procedural and constitutional revisions.
The collection documents the history of Frank Lee Berry, Jr. and his family. Included are photographs, correspondence, genealogical information, and family records.
The collection contains oral history interviews documenting the history of the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community in Houston, Texas. It contains DVDs of the interviews, written and electronic transcripts, and research materials and bibliographies used for the project.
This collection consists of the official guide and calendar, the Houston Chronicle special convention edition, and numerous give-aways and souvenirs.
Records reflecting the business of the Fondren Library Planning Committee, which explored and planned a redesign of the library at Rice University, 1993-1999.
This collection houses the interviews and biographical sketch of David F. Chapman, a 1953 graduate of Rice University in architecture. Background of major projects, the companies Mr. Chapman worked for and lead, and interview/newsclippings with Mr. Chapman and company literature/marketing.
The log reveals the ship's travel from port to port, touching at Calais; Baltimore; Portland; Santiago, Cuba; New York; among others. Its varied cargo included bushels of corn, molasses, sugar, tobacco, etc.
These administrative files of the Rice University Anthropology Department reflect the daily business of the department, including correspondence, conference papers/articles/publications, CVs, research/travel funding requests, student evaluations, hiring and promotional materials, and personnel information. In addition, materials on anthropology syllabi and courses offered are included. This material begins in the 1950s and continues through 2007.
This collection contains papers from Ronald Stebbings, former Vice President of Student Affairs. It includes minutes of faculty meetings of the entire university, as well as faculty meetings of the Space Physics and Astronomy program. It also contains various papers relating to the athletic committee, the publications Faculty Club Forum, and On Campus, and the Honor System. Also contains a photo directory of of faculty, research associates, students, and staff, as well as various items relating to the Space Physics and Astronomy program.
This collection documents the academic career of Dr. Franz R. Brotzen (1915-2010) of Rice University, who served as Stanley C. Moore Professor Emeritus of Materials Science, as Dean of Engineering and as master at Rice's Jones and Brown colleges.
This manuscript collection contains a series of letters written from Commander Levin M. Powell of the USS John Adams to Commodore George W. Storer. Powell comments on the ships supplies and condition, his sailing orders, and the slave trade, while the ship was off the coast of Brazil, near Rio de Janeiro.
Working files of the Rice University Staff Advisory Committee, 1992-2010. (5 boxes)
These records include architectural drawings, renderings and project documentation related to the work of William T. Cannady. As a Professor of Architecture at Rice University since 1964, Cannady teaches both undergraduate and graduate design studios, and is a practicing architect.
The collection contains records and printed material on the early land holdings and dealings of William Marsh Rice and the Rice Institute in 45 Texas counties and 4 Louisiana parishes. The collection also contains records and printed material concerning early Rice Institute campus construction, legal matters (including judicial settlements and statements), institutional housekeeping (including receipts and invoices from 1891-1907), and campus area property and construction.
This collection contains programs from football games.
This collection consists of Rice Institute football scrapbooks, correspondence, team photographs, and sports memorabilia.
The collections includes a series of scrapbooks of the activities of Rice alumni and a series of scrapbooks from Rice University departments, Rice-related events, and other materials related to the life of the university.
The papers contain documents, photographs and printed material which document the career of James R. Sims, who taught civil engineering at Rice Institute (later Rice University) beginning in 1942 as an instructor, to becoming the Herman and George R. Brown Chair of Civil Engineering until his retirement in 1987. He then served as the Herman and George R. Brown Professor Emeritus of Civil Engineering from 1987 until his death in 2009.
This collection consists of photographs and printed materials concerning the Panama Canal and the Isthmus of Panama, collected by William E. Tragsdorf, an early U.S. civil service employee stationed at the Isthmus of Panama. Dates of materials range from 1905-1934, bulk 1905-1906.
The collection consists of picture postcards featuring primarily buildings on the campus of Rice University in Houston, Texas. Included are scenes from as early as 1913 ranging to representations of buildings added to the campus in the 90's. There are also scenes documenting two nationally significant historical events that took place at Rice: President John F. Kennedy's 1961 speech calling for a manned moon landing, and the 1990 Economic Summit, which brought together eight international heads of state.
Records of the Gilbert & Sullivan Society, a group of Faculty members and their wives who staged a number of productions in the 1950s and 1960s.
The architectural papers of Anderson Todd, AIA, cover his academic career at Rice University as well as his private practice in Houston, Texas.
The collection consists of a bronze military medal and ribbon in their original velvet-lined black leather box. It was awarded to 2nd Lt. Thomas E. Bartmess and presented posthumously to his widow, Eleanor Bartmess, on November
3, 1943.
The first page is the legal instrument authorizing public sale of the property of one Samuel A. Burton, deceased. Page two includes a list of enslaved persons including their first names, genders, and ages. It ends with detail of when the sale took place. The second page lists the property that was sold to the highest bidder, one David A. Burton, and its purchase price, $3500.
The Charles W. Duncan, Jr. business papers include correspondence, speeches and writings, memoranda, minutes, reports, studies, printed matter, photographs, memorabilia, newsclippings, and bound volumes. A 1947 graduate of Rice Institute, Duncan served under President Carter as Deputy Secretary of Defense and Secretary of Energy. He served as president of Coca-Cola, Co. and on the board of trustees of Rice University.
This collection is part of a wider compilation of Roy M. Huffington's personal and professional papers. These materials encompass his service in the U.S. Navy during World War II. The materials reflect his continued interest in both the Navy and the history of the conflict. This collection consists of service records, personal correspondence, WWII aerial intelligence photographs, records from various veterans' organizations, and personal research.
The collection consists of two handwritten letters.
This collection contains the personal files of native Houstonian Gertrude Barnstone, including information on her careers in politics, social activism, education, and art. In addition to newsclippings, magazines, programs, invitations, and posters, the collection also contains numerous photographs of her sculptures and her personal sketchbooks.
The material in this collection consists of papers from the files of Andre M.G. Bourgeois, Professor of Romance Languages, at Rice University, concerning the life of Rene Boylseve, with particular reference to poems, written by him to Betty Halperine During the First World War. Rene Boylesve was the pseudonym of Rene-marie-auguste Tardiveau, a French novelist noted for his social histories set in the Touraine region of west-central France. He was elected to the French Academy in 1918. (2 boxes)
Donated by active Republicans Dr. and Mrs. Edward C.M. Chen, these club records show the activities of the Braes Republican Women's Club in Houston, such as meeting minutes and detailed scrapbooks featuring photographs of members and various events. The period of time covered by this material includes Dr. Chen's term of service as Harris County Republican Party Chair. Dr. and Mrs. Chen both appear in this collection, which was maintained by Mrs. Chen. (3 boxes)
Small broadside written by U.S. Representative Edith Nourse Rogers articulating an appeal to women voters to use their votes to "stabilize... this extraordinary era of experimental administration under which we have been living during the past four years."
This collection contains correspondence, programs, and other papers regarding or created by the Chinese American Citizens Alliance (CACA), related to the national organization or to the Houston Lodge specifically, as well as personal papers of Edward K.T. Chen. It also contains a variety of materials about Asian-Americans and Chinese-Americans. (3 boxes)
This collection consists of Rice Hotel (Houston, Tex.) memorabilia and includes menus, drink lists, advertising material, and stationery. Included are a 1913 dinner plate, china and silverplate. In 1886 William Marsh Rice bought the old Capitol Hotel, built in 1882, for unpaid taxes. Rice University obtained the hotel as a bequest from its owner and renamed it the Rice Hotel. Jesse H. Jones purchased the building in 1911, and in 1913 tore it down and replaced it with a new Rice Hotel. The hotel closed in 1977, but the structure was later redesigned as luxury "loft" apartments and reopened in 1988. (1 box)
This collection consists of non-academic papers of Dr. Lynne Huffer that reflect her university community activities while she was on the faculty at Rice from 1998 to 2005. Among these activities are work on a campaign to extend university benefits coverage to domestic partners; protesting against a publicly quoted homophobic statement made by head football coach Ken Hatfield; surveying the Rice campus climate, particularly regarding women; serving on the President's Council on the Campus Climate for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgender individuals; and working on the 2003-2004 ad hoc committee for on-site child care at Rice.
This collection documents the business history of the Roy M. Huffington, Inc., also known as Huffco. There are photos, correspondence files, videos, as well as awards and speeches that Roy M. Huffington gave while he served as CEO and president of the company.
World War II military uniform items and ephemera from Edmund Jack Pecht, who was inducted into the U.S. Army 1942 and honorably discharged in 1945.
The collection consists of correspondence, photographs, personal records, genealogy books, memorabilia, audio and visual materials, and ephemera collected by Nancy Cravens Chamberlain and representing the lives of her grandfather, Joseph Stephen Cullinan; her parents, Mary Cullinan and James R. Cravens; and herself and her siblings.
This collection consists of the physical materials that are represented digitally in the Travelers in the Middle East Archive (TIMEA), a collection created to make possible the study of Western interactions with the Middle East, particularly travel to Egypt in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. The materials are of diverse types: images in the forms of post cards, photographs, and stereograph films; articles, pamphlets, and travel guidebooks; maps, and souvenirs.
The Harold Hyman oral history interviews is a collection of oral history interviews conducted by Dr. Chandler Davidson, featuring audio recordings and a transcript of interviews with Dr. Harold Hyman on his experiences of service in the Marines during World War II.
The Elizabeth Baldwin Literary Society (EBLS) was founded in 1914 and named in honor of the second wife of William Marsh Rice. It was an active organization until the mid 1980s. In 1919, the literary society split to form another society, the Pallas Athene Literary Society (PALS). In 1924, an alumnae group for EBLS was formed. The records contain correspondence, scrapbooks, newsclippings regarding activities, programs from plays performed by the society, as well as correspondence and directories from the alumnae group.
The G. King Walters academic service papers represent Walters' participation on committees and task forces at Rice University. Walters graduated from Rice Institute in 1953 with a degree in physics. He was hired by Rice as a Physics professor in 1963. Walters remained at Rice through retirement in 1999 and beyond, advancing through the professorial ranks to chairman of the physics department, assistant dean of natural sciences, and dean of natural sciences.
Records of The Historical Society meeting notices that give the dates of the meetings and in most cases list the expected speaker and topic.
The collection consists of the constitution, meeting announcements, calendars, directories, and newsletters of the Rice University Business and Professional Women for the years 1986 through 1995. It was created by Nancy Boothe, an archivist at Fondren Library, during the years when she was a member of the organization.
The Sarah Lane Literary Society (SLLS), founded in 1947, was named after Sarah Lane, a 1919 graduate who served as the dean of women, 1931-1950. It disbanded in 1965, but its alumnae stayed active through the 2000s. This record contains correspondence, ledgers, information about events, alumnae directories, alumnae newsletters, and scrapbooks.
Materials collected by the Hispanic Association for Cultural Enrichment at Rice (HACER)to document the history of Hispanics at Rice University, including written and oral accounts of alumni from the 1920s-1950s.
Ecology and Environmental Biology records, including, but not limited to, Annual Reports, Budget Reports, Space Surveys, Faculty and Graduate Recruitment files, Correspondence and Memos. Also includes files and Annual Reports from the last decade of the Biology Department. Faculty members represented include, but are not limited to, Kathleen Matthews, Paul A. Harcombe, Ronald Sass, Stephen Subtelny, and Charles Philpott.
These records reflect the court proceedings of and alumni and public response to Rice Institute's Charter trial of 1964 and later appeals and judgments. The lawsuit was brought by the Rice Institute Trustees seeking to alter the Institute's original charter to allow admission of students of color and to enable the school to charge tuition. Additional changes to the charter in 1982 and 1998 relating to structure of the board of trustees and the university's legal ability to borrow money are also documented here.
Academic papers of Dr. Clark P. Read. Includes correspondence, collected publications, and personal research completed between the years 1952 and 1971.
The Dean of Continuing Education Records contain materials related to the Dean of Continuing Education, specifically Mary McIntire. These records consist of financial statements, blueprints, images, proposals, correspondence, student publications, pamphlets, and surveys. The records begin in 1987 and continue through 2001, with the bulk of the information starting in the early 1990s.
These papers contain letters, e-mails, lectures, pamphlets, notes, and administrative papers relating to the Academic career of Gale Stokes from 1965 to 2012.
Committee records, manuscript drafts, print and digital images, and reviews document the process undertaken by the Rice Historical Society to organize and have published: Rice University: One Hundred Years in Pictures.
The papers include posters made for the History 251 class in the spring of 2012 about life in Rio de Janeiro.
This collection is composed of papers and media relating to the DeLange Conferences held at Rice University. It includes correspondence, marketing materials, conference materials, reports, photographs, and electronic media that document the preparation leading up to the conferences and the activities during conferences.
Publications by Dr. Jorge Awapara, arranged in order chronologically.
The collection consists of records related to the 1990 Economic Summit, which took place on the Rice University campus. It includes a detailed schedule as well as information about specific meeting locations and the building modifications they required. It was created by Sally McKeag during the time she served as the site director.
This collection consists of correspondence, financial information, newsletters, newsclippings, photographs, recordings, memorabilia, and uniforms related to Rice University Bands, including MOB, Rice Jazz Ensemble, and Rice Concert Band.
Oral history interviews and research materials dating from 1975-1978 related to Fredericka Meiners' book, A History of Rice University: The Institute Years, 1907-1963, which was commissioned by the Rice Historical Commission.
This collection includes original audiotapes, transcripts of selected interviews, related correspondence, documents, typescripts, and notes, and a digitized version of the audiotapes (created 2003 by the generosity of the Rice Historical Society). A small amount of office files for the Rice Historical Commission reflect the early activities and goals of the Commission during the dates 1975-1978.
This collection consists of the personal and academic papers of Mary Fosselman.
This collections consists of the academic papers of Riki Kobayashi, including his correspondence, publications, and course materials.
The Student Association Records consist of a variety of material related to the Rice University Student Association. These records include meeting minutes, correspondence, memos, constitution and bylaws, financial documents, floor plans, reports, employee contracts, proposals, and student publications. The material begins in 1918 and continues through 2013, with the bulk of the information starting in the early 1960s.
The collection consists of materials created by participants in the NSF-funded ADVANCE Project, which was undertaken to increase the participation of women faculty and faculty of color in the departments of science, technology, engineering, and math at Rice University. There are records of meetings, surveys, workshops, research articles, and electronic versions of sponsored events.
The collection consists of membership and financial records of the Theta Chapter of Pi Delta Phi, the National French Honor Society, from 1930 through 2000. There are yearly membership lists, records of dues received and expenditures made. Initiation programs are also included, as are records of donations that established the André Bourgeois Pi Delta Phi Award in 1994.
The collection consists of records of intramural athletic activities at Rice University from when they were first organized in 1939 through 1995. Included are documents showing the sports offered, yearly numbers of participants, of annual winners in competitions, photographs of some of the teams, and newsclippings, primarily from the campus newspaper, the Thresher.
These records contain programs and information packets from the formal opening of the Rice Institute, October 10-12, 1912.
The collection consists of records of the work of the faculty Committee on the Undergraduate Curriculum over the period 1966 through 1990. There are membership lists, meeting minutes, reports, memoranda, and correspondence. Topics covered include general graduation requirements, specific requirements in particular departments, evaluation of particular programs, student advising, curriculum revision, and debate about credit for Advanced Placement courses.
The collection consists of background information about The Other Economic Summit (TOES) at Rice University, organizational and press materials for TOES, 1990, publications generated by the meetings, and audio tapes of proceedings.
These records include the daily business, projects, and publicity for Rice PRIDE student group. (2 boxes)
The collection consists of materials documenting the beginning of Women's Studies as an academic discipline at Rice University. In addition there are materials describing Rice Women's Conferences that took place in 1996 and 1999. The collection also includes a set of audio cassette-recorded interviews with attendees at the 1996 conference.
This collection consists of materials collected by former Masters of Brown College, Rice University.
This collection contains correspondence and lecture notes from faculty of the Department of Chemical Engineering.
Family trees, notes, photographs, correspondence and newsclippings documenting the family history of Bobby Joe Moon, a Houstonian of Chinese American descent.
These records mostly include the photographs and negatives taken by "The Rice Thresher's" photographers, as well as research and issues pertaining to Rice University's student newspaper.
This collection consists of interview transcripts, audio files, program images, and historical documents compiled by JD Doyle. (1 Flash Drive)
The Fred C. Alter papers contain correspondence, memorabilia, Rice notebooks, a personal scrapbook, photographs, and material related to the Robert P. Quin Award.
These records mostly include the photographs and negatives taken by Rice News photographers, as well as digital image files and copies of individual newspapers.
This collection comprises records of the Kiwanis Club of Houston's board of directors, committees, projects, finances, conventions, and retired members, as well as records from the Kiwanis Foundation of Houston, the Kiwanis Texas-Oklahoma District, and Kiwanis International.
Three leaves of rare 13th and 15th century Catholic liturgical manuscripts, hand drawn and beautifully illustrated on vellum.
This collection is part of a wider compilation of Roy M. Huffington's personal and professional papers. Specifically, these papers encompass Huffington's appointment and work as Ambassador to Austria, as well as the numerous political, personal, and business connections he made while serving in Vienna.
This is a collection of oral history interviews of members of the Zoroastrian Association of Houston (ZAH), conducted by fellow members of the ZAH.
This collection consists of business papers, articles, photographs, and awards created by or about Gordon Quan, immigration lawyer and former Houston City Council member. Also included are articles and items about the Houston community in general and the Houston Asian American community specifically.
This collection contains track memorabilia of Paul Hurshel Sanders. Included are several medals, trophies, track shoes, and scrapbooks of newspaper clippings.
The material in this collection consists of material pertaining to Rice University's search for a Vice Provost of Research. Files present include candidate CVs, lists of potential candidates, an outline of the Vice Provost for Research search goals, and the selected candidate's offer letter and background check.
Records of Dr. David Schneider's career at Rice University dealing with different aspects of Schneider's career and works. These subseries include letters, e-mails, papers, department data, and evaluations involving Schneider and other faculty within the Psychology Department.
These records mainly include information on the construction of the Ley Student Center, renovations of the Rice Memorial Center, and art exhibits.
This collection consists of research files; course materials; selected student papers; documents related to the daily and annual business of the sociology department, including financial reports, departmental memos, faculty evaluations, and correspondence; and In addition there are drafts, typescripts, and published articles written by Elizabeth Long.
Correspondence between biologist Julian Huxley to Anita Loos, American screenwriter, playwright, and author. Many of these are great in length and most with remarkable content, evidencing the intimacy of Huxley and Loos.
The Lambiotte Family/Francis Poulenc archive contains materials that document Poulenc's life and career during his long friendship with the Lambiotte family, a Belgian family with close ties of friendship to the composer. The collection includes autograph musical manuscripts, signed and inscribed printed musical scores, letters, photographs, publications, and ephemera. Dates for the collection range from 1920 to 1994, with bulk dates from 1920 to 1963.
The collection consists primarily of correspondence and budget records. Also included are one legal brief (John Coffee et al vs. Rice University) and printed booklets from the inauguration of Kenneth S. Pitzer and the Semicentennial convocation. The Certificate of Merit for Distinction in Physics presented to Dr. Houston is also included.
This collection consists of the schedule of the commencement ceremony, a script of the ceremony, the seating plan, the marching order of faculty participants, a rain plan, a degree listing by candidates, and committee reports, most for the 1986 ceremony.
The holding consists of an Indentured Servant Contract between the Duke of Chandos and one George Harvey, a parchment document, approximately 23 x 29 inches in size, in English and dated 1761, setting forth the terms of the indenture.
This collection includes publicity, ephemera, dedication event photos and more, related to works of art on the Rice University campus.
This collection contains typescripts, proofs, correspondence, microfilm, and notecards of Madeleine Alcover for her critical editions and studies on Cyrano de Bergerac; Cyrano's family, as well as his writer-friends Charles d'Assoucy, Le Royer de Prades, Henry Le Bret, and others. The collection also contains documents and correspondence related to Alcover's academic career.
The Jesse H. Jones Family and Personal Papers, consisting of 92 boxes, detail the lives of individual Jones family members and are highlighted by the Jesse H. Jones personal papers consisting of correspondence, photographs, financial, legal, speeches and business records, as well as the political, civic-related and public service records for which Jones is well known.
The M.T. Jones Lumber Co. Records & Business Ledgers, 1890-1920, consist of business records, correspondence, letterpress books, invoices, orders, shipping records, and ledgers for the daily operations and administration of the lumber company for Texas, Oklahoma, New Mexico, Arizona and Colorado.
This collection comprises the corporate and property records of Jesse H. Jones, as well as research materials for Unprecedented Power by Steven Fenberg. Between 1992 and 1995, Mr. Fenberg and architectural historian Barrie Scardino processed and organized the collection at the behest of Houston Endowment. After their transfer to Rice University some adjustments were made to the organization and nomenclature, but most of the structure they imposed remains intact. Significant areas covered in the records include Jone's many business ventures and property developments throughout the 20th century. For a more comprehensive assessment of this material, Fenberg's original introduction is included below.
The collection includes individual files for Rice related persons (faculty, students, alumni, staff, significant visitors), events, programs, traditions, campus artworks, organizations, buildings, and subjects.
The formats include newsclippings, notes, correspondence, photographs, and other materials. The contents are donated by Rice community members and/or gathered by the Woodson Research Staff, and represent one of the most heavily used portions of the University Archives.
The papers of biochemist and cell biologist Frederick (Fred) Rudolph (1944-2003) document his 31 years on the faculty of Rice University and his tenure as director of Rice's Institute of Biosciences and Bioengineering. Topics include Rudolph's research, grant projects, patents, courses taught, departmental administration, and committee service. Formats include reports, notes, charts, correspondence, slides, and photographs. Rudolph's work led to the discovery that several key nucleotides needed by infants for healthy immune function were missing from standard baby formula, leading every major producer of baby formula to add those ingredients.
This collection includes individual files for photographs of Rice related persons, photographs of Rice University views, interiors, and buildings, photographs of Rice related events, and more.
The contents are donated by Rice community members and/or gathered by the Woodson Research Staff, and represent one of the most heavily used portions of the University archives.
This collection contains the professional files of Rice University professor of Musicology Marcia Citron. The collection contains essays, journals, newsclippings, magazines, programs, correspondence, conference ephemera, etc.
The collection
contains administrative records of the Houston Chapter of the IAAP from its founding in 1948
through 2003. Committee reports, correspondence, scrapbooks, photographs, and newsclippings
pertain to the chapter's activities.
The central item in this collection is a remarkable contemporary manuscript report of Robert Schumann's conducting at Dusseldorf, written by W. Wortmann, deputy mayor of Düsseldorf and a leading member of the administration of the Allgemeiner Musikverein (of whose orchestra and chorus Schumann had been appointed director in 1850).
The collection consists of materials accumulated by a major alumni supporter of Rice athletics over sixty years. Included is a program from the Texas Relays in 1926 which shows the discus throwing record in the Southwest Conference held by the creator of the collection. There are programs from a few other particular events, but most of the collection relates to the R Association, of which Stancliff was secretary-treasurer for over sixty years. There are membership lists, correspondence with specific supporters, records of travel costs, information about fund-raising activities, and memorabilia from the 1930's through the 1970's.
Correspondence, reports, research notes, and photographs created and/or maintained by Mr. Reginald Moore, relating to the history of the Convict Leasing System in Sugar Land, Texas and current efforts to publicly recognize that history.
Records created by or pertaining to the Dean of Students, including Honor Council cases and disciplinary records.
Correspondence, news clippings, contracts, speeches, reports, minutes, and other types of documents used in conducting the business of the President's Office from the Assistant to the President, Mark Scheid 1999-2006.
The collection consists of records of the work of the presidentially appointed committee of faculty, staff, and students responsible for planning parking arrangements and policies for the Rice campus. Among the subjects discussed were fees for parking in varied locations, costs of the bus system, and the installation of a traffic light at the Rice Boulevard campus boundary.
This collection includes t-shirts created by the Rice Hillel community in 2012-2013, with a shirt for each of the Rice University residential colleges, featuring the college name written in Hebrew.
This is a collection of oral history interviews conducted by the Vietnamese American Heritage Foundation, featuring audio recordings and transcripts of interviews with Vietnamese Americans living in and near Houston, Texas. These interviews are online at https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/79696.
The John D. Kirkland Baker Botts public records of corporations & memorabilia contains bound volumes of business records and memorabilia.
The HaviKoro Crew Collection contains T-shirts, posters, hand painted shoes, hand painted jacket, documents, oversized posters and banners.
The Pimp C rap artist collection includes several documents and promotional items including handwritten lyrics and contracts to promotional flats for his group Underground Kingz (UGK).
The collection includes Diana P. Hobby's writing and research notes, from the early 1950s to 2014, focused on her study of William Butler Yeats. The bulk of the collection consists of family photographs and slides from the Hobby family's worldwide travels and their frequent visits to Ireland, and to Diana Hobby's family farm in North Carolina, Forest Home, along with their equestrian endeavors and competitions, and their lives and friends in Houston, TX.
This collection contains the light operas, "The Maid of Manalay," and "The Alaskan." Handwritten music manuscripts comprise the bulk of the collection along with published scores.
These records reflect the business of the Vice Provost and University Librarian search committee of 2007, whose efforts resulted in the hiring of Sara Lowman.
Records related to the search committee for the position of Vice President for Enrollment, which served from 1998-1999.
This collection consists of two documents, a 1995 report of the faculty and staff General Announcements Review Committee and a draft of a 2006 report by Christopher Dow of the Publications Office.
This collection consists of materials from the Center for Civic Leadership offices. It includes office files and journals and scrapbooks created by students.
Event planning documents, correspondence, notes, drafts, press releases, memos, newsclippings, photographs, and memorabilia created and maintained by Rice University in support of the 1990 Economic Summit of Industrialized Nations, hosted by Rice University.
Rice University paper scrolls representing and describing gifts to Rice the establishment of Chairs, Scholarships, Lectureships, 1918-2013.
The collection consists of planning materials in preparation for the 1990-91 celebration of the centennial of the charter establishing Rice Institute. The collection includes the committee's charge from President George Rupp, records of committee and subcommittee membership, notes, memos, meeting minutes, recommendations, reports, and correspondence.
Records reflecting the official business of the Shepherd School Dean Search Committee, 2002-2003, including documentation of faculty input, correspondence, candidate evaluations, potential candidate information, and candidate files.
This collection consists of digital and printed scans and copies from Don Sanders' scrapbooks.
This collection consists of correspondence, photographs, scrapbooks, schedules, and other items chronicling the musical history of Wheatfield and St. Elmo's Fire.
This collection contains items documenting the Houston Folk music scene from the 1970s-1980s.
This collection consists of the business records, promotional calendars, and digital images that chronicle Rockefeller's music venue.
This collection consists of correspondence, minutes, and memorabilia created by the Black Students' Union and the Black Student Association.
This collection consists of awards and scrapbooks from the Vietnamese Student Association.
This collection consists of minutes, club information, and events of the Rice Alliance for Mental Health Awareness club.
This collection consists of correspondence, minutes, and event information created by the Rice Computer Science Club.
This collection contains a wide variety of realia from Rice University's history, including a variety of jewelry pieces, clothing, athletics-related materials, and various other objects.
VHS tapes, mini-DV tapes, magazines, contracts, and correspondence of Too Short (Todd Anthony Shaw)
This collection includes the wealth of documentation identified from across the United States and beyond and assembled for the purpose of the publication of the Papers of Jefferson Davis, a 14-volume set, funded by the NHPRC, and other activities and persons, beginning in the 1960s and running through 2015. Many of the speeches and letters published in the edition, either in full or summarized, are present in this collection as photocopies or on microfilm. Not every document featured in the edition is currently represented here, as many were on microfilm on loan from the owning repositories for one-time reference use by the project, and such reels have been returned to the owning repositories.
The materials in the DePelchin Children's Center records include the written and visual record of the Center ranging from 1887 to 2000. Highlights include correspondence from and photographs of the founder, Kezia Payne DePelchin. The collection does not contain records of adoptions.
Oral history interviews in audio and transcript format, including interview consent forms filed with the interviews. The primary subject matter is the experience of at least 100 long term survivors, physicians, activists, religious and political leaders and others impacted by HIV / AIDS epidemic in Houston, Harris County and Southeast Texas.
This collection represents the community activism efforts of Mr. Reginald Moore, which has often taken the form of researching topics as represented in newspaper accounts, requesting government records on the topics, and corresponding with officials and engaging in public testimony. Private Sector Initiatives / Home Savers initiative - church based effort which Mr. Moore either led or was just deeply involved in to get the black community out participating in assisting fellow African Americans in repairing their homes via volunteer efforts. (Holman Street) Houston Community College - misappropriation of funds Housing and Urban Development, later renamed as Housing and Community Development, funding shortages. Mr. Moore involved in seeking government records and providing public testimony. Prison reform - experience as correctional officer, research in newspapers, sharing ideas and opinions in public forums such as call-in radio shows (not documented in this collection) and corresponding with public officials regarding legislation for eVerification as a tool to facilitate employment of ex-convicts. Wards and churches in Houston -- research in newspapers, public testimony (in collection, including Antioch Church video testimony at City Council) Yates High School public testimony lobbying to save the building, Houston City Council 2/09/2016 video. Additional methods of activism which are not specifically documented in this collection include frequent radio show call-ins regarding issues relevant to the African American community, for example with the Rev. Jesse Jackson's show "Keep Hope Alive" and Houston radio station Magic 102.1.
30 letters and envelopes written by Captain Edwin Fosha to his wife Rebecca Fosha and children in Illinois
This collection contains copies of autograph scores, lecture notes, articles, and programs from composer Pierre Jalbert's academic and professional files. The materials in the collection date from 2001 through 2014.
This collection contains copies of autograph scores, lecture notes, articles, and programs from composer Arthur Gottschalk's academic and professional files. The materials in the collection date from 1964 through 2019.
This collection consists of materials relating to the uniform and personal equipment of a soldier of the U.S. Army in World War I. In addition there are maps of the areas of operations and an artillery barrage chart for the Reymonville area, 1 November 1918.
The collection consists of print and photographic materials related to the sculpture 45°, 90°, 180° by Michael Heizer located in the School of Engineering quadrangle on the campus of Rice University. The history of the work is covered from the selection and commissioning of the sculptor to the dedication of the completed work and the exhibition featuring Heizer that accompanied this event.
Records documenting the activities of Glenda Joe with the Houston Asian American Festival Association, as well as with community advocacy issues concerning the Asian American communities in Houston, circa 1980-2015.
This collection includes the pieces of a sterling silver dinner service, Kensington pattern by International Silver Co., including accompanying porcelain cups and bowls used by George and Esther Meyer Cohen and family starting in the 1920s. Following his death in 1971 and Esther's in 1978, the service was auctioned and purchased by the donors.
This collection includes autograph music manuscripts, annotated and signed published scores, articles, photos, and notebooks of harpist, composer, and teacher Carlos Salzedo. There are also materials about Alice Chalifoux, Salzedo's student and an influential harpist and teacher in her own right.
This collection mainly consists of memorabilia and ephemera from the music venue Liberty Hall.
This collection mainly contains posters from the Sweetheart of Texas Concert Hall and Saloon.
These research files contain the newspaper clippings, ephemera, and photographs used by Vicki Welch Ayo and William C. DeLaVergne.
These records mainly consist of news clippings and newsletters of the Houston Folklore and Music Society.
The scrapbook contains a photographic record of the deployment of Major Park's unit, the 7th Infantry Division, to Texas and the Mexican border.
This collection includes audio and an oral history.
This collection consists of the fliers, news clippings, photographs, audio, and video chronicling the career of George Ensle.
This collection consists of photographs, news clippings, promotional materials, and audio.
Examples of graphic design work done by Mike Frost for hip-hop artists in the Houston area.
Records of the President's Office Executive Committee, formed in August 1968 by President Pitzer to function after Pitzer's resignation. Includes minutes, memoranda, correspondence, notes, and materials pertaining to the Board of Governors.
The George R. Miner, Jr. Rice memorabilia collection focuses on Rice University athletics. It contains mostly photographs of athletes, coaches, along with action shots of various sports, the majority concerning football. There are also photographs and memorabilia of team reunions, the Rice Athletic Hall of Fame, and Rice alumni events.
The Daley Papers include personal documents from Daley's high school and Rice University years, a play script and original artwork. There are also photographs of Rice and of World War II infantry and intelligence units, along with some newspaper clippings and correspondence from 1946 and 1963.
Pamphlets and documents documenting the history of Texas railroad lines such as Houston & Texas Central Railroad Co., Texas & Pacific Railway Co., Texas & New Orleans Railroad Co., Galveston, Harrisburg & San Antonio Railway Co.
This scrapbook was created by James S. Waters' wife Pauline Lackner Waters to document his time in service, both in training and on the battlefield. It includes memorabilia such as Waters' Officer's Record Book, Battle Insignia, Overseas Service Chevrons, documents recording his vaccination, and receipts from purchases made at the Ordnance Store. Many of the pages contain photos showing Waters' training at Camp Bullis in Texas, his time abroad in France and Germany, and--rarely--his time on leave. The majority of the scrapbook is taken up by newspaper clippings containing news of either the 90th division (of which James Waters was a part), or broader news about World War I as it developed during Waters' time serving. Mrs. Waters also included newspaper clippings that explain the battle insignias of many different divisions--the 90th division prominently displayed alongside Waters' own insignia, as well as several of the telegrams that Waters sent her, letters of permission and commendation sent to Waters by authority figures, and the Christmas letter that Waters sent home to his family in 1918.
This collection consists of news clippings, photographs, and 2-track audio reels.
This collection consists of photographs, negatives, and proof sheets from Bob Roosth's time as Campanile photographer.
The Houston Area Community Services records document the merged efforts of Bering Memorial United Methodist Church and Omega House to serve indigent and underserved patients of HIV/AIDS who could no longer be helped by the traditional medical community. The records are a comprehensive, but not all-inclusive, accounting for the functions of the administrative, financial, committee, business- and service-oriented areas for HACS primarily for the period 1998-2014 as overseen by President Ann Read.
This collection contains costumes worn at Archi-Arts Ball, Freshmen beanies, Rice cheerleading uniforms, athletic sweaters, uniforms, club and program t-shirts, from various campus-wide events.
The collection consists of papers relating to the Rice Quantum Institute, laser and laser fusion studies, articles and personal papers. Professor Tittel was a guest of the 1996 Nobel Prize investiture of his associates Robert Curl and Richard Smalley and his mementos of the occasion are included.
Photographs, correspondence, business records, diaries, scrapbooks and more, documenting the family and business lives of the Bonner and Howard families in Texas in the 20th century.
This collection contains the administrative files, meeting minutes and records, publications, audio/visual (DVDs) presentations, and reports for the Rice University Shell Center for Sustainability.
This collection consists of business records, photographs, audio, newspaper clippings, and correspondence documenting the music career of Sara Hickman.
This collection consists of digital images and hard copies of lyrics, news clippings, photographs, and other materials.
Brochsteins Inc. corporate records contains architectural drawings, images, and business records from 1935-2000.
These papers relate to the scholarly and teaching career of J. Dennis Huston. They reflect the courses he taught on the plays of Shakespeare and other British Renaissance dramatists, on detective fiction, and on works constituting the Western humanities tradition. Also included are materials reflecting the administration of Rice University's required Humanities Foundation Course. There are syllabi of Huston courses, student evaluations of these courses, articles written by others about the teaching of writing, varied short texts written by Huston, correspondence, news clippings, photographs, and ephemera.
This collection consists of School of Engineering Studies, Plans and reports, as well as related materials from Rice University and other institutions.
The Rice University Young Alumni Committee records, 1977-2005 consists of meeting minutes and records of activities during each of the earliest years of the committee.
The collection consists of a variety of visual images--slides, CDs, and photographic prints--of people, events, and activities of the Rice University Bioengineering Department from its establishment in 1997 to 2008, when the ten-year anniversary was celebrated.
The Computational Engineering Building (Duncan Hall) Construction records is comprised of submittals, project manager files, material samples, specifications, and drawings from the planning and construction of Duncan Hall. Duncan Hall is the home of several math, science, and engineering departments at Rice University, including the George R. Brown school of Engineering, Computational and Applied Mathematics, Computer Science, and Statistics. The building was designed by British architect John Outram and constructed between 1994 and 1996.
John T. Jones, Jr. papers document his business dealings through his business and non-profit interests, and public appearances, as well as his personal and family life. Included are correspondence, newsclips, military records, income tax and insurance records, photographs and speeches.
This collection consists of paperwork, slides, newsclippings, photographs, speeches, and paraphernalia relating to the C.D. Broad Exchange between Rice University and Trinity College, Cambridge.
This collection consists of publications across various mediums, from novels and cookbooks, to newsletters and magazines, as well as papers from events celebrating and recording lesbian history.
This collection includes biographical information about individuals in the Ayers, Brown, McCarty, Martin, Diller, Boettner, Crump, Raynor, Ball, Freytag, and Bergeson, and families, among others. The bulk of the collection involves the life and careers of this kinship network, and their commerce, ministries, and artistic work product, and events ranging from the mid 19th century to the mid 20th century. Some documentary history of the Jitney Jungle grocery chain is included.
The collection consists of slides used by Dr. Dufour, including published series by NASA, various observatories, and commercial publishers, along with Dufour's slides.
The Baker-Ripley Foundation records document the history and on-going operations of the Foundation through meetings and financial reports, property, legal and administration records.
This collection consists of digital audio files and images.
Collection contains two newspapers printed for Camp Logan, a souvenir pennant and handkerchief.
8 framed and unframed Persian illuminated manuscripts from 14-16th centuries.
Minutes and notes representing the work of ad hoc and other committees at Rice University.
The papers document Dr. Aresu's teaching career at Rice University during the years of 1983 to 2013.
This collection contains correspondence, news clippings, reports, publications, court documents, and organizational materials documenting some of Henry J. Dannenbaum's work as Special Assistant to the Attorney General, investigating violations of the Mann Act (The White-Slave Traffic Act).
Artifacts, marketing materials, newsletters, and organizational materials document activities, events, news, and operations of Camp Young Judaea in Texas and the surrounding region from 1949-2012.
The collection consists of files of meetings of the Rice Accounting Council from ca 1975-1988. The files may include agendas, table of contents, by-laws and constitutions, minutes, membership lists, financial information, publicity and other material presented at the meetings.
Records of meetings of the Council of Overseers, Jones Graduate School of Administration, including agendas, table of contents, by-laws and constitutions, minutes, membership lists, financial information, publicity and other material presented at the meetings.
Brochures, lectures, seminars, and reading materials for a workshop hosted by Fondren Library on the skills, principles, and best practice in the digitization of primary textual and image resources.
Prayer and worship items of the Jain religion, including embroidered textiles, wooden folding cradle for sacred text, framed mantra text with deity sculpture, red painted metal tray with accompanying red box with red vessel inside, and more.
Correspondence, interview transcripts and materials related to Dr. Linda Driskill's Rice Women's Conference in 1999. The 2012-2013 interviews were conducted by students in two classes of the Introduction to the Study of Women, Gender, and Sexuality, one under Dr. Lora Wildenthal and the other under Dr. Abigail Rosas, in preparation for the 2014 exhibition and symposium at Fondren Library.
The collection includes academic and nursing certification records, as well as nursing career awards for Joana Po's distinguished service, from the 1980s through the 2000s.
Financial records documenting the career and activities of C. Y. Chu. Also included are C. Y. Chu's 1917 middle school diploma, a 1926 U.S. Dept. of Labor return permit, and more. Photographs of family events and business gatherings.
The collection consists of images in a variety of formats of people, buildings, and events and programs associated with the Jones Graduate School of Business since its early years in the laste seventies until the first decade of the 2000s.
The collection contains six boxes of correspondence, event materials (including programs, correspondence, and memorabilia), newsletters, bulletins, news clippings, books, photographs, financial documents, sermons, and video and audio material of events that document the history of Shearith Israel Congregation in Wharton, Texas, from 1921 to 2002.
News clippings, a dance card, reunion and senior class night programs, a high school yearbook, and photographs record events in Gertrude Denn's life - predominantly in the 1940s.
The records reflect the annual alumni events overseen by the Alumni Affairs office between the years of 1992 and 2012 and supervised by Jennifer Harding, Director of Reunion Programs and Special Events.
This collection contains decommissioned laboratory equipment from a variety of academic departments on the Rice University campus.
The collection contains news clippings, newsletters, event programs, photographs, and slides that document a small part of Ellen and Dan Trachtenberg's activism to improve conditions for Soviet Jews.
This collection includes books, correspondence, newspaper clippings, newsletters, photographs, and a speech given by Liberman that document some of her forty-plus- years of teaching.
The collection includes certificates, correspondence, family photos, publications, a Bellaire High School commencement program, speeches, a scrapbook, an oral history, and memorabilia from the 1960 Democratic National Convention that document the activities of Stephen Kaufman, primarily, and to a lesser extent his wife, Ann, and both of their families.
The Croft/Wunsch family papers include correspondence, awards and citations, photographs, scrapbooks, news clippings, newsletters, meeting minutes, and marketing and event materials that document, primarily, the lives of the Croft and Kaplan families, and to a lesser degree, members of the Wunsch family.
The Montrose Center records comprise meeting minutes, Board business, and community services-related records within the date range of 1980 to 2000. Total size is 2.5 linear feet, 3 boxes.
The collection includes individual files within the South Texas Jewish Archives including materials including: newsclippings, notes, correspondence, photographs, and other materials. The contents are donated by community members and/or gathered by the HJHA staff.
The collection contains audio-visual material created and edited by Douglas Killgore during his time at Rice University, both as a student in the 1970s and, decades later, as an independent filmmaker. The materials document people and events at Rice and the history of the university from 1911-2013.
The collection includes one box of personal correspondence, certificates, newspaper and newsletter clippings, photographs, memorabilia, and a scrapbook that document the activities of Reuben Askanase, Hilda Graham Askanase, David Askanase, and Susan Askanase between 1948 and 2013.
The George Meyer Family Photos and Memorabilia contains family photos, photos of the Loraine and George B. Meyer house on Holcombe Blvd. in Houston, a catalog of the company business, and a resolution on the death of Joseph F. Meyer.
Research materials in this collection include a list of burials at Olivewood Cemetery, burial maps, and photographs of the tombstone of Richard Allen. The materials date from 2008, when Louis Aulbach was actively volunteering with the cemetery.
The collection consists of photographic materials, compact discs, and momorabilia spanning the years 1980 to 2009.
This collection contains photographs, clippings, correspondence, and newsletters related to members of the Geller and Leff families from 1896 to 2022.
One box containing certificates, correspondence, a travel journal, photographs, a magazine article, event materials, and a Soviet Jewry nameplate documents Joyce Gilbert's activities in the Houston Jewish community and her work to assist Russian Jewry from 1975 to 2018.
This collection contains a small number of programs, certificates, booklets, an oral history recording and transcript, and correspondence regarding imminent Jewish Associations in Houston and Aubrey Farb's personal papers from 1938 to 2018.
This collection contains materials pertaining to the Texas Jewish Feminist Conference led by Sandra Block as a part of the American Jewish Committee Houston Branch.
This collection contains documents and memorabilia donated by Libby and Edward Marvins related to their time as congregants at Emanu El as well as an oral history conducted with Libby Marvins by staff with the Houston Jewish History Archive in 2018. The materials (including photos, newsprint, correspondence, and other unique items) offer insight into the events and organizations of the Houston Jewish community in the latter half of the 20th century.
This collection contains materials relevant to the century-old Workmen's Circle, a social justice organization dedicated to preserving Jewish identity and activism. The materials include group portraits of members in 1925 and 1945, and a Certificate of Service presented to Edith Winograd Stolbun, whose son donated the collection.
The Martin Nathan Collection contains photographs and scrapbook pages depicting Martin Nathan over the course of his life, with a focus on his Bar Mitzvah. The detailed identification of attendees and extensive gift list offer a clear depiction of the ceremony.
The Seven Acres Records contain newsletters and a gala program showcasing programs and events for the aged, offering a glimpse of elderly care in the Houston Jewish community.
The collection contains correspondence, military paperwork, media, photographs, a scrapbook, and JCC and Workmen's Circle materials, which document the lives of members of the Bell family from 1910 to 2004.
This collection contains a photograph, merchandise tokens, and an historical write-up about the Levine brothers which documents a small part of the history of Levine Bros. General/Department Store in Sealy, Texas, between the years 1947 and 2018.
The collection includes correspondence, certificates, invitations, photographs, booklets, memorabilia and realia that documents Betsy Schreiber's family from 1897 to 1996.
The collection consists of six boxes containing immigration materials, correspondence, marriage records, directories, programs, newsletters, news clippings, photographs, scrapbooks, and memorabilia spanning the years 1896 to 2008.
The collection consists of one box of event materials, a booklet about the history of Beaumont Texas, and four photographs.
This collection consists of posters collected by Jerry "Scooter" Ebel.
This collection consists of fliers and posters collected by Steve Tostenyard.
This collection consists of digitized wav and mp3 files, along with jpeg images of the original 2-track audio reels created by Peter Gardner.
This collection consists of two boxes of membership directories from 1955 to 1965 and 1993 to 2002 and two scrapbooks that span the years 1970 to 1976 and one scrapbook from 1981 to 1983 that include newsletters, event invitations, news clippings, marketing material, photographs, and memorabilia.
The Leon Nad Family Archive contains photographs and a single program reflecting the experiences of family members, including the titular Leon and his father Irving. Both vibrant members of the community, Leon made his mark with his work in tax policy, and Irving through philanthropy.
The Steven Fenberg Papers are comprised of books, correspondence, documents, and newsprint relevant to the life of Steven Fenberg--America's top scholar of influential Houston mogul Jesse H. Jones. Though many of the materials concern Jones, the rest explore Fenberg's other philanthropic interests and connections with the wider Houston community, such as his patronage of AIDS Foundation Houston and affiliation with Congregation Emanu El. Additionally family records such as World War II correspondence and family trees have been added through an addendum donated in 2021 and 2023.
The collection includes one box of correspondence; certificates of military service, public school attendance, marriage, and training; news clippings and part of a newsletter; a conference program; genealogy materials; and numerous photographs of family, friends, and events which document the history and activities of members of the Berman family from 1925 to 1989.
The Bennet L. "Bill" Blumberg scrapbook collection is made up of one award and two scrapbooks containing photographs and news-clippings depicting the lives of Bill Blumberg, his wife Helen, and their family.
The Temple Freda collection is made up of documents, photographs, and news clippings concerning one of the oldest religious buildings in Bryan, Texas. Though used for different things over the years, Temple Freda remains stalwart in its support for the Jewish community in Bryan, interacting with both congregation Beth Shalom, and the A&M Hillel in College Station.
The Fisher Family papers include materials related to Rabbi Henry Cohen and his tenure at congregation B'nai Israel. A writer as a well as a scholar and community activist, Cohen's knowledge of Jewry in Texas survives in the writings he left behind.
The Shelby D. Goodman collection contains concept sketches and photographs of two of Goodman's most influential buildings--the Jewish Federation of Greater Houston Building and the Kaplan Museum of Judaica. In addition, the collection has several religious group photographs, and six sound recordings of Jewish religious music, offering a rich insight into Jewish spaces and traditions in the community.
The collection includes comic art materials from art exhibitions held in Houston between 2015 and 2018.
As part of the Los Angeles Jewish community, Robert Levy interacts with a number of its organizations and institutions. Mostly dated in the early 1930s, Robert Levy's family papers offer a glimpse of Jewish life in Los Angeles nearly a century ago.
The Dattle Family papers are made up of certificates, records, and a photo recording the marriage and military service of Phillip Dattle.
The Chabad of Houston collection contains materials related to the institution's many programs, its history, and especially the galas and events celebrating the impact the Chabad has had on the Houston Jewish community.
The collection consists of one box containing a scrapbook of, primarily, Morton Levy's architectural drawings of the proposed renovation to Congregation Brith Shalom's interior, correspondence, newsclippings, and photographs of the congregation's interior from 1986-1996. In addition to the drawings in the scrapbook there are ten prints from Levy's portfolio (1997) of a number of synagogues that he worked on. The rest of the material -- two Congregation Beth Israel bulletins, newsclippings, and two group photographs of Barnston B.B.G. members -- is from 1948 to 1954.
The collection consists of a binder of the Houston Hadassah chapter's Business and Professional committee's meeting minutes and other Hadassah materials, yearbooks, directories, recipes and newspaper clippings ranging from 1937 to 2012.
The collection consists of materials from and related to the term of Rush Moody, Jr. on the Federal Power Commission from 1971 to 1976.
21 bound event programs, 2006-2016, and 12 books to be cataloged separately with the following note: Gift: Donated by Flor Guinhawa, of the Philippine-American Chamber of Commerce Texas, via the Chao Center for Asian Studies, Rice University.
The Robert I. Cohen gift store printing plate offers a fascinating glimpse into Cohen's creative approach to advertising in his hugely influential department store businesses. The plate, meant to draw patrons in with its festive message, is redolent of Christmas shopping at the department store in the early 1900s.
The Shirley Wetzel archaeology notes on Nottingham include both primary sources from Wetzel's work on the 1890 Nottingham Lace Factory site, sources used in identifying archaeological finds, press surrounding the discoveries she made, and materials from her presentation of the work in 2007, such as maps and powerpoint slides.
These records include the creative output of the Rice Television and Video Production organization, which comprises student events and original programming.
The Congregation Beth Israel Collection offers a glimpse into the day-to-day goings-on of Congregation Beth Israel, with documents spanning a century of the Jewish temple's existence. Books, memorabilia, directories, programs, sermons, and church bulletins from different decades show the similarities and changes at Beth Israel as it continues to grow with the rest of Houston's Jewish Community.
The collection contains family photos of the Gor, Chow, and Fong families, with 2 pages of biographical information.
This collection which spans 1939 to 2018 includes a 1939-1943 notebook from the Refugee Services Committee which assisted Jews fleeing the Nazi regime in WWII, as well as a variety of photographs of people and events from the Federation's activities in the 1980s. The addendum includes event programs, guides, and one VHS recording.
Stages Theater records contain materials related to play production programs and other production materials from 1978-2016, press clippings, annual gala and events records, administrative records, photographs, and circa 200 audio and video recordings in analog formats such as VHS and audio cassette.
The collection consists of a range of keepsakes memorializing the lives of Herman and Margarett Root Brown and their family. The oldest in time are the high school senior class yearbook of Herman Brown and a framed loan document bearing his signature. There are many photographs, both formal portraits and small snapshots as well as intermediate size pictures. Among the people featured in addition to Herman, Margarett, and their children are the mother and sisters of Herman and George Brown, the wife and daughters of George, and some business associates.
The collection consists of one box containing nine letters in Yiddish from Morris Greenfield to his future wife, Bessie Peters (Polycov), in 1915 and one large family photograph with three generation of Greenfields from 1918.
This collection is made up of one box containing correspondence, photographs, news clippings, certificates, newsletters, and programs from the Schlanger Family, spanning from 1937-1985.
The Jeanmarie Amend collection is a snapshot of the life of a student at Rice in the early 1980s. A prolific writer (both professionally and personally), Jeanmarie recorded several journals detailing her time at Rice. In addition to her school papers, the collection contains schoolbooks, news clippings, correspondence, photographs, and memorabilia--each contributing the the vibrant picture of Jeanmarie's university days.
This collection is made up of four boxes containing certificates, correspondence, event materials, memorabilia, news clippings, photographs, scrapbooks, and publications from the Gaber/Kline Family, spanning from 1916 to 2017.
The Gigi Yellen-Kohn family papers are comprised of documents, news-clippings, photographs, and memorabilia from the Yellen-Kohn family. A family tree of the Yellen-Kohn family can be found in the control folder.
The collection consists of two boxes of correspondence, newspaper clippings, newsletters, programs, photographic material, and media (VHS, audio cassettes, and cds) that document some of Janice Rubin's activities as a teacher, musician, and photographer within the Houston Jewish community from 1953 to 2015. Also included is a packet of materials provided to Jewish service members during World War II.
This collection is made up of one box containing rosters/address books, calendars, camp information materials, publications, and religious school materials from the Rubinsky Family, spanning from 1991-2001.
The Weinstein Family papers showcase Irving and Lily Weinstein, and their ties to the broader Houston Jewish community. Irving's service in World War II and Lily's civic engagement with both San Jacinto High School and Congregation Beth Israel are preserved in the letters they exchanged while Irving was overseas. Featuring photographs, news clippings, and a plethora of military correspondence and documentation, the Weinstein Family papers offer insight into a century of Jewish History.
The collection consists of one box of correspondence, event materials, news clippings, newsletters, and institutional records such as, committee meeting minutes, speeches, and fundraising materials from Congregation Beth Am between 1978 and 2022 and an oral history with Rabbi Gideon Estes in 2020.
The Tania Brown Family Papers feature the wartime record of Frank Brown, shown through correspondence and documents, and Rachel Mayer Brown's involvement in the Texas Southern Region's Hadassah Organization through a photo album memorializing her experiences and connections to the larger Jewish Community.
The collection consists of records, news coverage, and materials from the career of Regents Professor Emeritus Dr. George C. Y. Chiou.
A gift to the Gus Buck Chapter of the B'nai B'rith Girls, the Gus Buck BBG Banner serves as a lasting reminder of the organizations tying the Jewish community together around the world.
The collection consists of personal photographs, a play written about Ben Katz, Beth Yeshurun programs, a VHS recording, and materials about the history of Beth Yeshurun that document some activities and interests of the Katz family within the Houston Jewish community from 1939 to 1991.
The Colish / Samuels Family Papers follow the early days of Rabbi Robert Lewis Samuels through his attendance at Lanier Junior High and San Jacinto High School, his Confirmation, and participation in activities like the Aleph Zadik Aleph organization and sports teams for football and baseball.
The Westheimer/Simon family papers span several generations of the family living in Houston, and making their mark on the Houston Jewish community. With a variety of materials ranging from correspondence to photographs, sermons to yearbooks, the Westheimer/Simon family papers are a rich trove for any researcher interested in the history of one of Houston's more influential families.
The collection consists of explanatory materials intended for prospective
students, calendars of departmental events, and programs from shows presented in 2007 through 2018.
The collection consists of materials from Dr. John W. Clark, Jr., professor in both the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and the Department of Bioengineering at Rice University. The collection also includes records of Dr. Clark's participation in the work of several university committees, specifically Parking, Graduate Student, Admissions, and the Library. In addition there is material prepared for evaluation of courses to determine ABET accreditation in 2005.
The Bapsi Sidhwa papers comprise the books, drafts, notes, and personal papers of the acclaimed American-Pakistani author Bapsi Sidhwa. Known for her captivating novels exploring mainly women's issues in the Indian subcontinent, Bapsi has made her mark with her deeply insightful prose and outspoken voice.
This collection consists of research material created and collected by Mary Ann Pickens about Lynn R. Lowery.
This collection includes biographical sketches, legal documents, books, correspondence, and news clippings about individuals related to the Huffington, Coulbourn, Michel, Gough, Brown, Carrington families, and along with other collateral families. The bulk of the collection pertains to Phyllis Gough Huffington's research into collateral family lines and focuses from the mid-seventeenth century to the mid-twentieth century.
The collection consists of a single letter written by L. Ruth Wells Cahill, describing her journey from her hometown of Shreve, Ohio through Chicago south to Houston by train, and speculation about plans for the incipient "Rice Institute" once she arrived there.
This collection is made up of two boxes containing awards and certificates, event materials, correspondence, photographs, publications, and newsclippings from the Schepps/Brand family, spanning from 1910-1997.
This collection consists of two boxes containing Emanuel (Beaumont) programs, news clippings, photographs, certificates, a remembrance card, marriage contract (Ketubah), and legal documents, such as deeds and wills, ranging from 1834 to 1995.
Stella Sullivan was a Houston based artist and teacher, of the Midcentury Modernist genre. She worked with formats such as silkscreen prints, fabric art, watercolors, and more. Materials in this collection reflect the artist and teaching career of Stella Sullivan, including examples of her work, class notes, correspondence, and more.
The collection consists of four boxes containing family materials and synagogue/organization materials from Congregations Beth Israel, Emanu El and B'nail B'rith, including certificates, contracts, correspondence, school materials, reports, photographs, scrapbooks and memory books, and memorabilia spanning the years 1911 to 2015.
The collection includes background files, correspondence, field notes, and press documents collected by Vallee between 1960 and 2015.
Two boxes consisting of photographs, news clippings, school materials, certificates and diploma, programs/booklets, correspondence, speeches, and invitations, document part of the lives of members of the Chaskin / Hecht family from 1917 to 1995.
This collection contains an audio recording of Shabbat services at Congregation Beth Yeshurun in 1956 - Rabbi William Malev, Cantor George Wagner, and Harry Croft's Bar Mitzvah.
This collection consists of one box containing correspondence, meeting materials, photographs, news clippings, etc. pertaining to the history and operations of the Jewish Institute for Medical Research from 1959-2019.
The collection consists of one box containing correspondence; books; event materials, including dance programs and wedding invitations; bulletins; newsletters and news clippings; a photograph; and a VHS cassette featuring an interview with 104 year old Lorraine Isaacs Hofeller regarding the 1900 Galveston storm. Materials in the collection range from 1919 to 2002.
The John Bryant economics papers provide a sneak peek into the inner workings of the economics classroom at Rice University. Ranging from introductory classes to high-level graduate theory, Bryant's class notes cover a number of topics.
The collection, spanning from 1973 to 1987, consists of one folder containing correspondence, speeches, a newsclipping, a photograph, and an invitation.
This collection mainly contains Cal Dean Hill, Jr., Virginia Lee Smith, and their son Howard Hill documenting their time at Rice University.
This collection contains newspaper clippings, reports, and other items related to the LGBTQ community and/or the HIV/AIDS crisis.
These records consist of materials related to the administration of The Kinder Institute for Urban Research.
This collection contains digital media that charts the music career of Lew Andrew Mathews, as well as the life and career of Sharon Mathews.
The collection has a majority of photographs, newspaper articles, letters, and portraits.
This collection is made up of one box containing administrative records, books, correspondences, news clippings, photographs, and programs from Temple B'nai Israel donated by the Lack Family, spanning from 1877-2019.
The Isabella Gonzalez collection mainly consists of materials collected and created by Gonzalez during her time at Rice University. A large portion of the collection is photographs, contact sheets, and negatives.
This collection is made up of eight boxes containing books, bulletins, correspondence, event materials, financial records, flyers, newspaper clippings, pamphlets, photographs, plaques, programs, scrapbooks, videos, and yearbooks from United Orthodox Synagogues spanning from 1935 to 2023.
This collection includes annual reports (2001-2005), deans' strategic plans (2006-2007), external reviews (2008-2013) of the Departments of Political Science, Sociology, Economics, Anthropology, and Psychology, department records (1993-2007), and personnel files (restricted).
The collection consists mainly of programs for which Carl Cunningham wrote commentary. The materials are in good condition, and range in date from 1965 to 2017.
This collection consists of printed scans and photocopies of posters created by Little Bobby Duncan for the Houston music venue, Rockefeller's.
This collection consists of physical and digital material documenting the music career of Danny Everitt.
This collection consists of documents, posters and audio documenting the band Dogtooth Violet.
Collection of 10 16mm films, 1 Super 8mm film, 1 audio reel filmed by Dr. Zevi Salsburg in the 1950s-1970s. Films include family events, travel, and scenes at Rice University.
The collection consists of the scans of Mr. Hong's scrapbook, which includes 109 photos of community events. There are photos of Explorer Scouts at their air base, meetings of the American Legion, American-Chinese post no. 596, Houston Tx, VA dinners, American Legion trip to Washington, DC., Veteran's Day parade, City of Houston Proclamation Day, and the Asian American Pacific Islander Heritage Celebration.
The academic papers of Mark Kulstad contain hand-written notes from his graduate studies, hand-written comments on his drafts of published articles on Leibniz, Spinoza, Descartes and Locke, his published articles on Leibniz, Spinoza, and Descartes, his hand-written notes from History of Philosophy conferences, and student's hand-written evaluations of his work at Rice.
This collection documents not only the early years of the Rice Institute, but also the years the institute was in the planning stages and William Marsh Rice's involvement. The assets of the institute are also detailed.
The Alan Grob academic career records offer insight into the teaching and personal life of Rice University professor of English Alan Grob. Containing a large number of his lecture notes in addition to his writings, university related documents, and documents such as correspondence, photographs, and news articles, the collection helps preserve the memory of his impact at Rice.
This collection consists of slides taken by David Davidson '57, '58 during his time as a student at Rice Institute.
This collection consists of audio by Kathy Rote and an oral history with her.
A Congregation Beth Jacob new building dedication book and a 40th anniversary book document some of the history of the congregation from 1963 to 1971.
The collection contains documentation of the Livres d'artistes books acquired for the Fondren Library; information on the artists who created the books; administrative records; and information on presentations/class instruction made about the collection.
Angela Davis Broadside
This collection consists of photographs and ephemera collected by Eugene Mack Friedl while attending the Rice Institute.
This collection contains three interviews conducted by Anna Ta.
Physics course evaluations, grant funded research applications, experiment notes, related to the T.W. Bonner Lab at Rice University.
This collection mainly consists of the research materials for the "History of Biosciences" written by Kathleen Matthews.
This collection includes 32 sleeves of 4" x 5" black and white photographic negatives of buildings and interiors of the Rice University campus taken in the 1960's.
One folder containing news clippings, photographs, graduation program and invitation, a senior banquet program, an acceptance letter, and a summary of student expenses documents some of Hannah Rembert's time at Rice Institute from 1936 to 1938.
Photographs and supporting information from two Photography series 21 Little Buildings and Photographing Italy.
Judge Toni Ingversen was born in Manila, in the Philippines. Her family came to the U.S. in 1953; she grew up in Florissant, Missouri, receiving her bachelor's in political science from the University of Missouri at St. Louis in 1968 before moving to Houston, where she earned her doctor of jurisprudence from the University of Houston in 1973. This collection includes color photograph prints (approximately 120) of gala events during Judge Ingversen's presidency of the Asian American Heritage Association from 1993 - 1994.
This collection consists of programs, newsletters, and clippings. These items were collected by Eufemia Chua during her time serving in leadership roles with the Philippine Nurses Association of Metropolitan Houston (PNAMH). The items included are from the years 1980, 1988, and 1996.
The Skylander Newsletter Collection consists of the Skylander Newsletters created by Editor Don Bell for the members of the Ellington Field Air Force Base's 3605th Armament and Electronics Maintenance Squadron. The collection is a complete run from 1999 to 2016.
This collection is made up of two boxes containing photographs, news clippings, memorabilia, financial documents, and event programs from Star Furniture, and an oral history conducted with Shirley Wolff Toomim and Ellen Toomim Robinson spanning the years 1925-2021.
This collection contains a broadside distributed across the Republic of Mexico by the Mexican Congress in 1837, decreeing the abolition without exception of all slavery in all of the Republic.
The Gee Family Association (GFA) is an organization of generations of Gees and their extended families. This collection includes print materials such as event flyers and programs, genealogies, and circa 20 photographs, primarily regarding the activities of the Gee Family Association in Houston, Texas.
Records of Jack Rowland's military service in the Works Progress Administration, including formats such as newsclippings, correspondence, 1943 WPA Final Report in Texas, war ration card and other identification and induction cards. Houstonian Jack W. Rowland served as the Regional Director of the Works Project Administration from 1939-1943.
This collection consists of the audio research interviews and manuscript materials for the book, "Looks Like Rain: The Songwriting Legacy of Mickey Newbury" by Brian T. Atkinson.
This collection consists of four boxes containing books, media, and photographs documenting college history, student productions, and event from 1979 to 2008.
This collection contains correspondence and scrapbooks written and assembled by Manuel Paredes.
This collection consists of fliers, issues of Public News, and concert recordings on CD.
This collection contains Rice-related correspondence to Anne Marie Smith, photographs, ephemera, and a digitized poster.
The collection contains 4 t-shirts with the logo of the organization.
Correspondence recommending and rejecting David Barg for Officer Candidate School and some military records, including separation paperwork, document some of Captain Barg's time in the U.S. military between 1936 and 1946.
This collection includes a copy of the Senate bill which authorized his permanent residency in the U.S., clippings of news articles on Dr. Chan's work, a copy of an honorary degree from the University of Hong Kong, and publications of papers that he co-authored.
This collection includes sources which document Gee restaurants and/or events, the family of Jane and Albert Gee, and activities of the Chinese American Citizens Alliance (Houston Chapter). Formats include photos (circa 75), letters, plaques, awards, certificates, newspaper clippings, magazine clippings, brochures, pamphlets.
This collection is made up of two boxes containing correspondence, media, event materials, directories, and memorabilia that document part of Rabbi Jimmy Kessler's life from 1943 to 2019.
This collection contains audio, photographs, posters, and other materials related to the music career of Jimmy Don Smith.
Two boxes containing Texas Jewish Historical Society Newsletters, membership directories, and a brochure document some events and activities undertaken by the Texas Jewish Historical Society from 1999 to present.
One box of news clippings, correspondence, and event materials document some of the history of the Levy / Lipper / Cohn families from 1922 to 1961.
This collection consists of one box containing news clippings, membership cards, photographs, and biographical information documenting the lives of Martin and Naomi Warren from 1952-2010.
One folder of essays on Texas Jewry, a recording of Rabbi Stahl's ordination, and an oral history documents part of the life of Rabbi Samuel Stahl from 1967 to 2021.
This collection consists of two boxes containing news clippings, newsletters, programs, photographs, scrapbooks, video tapes, and yearbooks documenting the history of Congregation K'nesseth Israel in Baytown, Texas, from 1931-2019.
This collection is made up of one box containing administrative records, event materials, newsletters and news clippings, correspondence, and media from Jerry Wische's personal collection of Houston Jewish Community Center materials spanning from 1936-2021.
This collection includes memorabilia, photographs, crystal awards, correspondence, newsclippings, and other publications.
One box of programs, news clippings, event materials, and family history materials, including a digitized memoir and news clippings, document the Butler family between 1924 to 1987.
Three boxes of adminstrative and event materials, newsletters and news clippings, and general organizational materials document some of the activities of the National Council of Jewish Women - Greater Houston Section from 1989 to 2018.
Photographs used in the Houston Post and/or taken by Post photographers document activities within the Houston Jewish community between the 1950s and 1990s.
Three boxes of photographs, programs, flyers, correspondence, service packets, t-shirts, and newspaper clippings from Congregation Emanu El, Interfaith Charities, the Jewish-Herald Voice, West Houston B'nai B'rith, JCC West Houston, Greene Family Camp, and NFTY document some activities members of the Hertz family were involved in from from 1966-2011.
A Pleasantville brochure, a Jewish-Herald Voice Rosh Hashanah magazine, a B'nai B'rith Reflections Book, a photograph of Beth Jacob/Turnberry Circle, and Joske's and Weingarten employee pins document some activities that Terri Bamberger was involved in from 1951 to 2001.
The collection contains news clippings, certificates, photographs, media, and San Jacinto High School and University of Texas materials, including an El Oroso signed by Walter Cronkite, which document the lives of some of the Schuleman family from 1911 to 2018.
Hermann J. Muller (1890-1967) was educated at Columbia University and came to the Rice Institute in 1915 to teach biology. His tenure at Rice was brief and he later went on to teach at Columbia, the University of Texas in Dallas and Indiana University. In 1946, Muller won the Nobel Prize in Medicine and Physiology for his work with mutations and X-rays.
Joseph I. Davies (1896-1966) was an Englishman who became Julian Huxley's assistant and followed him to the Rice Institute in 1914. At Rice, Davies earned his undergraduate and graduate degrees in biology. Opposite of Huxley, Davies remained at Rice for his entire professional career. He served many years as Chairman of the Biology Department. In 1966, Davies died in the laboratory ten days from retirement.
Julian Huxley (1887-1975) was a prolific writer on numerous topics such as cancer research, religious philosophy, zoology and poetry and was best known as a popularizer of science. He was born in London, England and educated at Eton and Oxford University. Huxley taught biology at the Rice Institute from 1914 to 1916 when he went back to England to participate in the war effort. Huxley later taught at King's College at Oxford and from 1946 to 1948 he was the first Director-General of UNESCO (the United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization). In 1958, Huxley was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II.
George Carlos Wheeler (1897-1991) went to Texas Christian University in 1914 with the intention of becoming a high school language teacher. His long-time interest in biology, however, dominated his spare time and upon transferring to the Rice Institute in 1915, Wheeler began to enroll in biology classes. His first teacher and academic advisor was Julian Huxley, who strongly influenced Wheeler to become a professional biologist. When Wheeler completed his undergraduate work at the Rice Institute in 1918, he enlisted in the army and was sent to the Yale Army Laboratory School. After Armistice, he carried out his military service at Base Hospital in Camp Dodge, Iowa. In 1919, he started his graduate work in entomology at Harvard's Bussey Institute. After he received his Ph.D., Wheeler went on to teach at Syracuse University, the University of North Dakota and the Desert Research Institute (University of Nevada).
James Lockhart Autry, II was born in Holly Springs, Mississippi, on November 4, 1859. Educated in Mississippi schools for most of his life, Autry attended the University of the South on a scholarship before moving to Texas in 1876. He moved to Navarro County to undertake management of a ranch given to his grandfather's heirs for his part in the Texas Revolution.
Once established in Texas, Autry began the study of law in the offices of Judge Sam Frost in Corsicana, and was admitted to the bar in 1880 at the age of twenty-one. While still studying law in 1879, Autry served as enrolling clerk for the House of Representatives of the Texas Legislature and he served again in the sessions of 1880 and 1881. Autry began the practice of law in partnership with Richard Channing Beale; he retired from this partnership, however, to serve two terms as County Judge of Navarro County. He then formed a partnership with W. J. McKie which lasted until Autry left Corsicana to become General Attorney for the Texas Company in Beaumont.
The partnership of McKie and Autry served as counsel to J.S. Cullinan, an oil operator who moved into Corsicana with the oil boom of the area during the 1890's. After the dissipation of oil in the Corsicana area and the discovery of oil in the Spindletop - Beaumont area, Cullinan moved to the coastal town to form the Texas Fuel Company. For several years McKie and Autry continued to serve Cullinan, taking turns on leaving Coriscana to spend one or two weeks at a time in Beaumont. Finally in 1904 the partnership of McKie and Autry was dissolved with McKie staying in Corsicana and Autry moving to Beaumont as general counsel of the Texas Fuel Company.
A reorganization and expansion of the Texas Fuel Company in 1905 resulted in the incorporation of the Texas Company in which Autry was elected a director and became general attorney. The corporate headquarters were moved to Houston in 1908 when Spindletop began to decline and other fields down the Gulf Coast like Humble and Goose Creek began to produce. Autry again moved with the company. He remained with the Texas Company until November of 1913 when a dispute over management of the company became a major issue in a stockholders' meeting and a proxy struggle ensued. Cullinan with the open support of Autry and Will C. Hogg lost the battle and resigned as president and director. Autry and Hogg both resigned at this time.
Autry, Cullinan and Hogg then combined their capital and talents to form the Fidelity Trust Company, Farmers Petroleum Company, American Petroleum Company and Republic Production Company. Autry served as president of Farmers Petroleum Company, president of Fidelity Trust Company and vice-president and general counsel of the last two under the combined name of American Republics Company. In 1915 Autry suffered a stroke and he spent the last five years of his life a semi-invalid seeking rehabilitation and use of his right side. He died on September 29, 1920. He was survived by his wife, the former Allie Kinsloe, whom he married in 1896, a son James Lockhart Autry III, and a daughter Allie May Autry.
Allie Belle Kinsloe Autry was born in Corsicana, Texas in 1873. She married James Lockhart Autry II in 1896. Throughout her life she was active in philanthropic causes in Corsicana and Houston. In 1921 she donated money for the construction of a community house at Rice Institute. A memorial to her husband, Autry House served as social meeting place for students, faculty, and campus organizations at Rice Institute. She also donated $50,000 towards the establishment of a hospital school for children with tuberculosis, Autry Memorial Hospital School, as a memorial to her son, James Lockhart Autry III. She died in 1935.
James Lockhart Autry, III was born in Corsicana, Texas 1899. The only son of James Lockhart Autry II, he graduated from Rice Institute in 1921. After graduation he was the vice-president of the American Supply Company. He died after complications from appendicitis at the age of 23.
Allie May Autry Kelley was the second child of James L. Autry II and Allie Kinsloe Autry. She was born 1903 in Corsicana, Texas. She graduated from Rice Institute in 1925, the first woman in her family to attend college. As a student at Rice she was extremely popular, elected class vice president 1921-22 and 1924-25, queen of May Fete 1925 and was a lifelong supporter of her alma mater. She helped establish Autry Court, the Allie Kelley Dittmar lounge in the student center, and generously supported the Friends of the Fondren Library. She married Edward Watson Kelley in 1935 and had two children, Edward "Mike" Watson Kelley, Jr and Allie Autry Kelley Dittmar. She died in 1998 at the age of 94.
Col. Edward Watson Kelley was born June 12, 1896, in Newport, Rhode Island. He was a veteran of World War I and World War II. He was awarded a Purple Heart in World War I and remained in the army until 1936 when he retired with the rank of Major. He re-entered the army in 1941 and retired from service in 1944. He married Allie May Autry in 1930. He purchased the Kelley Manufacturing Co., a steel manufacturing plant in 1936. He was active in civic, church and business affairs in Houston. He died May 1, 1946. William Harrison Hamman, soldier, farmer, lawyer, and entrepreneur, was born at Woodstock, VA on January 17, 1830, the son of George and Catherine Schmucker Hamman. His father, a carpenter, died when William was ten years old, and William worked various numerous jobs to help support his family. He attended the University of Virginia in 1850 and 1851, studying mathematics, German and chemistry. He was commissioned a second lieutenant in the Virginia militia on April 13, 1850, and promoted to captain on November 8, 1856. In January 1858 he moved to Owensville in Robertson County, TX, and on September 21 was licensed to practice law there.
Through the 1850s he had been an ardent Unionist and strongly opposed Virginia's secession. On December 15, 1860, he was a leader in Robertson County calling for the immediate secession of Texas. With the outbreak of the Civil War, Hamman enlisted on July 15, 1861, as a private in the "Robertson Five Shooters", which soon became Company C, Fourth Texas Infantry of the famed Hood's Texas Brigade. Hamman was first elected to corporal and then, on October 16, 1861, to regimental color sergeant. He was appointed acting regimental commissary sergeant in July 1862 and served as regimental commissary officer from August 6, 1862, until the Confederate government in August 1863 abolished the position. That month he applied for a mission to return to Texas, and was dispatched as a messenger to the Trans-Mississippi Department. He remained in Texas and was appointed on December 25, 1863, aide-de-camp to the commander of the First Brigade, Second Division, Texas State Troops. On March 12, 1864, he was promoted to captain of the Texas State Troops and appointed adjutant general of the Fifth Brigade District. He rose to the rank of brigadier general on December 26, 1864.
Although his means were reduced by the war, in 1866 Hamman became the first oil prospector in Texas; he drilled his first oil well at Saratoga in Hardin County. Ironically, he owned options and leases at the Sour Lake and Spindletop oilfields, but did not drill on them. In August 1870 Hamman helped to incorporate three business enterprises - the Calvert Bridge Company, to build a safe and substantial bridge over the Brazos River at Calvert; the Pacific and Great Eastern Railway Company of Texas, to build a rail link between the Red River and the Rio Grande; and the Texas Timber and Prairie Railroad Company, to build a railroad between Beaumont and Bremond. In May of that year he also helped charter the Calvert and Belton Railroad. In 1871 Hamman moved to Calvert when the Houston and Texas Central Railroad reached town. There he established a successful legal practice. On July 26, 1871, he married Ella Virginia Laudermilk. The couple had five children.
In 1878 Hamman, theretofore a Democrat, became interested in monetary reform and ran as the Greenback party's candidate for governor, finishing second; he ran again in 1880 and finished third. In 1889 he became interested in the development of the coal and iron deposits at New Birmingham in Rusk County and helped organize the Cherokee Coal and Iron Company. Hamman died at New Birmingham on July 14, 1890, and was buried in the Owensville Cemetery, Calvert, Texas.
Excerpted from The New Handbook of Texas, 1996
William Lockhart Clayton was born in Tupelo, Mississippi on February 7th, 1880. In August 1902 he was married to Susan Vaughan. He was a co-founder of Anderson, Clayton and Company, based in Houston, Texas. In 1918 Clayton was a member of the Committee on Cotton Distribution with the War Industries Board. From 1940 to 1942 he was the Vice President of the Export-Import Bank.
His career in government service began in 1942 with his appointment as Assistant Secretary of Commerce, followed by appointments as Administrator of the Surplus War Property Administration (1944), Assistant Secretary of State (1944-1945), Undersecretary of State for Economic Affairs (1945-1947), and as head of the U.S. delegation at the United Nations Conference on Trade and Employment, which took place in Havana, Cuba, in 1947.
Clayton also served in the following capacities: Alternate Governor, World Bank (1946-1949), Vice President, Atlantic Union Committee (1949-1961), member on the National Security Training Commission (1951-1954), Chairman, National Committee on Campaign Contributions and Expenditures (1960), member on the Board of Governors of the Atlantic Institute (1960), and as co-Chairman of the U.S. Citizens Commission on NATO (1961).
In the 1950s Clayton authored a number of books primarily dealing with economics and their political ramifications. These included "We Must Trade Sovereignty For Freedom" (1950), "The Road To Peace" (1955), "What Price Oil?" (1958), and "We Are Losing The Cold War" (1958).
William L. Clayton died on February 9th, 1966, in Houston, Texas.
George Cranfield Berkeley (1753-1818) served in the British Navy from 1766 to 1812. In 1799 he was appointed Rear-Admiral and in 1805 he became a Vice-Admiral. In December 1808 he was appointed to the chief command on the coast of Portugal and in the Tagus, which he held until May 1812. On July 31, he was promoted to the rank of Admiral, and in acknowledgement of his services to Portugal was named Lord High Admiral of that kingdom. While on this assignment Berkeley's main duty was to command the supply ships and naval support of the Duke of Wellington in his Peninsular campaign against Napoleon Bonaparte. In May 1812 Berkeley returned to England and retired from public life.
The Irish poet Thomas Moore was born in Dublin on May 28, 1779. His earliest poetic compositions appeared in Anthologia Hibernica during the years 1792-1795. He briefly studied law in London, and other than a brief foray into parliamentary politics, the primary focuses of his life were poetry and the cultivation of aristocratic society. Irish Melodies is his most lasting claim to fame, and this work has been credited with both preserving and popularising the numerous ancient Irish airs which form its core.
Frank Curtis Michel was born June 5, 1934, in La Crosse, Wisconsin. He attended high school in Sacramento, California, and went on to receive a Bachelor of Science degree from California Institute of Technology in 1955, graduating with honors. After working briefly as an engineer, he served in the United States Air Force as a pilot from 1955 to 1958.
Michel then returned to California Institute of Technology, where he received a Ph.D. in physics in 1962. He continued as a Research Fellow in Physics at the Institute until April, 1963 when he accepted a position as assistant professor in the newly established Space Science Department at the Rice Institute (now Rice University) in Houston, Texas.
Michel's entry into the field of space physics proved timely, for a national effort was underway to accelerate scientific research programs needed in the nation's space endeavors. Two years earlier, President John F. Kennedy had enunciated a national goal to place a man on the moon before the end of the decade. Academic programs useful to the projected Apollo spaceflights were thus undergoing intense evaluation by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) together with the National Academy of Sciences and with other interested federal agencies, such as the National Science Foundation and the Department of Defense.
A Space Science Summer Study, conducted in 1962 and involving more than one hundred scientists from universities, private research organizations, industry, and the government recognized the potential for scientific investigation which could be carried out on manned missions of NASA's Apollo spacecraft. They proposed establishment of a program for training scientists as astronauts to participate in the Apollo flights and in later space programs.
The following year, specific recommendations for such a program were presented to Congress by the Space Science Board, an arm of the National Academy of Sciences which served as the main liaison between NASA and the American scientific community. The Board's Ad Hoc Committee on Scientific Qualifications of Scientist-Astronauts began work in May, 1964, to establish scientific criteria for applicants.
Michel's qualifications as a scientist who was also an experienced pilot made him a likely candidate for such a program, and he was attracted by the possibility of combining his expertise and special interest in solar winds with his desire to take part in space flight. His interest was shared by Dr. Alexander J. Dessler, director of Rice's Department of Space Science, who was an early supporter of the proposed Scientist-Astronaut program. Furthermore, Rice's Space Science Department had a close relationship with NASA's Manned Spacecraft Center near Houston (MSC, later Johnson Space Center). Departmental research projects, funded in part from NASA grants, were of direct benefit to NASA's programs, and MSC personnel were among those coming to Rice for graduate training.
Michael was thus in a fortunate position to take advantage of these new developments. When NASA officially established the Scientist-Astronaut program and began recruiting in October, 1964 Michel applied and was one of six accepted into the first group in June, 1965.
As a Scientist-Astronaut Michel spent six months in orientation training at MSC (he was already a qualified pilot and thus exempt from basic flight training). His work assignment was primarily to plan for the Apollo Applications Program (AAP, later known as the Skylab program). In September, 1966, Michel was appointed to monitor progress on the Apollo Telescope Mount project (ATM), which involved working with specialists at the Marshall Space Flight Center. At various periods he also served on working groups concerned with Lunar Atmospheres, Manned Space Science Atmospherics, and Planetary Atmospheres. In addition to these duties, Michel participated in ongoing astronaut training and in maintaining his flight proficiency as a potential flight crew member.
In 1967, NASA established a review procedure to ensure that the scientist-astronauts had time for study and research in order to maintain proficiency in their particular areas. Although officially one day a week and one week a month were to be set aside for this purpose, it proved difficult in some cases to achieve this. Over a period of time Michel was among those concerned about being able to meet requirements as an astronaut along with those of a scientist.
When it became apparent in 1967 that budget problems (caused in part by the war in Vietnam) would decrease the number of Apollo flights and thus the possibility for assignment to one of the flight crews, Michel requested and was granted a year's leave of absence to return to Rice in the fall of 1968 to teach and to pursue research. Michel resigned from NASA in August, 1969, when opportunities for space flight continued to appear unlikely and the time commitment for academic interests made remaining in the space program difficult.
If I am to be remembered, I hope it will not be primarily for my specialized scientific work, but as a generalist; one to whom, enlarging Terence's words, nothing human and nothing in external nature was alien. Julian S. Huxley, Memories
Julian Sorell Huxley, the grandson of Thomas Henry Huxley and great-nephew of Matthew Arnold, was born June 22, 1887. The union of the Huxley and Arnold families brought about a happy combination of what Julian's younger brother Aldous would call blue genes, but the combined family traditions also imposed an obligation of intellectual excellence and social responsibility. This obligation was keenly felt by Julian Huxley from an early age. It was enhanced by his affinity for the interests which had earned his grandfather his place in the history of science, and thus, it soon became apparent that young Julian would be Thomas Huxley's intellectual heir as well as his grandson. This inheritance would prove both a joy and a burden, for while Julian Huxley achieved great renown as a scientist and popularizer of science, he was plagued, like his grandfather, by serious and debilitating attacks of depression. In spite of this he was able, throughout a long career, to contribute significantly to the fields of ethology, ecology and cancer research, and to act effectively as a powerful proponent of neo-Darwinism.
He was educated at Eton and Oxford, where he followed his own inclinations and his grandfather's example by studying Natural Science. His scientific interests were combined with literary talents which were officially recognized in 1908, when he was awarded the Newdigate Prize for English Verse at Oxford, an honor which he remembered with pride even after a lifetime of honors and accomplishments. (It is note-worthy and characteristic that he spent his prize money on a microscope.)
After completing his schooling, he began his career at the institution which had taught him: in 1910, he became a lecturer in Zoology at Oxford. Two years later, however, he departed from the course traditional to a young man of his academic interests and social background. He left England and Oxford to accept a position as Research Associate at the newly established Rice Institute in Houston, Texas, and by 1913 he had become Assistant Professor of Biology there. He remained in Houston until 1916 when he returned to Europe to take part in World War I.
After serving as an army intelligence officer in Italy, he came home to marry and to take up a position as Senior Demonstrator in Zoology at Oxford. From 1919 to 1925 he remained at Oxford, carrying out his famous axolotl experiments and participating in the university's expedition to Spitsbergen. In 1925 he became Professor of Zoology at King's College, University of London. But he did not remain long in that position. The following year he made a decision which, like his decision to teach at the Rice Institute, would move him away from the path followed by most of his fellow scientists. He accepted the invitation of H.G. Wells to collaborate on what would become The Science of Life, and in 1927 resigned his position at King's College. This meant a new direction for his career, for although he was Fullerian Professor of Physiology in the Royal Institution from 1927 to 1929, after that he held no academic position. For ten years he was a private person working to advance his ideas about the biological sciences not as a researcher nor as a teacher, but as a writer on scientific developments and their relationship to contemporary social issues.
In 1935 he accepted the position of Secretary of the Zoological Society of London. In this capacity he had the means to encourage solid research on animal behavior while introducing innovative methods for implementing his vision of the zoo as an educational institution. Unfortunately his leadership aroused the displeasure of some members of the Society, and in 1942 he resigned under pressure. He continued, however, his work as a writer and lecturer and was known throughout war-time Britain for his participation as a panel member of the BBC Brains Trust program.
The end of the war brought an opportunity for him to put many of his cherished ideals and projects into practice. True to family tradition, he had always viewed science, art and literature as part of a great whole. Thus when he became a member of the commission formed to plan what would become Unesco, he ensured that science would be an integral part of the educational and cultural institution. When in 1946 he became Unesco's first Director-General, he set out a program cosmopolitan in vision, one concerned with mankind in relationship with nature and with its past, one in which art and science were equally valued. He even went so far as to advocate his own solution to the troubling questions of modern society, his religion of scientific humanism, as an official basis for Unesco's philosophy. This he himself came later to find unwise. During his tenure as Director-General he also began to articulate fully the concerns which would occupy the later years of his life: the relation of overpopulation to poverty and ignorance, the necessity for the conservation of wilderness and wildlife, and the importance of the renunciation of parochial views on religion and politics. Finally, he came to stress even more strongly than before his optimistic belief that mankind can and should take control of its own environmental and biological destiny.
In 1948 his term of office with Unesco came to an end and Huxley was once again a private citizen. The remainder of his life was spent traveling, lecturing and writing in support of the causes to which he was devoted: evolutionary theory and its significance for potential human development, ecology and the preservation of wildlife and population control. He was honored often for his contributions to science and to society, receiving prizes and awards for his efforts in helping the general public to better understand contemporary scientific thought. In 1958 he received a knighthood. In 1965, in a culmination of work he began in his youth with his field studies of the behavior of the great crested grebe, he organized a Royal Society Symposium on the Ritualization of Behavior in Animals and Man, and in 1970 he received the International Union for the Conservation of Nature Gold Medal for outstanding contributions to scientific research related to conservation.
On February 14, 1975, at the age of 87, Sir Julian Huxley died. His life had been long, beginning in the Victorian era and ending in a world which his grandfather could scarcely have imagined. He served many of the causes with which the 20th century will no doubt become identified, and his influence on the development of contemporary biological science was considerable. Through his field studies of animal behavior and his synthetic approach to Darwinian evolutionary theory and Mendelian genetics, he helped determine the direction of modern biology. As an educator his influence was incalculable, for he taught not only such men as E.B. Ford and A.C. Hardy, but through his writings, perhaps millions of men and women as well. He was, moreover, known for his encouragement of aspiring scientists and scholars. In his catholic interests, in his belief in the interrelationship of science and arts, he extended his influence beyond the laboratory of the classroom and reached artists, writers, musicians, politicians and finally the general public. Such interests and such influence indicate that his desire to be known as one to whom nothing human and nothing in external nature was alien was fulfilled.
Walter Gardner Hall was born in Houston, Texas on May 30, 1907. His parents, Samuel Emery and Emma Belle Gardner Hall, moved from Illinois to the Texas Gulf Coast in 1898. His family farmed and ran a cafe before his father went to work as a mechanic for the Houston Streetcar Company and later the Interurban Company. In about 1913, Hall and his family moved to League City, only to return to Houston in 1915. In 1919 the Halls moved once again to League City and acquired a ten-acre farm, while Samuel Hall continued to work for the Interurban Company.
Hall enrolled in Rice Institute in 1924 as, he once said, "the greenest freshman that ever entered." When reflecting on his life, Hall has always pointed to his experiences at Rice and his association with such professors as Radoslav A. Tsanoff as vital components of whatever political and economic success he might have had in his life. After his graduation in 1928, Hall went to work for the Texas Company as cashier at a clay mine in Fayette County. Two years later, Hall was transferred to Houston. In January of 1931, in the midst of an ever-worsening depression, Hall resigned from the Texas Company because he believed that the company's management had treated unfairly a friend and fellow employee. He accepted the position of cashier of the Citizens State Bank of League City (a job he had earlier refused) and by 1935 had convinced the owners of the bank to move to Dickinson. In 1943, Hall and his wife, Helen Lewis, whom he had married in 1927, bought controlling interest in the Citizens State Bank of Dickinson. Later, as the Halls and their community prospered, they took over the Alvin State Bank, the Leaque City State Bank, and the Webster State Bank. They also invested in real estate, established several insurance agencies, and acquired controlling interest in Sentinel National Life Insurance Company.
Beginning in the late 1930's, Walter Hall took an increasing interest in politics. He supported President Franklin D. Roosevelt fervently at a time when many Texas Democrats were becoming increasingly estranged from the President. In the mid 1940's, Hall emerged as a leader of the Liberal Democrats in Texas. He helped Lyndon B. Johnson win the crucial Senate election of 1948 and later aided in the election of Senator Ralph W. Yarborough. At the historic 1968 Democratic convention in Chicago, he was a strong supporter of Hubert Humphrey. Although his candidates often lost closely contested elections, Hall continued to support the Democratic Party, particularly the liberal wing of the party, throughout the 1950's, 60's and 70's. Hall died March 12, 2000.
William Ward Watkin was born in Boston, Massachusetts, on January 21, 1886. His parents were Fred W. Watkin and Mary Hancock Watkin. Watkin grew up in Pennsylvania, the home state of his mother's family. He graduated from Danville High School in 1903 and entered the University of Pennsylvania, pursuing the study of architecture under Paul Phillipe Cret. Following his graduation in 1908, Watkin spent one year traveling in Europe, principally in England.
Upon his return from Europe, Watkin joined the Boston office of Cram, Goodhue and Ferguson, then one of the most prominent architectural firms in the United States. At the time of Watkin's employment, 1909, Cram, Goodhue and Ferguson had received the commission to produce a campus plan and to design the initial buildings of the Rice Institute in Houston, Texas. Watkin worked on the development of both the campus plan and the building plan in the office; when construction was to begin, in the summer of 1910, Watkin was sent to Houston to serve as Cram, Goodhue and Ferguson's representative supervisor. In this capacity Watkin not only oversaw the construction of the initial Institute group--the Administration Building, the Mechanical laboratory and Powerhouse, and the North and South residence halls - but most of the Institute's subsequent development: the Physics laboratory (1913-1915), east Hall (1913-1914), West Hall (1915-1916), three proposed President's houses (1913, 1915, 1923-1924), the Field House (1920), the Chemistry Laboratory (1923-1925), a proposed Alumni Hall (1927), two proposed libraries (1927, 1940-1941), and the Founder's Statue (1927-1930). Watkin himself was to design the Faculty Club - Cohen House (1927), Rice Stadium (1938), and the Naval ROTC building (1941). He also served as consulting architect to Staub and Rather in the design and construction of the Fondren Library (1946-1949), M.D. Anderson Hall (1946-1947), and the Abercrombie Laboratory (1947-1948).
As supervising architect, Watkin worked closely with Dr. Edgar Odell Lovett, president of the Rice Institute. Lovett offered Watkin a faculty appointment and the Institute opened in the fall of 1912 with Watkin as instructor in architectural engineering. In the summer of 1916 he was made an assistant professor and in 1922 he became a full professor. In 1914 the architecture faculty expanded to two, and to three in 1915. Rice awarded the first professional degrees in architecture in 1917. Watkin's efforts to provide his students with a thorough course in architectural studies led him to organize a traveling fellowship in 1928. Watkin's academic duties were not restricted to the Architecture department. He was also Curator of Grounds, Chairman of the Faculty Committee on Buildings and Grounds, and Chairman of the Faculty Committee on Outdoor Sports, a position which resulted in his serving a term as president of the Southwest Conference in 1920. At the time of his sabbatical in the 1928-1929 academic year, Watkin resigned the athletic committee post. He remained, however, head of Buildings and Grounds, as his resignation of this post was not accepted by Dr. Lovett. During World War II, Watkin chaired the Committee on Air Raid protection and Civilian defense.
As early as 1912 Watkin was accepting independent architectural commissions. Between 1913 and 1915 he entered into partnership with George Endress of Austin, practicing under the name Endress and Watkin. This firm was dissolved at the end of 1919 and Watkin thereafter practiced under his own name. Also in 1919 Watkin ceased his affiliation with Cram, Goodhue and Ferguson, though he continued to operate, on a commission basis, as supervisor for their Texas projects. In addition to practicing architecture, Watkin consulted on projects, and in 1933 he was appointed to the Board of Architectural Consultants, an advisory group connected with the design of the Federal Triangle in Washington, D.C.
During the teens and twenties, Watkin wrote articles for journals, primarily dealing with Houston, its growth and development, and the implications these held for the city's architecture. Watkin contributed descriptive pieces on the Rice Institute to Progressive Houston and the Southern Architectural Review, Houston's short-lived architectural magazine. Not until the late twenties did he become more involved in research and writing. In 1930 the Rice Institute Pamphlet published a series of lectures Watkin had given on the new architecture in Europe; Pencil Points reprinted these in 1931. Watkin wrote two additional essays for Pencil Points one published in 1931 on new directions in ecclesiastical architecture, and another in 1932. This former essay was something of a prolegomena to Watkin's first book, "The Church of Tomorrow" published in 1936. In 1951 Watkin's second book, "Planning and Building the Modern Church," was published. At the time of his death he was planning to write a book on architecture in Texas.
Watkin had numerous academic and professional associations. He was a member of the Houston Philosophical Society, the Texas Philosophical Society and the Houston Country Club. Watkin was a charter member of the Rice Institute Faculty Club. He had become a member of the American Institute of Architects in 1913, and was elected to the College of Fellows in 1949. Watkin was a communicant of Trinity Church.
William Ward Watkin died on June 24, 1952 from complications following surgery for a broken kneecap. He was survived by his wife, Josephine Cockrell Watkin, whom he had married in 1933. Watkin had previously been married to Annie Ray Townsend Watkin, who died in 1929. Their three children were Annie Ray Watkin Biehl Hoagland, Rosemary Watkin Barrick, and William Ward Watkin, Jr.
Excerpted from Stephen Fox's 1976 unpublished "Guide to the Papers of William Ward Watkin in the Woodson Research Center of the Rice University."
The Osterhout Family Collection begins with John Patterson Osterhout (1826-1903). John was born in Pennsylvania and completed his education as a lawyer while carrying out a teaching career in that state. In 1851, John moved to Bellville, Texas in Austin County. At first, he continued to be a teacher but, in the years up until his death, John held a number of different positions - lawyer, collecting agent, newspaper editor and owner, officer in the Confederate Army, railroad company president, judge, postmaster, rancher and a store owner. As well as these varied occupations, John was prominent in the Baptist church and Masonic communities and, later in his life, he was involved in state politics. In 1859(?), he made a brief return to Pennsylvania to marry Junia Roberts.
Junia (Roberts) Osterhout was born in Pennsylvania where she met and married John and came back to Texas with him in 1859(?). She was the mother of six children - Paul, Gertrude, John Jeremiah, Ora, Junia and another child that died in infancy - and helped raise them in Bellville and Belton, Texas. Junia died in 1897.
Paul Osterhout (1859-1944), the first child, was born and raised in Bellville and Belton, Texas. He graduated from Baylor College in Texas and Jefferson Medical College in Pennsylvania. After holding several odd jobs following graduation, Paul moved to Central America in 1888 where he began his professional career. He and his wife, May, lived in Nicaragua, Colombia and Panama where Paul tried his hand variously as a doctor, pharmacist, banana and rubber plantation owner and political consul. In the later stages of his career, Paul and May moved back to Texas and resided in San Antonio.
As for the rest of the family, Gertrude Osterhout, the second child, went to Baylor Female College where she had much success academically. She later went on to become a faculty member at Baylor University. John Jeremiah, who went by the name Jeremiah or Jere, moved to Central America to look for work and lived with his brother Paul. He later held a job as a postal clerk on the Santa Fe railroad. Ora Osterhout attended Baylor University and later married into the Wade Family. It is from Ora that this collection came to Rice University. The youngest Osterhout, Junia, had a career as a school teacher.
Salomon Chaim Bochner, a mathematician, historian, and teacher of international fame, was born on 20 August 1899 in the small town of Podgorzu, Austria-Hungary, now in Poland. His early schooling included grammar school and attendance at the Academia w Krakowie. Reputedly, he had already mastered the calculus by age 13, and completed his first original research in his fifteenth year. In 1915 he moved to Berlin to attend the Konigstadtisch Oberrealschule until he was conscripted into the Austro-Hungarian army in May 1917.
In the army Bochner received medical training at a military school near Vienna, and eventually obtained the rank of corporal in the medical corps. He was stationed at Feldpost # 3, a military hospital, until November of 1918. Soon thereafter he matriculated at the University of Berlin where he studied mathematics for three years. He received the D. Phil. on 8 April 1921, his examiners being Max Planck, Ehrhardt Schmidt, Issai Schur and Alois Riehl.
Directly after receiving his degree, Bochner was employed as a volunteer in the Cuten and Syman Banking House in Berlin, but left at the end of the year to "do other things." Exactly what he did for most of the next three years is unknown. In 1925, however, he was awarded an International Education Board Fellowship, which brought him to Copenhagen to study with Harald Bohr and to Oxford and Cambridge to work with G.H. Hardy and J.E. Littlewood. In 1927 Bochner accepted a position as a Lecturer in the Mathematics Department of the University of Munich. His colleagues there included several well-known mathematicians, among them C. Caratheodory, O. Perron, H. Tietre, and H. Hartogs.
Bochner made his debut as a young scholar in the 1920s in an incident involving the Danish mathematician, Harald Bohr, the brother of the well-known physicist, Niels Bohr. Inspired on the one hand by the analytic number theory of Bernhard Riemann and on the other by the celestial mechanics of Lagrange and the later astronomers, Bohl and Esclangon, Bohr had developed a general theory of a phenomenon which he named "almost periodicity" and which was described in brief announcements published in 1923. On reading such exciting news, Bochner lacked the patience to wait for the publication of the detailed proofs and simply worked it out himself. Upon learning of the young man's work a month later, Bohr invited Bochner to visit him in Copenhagen. They soon discovered that Bochner had achieved Bohr's result by means of a highly original and parallel approach, entirely different from that of Bohr. Moreover, the Bochner approach was the one that would stand the test of time, being the basis for future generalizations of Bohr's theory.
Notoriety at such an early age led Bochner onto his life-long study of harmonic analysis, starting in 1932 with the now classical treatise, "Lectures on the Fourier Integral." This work laid out the seeds of what was later to be called the theory of distributions and set forth his most famous theorem, actually known as the "Bochner Theorem." In the later development of abstract Fourier analysis, the Bochner theorem became the cornerstone of the theory of distributions.
As a Jew, Bochner evidently decided that the growing tide of Nazism in Germany left him with no other choice than to seek a new life elsewhere. Accordingly, after a six-month stay in Cambridge, England, he joined the Princeton University faculty in 1933, and served as an assistant, associate, and full professor of mathematics until 1968. During that period Bochner held other professional positions. He was a temporary member of the Institute for Advanced Study of Princeton University. He spent one year as a visiting professor at Harvard University and another at the University of California, Berkeley. He was a consultant at the Los Alamos Project and for the Air Research and Development Command. In 1968 Bochner retired from Princeton University and accepted Rice University's offer of the Edgar Odell Lovett Chair in Mathematics. He subsequently became the chairman of the Mathematics Department.
Although Bochner was most devoted to his work and study, he nonetheless led a very active personal life that involved much correspondence and travel. In November 1937 he married Naomi Weinberg of Brooklyn, New York. They went on a three-month honeymoon trip the following year to Holland, France, and Great Britain. One daughter, Deborah, was born to them. His father, Joseph Bochner, became ill in 1935 and died soon thereafter. Upon his father's death, his mother, Ruda Bochner, moved to London to live with his sister, Fannie Rabinowicz. He maintained close ties with his family throughout his life.
During those early years at Princeton, Bochner was extremely preoccupied with pure mathematical theory and proved to be a provocative and prolific writer. His research was original and pioneering. He was a forerunner in the theory of the so-called Schwartz distributions in that he introduced generalized Fourier transforms for functions that do not grow faster at infinity than a power of "x." Also, he was the first to introduce, in 1936, the much-studied process of spherical summability of multiple Fourier series; and by a nonobvious construction, he showed that Riemann's classical localization property in one dimension does not have the "expected" analog in two dimensions.
In the field of several complex variables, Bochner's achievements were very significant and spanned a broad horizon, especially in their interaction with other areas of mathematics. In 1938 he proved that the envelope of holomorphy of a tube is again a tube, the basis of the envelope tube being the convex closure of the basis of the original tube. In 1943 he used the "Bochner-Martinelli kernel" to prove Hartog's key theorem that, for a bounded domain with a connected boundary, a holomorphic function on the boundary has a continuation into the entire interior of the domain. The "Bochner-Montgomery Theorem," published in 1946, maintains that, on a compact complex manifold, the Lie group of holomorphic automorphism is a complex Lie group. Bochner created, for real and complex manifolds, the topic of "curvature and Betti numbers," a title under which he published a book with Kentaro Yano in 1953. Finally, the crowning honor in this field came in 1967 with the fifth printing of "Several Complex Variables," originally published in 1947.
In probability theory, Bochner constructed, analyzed, and introduced in 1946 the Fourier transform of a rather general type of stochastic process, randomizing not point functions, but additive set functions, and obtaining not only differential space but other homogeneous processes. In this area of study Bochner's "Harmonic Analysis and the Theory of Probability" became a standard work. Finally, a belated honor arrived in 1977, when it became generally known that Zorn's lemma of 1933 had been fully published and applied by Bochner in 1926.
In the period from 1950 to 1965, Bochner published at least eighty mathematical articles, most being elaborations of the enormous body of his earlier ideas. Afterwards, however, he turned almost exclusively to the history and philosophy of science. In his later years, Bochner wrote books and articles on the role of the concepts of space, infinity, real numbers, functions, and continuity in major junctures and upheavals in the rise of Western mathematics, such as the decline of Greek mathematics in its own phase, the sudden emergence of analysis in the late Renaissance, and a subtle but very tangible change of style in mathematics in the transition from the eighteenth to the nineteenth century. His "The Role of Mathematics in the Rise of Science," perhaps his most famous book, was published in 1966 and soon thereafter translated into many languages. Indeed, a very large proportion of the working papers in this collection deal with the history of science.
Salomon Bochner died in Houston, Texas on 2 May 1982, eleven years after the death of his beloved wife, Naomi. His life began at the turn of the century and his work influenced and sowed seeds of ideas in his students and colleagues that will continue to be important long after his death and beyond the turn of the next century.
1899: Born on 20 August in Podgorzu, Kracow, Austria-Hungary. 1906: Began Grammar School, Kracow. 1913: Graduated from Grammar School. Entered the Academia Handlowa w Krakowie, Kracow. 1914: Graduated from the Akademia Handlowa w Krakowie on 10 December. 1915: In February began to attend the Konigstadtische Oberrealschule in Berlin, Prussia. 1917: Left the Konigstadtisch Oberrealschule on 25 April. Entered the Austro-Hungarian army in May. On June 11 began to attend a school for medical training near Vienna, Austria-Hungary, eventually obtaining the rank of corporal in the medical corps. 1918: Left Feldpost # 3, a military hospital, on 14 March to travel to Berlin on a leave of absence valid until 12 October. Discharged honorably from the Austro-Hungarian army in November. Matriculated at the University of Berlin. 1921: Received D. Phil. degree from the University of Berlin on 8 April. Joined the German Mathematical Society. 1922: On April 1 began employment as a volunteer in the Cuten and Syman Banking House in Berlin. On 31 December left Cuten and Syman to do other things. 1925: Became International Education Board Fellow and studied with Harald Bohr in Copenhagen and with G.H. Hardy and J. E. Littlewood at Oxford and Cambridge. 1927: Accepted position as a Lecturer, University of Munich. 1933: Joined the American Mathematical Society. Became an Associate at Princeton University in October. 1934: Spent three months in Great Britain, from July to September, securing an immigration visa to the United States. Promoted to Assistant Professor, Princeton University. 1935: Visited Germany for two months, from July to September, to pay his respects to his father, who was incurably ill. 1936: Visited mother in Great Britain for three months, from July to September. 1937: Married Naomi Weinberg in November. 1938: Made three-month honeymoon trip in July to Holland, France, and Great Britain. 1939: Promoted to Associate Professor, Princeton University. 1945: Gained membership in the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton University. 1946: Promoted to Professor, Princeton University. Served as a Visiting Lecturer, Harvard University. 1950: Elected to the National Academy of Sciences. 1951: Served as a Consultant, Los Alamos Project, Princeton University. 1952: Served as a Consultant for the Air Research and Development Command. Worked as a Visiting Professor, University of California, Berkeley. 1957: Elected Vice President of the American Mathematical Society. 1958: Chosen as a Delegate to the International Congress of Mathematicians. 1959: Awarded Henry Burchard Fine Chair of Mathematics, Princeton University. 1968: Retired from Princeton in June with the title of Professor Emeritus. In September accepted the Edgar Odell Lovett Chair in Mathematics, Rice University. 1969: Honored with Symposium in Honor of Salomon Bochner, Princeton University. Made Chairman of Mathematics Department of Rice University in May. 1971: Delivered the Keynote Speech, American Association for the Advancement of Science Symposium: The Role of Mathematics in the Development of Science. Naomi died of a ruptured esophagus in Santa Monica, California on 4 April. 1973: Served as an editor of the Dictionary of the History of Ideas. 1979: Awarded the Leroy P. Steele Prize of the American Mathematical Society on 25 January. 1982: Salomon Bochner died in Houston, Texas, on 2 May.
Charles William Goyen, author, editor, and teacher, was born in Trinity, Texas, on April 24, 1915 and moved with his family to Houston at the age of eight. He received B.A. and M.A. degrees from Rice University (then Institute) in 1937 and 1939, respectively. After teaching for one year at the University of Houston, he left to serve in the U.S. Navy during World War II. Returning after five years, he left Houston to pursue his work as a writer, residing at various times in New Mexico, Europe, New York, and California. His East Texas origins, however, were to have an enduring influence on the speech patterns and cultural characteristics reflected in his writings.
His first novel, House of Breath, was published to critical acclaim in 1950. Subsequent publications included the novels In a Farther Country (1955), The Fair Sister (1963), and Come the Restorer (1974); Selected Writings (1974); short story collections Ghost and Flesh (1952), The Faces of Blood Kindred (1960) and The Collected Stories (1975); the non-fiction A Book of Jesus (1973); and plays The House of Breath (1956), The Diamond Rattler (1960), Christy (1964), House of Breath Black/White (1971), and Aimee (1973). He also created lyrics for the film Left-Handed Gun (1958) and served as translator for The Lazy Ones by Egyptian author Albert Cossery.
In addition to being a writer, he was instructor of English at the New School for Social Research in New York City, 1955-60; Associate in English at Columbia University, 1964-66; senior editor in the trade department at McGraw Hill, 1966-71; and visiting Professor of English at Brown University, 1973. He married the actress Doris Roberts in 1963.
Among awards he received were music awards for words and music from the American Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers (A.S.C.A.P.) in 1964, 1965, 1968, 1970, and 1971; an award from the Texas Institute of Arts and Letters, 1950; and the Distinguished Alumnus Award from Rice University in 1977. He was a Guggenheim fellow in 1950 and 1952 and a Ford Foundation grantee in 1963-64. He died in Los Angeles of leukemia in August 1983, two months before his novel Arcadio was published. Since then a number of his other late works have been edited and published.
William Wilkinson Green was born in England January 28, 1839, and moved to the United States with his parents, who settled in Michigan. During the Civil War (1861-1865) he enlisted in the Union Army (5th Michigan Infantry Regiment) and served for three years until the end of the war. He married Cyntha Venette Horton [sic] February 19, 1867 and moved to Kansas, settling there on a farm near Oxford in Sumner County. They had seven children, three sons and four daughters. The date of Green's death is uncertain, but he is believed to have died in 1902.
Three Dillingham brothers "came to Salem with Winthrop in 1630" from Leicestershire in England. A member of the fourth generation, Paul Dillingham (1799-1891) lived in Waterbury, Vermont where he was a member of the State Bar, president of the bank, and later governor of the state. He had four sons and a daughter by his wife Julia Carpenter Dillingham.
One of their sons, Edwin (1839-1864), a captain in the Union Army, was killed at the battle of Winchester. Another son, William Paul, became a U. S. Senator. He served as chairman of the Committee on Immigration for several years and was an influential member of Congress. A third son, Frank (1848-?), moved to Texas where he was in the railroad business.
After serving as a colonel in the Union Army, Charles Dillingham moved to New Orleans where he stayed until 1885. At that time he moved to Houston as receiver of Houston and Texas Central Railway. When the South Texas National Bank was formed, he became first vice-president and later was promoted to president, then chairman of the board. In 1863 Charles married Frances M. Cutter of Cleveland, Ohio, and they had two children, a son Edwin Kirke, and a daughter Mary Pauline.
Pauline, or "Pucky" as her friends and family often called her, remained unmarried and devoted most of her time to her brother's family. She also wrote both poetry and fiction and had several pieces published. In poor health much of her life, Pauline usually spent summers at a family home in Camden, Maine escaping the stifling Houston weather. The rest of the year she lived with Edwin and his family in Houston and occasionally took trips abroad. In 1959, she and her brother donated their stately family home on Austin Street to the Child Guidance Council.
Pauline's brother, Edwin K. Dillingham, married Charlotte (Lottie) Porter, and they had two children, Elizabeth Randon and Charles. Elizabeth went to School in the east and married James Hart of New York City where the couple lived. Charles went to Yale and married Barbara Kibler with whom he had a son, Charles.
Albert Thomas was the first Rice Alumnus to serve in Congress. Thomas was born in Nacogdoches, Texas, on April 12, 1898. As a child, he attended Public Schools in Nacogdoches and worked in his father's store. During World War I, Thomas served as a second lieutenant in the army. He graduated from Rice Institute in 1920 and from University of Texas law school in 1926. Thomas was married to Lera Millard in 1922. He was elected county attorney in Nacogdoches in 1927, and served there until 1930, when he moved to Houston to become assistant United States district attorney for the southern district of Texas. Thomas was elected to represent the Eighth District of Texas (Harris County) in the U.S. House of Representatives in 1936, a position he held until his death. Thomas served on numerous committees and was instrumental in locating the NASA Manned Spacecraft Center in Houston. He became chairman of the House Subcommittee on Independent Office Appropriations in 1949, chairman of the Texas House delegation in 1950, and chairman of the House Democratic caucus in 1964. Thomas died while in office in 1966 after a long illness.
Walter W. Fondren was born in 1877 in Tennessee, the son of a farmer, who moved the family to Arkansas in 1883. Orphaned at the age of nine or ten, W. W. Fondren began working on farms in Arkansas and Texas. Then in 1897 he worked as a helper on a drilling rig at Corsicana, Texas, developing rapidly and becoming an independent driller during the first decade of this century. While he was working at Corsicana, he met and married Ella F. Cochrum.
Born at Hazel, Kentucky, Ella Cochrum was in her mid teens when her father died, making it necessary for her to quit school to care for her sister and five brothers. She and Walter Fondren were married on Valentine's Day, 1904 in Corsicana, and soon thereafter moved to Houston, where a son and two daughters were born to them and where they lived for the remainder of their lives.
Mr. Fondren was elected a director of the Humble Oil Company, then controlled mostly by Ross. S. Sterling, in 1912. In 1917 the Humble Oil and Refining Company was formed, and Walter Fondren was elected vice president. He assumed responsibility for drilling on the Gulf coast when Humble was affiliated with Jersey Standard in 1919. When W. S. Farish was elected Jersey director (1933), while retaining the Humble presidency, W. W. Fondren retired. After several years of heart trouble, he died suddenly early in 1939.
The Fondren's interest in aiding worthy institutions led to the establishment of the Fondren Foundation in 1948 to manage the resources of an estate valued at over thirty-three million dollars at the time of Mr. Fondren's death. Prominent among the recipients of this generosity have been St. Paul's Methodist Church, Methodist Hospital, Methodist Homes for Older People and the YMCA, all in Houston and Southern Methodist University in Dallas. Mrs. Fondren's concern with health care and the training of nurses led her to charter the Texas Association of Hospital Auxiliaries in 1943. Over the years she also provided money for scholarships and awards for nursing students. At the time of her death in 1982, Ella F. Fondren had devoted much of this century to local philanthropy.
Harris Masterson, Jr., born June 22, 1881, Brazoria, TX, was the son of Judge Harris Masterson and Sallie Stewart Turner. A graduate of the University of the South in Sewanee, TN (1904) and the Episcopal Theological School of Cambridge [Harvard] (1907), Masterson began his career as chaplain of All Saint's, Austin, TX, 1908-11. He worked with the YMCA in China (Hankow and Wuchang, 1911-16) and the US (1916-17), and became a Red Cross chaplain in 1918. He came to Houston in 1919 to become the organizer, director and chaplain of a community house for Rice Institute students, later known as Autry House. Masterson was active in civic and educational affairs and served in various positions including chairman of the Building Committee of the Houston Public Library Board and as a Trustee for the University of the South. In 1925 he married Elizabeth Simpkins who shared his work with Rice students. The Mastersons moved to France to work with American students in Paris and returned to Austin, TX in 1926 for Masterson to become Rector of All Saint's Chapel. He resigned in Oct. 1935 and died in Austin in Nov. 1935.
Norman Hurd Ricker (1896-1980) was raised in Galveston and Albany, Texas, and was a member of Rice's first freshman and first graduating class. After receiving his doctorate in 1920 (the first given in Physics by Rice), Ricker remained at the Institute for a year before leaving to pursue his career in industrial research, first at Western Electric (1920-1923), and later at Humble Oil Refining Company (1923-1927), Hughes Tool Company (1927-1938), and Carter Oil Company (1938-1959). He ended his career of seismic and geophysical exploration in 1959 to return to academic life, taking a professorship of physics at the University of Oklahoma at Norman (1959-1980). Listed among his inventions are the paper cone loudspeaker and equipment for Texas's first deep oil wells, including the plunger lift pump for drilling. He is the author of numerous articles and a book, Transient Waves in Visco-Elastic Media. See Sallyport, April 1978.
Floyd Seyward Lear was a member of the faculty at the Rice Institute (later Rice University) in the Department of History from 1925 to 1975, the year of his death. He was born in Corfu, New York, on July 7, 1895, received an A.B. degree from the University of Rochester in 1917, and Master's and Ph.D. degrees from Harvard University in 1920 and 1925, respectively. He first came to Texas in 1917 for military duty in the United States Army, serving from 1917 to 1919 in the Army Air Service at the new Ellington Field near Houston.
He married Elsie Laura Mann in 1920, and after completing his graduate work at Harvard returned to Houston in 1925 to join the faculty at the Rice Institute, then beginning its fourteenth academic year, as Instructor in history. He taught a wide range of courses at Rice over the next fifty years, including ancient and medieval literature and history (his particular areas of expertise), as well as courses in political theory and American history as the needs of a growing Department of History required. He was Assistant Professor from 1927 to 1945, Professor in 1945, Harris Masterson Jr. Professor of History in 1953 (the first to hold this chair), and Trustee Distinguished Professor from 1965. He served as chairman of the Department of History from 1933 to 1960, was a member of Phi Beta Kappa, and from 1925 a charter member of the Medieval Academy of America.
As a teacher, Dr. Lear took a personal interest in his students, coming to regard many as friends while remaining closely involved in their intellectual development. He was instrumental in developing a graduate program in history at Rice and in encouraging students interested in pursuing academic careers, including young women for whom opportunities in this area were just beginning to grow. He witnessed the extensive physical expansion that took place at Rice following World War II, and was involved in recruitment of faculty and in changes to the curriculum brought about by post-war shifts in national priorities.
Dr. Lear's papers reflect the broad interests of a humanist, teacher, and scholar. When writing in 1965 to the family of another of Rice's early faculty members whose papers had recently been given to the University Archives, he expressed his thoughts concerning the value of such papers for preserving a university's collective memory, saying:
In a very short time there will be no one left in active service here who recalls or has direct knowledge of the old school. And the depth of ignorance about almost everything prior to the Second War would appear quite unbelievable to graduates of a generation ago. The amount of correspondence and other memorabilia associated with the original faculty is all too small in the archives and the likelihood of preserving this material decreases with every passing year.
Dr. Lear's own papers help to fill this need by providing a record of years critical in the development of Rice University.
Annie Ray Watkin, eldest of three children of William Ward Watkin and Annie Ray Townsend, was born May 11, 1915 in Houston, TX at the Watkin residence, 5009 Caroline. She was home schooled through second grade by her mother and then entered the Kinkaid School (San Jacinto @ Elgin) where she graduated from the tenth grade. The family traveled to France in 1928-29 for her father to study architecture. In 1930 she entered Chatham Hall, an Episcopal Preparatory School in Chatham, VA and majored in American history. She attended Rice Institute from Sept. 1932 to June 1936, graduating with a baccalaureate degree in liberal arts with a major in French. She was queen of Rice Institute's Archi-Arts Ball in 1936 and the same year was inducted into Phi Beta Kappa.
Ray married Carl Biehl, a shipping executive, in Dec. 1939 and moved with him to Washington, DC where he had accepted a position with the War Shipping Department. After her husband left for England with the Army Transportation Corps, Ray returned to Houston and pursued a master of arts degree in the history of art at Rice Institute under the auspices of the School of Architecture and professor James Chillman. She received her MA in 1944. Ray served as secretary of the Houston chapter of the American Red Cross through 1945 and as Red Cross Arts and Skills Corps Chairman in 1947. Ray formed the Rice Alumni History Committee in 1975, now the Alumni Archives Committee, and permanently endows the William Ward Watkin Traveling Scholarship in Architecture. Ray divorced Biehl in 1955 and in 1961 married Henry W. Hoagland, spending time between Boston, Houston, Kennebunkport, ME and Tucson, AZ. Following Hoagland's death, Ray married Robert F. Strange on Jan. 25, 1997 and now lives in Brenham, TX.
Robert F. Curl's affiliation with Rice University begins with his bachelor's degree at Rice in 1954. He received his Ph.D. in 1957 at the University of California, Berkeley. After a year at Harvard University as a research fellow in microwave spectroscopy, Curl joined the Rice faculty as an assistant professor in chemistry. In 1967 he became a full professor, served as chair of the chemistry department from 1992-1996, and then as the Harry C. and Olga K. Wiess Professor of Natural Sciences. In 2002, Curl was named the first Pitzer Professor of Chemistry.
Curl has received many honors and awards including the Clayton Prize of the Institute of Mechanical Engineers and the Alexander von Humboldt Senior US Scientist Award from the University of Bonn, Germany. Along with Richard Smalley (Rice University's Gene and Norman Hackerman Professor of Chemistry) and Sir Harold Kroto (University of Sussex, Brighton, England), Curl received the 1996 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the discovery in 1985 of buckminsterfullerenes, the third molecular form of carbon. In 1992 the trio received the American Physical Society International Prize for New Materials.
Curl is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Phi Lamba Upsilon and Sigma Xi, and a Fellow of the Optical Society of America. He has been Visiting Research Officer at the National Research Council of Canada, visiting scientist at the Institute of Molecular Science, Okazaki, Japan, and the National Institute for Standards and Technology in Boulder, the University of Bonn, and the University of Canterbury, Christchurch, New Zealand.
Edward Norbeck was born in Prince Albert, Saskatchewan, Canada, in 1915. He received his B.A. (1948), M.A. (1949) and Ph.D. (1952) in Anthropology from the University of Michigan. Dr. Norbeck was an assistant professor of Anthropology at the University of California, Berkeley, and at the University of Utah. He became a member of the Rice University faculty in 1960 and was Chairman of the Department of Anthropology and Sociology from 1960-1971. He was a professor of Anthropology from 1962-80. Dr. Norbeck was Director of the Graduate Program in Behavioral Sciences and he served as Dean of Humanities from 1965-67. He retired in 1981 and afterward taught for five additional years at other universities as visiting professor.
He was also active in many professional societies in various capacities such as being president of the American Ethnological Society and Program Director of the annual meeting of the American Anthropological Association. He also acted as chair for a symposium held at Rice University in 1966 entitled The Study of Personality: An Interdisciplinary Appraisal.
Dr. Norbeck was an expert in the cultures of the Pacific Ocean area and did extensive field work in Japan and Hawaii. In 1958-59, he studied postwar economic and social changes in urban Japan, Tokyo, and in rural northeastern Japan. In 1964 he received a National Science Foundation grant to go to Japan to study the new social institutions which had grown up there since World War II, with particular emphasis on that nation's 168 new religions. In 1972 he was named a Piper Professor, an award given by the Piper Foundation of San Antonio which honors university professors for demonstrated ability in the classroom. He was the recipient of grants from the Ford Foundation and the Wenner-Gren Foundation.
Dr. Norbeck published many books and articles and was an editor of the Rice University Studies (1963-1967). He also edited many other papers and theses.
Dr. Norbeck, then Professor Emeritus at Rice University, passed away in August 1991.
R. John Rath, born December 12, 1910, in St. Francis, Kansas, received a Bachelor of Arts in 1932 from the University of Kansas, a Masters of Arts in 1934 from the University of California at Berkeley, and Ph.D. in 1941 from Columbia University. Following army service in 1945, he was named Chief, Division of Documentary Evidence, United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration, U.S. Zone in Germany, and later, chief of the same division, Austrian mission. He was granted a Social Science Research Council Fellowship in 1937-1938 for research in Austria and Italy and a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1956-1957 for research in Italy.
Dr. Rath held teaching assignments at the University of Arkansas, Mississippi State College for Women, University of Georgia, the University of Colorado and the University of Texas as Professor of History before joining the Rice University faculty in 1963. At Rice University he was Chairman of the Department of History and Political Science from 1963 to 1968 and Mary Gibbs Jones Professor of History from 1969 to 1979.
Rath was co-founder and former president of the Conference Group for Central European History of the United States and Canada, former president of the Southwestern Social Science Association, and member and board member of numerous national and international historical associations. He wrote numerous books, articles and book reviews on European history. He also founded and edited the "Austrian History Yearbook."
John Thomas Duckworth, distinguished naval officer, son of Sarah Johnson and Rev. Henry Duckworth, born in Letherhead, Surrey, England, began his naval career as a midshipman in the royal navy in 1759. He was promoted to the rank of Lieutenant on the Princess Royal, based in the West Indies station in 1770; Commander in 1779; Post Captain in 1780. Aboard the Orion (attached to the Channel fleet), Duckworth saw action in three battles during latter May and early June, 1794, and was one of eighteen Commanders honored with a gold medal and ribbon and thanks of both Houses of Parliament. Se served as Commodore in Santo Domingo in 1796; Commodore at the taking of Minorca in 1798; Rear-Admiral of the White Squadron in 1799; Commander-in-Chief at Barbados and Leeward Islands, 1800-1802; Commander-in-Chief at Jamaica, 1801-1805. Duckworth was nominated a Knights Companion of the most Honourable Military Order of the Bath in 1801 and installed in 1803. He was also briefly a Colonel of Marines. He succeeded in capturing numerous enemy vessels and was promoted to Vice-Admiral of the Blue Squadron in 1804 and remained in Jamaica until 1805. On his return to England he was appointed second in command of the Mediterranean fleet.
Duckworth married Anne Wallis in 1776 and had two children, George and Sarah Anne.
Vice AdmiralCharles Stirling (1760-1833): Resident Commissioner at Jamaica, 1803-1804; [British] Naval Commander of the South American expedition to Buenos Aires in 1806; Commander-in-Chief of the Cape, 1807; Commander-in-Chief at Jamaica from 1811-1813. He distinguished himself with the capture of the American privateer "Congress" in 1781 and at that time was rewarded with a promotion to the rank of Captain.
The collection consists of letters written mainly to Louisa Neumann (later Mrs. Charles H. Bering) in Houston, by her brothers and sisters. Of greatest interest are the 12 letters written by her brother Emil from 1862-64. Emil, a member of the Confederate Army, was stationed at Fort Eagle Grove, Pelican Battery, and Galveston. In a letter to Louisa written from Galveston on January 7, 1863, he described a battle in which he was in charge of cannon "near the brick warehouse" on The Strand. He witnessed the capture of the vessel "Harriet Lane" and the escape of her companion ships, the "Orosco" and the "Clifton." In a letter written four days later, he mentioned the five vessels then lying off the island, which "shot over one hundred shots into town." We do not know the names of these ships, but presumably they were Union vessels, as they were firing into Galveston which was then held by the Confederates.
Blanche Harding Sewall (Mrs. Cleveland Sewall) was a native of Fort Worth, Texas and attended Rice Institute with the class of 1917. She was an artist, philanthropist and, as a patron of the arts, a founding member of the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston. She organized a private foundation, the Library of Arts. At her husband's death in 1942, she assumed operations of his wholesale grocery company, Carson Sewall & Co. Marine Division. As a memorial to her husband, she donated funds for the construction of a building for the Rice campus, Sewall Hall. Mrs. Sewall died on May 28, 1973, in Houston. Funds from her estate provided for the Andrew Hays Buchanan Professorship and the Noah Harding Professorship at Rice. Andrew Hays Buchanan was her maternal grandfather, and Noah Harding was her paternal grandfather. The Sewall residence, designed by Ralph Adams Cram in the Mediterranean Renaissance style in 1925, was left to Rice University. Blanche Harding Sewall was awarded Rice's Gold Medal posthumously in 1973.
Billie McClain Carr (later known as "The Godmother" for her work on behalf of the liberal wing of the Democratic Party) was born in Houston, Texas, June 1, 1928. She grew up near downtown Houston, graduated from Sam Houston High School in 1946, and married three months later; she had three sons, and over the years took courses at South Texas College and the University of Houston.
Carr's activities as a political organizer began in 1952, when political issues in Texas stirred her to run for Democratic chairman of her precinct and she unexpectedly won. Soon afterward she became a protégé of Frankie Randolph, a leader and benefactress of liberal causes who helped found the Harris County Democrats (a liberal precinct organization) in 1953. She taught Carr the art of grass roots political organizing, and over time Carr assumed a leadership role in Harris County Democrats and began to establish a statewide reputation as an organizer, convention strategist, and spokesperson for the statewide liberal coalition.
In 1954 Carr was elected a member from her precinct to the Harris County Democratic Executive Committee, serving in that capacity until 1972; she was also Harris County's member on the Texas State Democratic Executive Committee from 1964 to 1966. She was a leader in efforts to achieve proportional liberal participation in presidential conventions and became nationally known in the Democratic Party for taking a rump delegation to the 1968 Democratic Convention in Chicago, an action which helped initiate a party-wide set of reforms abolishing the use of the unit rule by which conservative Democrats had been able to minimize the election of liberals as delegates to presidential conventions.
As a liberal activist and strategist, Carr also fought for civil rights. She protested the Vietnam War and fought for women's rights in the 1970s, and for gay rights in the 1980s. She helped organize the 1966 campaign leading to the election of Barbara Jordan, the first black woman elected to the Texas Senate, and was later described by U. S. Rep. Mickey Leland as "the grand old lady of liberal politics" for her efforts in helping a number of minority candidates (including himself) win political office. She later established a business, Billie Carr & Associates, specializing in campaign and other political services.
In 1972 Carr was elected to serve as a member of the Democratic National Committee (a position she held until 2000); there she was elected "whip" for the progressive-reform caucus and in June 1981 was elected chair of the newly-formed Progressive-Liberal Caucus. At various periods she also served on the Credentials Committee, the Platform Advisory Committee on Older Citizens, and the Executive Committee.
Billie Carr died in Houston on September 9, 2002.
Ralph Anderson, Jr. was born January 1, 1923 in Houston, Texas, the son of Mr. And Mrs. Ralph Anderson, Sr. Ralph Anderson, Sr. (Andy) was the Sports Editor of the Houston Post and later the Houston Press.
Ralph Anderson, Jr. attended school in Houston, graduating from Lamar High School in 1939 and Rice Institute (later Rice University) in 1943 with a B. A. degree in Architecture. While at Rice, he won The American Institute of Architecture Student Medal, and was the first architectural student at the university to be elected to Phi Beta Kappa, a national honorary fraternity.
After being inducted into the Army in 1943, he was sent to Harvard University. Upon completion of an Advanced Studies Program, he went to France where he served in the European Theatre of Operations. As a result of a head wound received at the Battle of the Bulge, he was awarded both the Purple Heart and the Bronze Star.
When the war ended, Ralph Anderson returned to Rice Institute, and received a B. S. degree in Architecture in 1947. After graduating, he joined the firm of Wilson, Morris and Crain. He worked for two years, then took a leave of absence in 1949 for an extensive study tour of Europe. He returned to the firm in 1950 and was made a partner in 1952. In 1972 the firm became known as Wilson, Crain and Anderson and in 1975 it became Wilson, Crain, Anderson and Reynolds. He was President of Crain/Anderson, Inc. in 1978.
Ralph Anderson was an artist, book reviewer, lecturer and author. He took part in the 12th Annual Texas Painting and Sculpture Exhibit in 1951. He wrote Handcar White: The Battle History of 2nd Battalion, 328th Infantry Regiment WWII and Spain Today, plus numerous articles for architectural journals.
He was a registered architect in Texas, Indiana, Louisiana, the District of Columbia, Missouri, Kansas, North Carolina, Oklahoma and Ohio, and designed both family residences and commercial buildings. The World Trade Center in Houston, the Astrodome, Kelsey-Seybold Clinic, the Houston Post Building, the Harris Court House Addition, and the Alice Pratt Brown Fine Arts Library at Rice University were among his many designs.
He won numerous awards, such as the Award of Merit, Texas Architecture, 1961, 1965; The Commendation Award, Houston Chapter A. I. A. 1962; Interior Certificate of Commendation, Municipal Art Commission, 1973, and many more. He became President of the Houston Chapter of the American Institute of Architects in 1966 and was elected a Fellow in the A. I. A., in 1967.
Ralph Anderson was a member of Allegro, The Tejas Club of Houston, and the Argyle Club of San Antonio.
He died February 3, 1990 in Houston.
Jack McCaine was born in 1923 in Houston. He attended Texas A&M College prior to WWII and graduated in 1950 from the University of Houston with a Bachelor of Science degree in Architecture.
He joined the Spacecraft Center Area Office, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in 1962. From August 1962 - January 1966, Jack McCaine was employed as project manager for the design and construction of the Mission Control Center, Buildings 30 and 48, and an addition to the Central Heating and Cooling Plant, Building 24 at the Manned Spacecraft Center. This project had an extremely tight schedule, being tied to the space program in progress. This was a first--no one had built a Mission Control Center before. He was project manager for design of Project Engineering Facility, Building 45, which is a seven-story office building. He was also manager for design of Test Operations Support Facility, Building 32A. This was an addition to the large vacuum chamber building.
In addition to the above, he handled specification-writing chores for the Area Office, plus various small projects.
From January 1966 to June 1975, he was an architect, with the Engineering Division, Manned Spacecraft Center, which became the Johnson Space Center in 1973.
Some of the projects that he was responsible for include the design of Engineering Building 17, which is a two-story office building, the design of Systems Integration and Mockup Facility, Building 9a. This is the facility (a large, air conditioned hanger) that contained the full-scale mockup of the Shuttle which visitors were allowed to visit. The West end of the facility contained a large air-bearing floor that was a first-of-its-kind.
Jack McCaine was also Project Manager for various projects such as a proposed addition to Emergency Power Building 48. While in his position, he was responsible for facility preparations for Presidential visits, astronaut returns and other events.
He also handled facility modifications for various exhibits, the museum area of Building 2 and updated and maintained construction guide specifications for JSC.
From June 1975 to December 1979, he served as a General Engineer in the Engineering Division, Nasa, Johnson Space Center. In this capacity, he was Manager of the Construction Services Contract. This contract provided day-to-day, on-site services for modifications to buildings and facilities. This included a work order system handling all types of construction tasks and employing 40 to 60 craftsmen plus superintendents, estimating and accounting support. This effort provided construction services for a wide range of tasks and normally had 200+ tasks in the system at one time.
In 1914, native Texan Herman Brown was given eighteen mules in lieu of back wages for construction work done in his hometown of Belton, which he used to enter the construction business on his own. In 1919 his brother-in-law, Dan Root, advanced him money for working capital, and the company was named Brown and Root, Incorporated. In 1922 Herman's younger brother, George Rufus Brown, joined the firm. Dan Root, a prosperous Central Texas cotton farmer, died in 1929. The paving of dirt roads and building of steel bridges for municipal and county governments in Central Texas led the firm to a successful joint bid in 1936 to construct the Marshall Ford Dam (now Mansfield Dam) on the Colorado River. A 1940 contract to construct the Corpus Christi Naval Air Station was the first of their big federal war projects. The brothers formed the Brown Shipbuilding Company in 1942 and constructed more than 350 vessels for the navy. The shipyard had a labor force of 25,000 and won the Army-Navy E and a presidential citation.
After World War II the Brown brothers and other investors purchased the Big and Little Inch pipelines from the government with the winning high bid of $143 million and organized a new company, Texas Eastern Transmission Company, which is now a part of Panhandle Eastern Corporation. Brown and Root was widely known during the 1950s and 1960s for constructing United States air and naval bases (in Spain, France, and Guam) and roads, dams, bridges, petrochemical plants, and large offshore drilling platforms. In 1961 the company won the planning contract for the $200 million Manned Spacecraft Center in Houston.
Herman Brown died on November 15, 1962, and was buried in Glenwood Cemetery, Houston. Brown was a cofounder of the Brown Foundation. He was a member of the board of directors of First City National Bank of Houston, Texas Eastern Transmission Corporation, Southwestern University, Armco Steel Corporation, and Texas Children's Hospital in Houston. He was also active in oil and gas exploration and ranching.
After the death of his brother Herman in 1962, George became president of Brown and Root. Later that year the corporation was sold to the Halliburton Company.
In December 1962 the Halliburton Company of Dallas purchased Brown and Root, which continues to operate under its own name. Halliburton's significant acquisition of Brown and Root of Houston in 1962 gained for the company the sort of subsidiaries that heretofore had been missing: industrial and marine engineering and construction firms. At the time of acquisition Brown and Root had annual revenues of $5.5 billion.
George R. Brown served as a director of the Halliburton Company, Armco Steel Corporation, Louisiana Land and Exploration Company, International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation, Trans-World Airlines, Southland Paper Company, First City Bancorporation, and Highland Oil Company. He served on important commissions for presidents Truman, Eisenhower, Kennedy, and Johnson, and was appointed to commissions for the state of Texas, from the 1930s under Governor James Allred to the 1970s under Governor Dolph Briscoe. He was a well-known friend and visible supporter of Lyndon B. Johnson throughout his political career. He was the recipient of many honors during his lifetime, including Awards from Rice University, Colorado School of Mines, Southwestern University, and the University of Texas. He received several awards in construction and engineering, including the John Fritz Medal in 1977 from the five national engineering societies, and the American Petroleum Institute Gold Medal.
Brown served as chairman of the board of trustees of Rice University for fifteen years of his twenty-five years of service on the board. In 1951 the Brown brothers and their wives established the Brown Foundation, through which they pursued a strong and generous interest in philanthropy. By June 30, 1994, the foundation had granted more than $381 million to charitable institutions, primarily in higher education and the arts. In 1925 Brown married Alice Nelson Pratt of Lometa, Texas, who became well-known for her support for the arts at the local, state, and national levels. They had three children. Brown died on January 22, 1983, and was buried in Glenwood Cemetery, Houston.
"BROWN, GEORGE RUFUS." and "BROWN, HERMAN". The Handbook of Texas Online. http://www.tsha.utexas.edu/handbook/online/articles/view/BB/fbrbg.html [Accessed Mon Jul 14 12:01:07 US/Central 2003 ].
Charles Wishaw Clubbe (1823-1886) occupied the position of vicar at the living of Hughenden near High Wycombe in Buckinghamshire, from approximately 1851 to 1868. Hughenden Manor had been purchased by Benjamin Disraeli (1804 to 1881), one of Great Britain's outstanding politicians and statesmen of the nineteenth century, in September 1848. Clubbe's appointment was made at the express wish of Mr. Disraeli.
Richard E. Smalley was affiliated with Rice University from 1976 until his death in 2005, serving as the Gene and Norman Hackerman Professor of Chemistry at Rice beginning in 1982 and Professor of Physics at Rice beginning in 1990. A co-founder of the Rice Quantum Institute in 1979, he served as its chairman beginning in 1986, and was the director of the Center for Nanoscale Science and Technology. He was a member of the National Academy of Sciences (elected 1990), the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (elected 1991), and was the recipient of the 1991 Irving Langmuir Prize in chemical physics, the 1992 International Prize for New Materials (shared with R.F. Curl and H.W. Kroto), the 1992 E.O. Lawrence Award of the U.S. Department of Energy, the 1992 Robert A. Welch Award in Chemistry, the 1993 William H. Nichols Medal, and the 1996 Nobel Prize in Chemistry (shared with R.F. Curl and H.W. Kroto).
Smalley pioneered advances in the development of supersonic beam laser spectroscopy, super-cold pulsed beams, and laser-driven sources of free radicals, triplets, and metal and semiconductor cluster beams. He discovered and characterized fullerenes, the third elemental form of carbon after graphite and diamond, for which he was awarded the Nobel Prize.
Born June 6, 1943, in Akron, Ohio, Smalley received his bachelor's degree in chemistry in 1965 from the University of Michigan, and master's and doctorate degrees from Princeton University in 1971 and 1973.
Dick Hedges was drafted into the United States Army in December of 1942. He was sent first to Dodd Field (Fort Sam Houston) in San Antonio and from there joined the 654th Engineer Topographic Battalion at Camp McCoy, Wisconsin. He was put in Company B (Art, Drafting and Printing).
In December, 1943 the 654th was sent to Camp Shanks on the outskirts of New York City for a short while, and then crossed the Atlantic Ocean on the HMS Aquitania to Gourock, the port for Glasgow, Scotland. After a week in Glasgow, Dick Hedges was sent to Tetbury, England in the Cotswold Hills.
With the First U. S. Army headquarters in Bristol, England requested that its G-2 (air) form a new unit to be known as APID (Army or Aerial Photo Interpretation Detachment), Dick Hedges was assigned to it. He was put on P.I. team #15 and put in charge of APID's small drafting section. He was given a Top Secret BIGOT card and was sent to London to do special detailed work on beach maps for the invasion of Normandy. APID was living in tents in the woods at Middle Wallop near the Stonehenge in Southern England when the invasion of Normandy occurred on June 6, 1944.
Landing on Omaha beach at D+24, APID was at Airstrip #9 at Le Molay when Generals Eisenhower, Bradley and Montgomery visited in July at the time of the St. Lo breakthru.
APID moved from Normandy to Gif-sur-Yvette, a village south of Versailles, where the soldiers again lived in tents, but did their work in a huge chateau nearby.
In September APID then moved from France north to Gosselies, a suburb of the city of Charleroi, in southern Belgium.
For recreation, the 67th's three squadrons plus the attached groups such as APID, formed a basketball league and Dick Hedges coached and played on APID's team.
In March, 1945 APID left Belgium and moved east into Germany. The first stop was Ordensberg Vogelsang (Orderly Mountain Bird Chant) a former school for Hitler Jugend (Youth). From there they crossed the Rhine River at Remagen, and proceeded to Limburg, Germany.
When the war in Europe ended in May of 1945, APID was at Eschwege, Germany. After APID was disbanded, Dick Hedges was sent to Weisbaden, Germany where 12th Army Group Headquarters was located. Its code name was "Eagle." Dick Hedges applied for a job and was assigned to G-2. He was billeted with MFIU- 4 (Mobile Field Interrogation Unit #4) which operated the Weisbaden jail housing several high ranking Nazis.
In July 1945 Dick was sent to (Military Intelligence Service Center) at Oberursel, 12 miles from Frankfurt. He was promoted to Master Sergeant and put in charge of the library. While serving with MISC, Dick Hedges and Major Bill Silliman escorted five high ranking Nazis to Nurnberg to stand trial as war criminals. They were Field Marshall Albert Kesselring, commander of the Wermacht in North Africa, Italy and the Western Front; General of the Artillery Walter Warlimont; Reich Finance Minister Horace Greeley Hjalmar Schacht; Dr. William (Wilhelm) Stuckart, Secretary of the Minister of the Interior; and Frans Xavier Schwarz, the Treasurer of the NAZI party.
Several other excursions were taken out of "Dulag Luft" at Oberursel by groups of GIs who were stationed there. One was to the Buchenwald Concentration Camp near Weimar, Germany. Another was to Bavaria and Salzburg, Austria. While visiting in Austria, the group visited Hitler's former mountain top headquarters, "Adlerhorst" (Eagle's nest).
Dick Hedges spent three years in the United States Army earning the ranks of Private, T-5 (Corporal) for one year, T-4 (Sergeant), and T-3 (Staff Sergeant) for one year, Technical Sergeant and finally, Master Sergeant.
Among the many awards that he won were the Legion of Merit-Legionaire, Bronze Star, Good Conduct Medal and Victory Medal, American Theater of Operations medal, and the European Theater of Operations medal with five battle stars.
He received an Honorable Discharge from the United States Army at Camp McCoy, Wisconsin in March of 1946. After a short visit with his family in Iowa, he returned to Houston and his job in the Land Drafting Division of the Land Department of Shell Oil Company.
Edward Knoblock (1874-1945) was born in New York City and educated at Harvard, but spent most of his professional life living and working in Great Britain. Playwright, scenarist and novelist, Knoblock was in constant touch with many of the leading literary and artistic figures of his generation, as the ensuing collection will show. As well as working independently, Knoblock often collaborated with others. The plays, Milestones (1912), and, London Life (1924) were produced with the assistance of Arnold Bennett. Similarly, The Good Companions, originally published in 1929 by J.B. Priestley, was dramatised jointly by Knoblock and the author in 1931. Plays written by Knoblock alone include, The Faun (1911), Kismet (1911), My Lady's Dress (1914), Marie-Odile (1915), and Tiger-Tiger (1918). Among the novels written by Edward Knoblock are, The Ant Heap (1929), The Man With Two Mirrors(1931), The Love Lady (1933), and Inexperience (1941). Some of these works are referred to throughout the collection, notably by Dame Edith Sitwell and David Belasco.
Alan Dugald McKillop taught English at Rice University beginning in 1920, and retired in 1968 as Trustee Distinguished Professor of English. His interests included 18th century poetry and prose, and British novelist Samuel Richardson and poet James Thomson in particular.
Born May 24, 1892 in Lynn, Massachusetts to Scottish parents, McKillop attended Harvard University, graduating summa cum laude in 1913 with a B.A. in philosophy. He returned to Harvard and earned his Ph.D. in English in 1920, and arriving at Rice Institute, September, 1920, to begin what would be forty-nine years of service to the Rice community. McKillop was a member of the Texas Philosophical Society, the Texas Institute of Letters, the Houston Philosophical Society, and Phi Beta Kappa.
A long-time friend of the Fondren Library, McKillop was the founding editor of the Fondren Library's publication "The Flyleaf," and was responsible for developing many of the library's key collections, including the Axson Collection of 18th century British plays.
McKillop died in Houston on August 5, 1974.
Charles Garside was born in New York City on June 27, 1927. His father, Charles Sr., was a prominent New York Lawyer who, in 1947-49, chaired the state's first Commission Against Discrimination. The elder Garside died in November, 1964.
Garside was educated at St. Bernard's School for Boys and graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy in 1944. After service in the navy, he received his A.B. with honors from Princeton in 1950. One year later he received an M.A. from Columbia University, and in 1957 he was awarded a doctorate in history at Yale University. Between Columbia and Yale, Garside taught at Hotchkiss, a private secondary school in Connecticut.
Garside stayed on at Yale to teach as a member of the history department. Garside continued at Yale for almost a decade, moving up from Instructor to Associate professor. For three years he served as Director of Undergraduate Studies in History. In his time at Yale, he was also Assistant Master of Timothy Dwight College from 1961-1963 and was Executive Fellow of that college from 1963-1966. While at Yale Garside won wide acclaim for his scholarship, his eloquence as a speaker, and for his dedication to his students.
In 1966, when Garside left Yale for Rice, he was honored with a lifetime appointment as Associate Fellow of Timothy Dwight College, and the undergraduates endowed in his honor the Garside Cup. This award to be given to an outstanding senior who best exemplified his talents. One of the reasons Garside chose Rice was for its Ivy league style college system, a system Garside considered to be the only proper way to organize undergraduate living.
At Rice, Garside became a respected member of the faculty and furthered his reputation as a teacher whose focus was on his students. Garside achieved his full Professorship at Rice in 1978. Between 1973 and 1983, Garside's former students voted him five George R. Brown Awards, an award given annually for outstanding teaching. Members of Baker College at Rice, where he was an Executive Associate, honored him with the college's Service Award in 1970.
Well versed in history, literature, music, and the arts, Garside's particular area of scholarly interest was the Renaissance and the Reformation, especially the relationship between the Reformation and the arts. On this topic he was a renowned authority and he published many scholarly works including the books: "Zwingli and the Arts" in 1966 and "The Origins of Calvin's Theory of Music" in 1979. In 1974-75, Garside served as President of The American Society for Reformation Research. At the time of his death, Garside was working on a biography of John Calvin, the great Protestant reformer.
Garside died June 11, 1987, from complications associated with a stroke suffered in May of that year. Garside never married and at the time of his death was survived by his mother, brother, sister, and eight nieces and nephews.
Austin, Texas attorney (1903-1977) active in the Democratic Party.
These photographs document the U. S. Civil War, 1861-1865.
On Friday, October 25, 1985, George Rupp was officially inaugurated as the fifth president of Rice University. He had taken office as President on July 1, 1985. Dr. Rupp had previously been the dean of Harvard University's Divinity School for six years.
The inaugural proceedings were held out of doors in the Rice Academic Quadrangle at 2:30 p.m. The inaugural dinner was held at the Westin Galleria Hotel Ballroom.
Speakers at the events were: Inauguration Speaker - John Archibald Wheeler, from University of Texas at Austin; Inaugural Banquet Speaker - Derek Bok, President of Harvard; Banquet Speaker - James Laney, President of Emory.
Paul Cooper, composer in residence of the Shepherd School, composed the original music for the inauguration ceremonies, Music for a Festive Occasion: Canons for Eight Trumpets. The Rice University Band, conducted by Kenneth Dye, provided the music.
Around 400 delegates representing universities and learned societies from around the world registered for the inauguration.
Hanszen College is one of the four original colleges, which were established to house students. The college is named for Harry Clay Hanszen, a wealthy Texas oilman, who served as chairman of Rice's Board of Governors from 1946 to 1950.
Will Rice College is named for William M. Rice, Jr., the nephew and namesake of the founder, a Houston businessman, and trustee of the Institute from 1899 until his death in 1944. Rice was the chairman of the board of trustees from 1941 until 1944. Will Rice College includes South Hall, the first dormitory built at Rice. It was part of Residential Group Number One until this was partitioned when the residential college system was adopted.
Will Rice was opened in 1912 and became one of the men's colleges in 1957. It went co-ed in 1977.
In 1963 Jones was the only women's college at Rice, and there was such a severe housing shortage that some Rice women were being housed in another university's dorms. In October of that year, George R. Brown and his wife Alice Pratt Brown donated one million dollars through the Brown Foundation to build a new dorm for women at Rice. The new college was established in memory of their sister-in-law, Margarett Root Brown, (1896-1963) who was the wife of the also late Hermann Brown. Margarett Brown was devoted to the fine arts as an art critic and collector and served on the boards of several of organizations. As a tribute to her love of the arts, the first floor of Brown College houses a wide variety of paintings and antique furniture donated by the George R. Brown family and others.
The College was dedicated on October 3, 1965 and was filled primarily by women who had volunteered to leave Jones College to start a new college. Since then other colleges have been added to Rice, and beginning in 1971 some colleges went co-ed. Brown held out as the last all female college until 1987 when it agreed to accept male members.
The College is an eight-story masonry structure on the northeast campus. The high-rise was devised to spare trees. In 2001 new construction will change the Brown College complex. An addition will connect to Brown College on four levels and will extend west of the College in the area occupied by the current Jones Masters' House. New Brown Commons will anchor the west end of Brown Quadrangle with the existing Brown Master's House on the South Side.
Excerpted from Rice University Construction Web Page and Brown College Web Page
The first meeting of the Houston Philosophical Society was held on January 18, 1920 at the University Club in downtown Houston. It was organized to bring together the intellectual community both on and off campus. Its purpose was to "stimulate interest in modern developments in science and philosophy." The word "philosophical" is used in its broadest sense and members of the society represent all departments of the arts, sciences, and letters.
At that first meeting Professor H. A. Wilson was elected as president, Professor G. C. Evans as secretary, and Mr. S. G. McCann (the registrar at Rice) as treasurer. Three additional members were elected to serve on the executive council: Professors C. W. Heaps, H. B. Weiser, and R. A. Tsanoff. The persons listed here, whose main work was respectively in physics, mathematics, history, chemistry, and philosophy, indicate the wide range of interests that has characterized the Society from the beginning.
The monthly meetings held during the academic year normally consist of a dinner, followed by a business session and then the address of the evening by either a member of the Society or an invited guest speaker. Time is reserved for questions or discussion after the address.
The members of the Society are elected based on their high intellectual and professional achievements. Originally an all male organization, in 1987 the bylaws were changed so that they did not imply that one had to be male to be a member. By the next year several women had been elected. Today the Society has no gender or racial restrictions and has a maximum membership of 240 members divided into eight sections as follows: Astronomy, Engineering, and Mathematics, Biochemistry, Biology, Chemistry, Geology, and Physics, Medicine, Business and Economics, Education, Health, and Physical Education, Philosophy, Psychology, Religion, and Social Science, History, Journalism, Language, Literature, and Library Science, Architecture, Fine Arts, Music, and Theater, Government and Law.
Members pay annual dues but are exempt if they have achieved Life Membership status. This membership is granted to active members of the Society who are over the age of 70, and who have been active members for a period of at least 10 years.
Parts excerpted from the 1998 Houston Philosophical Society Directory/Handbook
Jones College was the first dormitory at Rice University (Institute) for women and opened in September 1957. The building was made possible by a $1 million grant from Houston Endowment, created by the late Jesse H. Jones and Mrs. Jones. It was named Mary Gibbs Jones College in honor of Mrs. Jones. The College went co-ed in the Fall of 1980.
The original complex, located between the President's residence and Rice Boulevard, consisted of 3 building groups making up a U shape with two four-story dormitory buildings on each side of a court and a dining hall making up the top of the U. Major construction at Rice in 2001 included changes to Jones College. An addition connects Jones North and Jones South on four levels and forms the east end of Jones Quadrangle. The Ground Level was dedicated to the new Jones Commons that replaced the existing facility. A new Kitchen and Servery serves the Martel, Jones and Brown Commons. A new Master's residence was completed in February 2001.
Excerpted from Rice University Construction Web Page.
Will Rice College is named for William M. Rice, Jr., the nephew and namesake of the founder, a Houston businessman, and trustee of the Institute from 1899 until his death in 1944. Rice was the chairman of the board of trustees from 1941 until 1944. Will Rice College includes South Hall, the first dormitory built at Rice. It was part of Residential Group Number One until this was partitioned when the residential college system was adopted.
Will Rice was opened in 1912 and became one of the men's colleges in 1957. It went co-ed in 1977. Excerpted from Rice University, An Architectural Tour by Stephen Fox
As codified by the Committee on Student Housing in the 1950s, each residential college has a master, often a husband and wife team. The college masters "would be the primary ones responsible for achieving the goals of social concern and intellectual curiosity. It was therefore important to choose the masters with great care; the committee recommended that they be chosen from the ranks of full professors. Although the committee originally thought that masters, faculty fellows, and student officers would handle disciplinary matters, the final report emphasized that masters were not to be thought of as disciplinarians... The master retained overall responsibility for student life in his college, but his main duties were to counsel students, provide an example, and advise student committees.
Excerpted from A History of Rice University: The Institute Years, 1907-1963, by Fredericka Meiners, pg. 180.
Baker College was established as one of the five original residential colleges at Rice in the fall of 1957. It was named in honor of Captain James Addison Baker who served as the Rice Institute's first chairman on the Board of Trustees.
The College went co-ed in the Fall of 1973. Following the opening of the Institute in 1912, the first buildings that comprise the present Baker College were constructed. The first unit to be completed in the residence area of the new institution was the present Commons of Baker, which was to serve as the central dining hall for the entire campus for forty-three years. The next building completed was East Hall, which is now known to members as the "Old Wing" of Baker. These buildings remained unchanged until the installation of the college system at Rice in 1957 when the addition of the "New Wing" and Baker House completed the present Baker College. The Baker House is home of the College Master and his family.
The Charter Members of Baker College, under the leadership of the first cabinet, declared the purpose of their college to be: "to provide and maintain an atmosphere and environment which will encourage the intellectual and social growth of its members through the development of a sense of responsibility in all spheres of community action." Excerpted from "Baker College Hell-O Week Book," 1997
The Rice Design Alliance, established in 1973, is a nonprofit educational organization dedicated to increasing greater public awareness of architecture, design and the environment. By sponsoring lectures seminars, symposiums, exhibits and tours, RDA involves the general public in issues related to the design of public spaces, parks, office buildings, retail centers and residential neighborhoods. Its biannual journal, Cite: The Architecture and Design Review of Houston, addresses design issues in the greater Houston area. Membership in RDA is open to the general public. Excerpted from "Think Big," the 1990 gala invitation from RDA.
Horatio Gouverneur Wright was born March 6, 1820, in Clinton, Connecticut. He graduated from the United States Military Academy in 1841, was commissioned a second lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers, and directed engineering projects in Florida for ten years. He rose to first lieutenant and in 1855 to captain, and assisted the chief engineer in Washington, D.C., until 1861.
In September 1861, five months after the Civil War broke out, Wright became brigadier general of volunteers and began to lead combat forces, in which capacity he continued until the end of the war. After leading expeditions to Florida and South Carolina, in May 1863 he was given command of the 1st Division of the VI Corps of the Army of the Potomac, and a year later took command of the VI Corps; he then became major general of volunteers, participated in every battle of the Wilderness campaign, and in July 1864 was sent hurriedly to Washington, where he helped repel a Confederate raid; from August to December 1864 he fought under Sheridan in the Shenandoah Valley campaign. He returned to the Army of the Potomac with the VI Corps in early 1865 and seems to have been present at the siege of Richmond when the letter of February 12th was written.
After the Civil War ended, Wright commanded the Department of Texas for a time, participated in important engineering projects around the country, and was promoted to brigadier general in the regular army and chief of engineers in 1879. He retired in 1884 and died July 2, 1899, at Washington, D.C. He was buried in the Arlington National Cemetery, survived by his wife, the former Louisa M. Bradford, and two daughters.
John Adams Dix was born July 24, 1798, in New Hampshire. He received a classical education and then served in the army, rising to the rank of major. He went on to study law, became an attorney, and in 1826 married Catharine Morgan. They eventually had seven children. Dix resigned from the army and moved to New York State, where he managed family properties and entered politics, serving in a number of positions. In 1845, he was elected to fill a term in the United States Senate, where he participated in international affairs. Dix later served briefly as postmaster and then as secretary of the treasury and in 1861 was commissioned major-general by President Lincoln, serving during the Civil War in administrative positions, including as head of the Department of Maryland. After the war he became minister to France from 1866-69 and then withdrew from political life for a time, serving as president of two railroads and practicing law in New York City. In 1872, Dix was elected governor of New York and served one term. He retired, but served in various civic activities. Dix was also the author of several books. He died April 21, 1879 in New York City.
Charles LeStrange of the British Royal Navy (of unknown rank but likely an officer, perhaps the navigator) kept the daily logbook for the British warship H.M.S. Princess Royal while on a peacetime cruise (1864-1866) from Plymouth to Shanghai and Yokohama. He recorded the ship's position on tracking charts fastened into the book, and was perhaps the creator of a number of drawings in the book illustrating topographical features and fortifications along various coastlines passed. His penmanship and evident skill indicate a person of some education and naval experience but further details about his life are unknown.
Nothing is known about Mrs. E. H. Wright, nor can a firm identity be established for an E. H. Wright to whom she might have been married (although two E. Wrights are cited on lists of Union officers who served during the Civil War). Since the Union Army's cause had become more hopeful by early 1864, perhaps this spurred Mrs. Wright's interest in obtaining mementos from military leaders who had helped in turning the course of the war.
Waldo Greene was born ca. 1906 and died in 1994. At age seventeen he was a student of Thornton Wilder, then a French teacher at an exclusive prep school in New Jersey. Greene, a seventeen year old student at the time Wilder taught him, came to Texas after World War II, married and remained in the Rio Grande Valley.
Greene spent much of his life seeking details about his former teacher's life and collecting memorabilia about him. He corresponded with Wilder and Wilder's sister after Wilder's death.
Mention of Moreau Forrest as candidate for Mayor of Houston can be found in the folder on George Fisher in the Muir papers (collection #MS 17).
Libby Prison (in which the letter in this collection was written) was a prison in Richmond, Virginia for Union captives, noted for the harsh conditions under which its inmates lived, both from periodic overcrowding and from the growing shortage of provisions available in Richmond for civilians and inmates alike as the war progressed and fresh waves of Union prisoners continued to pour in. The prison was housed in three brick buildings (formerly part of a tobacco factory), one building of which had been leased in 1854 by Captain Luther Libby for his company, L. Libby & Sons, Ship Chandlers; the prison received its name from the company's sign, left behind after the buildings were hastily commandeered for prison and hospital use shortly after the Battle of First Manassas (Bull Run) of July 21, 1861.
According to material included by the donors and inserted at the end of the first journal, Samuel Storrow was born in Boston on July 24, 1843, the youngest son of Charles S. and Lydia Calot (Jackson) Storrow. He entered Harvard in July 1860, later leaving to enter military service in the 44th Regiment of the Massachusetts Volunteer Militia Infantry, where he served as a corporal from September 20, 1862 to June 18, 1863. He re-entered Harvard in September 1863, graduated July 20, 1864, was commissioned a 2nd lieutenant on September 22, 1864, and assigned to the 2nd Regiment of the Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, then stationed in Atlanta. Storrow was promoted to 1st lieutenant January 16, 1865 while on the staff of Brig. Gen. William Cogswell, but was killed March 16th at the Battle of Avorysboro, North Carolina.
According to entries in his diary, John C. Crosby enlisted for military service in the Union army during the Civil War on September 9, 1861, leaving for Baltimore shortly afterward to serve in the Seventh Maine Regiment, evidently as a hospital orderly. His last entry during the period of his military service was on August 11, 1862, and by 1865 his entries indicate that he was engaged in farm work.
Carl MacDowell began working at Rice University in June 1967 and continued for 32 years. He began as assistant to William Gordon, dean of Science and Engineering. In 1976 he was chosen to become assistant to the president. His tenure in that position lasted through two presidents – Norman Hackerman (1970-85), George Rupp (1985-93) and part of a third, Malcolm Gillis (1993-2004). MacDowell was highly regarded by all who knew and worked with him. Malcolm Gillis said of MacDowell, "Carl gained the trust of generations of students, faculty, and board members, and above all, the presidents he served." His institutional knowledge was essential to managing the school. His love of the school was always apparent. MacDowell earned the trust of everyone who worked with him and knew that he would do the best job he could.
MacDowell retired in January 2000. Mark Scheid replaced him as assistant to the president after working with him in a transitional period.
Dr. Carey Croneis was born in 1901 in Bucyrus, Ohio, and received his B.S. degree from Denison University in 1922, followed by an M.S. in Geology from the University of Kansas in 1923, and a Ph.D. from Harvard University in 1928. He was an instructor at Radcliffe and lecturer at Wellesley in 1927-1928; assistant and then full professor at the University of Chicago, 1928-1944; and a member of the National Defense Research Council, 1942-1944. He then served as President of Beloit College from 1944 until he came to Rice.
Dr. Carey Croneis came to Rice (then Institute) in 1954 as Provost, and also as Harry Carothers Wiess Professor of Geology, charged with designing and organizing a Department of Geology at Rice. He served as Provost until 1960 and at that time assumed the additional responsibilities of Acting President following Pres. William V. Houston's resignation due to ill health. He served in both capacities until the appointment of Kenneth Sanborn Pitzer as President in July 1961. In that year, Dr. Croneis was named Chancellor, and held that position until his retirement in 1970. Dr. Croneis was named Wiess Professor Emeritus of Geology and Chancellor Emeritus. He died in January 1972.
When the Beer-Bike race first began in 1957, it was a competition between two residential colleges, run on the campus inner loop, with the victorious college receiving a keg of beer from the loser. At that time, the people who rode the bikes were the same as those who chugged the beer. The Beer-Bike race of today is more of an intercollege bike race where 10 non-riding people chug between riders.
In the early days, riders and drinkers worked out for only a couple of days before the race, just to make the team and get in the spirit of things. The beer drinkers opened the taps of their cans with a standard opener and the riders rode "English Bikes." The crowd, which numbered only a few friends, stood anywhere they pleased to view the action. In those days, the race was a test of mechanical durability as well as speed, for the same bike was used for the whole race. This involved ripping the incoming rider off his speeding machine, slapping on a fresh rider, and casting him out in front of the pit. The spent rider was then scooped up and removed from the course. During this time, the beer drinkers knocked off their refreshments in the living-room time of six or seven seconds. High speed was not necessary because of the time involved in changing riders.
In, 1968, Beer-Bike moved to the Rice Stadium. The first women's race took place in 1972 when Brown and Jones Colleges competed. In 1976, the seed of the parade tradition was planted when Sid Richardson College entered with torches, followed by a brass band playing the theme for the Olympic Games. Alumni participated in the first alumni race in 1982. In 1987, when the drinking age changed from 18 to 21, water was offered at Beer-Bike for the first time to quench underage students' thirst.
Today, technology dominates the race. Nearly all the bikes are of the ten-speed type ridden in the Tour de France (some machines costing as much as $600). The beer drinkers have special 14 oz. "tall boy" cans with mouthpieces custom fitted and thoroughly tested. Several bikers are used throughout the race with the gears matched to the rider's style of riding. The speed of the beer team now counts heavily since the outgoing rider is mounted and ready to go before the incoming rider reaches the pit.
College and bike teams practice for months ahead of the race, and making the team of 10, or at least securing a spot as an alternate, is a sought-after goal for many college members. Parade coordinators plan weeks in advance to devise an innovative parade float, or theme song, or chant, or mode of transportation to the track on race day. Team participants seek financial sponsors, design team and college t-shirts, work to determine the optimal chug technique, and hold coordination practices to ensure that a biker starts riding precisely as the chugger finishes. Every year race coordinators hold meetings to choose team colors, to schedule practice races, and to revise or change rules.
Excerpted from "Sallyport," April-May 1992, "Thresher," April 7, 2000, and "The Beer Bike Race," by Jim Llamas, Captain.
Neal Lane served as Provost of Rice University from 1986-1993. He joined the Rice Physics Department in 1966 and was made full professor in 1972. He was made chairman of the department in 1977. While chair, Lane spent 1979-80 serving as director of the division of physics at the NSF. He left Rice in 1984 to become Chancellor of the University of Colorado at Colorado Springs. He then returned to Rice to take on the job pf Provost.
In 1993, Lane was nominated by President Clinton as Director of the NSF and in 1998, he was nominated by President Clinton to be his new presidential science and technology advisor.
Dr. Lane, assistant to the president of the United States for science and technology, director of the U.S. Office of Science and Technology Policy, and former director of the national Science Foundation, rejoined the faculty at Rice University in Spring 2001.
Lane, a specialist in atomic physics, earned his undergraduate and graduate degrees, including his Ph.D., from the University of Oklahoma in the early 1960's.
William E. Gordon's appointment as provost and vice president of Rice University began July 1, 1980. He retired July 1, 1985, although he continued to serve as provost until his replacement reported to work in spring 1986.
Gordon came to Rice from Cornell University in 1966 and taught space physics and astronomy, as well as electrical engineering, during his 19 years on the Rice faculty. Prior to his becoming provost and vice president in 1980, he served as dean of natural sciences (1975-80) and dean of science and engineering (1966-75).
He attained international prominence through his work on the Arecibo Ionospheric Observatory in Puerto Rico, a project he conceived, planned and directed during the first years after its completion, 1960-65. It is the world's largest radar-radio-telescope, sometimes described as earth's ear turned to outer space.
Recipient of numerous honors and awards, Dr. Gordon had the rare distinction of being a member of both the National Academy of Sciences and National Academy of Engineering. He was a fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and the American Geophysical Union, and past president of the International Union of Radio Science (1981-84).
Excerpted from press release of Rice University Information Services 2/22/1985; 4/2/1980.
James Kinsey, Dean of Rice University's Wiess School of Natural Sciences, was named interim provost by university president Malcolm Gillis in July 1993. The provost position was vacated by Neal Lane when he left Rice to become director of the National Science Foundation.
Kinsey came to Rice in 1988 as dean of Wiess School after 25 years at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology as a chemistry professor. He also served as Chairman of MIT's chemistry department for five years during his tenure.
Excerpted from Rice University News Release, July 23, 1993.
David Auston was named provost by university president Malcolm Gillis in August 1994. He was Columbia's dean of engineering and applied science and the Morris and Alma Schapiro Professor of Engineering. He was member of both the National Academy of Sciences and the National Academy of Engineering. He earned his undergraduate and master's degree from the University of Toronto and his Ph.D. from the University of California at Berkeley.
Excerpted from Rice University News Release, May 19, 1994.
In the early 1900's, university professors were limited in what they could teach and write. Many outspoken professors lost their jobs because of their views. The American Association of University Professors was born when Arthur O. Lovejoy, a philosopher at Johns Hopkins, and John Dewey organized a meeting at Johns Hopkins University in 1915 to form an organization to ensure academic freedom for faculty members. The mission of AAUP is to advance academic freedom and shared governance, to define fundamental professional values and standards for higher education, and to ensure higher education's contribution to the common good. AAUP is the leading organization primarily dedicated to protecting the academic freedom of professors. Faculty members turn to AAUP for assistance in the thousands each year. Membership in the national organization is open to all faculty, librarians, and academic professionals at two- and four-year accredited public and private colleges and universities. Membership as of 2004 is about 45,000, with over 500 local campus chapters and 39 state organizations. Leadership is provided by bi-annually elected national officers drawn from colleges and universities throughout the country. The Association is governed by an elected national Council that meets twice a year, and by an Executive Committee that meets four times a year.
Excerpted from http://www.aaup.org/aboutaaup/description.htm and http://www.aaup.org/aboutaaup/hist.htm, [accessed June 10,2004].
Born in Birmingham, AL, Barnes' early journalistic experience was as assistant editor of her college newspaper at Birmingham-Southern College. She worked on the Birmingham News newspaper as a reporter and as Washington correspondent, and continued as correspondent for the Birmingham Age-Herald and the London Daily Mirror. She was accredited to the Senate and House Press Galleries and White House, and also as United Nations correspondent.
Barnes joined the Houston Post in 1947 as reporter and columnist, and added foreign news editor and assistant editor to her credentials. She served as writing lecturer and instructor for University of Houston and Rice University. She is the recipient of numerous awards from a variety of respected Texas groups, and is well known for her books Public Manners, A Happy Worldly Abode, and Houston, the Unknown City 1836-1936.
Ms. Barnes passed away on December 13, 2005, in Houston, Texas.
Capt. James A. Baker was a prominent attorney in the law firm of Baker, Botts & Baker, who represented many wealthy citizens, one of whom was William Marsh Rice, founder of Rice University. In 1891, Baker was made a member of the Rice Institute Board of Trustees and eventually became Chairman of the Board. After Rices death in 1900, a suspicious Capt. Baker alerted authorities to the possibility of foul play. Because of his efforts, investigators discovered that Rice was in fact murdered by an associate.
As Chairman of the Board, Baker contributed to the establishment of Rice University an elite educational institution. Because of his business savvy, the Rice endowment was more than doubled in the early years of the university. Mr. Baker served as Chairman until his death on Aug. 2, 1941. His son, James A. Baker, Jr., served in World War II, became a lawyer in the family firm and continued the Baker commitment to Rice.
James A. Baker III., Capt. Bakers grandson, was born in 1930 to the wealthy Baker family and attended Princeton University. He joined the military and spent two years as a marine lieutenant. After his stint in the military, Baker attended University of Texas School of Law and began a career as a lawyer which lasted until his wifes death in 1970. At the urging of his friend George H. W. Bush, Baker ran for the Senate. He lost the Senate race, but went on to serve as chief of staff and Secretary of the Treasury in President Ronald Reagans administration and as Secretary of State under George Bush. He has had a hand in the management of every Republican campaign for president from 1976 to 1992. After his career in politics Baker returned to working as an attorney and became a member Baker Botts law firm.
On June 2, 1992, Dr. Richard J. Stoll, Director for the Center for the Study of Institutions and Values, as well as a professor of Political Science, sent a memo to then Rice President George Rupp, suggesting that Rice approach then Secretary of State James A. Baker III for the beginnings of a "James Baker Institute". Rupp responded favorably to Stoll's memo and thus the Baker Institute was born. On March 31, 1993, Secretary Baker gave a speech accepting Rice's offer of an Institute in his honor, laying down his ideas on the Baker Institute. In this speech, entitled Ideas Into Action, in which he charged the Baker Institute to "draw together statesmen, scholars and students... and... build a bridge between the world of ideas and the world of action..." These founding words were later used as the building stones for the external architecture of the building.
The Honorable James A. Baker, III would later served on the Rice Board of Trustees from 1993 to the present day, currently acting as Trustee Emeretus.
Capt. James A. Baker was a prominent attorney in the law firm of Baker, Botts & Baker, who represented many wealthy citizens, one of whom was William Marsh Rice, founder of Rice University. In 1891, Baker was made a member of the Rice Institute Board of Trustees and eventually became Chairman of the Board. After Rice's death in 1900, a suspicious Capt. Baker alerted authorities to the possibility of foul play. Because of his efforts, investigators discovered that Rice was in fact murdered by an associate.
As Chairman of the Board, Baker contributed to the establishment of Rice University an elite educational institution. Because of his business savvy, the Rice endowment was more than doubled in the early years of the university. Mr. Baker served as Chairman until his death on Aug. 2, 1941. His son, James A. Baker, Jr., served in World War II, became a lawyer in the family firm and continued the Baker commitment to Rice.
James A. Baker III., Capt. Baker's grandson, was born in 1930 to the wealthy Baker family and attended Princeton University. He joined the military and spent two years as a marine lieutenant. After his stint in the military, Baker attended University of Texas School of Law and began a career as a lawyer which lasted until his wife's death in 1970. At the urging of his friend George H. W. Bush, Baker ran for the Senate. He lost the Senate race, but went on to serve as chief of staff and Secretary of the Treasury in President Ronald Reagan's administration and as Secretary of State under George Bush. He has had a hand in the management of every Republican campaign for president from 1976 to 1992. After his career in politics Baker returned to working as an attorney and became a member Baker Botts law firm.
On June 2, 1992, Dr. Richard J. Stoll, Director for the Center for the Study of Institutions and Values, as well as a professor of Political Science, sent a memo to then Rice President George Rupp, suggesting that Rice approach then Secretary of State James A. Baker III for the beginnings of a "James Baker Institute". Rupp responded favorably to Stoll's memo and thus the Baker Institute was born. On March 31, 1993, Secretary Baker gave a speech accepting Rice's offer of an Institute in his honor, laying down his ideas on the Baker Institute. In this speech, entitled Ideas Into Action, in which he charged the Baker Institute to "draw together statesmen, scholars and students... and... build a bridge between the world of ideas and the world of action..." These founding words were later used as the building stones for the external architecture of the building.
The Honorable James A. Baker, III would later served on the Rice Board of Trustees from 1993 to the present day, currently acting as Trustee Emeretus.
Paul Cooper (1926-96), composer-in-residence and Lynette Autrey Professor of Music at Rice University, was internationally known as a composer, music critic, author and teacher. He earned degrees from the University of Southern California and studied at the Conservatoire Nationale and the Sorbonne in Paris, and made his professional debut in 1953 with the Los Angeles Philharmonic. He was a music critic in Los Angeles and Ann Arbor, MI and taught at the University of Michigan (1955-68) and the College-Conservatory of Music at the University of Cincinnati before joining the Rice faculty in 1974. Cooper held guest professorships in Stockholm and Copenhagen. He received Fulbright and Guggenheim Fellowships, grants from the National Endowment for the Arts, Ford, Rockefeller and Rackham Foundations and the National Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters, and 25 consecutive ASCAP awards beginning in 1966. He served as cultural representative to Yugoslavia for the US State Department in 1965, and in 1976 began his involvement with the Music Teachers National Association. He served on the boards of Meet-the-Composer [Texas], Houston Composers Alliance, Voices of Change, Texas Composers Forum, and Phi Beta Kappa Alumni of Houston. Cooper was married to the former Christiane Ebert, a noted poet with whom he collaborated on oratorios, song cycles, instrumentals and chamber works. They have two children.
Judge Harris Masterson, the youngest son of Thomas Gilbert and Christina Masterson, was born in Brazoria County on June 30, 1856. His father, a lawyer, judge, and large landowner in Brazoria County, migrated to Texas from Nashville, Tennessee. His mother also studied law and came from Tennessee where her grandfather had been a prominent judge and governor. Harris and all five of his brothers received their legal education from her. Of the six, four entered into active legal practice, and all of them served as judges at one time during their careers.
Harris Masterson began his legal career in Brazoria County. Although not much is known about Masterson's early career in Brazoria or his terms as judge, it seems from papers and correspondence in the collection that he became involved in land litigation early in his career. This emphasis began with his interests in his father's large holdings in Brazoria County. In June 1880, Harris Masterson married Sallie Stewart Turner, by whom he had five children, of whom only three lived beyond infancy. A short time after his wife's death in January of 1894, the Judge moved his legal practice to Houston.
From the extensive correspondence and numerous deeds in these papers, it seems Masterson dealt largely with land litigation and investments in Harris and surrounding counties, including Brazoria, Firt Bend, Galveston, Hardin, and Jefferson Counties. His land interests extended into several East Texas and Louisiana lumber companies. Since he owned so much coastal land, Spindletop and the discovery of oil opened a new field of business for Masterson. He joined with other prominent landowners in the coastal area to form small oil companies for drilling. He also made a great deal of money by leasing out his land for drilling. He became a member of the Hogg-Swayne syndicate participating in and contributing to their numerous drilling operations, as well as independently drilling with Frank Andrews and Joseph S. Cullinan. Most of the oil drilled on Masterson's land was sold to the Gulf Oil & Pipeline Company, the Sun Pipeline Company, and other large oil companies.
Masterson set up several land corporations with his brother A.R. Masterson and son Neill. Two of these were the Texas Town Lot & Improvement Company and the Houston Town Lot & Improvement Company. Although these companies on occasion contracted to build houses on the land they sold, their primary function was to buy large tracts of land and break them into smaller lots. Much of this land was sold to what would today be called the middle and lower class people of Houston. These sales then were usually financed by Harris Masterson so that in case of default, the land reverted back to the Mastersons. Through one of these companies Masterson apparently acquired some land which the owners had been unwilling to sell to the newly founded Rice Institute.
Masterson also speculated in land in Cameron County and other parts of the Rio Grande Valley which only needed irrigation to become agriculturally productive. Not coincidentally, he also bought stock in various irrigation companies. Among these were the Harlingen Land & Water Company and the La Feria Land & Water Company. Although these companies were badly mismanaged by the local operators and eventually went bankrupt, they seemed to have opened up the speculation and search for water to make this area productive. Other investments for which there are records in these papers include coal mines in West Texas, local railroads, sugar crops, cattle and ranching.
Judge Harris Masterson was a shrewd businessman who kept his wealth spread across his various investments. His employed the services of a secretary as well as his son Neill and son-in-law Elliott Cage to help him look after and protect his investments. Neill Masterson continued to care for the investments after the death of Judge Masterson in July 1900.
Source: "The Masterson Family Papers", The Flyleaf' Vol. 24, No. 3, October 1974. Friends of Fondren Library, Rice University, Houston TX. By Beth Wray, Manuscript Curator, Woodson Research Center.
Jared Ellison Groce (1782-1839), planter, public official and the wealthiest settler in Stephen F. Austin's colony, was born in Halifax County, VA, on October 12, 1782, the son of Jared Ellison and Sarah (Sheppard) Groce. In 1802 he moved to South Carolina, where he acquired property and married Mary Ann Waller, daughter of Texas pioneer Leonard Waller, on August 29, 1804. Later that year he moved to Lincoln County, Georgia, where he purchased a large estate. There he became a delegaate to the convention that drafted the Georgia constitution. After his wife's death in 1814, Groce moved to Alabama and established a settlement known as Fort Groce. Austin's colonization scheme drew him to Texas in 1821.
Groce reached the Brazos River in January 1822. He constructed a homestead, which soon became known as Bernardo Plantation, on the east bank four miles south of the site of present-day Hempstead. The Mexican government granted him title to ten leagues of land in 1824, which was soon augmented with other land. In 1822 he cultivated the first possible cotton crop in the Austin colony and in 1825 constructed one of the earliest gins in Texas on the Brazos River. He resided on his plantation until 1833, when the malarial environment compelled him to divide his estate among his children and move to Wallace Prairie. There on the east bank of the Brazos he constructed his home known as Groce's Retreat. He was selected as a delegate from the District of Viesca (later Milam County) to the Convention of 1832, where he opposed the resolution seeking independence for Texas. He espoused revolution but outfitted men for service in the Texas Army. The draft of the Texas Declaration of Independence was completed at Groce's Retreat and was sent to Washington-on-the-Brazos for ratification. Between March 18 and 21, 1836, Groce's Retreat served as the temporary capital of the Republic of Texas. After the Battle of San Jacinto in April, 1836, Groce's Retreat was considered as a site for the permanent capital of the republic.
Groce and his first wife had three sons and a daughter. In 1814 Groce married Ann Waller, Mary's sister, and they had two additional children. Ann died in 1818; Groce died in 1839 and was buried at Bernardo.
Leonard Waller Groce (1806-1873), oldest son of Mary Ann (Waller) and Jared E. Groce, was born in Lincoln County, Georgia, on September 27, 1806. He was attending school in Montgomery, Alabama, when his father moved the family to the Brazos River area of Texas, where he received title to lands from Stephen F. Austin in 1824. Leonard received his education in Augusta, Georgia, and in 1825 took over responsibility for much of his father's business. Leonard brought the first cotton gin to Texas and in 1830, with his brother Jared E. Groce, Jr. and a partner, went into the cotton trade. On November 17, 1831 he married Courtney Ann Fulton and lived at Bernardo, which they inherited in 1835 from Groce, Sr.
Leonard Groce was a member of the local militia at San Felipe de Austin, a delegate to the Convention of 1833, and a commissioned colonel in the Texas army. He supplied corn and beef for the army during the Texas Revolution, and saw the "Twin Sisters" cannons mounted at Bernardo on April 11, 1836. In 1840 Leonard Groce received his license to practice law, but remained with cotton production. Later on in life he was a trustee of the Chappell Hill Male and Female Institute.
In 1853 he moved his family of eleven children to Liendo Plantation which was the site of a Confederate recruiting station, prisoner of war camp during the Civil War, and troop encampment during Reconstruction. Groce sold his plantations and remained in Texas. The purchasers defaulted on the payments, but Groce was caught in the economic debacle of southern Reconstruction and declared bankruptcy in 1868. He died at Liendo on August 29, 1873.
Excerpted from "The New Handbook of Texas," 1996
The Sixth Kentucky, a Union Army regiment, was organized in late 1861 with volunteers that came principally from Henry, Jefferson, Kenton, Oldham and Shelby counties. Anderson, Campbell, Fayette, Hardin, Madison, Spencer, Trimble and Woodford counties were also represented, with about 60 men from southern Indiana. Four of the Sixth Kentucky's ten companies were composed principally of German-born residents of Louisville. The Sixth Kentucky was a member of Colonel (later Brigadier General) William B. Hazen's brigade. Hazen's brigade served in the Army of the Ohio and its successor, the Army of the Cumberland. The regiment fought at Shiloh, Stones River, Chickamauga, Brown's Ferry, Orchard Knob, Missionary Ridge, and in the four-month-long Atlanta Campaign. The Sixth Kentucky was at Perryville on the day of the battle, but its division was not called into the fray. However, the Sixth was instrumental in pushing Confederate forces out of Kentucky with frequent skirmishes with Braxton Bragg's rear guard.
The survivors of the three years of heavy service were mustered out in late 1864. Over 110 of its men were killed or mortally wounded. Almost 90 died from disease and illnesses caused by their wounds. By the end of the regiment's three years of service, its rolls had been reduced from approximately 900 men to about 300.
Excerpted from a "Brief History of the Sixth Kentucky Volunteer Infantry Regiment (Union)" by Joe Reinhart.
Thomas Lindsey Blayney was born in Lebanon, Kentucky, on December 3, 1874. He spent his early childhood in Albany, New York, and after the death of his mother in 1881 moved with his father and younger brother to Frankfort, Kentucky, where his father served as a Presbyterian minister. Blayney graduated from Centre College in Danville, Kentucky, in 1894, and went on to Europe for graduate studies, where he studied philology and comparative literature at Heidelberg University and received M.A. and Ph.D. degrees with honor in 1904.
In 1912 he became one of the founding faculty members of the newly-established Rice Institute in Houston, Texas (later Rice University). During his twelve years on the faculty there (1912-1924), Blayney was also much involved in the expanding civic and cultural life of Houston, particularly in the establishment of what was to become Houston's Museum of Fine Arts, and in activities as a participant and lecturer in various community organizations. He was among the first faculty members at Rice to volunteer for military service during World War I and served from 1917 to 1919, during which time he was awarded the French Croix de Guerre among other honors. He returned to Rice after the war but left in 1924 to become president of Texas State Women's College.
In 1926 he went on to become dean of Carleton College in Northfield, Minnesota, serving in this capacity until his retirement in 1946. His first wife, Gertrude South Blayney, died in 1945; they had two sons, James M. Blayney and Lindsey Blayney, Jr. He later married Ida Walz, and after his retirement moved to Marine-on-St.-Croix, Minnesota, where he died March 13, 1971.
James V Allred, Texas jurist, Attorney General (1930-1934) and Governor (1934-38), was born in Bowie, Texas, on March 29, 1899 and died 1959.
For further biographical information, visit "ALLRED, JAMES BURR V." The Handbook of Texas Online.
Lawrence Sullivan (Sul) Ross (1838-1898) was a soldier, statesman, and university president, and Governor from 1886-1991. For further biographical information, see "ROSS, LAWRENCE SULLIVAN [SUL]." The Handbook of Texas Online.
Benjamin N. "Woody" Woodson was born in Altoona, Kansas. His family moved often during his childhood, and Woodson graduated high school in Omaha, Nebraska. He then went to work for the Union Pacific Railroad as a typist, and became Nebraska's champion typist while still in his teens. At 19, he began his insurance career as a stenographer for Bankers Reserve Life, a small company in Omaha, and quickly became an agent.
In 1928, Woodson moved to Mutual Trust in Chicago, where he spent eight years rising through the ranks to regional director. During this time, he met his first wife, the late Grace Cook. The couple were married in 1930.
Continuing to expand his career, Woodson became the founder and president of one trade association and trustee of another, developing training methods and spreading them across the nation. The Woodsons relocated to New York City, and in 1953, the founder of American General, Gus Wortham, initiated a conversation with Woodson which resulted in Woodson taking the role of President of American General and moving to Houston, Texas in July 1953.
As president of the then small company which only wrote policies in Texas, Woodson helped launch an aggressive acquisition plan. The company grew from $48 million in assets to $5.3 billion and was listed in "Fortune Magazine" as one of the fifty largest financial service companies. In 1972, Woodson succeeded Gus Wortham as the company's second chairman of the board and chief executive officer. In 1978, he retired, but kept an office went to work selling insurance policies for an additional 15 years.
In 1981, Woodson's wife, Grace, died after heart surgery. Woodson remarried Audrey Watson, an old friend whose husband had recently passed away. The two couples had known each other since their days in Chicago, fifty years before.
Woodson gave back to the Houston community very generously, donating funds to build the "Houston Post" building (currently the "Houston Chronicle" building at Hwy 59 and Loop 610), and working with many other Houston luminaries including Gus Wortham and Bill Hobby to faciliate the city's cultural growth. He also served as a regent for the University of Houston, as director for the Society for the Performing Arts, chairman of Houston's Chamber of Commerce, and founded Houston's Forum Club. He also served on the board of governors for Rice University, and also contributed financially to Rice during his lifetime and through his estate. The Woodson Research Center is named in honor of Benjamin N. Woodson's very kind support.
Woodson died July 17, 2001 In Houston.
Sources: Obituaries in "Houston Chronicle," July 18, 2001.
John Jervis, born January 9, 1735 in Meaford, received his schooling at Burton-on-Trent and Greenwich. In 1748 he entered naval service as an able seaman and was promoted to Lieutenant in 1755 on completion of his six years service. By September 1787 he had been promoted to Rear Admiral, and he became full Admiral in July 1795. Following a defeat of the Spanish fleet in early 1797, Jervis was appointed as Earl of St. Vincent. In 1801 St. Vincent accepted the position of First Lord of the Admiralty which he occupied until 1806 when he returned briefly to sea duty before retiring in 1807. He was promoted to Admiral of the Fleet in 1821. Jervis was awarded the K. B. in 1782 and in 1783 entered Parliament as member for Launceston. St. Vincent died March 14, 1823.
The S.S. Schroon of American registry (Philadelphia), a sea-going vessel involved in cargo transport, was in German waters near Bremerhaven on February 15, 1923 when it came upon the S.S. West Hematite grounded in the Weser River. In trying to free the S.S. West Hematite, the S.S. Schroon grounded itself incurring damages severe enough to require dry-docking.
This letter was written by John Churchill (John, Marquis of Blandford) 1690-1703, who was the son of the first Duke of Marlborough. The recipient, Allan Bathurst, first Earl Bathurst (1684–1775) was later to represent Cirencester in parliament from May 1705 until January 1712, when he was created Baron Bathurst, being one of the twelve tory gentlemen who were raised to the peerage at the same time. He become treasurer to the Prince of Wales in 1757.
The Reinermann family has a long relationship with Rice University, and income from the John Reinermann tract of land in Harris County currently provides scholarship funding for many Rice students.
This certificate of limited partnership served the purpose of setting up firm of "R.J. French", "for purchase and sale of goods, wares, and merchandise of all sorts, buying and selling cotton and other produce in trade, barter, or on commission..." from July 1, 1852 to July 1, 1857. The agreement was between general partner Richard J. French of Washington County, Texas, and special partners William M. Rice of Houston and Ebenezer B. Nichols of Galveston.
William M. Rice founded the Rice Institute with funds earned through extensive trade efforts and other investments before his death in 1900.
Stephen K. Swift (1903-1979) was a diplomat-journalist, author, editor and the founder of the Austrian Year Book project at Rice University. He was a native of Hungary, moved to the United States in 1926, eventually becoming a citizen. He was a resident of Houston since 1958. Swift donated a large collection of bound volumes relating to Austro-Hungarian history to the Fondren Library in 1968, which also included the typescripts found in this collection.
In addition to publishing this translation of Nagy's "The Struggle Behind the Iron Curtain," Swift wrote "The Cardinal's Story," a report of the Mindszenty persecutions, also published by MacMillan.
Norman Hackerman served as Rice Univerity's fourth President from 1970 - 1985, after serving 25 years at the University of Texas. Immediately preceeding Hackerman was Acting President Frank Vandiver (1969-1970), who succeeded Kenneth Sanborn Pitzer.
During his tenure at Rice, the university launched the Jeese H. Jones Graduate School of Administration, and the Shepherd School of Music, as well as establishing separate engineering and social sciences schools, and new biochemistry, linguistics, and computer science departments. The endowment was significantly increased by his fundraising efforts, and the residential college system went co-ed under his approval.
Controversy touched his presidency in the early 1980s, when Rice hired Watson Brown as head football coach at a high salary, bringing many complaints from academic-oriented students and faculty. Hackerman reportedly considered the criticism a "commentary on society, not on [himself]".
Hackerman, a chemist, was born in Baltimore, MD in 1912, and graduated with bachelor's (1932) and doctoral (1935) degrees from Johns Hopkins University. He joined the University of Texas faculty as an assistant professor in 1945, and worked his way up through the academic ladder to become President in 1967.
Julian Sorell Huxley (b. June 22, 1887, d. February 14, 1975) was a lecturer in Zoology at Oxford (1910-1912), Research Associate and later Assistant Professor of Biology at Rice Institute (1913-1916),and fought in World War I before returning to Oxford in 1919, where he conducted the famous axolotl experiments and participated in the university's expedition to Spitsbergen. He became Professor of Zoology at King's College, University of London in 1925, but resigned his position in 1927 to collaborate on what would become The Science of Life with H.G. Wells. He was Fullerian Professor of Physiology in the Royal Institution (1927-1929) while working with Wells, however after 1929 he held no academic position. For ten years he was a private person working to advance his ideas about the biological sciences not as a researcher nor as a teacher, but as a writer on scientific developments and their relationship to contemporary social issues.
From 1935-1942 he served as Secretary of the Zoological Society of London, allowing him to encourage solid research on animal behavior while introducing innovative methods for implementing his vision of the zoo as an educational institution. He continued his work as a writer and lecturer and was known throughout war-time Britain for his participation as a panel member of the BBC Brains Trust program. After World War II he helped form Unesco, serving as the organization's first Director-General (1946-1948). Here he set out a program cosmopolitan in vision, one concerned with mankind in relationship with nature and with its past, one in which art and science were equally valued. He also began to articulate fully the concerns which would occupy the later years of his life: the relation of overpopulation to poverty and ignorance, the necessity for the conservation of wilderness and wildlife, and the importance of the renunciation of parochial views on religion and politics. The remainder of his life was spent traveling, lecturing and writing in support of the causes to which he was devoted. Throughout his long career, he contributed significantly to the fields of ethology, ecology and cancer research, and acted as a powerful proponent of neo-Darwinism.
Kenneth Mackenzie Clark (b. July 13, 1903, d. May 21, 1983) was a British art historian and authority on Italian Renaissance art. After working, off and on throughout 1925 to 1927, with Bernard Berenson in Florence, Clark served as keeper of the Department of Fine Art at Ashmolean Museum in Oxford (1931-1934), Director of the National Gallery in London (1934-1945), Slade Professor at Oxford (1945-1950, 1961-1962), and Chairman of the Arts Council of Great Britain (1955-1960). He is also known for the television series he helped create beginning in 1966, Civilisation, which showed Clark traveling Europe to visit and discuss classic works like Michelangelo's David and works by Rembrandt, among others.
The Sallyport was first published in 1945 and is still published today. It is the longest running Rice publication and serves as a record of Rice people, events, trends and discoveries. In 2008 the name changed to Rice Magazine. It is published by the Office of Public Affairs of Rice University and is sent to university alumni, faculty, staff, graduate students, parents of undergraduates and friends of the university.
LOVETT, EDGAR ODELL (1871-1957). Edgar Odell Lovett, mathematics professor and president of Rice Institute (now Rice University), was born in Shreve, Ohio, on April 14, 1871, the son of Zephania and Maria Elizabeth (Spreng) Lovett. After graduating from Shreve High School he entered Bethany College, Bethany, West Virginia, where he graduated in 1890 at the age of nineteen. From 1890 until 1892 he was professor of mathematics at West Kentucky College; in 1892 he became an instructor at the University of Virginia, where he continued his studies and received the degrees of M.A. and Ph.D. in 1895. The following year he studied in Europe at the universities of Christiana and Leipzig; he received M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the latter in 1896. In 1897 Lovett lectured at Johns Hopkins University and the universities of Virginia and Chicago. In September of that year he became instructor in mathematics at Princeton University. He was promoted to assistant professor of mathematics in 1898 and from 1900 to 1905 held the rank of professor. From 1905 to 1908 he was both professor and head of the Department of Mathematics and Astronomy at Princeton.
In 1907 he was asked to head Rice Institute, then being planned at Houston; he was recommended for the post by Woodrow Wilson, then president of Princeton. He accepted in 1908, moved to Houston, and was formally inaugurated as the first president of the institute on October 12, 1912; he continued in this capacity until his retirement on March 1, 1946. Thereafter, he was associated with Rice as president emeritus, director, and consultant.
He was a member of many learned societies, including Phi Beta Kappa, the London Mathematical Society, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the Circolo Matematico di Palermo, Société Mathématique de France, and the Royal Astronomical Society. The degree of LL.D. was conferred on him by Drake University, Tulane University, Baylor University, and Bethany; that of Sc.D. was conferred upon him by Colorado College. In 1898 Lovett married Mary Ellen Hale of Mayfield, Kentucky; they had two daughters and two sons. He died on August 13, 1957, and was buried in Glenwood Cemetery, Houston.
BIBLIOGRAPHY: Sam Hanna Acheson, Herbert P. Gambrell, Mary Carter Toomey, and Alex M. Acheson, Jr., Texian Who's Who, Vol. 1 (Dallas: Texian, 1937). American Philosophical Society Yearbook, 1956-57. Houston Chronicle, August 14, 1957. Houston Post, August 14, 1957. Houston Press, August 14, 1957. New York Times, August 14, 1957. Proceedings of the Philosophical Society of Texas, 1942, 1957. Clay Bailey
"LOVETT, EDGAR ODELL." The Handbook of Texas Online. <http://www.tsha.utexas.edu/handbook/online/articles/view/LL/flo34.html> [Accessed Thu Sep 30 11:30:31 US/Central 2004 ].
The symposium "Julian Huxley, Biologist and Statesman of Science" was sponsored by Scientia of Rice University and planned by Albert Van Helden, Dept. of History, Rice University. The speakers included Huxley scholars from universities in the United States and Great Britain.
Julian Sorell Huxley (b. June 22, 1887, d. February 14, 1975) was a lecturer in Zoology at Oxford (1910-1912), Research Associate and later Assistant Professor of Biology at Rice Institute (1913-1916), and fought in World War I before returning to Oxford in 1919, where he conducted the famous axolotl experiments and participated in the university's expedition to Spitsbergen. He became Professor of Zoology at King's College, University of London in 1925, but resigned his position in 1927 to collaborate on what would become The Science of Life with H.G. Wells. He was Fullerian Professor of Physiology in the Royal Institution (1927-1929) while working with Wells, however after 1929 he held no academic position. For ten years he was a private person working to advance his ideas about the biological sciences not as a researcher nor as a teacher, but as a writer on scientific developments and their relationship to contemporary social issues.
From 1935-1942 he served as Secretary of the Zoological Society of London, allowing him to encourage solid research on animal behavior while introducing innovative methods for implementing his vision of the zoo as an educational institution. He continued his work as a writer and lecturer and was known throughout war-time Britain for his participation as a panel member of the BBC Brains Trust program. After World War II he helped form Unesco, serving as the organization's first Director-General (1946-1948). Here he set out a program cosmopolitan in vision, one concerned with mankind in relationship with nature and with its past, one in which art and science were equally valued. He also began to articulate fully the concerns which would occupy the later years of his life: the relation of overpopulation to poverty and ignorance, the necessity for the conservation of wilderness and wildlife, and the importance of the renunciation of parochial views on religion and politics. The remainder of his life was spent traveling, lecturing and writing in support of the causes to which he was devoted. Throughout his long career, he contributed significantly to the fields of ethology, ecology and cancer research, and acted as a powerful proponent of neo-Darwinism.
"Studies in English Literature 1500-1900" was founded in 1960 by Carroll Camden, former chair of the English Department, Rice University, and was first published in 1961. The journal includes critical essays from leading scholars in specific fields and a review essay on recent studies in that field.
Longtime SEL editor Bob Patten, Rice University's Lynette S. Autrey Professor in Humanities, collaborates with an editorial board composed of internationally recognized experts to review all essays submitted. Diana Hobby fellowships support graduate students who work on all aspects of the journal.
In 1998 distribution duties were taken over by Johns Hopkins University Press who makes the printed version available as well as an electronic version through the press's Project Muse. All editorial duties are still performed by Rice University.
John L. Margrave was born April 13, 1924 in Kansas City, Kansas. He served in the U.S. Army's Signal Corps from 1941 until 1968, on active duty from 1943 through 1946. Margrave earned his B.S. in Engineering Physics in 1948 and his Ph.D. in Chemistry in 1950 from the University of Kansas in Lawrence, Kansas, where he was a Summerfield Scholar and a Slosson Fellow. He spent twenty months as a Postdoctoral Fellow with the Atomic Energy Commission in the Department of Chemistry at Berkeley from 1951 to 1952. He also was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1960.
Margrave taught Chemistry from 1952 to 1963 at the University of Wisconsin. He began his career at Rice University as a professor of chemistry in 1963. From 1967 through 1972 he was professor and chair of Rice's department of chemistry, and from 1972 until 1980 as dean of Advanced Studies and Research. In 1980 he was named vice-president of Advanced Studies and Research, a position he held until 1986. That year he was named the E. D. Butcher Professor of Chemistry, a title he kept until his death on December 18, 2003 from complications following heart surgery.
Margrave's laboratory at Rice University pioneered the following processes: synthetic studies of the carbine-analog SiF2; research in liquid metals at high temperatures through the electromagnetic levitation and heating of conducting samples coupled with high pressure drop calorimetry; a technique for X-ray powder diffraction studies of samples at high pressures; the use of high temperature mass spectroscopy to study fluorides, oxyfluorides, sulfides, and other species; low temperature reactions of metal atoms, dimers, and small clusters with H2O, ROH, R2O, NH3, CO, CO2, and other Lewis bases; reactions of elemental fluorine in low-temperature matrices and with oxides and nitrides; and studies of liquid metals by levitation techniques, including microgravity. Margrave's special fields of interest included High Temperature Chemistry; Fluorine Chemistry; Optical, Infrared, ESR, Matrix-Isolation and Mass Spectrometry; High Pressure Chemistry; Thermochemistry; and Levitation Calorimetry. He was the recipient of numerous awards, including an Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowship, an American Chemical Society Award in Fluorine Chemistry, and a Kiekhofer Memorial Teaching Award. He was included in Who's Who in America's 1976-1977 edition. Margrave belonged to numerous professional societies such as the American Chemical Society, the National Academy of Sciences, the American Institute of Chemists, and the American Society for Mass Spectrometry. He authored more than 800 publications and was editor of the journal High Temperature Science from 1968 through at least 1995 and Refractory Materials Science from 1976 to 1977. From 1970 through 1976 he also co-edited the Materials Science and Technology Series and, from 1975 to 1976, the Proceedings of the American Society for Mass Spectrometry. In addition, Margrave was a member of a number of editorial boards, including the Journal of Physical Chemistry, Annual Review of Physical Chemistry, and Advances in High Temperature Chemistry. Additionally, Margrave served on many advisory committees, including the Advisory Committee for Reactor Chemistry at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, the Defense Advanced Research Project Agency's Materials Research Council, and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Advisory Panel for Space Processing.
During his career at Rice University Margrave served as chairman of the Committee on the Undergraduate Curriculum for 1965-1971 and the Graduate Council from 1972-1986. In addition he served on the University Council from 1972-1986, the Research Council 1971-1986, the Tenure Review Committee from 1972-1986, and the Committee on Affirmative Action from 1969-1985, which he chaired from 1969-1973. Other committees upon which Margrave served included the University Space Committee from 1980-1986 and the Graduate House Advisory Committee from 1983-1986. Margrave also became director of the Rice Design Center in 1972 and was a member of the Rice Quantum Institute beginning in 1979. He was also president and then director of Sigma Xi, the scientific research society, from 1986 until 1992.
Margrave delivered numerous international lectures and served as a consultant to many industries and government entities, including the Argonne National Laboratory, Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory, and the Solar Energy Research Institute. He established Marchem, Incorporated, a consulting firm and research lab, and was involved with the Houston Area Research Center (HARC) and the Gulf Universities Research Consortium (GURC). He married Mary Lou Davis, granddaughter of a former Kansas governor, in 1950.
The Gulf Universities Research Consortium (GURC) was formed in 1965. It was an interdisciplinary collaboration between industries and Gulf of Mexico universities designed to further research and development capabilities. Businesses such as Arco Oil and Gas Company, the Mitchell Energy and Development Corporation, and Dresser Industries often co-sponsored research projects. GURC relied on the expertise of knowledgeable professionals in economics, chemistry, anthropology, agri-economics, and ecology. The organization's founders specifically worked to develop programs and research that were in the public interest or of common concern to its members and affiliates. Affiliates included the University of Alabama, Tulane University, Southern Methodist University, and the University of Miami. The last correspondence related to GURC, dated 1983, indicates that the consortium disbanded sometime after that date.
The Houston Area Research Center (HARC) was an independent, non-profit corporation established to undertake studies associated with the development of new and emerging technologies. In addition, the corporation sought to carry out research focusing on the social, economic, and environmental consequences of alternate technologies, and to provide a setting for research and technology-related learning through workshops, seminars, and conferences. HARC was formed by a partnership of Rice University, the University of Houston, and Texas A&M University. It grew to include the University of Texas at Austin. It promoted the economic growth of east Texas and focused its attention on developing applied research centers such as the Laser Application Research Center, the Advanced Studies Institute, the National Dynamic Test Center, and the Technological Support for Health Systems center. While no definitive date for the beginning of HARC is located in the collection, it appears that it began operations in 1980. The last dated correspondence in the Margrave papers related to HARC is 1989.
High Temperature Science began publication in 1969. It was formed to foster the theoretical and practical uses of high temperature science. Margrave was one of its initial incorporators. He served as its editor from 1969 until at least 1995, the last year for which material was found in the collection. In 1975 it became known as High Temperature Science and Energy Technology and later as High Temperature and Materials Science. Academic Press originally published the journal, but lack of subscriptions caused that press to cease sponsoring publication. In 1977 Humana Press took over as publisher.
Margrave formed Marchem, Incorporated in 1969. The company started as a direct result of Margrave's and his chemistry associates' experimentation and development of CFX—a high temperature lubricant incorporating the fluorination of carbon (thus, the CF). Marchem's beginning goal was to produce and sell CFX samples. Marchem also operated as a consulting firm and research lab with expertise in high temperature chemistry. In addition, the company helped develop the LaMar process (a combination of the names of its developers—Margrave and Dr. R. J. Lagow, another Rice chemist). The process produced a product known as "FluoroKote," a fluorinated coating for plastics and rubbers. Both of these developments made possible the creation or improvement of many new products such as wax paper, surgical gloves, inner tubes, and rubber washers.
Little information is available on the creator of this scrapbook, Mrs. Mary J. Bobo. At one point in her life she lived in Tullahoma, Tennessee.
Jake Hess was born in 1909[?] in Cleburne, Texas. He had once played basketball and football for the Fort Worth church leagues and he became one of Rice Institute's first nationally known basketball and tennis athletes. As a member of those leagues, he and his teammates won the city championship in football in 1923 and in basketball the year he left for college.
Hess became a student at Rice in 1927. He co-captained the freshmen basketball team and, by 1929, was fourth in individual scoring in the Southwest Conference basketball association. The following year he became the conference's leading scorer, and, in 1931, was elected captain of the team.
Hess won All-American mention honors in basketball and became captain of Rice's tennis team in 1931. In 1930 he became the Southwest Conference singles champion. The next year he took his team to the conference tennis championships, where they won. His brother, Wilbur, won the national intercollegiate and Southwest Conference tennis singles championships for Rice in 1935.
One year later Hess was elected president of Rice University's "R" Association, a group composed of the school's athletic lettermen. Hess married Leota Meyer in 1936. After college, Jake Hess worked for Texaco and played on the company's basketball team, the Scotties. He also won several tennis tournaments, including the West Virginia State Open and the Virginia State Open. He served in the Army Corps of Engineers during World War II and later started a construction business.
Hess died July 16, 1957, from complications associated with a reoccurring brain tumor. In 1970 Rice University opened the Jake Hess Tennis Stadium, named in honor of its former star athlete.
The soldiers in the regiments described in these rolls were among an estimated 160,000 men from Missouri who fought on the Union side during the United States Civil War (1861-65). Perhaps 40,000 others served under the secessionist Missouri State Guard and the Confederacy, but overlapping service occurred among the units on both sides, and an indeterminate number of Missourians actually served in both armies.
[Excerpted from Encyclopedia of the American Civil War: a political, social, and military history, ed. David S. Heidler and Jeanne T. Heidler, 2000, vol. 3.]
Rice University's Department of Fine Arts was established as part of Architecture in 1959 and James Chillman acted as the temporary chairman. Mr. William Caudill took over this job in 1961. In the early 1960's the Fine Arts Department (changed to the Department of Art and Art History in 1978) consisted of several courses in drawing, painting, sculpture, and art history. The faculty at that time was made up of Charles Schorre, David Parsons, Katherine Brown, and James Chillman as well as Jasper Rose, an Englishman who taught painting and art history. Eleanor Evans came in 1964 to teach a basic design course for freshmen architects. During that time the department offered neither a degree nor a major in fine arts. It served as a service department for the entire University to provide electives for all students. Sandy Havens, director of the Rice Players, requested he be assigned to the Fine Arts Department instead of the English Department.
At that time the Department was housed in the basement of Fondren Library with studio courses being taught in a temporary metal building at the base of the track stadium. In 1968, the Department moved to Allen Center where the first art gallery was established. During the first years, important exhibits included drawings of Dorothy Hood and photographs of Geoff Winningham. It was decided to begin building a permanent collection. The department moved to their new quarters in Sewall Hall in the early 1970's. There they had classrooms, studios and offices.
In 1969 Dominique and John de Menil left the sponsorship of the Art History Department and gallery at the University of St. Thomas and proposed moving these activities to Rice University. The move of the entire Art Department, collection and staff, was completed and the de Menil's Institute for the Arts at Rice was born. The Institute sponsored exhibits and published catalogs of national and international interest.
In 1965 John O'Neil was asked to become Chairman of the Department of Fine Arts. He accepted on the basis of being 'acting' chairman since it was not certain what the situation would be. In 1967 he decided to accept a permanent appointment at Rice. When the de Menil merger was completed, he continued as Chairman and Mrs. de Menil was the director of the Institute for the Arts.
In 1965 a proposal was made for an undergraduate major in Fine Arts at Rice University. In the 1970's and 1980's a Master of Arts degree in history of art and 5th year bachelors degree in studio were offered.
Parts excerpted from "The Cornerstone," published by the Rice Historical Society, Winter/Spring 2001. Also see History of Fine Arts, File 7.8
Clarence Ray Wharton, son of Frank B. and Ella Ray Wharton, was born in Tarrant County, Texas, on Oct. 5, 1873. He attended county schools, taught from 1888 to 1892, studied law and was admitted to the bar around 1893. He began a law practice in 1885 in Decatur with Charles V. Terrell, moved in 1897 to Richmond and then to Houston to join the law firm of Baker, Botts, Baker, and Lovett in 1901. On Aug. 5, 1902 he married Adele Spoonts, and together they had four children. He was made full partner of the law firm in 1906, and as a corporate attorney represented Houston Lighting and Power, Houston Gas and Fuel, and Houston Electric companies. Wharton was the first chairman of Houston Community Chest, and prominent in the American Red Cross during World War I. He was active in the Harris County Historical Society, reaching vice president in 1923. He was very well known for his many articles and published works on Texas history. He died in Houston on May 1, 1941 and was buried in Glenwood Cemetery.
Excerpted from The New Handbook of Texas, 1996.
The Kirby Petroleum Company/George Sawtelle records offers a glimpse into the early 20th century oil boom in Texas primarily through the correspondence of George Sawtelle, who served as president of the company for more than 20 years. Sawtelle died September 4, 1967.
The origin of the Kirby Petroleum Company can be traced back to 1921 when John Henry Kirby, a pioneer in the development of the Houston business community, formed Kirby Petroleum Company, an oil and gas exploration and development company. Kirby Petroleum Company operated as a Houston-based independent oil and gas exploration and development company until 1956 when, after the sale of its producing properties, the remaining non-producing acreage was merged with three other independent oil and gas companies to form Kirby VenSyn Petroleum Company, a publicly traded company. As a result of the mergers, the Murchison family of Dallas, later noted for its ownership of the Dallas Cowboys, owned approximately 35 percent of Kirby. Kirby VenSyn Petroleum Company changed its name to Kirby Petroleum Co. in 1957 and adopted the name Kirby Industries, Inc. in 1967. As of 2005, the company, still based in Houston, is known as Kirby Corp. although its primary business is transporting bulk liquid products on the Mississippi River System and Gulf Intracoastal Waterway. Kirby Corporation. (2001). Company History. Retrieved March 23, 2005 from http://www.kmtc.com/corp/history.cfm
George Sawtelle was born in Wheeling Virginia on February 27, 1892. He graduated in 1916 from Lehigh University with a bachelor of science degree in chemistry. In 1916, he was in the U.S. Army and stationed on the border with Mexico. During World War I, he served in France in the Seventh Field Artillery Brigade and rose to the rank of captain. His brigade commander thought highly enough of the young captain to write Sawtelle a letter stating that he had been recommended for promotion to major. That letter is located in box 5, folder 4. From 1920 to 1921, Sawtelle, a longtime football enthusiast, served as an assistant football coach at Northwestern University. He joined Kirby Petroleum Company in 1922. In 1924, he was the general manager and chief geologist of the company. Eventually, he rose to the presidency of the company, a position he held for more than 20 years. He resigned as chairman of the Kirby board in 1965. As the result of a heart attack, he died Sunday, September 3, 1967 in Austin, Texas.
Ruth Young McGonigle was born on April 5th, 1902 in Spindletop, Texas. After graduating from Houston High School in 1918, she entered the Rice Institute to take art classes, but ended up studying architecture instead.
In 1924, McGonigle was the first woman to graduate from Rice with a B.S. in Architecture. After graduation, she worked for William Ward Watkin, who was not only a Houston architect, but also a professor at Rice. McGonigle worked under his tutelage until she married former classmate, George McGonigle Jr., on September 29, 1925. She then settled in her husband's hometown of Brownsville and began her own practice.
McGonigle was particularly known for recognizing Brownsville's unique historical architecture and incorporating that style in her own work. Her sensitivity to19th century Creole building tradition is evident in her designs for the Brown-Young house and Hert house in Rio Viejo. Although she designed mainly single-family homes, her artistry could also be found in public buildings like the St. Paul's Episcopal Mission and the Brownsville Art League Museum. During the 1950's, she also designed floats for Brownsville's annual Charro Days parades. Ruth was not only one of the first female architects to work in the lower Rio Grande Valley, but also one of the founders of the Brownsville Art League. Throughout the last decades of her life, McGonigle worked with the Brownsville Historical Association to document the city's architectural heritage.
She and her husband had two children. Her husband was killed in a plane accident on July 2, 1954. Ruth Y. McGonigle died on April 14, 1984.
Bibliography: www.tsha.utexas.edu; Ruth Young McGonigle Papers, Woodson Research Center, Rice University.
Lia Unrau served from 1995-2001 as Science Editor for the Rice News, a publication produced by the Office of Media Relations and Information within Rice University's Department of Public Affairs. She accumulated the files in this collection during the course of research conducted for the articles she wrote, often involving background research along with interviews with Rice faculty members and other experts in the field of science. She also assisted with media relations for the schools of engineering and science, and with various science-related conferences held on the Rice campus.
Andrew Forest Muir was born January 8, 1916 in Houston Heights, Texas. He earned a Bachelor of Arts degree (1938) and a Master of Arts (1942) from Rice Institute, as well as a Ph.D. from the University of Texas (1949). While in Austin he taught at St. Luke's School and tutored English at the University of Texas (1942-44), also serving as acting director of the San Jacinto Museum of History (1943-44). Muir next traveled to Hawaii where, from 1945 to 1949, he worked as a civilian employee for the U.S. Engineers in Honolulu, Hawaii, taught history at the Iolany School, and later was Educational Advisor to the Commanding General at Schofield Barracks, Hawaii. He served as an Assistant Professor of History at Daniel Baker College in Brownwood, Texas, from 1951-53, before moving on to teach at the Polytechnic Institute, in San German, Puerto Rico for the 1953-54 academic year. Honored as a John Simon Guggenheim Memorial fellow for 1957-58, he then joined the history department at Rice Institute in 1958.
As a historian, Muir published numerous studies on religion and church leaders in Hawaii during the late eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, as well as several studies on free blacks in the Houston area. He also authored "Early Missionaries in Texas" (1941), "Railroad Enterprise in Texas, 1936-1841" (1944), "The Thirty-Second Parallel Pacific Railroad in Texas 1872" (1949), and "Thomas Jefferson Ewing, Texas Ward: Politician" (1952) as well as Texas in 1837, which he edited in 1958.
Known as an authority on William Marsh Rice, his work "William Marsh Rice and His Institute: A Biographical Study," was edited by Sylvia Stallings Morris and posthumously published in 1972. In addition, Muir contributed to "The Handbook of Texas," "Southwestern Historical Quarterly," the "Historical Magazine of the Protestant Episcopal Church," and the "Tennessee Historical Quarterly," and served as associate editor of the "Journal of Southern History."
Andrew Forest Muir died on February 3, 1969.
In 1987, Rice president George Rupp formed a Commission on Women to investigate matters related to working women at Rice. Following an election, he appointed sixteen women from the faculty and staff to serve on the commission, which accepted the following charge: "The Commission will explore and evaluate issues relating to Rice women, especially in areas where inequities may exist, formulate specific recommendations to the Administration based upon its analysis, and educate the Rice community about behaviors and attitudes that operate to the detriment of women. The ultimate goal of the Commission will be to ensure a positive environment for women on campus."
The Commission, chaired by Professor Hally Beth Poindexter, set up task forces to study campus visibility, salaries, hiring practices, promotion and employee review practices, campus climate, benefits, and policies related to part-time employment. Over a hundred volunteers, both women and men, worked on the task forces, which met as often as weekly. However, before the task forces went into action the Commission felt it needed to address an immediate issue, the summer working conditions of college maintenance employees; an ad hoc subcommittee was formed in August 1987 and its report was issued September 1987.
The report of the Commission on Women 1987-88 consists of a summary report plus the reports of the seven task forces. The Commission also made recommendations, organized according to the individuals or departments responsible, so that each administrator can see the recommendations from the various task forces that would apply to his or her office or function.
In April and May 1989, Commission members met with three deans and the provost to discuss and take notes on the latters' "ideas for the future role of the Women's Commission, issues that needed clarification, and future problems that they could anticipate." In the spring of 1990 the Commission sent a memo to vice presidents and deans summarizing the Commission's five themes deemed to be of utmost importance of women on the Rice Campus and asking the VP's and Deans to identify "both general and specific points of progress and programs that have addressed these deficiencies, " which they did, some at length.
In September 1990, some of the original Commission members stayed on and others phased out, to allow for a mix of new blood and continuity of experience.
The Commission continued for several years thereafter. In the early 1990s, the Commission analyzed issues as child care needs for employees and students, and suggested creating an on-campus facility. During the mid-1990s under President Malcolm Gillis' direction, the Commission revisited the original 1988 report to determine whether recommendations and concerns were addressed by Rice University since that time.
Recently, President David W. Leebron established a new advisory group that will counsel the president and provost on issues facing women faculty. Based on the findings of a 2003 report of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee, the report indicated a favorable campus-wide climate, however women faculty expressed lower degrees of satisfaction than men on most measures. The 2003 report is included in the collection.
Green's Texas Brigade was a cavalry brigade ordered to Louisiana to support Vicksburg and Port Hudson, crucial Confederate posts on the Mississippi River. Green's Texas Brigade had been formed by former Arizona militia forced out of the Arizona territory by the Union's "California Column". Green's Brigade was assigned the task of preventing Union incursions into Texas from the sea, the west, and the east. After successfully preventing the Union Army from capturing Galveston, Green's Brigade was ordered to Louisiana. Upon returning to Louisiana, Green's brigade was rejoined by Herbert's Battalion and General Sibley, all under the command of General Richard Taylor. Under General Taylor's command, Green's Brigade was meant to divert Union attention from the besieged forts of Vicksburg and Port Hudson. After this failed attempt Union forces entered Louisiana placing General Taylor's men, including Green's Brigade, on the front lines of the war. This campaign to prevent Union forces from taking control of Louisiana is referred to as the Bayou Teche campaign. The Union goal in the campaign was to trap Confederate forces between the Bayou Teche and the Atchafalaya River. It was during this campaign that a small detachment of Company H of Green's Texas Brigade encountered the 2nd Illinois in the outskirts of Iberia, Louisiana. The officers of the company attempted without success to rally their troops to fight the charging Illinois cavalry. The retreating Confederates were then either "sabered", using James Henry Tevis's words, or captured.
Kezia Payne DePelchin, Texas nurse, social worker and teacher, was born in the Madeira Islands and moved to Texas at the age of eight. Her father died shortly thereafter, and she was raised and educated by his second wife, an English governess. She gained resistance to yellow fever in 1839 when she survived the disease that killed two siblings and weakened her father, and volunteered as a nurse during the Houston epidemics of 1852, 1854, 1858, and 1867. After her marriage during the U.S. Civil War failed, she lived with a minister's family and participated in charitable activities with women from Houston's elite families.
In 1878, she traveled to Memphis, Tennessee from her home in Houston to assist the Howard Association during a yellow fever epidemic known as the Yellow Jack, and worked as a volunteer nurse from August 30 until mid-November. Her devotion to volunteer work was based in her strong religious and charitable sentiments. Though she was well respected in Houston, Memphis society viewed DePelchin's work as a violation of their expectations of a woman's proper place. She traveled as a volunteer nurse though Tennessee, Mississippi and Alabama, following the epidemic, then returned home to Houston in November of 1878. She spent many years as a teacher and matron of an orphanage in Houston.
In the late 1800's, she took three unwanted babies into a Houston house that, supported by DePelchin and charitable donations, eventually developed into a haven for orphans. In 1893 she officially named the house "Faith Home", but died three months later from a fever. After the turn of the century, the facility was rebuilt and is now known as the DePelchin Children's Center.
Sarah Austin (1793-1867) was an English writer and translator, and the wife of jurist John Austin. She urged the establishment in England of a national system of education and is best known for her work Germany from 1760 to 1814, a survey of German institutions and manners.
Company G of the 5th Regiment, Rhode Island Artillery, served in the Union Army during the United States Civil War (1861-65), during which time its members were stationed for some time near New Berne, North Carolina. The records in this collection provide names of those serving in the Company, various types of equipment and clothing issued, and methods used for provisioning of supplies and tracking of expenditures.
Peter W. Gray was born in Fredericksburg, Virginia in 1819 and moved to Texas in 1838. Gray worked in his father's law office in Houston, Texas before he became a captain in the Army of the Republic of Texas. In 1841, Gray was appointed District Attorney of the Houston district by Sam Houston. He ran for city secretary in 1840 but was elected alderman in 1841 and became a member of the board of health. In 1846, Gray was elected to the first Texas States Legislature where he authored the Practice Act which is the first piece of legislation regulating the court system of the State of Texas. In 1848, Gray founded the Houston Lyceum which eventually became the Houston Public Library. Henderson Yoakum's "History of Texas" was published with the financial support of Gray. After being elected to the State Legislature in 1854, Gray served as judge of the Houston district. Gray was a states rights Democrat and fully supported succession. He also served as a delegate to the states Succession Convention. During the Confederacy, Gray served as a representative of the Houston District in the Congress of the Confederacy. After serving in many important positions in the Confederacy, peace brought Gray back to Houston where he practiced law privately and built his firm into one of the largest in the nation. In 1874, Gray was appointed associate justice of the Texas Supreme Court and served there until he became fatally ill with tuberculosis. Gray died later that year.
Elizabeth Craw (1809-ca.1909) grew up on a farm near Cleveland, Ohio, near her childhood friend, sweetheart, and eventual fiancé, Samuel Evans. Evans was educated as a soldier, and upon graduation was immediately assigned to the unsettled Mexican border. In 1833, his parents decided to make the long horseback and boat journey to visit him, and invited Craw, his fiancée, to accompany them. The group traveled from Cleveland, Ohio down the Mississippi and Red Rivers and across Louisiana swamps, and arrived in Saint Augustine, Texas. Craw wrote in sporadic diary entries about her departure, journey and experiences in Texas. After her arrival in Texas, her fiancé, Lt. Samuel Evans, was killed at the Alamo. She opened a small school in her Saint Augustine home in 1837, and had returned to Cleveland by 1841.
No biographical information about the diary's author is available. The diary was found in Saarburg by the donor, who arrived to the German town during World War II with occupation troops. According to donor's letter, the town was deserted at the time of the diary's discovery.
Saarburg is a small town of the Trier-Saarburg district in the Rhineland-Palatinate state of Germany, on the banks of the Saar River in the hilly country a few kilometers upstream from the Saar's junction with the Moselle. This area is part of a fascinating landscape replete with significant historical places in Germany. The area borders (from the north and clockwise) North Rhine-Westphalia, Hesse, Baden-Württemberg, France, Saarland, Luxembourg and Belgium.
The history of the city begins with the construction of the now-ruined castle by Graf Siegfried of Luxembourg in 964. It received its town charter in 1291. The city has a bell foundry, the Glockengießerei Mabilion, which has been in operation since the 1770s, and as of 2003 the only one in Germany that makes bronze bells. The area around Saarburg is noted for the cultivation of Riesling grapes.
Information about the Saarburg and its region compiled from several entries found in www.wikipedia.com.
John Wyatt Moody was the first auditor of the Republic of Texas and owned much of the land which is now part of the City of Houston. As auditor of the Republic of Texas he continually was faced with reimbursing the soldiers and diplomats that served the Republic in its infancy. Born 65 miles southwest of Richmond, Virginia and moved to Alabama, then to Indian Territory, and finally settled in La Grange, Texas. Moody eventually bought fifteen acres along Buffalo Bayou from the Allen Brothers, noted land speculators in the Houston area, and subdivided the property. What is commonly called the Moody addition, is 15 acres of subdivided land that has access the Buffalo Bayou and what is now extremely valuable downtown real estate. John Wyatt Moody's real estate in Houston and other parts of Texas is comprised of some of the most central parts of Houston and the Moody family still has ties to the Houston area.
Doctor John McNeill was born in North Carolina and attended The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and The University of Pennsylvania Medical School in Philadelphia. He then moved to the Territory of Florida where he became active in politics and backed potential governors. Later Stewart moved to Brazoria County, Texas where he remained as a general practitioner for the remainder of his life. During his life he published the "Adventures of Josiah Pranglan" which seems to have represented his ancestry and to have explained his family's journey from the highlands of Scotland to North Carolina. Stewart's political opposition to Willis Alston proved fatal when Alston shot Stewart from point blank range in Brazoria. Stewart's fellow citizens demonstrated their respect and outrage concerning their neighbors' death by lynching Alston.
William Allen Haynes (1873-1953?), a native of Bell County, Texas, came from ranching stock. He carried on the family tradition and by the turn of the century was an established rancher. As oil became increasingly lucrative adjunct to ranching, Haynes together with his brother Robert branched out into oil well drilling and leasing oil lands. Haynes, like most ranchers, suffered ups and downs of the cattle market, from difficulties with transporting his cattle, and from the vagaries of weather. Despite these problems, he managed to stay solvent and even make money during the 1920's. One reason for his solvency was that he was never simply a rancher, but derived additional income from oil and investments in real estate. In 1928 Haynes was named a director of the struggling First National Bank of Killeen, and he became president of the bank just in time for the Great Depression. His Bank limped along through the early 1930's as Haynes and the other officers and directors of the bank reduced capitalization and discussed possible liquidation. About 1935 Haynes left banking and focused his energies on ranching and land speculation.
As he grew older, the scope of his activities became increasingly limited, but he maintained an active interest in ranching well into his 70's. Haynes' life was not strictly business however. He was interested in politics and although never serving in an elected position, he often acted as an election judge in his precinct or campaigned for the Democratic Party. Among his political friends were Miriam and Jim Ferguson who both served as Governor of Texas. Parrie and Allen apparently did not have children, but they were very close to their nieces and nephews. Haynes also provided a guiding hand and monetary support for his brothers who were never quite the businessman he was. In later life, as Haynes suffered from sickness and various ailments his familial loyalty paid off, as his family took care of him in his weakened state. In 1952 his last letter was received and in 1959 his collection was donated to Rice University. His actual death occurred at some point between 1952 and 1959.
Charles B. Johnson of Johnson and Grimes, was a quartermaster in the Indian Territory, now known as Oklahoma and Texas. He helped to supply various Confederate military outfits with food. He was also from time to time ordered to furnish Indians with favorable relationships with the Confederate Government food and supplies.
Ruth Carter Slack was born into Houston's prominent Carter family. Her father, Clarence L. Carter (1869-1936), was a second generation partner at Baker Botts Law firm. After graduating from University of Texas Law School in 1891, he began working as an attorney in Livingston, TX, then moved to Houston in 1902 and engaged in general individual practice. C.L. Carter joined Baker Botts in 1907 and became partner in 1909. He stayed with the firm, mainly working as a specialist in Railroad Law, until his death in 1936. During his career, he was Vice President and director of the Groveton, Lufkin, and Northern Railway Co. and was director of the Union National Bank. Carter was also elected President of the Harris County Bar Association in 1908. On January 11, 1893, Carter married Alice Lyle Winston, and they had five children, including Ruth, the youngest. Ruth was born, raised, and educated in Houston, and was married to Samuel Morris Slack. She spent time traveling and kept diaries, photos and correspondence to chronicle her trips to Ireland, Europe, and the Middle East. Ruth Carter Slack continued her education into her adulthood, and enjoyed gardening, philanthropy and spending time with her family.
For each incoming Rice president, an Inaugural Committee is formed which works with the Board of Governors and the President's Office to plan the numerous presidential welcoming events and celebrations. After the inauguration, the committee is released from duty. David W. Leebron took office as Rice University's seventh president on July 1, 2004. On Saturday, October 2, 2004, he was officially inaugurated into that post. Due to inclement weather conditions and heat and humidity, the inaugural proceedings were held at 9:30 a.m. in the Rice Gymnasium, Autry Court. The inaugural dinner was held at the Warwick Hotel. The Rice Concert Band, the Rice Chorale, the Shepherd School Brass Ensemble, and Melody Johnson, a Shepherd School soprano, provided the music for the occasion. Arthur Gottschalk, chair of composition and theory with the Shepherd School of Music, composed a special fanfare for the inauguration ceremony. More than 200 delegates representing universities and learned societies from around the world attended the inauguration, as did such distinguished guests as the consuls of Jordan, Ukraine, and Saudi Arabia; Ambassador Edward Djerejian; and Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee.
David Leebron was born in 1956 in Philadelphia. He earned a bachelor of art's degree (1976) and doctorate of jurisprudence (1979) from Harvard University. After college Leebron clerked at the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and taught at the UCLA School of Law and New York University. From 1981 to 1983, he practiced privately with the New York law firm of Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton. In 1989 Leebron joined the faculty of the Columbia Law School. He later became the Lucy G. Moses Professor of Law and dean of the law school, a position he remained in until his selection as Rice's president. Leebron is married to Y. Ping Sun. They have two children.
Hallam Tennyson, 2nd Baron Tennyson (11 August 1852-2 December 1928), second Governor-General of Australia, was born at Chapel House, Twickenham, in Surrey, England. He was the elder son of Alfred Tennyson, the most popular and prominent poet of late Victorian England.
Hallam was educated at Marlborough College and Trinity College, Cambridge, but his career aspirations ended when his parents' age and ill-health obliged him to leave Cambridge to become their personal secretary. The idea of going into politics was also abandoned.
It was partly for Hallam's benefit that Alfred Tennyson accepted a peerage in 1884, the year Hallam married Audrey Boyle (after being disappointed in his love for Mary Gladstone, daughter of William Ewart Gladstone). On his father's death in 1892, he inherited the title Baron Tennyson, and also the role of official biographer. His Tennyson: a Memoir was published in 1897.
Excerpted from from Wikipedia: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hallam_Tennyson, 2005
Thomas W. Hotchkiss, a lawyer, editor, magazine writer, and professional researcher, was a member of the Campaign Committee of the Men's League for Woman Suffrage of the State of New York, which was active in promoting the passage of a women's suffrage amendment to the state constitution. In November of 1915, referenda for women's suffrage were on the ballot in four eastern states, including New York, but the opposition was strong. Many claimed that if given the right to vote, women would neglect their homes, and the fabric of society would be destroyed. The opposition also argued that undesirable women would flood the polls, and that a woman should not be allowed to vote if she wasn't willing to fight for her country. To help organize a response to the arguments against women's suffrage, Hotchkiss sent a form letter, dated September 27, 1915, to public officials in the states that had already adopted women's suffrage. While the response from the public officials was favorable, suffrage for women was again denied in the November 2, 1915 election. The New York Men's League for Woman Suffrage continued to campaign until New York passed the measure in 1917, three years before a national Constitutional Amendment granted suffrage to all American women.
The name of the House of Orange-Nassau was adopted by René of Châlon, the son of Hendrik III of Nassau-Breda from Germany, and and Claudia of Châlon-Orange from French Burgundy. René of Châlon's nephew, William I, became his successor and also made the House of Orange-Nassau an important political family in the Netherlands. William I organized a revolt against Spanish rule of the Netherlands, which eventually led to Dutch independence. Princes of Orange from that era include Prince Philip William, Maurice, Frederick Henry, Willem II, William II of England, and John William Friso.
A group of Houston women residing in the Woodland Heights neighborhood founded a club in 1909, initially calling it "The 26 Club," so named (according to tradition) because their modest homes could accommodate up to 26 guests. To their chagrin, they later discovered that this was also the name of a saloon on Houston Avenue, and promptly changed their name to "The 26 Literary Club" (which for archival purposes has been re-phrased as "The Twenty-Six Literary Club"). The daughters of a number of the original members became students at Rice Institute (later University) after it opened in 1912 and continued the Club, which over time was expanded and, along with its social activities, assumed various philanthropic projects, including providing scholarships for young women entering Rice.
William Marsh Rice was born in Springfield, Massachusetts on March 14, 1816. He was the third of ten children born to David and Patty Hall Rice. Little is known about Rice's childhood but records indicate that he worked for a while as a shopkeeper in Springfield before deciding to move to Texas in 1838.
Rice started out in business as a merchant in Houston, Texas. His first business partnership with a Barnabas Haskill was formed in 1840 but dissolved by 1842. In 1844 Rice became a commission and forwarding merchant in partnership with Ebenezer B. Nichols, a Houston businessman. By 1850 Rice's siblings began to follow him to Houston and assisted in his ventures. On June 29, 1850 Rice married Margaret Bremond whose father Paul was one of Rice's many business partners. In the census of 1860, Rice is listed as having $750,000 in real and personal property, making him one of the wealthiest men in Texas at the time.
At least 15 enslaved people were included as Rice's property in 1860. According to county deed records and newspaper advertisements, Rice purchased, sold, and accepted mortgages on enslaved people; he also attempted to recapture enslaved people who fled him. In addition to extending credit to slaveowners who leveraged enslaved people as collateral, Rice also bought and sold cotton as a substantial portion of his antebellum business. Rice served on a secession committee in Houston after the 1860 presidential election, and during the Civil War, Rice and his wife Margaret raised money for Confederate soldiers. On August 13, 1863, Margaret Rice died, possibly from cholera or yellow fever. Shortly after his wife's death, Rice went to Monterrey, Mexico and stayed there until August of 1865 when he returned to Houston. In Monterrey, Rice smuggled cotton and manufactured goods across the Texas-Mexico border. Later in the summer of 1865, he went to Massachusetts for business and did not return to Houston until 1866. On June 26, 1867 Rice married for a second time. His second wife was Julia Elizabeth Baldwin Brown, a widow and a daughter of Horace Baldwin, one of the early mayors of Houston. Elizabeth's sister Charlotte was the wife of William's younger brother Frederick.
Rice and his second wife moved to New Jersey to live with Rice's sister Charlotte and her family. Rice and his wife divided their time between New York City and New Jersey with occasional trips to Houston to oversee business. During one of the Rices' visits to Houston, he was approached by Cesar Maurice Lombardi, who was interested in building a high school in Houston. Rice had been interested in endowing an educational institute of some kind, having revised his will twice previously to include a school for needy boys, first in New Jersey, then in New York City. After the meeting with Lombardi, Rice decided to fund an institute of higher learning in Houston. On May 19, 1891 the charter for the William M. Rice Institute for the Advancement of Literature, Science and Art was incorporated in Austin, Texas. Captain James Addison Baker, William's brother Frederic, Houston businessmen Emanuel Raphael, Cesar Lombardi, James E. McAshan and Alfred S. Richardson were named as the first board of trustees.
In article two of the charter: "(t)he objects, intents, and purposes of this Institution are declared to be the establishment and maintenance, in the City of Houston, Texas, of a Public Library, and the maintenance of an Institution for the Advancement of Literature, Science, Art, Philosophy and Letters; the establishment and maintenance of a Polytechnic school; for procuring and maintaining scientific collections; collections of chemical and philosophical apparatus, mechanical and artistic models, drawings, pictures and statues; and for cultivating other means of instruction..." The charter also required that the Institute only accept white students, which was changed in 1965. The institute was initially endowed with a promissory note for $200,000 to be paid upon Rice's death. Rice revised his will on September 26, 1896 and left the bulk of his estate to his namesake institute.
During the battle over the estate two lawyers became involved with the proceedings and would end up greatly influencing the final results. Captain Baker, a trustee of the Rice Institute, served as William Rice's lawyer. Albert Patrick, the other lawyer, was hired by Orren Holt in 1898 to investigate the residency question in New York City. There Patrick met Charlie Jones, Rice's valet. The two spent a great deal of time together and slowly a plan was formed. At first it seemed that Patrick was only interested in the settlement of the contested will and was looking for any way to win. He convinced Jones, in the spring of 1900, to start poisoning Rice with mercury pills as a way to avoid a court battle. By the summer of 1900 Patrick came up with the idea to forge a will that left the majority of Rice's estate to himself and small sums to relatives and friends. The forged will was dated June 30, 1900.
On September 8, 1900 a hurricane struck the Gulf Coast and one of Rice's businesses, the Merchants and Planters Oil Company, suffered severe damage. The business manager telegraphed that they needed money for repairs and the sum was most of what Rice had available in his bank account. Patrick was worried at the loss of such a large sum of ready cash and he convinced Jones to use chloroform to kill Rice. On September 23, 1900 Rice was murdered by Jones. Patrick, in his haste to get hold of Rice's cash, tried to withdraw money from Rice's bank using a check forged by Jones right after Rice's death. The bank refused to honor the check since Patrick's name was spelled incorrectly. When calling to verify the check with Rice, the bank learned that he was dead. Since the circumstances were suspicious, the bank contacted Rice's Houston lawyer, Captain Baker.
When Baker arrived in New York City, he learned there had been a new will written up by Patrick. Baker was suspicious of the will since Rice had never notified him of any changes to the one Baker had drawn up on September 26, 1896. This suspicion led to a long and sensational trial where Patrick's version of the will was exposed as a forgery and the scheme to kill Rice was discovered. Patrick was found guilty of murder and forgery on March 26, 1902 and was sentenced to die in the electric chair. Jones, who confessed to his part of the events, ended up being released despite being the one who had actually committed the murder. Patrick's sentence was commuted to life imprisonment by the governor of New York, but eventually won a full pardon in 1912.
On February 6, 1902 Orren Holt settled the suit over Elizabeth's will for $200,000. After the trials and settlement, Captain Baker and the original Board of Trustees set about fulfilling Rice's dream to have an institute for higher learning in Houston, Texas. To guide them, the trustees chose as first president, a young mathematician and astronomer at Princeton University named Edgar Odell Lovett, who signed on as president in 1908. Lovett had earned doctorates both from the Universities of Virginia and Leipzig and had taught at Johns Hopkins, the University of Chicago, and Princeton, the most innovative American universities of the time. The trustees sent him on a worldwide tour of the "competition," where he interviewed faculty, inspected facilities, and developed an inspired vision of what might be accomplished on the plains of Texas with a blank-check charter, a generous endowment, and high ambitions. The goal was a university "of the highest grade" that kept "the standards up and the numbers down." Lovett shaped the university that Rice would become.
The Rice Institute opened on September 23, 1912, the anniversary of Mr. Rice's murder, with 77 students and a dozen faculty. An international academic festival celebrated the opening three weeks later, a spectacular event that brought Rice to the attention of the entire scholarly world. Four years later, at the initial commencement, 35 bachelor degrees and one master's degree were awarded, with the first doctorate conferred in 1918.
The Americas collection strives to represent the full range and complexity of the Americas. Thomas Jefferson famously observed that "America has a hemisphere to itself," and the founding fathers agreed that gaining influence in Spanish America "piece by piece" was essential to the U.S. Conversely, Latin American nations like Brazil, Cuba, Nicaragua, and El Salvador used the American Revolution as a touchstone for their own nation formations, even as they aspired to shape the U.S. democratic model to their own needs.
This story of national exchange and influence across the hemisphere will be more fully told through this archive which brings together key documents. Currently scholars interested in telling this rich story must travel, for example, between the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C. and the Cuban Society of Historical and International Study in Havana. A notable exception is the University of Maryland's Early Americas Digital Archive, which invites scholars to submit their editions of early Americas texts for digital publication. Its historical range of 1492 to 1800 makes it an ideal future partner for Rice's initiative, which begins with the heyday of nation formation from 1776 to 1815 and ends with the building of the Panama Canal in the early twentieth century.
This archive will allow us to understand, for example, why Brazilian insurgents owned and read copies of the American Declaration of Independence as well as works by Jefferson and Thomas Paine; why José Martí found the U.S. system of governance a rich source of commentary and critique for Cuban independence efforts; and why Fidel Castro quoted the American Declaration of Independence and likened the burning of cane fields to the Boston Tea Party during his 1958 take over of Cuba. But such an archive will also allow us to think in new ways about the U.S. American story. It will show us, for example, that U.S. slaves escaped South as well as North, establishing communities throughout Spanish America during the U.S. antebellum period. Such an archive, in short, brings into sharp focus the overlapping national stories of the hemisphere.
Historical sketch excerpted from text courtesy of Dr. Caroline Levander, Humanities Research Center, Rice University.
Julian Sorell Huxley, the grandson of Thomas Henry Huxley and great-nephew of Matthew Arnold, was born June 22, 1887. The union of the Huxley and Arnold families brought about a happy combination of what Julian's younger brother Aldous would call "blue genes", but the combined family traditions also imposed an obligation of intellectual excellence and social responsibility. This obligation was keenly felt by Julian Huxley from an early age. It was enhanced by his affinity for the interests which had earned his grandfather his place in the history of science, and thus, it soon became apparent that young Julian would be Thomas Huxley's intellectual heir as well as his grandson. This inheritance would prove both a joy and a burden, for while Julian Huxley achieved great renown as a scientist and popularizer of science, he was plagued, like his grandfather, by serious and debilitating attacks of depression. In spite of this he was able, throughout a long career, to contribute significantly to the fields of ethology, ecology and cancer research, and to act effectively as a powerful proponent of neo-Darwinism.
He was educated at Eton and Oxford, where he followed his own inclinations and his grandfather's example by studying Natural Science. His scientific interests were combined with literary talents which were officially recognized in 1908, when he was awarded the Newdigate Prize for English Verse at Oxford, an honor which he remembered with pride even after a lifetime of honors and accomplishments. (It is note-worthy and characteristic that he spent his prize money on a microscope.)
After completing his schooling, he began his career at the institution which had taught him: in 1910, he became a lecturer in Zoology at Oxford. Two years later, however, he departed from the course traditional to a young man of his academic interests and social background. He left England and Oxford to accept a position as Research Associate at the newly established Rice Institute in Houston, Texas, and by 1913 he had become Assistant Professor of Biology there. He remained in Houston until 1916 when he returned to Europe to take part in World War I.
After serving as an army intelligence officer in Italy, he came home to marry and to take up a position as Senior Demonstrator in Zoology at Oxford. From 1919 to 1925 he remained at Oxford, carrying out his famous axolotl experiments and participating in the university's expedition to Spitsbergen. In 1925 he became Professor of Zoology at King's College, University of London. But he did not remain long in that position. The following year he made a decision which, like his decision to teach at the Rice Institute, would move him away from the path followed by most of his fellow scientists. He accepted the invitation of H.G. Wells to collaborate on what would become The Science of Life, and in 1927 resigned his position at King's College. This meant a new direction for his career, for although he was Fullerian Professor of Physiology in the Royal Institution from 1927 to 1929, after that he held no academic position. For ten years he was a private person working to advance his ideas about the biological sciences not as a researcher nor as a teacher, but as a writer on scientific developments and their relationship to contemporary social issues.
In 1935 he accepted the position of Secretary of the Zoological Society of London. In this capacity he had the means to encourage solid research on animal behavior while introducing innovative methods for implementing his vision of the zoo as an educational institution. Unfortunately his leadership aroused the displeasure of some members of the Society, and in 1942 he resigned under pressure. He continued, however, his work as a writer and lecturer and was known throughout war-time Britain for his participation as a panel member of the BBC Brains Trust program.
The end of the war brought an opportunity for him to put many of his cherished ideals and projects into practice. True to family tradition, he had always viewed science, art and literature as part of a great whole. Thus when he became a member of the commission formed to plan what would become Unesco, he ensured that science would be an integral part of the educational and cultural institution. When in 1946 he became Unesco's first Director-General, he set out a program cosmopolitan in vision, one concerned with mankind in relationship with nature and with its past, one in which art and science were equally valued. He even went so far as to advocate his own solution to the troubling questions of modern society, his "religion" of scientific humanism, as an official basis for Unesco's philosophy. This he himself came later to find unwise. During his tenure as Director-General he also began to articulate fully the concerns which would occupy the later years of his life: the relation of overpopulation to poverty and ignorance, the necessity for the conservation of wilderness and wildlife, and the importance of the renunciation of parochial views on religion and politics. Finally, he came to stress even more strongly than before his optimistic belief that mankind can and should take control of its own environmental and biological destiny.
In 1948 his term of office with Unesco came to an end and Huxley was once again a private citizen. The remainder of his life was spent traveling, lecturing and writing in support of the causes to which he was devoted: evolutionary theory and its significance for potential human development, ecology and the preservation of wildlife and population control. He was honored often for his contributions to science and to society, receiving prizes and awards for his efforts in helping the general public to better understand contemporary scientific thought. In 1958 he received a knighthood. In 1965, in a culmination of work he began in his youth with his field studies of the behavior of the great crested grebe, he organized a Royal Society Symposium on the Ritualization of Behavior in Animals and Man, and in 1970 he received the International Union for the Conservation of Nature Gold Medal for outstanding contributions to scientific research related to conservation.
On February 14, 1975, at the age of 87, Sir Julian Huxley died. His life had been long, beginning in the Victorian era and ending in a world which his grandfather could scarcely have imagined. He served many of the causes with which the 20th century will no doubt become identified, and his influence on the development of contemporary biological science was considerable. Through his field studies of animal behavior and his synthetic approach to Darwinian evolutionary theory and Mendelian genetics, he helped determine the direction of modern biology. As an educator his influence was incalculable, for he taught not only such men as E.B. Ford and A.C. Hardy, but through his writings, perhaps millions of men and women as well. He was, moreover, known for his encouragement of aspiring scientists and scholars. In his catholic interests, in his belief in the interrelationship of science and arts, he extended his influence beyond the laboratory of the classroom and reached artists, writers, musicians, politicians and finally the general public. Such interests and such influence indicate that his desire to be known as one to whom "nothing human and nothing in external nature was alien" was fulfilled.
Juliette Huxley: Lady Marie Juliette Baillot was born in Auvernier, Switzerland, in a village near Lake Neuchâtel, on December 6, 1896, and moved to England at the age of nineteen to work as a French teacher for Ottoline Morrell. At Garsington, Morrell's home, she met numerous guests including Aldous Leonard Huxley (ALH) and Julian Huxley. Julian and Juliette began courting in 1916, and corresponded throughout 1917 and 1918 while Julian served in the Army Service Corps and Army Intelligence during World War I. The two were married in 1919. Their first son, Anthony, was born in 1920, and their second, Francis, in 1923. Juliette followed Julian in his tenures at King's College and the Royal Institute in London during the 1920s and until 1931, when Julian resigned. During Julian's term as Secretary of the Zoological Society of London from 1935 until 1942, Juliette loved living in their home at the London Zoo. She enjoyed walking among the animals and hearing them at night. In 1946 the couple moved to Paris while Julian Huxley served as Director-General of UNESCO.
Juliette Huxley traveled extensively with her husband throughout the 1950s and early 1960s. She later published Wild Lives of Africa (1963), which was based on her experiences traveling with Julian during 1960 and 1961. The two eventually returned to London, where Julian died in 1975. Juliette Huxley continued living in London, surrounded by her own sculptures and the artwork of their numerous friends from over the years. She continued writing as well, publishing her autobiography Leaves of the Tulip Tree in 1986. She also continued to take notice of advancements in the fields in which her husband was interested, including biology, conservation, humanism, and social evolution. Juliette Huxley's brother-in-law (and Nobel Prize winner), Aldous Huxley and her two sons, among other life-long acquaintances, frequently visited her. Her son Anthony died in 1992, which affected her own health. Juliette Huxley died on September 28, 1994.
The original Rice University Faculty Council was formed as an expansion of the Executive Committee in l959. The members of this group consisted of the President (chairman), the Provost, the Dean of the Institute, the Dean of Humanities, the Dean of Engineering, and six members elected by the Faculty. A re-organization took place again, in 1971, in conjunction with the formation of a University Council. At this point changes were made in the Faculty Council's membership and its mission. Membership now consisted of eight Faculty members elected to serve on the University Council along with eight other Faculty members elected to serve only on the Faculty Council. Their mission was re-defined to initiate studies and examine proposals submitted by faculty members. Most other University matters were to be dealt with by the University Committees and the University Council. In fact, this change shifted greater responsibility to the newly formed University Council and gave the Faculty Council the mission of the now defunct Committee on University Welfare.
General Faculty meetings have been held since the beginning of Rice Institute. Their nature, however, has changed as the University grew in size and complexity. Originally, the entire Faculty, headed by the President of the Institute made all the academic and policy decisions. With a growing number of Faculty members this was no longer feasible and committees were formed to meet the changing needs of the University. Input from the general Faculty was directed to these committees and the committees, in turn, reported their findings to the general Faculty. Decision making also was channeled through committees, earlier through the Executive committee, and more recently through the University Council. The committee, rather than the individual Faculty member, now serves as the advisory body to the President.
The national Phi Beta Kappa Society, America's oldest and most prestigious honor society, was founded in 1776 at the College of William and Mary in Virginia. Membership in the national society is a significant achievement, which honors excellence in the arts and sciences. Election to Phi Beta Kappa is based on outstanding academic performance reflecting a love of learning for its own sake as opposed to narrow technical specialization or vocational preparation. To demonstrate the breadth of their intellectual curiosity, most students will have taken more than the required number of courses and studied in traditional academic fields outside their major.
The Beta Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa at Rice was founded in 1929. Since then, over 2,400 students have accepted membership. In addition, all resident Rice university faculty, students and staff who have been initiated by another chapter of Phi Beta Kappa are regarded as General Members of the Beta of Texas chapter.
Perhaps no other event so represented Rice's emerging role as a national, even international, institution, than its being chosen to host the 1990 Economic Summit of the Industrialized Nations. For three days in July heads of delegations from the United States, Great Britain, Germany, France, Italy, Japan, Canada, and the European Economic Community held talks at Rice, covered by thousands of journalists and communicated to the world. Rice had long hosted major world figures—General Pershing; Presidents (or presidents-to-be) Taft, Hoover, Eisenhower, Kennedy (announcing the goal of going to the moon), Johnson, Carter, Reagan; Sir Harold Wilson; Prince Philip; and the Dalai Lama suggest the range of famous visitors. But never had such an assemblage appeared at one time as during the Economic Summit. Alumni around the globe were thrilled to see on television world political leaders walking through the familiar arches of Lovett Hall.
Excerpted from Dr. John Boles' "A University So Conceived: A Brief History of Rice" (Revised Edition), 1997, p. 81.
The current day Athletics Committee was originally organized in 1916 as the Committee on Outdoor Sports, with William Ward Watkin as its chairman. In 1971, its name was changed to the Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics, and in 1977 the committee was reorganized and renamed the Rice University Athletic Committee (RUAC).
Mission of the RUAC as of 2001: Acting in an advisory capacity to the President, the Rice University Athletics Committee (hereafter called the RUAC) shall have general cognizance of all extramural athletic programs of the University. In performing this function, the Committee activities include the following responsibilities: 1. Formulate recommendations for internal and external policy necessary for the proper conduct of all University athletic activities. This includes continuing review of intercollegiate sports to insure full compliance with laws and regulations of any regional or national governing bodies in which the University holds membership.
1. Formulate recommendations for internal and external policy necessary for the proper conduct of all University athletic activities. This includes continuing review of intercollegiate sports to insure full compliance with laws and regulations of any regional or national governing bodies in which the University holds membership.
2. Specifically the Committee will include the following in its duties in regard to all intercollegiate activity: a. Review the general intercollegiate sport budgets, transmitting its recommendations to the President annually. B: When practical, make recommendations through its chairman concerning the Athletic Director and all athletic head coaching appointments. C: Provide recommendations and guidance in the formation of policies regarding the conduct of the Athletics program. A partial list of current policies in which committee oversight is required includes: i. Need-based financial aid; ii. Form and substance of communication with faculty council, in regard to such issues as graduation rates of student-athletes and academic admissions; iii. Responsibility for oversight audit of athletic eligibility; iv. Compliance with NCAA certification in regard to gender equity; v. Exit interviews of student-athletes; vi. oversight of any policy change by academic departments that may impact the athletic programs. D: Review the recommendations of the Athletic Director on the award of all varsity letters.
3. Make recommendations concerning the use of athletic facilities by on-campus or off-campus groups in conformity with University policy covering facility usage.
Membership: The Committee is composed of 16 voting members, appointed by the President. The Chairman and eight others who shall be faculty members are appointed as follows: Chairman for a three-year term, at the pleasure of the President Eight with 4 year staggered terms. Included among the faculty members will be the Faculty Athletics Representative.
On June 2, 1992, Dr. Richard J. Stoll, Director for the Center for the Study of Institutions and Values, as well as a professor of Political Science, sent a memo to then Rice President George Rupp. In this memo, Stoll suggested that Rice approach then Secretary of State James A. Baker III for the beginnings of a "James Baker Institute". Rupp responded favorably to Stoll's memo and thus the Baker Institute was born.
On March 31, 1993, Secretary Baker gave a speech accepting Rice's offer of an Institute in his honor. While at Rice where he laid down his ideas on the Baker Institute. In this speech, entitled "Ideas Into Action", in which he charged the Baker Institute to "draw together statesmen, scholars and students... and... build a bridge between the world of ideas and the world of action..." These founding words were later used as the building stones for the external architecture of the building.
Between 1993 and 1994, the Baker Institute was coordinated by John Rogers, former undersecretary for management at the Department of State. In August 1994, Rice appointed a Founding Director for the Institute, distinguished diplomat Ambassador Edward P. Djerejian. Ambassador Djerejian served in this post until June 2022 and was replaced by David M. Satterfield.
On October 20, 1994 ground was broken on the Baker Hall building site. Four U.S. Presidents participated in the ceremony (Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan, and George H.W. Bush), setting the bipartisan tone that James A. Baker III had mandated from the Institute's beginning. More information on the Institute's groundbreaking ceremony can be found in the Inaugural Baker Institute report. This was a major step forward for the Institute. As the Founding Director noted: "...the building itself symbolizes, in both form and function, the integrative nature of the Baker Institute. Within its walls the faculty and students of Rice University will interact with visiting scholars and practitioners to address the major issues our nation faces in the future."
The First Associate Director for Academic Programs was selected in 1995 - Dr. Richard Stoll. In January 2001, Dr. Stoll resigned from that position to take on more responsibility as the Associate Dean of Social Sciences at Rice. The current Associate Director is Dr. Allen Matusow.
On October 17, 2003 the Baker Institute celebrated its 10th anniversary with a gala on Jamail Plaza. The gala featured Vice President Richard Cheney as the guest of honor. More than 700 people turned out to raise their glasses in tribute to the occasion.
Largely excerpted from the Baker Institute website, http://bakerinstitute.org/BakerIns/hist_index.htm (accessed on Jan. 9, 2006).
The Presidential Inaugural Committee is charged with the overall planning of the presidential inauguration and the events surrounding it. Twenty-seven college presidents and dignitaries from foreign institutions were in attendance. Karl T. Compton, president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, delivered the principal address, "Dynamic Education". Harry C. Wiess, Vice chairman of the Rice Board of Trustees, inducted Houston into the Office of President. Lee A. DuBridge, president of the California Institute of Technology (Caltech), spoke at a luncheon in the Commons. At a dinner honoring the new president and his wife, addresses were given by Carl M. Knapp, president of the Association of Rice Alumni and by Houston industrialist Jesse H. Jones. Dr. Dixton Wecter, chairman of the Research Group at the Huntington Library, presented a paper.
A precedent for future inaugurations was set when Dr. Houston placed on the steps of William Marsh Rice's statue a wreath honoring the founder of the university.
William Vermillion Houston was born in Mount Giliad, Ohio, on January 19, 1900. He received B.A. and B.S. degrees from Ohio State University in 1920. In 1922, he received an M.S. degree from the University of Chicago, and in 1925, his Ph.D. from Ohio State University.
Houston was a National Research Fellow at the California Institute of Technology, and taught there until he became president of what was then Rice Institute, later Rice University, in 1946. Houston studied in Germany on a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1927, assisting Warner Heisenberg and others in the development of quantum theory.
The U.S. Navy awarded Houston its Medal of Merit for directing development of the first homing torpedo and for supervising scientific studies which helped improve U.S. weapon effectiveness in the area of undersea warfare. Because of his genuine modesty, Houston never wore his Medal of Merit ribbon.
Houston made pioneering efforts in the fields of atomic spectroscopy and solid state theory. He was the author of two books: "Principles of Mathematical Physics" (1934) and "Principles of Quantum Mechanics" (1951), as well as of numerous scientific articles. After having been a fellow of the American Physical Society for many years, he was elected its president in 1962. He also served on the Society council.
Houston was a member of the National Academy of Sciences, serving on its council and on several important committees. He was also a member of the American Philosophical Society and several other scientific and educational associations. He served on the National Science Board and as a trustee of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.
When Houston arrived at Rice in 1946, he greatly expanded graduate study and research. He also initiated a five-year engineering program with greater emphasis on the humanities than had previously existed, and implemented the planned residential college system.
Houston died after a brief illness, in Edinburgh, Scotland on August 22, 1968, while attending the 111th International Conference on Low-temperature Physics at St. Andrew's University.
The Presidential Inaugural Committee is charged with the overall planning of the presidential inauguration and the events surrounding it.
Eighty years after the incorporation of Rice Institute in 1891 came the inauguration of the university's fourth president, Norman Hackerman, former president of the University of Texas at Austin and professor of chemistry.
On Sept. 23, 1971, H. Malcolm Lovett, chairman of the Board of Governors, knocked on the President's House door and presented Dr. Hackerman with the formal summons to appear for his inauguration the following day, starting with a new Rice inauguration tradition based on a ritual used by British universities.
Delegates and special guests representing 175 institutions of higher learning and 50 learned and professional societies attended the ceremonies.
Dr. Logan Wilson, president of the American Council on Education and former Chancellor of the University of Texas, gave an address on "Rice University's Widening Horizons." Professor Harold Rorschach presided at the inaugural dinner, which featured three speakers, representing the arts, science, and letters. Writer / pilot MacKinlay Kantor spoke on "Letters". Geneticist George W. Beadle spoke on "Science and the University". Jack Joseph Valenti, president of the Motion Picture Association of America, spoke on "Art".
William Ward Watkin was born in Boston, Massachusetts, on January 21, 1886. His parents were Fred W. Watkin and Mary Hancock Watkin. Watkin grew up in Pennsylvania, the home state of his mother's family. He graduated from Danville High School in 1903 and entered the University of Pennsylvania, pursuing the study of architecture under Paul Phillipe Cret. Following his graduation in 1908, Watkin spent one year traveling in Europe, principally in England.
Upon his return from Europe, Watkin joined the Boston office of Cram, Goodhue and Ferguson, then one of the most prominent architectural firms in the United States. At the time of Watkin's employment, 1909, Cram, Goodhue and Ferguson had received the commission to produce a campus plan and to design the initial buildings of the Rice Institute in Houston, Texas.
Watkin worked on the development of both the campus plan and the building plan in the office; when construction was to begin, in the summer of 1910, Watkin was sent to Houston to serve as Cram, Goodhue and Ferguson's representative supervisor. In this capacity Watkin not only oversaw the construction of the initial Institute group--the Administration Building, the Mechanical laboratory and Powerhouse, and the North and South residence halls - but most of the Institute's subsequent development: the Physics laboratory (1913-1915), east Hall (1913-1914), West Hall (1915-1916), three proposed President's houses (1913, 1915, 1923-1924), the Field House (1920), the Chemistry Laboratory (1923-1925), a proposed Alumni Hall (1927), two proposed libraries (1927, 1940-1941), and the Founder's Statue (1927-1930). Watkin himself was to design the Faculty Club - Cohen House (1927), Rice Stadium (1938), and the Naval ROTC building (1941). He also served as consulting architect to Staub and Rather in the design and construction of the Fondren Library (1946-1949), M.D. Anderson Hall (1946-1947), and the Abercrombie Laboratory (1947-1948).
As supervising architect, Watkin worked closely with Dr. Edgar Odell Lovett, president of the Rice Institute. Lovett offered Watkin a faculty appointment and the Institute opened in the fall of 1912 with Watkin as instructor in architectural engineering. In the summer of 1916 he was made an assistant professor and in 1922 he became a full professor. In 1914 the architecture faculty expanded to two, and to three in 1915. Rice awarded the first professional degrees in architecture in 1917. Watkin's efforts to provide his students with a thorough course in architectural studies led him to organize a traveling fellowship in 1928. Watkin's academic duties were not restricted to the Architecture department. He was also Curator of Grounds, Chairman of the Faculty Committee on Buildings and Grounds, and Chairman of the Faculty Committee on Outdoor Sports, a position which resulted in his serving a term as president of the Southwest Conference in 1920. At the time of his sabbatical in the 1928-1929 academic year, Watkin resigned the athletic committee post. He remained, however, head of Buildings and Grounds, as his resignation of this post was not accepted by Dr. Lovett. During World War II, Watkin chaired the Committee on Air Raid protection and Civilian defense.
As early as 1912 Watkin was accepting independent architectural commissions. Between 1913 and 1915 he entered into partnership with George Endress of Austin, practicing under the name Endress and Watkin. This firm was dissolved at the end of 1919 and Watkin thereafter practiced under his own name. Also in 1919 Watkin ceased his affiliation with Cram, Goodhue and Ferguson, though he continued to operate, on a commission basis, as supervisor for their Texas projects. In addition to practicing architecture, Watkin consulted on projects, and in 1933 he was appointed to the Board of Architectural Consultants, an advisory group connected with the design of the Federal Triangle in Washington, D.C.
During the teens and twenties, Watkin wrote articles for journals, primarily dealing with Houston, its growth and development, and the implications these held for the city's architecture. Watkin contributed descriptive pieces on the Rice Institute to Progressive Houston and the Southern Architectural Review, Houston's short-lived architectural magazine. Not until the late twenties did he become more involved in research and writing. In 1930 the Rice Institute Pamphlet published a series of lectures Watkin had given on the new architecture in Europe; Pencil Points reprinted these in 1931. Watkin wrote two additional essays for Pencil Points, one published in 1931 on new directions in ecclesiastical architecture, and another in 1932. This former essay was something of a prolegomena to Watkin's first book, The Church of Tomorrow published in 1936. In 1951 Watkin's second book, Planning and Building the Modern Church, was published. At the time of his death he was planning to write a book on architecture in Texas.
Watkin had numerous academic and professional associations. He was a member of the Houston Philosophical Society, the Texas Philosophical Society and the Houston Country Club. Watkin was a charter member of the Rice Institute Faculty Club. He had become a member of the American Institute of Architects in 1913, and was elected to the College of Fellows in 1949. Watkin was a communicant of Trinity Church.
William Ward Watkin died on June 24, 1952 from complications following surgery for a broken kneecap. He was survived by his wife, Josephine Cockrell Watkin, whom he had married in 1933. Watkin had previously been married to Annie Ray Townsend Watkin, who died in 1929. Their three children were Annie Ray Watkin Biehl Hoagland, Rosemary Watkin Barrick, and William Ward Watkin, Jr.
Excerpted from Stephen Fox's 1976 unpublished Guide to the Papers of William Ward Watkin in the Woodson Research Center of the Rice University.
Ray Watkin Strange was born Annie Ray Watkin, May 11, 1915, in Houston, Texas. She is the daughter of William Ward Watkin (1886-1956) and Annie Ray Townsend (1892-1929).
For further information on Ray Watkin Strange and husband Harry Hoagland, see Christopher Hartman's Advance man: The life and times of Harry Hoagland, Boston : Newbury Street Press, 2005.
John H. Wright (1906-1990) attended Central High School in Houston and was a 1928 Rice graduate. He worked for Star Engraving Company and Taylor Publishing Company. He was married to Ruby Gow (d. 1986) and was an avid collector of Confederate printed materials. His passion for collecting resulted in the publishing of "Compendium," a bibliography of printed Confederacy items.
Sir (William) Sidney Smith (1764–1840), naval officer, was born on 21 June 1764 in Park Lane, London, the second son of John Smith of Midgham, Berkshire, a captain in the guards and gentleman-usher to Queen Charlotte, wife of George III.
Smith entered the navy in 1777 and saw action in the American War at Cape St Vincent (16 January 1780) and off the Chesapeake (5 September 1781). In 1785–7 he studied French at Caen before spending a year with the Swedish navy. In 1793 he was posted to Toulon and returned with dispatches after its fall. Smith was given command of the frigate Diamond which he used to conduct partisan warfare along the French coast. He was captured in 1796 off Le Havre and imprisoned in the Temple, Paris. Two years later he escaped and returned to command the Tigre in Levant. The most famous episode in his career came in 1799 when he undertook the defence of Saint-Jean d'Acre (3 March–8 May) and heroically repulsed Napoleon. He died in Paris and was buried in Père-Lachaise.
Excerpted from:
JOHN CANNON "Smith, Sir Sidney." The Oxford Companion to British History. Encyclopedia.com. 8 Aug. 2021
Cooper Kirby Ragan was born on June 15, 1905, in Newton, Texas. He received a Bachelor's of Arts degree (1925) and an LL.B. (1928) from the University of Texas. After admission to the Texas Bar in 1928, he began work as an attorney with Huggins, Kayser, and Liddell in Houston, Texas. He then served as general counsel and director of Kirby Petroleum Company in Houston, Texas (1930-1956). Ragan married Susan Menefree Wilson in 1945. He became a partner in the firm of Ragan, Russell, and Rorschach after 1964, was chairman of the Texas Civil War Committee from 1959 to 1963 and secretary-treasurer of the Jefferson Davis Association. Ragan became a member of the Texas State Historical Association (1946) and served as president from 1970 to 1971. He was also president of the Houston Civil War Round Table and a member of the Philosophical Society of Texas, Sons of the American Revolution, Sons of Confederate Veterans, and the American Law Institute. Ragan wrote numerous articles for professional journals and authored two books, "Josephus Somerville Irvine, 1819-1876: The Worthy Citizen" (1963) and "Massachusetts Bay and the Lone Star State: Shall the Twain Never Meet?"(1971).
Cooper K. Ragan died on December 30, 1986.
Andrew Forest Muir was born January 8, 1916 in Houston Heights, Texas. He earned a Bachelor of Arts degree (1938) and a Master of Arts (1942) from Rice Institute, as well as a Ph.D. from the University of Texas (1949). While in Austin he taught at St. Luke's school and tutored English at the University of Texas (1942-44), also serving as acting director of the San Jacinto Museum of History (1943-44). Muir next traveled to Hawaii where, from 1945 to 1949, he worked as a civilian employee for the U.S. Engineers in Honolulu, Hawaii, taught history at the Iolany School, and later was Educational Advisor to the Commanding General at Schofield Barracks, Hawaii. He served as an Assistant Professor of History at Daniel Baker College in Brownwood, Texas, from 1951-53, before moving on to teach at the Polytechnic Institute, in San German, Puerto Rico for the 1953-54 academic year. Honored as a John Simon Guggenheim Memorial fellow for 1957-58, he then joined the history department at Rice Institute in 1958.
As a historian, Muir published numerous studies on religion and church leaders in Hawaii during the late eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, as well as several studies on free blacks in the Houston area. He also authored "Early Missionaries in Texas"(1941), "Railroad Enterprise in Texas, 1936-1841"(1944), "The Thirty-Second Parallel Pacific Railroad in Texas 1872"(1949), and "Thomas Jefferson Ewing, Texas Ward: Politician" (1952) as well as "Texas in 1837," which he edited in 1958.
Known as an authority on William Marsh Rice, his work "William Marsh Rice and His Institute: A Biographical Study" was edited by Sylvia Stallings Morris and posthumously published in 1972. In addition, Muir contributed to "The Handbook of Texas," "Southwestern Historical Quarterly," the "Historical Magazine of the Protestant Episcopal Church," and the "Tennessee Historical Quarterly," and served as associate editor of the "Journal of Southern History."
Andrew Forest Muir died on February 3, 1969.
Excerpted from The New Handbook of Texas, 1996
Carl Woodring (1919-) was born in Texas, received his B.A. from Rice University in Houston and his M.A. and Ph.D. from Harvard. Dr. Woodring, Woodberry Professor Emeritus of Literature, Columbia University, has been accorded many distinctions including the Phi Beta Kappa award (1972) for his book on William Wordsworth, Politics in English Romantic Poetry, a Ford Foundation grant for 1955-56 and a Guggenheim Fellowship for 1958-59. Considered a renowned authority on the Romantic Period in English Literature, Woodring is the author of numerous articles and books including Politics in the Poetry of Coleridge (1961), Wordsworth (1965), Nature into Art: Cultural Transformations in Nineteenth-Century Britain (1989), (ed.) Table Talk of Samuel Taylor Coleridge for the Collected Coleridge, 2 vols. (1990), and (ed.) The Columbia History of British Poetry (1994).
Charles de Sousy Ricketts was born in Geneva, Switzerland on October 2, 1866. He was known as a book designer, theatre designer, sculptor and painter. His mother was musical; his father a painter of marine subjects. Ricketts spent his early years in Lausanne and London and his youth at Boulogne and Amiens in France. After his mother's death, he returned to London with his father and in 1882 entered the City and Guilds Art School in Kennington, London, where he was apprenticed to Charles Roberts, a prominent wood-engraver. His father died a year later and on his sixteenth birthday he met his lifelong partner, Charles Haselwood Shannon.
Ricketts and Shannon founded an occasional art journal, The Dial (1889-1897) and the two artists also began designing and illustrating books, including Daphnis and Chloe (1893) and Hero and Leander (1894). Ricketts also worked for commercial publishers; his more famous books include John Gray's Silverpoints (1893) and Oscar Wilde's The Sphinx (1895).
In 1894 Ricketts met Llewellyn Hacon, a wealthy barrister, enabling him to realize his dream of being a publisher and he set up the Vale Press (1896-1904). Ricketts designed three fonts and numerous decorations and illustrations. After the closing of the Vale Press in 1904, he designed books for friends such as Katherine Bradley (1946-1914) and Edith Cooper (1862-1913) (pseudonym Michael Field) and Gordon Bottomley (1874-1948).
In 1900, Ricketts took up painting and sculpture. He was elected Associate of the Royal Academy in 1922 and Royal Academician in 1928. Ricketts also produced theatrical designs and was involved in about forty productions, including George Bernard Shaw's St. Joan. He wrote several books on art and other subjects and acted as art consultant to various individuals and institutions
He and Shannon also built up their own collection of paintings, drawings, and antiquities; many are now at the Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge and at the British Museum. Charles Shannon, falling from a ladder, became disabled; this devastated Ricketts who died of a heart attack in 1931 – six years before his friend.
Charles Haselwood Shannon was born in Lincolnshire on April 26, 1863. He attended St. John's School, Leatherhead (1873-1881) and then studied at the City and Guilds Technical Art School, an extension of the Lambeth Art School (1881-1885). It was there he met Charles Ricketts and it was the start of a lifelong friendship. By 1888, they had devised a strategy for their joint career; Ricketts was to provide the income and Shannon perfected his abilities as a painter. In 1897, Shannon sent two paintings and some lithographs to Munich where he was awarded a gold medal. Shannon's self-portrait, The Man in the Black Shirt was completed that year.
Ricketts was the dominant figure in the artistic and literary circle that formed around them in Chelsea (1888-1898) and then in Richmond (1898-1902). Joint activities included their magazine, The Dial (1889-1897), design and illustration of Oscar Wilde's books and wood-engravings for editions of Daphnis and Chloe (1893) and Hero and Leander (1894). They set up the Vale Press in 1896 complemented with a shop where work by Shannon and their friends could be bought.
Shannon had his own lithographic press and he produced a number of works including A Lithograph in White Line (1891), 
Summer (1892), and The Shepherd in a Mist. In painting, his traditional technique, deriving from the Venetians and the English eighteenth century, were the bases of his art. His works include an early success, The Lady with a Cyclamen (1899), a favorite sitter, Kathleen Bruce (1878-1947), is seen as The Sculptress (1904) and in The Winged Hat.
In 1902 Ricketts and Shannon returned to London to live in a flat in a block in Lansdowne Road, Holland Park. Shannon became an active exhibitor, for example at the New English Art Club and the International Society. He was elected Associate of the Royal Academy in 1911 and Royal Academician in 1920.
In January 1929 Shannon suffered a fall while hanging a picture in Townshend House, Regents Park, where they had moved in 1923. He suffered brain damage and never fully recovered. Ricketts sold some works to pay for nursing expenses and more went after Rickett's death in 1931. Charles Shannon died on March 18, 1937.
Excerpted from the Oxford Dictionary of National Biography, 2006.
Sir Edwin Arnold was born on 10 June 1832, in Gravesend, near London. During the last five decades of the nineteenth century, Arnold gained great popularity as an influential London journalist and best-selling poet of the Orient.
Arnold attended King's School in Rochester, King's College in London, and, University College, Oxford. In 1852 he won the Newdigate Prize in poetry for "The Feast of Belshazzar"; the following year, when he was twenty-one, his first book of verse, "Poems, Narrative and Lyrical," was published. In 1854 Arnold married Katharine Elizabeth Biddulph. After leaving Oxford, he taught for two years as a master at King Edward's School, in Birmingham. In 1856, he accepted the position of principal of the government Deccan College at Poona, in the state of Bombay, India. At the same time, he became a fellow of Bombay University, and for the extent of his six-year stay in India, he studied Sanskrit, Persian, Arabic, and Turkish.
As a consequence of his wife's illness (Katharine Arnold died in 1864) and the death of their young child, Arnold left India in 1861 to pursue a new career in England. He applied for a position with the London Daily Telegraph and was accepted. Thereafter, until his semiretirement in 1888, he served as news-, editorial-, and leader-writer, subeditor, and editor of the "Telegraph."
In 1879 Arnold published the long narrative poem,' a romantic rendering of the experiences and ideas of Siddârtha Gautama, later to become the Buddha. "The Light of Asia" achieved astounding commercial success in England and America and, in translation, throughout the world.
Arnold died on March 24, 1904.
Excerpted from: Kogan, B.R. (1985). Edwin Arnold. "Dictionary of Literary Biography: Victorian Poets After 1850," 35, 9-13.
Paul Blouet (1848-1903) was a French humorist and writer best known by his pseudonym, Max O'Rell. Blouet studied piano at the Paris Conservatoire, was educated in Paris at the Ecole Polytechnique, and served as a cavalry officer in the Franco-Prussian War. In 1887 Blouet published John Bull et son file, a work that parodied English characteristics and eccentricities. In 1887 and 1890 Blouet lectured in the United States, where his humorous speeches made him extremely popular. In 1902 he settled in the Champs-Élysées quarter of Paris as correspondent of the New York Journal and wrote in the French newspaper Le Figaro. Blouet died of stomach cancer on 24 May 1903.
Works Cited: Seccombe, T. and Matthew, C.G. (2004). Blouet, (Leon) Paul. Oxford Dictionary of National Biography. Retrieved July 24, 2006 from http://www.oxforddnb.com/view/article/31933
George Cruikshank, born in London on September 27, 1792 to a Scottish painter, Isaac Cruikshank, and his wife, was an English humorist and illustrator. Briefly educated at Edgeware, he is considered by some to be one of the best humorists that Britain ever produced. Cruikshank began his career as a political satirist but moved on to become a book illustrator. He also had a late interest in oil painting, enrolling in the Academy Schools as a student at the age of sixty-four. In his lifetime he created nearly 10,000 prints, illustrations, and plates. His early drawings often featured attacks on Britain's royal family. In the 1820s his preoccupation with political caricature waned, however, as he became more interested in theatrical caricatures and book illustrations. Cruikshank produced some of his best-known work for Charles Dickens, beginning with Sketches by Boz' (1836) and reaching an apex with Oliver Twist, (1838). Grimm's Fairy Tales, Pilgrim's Progress, Paradise Lost, and seven novels by William Harrison Ainsworth were among other works he illustrated.
Cruikshank married Mary Ann Walker (1807-1849) on October 16, 1827. Two years after her death, on March 7, 1851, he married Eliza Widdison. Later in his life, Cruikshank supported the temperance movement, creating prints illustrating the evils of alcohol. Collections of his works are in the British and the Victoria and Albert museums. George Cruikshank died February 1, 1878.
Robert L. Patten, the Lynette S. Autrey Professor of Humanities at Rice University, was born on April 26, 1939 in Oklahoma City. He received his B.A. from Swarthmore College in 1960. He went on to earn an M.A. (1962) and Ph.D. (1965) from Princeton University. After college, Patten lectured in English at Bryn Mawr College, leaving there in 1969 to take a position as Assistant Professor in the English Department at Rice University, where he became a full professor in 1976. In 1991 and 1992 Patten chaired Rice's English Department. The author of dozens of articles and reviews on nineteenth-century British literature, Patten used the materials in this collection to write a two-volume biography of George Cruikshank, entitled George Cruikshank's Life, Times, and Art (vol. 1, 1992; vol. 2, 1996). In 1999 The Guardian, a British newspaper, called Patten's biography one of the best books of the 1990s.
Robert L. Patten was a Fulbright Scholar from 1963 to 1964 and a Guggenheim Fellow in 1980. He was also chosen as a Couper Scholar in 2004, served as president of the Rice University Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa from 1991 to 1994 and 1997 to 2002, and chaired the Dickens Society in 1973 and 1974. Patten has served in numerous capacities at Rice University, including the Sallyport Award Committee (1986-87), the Advisory Committee on Parking (1992-94), and the University Review Board (1982-84). In addition to George Cruikshank's Life, Times, and Art, Patten is the author of Charles Dickens and His Publishers(1978), and editor of George Cruikshank: A Revaluation(1974) and Literature in the Marketplace: Nineteenth-Century British Publishing and Reading Practices (1995). He also serves as editor of Studies in English Literature and founded and briefly edited the periodical Dickens Studies Newsletter.
Begun in the academic year 1920/21, the club served to introduce new faculty wives to the Rice Institute (there were no female faculty members at that time). Later the club also included women faculty members. The Club has served to welcome new women and families to Rice by providing a social venue in an academic setting. Club members were also involved in charitable activities, such as sewing for the Red Cross, knitting blankets for Ben Taub Hospital, as well as having activities for Rice students and parties for faculty children and for club members. At various times in the club's history, interest groups included Arts and Crafts, Bridge, Conversational English for International Students, Play Reading, Psychology, Spanish, French, German, Community Service Handicrafts, Gourmet, Museum Study, Ice Skating, Swimming, Tennis, Rice Tutoring Project Supervisors (of Rice students tutoring elementary school children) each of which planned various programs relevant to their interests. They met for coffees, barbecues, Easter Egg hunts, Christmas dances, and various programs related to their interests groups, often at Cohen House or at the homes of the various members.
The club made donations to the Fondren Library in memory of club members and faculty members who passed away. A Loan Closet was also maintained by the members for the benefit of the International graduate students, who were invited to borrow household items from the closet for the duration of their studies at Rice. Occasionally, the club was a recipient of gifts such as silver, china, trays, bowls, china, and a samovar.
George Cruikshank, born in London on September 27, 1792 to a Scottish painter, Isaac Cruikshank, and his wife, was an English humorist and illustrator. Briefly educated at Edgeware, he is considered by some to be one of the best humorists that Britain ever produced. Cruikshank began his career as a political satirist but moved on to become a book illustrator. He also had a late interest in oil painting, enrolling in the Academy Schools as a student at the age of sixty-four. In his lifetime he created nearly 10,000 prints, illustrations, and plates. His early drawings often featured attacks on Britain's royal family. In the 1820s his preoccupation with political caricature waned, however, as he became more interested in theatrical caricatures and book illustrations. Cruikshank produced some of his best-known work for Charles Dickens, beginning with Sketches by Boz, (1836) and reaching an apex with Oliver Twist, Oliver Twist, (1838). Grimm's Fairy Tales, Pilgrim's Progress, Paradise Lost, and seven novels by William Harrison Ainsworth were among other works he illustrated.
Cruikshank married Mary Ann Walker (1807-1849) on October 16, 1827. Two years after her death, on March 7, 1851, he married Eliza Widdison. Later in his life, Cruikshank supported the temperance movement, creating prints illustrating the evils of alcohol. Collections of his works are in the British and the Victoria and Albert museums. George Cruikshank died February 1, 1878.
Robert L. Patten, the Lynette S. Autrey Professor of Humanities at Rice University, was born on April 26, 1939 in Oklahoma City. He received his B.A. from Swarthmore College in 1960. He went on to earn an M.A. (1962) and Ph.D. (1965) from Princeton University. After college, Patten lectured in English at Bryn Mawr College, leaving there in 1969 to take a position as Assistant Professor in the English Department at Rice University, where he became a full professor in 1976. In 1991 and 1992 Patten chaired Rice's English Department.
Robert L. Patten was a Fulbright Scholar from 1963 to 1964 and a Guggenheim Fellow in 1980. He was also chosen as a Couper Scholar in 2004, served as president of the Rice University Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa from 1991 to 1994 and 1997 to 2002, and chaired the Dickens Society in 1973 and 1974. Patten has served in numerous capacities at Rice University, including the Sallyport Award Committee (1986-87), the Advisory Committee on Parking (1992-94), and the University Review Board (1982-84). He currently is president of the Society for the History of Authorship, Reading, and Publishing. In addition to the definitive biography, George Cruikshank's Life, Times, and Art (1991, 1992 ), Patten is the author of Charles Dickens and His Publishers (1978), and editor of George Cruikshank: A Revaluation (1974) and Literature in the Marketplace: Nineteenth-Century British Publishing and Reading Practices (1995). He also serves as editor of Studies in English Literature and founded and briefly edited the periodical Dickens Studies Newsletter.
Wiess School of Natural Sciences was dedicated in 1979 to honor Harry C. Wiess and Olga K. Wiess. However, Rice has been dedicated to the natural sciences since its inception in 1912. The 2006-2007 General Announcements describe the Wiess School of Natural Sciences as being comprised of biochemistry and cell biology, chemistry, earth science, ecology and evolutionary biology, mathematics, and physics and astronomy.
Naval historian Edgar Stanton Maclay, 1863-1919, was the author of "History of the United States Navy, 1775 to 1894."
Morrison Gunn was born in Edinburgh, Scotland circa 1820. He left Scotland for the United States as an adult  somewhere between the late 1830s and the early 1840s and first lived in Laurens, Otsego County, New York. Subsequent addresses include Cold Water and Ann Arbor, Michigan and Angola, Indiana. He was employed by the American Car Company of Chicago. He was a private in the 129th Regiment of Indiana Volunteers from November 23, 1863, until his discharge on July 10, 1865 in Greensboro' North Carolina.
Jared Ellison Groce, II was born in Halifax County, Virginia, October 12, 1782, the youngest son of Jared Ellison Groce I, and his wife, Sarah Sheppard, a daughter of Colonel Jacob Sheppard of Surrry County, North Carolina. He emigrated to Texas in January 1822 as part of Stephen F. Austin's colony.
Michel Branamour Meynard, Indian trader, entrepreneur and founder of the Galveston City company, was born near Montreal, Quebec, on December 5, 1805. He became a fur trader, working his way south from Detroit to Missouri, trading with the Shawnee and other Indian tribes. He later traded horses and mules for manufactured goods and built and operated a sawmill. He organized the Galveston Company in 1838 and represented Galveston in the fifth Congress in 1840-41.
Francisco Frejes was a Mexican historian born in 1784 in Guadalajara where he became a noted pulpit orator in his vocation as a Franciscan friar. He transferred to the convent of Zacatecas, where he would die in 1845, to utilize its library, which contained many manuscripts from the time of Spanish conquest. In 1835 he was appointed chronicler of the convent and, in 1838, became its superior.
Frejes three most famous publications include "Historia Breve de la Conquista de los Estados Independientes del Imperio Mejicano," "Memoria Historica de los Sucesos mas notables de la Conquista particular de Jalisco per los Espanoles" (1842), and a pamphlet on education. Most of his work was never formally published.
John H. Gibbons was one of ten midshipmen aboard the U.S.S. Jamestown during its 1882 cruise.
Eseck G. Wilber (1840-1864) joined Company K of the 120th New York State Volunteers on August 22, 1862, leaving his father (William S. Wilber), mother (Clarissa) and two siblings (Fremont and Julia) in Cairo, New York. His military service would take him to Fredericksburg, the Second Battle of Bull Run and Gettysburg. Eseck was captured on October 10, 1863 and his letters dated January 24 and January 27 indicate he was held at the Belle Isle Confederate prison in Virginia. Belle Isle, located in the James River, was intended to hold 3,000 but would grow to more than twice that number by 1863. Prisoners were given tents to sleep in; a hospital for prisoners and an iron factory were located on the island, but no barracks were ever built for the prisoners. The enlisted men who survived Belle Isle were later transferred to the Andersonville Prison in Sumter County, Georgia; officers were sent to Libby Prison. Wilber was transferred to Andersonville and died there on September 15, 1864. He is buried in the Andersonville Cemetery.
John H. Gibbons was one of four Cadet-Midshipmen aboard the U.S.S. Adams from 1879 to 1881.
Augusts Ehinger was born in Speyer, Rhein Phlaz, Bavaria, on September 14, 1821 and came to the United States with his parents at the age of twelve. He lived in Ohio, Illinois, and Iowa where he died on January 9, 1881.
Hugh Harleston, Jr. was an electronics technician in the U.S. Navy from 1944 to 1946, working in the operation and repair of radar, sonar, transmitters, receivers, teletype, and telephoto. He is an alumnus of Rice University, receiving a Bachelor of Science in Chemical Engineering in 1947 with postgraduate research studies of cooling tower efficiency. He also received a Master of Arts in Spanish, with honors, at the National University of Mexico in 1949. He has been president of the Mexico Section of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (1963) and the Technology Forecasting Committee at the Mexican Institute of Chemical Engineers (1971-1972). He served as technical advisor to Director General, Mexico's National Commodities Agency (1976-1979). He formed the Uac-Kan Research Group in 1974, which accomplished over 200 archeological field excursions from 1974-1999. With the Uac-Kan, Hugh Harleston organized searches for precalculated sites with 37 finds. His publications include ten technical papers on Teotihuacan and Mayans, five books, and several university lectures. He has also done research in observational astronomy, applied optics, engineering design, philosophy, literature, marketing planning, parapsychology, and archaeoastronomy.
Information taken from Hugh Harleston, Jr.'s Curriculum Vita found on his website http://www.harleston13.com, Feb. 22, 2007.
Neal F. Lane is Senior Fellow in Science and Technology Policy at the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy, and is the Malcolm Gillis University Professor at Rice University and professor in the Department of Physics and Astronomy. Among his many honors, Dr. Lane received the 2013 Vannevar Bush Award from the National Science Board for his service to the nation in science, technology, and public policy. Lane served in the federal government as assistant to the president for science and technology and director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), from August 1998 to January 2001, and as director of the National Science Foundation (NSF) and member (ex officio) of the National Science Board, from October 1993 to August 1998. Before his post with NSF, Lane was provost and professor of physics at Rice University in Houston, a position he had held since 1986. He first came to Rice in 1966, when he joined the department of physics as an assistant professor. In 1972, he became professor of physics and space physics and astronomy. He left Rice from mid-1984 to 1986 to serve as chancellor of the University of Colorado at Colorado Springs. In addition, from 1979 to 1980, while on leave from Rice, he worked at the NSF as director of the Division of Physics. Lane received his PhD, MS, and BS in physics from the University of Oklahoma.
Dr. Samuel A. Greene is largely responsible for amassing this collection during his tenure as librarian of the Massachusetts Historical Society. He was a Civil War veteran, and held his post with the Society from the end of the Civil War until World War I.
The Peninsular War took place in Spain and Portugal (1808-1814) during the Napoleonic Wars. When the French invaded Spain in 1808, an alliance formed between Spain, Portugal and Britain to expel the French Empire from the Iberian Peninsula.
In 1972, the Rice University Space Assignment Committee was established to make recommendations to the President on space assignment in campus buildings where significant changes are requested.
Corporal James K. Lovejoy was a Union soldier. According to his death certificate, Lovejoy enlisted on August 8, 1862, at age 21, was a member of Company B, 3rd Massachusetts Calvary Regiment, and was killed in action on September 19, 1864, at Winchester, Virginia.
Moses Austin Bryan was born in Herculaneum, Missouri in 1817, the son of James Bryan and Emily Austin Bryan (sister of Stephen F. Austin). He moved to Texas in 1831 after his father's death. Bryan became Stephen F. Austin's secretary in 1835, served in the Texas army, and took part in the battle of San Jacinto. He was aide de camp and interpreter for Sam Houston and in 1839 was appointed by Mirabeau B. Lamar as secretary to the legation to the United States under Anson Jones. Bryan died Brenham in 1895.
William S. Glass was a receiver of revenue for the Confederate government in the Texas counties of Victoria, Cameron, DeWitt, and Refugio.
Alexander Hobbs was a 21 year old private, a volunteer recruit in the 42nd Massachusetts Infantry Regiment of the Union Army. He was captured on 1 January 1863 at the Union defeat in the Battle of Galveston, and subsequently held prisoner in Houston. He later proceeded to Union-controlled New Orleans where he remained on parole until the 42nd Massachusetts was officially discharged on August 20 1863.
E. William "Bill" Barnett, former managing partner of the Baker Botts law firm, served as chair of the Rice University Board of Governors 1996 to 2005. Barnett joined the Rice Board of Governors in 1991 as a term member and was elected a trustee in 1994.
As board chair, Barnett led the strengthening of the university's governance, moving from the two-tiered board to a single-tier board enlarged to 25 trustees. Under his leadership, the board elected a far more diverse group of trustees with representation from all parts of the country; the university amended its charter to allow for the use of debt financing, which led to the largest building and modernization program in the campus's history; and the university's endowment grew from $1.7 billion to $3.4 billion.
Barnett succeeded Charles W. Duncan, Jr., who retired after serving as board chair for 14 years. Barnett is also a contributing life member of the Rice Associates, a member of the Rice University Fund Council, and a member of the Friends of Fondren.
Barnett received his B.A. from Rice in 1955 and his LL.B. in 1958 from the University of Texas at Austin. He has led a distinguished career as an attorney and as a civic leader. He is former chairman of the Antitrust Section of the American Bar Association and is a fellow of the American College of Trial Lawyers.
He is past chairman and current board member of the Greater Houston Partnership, past chairman and current board member of Central Houston, Inc. and has served on the board of directors of Texas Commerce Bancshares. He is a trustee of Baylor College of Medicine and a life trustee of the University of Texas Law School Foundation.
Barnett is married to Peggy Mauk Barnett, a 1955 Rice graduate. They have two children, Margaret Ann Barnett Stern and Edward William Barnett, Jr., both of Houston.
The Rice Board of Governors is comprised of seven trustees, eight term governors and four alumni governors. There are also seven trustee emeriti and 47 governor advisors.
[Excerpted from Rice University press release,(http://www.media.rice.edu/media) "Barnett Named Chair of Rice Board of Governors", April 11, 1996]
The Jones Graduate School of Business is named after the late Jesse Holman Jones, a world-renowned business and civic leader. Born in Tennessee in 1874, Jones moved to Dallas in 1891, and then to Houston in 1898. He began his business career overseeing lumberyards and sawmills in East Texas and Louisiana, and soon after branched out into construction and banking as he oversaw the construction of some of Houston's tallest buildings in the early twentieth century. During World War I, Jones served as Director of Military Relief for the American Red Cross. Jones was called on for assistance by Presidents Hoover and Roosevelt, and served as chairman of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation during the Great Depression, overseeing investments in various assistance programs. After serving as Secretary of Commerce during World War II, Jones focused more on his philanthropic efforts, funding various organizations devoted to the arts, environment and human services, as well as museums, scholarships, and student grants, mostly through his philanthropic organization, Houston Endowment, Inc. (excerpted from "Texas Highways," January 2009, p. 5).
The Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business received its initial funding in 1974 through a donation from the Houston Endowment. The Jones school offers multiple MBA degrees as well as an undergraduate minor, and its programs have been recognized throughout the world for fostering innovation and leadership. (excerpted from the Jones Graduate School of Business webpage, http://business.rice.edu/About_School.aspx, accessed June 6, 2011)
Thomas Campbell, a Scottish poet, was born July 27, 1777 in Glasgow. His published volumes include "Pleasures of Hope" in 1799, "Gertrude of Wyoming" in 1809, and Theodric in 1834. He is best known for his war poems, such as "Hohenlinden," "The Battle of the Baltic," and "Ye Mariners of England."
By 1805 he was employed at the Star newspaper. In 1820, he became editor for "The New Monthly Magazine." In 1825, he suggested the London University, playing a large part in its founding, and in 1827 was elected rector of Glasgow University.
Thomas Campbell passed away on June 15, 1844 at Boulogne, and was buried at Westminster Abbey.
Ms. Hattie Lel Red was born January 14, 1894. A native Houstonian, she was the daughter of Dr. C.S. Red, a prominent physician and founder of the Harris County Medical Society. She was the first woman to receive a diploma in the first graduating class at Rice Institute in 1916. She graduated with the distinction in mathematics and later received an advanced degree from Columbia University. She taught high school mathematics, retiring from teaching in 1964 at Lamar High School in Houston. Following retirement she continued active in professional, social, and patriotic organizations. She died October 4, 1990. During the Period of their correspondence Dr. Edward Hake Phillips was Professor of History at Austin College, Sherman, Texas.
Established in the fall of 1968, the Society of Rice University Women promotes an effective and continuing dialogue between the university and its alumnae. Designed as a women's organization with which all could identify after graduation, SRUW also welcomes female friends of Rice to join and participate.
General meetings and seminars feature Rice professors and staff sharing their latest research and technology, as well as news of what is happening on campus.
Proceeds from seminars and dues benefit SRUW Scholarship Endowment Funds for female Rice students, the Fondren Library Woodson Research Center, and the Shepherd School of Music. SRUW is also a source of volunteers for campus activities.
In 1971, Sewall Hall was constructed making space available for a permanent art gallery at Rice University referred to as the Sewall Gallery. Originally the gallery was managed by faculty but soon had the benefit of a full time director. In 1994, it was renamed the Rice University Art Gallery.
The city of Houston has been a home to theater almost since its founding, with the first professional production on June 11, 1838. Since then, the Houston Theater District has grown until it seats the second largest number of people in the country, behind only New York. In 1951, "Houston was the site…of The Playhouse, the first permanent building built in America specifically to be a theatre-in-the-round" (Dauphin, 83). Another historic venue is the Alley Theatre whose growth mirrors that of Houston theatre, evolving from one simple room to hosting two main stages holding 824 and 310 seats. Productions at the Alley tended to be popular, modern plays early on, and it was only later that they leaned towards the classics. Other venues today include the "national AIA prize-winning Jesse H. Jones Hall for the Performing Arts" (Holmes 2), the Miller Outdoor Theatre, and the Hobby Center for the Performing Arts. The Hobby Center is home to Theatre Under The Stars, the "largest non-profit producer of musical theater in America" (About).
Houstonian Ed Oppenheimer collected these programs from the 1900s to the 1990s from various theaters in Houston as well as New York, London, Dallas, and Fort Worth.
John J. Pershing was born September 13, 1860 in Laclede, Missouri. Having graduated from West Point Military Academy in 1886, he fought in the United States military in the Spanish-American War and several Indian Wars. He also served as brigadier general in the Philippines from 1906-1913 and led the attack against Mexican rebel Pancho Villa in 1916. Early in his military career, he served with a black regiment, giving him the nickname Black Jack. For a time, he also taught at West Point.
In 1917 when the United States declared war on Germany, Pershing was chosen to command the American troops in Europe. Pershing can claim two significant victories: the attack on the German's Saint-Mihiel line of defense and the Meuse-Argonne operations, a month after which the Armistice was signed.
Upon returning to the United States, he was given the rank of general of the American armies. For three more years he served in the military as chief of staff until his retirement in 1921.
General John Joseph Pershing passed away on July 15, 1948 in Washington D.C.
Joanna Horner (born 1823) and Susan Horner (1816-1900) were daughters of Leonard Horner (1785-1864), a geologist and social reformer, co-founder of the Edinburg Review and politician. Both were writers on Italian subjects and co-authored Walks in Florence and its Environs (London,1873). Among Susan Horner's works is A Century of Despotism in Naples and Sicily (Edinburg, 1860). Their eldest sister, Mary, (born 1809) was married to the geologist Charles Lyell. Both Joanna and Susan remained unmarried.
David Latimer Tinling-Widdrington was a "Major of Brigade" when this journal commences. He later became a Lieutenant-Colonel in the 2nd Battalion of the 17th Regiment and, in 1812, became a Major-General and was appointed to the staff at Gibraltar. The journal describes the army career of Tinling-Widdrington's son, George Widdrington, who died in 1813 at the Battle of Vittoria. This was the decisive battle of the Peninsular War; it was the last major battle against Napoleon's forces in Spain and opened the way for the British forces under Lord Wellington to invade France.
A.T. Mahan was an American naval officer and historian. He authored the highly influential book, The Influence of Seapower Upon History.
Young M. Moody (1822-1866) was an Alabama businessman before the start of the U.S. Civil War. He joined the army and eventually went with the Alabama 43rd Regiment, which came under the command of Brigadier General Archibald Gracie (1832-1864). The Alabama 43rd was in some of the worst fighting of the war. Colonel Moody was wounded sometime in 1863. When General Gracie was killed on December 3, 1864, Colonel Moody took over command of the Brigade and was promoted to Brigadier General in March 1865. At the war's end General Moody and his family moved to New Orleans where he died of a fever in the fall of 1866.
Elizabeth Land Kaderli was born in 1921 in Dallas, Texas. She attended Lamar High School and was a graduate of the Rice Institute in 1943. She married Robert Kaderli, Jr. after World War II. In 1954, she moved with her husband and daughter to Midland, Texas. She began writing adventure fiction for magazines (often under the name Land Kaderli), published "Twenty seconds to live" (1959), and "A girl and five brave horses" (1961) under the name Elizabeth Land. She worked as a producer for public television, working on "Face to Face," a weekly program on KLRN-TV in Austin, Texas. After the death of her husband in 1971, she moved to Houston, where she produced "The Greenroom," a weekly special for KUHT-TV highlighting art venues and activities throughout the city. After retiring from television in 1985, she moved to San Diego to be near her family. She returned to Houston in 1998 and lived in Houston until her death in 2017.
In the early 1960s she wrote a series of letters to leaders in the fields of art, music, literature, science, religion, medicine and other fields examining the subject of death. Responses to her letters make up the content of this collection.
The John McKnitt Alexander Chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution was formed May 20, 1913 in Houston, Texas. In 1922, it became the first organization to propose and to establish an endowed scholarship at the Rice Institute.
Little is known about C.A. Somerset other than what he says in this 1828 letter where he describes himself as "Dramatist to the Surrey Theatre, and the author Crazy Jane, The Nightingale, The Raven, Swiss Family, etc."
The worst industrial accident in U.S. history took place on the morning of April 16, 1947 when a French freighter carrying fertilizer (ammonium nitrate) on Galveston Bay caught fire and exploded, causing disaster on shore at the nearby Monsanto styrene plant and other petroleum refineries, homes, warehouses, ships and buildings. At least 576 were killed and 4,000 injured, with Texas City being almost completely destroyed.
Monsanto rebuilt the plant, which was only three years old, in order to help supply the nation's synthetic rubber needs during World War II. The plant was bought by Gordon Cain in 1986 and became known as Sterling Chemicals.
Correspondents include Robert M. Morris of Grantham, N.H.; William H. Lane of Texas City; John F. Jacobs of Nashville, TN; and Fred Ruecker. Lane survived the disaster. Morris was Monsanto's Assistant Plant Manager. After being thrown in a Jeep, trapped under it and nearly drowned by a tidal wave, Morris survived and went on to assist in the rescue efforts. Fred Ruecker lost his father, a plant engineer, in the disaster, as did John F. Jacobs. After surviving the disaster, Morris was transferred to Springfield, Massachusetts (1949) and then to St. Louis (1953), going on to eventually settled in New Hampshire.
Morris' daughter Susie Glasscock earned her BA in economics from Rice in 1962 and currently serves on the Rice Board of Trustees. Her husband Melbern Glasscock earned a BSME from Texas A&M in 1959 and his MS in mechanical engineering at Rice in 1961. Mr. and Mrs. Glasscock have been regular students of the School of Continuing Studies at Rice University for almost 30 years. In January 2006, the school was renamed the Susanne M. Glasscock School of Continuing Studies in honor of the Glasscock's endowment gift believed to be the largest endowment gift ever made to a university continuing education program in the United States.
Tennison Bros. Sheet Metal Company was founded in 1891 in Mt. Pleasant, Texas. The company manufactured sheet metal products such as roof ventilators, flues, flue jacks, rainproofs, stove pipes, water tanks, and other materials. In the early 1900s, the company went through a number of changes in ownership and location, and finally was sold to Edward Kelly in 1937. It was called Kelley Manufacturing Company and was based on Franklin St. in Houston until 1938, when it expanded to a former cotton warehouse in the 4900 block of Clinton Dr., Houston. A large office building was also built at that time. The product line enlarged also, including attic fans, floor furnaces, underground garbage containers and industrial stampings.
By 1941, Kelley Manufacturing employed approximately 150 people. When materials were needed to support the effort for World War II, Kelley Manufacturing produced tanks and shoulder carriers for chemical warfare, as well as porthole screens and scoops for naval ships.
In May 1946, Edward Kelley died at the age of 49. The company went on under the leadership of Mrs. E.W. Kelley as President and Mr. H. W. Brown as Exec. Vice-President. Mr. Brown resigned due to ill health in 1949. Various changes in leadership took place over the next ten years. In 1956, E.W. Kelley Jr., age 24, graduate of Rice Institute, moved to Dallas and joined the company in a sales position. In 1957, the company stopped selling to dealers and only sold to jobbers and distributors. Edward Kelley, Jr. took a two year leave of absence to attend Harvard Business School, and returned to the company in June 1959, when Kelley Manufacturing was at a very low ebb. A complete change of management took place at that time.
Edward Kelley Jr. served as President and CEO of Kelley Industries Inc. from 1959-1981. Under his leadership the company flourished, diversifying its product lines, acquiring other companies such as Covey Corporation. In November 1970, Kelley Industries was formed as a holding company for Kelley Manufacturing and Covey Corporation. In 1971, Kelley Data Systems Company was added and Chattanooga Wheelbarrow Company was acquired. The company was sold in 1981.
Excerpted from original source material in Box 1 folder 1 of these records. 
Biographical Note
Kelley graduated from Rice in 1954 and earned an MBA degree from Harvard in 1959. He had been on the Rice University Board of Governors for a decade, he had managed his family's business, Kelley Industries, Inc., for more than 20 years and was chairman of an investment group. In 1987, he was appointed by President Ronald Reagan to serve as a member of the board of governors of the Federal Reserve System.
As a condition of his appointment, Kelley had to resign from other boards, including his lifetime appointment to the Rice board. In his 10 years of service as a governor and then trustee to for Rice between 1977 and 1987, Kelley played a significant role in the university's growth. He was on the buildings and grounds committee that oversaw the construction of several buildings such as the Mudd Building, Herring Hall, Ley Student Center, and Alice Pratt Brown Hall. He chaired a task group that prepared the university's long-range plan for the 1980s and beyond, and was a member of the search committee that chose George Rupp as the fifth president of Rice.
Even before he was on the Rice board, Kelley was active in the university's development. In the early 1960s, he was on a committee that wrote the prospectus for the creation of the Jones Business School. Helping others has been a goal throughout his life. "I have always tried to make time for a very substantial amount of public service work as part of my career," Kelley explained. "And why did I pick Rice? Because Rice has always been in my blood." His mother, Allie May Autry, graduated from Rice in 1925 and his uncle, James L. Autry, graduated in 1922. Autry Court and the Autry House are named in the family's honor. Kelley's first wife, the late Ellen Elizardi, belonged to the class of 1955. His present wife, Janet Haase Kelley, was an administrator at Rice during the 1970s.
Kelley was born in Eugene, Ore., but he grew up a few blocks from the Rice campus, where he rode his bike and watched football games in the old stadium. He majored in American history, went to Harvard, served two years in the Navy, and then came back to Houston to become the chief executive officer of Kelley Industries, Inc. When the company was sold in 1981, Kelley started working in the investment business and became chairman of the Board of Investment Advisors, Inc.
In 1995, Kelley was honored as a Distinguished Alumnus by the Association of Rice Alumni.
Excerpted from Rice News, May 11, 1995, http://www.media.rice.edu/media/NewsBot.asp?MODE=VIEW&ID=6258&SnID=2.
Arthur G. Symonds was the Secretary of the National Reform Union in London, England during the time these letters were received. After the revival of Greek, Serbian, and Bulgarian statehood in the 19th century, the Ottoman lands in Europe that became identified as Macedonia, were contested by all three governments, leading to the creation in the 1890s and 1900s of rival armed groups who divided their efforts between fighting the Turks and one another. In 1912, the allied Balkan states of Bulgaria, Greece, Serbia and Montenegro declared war against Turkey.
A portion of this brief sketch was excerpted from wikipedia, accessed on July 9, 2008, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Macedonia_%28region%29.
The Office of Enrollment oversees the offices of admission, enrollment operations and student financial services at Rice University.
The Richard E. Smalley Institute for Nanoscale Science and Technology was originally named the Center for Nanoscale Science and Technology. In 1993, Professor Richard E. Smalley envisioned the first nanotechnology center in the world. Thus, the Center for Nanoscale Science and Technology (CNST) was born. With full support from the university, CNST was tasked with defining and implementing the nanotechnology initiative at Rice University. CNST set forth a bold objective to provide a venue where researchers from all disciplines of science and engineering can come together to share ideas and discuss their views and prospects of nanoscience, nanoengineering, and nanotechnology. CNST concluded the best way to achieve this objective was to provide the administrative and technical infrastructure to conduct cutting-edge nanotechnology research, sponsor seminars and conferences, advocate entrepreneurism, encourage multi-disciplinary collaborations, connect to external organizations, and support educational initiatives from the kindergarten to the professional level.
Within 8 years, CNST had fostered the formation of a nanotechnology spin-off company (Carbon Nanotechnologies, Inc), received NSF funding for a new nanotechnology center (Center for Biological and Environmental Nanotechnology), and developed a centralized, well-managed equipment collection valued at greater than $10 million (Shared Equipment Authority). Building on this success, CNST began branching out to incorporate technical training, industry partnership, and community outreach. In 2002, CNST held the 1st Annual TunaFest Celebration, an informal venue for industry, academia, and nanotech enthusiasts to network. In just 6 years, TunaFest has grown to over 1000 attendees making it the premier nanotechnology social event of Houston. From 2002 to 2004, CNST advanced nanotechnology education through a variety of initiatives. The NanoKids program, based in Professor Tour's group, brings key concepts of nanoscience to middle school students. Additionally, CNST worked with several departments at Rice University to create undergraduate curriculum, a professional masters program, and continuing education courses in a variety of nanoscience and engineering topics.
While expanding their initiative portfolio, CNST continued cultivating its scientific strengths, fostering 10 spin-off companies, developing 5 unique nanotechnology centers and components, and growing the shared equipment at Rice University to over $12 million. By 2005, CNST supported the research efforts of 100 faculty members with over 400 graduate students spanning 14 departments at Rice University.
In 2005 after the passing of Professor Smalley, the Rice University Board of Trustees renamed the Institute in his honor.
As of 2010, the Smalley Institute included 151 faculty members in 21 departments with over 500 students researching nanotechnology in a variety of societal and scientific arenas including energy, education, aerospace, ethics, and human health; consisted of 5 major centers and components including $15 million in shared equipment and facilities for nanotechnology research; was affiliated with 8 nanotechnology organizations in Houston and around Texas; and collaborated with over 50 associations to promote nanotechnology in all aspects of science and society.
In 2015 the Richard E. Smalley Institute for Nanoscale Science and Technology and the Rice Quantum Institute merged to form the Smalley-Curl Institute (SCI).
(Excerpted from the CNST website, http://cnst.rice.edu/history/, accessed Jan. 3, 2011.)
Richard E. Smalley was affiliated with Rice University from 1976 until his death in 2005, serving as the Gene and Norman Hackerman Professor of Chemistry at Rice beginning in 1982 and Professor of Physics at Rice beginning in 1990. A co-founder of the Rice Quantum Institute in 1979, he served as its chairman beginning in 1986, and was the director of the Center for Nanoscale Science and Technology. He was a member of the National Academy of Sciences (elected 1990), the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (elected 1991), and was the recipient of the 1991 Irving Langmuir Prize in chemical physics, the 1992 International Prize for New Materials (shared with R.F. Curl and H.W. Kroto), the 1992 E.O. Lawrence Award of the U.S. Department of Energy, the 1992 Robert A. Welch Award in Chemistry, the 1993 William H. Nichols Medal, and the 1996 Nobel Prize in Chemistry (shared with R.F. Curl and H.W. Kroto).
Smalley pioneered advances in the development of supersonic beam laser spectroscopy, super-cold pulsed beams, and laser-driven sources of free radicals, triplets, and metal and semiconductor cluster beams. He discovered and characterized fullerenes, the third elemental form of carbon after graphite and diamond, for which he was awarded the Nobel Prize.
Born June 6, 1943, in Akron, Ohio, Smalley received his bachelor's degree in chemistry in 1965 from the University of Michigan, and master's and doctorate degrees from Princeton University in 1971 and 1973.
Ken Kennedy attended Rice University, receiving a B.A. in mathematics (summa cum laude) in 1967. He pursued graduate studies at New York University, where he earned a M.S. in mathematics in 1969 and a Ph.D. in computer science in 1971. He returned to Rice University in 1971 to join the faculty of the Mathematical Sciences Department, rising to the rank of professor in 1980. He founded the Rice Computer Science Department in 1984 and served as its chair until 1988. He was named the Noah Harding Professor of Computer Science in 1985. In 1997, he became the first John and Ann Doerr Professor of Computational Engineering and, in 2002, he was promoted to University Professor. From 1997 to 1999, he served as Co-chair of the President's Information Technology Advisory Committee (PITAC).
Professor Kennedy founded the Rice Computer and Information Technology Institute in 1987 and served as its first chair. In 1989, he established the Center for Research on Parallel Computation (CRPC), a NSF Science and Technology Center, and directed it throughout its lifetime. He directed the NSF-supported Virtual Grid Application Development Software (VGrADS) Project, a collaborative seven-institution research effort focused on application development support for computational grids. He was also the project director of the academic partner contract for the Los Alamos Computer Science Institute (LACSI), which is headquartered at Los Alamos National Laboratory. He directed or co-directed four ongoing multi-institutional consortia: the Los Alamos Computer Science Institute (LACSI); the NSF-sponsored Virtual Grid Application Development System (VGrADS) project; the Gulf Coast Center for Computational Cancer Research (GC4R); and the Houston BioGrid consortium.
Kennedy's research interests included parallel computing in science and engineering, scientific programming environments, and optimization of compiled code. His last work fell into four main project areas: the Telescoping Languages Project; the Grid Application Development Programming Tools effort; research on Compilers and Tools for Scalable Scientific Computing; and the Massively Scalar Compiler Project. He published two books and over two hundred technical articles on programming support software for high-performance computer systems. Over his career, he supervised thirty-eight Ph.D. dissertations and he directed the construction of several substantial software systems for programming parallel computers, including an automatic vectorizer for Fortran 77, an integrated scientific programming environment, compilers for Fortran 90 and High Performance Fortran, and a compilation system for domain languages based on Matlab.
Professor Kennedy was elected to the National Academy of Engineering in 1990. He was named a Fellow of the AAAS in 1994 and of the ACM and IEEE in 1995. In 2005, he was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. In recognition of his achievements in compilation for high performance computer systems, he was honored as the recipient of the 1995 W. W. McDowell Award, the highest research award of the IEEE Computer Society. In 1999, he was named recipient of the ACM SIGPLAN Programming Languages Achievement Award, the third time this award was given.
Professor Kennedy's service to the national community includes time as member (1997-2001) and co-chair (1997-99) of the President's Information Technology Advisory Committee (PITAC). For his leadership in producing the PITAC report, "Information Technology Research: Investing in Our Future," he received the Computing Research Association Distinguished Service Award (1999) and the RCI Seymour Cray HPCC Industry Recognition Award (1999).
Kennedy regularly taught two courses in the Computer Science Department: Computer Science 515 (Advanced Compilation for High Performance Computers) and Computer Science 412 (Compiler Construction). Kennedy also originated Computer Science 314 (Applied Algorithms and Data Structures) and taught it for several years.
Ken Kennedy died after a long battle with cancer, Feb. 7, 2007. "Rice has lost one of its great intellectual leaders and a great human being," Rice President David Leebron said. "Ken Kennedy early on realized the power of computers to address real problems that confront people and the Earth. He leaves a great legacy for Rice and for mankind."
Excerpted from Ken Kennedy home page at Rice University, http://www.cs.rice.edu/~ken/ and news feature http://engr.rice.edu/newsletter/spring07/storypages/feature_story05.html, accessed Feb. 2, 2009.
Engineering has been a part of Rice's curriculum since the university first opened as The Rice Institute in 1912. In those early days Rice offered courses in chemical, civil, mechanical and electrical engineering. Over the years, the engineering program grew, and in 1975 the George R. Brown School of Engineering was established. Today the school is comprised of eight academic departments and includes fourteen research institutes and centers. More than one fourth of Rice students are engineering majors.
Among the more than 100 engineering faculty are six members of the National Academy of Engineering. Virtually all undergraduate courses in engineering are taught by Ph.D. faculty. With a small student-to-faculty ratio, students in both undergraduate and graduate programs not only have easy access to professors in the classroom, but work closely with them in their labs. Departments and centers within the school of engineering take advantage of Houston's role as a center for the energy industry, medical research, space exploration, and the city's rapidly growing high-technology sector. Several departments have active industrial affiliates programs, and many research projects are undertaken with local companies. Students benefit from these relationships through collaborative research projects, summer internships, and making contacts for employment before graduation.
Gloucester, England is a town of approximately 123,000 people in the southwestern part of England. The town lies in the county of Gloucestershire, close to the Welsh border.
Dr. Jerome Cochran, a native of Holly Springs, Mississippi, came to Mobile, Alabama, in 1865. He served as Alabama's first state health officer from 1879 to 1896, gaining a reputation as the state's foremost medical figure in the post-Civil War period and national recognition as a quarantine physician.
Edward Andrew (E.A.) Peden was born on March 5, 1868. He became founder and president of Peden Iron and Steel Company in 1902. He was selected as the Federal Food Administrator of Texas during World War I, and at the request of President Hoover, he traveled to Paris and organized the European Child Relief Bureau of the American Relief Association. In 1923 he received a gold medal from the Houston Rotary Club as the citizen who had performed the greatest disinterested service to his fellow citizens. He was elected to the Rice Board of Trustees in 1922 and died on July 10, 1934.
E.A. Peden purchased Miramichi House, located in Clear Lake, Texas, in 1907 and it served as a weekend, holiday, and summer home for many family members and friends.
Gertrude Maurin graduated from Rice University in 1922. She was a long-time supporter and donor to the Duke Parapsychology Lab, later named the Foundation for Research on the Nature of Man (FRNM) and the Institute for Parapsychology. Maurin had a long correspondence with Dr. Joseph Banks Rhine, head of the institute. Maurin mentioned in her letters both her ESP and her apport experiences. She donated more than $20,000 to the institute over a 20 year span.
William Martin (Ph.D., Harvard, 1969), is the Harry and Hazel Chavanne Emeritus Professor of Religion and Public Policy in the Department of Sociology at Rice. Since his retirement from teaching in June 2005, he serves as the Chavanne Senior Fellow for Religion and Public Policy at the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy at Rice. His areas of specialization include religion, criminology, and issues related to drug use and drug policy. He has been a professor at Rice since 1968.
Professor Martin's recent research and writing have focused in two areas: 1) religious fundamentalism and its impact in the political arena, in the United States and elsewhere; and 2) issues related to drugs, with particular emphasis on ways to reduce the harms associated with drug abuse and drug policy. In this connection, he has organized and chaired a series of programs at conferences at the Baker Institute dealing with these issues.
After several years of experience as a boy preacher, Bill Martin attended Abilene (Texas) Christian University, where he received B.A. (1958) and M.A. (1960) degrees in Biblical Studies and taught for one year as a graduate assistant. He then attended Harvard Divinity School, where he received the B.D. degree in 1963. In 1969, he received his Ph.D. from Harvard, in a program known as Religion and Society, a joint effort between the Divinity School and the Department of Social Relations. His dissertation, Christians in Conflict: The Role of the Clergy in Racial Conflict in Rochester, New York, was prepared under the direction of Harvey Cox, Joseph Fichter, and Thomas Pettigrew. At Harvey Cox's suggestion, he submitted an article based on his thesis to The Atlantic Monthly, which published it as the lead article in its December 1967 issue. Flushed with the pleasure of having his work read by large numbers, Bill Martin began to follow an unusual career path of publishing mainly in high-quality magazines such as The Atlantic, Harper's, Esquire, and Texas Monthly, for which he wrote a three-year monthly series of articles on Texas churches that led to his being the subject of a "60 Minutes" segment in September 1979.
During the 1970s and 1980s, Professor Martin concentrated mainly on religious broadcasters and was one of the first academicians to give serious attention to what came to be known as the Electronic Church. At the end of the 1970s, this led naturally to increased attention to fundamentalist involvement in politics and the rise of the movement known as the Religious Right. This work culminated, after dozens of articles, in his writing "With God on Our Side: The Rise of the Religious Right in America" (Broadway Books, 1996), the companion volume to the PBS mini-series of the same name and for which he served as chief consultant. A revised edition of both the book and the video series appeared in the summer of 2005. His writings on various aspects of evangelical and fundamentalist religion also led to his being given the opportunity write "A Prophet with Honor: The Billy Graham Story" (William Morrow, 1991), regarded as the most authoritative biography of the famed evangelist. An updated version of this book is in progress [as of July 2998]. In addition to these historical and sociological publications, Professor Martin also wrote "My Prostate and Me: Dealing with Prostate Cancer" (Caddell and Davies, 1994), an account of his own successful bout with this disease. As a result, he has appeared on more than 150 radio and television programs to discuss prostate cancer and regularly counsels with men and families touched by the disease.
More recently, as noted above, Bill Martin has taken an active role in the Baker Institute, organizing and chairing programs and conferences on the impact of religion, particularly various forms of fundamentalism, on public policy, and on ways to reduce the harms associated with drug abuse and drug policy. Many of these papers are available on the Baker Institute website.
Bill Martin received a number of teaching awards during his years as a professor, including the George R. Brown Life Honor Award, which made him ineligible for most additional awards given by Rice. At age sixteen, he decided to become a college professor as a consequence of exposure to particularly inspiring and dedicated teachers he encountered during his freshman year in college. As he enters partial retirement after more than thirty-seven years at Rice, he still regards it as a fine decision.
Recent Publications
* "With God on Their Side: Religion and American Foreign Policy'" Chapter 11 in Hugh Heclo and Wilfred M. McClay, Refurnishing the Public Square: Religion and Public Policy in Twentieth-Century America, (Woodrow Wilson Center/Johns Hopkins University Press, 2003). * "Amen," Texas Monthly, December 2002. Billy Graham's October 2002 Metroplex Mission. * "Embracing the Lite" in Arvind Sharma, editor, Religion in a Secular City: Essays in Honor of Harvey Cox. Trinity Press International, 2001. * "With God on Their Side," Georgetown Journal of International Affairs, Winter/Spring 2000, pp. 7-14. * "Billy Graham," Christian History, 65 (Vol. XIX, No. 1), Spring 2000. Pp. 12-16 * "The Christian Right and American Foreign Policy," Foreign Policy, Spring 1999, pp. 66-80.
The Center for Research in Parallel Computation was founded by a National Science Foundation grant in 1989 with the goal of making massively parallel computing systems as usable as conventional supercomputing systems. The CRPC is a consortium of seven cores sites around the nation - Rice University, Argonne National Laboratory, Los Alamos National Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, Syracuse University, University of Tennessee, and University of Texas - as well as nine affiliated sites: Boston University, Indiana University, the Institute for Computer Applications in Science and Engineering, University of Illinois, University of Maryland, University of Houston, University of California, University of South California, and Drexel University. More than fifty Ph.D. research scientists and eighty graduate and undergraduate students participate in research programs and projects.
The CRPC in the 1990s mainly focused on five projects, two in software and three in algorithms. These included the Fortran Parallel Programming System Project, led by Ken Kennedy, scientific director of the CRPC, the Compositional Programming System project, led by Mani Chandy, the Linear Algebra Project, led by Jack Dongarra, the Optimization Project, led by John Dennis, and the Differential Equations Project, led by Andy White and Herb Keller. The CRPC also provided funding for visiting academic scientists engaged in research in related fields, led topical workshops and educational seminars throughout the year, as well as sponsored programs aimed at recruiting young students, especially women and minorities, to the realm of computer science.
Rice began playing organized football against outside opponents in 1912 under the direction of Philip H. Arbuckle, who taught English and History. (It was fairly common until after World War II for faculty to coach athletics teams. For example, Knute Rockne, coach at the University of Notre Dame from 1918 to 1930 and perhaps the most legendary figure in college football history, was a chemistry professor.) In 1914, Rice participated in forming the Southwest Conference (SWC) and played its first full schedule against collegiate competition. The school's early teams, coached by various faculty members, comprised regularly enrolled students and were consistently mediocre on the playing field. In 1924, however, the Committee on Outdoor Sports, chaired by William Ward Watkin, hired John W. Heisman to coach Rice football and serve as Athletic Director. Heisman's hiring provoked immediate controversy among the faculty; although he would be in residence only for the football season and spring training, Heisman's salary far exceeded that of full-time faculty members, some of whom were among the most distinguished scholars in the world. Heisman also began attracting students from the northeast, specifically to play football, at a time when the notion of "recruiting" was still controversial, and even scouting other teams was regarded as dishonorable.
Faculty unease, as it would turn out, was as justified by the number of recruited athletes who failed classes as it was by the Heisman-led teams' poor records on the gridiron. (Heisman teams, 1924 to 1927, were 14-18-3.) Strict regimentation of the athletes' daily lives helped academic performance somewhat, but the teams continued to falter on the field, and Heisman resigned after the 1927 season.
Wrestling with issues of academic standards, losing records, and an increasingly onerous financial situation, the Rice Board, faculty, and administrators chose—far from unanimously—a new tack in 1928. The faculty approved the creation of a department of Physical Education. This department offered a program leading to a Bachelor of Science in Physical Education (P.E.), consisting largely (but not entirely) of courses in P.E., coaching, and business. Supporters of the program argued that, although the requirements for a degree in P.E. were obviously different from those in other academic areas, the standards could be just as high. This argument carried the day with the majority of Rice professors. For its part, the administration was satisfied by the trustees' agreement that the costs of this program would be covered solely by contributions from the Houston business community and the guarantee that the 40 students enrolled each year would be in addition to the regular class of 400. No money would be taken from the academic needs of the school; no 'regular' students would be denied admission.
Rice saw more athletic success in the wake of this change. Apart from one truly disastrous season in 1933 when eight varsity players were suspended for Honor Code violations, the football team did well, winning the SWC Championship in 1934, again in 1937, and playing in their first Cotton Bowl in 1938. The basketball, track, golf, and tennis teams were also frequent winners during this period. As might be expected, the increased success led to increased visibility in the Houston community. As the teams attracted many more spectators, it became clear that Rice needed a new football stadium to replace its undersized facility. Rice had been financially constrained since the mid-1920s, though, and this condition worsened in the 1930s. Struggling to improve its academic position, Rice could not afford to divert funds to such a project. Again, the trustees turned to the Houston community, which provided money to renovate and expand the stadium.
As the United States moved closer to war in 1939, and after a 1-9 season, the Committee on Outdoor Sports fired Coach Jimmy Kitts and hired in his place Jess Neely from Clemson University. Eventual entry into World War II in 1941 did not halt SWC play, but the loss of students to the armed forces created "patchtogether" football teams and predictably erratic results. In other sports, though, Rice faired better. In track and field, Fred Wolcott, Bill Cummins, and Bill Christopher amassed eight individual event NCAA titles between 1938 and 1946. Rice basketball also saw NCAA tournament appearances in 1940 and 1942 and a National Invitation Tournament (NIT) tournament appearance in 1943.
After the war, Rice experienced renewed football success, adding another SWC title in 1946. Basketball and tennis also performed reasonably well, with regularly competitive teams in the conference. Neely's football team contended almost every year, rising to fifth in the national rankings in 1949 after a Cotton Bowl victory over North Carolina. This success continued into the 1950s, with additional SWC championships and Cotton Bowl appearances after the 1953 and 1957 seasons. With Rice adding a SWC men's basketball championship and NCAA basketball bid in 1954 under Coach Don Suman, other Rice sports also began to receive national attention. Interestingly, baseball was not one of the success stories in the 1950s, with Rice teams struggling to stay above .500 throughout the period. In a city with no professional sports franchises, Rice games drew large crowds, and ticket scalping even became common. To meet the increased demand, Rice considered another renovation of its facilities. Instead, the trustees chose to build two completely new venues: the present Rice Stadium and Autry Court (a new multi-purpose indoor facility), both completed in 1950. With two new world-class facilities and successful seasons in many sports, Rice athletics looked well positioned to build on its success as it entered the 1960s. However, two changes in the environment, both with negative implications for Rice, would make that increasingly difficult.
First, Rice began to lose its ability to keep up with rivals such as the University of Texas and Texas A&M University. Huge enrollment increases at those schools created a giant advantage in recruiting. The 1965 re-adoption of the "twoplatoon" system in football—the practice of having separate offensive and defensive players—and the growing importance of expensive training facilities exacerbated this scale difference leaving Rice at a considerable disadvantage. (The two-platoon system of free substitution was originally instituted in 1941, outlawed in 1952, and re-instituted in 1965.) Second, the Houston Oilers began to play professional football in 1960. Fans began to trickle away, and then left in droves as the popularity of the fledgling American Football League grew. Jess Neely also retired in 1966 after coaching the Owls for 27 seasons. Over the next 18 years, Rice had nine football coaches, and by the late 1970s, Rice teams regularly struggled just to compete. The 1977 season was an example of how difficult it had become to build consistent teams: the football team, quarterbacked by All-American Tommy Kramer went 3-8, and the basketball team went 4-22. In effect, these changes were the beginning of what has become a fundamental structural change in the competitive context for Rice. Competition for an audience, Rice's size, and its ongoing efforts to build a national academic reputation, contributed to Rice's transformation from successful contender, to occasional competitor, to "cellar dweller" in many sports.
The 1960s and 70s also saw changes in the way athletics were viewed on campus. The program in Physical Education was re-evaluated in 1960 by a faculty committee. This review led to the adoption—again amidst substantial controversy—of a new program that (many inferred) was just for athletes. The Commerce Department offered a program focused on practical business courses, including finance, marketing, and management. From the beginning, its presence at a school that was beginning to make real strides in academics and research was perceived as an anomaly. Consistent lack of success on the playing field made some Rice constituents question the overall value of the athletics program as well. Self-studies in 1964 and 1974 and the appointment of an Athletics Review Committee in 1971 brought renewed controversy over athletic admissions, and in 1975, Rice's faculty voted to eliminate the Commerce Department, ending what was regarded by some as a formal sheltered course of study for athletes.
In the 1980s, six of nine SWC schools were placed on NCAA probation for various violations in their football programs. Although Rice's reputation remained spotless, these violations tarred the reputation of the conference as a whole, led to more difficulties in recruiting, and caused a loss of national television coverage. Intermittent turmoil on campus over the academic performance of athletes also continued. Rice's 1984 Self-Study and a 1992 Athletics Review Committee report again worried over the differential admissions criteria for athletes and non-athletes, leading to the adoption of some reforms in the way recruited athletes were admitted.
In 1992, the University of Arkansas defected to the Southeastern Conference in search of better television revenues. The remaining SWC members, facing continued participation in a highly regional conference with little national appeal, disbanded in 1994 with national powerhouses like the University of Texas and Texas A&M University joining strong conferences such as the Big 8 (now the Big 12), and the competitively weaker schools such as Rice and Texas Christian University casting about for good options.
With few reasonable alternatives, Rice ultimately entered the Western Athletic Conference (WAC) in 1996 and was immediately confronted with a new set of problems. The lack of traditional rivalries brought an even greater loss of fan interest, and far-flung competitors led to increased travel expenses. Subsequently, the WAC also suffered it's own problems, splitting into the current WAC and the 8 team Mountain West (Utah, Air Force, Brigham Young, Colorado State, New Mexico, San Diego State, UNLV, and Wyoming). This left a far weaker conference with amplified geographic problems that forced Rice to the west coast and Hawaii more frequently and removed from the conference any schools that resembled Rice academically.
Rice's move to Conference-USA (C-USA) in 2005 was, in part, an attempt to re-engage with traditional rivals like Southern Methodist University, Texas Christian University, and the University of Houston, while addressing the current budget impact of traveling to such WAC schools as the University of Hawaii and California State University at Fresno. However, at least one of these planned rivalries will not occur as TCU moved from C-USA to the Mountain West conference. Regardless of how these new conference affiliations play out, one thing is certain: the future of Rice sports will be built internally on the same rich character and competition that has been the hallmark of its history. External factors, particularly the changing nature of intercollegiate competition, may prove far more challenging as Rice seeks to maintain its place in top tier sports.
Organizational sketch excerpted from "Intercollegiate Athletics at Rice University," Board of Trustees Athletics Subcommittee, April 2004. Call # WRC LD 4711 .R292 I58 2004. Also known as the McKinsey Report, for the name of the firm who was contracted by the university to assist in researching this topic.
J.H. Bastide, is probably John Henry Bastide, a British army officer and military engineer. In 1711, while still a boy, he was commissioned an ensign. He remained a lieutenant for well over 20 years, perhaps in part because of his decision to serve as a military engineer. At the time of this letter (May 1743), he was in Boston, aiding Governor William Shirley of Massachusetts in the construction of local fortifications. During the Seven Years War, he assisted in the defense of the fortress Louisbourg located at the site of a French settlement in Nova Scotia on Ile Royale now known as Cape Breton Island. He went on to become a lieutenant-general in April 1770. His name does not appear on the 1771 War Office list of officers, so he may have died in 1770. Retrieved from the Dictionary of Canadian Biography Online on November 14, 2007 from http://www.biographi.ca
The Dean of Undergraduates at Rice University is responsible for overseeing and bringing together the many components of undergraduate life. This is achieved by addressing both the academic as well as the noncurricular aspects of student life through a variety of programs and resources, with the ultimate aim of creating a comprehensive undergraduate experience. Areas of responsibility include academic advising, career services, judicial affairs, student affairs, student health, student recreation, undergraduate research and fellowships, and international programs.
Robert Crain authored this letter to the public in order to describe what happened during a gunfight on September 19, 1827. Crain's statement was written in response to a newspaper article that he claimed contained false information, and this statement was his way of telling his side of the story.
According to Crain, he was asked to attend a duel between his friend Dr. Maddox and his opponent, S.L. Wells, at a location near Natchez, Mississippi. After the duel ended (with no deaths or wounds), a gunfight broke out among the supporters of each dueler, who had been watching the fight. James "Jim" Bowie attended the duel in support of his friend S.L. Wells, and ended up fighting in the brawl that ensued with his soon-to-be famous Bowie knife. The brawl ended with the deaths of General Cuny and Major Norris Wright, and several other men, including Robert Crain, were wounded.
The main portion of this collection focuses on the families of Dresel and Spiess. Gustav Dresel (1818-1848) came to Texas in 1837, and while in Galveston, served as business agent of the Society for the Protection of German Immigrants into Texas. His brother Julius (1816-1891) immigrated to Texas in the fall of 1848 and settled near Sisterdale on the Guadalupe River.
Hermann Spies was born circa 1818 in Offenbach, Hesse-Darmstadt, Germany, the son of Luise (Werner) and Johann Balthasar Spiess. Coming to Texas in 1848, Hermann Spiess settled near Waco Springs. In 1851 Spiess married a Mexican woman who had been held captive by Indians and together they had ten children, three of whom died in infancy. In 1867, however, he moved with his family to Missouri where he remained until his death. While in Texas, he encouraged German immigration into the state by being a member of the "Association of Noblemen" and a land commissioner.
William Motherwell, Scottish poet and editor, was born in Glasgow in 1797. He studied classics at Glasgow University from 1818-1819 before becoming Sheriff-clerk at Paisley. He later was deputy Sheriff-clerk of the county of Renfrewshire from 1819-29. Motherwell always wrote in his spare time and in 1828 undertook to edit the 'Paisley Magazine'. From 1828-1830 he also carried out the editorial duties of the 'Paisley Advertiser'. After 1830 the poet moved back to his native Glasgow and worked, again in an editorial capacity, on the 'Glasgow Courier' until his death. In 1835 Motherwell helped produce an edition of Burns' poetry along with a small biographical account of Burns. A self-confessed participant in the Orange movement, Motherwell was called to London in 1835 to testify before a special committee set up to investigate Orangeism. His performance before that tribunal was confused and perhaps showed signs of mental instability. He was returned to Scotland almost immediately. He died of apoplexy soon after. The year was 1835.
No information is currently available on the artist.
Frederick William Heitmann was born in Potsdam, Germany, in 1828, but lived most of his life in Houston, Texas, as did his wife Mary Mathilde (Erhard). In 1865, Mr. Heitmann opened a heavy metal and hardware store in Houston, Texas, at 113 Main Street, where it stayed for 81 years. Mr. Heitmann died in 1889. In the early 1870s, Mr. H.S. Fox, then president of the Houston National Bank, became a partner in Houston's oldest hardware store and its name changed to Fox and Heitmann. In 1903 the firm was incorporated under the name F.W. Heitmann and Company. At that time the founder's son, Frederick A. Heitmann became president of the company. Originally hardware establishment, the firm soon became a major post-Civil War importer of all lines of heavy hardware, tools, bar iron, tin plates, etc. from England and Germany. As the company grew it added major lines of domestically manufactured heavy machinery and became a major provider of products for rice growing and cotton ginning in the Southwest. It also furnished heavy equipment to the railroads and to the city of Houston.
Samuel H. Gardiner was an attorney based in Sag Harbor and New York City.
Alexander J. (A.J.) Dessler earned a B.S. in Physics from Caltech and a PhD in Physics from Duke University before spending seven years in Space Physics research at Lockheed Missile and Space Company. He then became a professor of Space Physics and Astronomy at Rice University, where he would remain for the next 26 years. He was selected as the chairman of Rice's Space Physics and Astronomy department, making him founder of the nation's first Space Science department. He was also named Manager of Campus Business Affairs in 1974. Dessler was a very popular professor at Rice and he taught his classes using the Keller method, a teaching method on which he led several conferences. Dessler was appointed President of the Universities Space Research Consortium and he was also appointed to the Space Science and Technology Panel of President Nixon's Science Advisory Committee (1972). He also served as the Editor of the Journal of Geophysical Research-Space Physics (1965-1969), JGR-SP (1969-1974), and the Geophysical Research Letters (1986-1988). He was also named Space Advisor to the Executive Secretary of the National Aeronautics and Space Council; furthermore, he served as Director of NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center's space lab for four years. Dessler was awarded with the John Adam Fleming Medal for original research and technical leadership in science in 1993.
Keith McGee of Garland, TX was among 25 winners of a contest in which some 3,500 high school students proposed experiments for the following year's Skylab Mission. The nationwide scientific competition was sponsored by the National Science Teachers Association and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). The winning students, along with their parents and sponsor teachers, visited MSFC where they met with scientists and engineers, participated in design reviews for their experiments, and toured MSFC facilities. Of the 25 students, 6 did not see their experiments conducted on Skylab because the experiments were not compatible with Skylab hardware and timelines. Of the 19 remaining, 11 experiments required the manufacture of additional equipment.
Donald Norman Levin was born on February 1, 1927, in Rochester, New York. He received a bachelor's degree in French Literature and a master's degree in Classics from Cornell University, and then went on to Harvard to receive a doctorate degree in Classics. Dr. Levin taught at Cornell, Reed College, Harvard, Washington University and Mount Holyoke College before moving to Houston to teach at Rice. Dr. Levin arrived at Rice University in 1963, and would remain a Rice professor for 28 years. He produced a large volume of work during his career, including two books, two monographs, and several translations of classical works. He also authored numerous papers, over 30 of which were presented at classical society meetings and published in anthologies. He was a poet as well as a research writer, and sixteen of his poems were published. Dr. Levin died on November 23, 1991 at the age of 64.
Dr. Patricia H. Reiff is a Professor in the Department of Physics and Astronomy at Rice University. She served as Editor of EOS: "Transactions of the American Geophysical Union" publication from 1986-1989. She is also a Fellow of the American Geophysical Union and Director of the Rice Space Institute.
Arthur Goddard and J.S. Wood were editors of "Lady's Pictorial" and "The Gentlewoman" respectively. Both of these periodicals were published in London during the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
The "Greek Committee" was formed at the outbreak of the Greco-Turkish war of 1878-1897. Originating in Great Britain, the committee's purpose was to promote support among Britons for Greece against the "despotic power" of Turkey.
Richard John Strachan was born on October 23, 1760. He entered the Royal Navy in 1773 and subsequently served on various ships in the East and West indies and on the North American Station. On the death of his uncle on December 26, 1777, he succeeded to the baronetcy. At the time of this letter he was captain of the H.M.S. Phoenix. He later rose to the rank of Admiral. He died on February 3, 1828.
Sir Francis Cowley Burnand (1836-1917), was a talented and prolific comedic writer. He began writing stage pieces while at Eton College from 1851-1854. He then moved on to Trinity College, Cambridge University, for three years. He entered the seminary soon after, but decided his true vocation was as a comedic writer for the stage. Burnand authored over one hundered farces, burlesques, pantomimes, light musical pieces, and melodramas. He collaborated with both W.S. Gilbert and Arthur Sullivan. He also wrote for the comic periodical "Fun." Mark Lemon, the founding editor of "Punch," recruited him as a regular contributor in 1863. Burnand worked at "Punch" for forty-three years. He was knighted in 1902 - the first time a "Punch" writer had been so honored. After his forced retirement from the magazine in 1906, Burnand toured England with a lecture entitled "Nearly Fifty Years of Punch." His memoirs, titled "Records and Reminiscences," were published in 1903.
Biographical information excerpted from "Encyclopedia of British Humorists, Geoffrey Chaucer to John Cleese," volume 1, A-K., page 169. Garland Publishing, New York and London, 1996.
Joseph L. Chester was born in Norwich, Connecticut in 1821. After a brief school-teaching experience in Ballston, New York, he removed to New York City where he became interested in politics and then journalism. In 1845 he moved to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania where he spent the rest of his life. He was a poet, writer, City Council member, anti-slavery spokesman and an avid genealogist. He died in 1882.
Letters are to and from various high-ranking officers of both the U.S. Army and Navy.
Nothing is known about Dr. Charles Baldwin, M.D., other than that he lived in Union, Monroe County, Virginia, in the mid-1840s.
Samuel Minturn Peck was born in Tuscaloosa, Alabama in 1854. He attended the University of Alabama and obtained a masters degree in Literature, and he went on to medical school in New York, were he obtained an MD in 1878. However, he never practiced medicine but eventually returned to Tuscaloosa to write and publish short stories, poems, and articles. In 1930, Peck became Alabama's first Poet Laureate, and he held this position until his death in 1938.
Eduard von Bauernfeld (1802-1890) was an Austrian dramatist who authored comedies and farces that addressed the social and political issues of the times. He ranked high among the German playwrights of the century, and he also wrote several essays. Prior to his career as an author, he worked for the Austrian government in a legal capacity; however, during this time he wrote several pieces harshly criticizing the government.
The first editor of the Sussex Owl was A. Nicols, Esq., who produced the first issue on September 10, 1866. Mr. A. Lot was apparently editor and publisher by the time the ship arrived at its destination.
Major Sanderson was a mounted rifleman in the U.S. Army who served on the western frontier and then in the Mexican War. In the summer of 1853, while awaiting a steamer to Galveston, he contracted yellow fever. After a time he seemed recovered, and proceeded to Galveston, where he suffered a relapse of the fever and died.
William V. Ballew, Jr., a Houston attorney, served as Chairman, Board of Trustees, Houston-Harris County Economic Opportunities Committee, an organization that initiated welfare programs as part of President Lyndon Johnson's War on Poverty. He was born in Abilene, Texas in 1928, attended Rice University, and served in the US Navy during world War II. He was co-chairman of President Johnson's 1964 election campaign in Harris County and throughout much of the 1960s and 1970s was also active with the Texas Bill of Rights Foundation, a group dedicated to the debate and discussion of public issues.
British novelist William Black (1841-1898) was born in Glasgow. He was first employed as a journalist in Glasgow and later in London, and became a war correspondent during the Austro-Prussian War of 1866. He subsequently gave up journalism for a career as an author, chiefly of novels.
Alexandre Dumas, père (French for father, similar to Senior in English), born Dumas Davy de la Pailleterie (July 24, 1802 – December 5, 1870) was a French writer, best known for his numerous historical novels of high adventure which have made him one of the most widely read French authors in the world. Many of his novels, including The Count of Monte Cristo, The Three Musketeers, and The Man in the Iron Mask were serialized, and he also wrote plays and magazine articles and was a prolific correspondent.
Harold Albert Wilson was born in York, England on December 1, 1874. Wilson's interest in engines and machines came from playing with a working model of a railway locomotive his father gave him about the time he entered kindergarten. Under the influence of his father, he began to experiment with chemistry at an early age when Wilson received Bloxham's Chemistry from him and bought a box of chemical apparatus from a pawnshop. Later, Wilson taught himself glass blowing which he admitted helped him in much of his research.
He graduated from a private preparatory school called St. Olave's at age 17 but stayed on as a mathematics teacher for two years. Afterward, he attended Victoria University in Leeds where he studied mathematics, physics, chemistry and biology. Wilson received first class honors in chemistry in the London intermediate B.Sc. and scholarships from both London and Leeds for two years. Three years later, Wilson obtained a first class in the ordinary London B.Sc. in applied mathematics, chemistry, and physics. While studying in college, he was able to conduct more research and published a small paper in the Chemical News on the size of atoms. He also worked with professors at Cambridge on the conductivity of flames containing salts. In 1897, he decided to work under J. J. Thomson at the Cavendish at Cambridge for a research degree which he received in 1899. Afterward, Wilson went to Berlin to work in a laboratory until he received the Allen Scholarship to go back to Cambridge eight months later. In 1901, he was awarded the Clerk Maxwell Studentship and elected to a Fellowship in Trinity College. In 1904, he received a vacant Lectureship at King's College in London where he was soon appointed as Chair. From the Principal, Wilson was able to receive money to increase the space for research at King's College. In 1906, Wilson was elected as a Fellow of the Royal Society. In 1909, he accepted a professorship in Applied Physics at McGill University in Montreal.
In 1912, the new Rice Institute of Houston, TX offered Wilson a Professorship which he took partly because he was interested in helping to start a new university. At that time, the physics department was temporarily housed in the mechanical building until 1914 the physics building proper was finished under Wilson's supervision. It came with an apparatus and teaching cost of several hundred thousand dollars. During WWI, Wilson assisted the United States Navy as a technical expert on anti-submarine devices. Wilson invented binaural listening devices for locating submarines. He published a paper at New London, CT which provided much insight on sound receivers. Shortly after accepting his position at Rice Institute, Wilson married Marjorie Patterson Smyth, who was a gold-medalist in mathematics and physics at McGill, by whom he had two sons and two daughters.
Wilson quickly gained a high reputation as a teacher at Rice and established a research school which also gained a high reputation as it grew. In 1925, he left Rice Institute for Chair of Natural Philosophy in Glasgow; however, the pensions offered at British universities were not satisfying to Wilson's needs so he accepted President Lovett's offer to come back to Rice. He was offered his professorship back which also came with a position as a consultant physicist to Humble Oil and Refining Co. He was naturalized as a U.S. citizen in 1931. During World War II, Wilson was one of the senior scientists to develop the atomic bomb in Chicago.
Wilson was appraised as an excellent teacher by both his colleagues and students. He also enjoyed teaching immensely and was loved by his students. He retired in 1947, at age 70 but continued teaching a small class out of his home in special and general relativity until his late 80's. Wilson's work was a contribution to the development of Rice Institute to a University making Rice an important center for research.
Joseph Priestley (1733-1804) English chemist, Nonconformist minister, and voluminous writer, was born on March 13, 1733, in the West Riding of Yorkshire. In 1772, after a series of clerical appointments, he was chosen a foreign associate of the French Academy of Science and accepted a position as librarian and literary companion to Lord Shelburne. He emigrated to America in 1794, settling in Northumberland, Pennsylvania.
John Galsworthy (1867-1933) was a playwright and novelist educated at Harrow and New College, Oxford. He was called to the bar (Lincoln's Inn) in 1890 and published his early novels under the pseudonym of John Sinjohn. He wrote The Man of Property (1906) and The Forsyte Saga (1922) along with many other works including the trilogy A Modern Comedy in 1929. Some of his more successful plays include: The Silver Box (1906), Justice (1910), and The Skin Game (1920). John Galsworthy was awarded the Order of Merit in 1919 and the Nobel Prize in 1932.
William H. Nelson began his study of the Tories as a graduate student at Columbia University. After graduate school, he continued his research which resulted in his work "The American Tory".
Konstantin Kolenda was born in a small town in eastern Poland on May 17, 1923. When Poland was invaded by Germany, he was taken to Germany to work in an optical factory; later, when Germany was taken by the United States, he became an interpreter for the American troops. He came to Houston from Germany in 1946 under the sponsorship of George Hill, an independent oilman from Houston who he met in Germany.
While in Houston, Kolenda worked for George Hill's company, Houston Oil and Gas, and eventually attended Rice University. Kolenda graduated from Rice with a B.A. in Philosophy and German in 1950, and from Cornell with a Ph.D. in Philosophy in 1953. While at Cornell, he held the Susan Linn Sage Fellowship (1950-1953) and was the recipient of the Graduate Prize in Philosophy in 1953.
In September of 1953 he returned to Rice University and became a professor of philosophy, where he would remain for 38 years. He was honored with the position of Chair of the Philosophy department after 22 years as a professor, and he was also named Carolyn and Fred McManis Professor of Philosophy.
He served as Will Rice Resident Associate from 1951-1962, was a member of the Texas Committee for the Humanities from 1975-1979, and he was also on the editorial advisory board for Philosophical Topics. For the academic year 1959-1960, he was awarded a Fulbright grant and lectured on American philosophy at the University of Heidlberg. He taught as visiting professor at West Point, Colorado College, and the University of Texas. He also received the Outstanding Civilian Service Medal from the Department of the Army in 1984, was named to Who's Who in America, and served as director of the Mellon Workshop in Philosophy and Literature at Rice in 1987. Dr. Kolenda was a very well-known and well-respected professor, and he authored or edited over a dozen books on Philosophy including: Philosophy's Journey, Ethics for the Young, Religion Without God, and Cosmic Religion. Dr. Kolenda died in December 5, 1991 at the age of 68.
O. Jack Mitchell (1931-1992) was a nationally recognized architectural expert and served as Dean of the School of Architecture at Rice University for eleven years. Before he was named Dean, he was also a professor of Architecture at Rice and Director of the School of Architecture as well. Mitchell received his Bachelor of Architecture degree from Washington University and his Master of City Planning and Master of Architecture from the University of Pennsylvania. Besides being a professor at Rice, he was also an Assistant Professor of Architecture at Texas A and M University from 1957-1959. He lectured at Auburn University, the University of Arkansas, Texas A and M, Louisiana State University, and the University of Houston. Mitchell had many articles published and was associated with several architectural firms in Houston. Mitchell was a member of many professional associations and served as a board member of the Rice Design Alliance and a chairman of the South Main Center Association.
Albert Van Helden was born on March 7, 1940 in the The Hague, Netherlands, came to the United States in 1955, and later became a naturalized citizen. He received a B.S. in Engineering degree from Stevens Institute of Technology in 1962, Master of Science from Stevens in 1964, Master of Arts in History from University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, in 1967, and a doctorate from the University of London, Imperial College in the History of Science in 1970. Dr. Van Helden came to Rice University as an Assistant Professor of History in 1970, was promoted to full professor in 1983, and served as Chairman of the Department of History in 1987. In addition to his teaching duties at Rice in the field of history of science, Dr. Van Helden has published extensively on the history of astronomy, and on the invention and development of the telescope. He is closely associated with the Galileo Project at Rice University that examines the history, art, and culture of Galileo and of science in 17th century Italy.
James Caddall (Bud) Morehead, Jr. was born in Bradenton, Florida on October 29, 1913. He graduated from Princeton University in 1935 with a degree in Mathematics and then received an Architecture degree from the Carnegie Institute of Technology in 1939. He served in the U.S. Army during World War II and rose to the rank of Lieutenant Colonel. He was also elected a Fellow in the American Institute of Architects in 1982.
In 1940 he accepted an offer from William Ward Watkin to teach Architecture at Rice University and moved to Houston, where he remained until his retirement in 1979. He earned the title of Professor Emeritus and served as registrar of the University from 1965 until 1979. He also published 2 books, Handbook of Perspective Drawing (co-authored by his father) and A Walking Tour of Rice University. He served from 1954 to 1996 as Director of Building Permits and Building Inspector for Piney Point Village.
He was most active as an architect in the 1950s, when he designed houses for 2 Rice professors and for his own family – a house for which he won an Award of Merit from the Houston Chapter AIA. He was also a member of the Houston Philosophical Society and of the board of directors of the San Jacinto Girl Scouts. Morehead died on July 4, 1999 at the age of 85.
If I am to be remembered, I hope it will not be primarily for my specialized scientific work, but as a generalist; one to whom, enlarging Terence's words, nothing human and nothing in external nature was alien. Julian S. Huxley, Memories
Julian Sorell Huxley, the grandson of Thomas Henry Huxley and great-nephew of Matthew Arnold, was born June 22, 1887. The union of the Huxley and Arnold families brought about a happy combination of what Julian's younger brother Aldous would call "blue genes", but the combined family traditions also imposed an obligation of intellectual excellence and social responsibility. This obligation was keenly felt by Julian Huxley from an early age. It was enhanced by his affinity for the interests which had earned his grandfather his place in the history of science, and thus, it soon became apparent that young Julian would be Thomas Huxley's intellectual heir as well as his grandson. This inheritance would prove both a joy and a burden, for while Julian Huxley achieved great renown as a scientist and popularizer of science, he was plagued, like his grandfather, by serious and debilitating attacks of depression. In spite of this he was able, throughout a long career, to contribute significantly to the fields of ethology, ecology and cancer research, and to act effectively as a powerful proponent of neo-Darwinism.
He was educated at Eton and Oxford, where he followed his own inclinations and his grandfather's example by studying Natural Science. His scientific interests were combined with literary talents which were officially recognized in 1908, when he was awarded the Newdigate Prize for English Verse at Oxford, an honor which he remembered with pride even after a lifetime of honors and accomplishments. (It is note-worthy and characteristic that he spent his prize money on a microscope.)
After completing his schooling, he began his career at the institution which had taught him: in 1910, he became a lecturer in Zoology at Oxford. Two years later, however, he departed from the course traditional to a young man of his academic interests and social background. He left England and Oxford to accept a position as Research Associate at the newly established Rice Institute in Houston, Texas, and by 1913 he had become Assistant Professor of Biology there. He remained in Houston until 1916 when he returned to Europe to take part in World War I.
After serving as an army intelligence officer in Italy, he came home to marry and to take up a position as Senior Demonstrator in Zoology at Oxford. From 1919 to 1925 he remained at Oxford, carrying out his famous axolotl experiments and participating in the university's expedition to Spitsbergen. In 1925 he became Professor of Zoology at King's College, University of London. But he did not remain long in that position. The following year he made a decision which, like his decision to teach at the Rice Institute, would move him away from the path followed by most of his fellow scientists. He accepted the invitation of H.G. Wells to collaborate on what would become The Science of Life, and in 1927 resigned his position at King's College. This meant a new direction for his career, for although he was Fullerian Professor of Physiology in the Royal Institution from 1927 to 1929, after that he held no academic position. For ten years he was a private person working to advance his ideas about the biological sciences not as a researcher nor as a teacher, but as a writer on scientific developments and their relationship to contemporary social issues.
In 1935 he accepted the position of Secretary of the Zoological Society of London. In this capacity he had the means to encourage solid research on animal behavior while introducing innovative methods for implementing his vision of the zoo as an educational institution. Unfortunately his leadership aroused the displeasure of some members of the Society, and in 1942 he resigned under pressure. He continued, however, his work as a writer and lecturer and was known throughout war-time Britain for his participation as a panel member of the BBC Brains Trust program.
The end of the war brought an opportunity for him to put many of his cherished ideals and projects into practice. True to family tradition, he had always viewed science, art and literature as part of a great whole. Thus when he became a member of the commission formed to plan what would become Unesco, he ensured that science would be an integral part of the educational and cultural institution. When in 1946 he became Unesco's first Director-General, he set out a program cosmopolitan in vision, one concerned with mankind in relationship with nature and with its past, one in which art and science were equally valued. He even went so far as to advocate his own solution to the troubling questions of modern society, his "religion" of scientific humanism, as an official basis for Unesco's philosophy. This he himself came later to find unwise. During his tenure as Director-General he also began to articulate fully the concerns which would occupy the later years of his life: the relation of overpopulation to poverty and ignorance, the necessity for the conservation of wilderness and wildlife, and the importance of the renunciation of parochial views on religion and politics. Finally, he came to stress even more strongly than before his optimistic belief that mankind can and should take control of its own environmental and biological destiny.
In 1948 his term of office with Unesco came to an end and Huxley was once again a private citizen. The remainder of his life was spent traveling, lecturing and writing in support of the causes to which he was devoted: evolutionary theory and its significance for potential human development, ecology and the preservation of wildlife and population control. He was honored often for his contributions to science and to society, receiving prizes and awards for his efforts in helping the general public to better understand contemporary scientific thought. In 1958 he received a knighthood. In 1965, in a culmination of work he began in his youth with his field studies of the behavior of the great crested grebe, he organized a Royal Society Symposium on the Ritualization of Behavior in Animals and Man, and in 1970 he received the International Union for the Conservation of Nature Gold Medal for outstanding contributions to scientific research related to conservation.
On February 14, 1975, at the age of 87, Sir Julian Huxley died. His life had been long, beginning in the Victorian era and ending in a world which his grandfather could scarcely have imagined. He served many of the causes with which the 20th century will no doubt become identified, and his influence on the development of contemporary biological science was considerable. Through his field studies of animal behavior and his synthetic approach to Darwinian evolutionary theory and Mendelian genetics, he helped determine the direction of modern biology. As an educator his influence was incalculable, for he taught not only such men as E.B. Ford and A.C. Hardy, but through his writings, perhaps millions of men and women as well. He was, moreover, known for his encouragement of aspiring scientists and scholars. In his catholic interests, in his belief in the interrelationship of science and arts, he extended his influence beyond the laboratory of the classroom and reached artists, writers, musicians, politicians and finally the general public. Such interests and such influence indicate that his desire to be known as one to whom nothing human and nothing in external nature was alien was fulfilled.
The city of Houston has been a home to theater almost since its founding, with the first professional production on June 11, 1838. Since then, the Houston Theater District has grown until it seats the second largest number of people in the country, behind only New York. In 1951, "Houston was the site…of The Playhouse, the first permanent building built in America specifically to be a theatre-in-the-round" (Dauphin, 83). Another historic venue is the Alley Theatre whose growth mirrors that of Houston theater, evolving from one simple room to hosting two main stages holding 824 and 310 seats. Productions at the Alley tended to be popular, modern plays early on, and it was only later that they leaned towards the classics. Other venues today include the "national AIA prize-winning Jesse H. Jones Hall for the Performing Arts" (Holmes 2), the Miller Outdoor Theatre, and the Hobby Center for the Performing Arts. The Hobby Center is home to Theatre Under The Stars, the "largest non-profit producer of musical theater in America" (About).
Houstonian Ed Oppenheimer collected these programs from the 1900s to the 1990s from various theaters in Houston as well as New York, London, Dallas, and Fort Worth.
Dr. Lee Patrick Brown was born in the small town of Wewoka, Oklahoma on October 4, 1937. When Dr. Brown was five years old, he and his family, including six brothers, moved to California. As a high school athlete, Dr. Brown earned a scholarship to play football for Fresno State University, where he graduated with a Bachelor's degree in Criminology. He then went on to earn a Masters in Sociology from San Jose State University in 1964, a Masters in Criminology from the University of California at Berkeley in 1968, and a Doctorate in Criminology from the University of California at Berkeley in 1970.
Dr. Brown began his prominent career in law enforcement in 1960 as a patrolman in San Jose, California. After eight years in that capacity, he moved to Portland, Oregon and established the Department of Administration of Justice at Portland State University. In 1972, he joined Howard University in Washington, D.C., becoming Associate Director of the Institute for Urban Affairs and Research. He held the academic rank of Professor of Public Administration and Director of Criminal Justice Programs. He then returned to Portland in 1975 to serve as sheriff of Multnomah County. In 1976, he was appointed Director of Justice Services, a department comprised of all the county's criminal justice agencies. Dr. Brown has also served as New York City Police Commissioner from 1990-92, as Police Chief of Houston, Texas from 1982-90, and also as Public Safety Commissioner of Atlanta, Georgia from 1978-82.
In June 1993, Dr. Brown was unanimously confirmed as the Director of the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) during the Clinton Presidency. He served in that Cabinet-level position as the "Drug Czar" from 1993 until January 1996. Following his service in the ONDCP, Dr. Brown joined the Faculty at Rice University as a Radoslav A. Tsanoff Professor of Public Affairs in the Department of Sociology as well as a Scholar in the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy. Prior to his service in the ONDCP, Dr. Brown also served as a Distinguished Professor at Texas Southern University and Director of the University's Black Male Initiative Program.
In 1997, Dr. Brown became the first African American to ever be elected as Mayor of the City of Houston. He served consecutive terms from 1998-2004, and presided over a very prosperous six-year period in Houston's history. Under his leadership, the City of Houston invested in extensive infrastructure, advanced its affirmative action program, installed programs in City libraries to provide access to the Internet; built the state-of-the-art Houston Emergency Communications Center; implemented e-government, and opened new parks. In 2005, Dr. Brown became Chairman and CEO of Brown Group International, a consulting corporation.
The recipient of numerous awards over the years, Dr. Brown was named Father of the Year by the National Father's Day Committee in 1991, and in 1992 he was awarded the Cartier Pasha Award by Cartier, International. He was also inducted into the national Forum for Black Public Administrators Hall of Fame in 1994 and the Gallup Hall of Fame by Gallup, Inc. in 1993. Dr. Brown was also named to Who's Who in America in 2004. The author of many papers and articles on police management, community policing, crime, the criminal justice system and narcotics, Dr. Brown is also co-author of the book Police and Society: An Environment for Collaboration and Confrontation. He is also a past President of the International Association of Chiefs of Police and is involved in a number of professional and community organizations.
Julian Sorell Huxley (b. June 22, 1887, d. February 14, 1975) was a lecturer in Zoology at Oxford (1910-1912), Research Associate and later Assistant Professor of Biology at Rice Institute (1913-1916), and fought in World War I before returning to Oxford in 1919, where he conducted the famous axolotl experiments and participated in the university's expedition to Spitsbergen. He became Professor of Zoology at King's College, University of London in 1925, but resigned his position in 1927 to collaborate on what would become The Science of Life with H.G. Wells. He was Fullerian Professor of Physiology in the Royal Institution (1927-1929) while working with Wells, however after 1929 he held no academic position. For ten years he was a private person working to advance his ideas about the biological sciences not as a researcher nor as a teacher, but as a writer on scientific developments and their relationship to contemporary social issues.
From 1935-1942 he served as Secretary of the Zoological Society of London, allowing him to encourage solid research on animal behavior while introducing innovative methods for implementing his vision of the zoo as an educational institution. He continued his work as a writer and lecturer and was known throughout war-time Britain for his participation as a panel member of the BBC Brains Trust program. After World War II he helped form Unesco, serving as the organization's first Director-General (1946-1948). Here he set out a program cosmopolitan in vision, one concerned with mankind in relationship with nature and with its past, one in which art and science were equally valued. He also began to articulate fully the concerns which would occupy the later years of his life: the relation of overpopulation to poverty and ignorance, the necessity for the conservation of wilderness and wildlife, and the importance of the renunciation of parochial views on religion and politics. The remainder of his life was spent traveling, lecturing and writing in support of the causes to which he was devoted. Throughout his long career, he contributed significantly to the fields of ethology, ecology and cancer research, and acted as a powerful proponent of neo-Darwinism.
The Houston Arts and Media group has the mission statement of collecting and presenting educational and historical information in the form of films, videos and books. In June 2006, Houston Arts and Media began interviewing members of various Houston communities on their memories of the old neighborhoods. The interviewees came from all walks of life and a wide variety of neighborhoods all around Houston and its associated counties. Houston Arts and Media titled this project Neighbor to Neighbor.
No further information is currently available for the author, W.L. Atwood.
Otto Eisenlohr (d. 1988) of Dallas, Texas, attended Rice Institute from 1915 to 1921, and graduated in 1921. Eisenlohr attended medical school and practiced medicine in Dallas. He married Gainor Roberts of Dallas in 1920, and after her death in 1938, married Nell Vaughn in 1942.
Sheerness is a town in north Kent, England located at the mouth of the River Midway on the northwest corner of the Isle of Sheppey. The town of Sheerness started as a fort that was built during the reign of King Henry VIII in the early 16th century to protect the River Medway from invasions by sea. In 1665, plans were laid out to rebuild and strengthen the fort and make Sheerness an extension of the naval dockyard in Chatham. However, the fort was destroyed in 1667, during the Dutch raid on the Medway. Soon after, Samuel Pepys, Secretary of the Admiralty, ordered construction to begin again for a naval dockyard. It was hard to retain construction workers as a result of indecent living conditions and lack of fresh water; therefore, the first dry-dock was not completed until 1708. A fire completely destroyed the dockyard in the early 1820's but was rebuilt and redeveloped with a high brick wall and moat surrounding the yard as a defense measure. The dockyard officially reopened in 1823 by the Duke of Clarence, the future King William IV. Sheerness served as one of the bases of the Nore Command of the Royal Navy until 1960 when the dockyard closed and the Royal Navy relinquished control to the Medway Port Authority.
John Duff Markland was born September 14, 1780, at Leeds and entered the royal Navy in1795. In 1803-1805, the time of the diary, he was First Lieutenant on the 74 gun HMS Albion in the East Indies. Following a series of commands during the Napoleonic Wars, he retired in 1833 and was subsequently promoted to Rear Admiral.
John Minter served as pastor of the University Presbyterian Church in Houston and researched the youth movement in the Berkeley, California area in the 1960s and 1970s.
Harrie Thomas Lindeberg (1879-1959) was a New York based society architect whose simple, clean-lined country home designs were significant in setting the style for early 20th century domestic American architecture. During his career he designed more than a hundred country houses, numerous suburban dwellings, and a smattering of public buildings.
Born April 10, 1879 in Bergen Point, New Jersey of Swedish immigrant parents, little is known of Lindeberg's early years. He acquired his architectural training through an apprenticeship, from 1901 to 1906, at McKim, Mead and White, the leading architectural firm of the American Renaissance in New York. Lindeberg's work bears the lasting stamp of that tradition. In 1906 Lindeberg and his colleague, Lewis Colt Albro left the firm and opened their own New York architectural office. Aided by Albro's social connections and later, those of Lindeberg's second wife, they became architects to a new wealthy elite who were looking for symbols of leisure and success. Lindeberg's style was known for its simplicity and warmth. Steeply pitched roofs, vernacular materials, and bare hints of older European architectural vocabulary differentiated Lindeberg's homes from those of more traditional styles.
With the onset of World War I, Lindeberg joined the air corps. After the war, he resumed his practice in New York but found that more socially advantaged competitors including Charles Platt and John Russell Pope, had sewn up the premium commissions for social register homes along the eastern seaboard. It was then that Lindeberg discovered clients in the Midwest, South, and Gulf Coast regions. His imprimatur as a New York society architect with a strong record in country house work appealed to the new barons of the east Texas oil boom.
In Houston, before World War I, Stephen Cullinan (1860-1937), the founder of Texaco, envisioned a park-like enclave near Rice University and Hermann Park. He hired St. Louis landscape architect George E. Kessler to lay out the new Shadyside area. In 1919 he offered lots for sale to a select group of friends and associates. One of the friends, stockbroker Hugo V. Neuhaus (father of noted domestic architect Hugo V. Neuhaus Jr.), chose Harrie Lindeberg as his architect. The drawings for Neuhaus' house constitute this collection.
Neuhaus also persuaded three of his friends, oilman William Stamps Farish, cotton exporter Kenneth E. Womack, and industrialist D.D. Peden to hire Harrie Lindeberg to design their homes.
Excerpted from Domestic architecture of H.T. Lindeberg by H. T. Lindeberg and originally published in 1940.
George Martin established a restaurant across from the Rice playing fields in 1918 which originated as a small eatery. It soon became a hangout for Rice University athletes and became known as the Ye Old College Inn by 1921. In 1946, Martin turned the restaurant over to Ernie Coker who added the Varsity Room to it in the early fifties. The Varsity Room served as a banquet hall for meetings, sports banquets, and dances. Photographs of Owl athletes hung on the walls of the Ye Old College Inn until the restaurant closed its doors. The photographs and other memorabilia were then handed over to the Rice Athletic Department.
The Spears Dairy was incorporated in 1928. It was founded by the Spears family, including W. L. Spears, and served many Texas towns with dairy farms, ice cream stores, processing and distribution outlets.
William Lukes is a residential and commercial architect and free-lance photographer in Carbondale, CO. He received his BA in Architecture and Fine Arts (Photography) in 1971 and a Master of Architecture in 1974 from the Rice University School of Architecture. Lukes has worked with artists Richard Hunt and Isamu Noguchi, and his photographs have been published in books and magazines. Lukes is a member of the American Institute of Architects and is licensed by the states of Colorado and California.
Paul Hester is an architectural photographer and lecturer in the Department of Visual and Dramatic Arts at Rice University in Houston, TX. He received his BA in Art from Rice University in 1971 and an MFA from the Rhode Island School of Design in 1976. Hester has received grants from the National Endowment for the Arts, and exhibited his work at the Menil Collection, Rice University, the University of Houston College of Architecture, and the Houston Public Library. He has also published extensively in books and magazines.
Arthur E. Jones, a 1947 Rice University graduate, joined the Houston firm of Hermon F. Lloyd and William B. Morgan that year, and became partner in 1961. In 1974 the firm became Lloyd Jones and Associates, and by 1976 adding Benjamin E. Brewer, Jr. to become Lloyd, Jones and Brewer. By 1984 Brewer left the firm and Bob G. Fillpot joined. Hermon F. Lloyd died in 1989 and the last incarnation of the form was Jones and Fillpot. Jones' projects with the firms, which were primarily but not only in Houston, include the Astrodome, the Allen Centers, the Melrose building, and various buildings in Greenway Plaza, the University of Houston, and Rice University.
John Allan Stewart Adams is considered to be one of the founding fathers of the Department of Geology at Rice University. Adams attended the University of Chicago where he obtained four degrees (B.S., M.S., Ph. B., and Ph.D.) from the Department of Geology and he also received a Fulbright grant to study in Norway for two years. While at the University of Chicago, he was a two time All-American cross-country runner. Adams joined the Rice faculty as an associate professor of Geology and then became Chairman of the Department, served as a professor for thirty-four years, and was very popular with faculty and students. Adams produced numerous publications and garnered many awards and honors. He also served as: Principal Investigator on Lunar Samples, President of the Houston Philosophical Society, American Executive Editor of Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta, Councilman of the Geochemical Society, and consultant to Shell Development Company.
John Singleton Mosby (1833-1916), the Confederate Partisan Ranger, was commissioned in the Virginia state forces in 1861. When that state succeeded he became a private in the 1st Virginia cavalry and fought at 1st Bull Run. In 1863 he was given permission to organize his Partisan Rangers and engage in guerilla warfare. He was promoted to Colonel on December 7, 1864. Mosby disbanded his Rangers on April 20, 1865, and returned to law practice. He later became involved in Reconstruction politics.
Mary Webb (1881-1927) was an English Romanic novelist who authored novels including The Golden Arrow (1916) and Precious Bane (1924). Most of her works were set in the Shropshire countryside where she grew up, and many of her characters were based on people that she knew there. However, her novels did not achieve much literary success with the general public until after her death.
Dr. John W. Freeman, professor emeritus and research professor of physics and astronomy, is a former NASA scientist and a long time professor at Rice University in the Space Sciences Department. During the Apollo missions of the 1960's and 1970's Dr. Freeman was instrumental in the development of the Suprathermal Ion Detector Experiment, and for this effort was awarded the NASA Medal for Exceptional Scientific Achievement in 1973. Dr. Freeman was also involved in the Rice University solar power satellite research program; one of his two patents is a solar energy conversion device for space. He is also the author of a book published in 2001 titled Storms in Space and numerous papers and articles. In 2005 Dr. Freeman became the first director of the Master of Liberal Studies program at the School of Continuing Studies at Rice.
Harry Van Deusen Van Demark was born in Roxbury, Delaware County, New York on Jan. 26, 1881. He came to settle in Webster, Harris County, Texas in 1894, with his father via Nebraska and later moved to Houston in 1901.
He became the owner and editor of the Webster Star, later the Webster Weekly News, until the storm of 1900. After moving to Houston in 1901, he began a career as a theatre manager, producer and playwright. He wrote plays on subjects about Texas such as The Texan and The Texas Ranger. He produced juvenile periodicals under various noms de plume in addition to editing magazines.
Prior to World War I he began writing mystery stories, notably The Vanishing Diplomat. He continued to write in this genre for another thirty years combining mystery and crime with a western back drop but writing under numerous aliases. Along with being a free-lance writer, Van Demark was always employed. He managed theatres, worked for the Houston Chronicle and Houston Post, and edited for Texas Parade, and Texas Week.
He married Josephine Bonifay on Feb. 1, 1902 by whom he had eight children. She died on Feb. 4 1943 and Van Demark followed on Dec. 6, 1948. Van Demark was considered the most prolific writer in the Houston area of his time.
Patrick James Nicholson is the author of Mr. Jim: The Biography of James Smither Abercrombie.
Dr. Patrick James Nicholson (1921-1999) is best known as the author of In Time: An Anecdotal History of the First Fifty Years of the University of Houston. He received a BA from Rice University in 1942, an MBA from Harvard in 1946, and a Ph.D., from the University of Houston in 1959. Nicholson came to the University of Houston as a lecturer in Management in 1951. He continued until 1956, when he became Executive Director of Development and Assistant to the President. He was named Vice President of University Development in 1957, a position he maintained until his retirement in August of 1981. Honorary positions Nicholson held included Past President of the American College Public Relations Association; Past President of the Houston Council on World Affairs; Past President of the Institute of Ophthalmology, Texas Medical Center; and N.Y. Academy of Sciences. He was a member of Phi Kappa Phi; Phi Eta Sigma; Sigma Xi; and Omicron Delta Kappa. (excerpted from finding aid for Dr. Patrick J. Nicholson Papers at University of Houston, accessed on-line at https://findingaids.lib.uh.edu/repositories/2/resources/171)
Jean-Claude de Bremaecker earned his Master's of Science degree from Louisiana State University in 1950, and his Ph.D. from UC, Berkeley in 1952. He is currently a Professor Emeritus of Geology at Rice University.
Jefferson Davis (J.D.) Sandefer, Jr (1899-1975) was a well-known and respected businessman, friend, and civic leader. He made his home in Breckenridge, Texas, in 1920 and soon after bought Walker-Caldwell Oil Company, which was very successful. Sandefer married Carrie Lynn Bates and they raised their three children in Breckenridge, where he was a model citizen. Sandefer was twice president of the chamber of commerce, served twice on the school board, was President of the Lions Club, and was also President of the West Central Texas Oil and Gas Association. He was a director of two banks, helped to organize the "Roughneck Bible Class," and was on the Board of Trustees at Hardin-Simmons University, where his father served as President.
Originally controlled the office of Lord High Admiral, King Charles I put the office in commission in 1623 and the Board of the Admiralty took charge of the Royal Navy by the 18th century. The Admiralty of Great Britain was the authority in the United Kingdom for the command of the Royal Navy until 1964, when the Ministry of Defense took over as the head of all military affairs.
Edward Fontaine (1814-1884) was a minister, an amateur naturalist, and the great-grandson of Patrick Henry. He was active in the Methodist Episcopal Church and was admitted to the ministry in 1838. He relinquished his ministry in 1840 and became private secretary to Mirabeau Bonaparte Lamar from May to October 1841. He again served as minister and taught school sporadically for the next few years. In 1859, he moved to Mississippi and served in the Mississippi Army during the Civil War. He was a member of both the Maryland and New Orleans Academies of Science. He delivered speeches and wrote papers about his scientific interests. His lectures included "How the World was Peopled," "Winds of the Gulf States," and "A Lectures on the Peculiarities of the Physical Geography of the Mississippi River and its Delta." He remained in Mississippi until his death in 1884.
Lamar served as President of the Republic of Texas from December 1838 until December 1841. Originally opposed to U.S. annexation, he planned a comprehensive system of education, and began successful negotiations for recognition by France, England, and Holland. Furthermore, he founded the city of Austin in 1840. He was, however, unable to solve the financial problems of Texas and he failed to gain Mexico's recognition of the republic's independence.
Dillon Anderson (1906-1974) attended Texas Christian University and went on to receive his B.S. from the University of Oklahoma in 1927. He then attended Yale Law School, receiving his L.L.B. in 1929. He became a partner of the law firm Baker Botts of Houston, Texas before serving in World War II. In 1953, he was an official on the National Security Council, before becoming the National Security Advisor in 1955. He also wrote and published numerous short fiction stories, mostly in the 1960s.
Nothing is known about the author.
Edmund McAshan Dupree was the first student to register at Rice Institute and was the recipient of the first degree in 1916. After graduation with a degree in Electrical Engineering he joined General Electric Company in New York and in 1922 established his own firm, Star Electric and Engineering Company, on April 1, 1922 in Houston, Texas.
By the time George Hawkins (1947-1991), founded the Black Ensemble Company in 1976, he already had eleven years of professional theater experience. He was an accomplished stage director as well as a stage and film actor. Hawkins graduated from Case Western Reserve University in Ohio and Prairie View A and M College in Prairie View, Texas. He furthered his professional training at Beale Street Repertory Theater in Memphis, Tennessee and New Freedom Theater in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, which included a year of study in London, England. He was the driving force behind The Ensemble Theatre until his death July 25, 1990 in Houston. Biography excerpted from A History of the Ensemble Theatre and its productions 1976-1999, a Master's thesis by Sharon Gray, University of Houston. A copy of this thesis is located in Box 3, folder 17.
In November of 1976, Houstonian George Hawkins founded The Black Ensemble Company, Houston's first African American professional theater, to provide a venue for Houston's talented Black actors, writers and artists to perform. When his company moved into its first home at 1010 Tuam Street in Houston, Hawkins dropped the word Black from the name, becoming simply The Ensemble. The first production performed at the new site was Surprise, Surprise...A Love Story, written and directed by Hawkins. In 1985, George Hawkins and his theater supporters rented a building at 3535 Main Street, Houston, and converted it into a theater. After Hawkin's death in 1991, Eileen Morris became the artistic director and devoted her life to keeping Hawkin's dream alive. In 1993, the group, now known as The Ensemble Theatre, began a fundraising campaign to purchase the building they had occupied for eight years at 3535 Main Street and renovate it. This venue became the largest African American theater in the United States and was the site of many "firsts" in the history of African American professional theater. In 2004, the Ensemble Theatre reached two milestones; becoming a designated stop on the new Houston Metrorail system, and the fulfillment of the mortgage on the building, celebrated by a Mortgage Burning Ceremony on January 1, 2004.
David Westheimer (April 11, 1917-November 8, 2005) was born in Houston, Texas and graduated from Rice University in 1937. He left his career as a journalist for the Houston Post to join the U.S. Army Air Forces after the United States entered World War II. He became a prisoner of war (P.O.W.) after his B-24 bomber was shot down near Italy, He used this experience to shape one of his best known literary works Von Ryan's Express, which was published in 1964 and went on to become a bestseller and a film starring Frank Sinatra. Besides writing novels such as My Sweet Charlie(1965), Westheimer also wrote television screenplays (often based on his work) and his autobiography: Sitting It Out: A World War II POW Memoir(1992). He returned to the Houston Post as a columnist in the 1980s and died of heart failure in Los Angeles in 2005.
Leonard Mendes Marsak, PhD Cornell, is a scholar of European history.
Edward Robert De Zurko is the author of Origins of Functionalist Theory.
George Wesley Whiting (1887-1963) was a professor of English at Rice University and a Milton scholar. He received his B.A. from the University of West Virginia in 1908, his Master's degree from Harvard University, and his Ph.D. from the University of Chicago in 1926. Before coming to Rice Institute in the fall of 1926, he served as assistant in English at Chicago, and assistant professor of English at Michigan State College. He published "Milton's Milieu" in 1939, and "Milton and This Pendant World" in 1958. He was considered to be a premier scholar on Milton.
Sources: "Houston Chronicle," Jan 28, 1939 and "The South-Central Bulletin," October, 1963.
Nothing is known about the author, Mathurin Guerin.
No information is currently available on the author.
No information is currently available on the author.
Edward Mandell House was born in Houston on July 26, 1858 to Mary Elizabeth (Shearn) and Thomas William House, who was a prominent and wealthy figure in Texas. House attended Cornell University but never graduated. Instead, he returned to Texas during his third year when his father died. House married Loulie Hunter in 1881. In 1892, he successfully managed Texas Governor James Hogg's reelection campaign and was rewarded with the title of Colonel. For the next ten years he served as unofficial advisor to Texas governors and managed several successful gubernatorial campaigns. House then decided to move to New York to pursue bigger political arenas. In November 1911, he met Woodrow Wilson and the two developed a close personal friendship. House remained Wilson's confidant and advisor throughout his presidency; furthermore, House undertook several important European missions for the President, including gaining British and French support for Wilson's Fourteen Points Plan for peace. House died on March 28, 1938 in New York City and was buried in Houston.
Journal of Geophysical Research publishes original scientific research on the physical, chemical, and biological processes that contribute to the understanding of the Earth, Sun, and solar system and all of their environments and components.
Annie Gregory belonged to a Methodist (Wesleyan) family in Wiltshire. Annie published a book in 1881 called "Susanne Gibson: A Study for Christian Workers… with an appendix concerning a London School for Wesleyan Ministers' Daughters". Lady Margaret Spicer was a younger daughter of the 12th Earl of Westmoreland. Though her father was a colonel in the British Army, and served in the Crimean War, he was chiefly notable for losing much of his fortune on horse racing. But Lady Margaret's grandfather, the 11th Earl, was a celebrated M.P. soldier, diplomat, musician, and historian. He founded the Royal Academy of Music, wrote seven operas and many other smaller musical pieces, and wrote two or three books on military and political matters. The husband of Lady Margaret was Captain John Edward Philip Spicer (1850-1928), who was from a celebrated old Wiltshire family. John Edward Philip Spicer was High Sheriff of Wiltshire in 1889, and a Captain in the Queen's Life Guards.
Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington, was a very famous military and political figure in the 19th century. He gained notoriety for defeating Napoleon Bonaparte at Waterloo as well as through his post as Commander-in-Chief of the British Army. The Duke of Wellington had an extensive military career in which he fought in many battles; furthermore, he served as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom for two terms. The Duke became involved with Miss Anna Maria Jenkins, a young female evangelist, for several years - the progression of their relationship is reflected in the Duke's letters to Miss Jenkins. The two corresponded from 1833 until the Duke's death in 1852.
Samuel Richardson (19 August 1689 – 4 July 1761) was an 18th-century English writer and printer. He is best known for his three epistolary novels: Pamela: Or, Virtue Rewarded (1740), Clarissa: Or the History of a Young Lady (1748) and The History of Sir Charles Grandison (1753). Outside of his writing career, Richardson was an established printer and publisher for most of his life and printed almost 500 different works and various journals and magazines.
Arthur Few was a Professor of Physics and Environmental Science at Rice University from 1970-2008. He received his PhD from Rice University in 1969. He and his wife, Joan, served as Baker College's Masters from 1994-1999, then as the Masters of Martel College from Martel's founding in 2000 until Dr. Few's retirement in 2008. Dr. Few is one of the leading authorities in weather and astronomical physics. His many research projects included research regarding the acoustical properties of thunder, the global electrical current, and electrical currents at the South Pole.
The Southwest Conference (SWC) was a college athletic conference in the United States that became defunct in May of 1996. It consisted of schools in the states of Arkansas, Oklahoma and Texas. Jim Castaneda, Rice faculty member and golf coach, served as the Faculty Representative for the SWC. In 1997 the official records of the conference from 1914 to 1996 were moved from Dallas to the campus of Texas Tech University, becoming part of the Southwest Collection/Special Collections Library. The archive also contains an extensive assortment of images and memorabilia from each member university. Rice University moved to the Western Athletic Conference when SWC closed, and is now a member of Conference USA. Conference USA, officially abbreviated C-USA, is a college athletic conference whose member institutions are located within the Southern United States. The conference participates in the NCAA's Division I in all sports. C-USA was founded in 1995 by the merger of the Metro Conference and Great Midwest Conference, two Division I conferences that did not sponsor football. The conference immediately started competition in all sports, including football. [Partially excerpted from wikipedia, July 10, 2007. ]
No information is currently available on the author.
Edward Doughtie, now a Professor Emeritus of English, taught at Rice University for 38 years. He taught courses on William Shakespeare, ballads and folk songs and 16th century literature and music, among other topics. His areas of interest have focused on Renaissance literature and song, folklore and music, and literature. He is a former master of Will Rice College and a nonresident associate at Lovett College. Doughtie is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and was a Fulbright fellow. (A.B., Duke University; M.A., Ph.D., Harvard University)
Biographical information excerpted from text courtesy of Rice News and Media Relations, Rice University.
Frank Briggs, a 1936 graduate of Rice University, was involved in Project Mohole, an attempt to drill through the earth's outer crust to the Mohorovicic Discontinuity or Moho. He wrote a manuscript about the endeavor, PROJECT MOHOLE: The History and Technology of a Famous Government Project and published another book, Tales and Bare-faced Lies about Tigers in the Oil Patch.
Allan H. Stevenson, a graduate of Rice University, was a bibliographer and paper specialist, recognized for his expertise in identifying watermarks and papermaking techniques and using this information to date books.
Ludwig I. Allan, a major force in the field of gravestone studies, is the author of Gravestone Studies: New England Stonecarving and its Symbols, 1650-1815, first published in 1966.
Hugh R. McKean was born in Northwestern Iowa in 1899; his family settled in Texas shortly thereafter, living in North Texas, Long Creek, Port Lavaca, and finally Rosenberg and the Houston area. McKean was a student, letterman, and Hohenthal Award winner at the Rice Institute, from which he graduated in 1922.
A native of South Carolina, William Hayne Leavell served as a pastor in Jackson and Meridian, Mississippi and in Manchester, New Hampshire before moving to the First Presbyterian Church in Houston, Texas in 1893. He worked at the First Presbyterian Church until 1905. After serving as envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary to Guatemala (1913-1919), he returned to Houston. In addition to being president of the board of directors of the Austin Presbyterian Theological Seminary, Leavell was a trustee of Austin College. He also edited and published "George's Political History of Slavery in the United States."
Martin L. Friedland, a highly respected University of Toronto law professor, is the author of numerous periodical articles and books, including "The Death of Old Man Rice", a work of legal history that chronicles the murder of William Marsh Rice, the trial and subsequent appeals. "The Death of Old Man Rice" was published by New York University Press, c. 1994.
John B. Boles, the William P. Hobby professor of history at Rice University and editor of the Journal of Southern History, received his Bachelor of Arts degree from Rice University in 1965 and his Doctorate from the University of Virginia in 1969. He is the author of numerous books and articles regarding American southern history.
Other works by Boles include:
"Black Southerners, 1619-1869" (1983)
"Rice University and the 1990 Economic Summit of Industrialized Nations" (1991)
"A university so conceived: a brief history of Rice" (1992)
"The irony of southern religion" (1994)
"The South through time: a history of an American region" (1995)
"The Great Revival: beginnings of the Bible belt" (1996)
"University builder: Edgar Odell Lovett and the founding of the Rice Institute" (2007).
Sir William Watson was born in 1858 at Burley-in-Wharfedale, Yorkshire. His first published poem appeared in the "Liverpool Argus." His poetry was often inspired by art or politics, in which he was very interested in. After the death of his father, he fell into financial difficulties, and hoped to be named to the office of Poet Laureate. This, however, never occurred. In 1890, William became famous with the poem "Wordsworth's Grave." In 1909, he married Miss Adeline Maureen Pring, who urged him to publish his poems. He was knighted in 1917, and died in August 1935.
Addison Stayton Nunn graduated from the Rice Institute in 1921, won several national architecture competitions, and was credited with creating "Houston architecture," a type of home adapted to the Houston climate. He became an Assistant Professor of Architecture in 1928 and became a Fellow in Architecture in 1930. In 1934, he was promoted to Instructor of Architectural Construction and taught until 1945. Nunn also worked for William Ward Watkin at his architectural firm and helped Watkin design some of his best buildings.
Economist Ervin K. Zingler was born in Wisconsin in 1913. He graduated B.A., Summa Cum Laude, from Lawrence University in 1935, M.A. University of Illinois 1936, Ph. D. University of Illinois 1938. He taught in many schools, including University of Cape Town, South Africa, University of Wisconsin, Vanderbilt University, New York University, University of Illinois and University of Houston. He also served in the government as Chief Economist, 1944-1953.
Zingler was posthumously honored by a professorship being named for him at Rice University, known as the Ervin K. Zingler Professor of Economics and Professor of Management, Jones Graduate School of Management, Rice University. The Zingler Chair was established by Gilberta Zingler, former assistant librarian for resources at Rice's Fondren Library, to honor her late husband, who was a professor of economics at the University of Houston. In Spring 1988, the Rice Board of Governors approved the appointment of Malcolm Gillis as the first Ervin Kenneth Zingler Professor of Economics.
Jerry C. Debes (1920-1944) was born in Beaumont, Texas as one of five children of immigrant parents. His father Mike N. Debes (b.c. 1881) immigrated to America from Tripoli, Syria (now a part of Lebanon) in 1892. Mike married Vehiba, also Syrian, about 1907 and began his retail business in Beaumont, Texas. The Debes children attended Beaumont High School from which Jerry Debes graduated in 1938. He then attended the local Lamar College to study accounting.
On December 7, 1941, Debes was working as an accountant for the Stedman Wholesale Company. He enlisted in the US Army where he was sent to Camp Crowder, Mo. to be trained for the newly-established Signal Corps for the Second Division of the US Army Air Force (AAF). Preferring to become a pilot, Debes then began training at the Wilson & Bonafils Flying School in Chickasha, Oklahoma but failed to finish the program. He then studied at the bombardier school at the George Air Force base in Victorville, CA. and graduated on July 31, 1943. He did additional training as a bombardier at the Air Force bases in Pueblo, CO and Tuscan, AZ eventually becoming a bombardier instructor. In the spring of 1944, he became certified as an aviation navigator.
Lt. Jerry C. Debes was then transferred to the RAF base in Halesworth, England as part of the 846th Squadron of the 489th Bombardment Group of the Eighth Air Force (8AF). Jerry and his crew christened their B-24 Liberator plane as the "Agony Wagon". Although notorious for catching on fire because of the fuel tank placement, the B-24 Liberator eventually became the most produced American military aircraft in history. The crew of the "Agony Wagon" entered combat on May 30, 1944 at the very end of the Allied Forces' "softening up" process of Nazi-occupied France prior to the D-Day invasion.
The Allied invasion of Normandy began on June 2, 1944. Debes flew six combat missions that focused exclusively on strategic targets such as factories, oil refineries, and airfields. On August 16, 1944, Jerry Debes and crew were on their tenth mission with orders to destroy the Rothensee plant and power stations in Magdeburg, Germany. After dropping their loads, the 846th squadron had turned back towards England when the "Agony Wagon" bombed accidently by another Allied plane. The Debes family received word that Jerry was "missing in action" one week later. Over a year later, the US War Department finally declared Second Lieutenant Jerry C. Debes officially "dead". He was posthumously awarded the US Army's Purple Heart and the USAF Air Medal for his service, and a tombstone in his memory was placed in the Lorraine American Cemetery outside St. Avold (Moselle), France in 1947. His family spent the rest of the decade trying unsuccessfully to discover the circumstances of his death. After visiting his brother's grave in France, Dr. Robert Debes of Houston, Texas reopened the inquiry in 1988.
Nothing is known at this time about the collector, Earle C. Douglas, Jr.
Jefferson Davis (1808-1889) was an American politician who served as President of the Confederate States of America from 1861 to 1865 during the Civil War.
Judah P. Benjamin (1811-1884) was an American politician and lawyer who was a citizen of the Confederate States of America. He held three consecutive Cabinet positions in the government of the Confederate States of America, but previously was a member of the Louisiana House of Representatives and a U.S. Senator from Louisiana.
Steven R. Mallory (1813-1873) was an American politician and Secretary of the Navy for the Confederate States of America during the Civil War. Mallory was considered to be one of President Davis' best Cabinet officers.
Herbert Clark Hoover (1874-1964) was the 31st President of the United States from 1929-1933. Prior to his Presidency, the served as the United States Secretary of Commerce in the 19290s under Presidents Harding and Coolidge. In this capacity, he promoted government intervention under his program of "economic modernization." Hoover easily captured the Republican nomination despite to previous experience in campaigning for elected office. To date, Hoover is the last cabinet secretary to be directly elected President. Hoover served as President during the Great Depression of the 1930s, and lost his bid for reelection in 1932. Hoover was also a professional mining engineer and author. J. Hugh Jackson (1891-1992) received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Simpson College in 1912, an MBA with Distinction from Harvard University in 1920, and two honorary degrees from Simpson College, Doctor of Laws (1930) and Doctor of Business Administration (1955). He became licensed as a CPA in Wisconsin, Massachusetts, and California. His first college teaching jobs were at the University of Oregan the University of Minnesota. After completing his Master's degree in Business, he was named assistant professor of accounting at Harvard's Graduate School of Business in 1923 and was eventually made a full-time professor there. During his time at Harvard, and until 1930 at Stanford, he was associated with the accounting firm of Price Waterhouse and Co. In 1926, Jackson moved to Stanford and became a professor of accounting; in 1931, he became the second dean of Stanford's new Graduate School of Business. He held this post for twenty-five years until his retirement in 1956.
Julian Sorell Huxley (b. June 22, 1887, d. February 14, 1975) was a lecturer in Zoology at Oxford (1910-1912), Research Associate and later Assistant Professor of Biology at Rice Institute (1913-1916), and fought in World War I before returning to Oxford in 1919, where he conducted the famous axolotl experiments and participated in the university's expedition to Spitsbergen. He became Professor of Zoology at King's College, University of London in 1925, but resigned his position in 1927 to collaborate on what would become The Science of Life with H.G. Wells. He was Fullerian Professor of Physiology in the Royal Institution (1927-1929) while working with Wells, however after 1929 he held no academic position. For ten years he was a private person working to advance his ideas about the biological sciences not as a researcher nor as a teacher, but as a writer on scientific developments and their relationship to contemporary social issues. in 1919, Huxley married Juliette Baillot, a French Swiss girl whom he had met a Garsington Manor. From 1935-1942 he served as Secretary of the Zoological Society of London, allowing him to encourage solid research on animal behavior while introducing innovative methods for implementing his vision of the zoo as an educational institution. He continued his work as a writer and lecturer and was known throughout war-time Britain for his participation as a panel member of the BBC Brains Trust program. After World War II he helped form Unesco, serving as the organization's first Director-General (1946-1948). Here he set out a program cosmopolitan in vision, one concerned with mankind in relationship with nature and with its past, one in which art and science were equally valued. He also began to articulate fully the concerns which would occupy the later years of his life: the relation of overpopulation to poverty and ignorance, the necessity for the conservation of wilderness and wildlife, and the importance of the renunciation of parochial views on religion and politics. The remainder of his life was spent traveling, lecturing and writing in support of the causes to which he was devoted. Throughout his long career, he contributed significantly to the fields of ethology, ecology and cancer research, and acted as a powerful proponent of neo-Darwinism.
The Discussion Group, Houston, TX was founded in 1947 by charter members Mrs. Lamar Fleming (wife of a Rice Institute Board Member) and Mrs. William Houston (wife of the President of the Rice Insitute). Early members researched world issues and the group discussed them - after the 1950s the group frequently brought in speakers. The Discussion Group grew into a significant "town and grown" group of members from the Rice and Houston area community. The Discussion Group modeled itself after the League of Women Voters - women gathered to research and discuss current event and issues.
Rev. William Alexander Lawson (1929- ), is the founding Pastor of Wheeler Avenue Baptist Church located in Houston, Texas. Established in March 1962 with 13 members, the congregation has grown in excess of 3,500 members. The initial emphasis of the church was to help meet the spiritual needs of Baptists in a transitional community near Texas Southern University, but has become one of the leading Baptist churches in the city of Houston. Early in his career, Rev. Lawson served as Director of the Baptist Student Union and Professor of Bible Studies at Texas Southern University in Houston. He shared in the formation of the first Afro-American Studies Program at the University of Houston, where he taught classes in Sociology and the Black Church. Rev. Lawson is a community leader and social activist. He conceived and organized the United Way's Houston Homeless Initiative in response to the growing number of homeless and jobless persons. More than $4 million was raised in a four-year period in support of that initiative. He established a service agency, the Central City Comprehensive Community Center to serve community needs of citizens in the inner. Rev. Lawson also was instrumental in creating a program to register and mobilize voters in the predominantly African American precincts of the city. In 1996, a group of friends gifted to Rev. Lawson a non-profit organization called the William A. Lawson Institute for Peace and Prosperity ('WALIPP"), to help bridge the gap between the powerful and the powerless. Through this institute, Rev. Lawson brought attention to Olivewood Cemetery, the oldest African American cemetery in the city of Houston, which through many years of neglect had become very overgrown. The attention he brought to Olivewood Cemetery cemetery was the conduit that brought together all the businesses and organizations affected by the METRO rail system traveling down Main Street, eventually to be known as The Main Street Coalition.
Rev. Lawson created the first charter school for boys grades 6 through 8 within the Houston Independent School District called the WALIPP Preparatory Academy. Rev. Lawson is the recipient of the 1991 Silver Beaver Award in support of Scouting. He organized and sponsored the area's largest and most productive scouting program. In its 35-year history, Wheeler Avenue Baptist Church's troops have produced over 100 Eagles.
Rev. Lawson did his undergraduate work at Tennessee Aand I State University, Nashville, Tennessee where he received a Bachelor of Arts Degree, returning to deliver the 1962 Baccalaureate address. He graduated cum laude from Central Baptist Theological Seminary, Kansas City, Kansas where he received the Master of Theology and the Bachelor of Divinity degrees. While there, he majored in New Testament Interpretation and was appointed Teaching Fellow in Homiletics. In 1986 he received an Honorary Doctor of Divinity from Howard Payne University, in Brownwood, Texas; and in 1993, he received an Honorary Doctor of Humane Letters from the University of Houston. Rev. Lawson is married to Audrey H. Lawson, who is associated with The Ensemble Theatre. They have four children; Melanie, Cheryl, Eric and Roxanne, and two grandchildren, Robyn and Raven.
Robert L. Patten, the Lynette S. Autrey Professor of Humanities at Rice University, was born on April 26, 1939 in Oklahoma City. He received his B.A. from Swarthmore College in 1960. He went on to earn an M.A. (1962) and Ph.D. (1965) from Princeton University. After college, Patten lectured in English at Bryn Mawr College, leaving there in 1969 to take a position as Assistant Professor in the English Department at Rice University, where he became a full professor in 1976. In 1991 and 1992 Patten chaired Rice's English Department. The author of dozens of articles and reviews on nineteenth-century British literature, Patten used the materials in this collection to write a two-volume biography of George Cruikshank, entitled George Cruikshank's Life, Times, and Art (vol. 1, 1992; vol. 2, 1996). In 1999 The Guardian, a British newspaper, called Patten's biography one of the best books of the 1990s. Robert L. Patten was a Fulbright Scholar from 1963 to 1964 and a Guggenheim Fellow in 1980. He was also chosen as a Couper Scholar in 2004, served as president of the Rice University Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa from 1991 to 1994 and 1997 to 2002, and chaired the Dickens Society in 1973 and 1974. Patten has served in numerous capacities at Rice University, including the Sallyport Award Committee (1986-87), the Advisory Committee on Parking (1992-94), and the University Review Board (1982-84). In addition to George Cruikshank's Life, Times, and Art, Patten is the author of Charles Dickens and His Publishers (1978), and editor of George Cruikshank: A Revaluation(1974) and Literature in the Marketplace: Nineteenth-Century British Publishing and Reading Practices (1995). He also serves as editor of Studies in English Literature and founded and briefly edited the periodical Dickens Studies Newsletter.
KTRU began in February 1967 as a two-watt station, KHCR, broadcast by students from Hanzsen College in the Hanzsen basement. In 1968 the station relocated to the basement of the Rice Memorial Center and broadcast throughout campus on 580 AM as KOWL. During the process of licensing and transitioning to FM, students discovered that the call letters KOWL were already in use by a station in California and in 1969 the station was renamed KTRU, for The Rice University. In 1970 the FM committee was established as a guiding entity of the licensing process and an application was submitted to the FCC. When the license request was granted in 1971, KTRU's power upgraded to 10 watts and the station began broadcasting at 91.7 FM from the top of Sid Richardson College, reaching approximately an 8 mile radius of campus. At this stage, KTRU, frequently referred to as "the radio", identified itself primarily as a source of diverse and underexposed music while incorporating campus news and events of interests to emphasize the educational purposes of the service. The staff was entirely volunteer, comprised mainly of electrical engineering majors due to the technical complexities of the equipment. KTRU evolved from 250 watts in 1974 to 650 watts in 1980, followed by an unexpected leap to 50,000 watts in 1991. This major shift emerged from the ambitions of neighboring station KRTS 92.1 whose request to expand to 50,000 was denied by the FCC due to the complete overpowering of KTRU's broadcast that would result. KRTS reached an agreement with Rice administrators to pay for the installation and maintenance of the new transmitter, located off campus in Humble, a northwest suburb of Houston. One consequence of the move was the interference of the Texas Medical Center with the broadcast signal, causing poor reception on campus and a decrease in the student audience. In 1997 a committee was formed to redirect KTRU in terms of a "university asset". The tensions between KTRU staff and the university administration manifested in November 2000 when two DJ's protested an arrangement made to broadcast more athletic events by playing punk rock songs over the last half of a Rice women's basketball game. The station was abruptly shut down by administrators for nine days until reopened after a series of protests condemning the university's action and negotiations with the station.
KTRU's content progressed from art rock in the 1970s to alternative, experimental, and underground rock in the 1980s, mirroring the national musical movement of the time. This decade also brought forth the addition of specialty shows, which balanced the alternative bent with segments of jazz, blues, folk, classical, independent and world music. Most recently KTRU boasts a similar eclectic mix of tunes directed away from the mainstream and towards open-minded tastes. Additionally, KTRU broadcasts Rice athletic events, interviews, public lectures of Rice affiliates, concerts from the Shepherd School of Music, and news and events relating to the campus and beyond.
Up until 2010, KTRU broadcasted twenty-four hours a day from a 50,000 watt antenna and streamed online from the Ley Student Center at Rice University. As of April 28, 2011, KTRU no longer broadcasted on the 91.7 frequency, which had been sold to the University of Houston. It only streamed music online until KPFT allowed KTRU to broadcast on its HD2 channel.
For more information, visit KTRU on-line at http://74.53.234.138/.
Ellington Field was officially opened November 27, 1917, as the United States' largest pilot and navigator training base, and the nation's first aerial bombing school. By the end of World War I, Ellington Field had grown to the size of a small city which housed 20,000 men and 250 aircraft. Like most bases, it was closed after World War I, but unlike most other military installations, it was reopened and saw at least partial use until World War II, when it was rebuilt as one of ten strategic defense bases in the United States. It was the only strategic defense base on the Gulf Coast. The location of the field was, and still is, crucial to the defense of the Houston Ship Channel, the ports of Galveston and Houston and one of the United States' largest oil refining centers. In 2005, the field was once again expanded to become a Joint Reserves base, to house the combined military forces Reserve Units. In 2005, the U.S. Department of Defense recommended retiring Ellington Field's 147th Fighter Wing F-16 Falcon fighter jets. The aircraft were replaced with MQ-1 Predator unmanned drones and the unit was redesignated as the 147th Reconnaissance Wing. The ANG 272nd Engineering Installation Squadron, was also relocated to Ellington Field. From 1976 to 2007, Ellington Field was partially owned and managed by the Houston Airport System, and the base was also home to the Texas State Guard, NASA's Johnson Space Center, a U.S. Coast Guard Search and Rescue unit, and other aviation related businesses.
Kathryn Black Morrow (1948- ) assembled this collection during her research for a master's thesis, which she completed at the University of Houston, Clear Lake campus, in 2003. She expanded her thesis research and published a history of Ellington Field called Defender of America's Gulf Coast, A History of Ellington Field, Texas 1917-2007' in 2007. Ms. Morrow was born in Houston Texas, and works as a researcher, writer of Texas history, and archivist. Her other books include "Guide to the Texas Slave Trade Series, 1818-1886, The 79th Aviation Squadron, Ellington Field, Texas, in World War II, Southeast Texas Colored Voter Registrations, 1867-1869," and "Meant to Fly; The Memoirs of Captain A.J. High, Pilot for Trans-Texas Airways."
Anah Marie Leland, daughter of Marie Angelique Schoenberger and Francis W. Leland, was born Oct. 12, 1901. She had one brother, Eaton Francis Leland. She was originally from Chicago, IL, but came to Houston in 1910 and attended Central High School and Rice Institute. She graduated Central High School in 1918 and Rice Institute in 1922 with a degree in Philosophy. While at Rice she met James Lockhart Autry III and became engaged. However, Autry died in 1922 (he graduated 1921) shortly before the wedding. Anah Marie at some point moved in with the Autry family in Courtlandt Place and became romantically involved with Autry's best friend, W.M. Streetman, an attorney with Andrews and Kurth. They became engaged and married in 1925. She was actively involved in the early cultural, civic and social activities of Houston. She died in Houston on Feb. 20, 1995 and is buried in Glenwood Cemetery.
Edward W. Kelley, Jr. was president of Kelley Industries, a Houston-based holding company with businesses in manufacturing and distribution. He then served as chairman of the board of Investment Advisors, also in Houston. In 1987, his valuable perspective as a business executive was called upon when he began a term of service as a governor on the Federal Reserve board. He was instrumental in preparing the Federal Reserve system for Y2K, to make sure the Federal computer systems would keep running as the year 1999 turned over into 2000. These preparations helped the same system keep running effortlessly after the 2001 terrorist attacks. Kelley served on the Federal Reserve board until 2001, when he retired. He was honored in 2005 by having the new Federal Reserve branch bank building in Houston named after him, and praised by then Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan in a speech at the building's dedication.
The prints come from the estate of antique collector William Glenn Van Nichols, Birmingham, Alabama who has visited Italy in 1950's.
In 1959 the Cypress Creek Course was opened for play, designed by Ralph Plummer. This course has hosted tournaments such as the 1967 Ryder Cup, the 1969 U.S. Open, multiple Tour Championships, the U.S. Amateur, and the Houston Champions International, which was a PGA Tour event. There are 2 courses, Cypress Creek, and Jackrabbit. The Club boasts several hundred members with single-digit handicaps, a statistic that can be matched by only a handful of other clubs in the country.
James Newton Demaret (May 24, 1910 – December 28, 1983) was an American professional golfer. He won 31 PGA Tour events in a long career between 1935 and 1957 and was the first three-time winner of the Masters.
Demaret was born in Houston, Texas. He reached his peak in the late 1940s with wins in the Masters in 1947, runner-up to Ben Hogan in the 1948 U.S. Open, and leading money winner and Vardon Trophy winner in 1947. He reached the semifinals of the PGA Championship four times in all but never won. He played on three Ryder Cup teams: 1947, 1949, and 1951. His career declined in the 1950s although he managed several key wins including the 1952 Bing Crosby Pro-Am. Demaret was elected to the World Golf Hall of Fame in 1983. In 2000, he was ranked as the 20th greatest golfer of all time by Golf Digest magazine. Known for his keen sense of humor and colorful outfits, Demaret was one of first Tour pros to become involved in golf broadcasting. After working as a commentator for "All Star Golf" in the early '60s, he replaced George Rogers as co-host for Shell's Wonderful World of Golf along with Gene Sarazen in 1966. Jimmy Demaret was a guest on "I Love Lucy" in the early 1950s. The over-70s groupings on the Senior PGA Tour were named the Friends of Demaret in his honor. He died of a heart attack in Houston, Texas as he was getting ready for a round of golf.
John Joseph "Jack" Burke, Jr. (born 29 January 1923) is an American professional golfer who was most prominent in the 1950s. He first rose to fame with two lopsided victories in the 1951 Ryder Cup matches. He was subsequently selected for the 1953, 1955, 1957, and 1959 teams, serving as playing captain in 1957. He also served as non-playing captain in the 1973 matches.
Burke was born in Fort Worth, Texas. He turned professional in 1940. He won 16 PGA Tour events in his career, including the 1956 Masters and PGA Championship. Perhaps his most famous match was his nine-hour, 40-hole quarterfinal loss to Cary Middlecoff in the 1955 PGA Championship. Burke won the Vardon Trophy for lowest scoring average in 1952 and was selected PGA Tour Player of the Year in 1956.
After retiring from competition, Burke, along with Jimmy Demaret, was the main force in creating the Houston Champions Golf Club which has been the site of many PGA Tour events, as well as the 1969 U.S. Open and 1993 U.S. Amateur. He became the fifth recipient of the PGA Tour Lifetime Achievement Award in 2003, and was inducted into the World Golf Hall of Fame in 2000. Burke shares his permanent locker at Augusta National Golf Club, home of The Masters in Augusta, Georgia with Tiger Woods. As tradition dictates, both keep their prized green jackets, awarded to the annual winner of the tournament, in a wooden, finished locker with gold name plates on the front, with each year listed for the year they won.
Sources:
Rule, Bob (with forward by Ben Hogan) (1976). "Champions Golf Club 1957-1976".
Page/International Communications, United States. 2003, second edition.
Champions Golf Club (April 2, 2009). Retrieved April 27, 2009 from http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Champions_Golf_Club
Jimmy Demart (April 21, 2009). Wikipedia. Retrieved April 27, 2009 from http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jimmy_Demaret.
Jack Burke Jr. (April 21, 2009). Wikipedia. Retrieved April 27, 2009 from http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jack_Burke_Jr.
Vicki Colvin
Kenneth S. Pitzer-Schlumberger Professor Emeritus of Chemistry
Research Statement Professor Colvin's research explores how nanoscale particles interact with the environment and living systems. Her research draws on both synthetic chemistry for the preparation and control of novel nanophase systems as well as physical chemistry for the investigation of their unusual behavior. Currently her projects draw on the unique and responsive behavior of nanoparticles to solve problems related to water purification and targeted cell death.
[The following biographical materials were retrieved on August 12, 2009 from http://chem.rice.edu/FacultyDetail.cfm?RiceID=602]
Kristen Kulinowski
Faculty Fellow in Chemistry
Dr. Kulinowski is a Faculty Fellow in the Department of Chemistry at Rice University and Director for External Affairs for the Center for Biological and Environmental Nanotechnology (CBEN). She currently serves as the Director of the International Council on Nanotechnology (ICON), an international, multi-stakeholder organization whose mission is to develop and communicate information regarding potential environmental and health risks of nanotechnology thereby fostering risk reduction while maximizing societal benefit. She has experience as a chemical researcher, educator, curriculum developer, administrator, outreach coordinator and policy fellow.
Since 2004, Dr. Kulinowski has been actively engaged in developing and promoting the International Council on Nanotechnology (ICON) which provides a neutral forum in which experts from academia, governments, industry and nonprofit organizations can explore questions of nanotechnology's impact on environment, health and safety (EHS). She directed an effort that resulted in the web publication of the first publicly available database of citations to peer-reviewed papers on nano EHS. Other activities of ICON include a survey of best practices for nanomaterial handling in the workplace and a public portal of information on nanotechnology EHS.
Dr. Kulinowski has extensive experience in science education, particularly in developing innovative curricula at the undergraduate level, and developed Rice’s first introductory undergraduate course on nanotechnology. From 2002-2004 Dr. Kulinowski served as CBEN Executive Director for Education, developing and managing an educational outreach portfolio of programs for audiences that range from middle school children to adults. During this time the center established itself as a national leader in nanotechnology educational outreach.
Prior to joining CBEN, she was a lecturer in chemistry at Cal Poly (San Luis Obispo) for three years and came to Rice as an instructor in chemistry in 1998. In 2001 she was selected by the Optical Society of America and SPIE-The International Society for Optical Engineering as their Congressional Science Fellow and worked in the D.C. office of a member of the U.S. House of Representatives on issues including weapons of mass destruction, anti-terrorism legislation and domestic nuclear power security. She was instrumental in shepherding through new legislation on the stockpiling of potassium iodide near nuclear power plants. As a longtime volunteer with American Red Cross Disaster Relief Services, Dr. Kulinowski brought food and water to rescue workers at the Pentagon on September 11, 2001.
Dr. Kulinowski is highly sought after as a speaker and has given invited talks on issues of nanotechnology environmental health and safety and science policy throughout the US, Europe and the Middle East. She has consulted with governments and governmental advisory bodies regarding responsible nanotechnology, and serves as chair of the ASTM International Subcommittee E56.03 on Environment, Health and Safety. Dr. Kulinowski earned a B.S. in chemistry at Canisius College and her M.S. and Ph.D. in chemistry at the University of Rochester.
Selected Publications Kulinowski, K.M. and V.L. Colvin "Backgrounder on nanoparticles and amyloid diseases." Virtual Journal of Nanotechnology Environment, Health & Safety, April (2007).
Colvin, V.L. and K.M. Kulinowski "Nanoparticles as catalysts for protein fibrillation." PNAS (2007): 0703194104.
Kulinowski, K.M., D.R. Johnson, and J. Baker "Nanotechnology & environmental professionals." EnviroMentor, 6(3) (2007).
Kulinowski, K.M. "The International Council on Nanotechnology: A new model of engagement, in Nanoscale: Issues and Perspectives for the Nano Century." (2007).
"A role for all, with aid from government." The Environmental Forum, July/August (2005): 45.
Kulinowski, Kristen M. "Nanotechnology: From "Wow" to "Yuck"?." Bulletin of Science, Technology and Society, 24 (2004): 13-20.
Kulinowski, K.M., et al. "Porous metals from colloidal templates." Advanced Materials, 12(11) (2000): 833-838.
Kulinowski, K.M. "Incorporating nanotechnology into K-12 education, in Nanotechnology: Societal implications II Individual perspectives." : 322-327.
Kulinowski, Kristen M.; Colvin, Vicki L. "The Environmental Impact of Engineered Nanomaterials." (In Press)
Presentations "Nanotechnology: The Science Behind the News." American Bar Association Quick Teleconference. (January 2007)
"An Update on Nanotechnology." Houston Bar Association Environmental Section Luncheon Meeting. (February 2008)
"Effective Office Visits." Science Education for New Civic Engagements and Responsibilities teleconference. (March 2008)
"National Citizens Technology Forum on Human Enhancement, Identity & Biology." North Carolina State University web dialogue. (March 2008)
"International Nano-EHS Research Needs Assessment." AAAS Southwest Regional Meeting, Albuquerque. (April 2008)
Awards
Congressional Science Fellowship, Optical Society of America and SPIE-The International Society for Optical Engineering. (9/01-8/02). [ The following biographical materials were retrieved on August 12, 2009 from http://chem.rice.edu/FacultyDetail.cfm?RiceID=1200 ]
The Admission Committee consists of faculty and students who participate in the admissions process at Rice University, as well as regularly evaluate the university's recruitment and admission methods.
Takao Doi, who received his doctorate from Rice, carried this cloth image of the Orion Nebula on the Unites States Space Shuttle Endeavour mission STS-123. The Endeavour launched at 2:28 a.m. March 11, 2008 from launch pad 39A at Kennedy Space Center, Florida. Doi was a mission specialist on that mission.
The Committee on Disasters and Emergencies (aka Disasters and Defense Committee) was assembled in 1961 to deal with the problem of fallout shelters. Until 1964, the committee dealt only with emergencies and/or disaster situations, leaving primary responsibility for ordinary safety precautions with the departments. When the name was changed to the Committee of Campus Safety, it was intended that the committee would play a reviewing and reinforcing role with respect to safety standards on the campus.
Rice University sociology professor Elizabeth Long's extensive research into the history and growth of reading clubs and their impact on social change is reflected in these papers. Professor Long majored in history at Stanford University and later earned Master's and PhD degrees in sociology at Brandeis University. She joined Rice's Department of Sociology in 1978 after teaching women's studies at Wellesley College and M.I.T. Long has taught a wide variety of courses including the history of sociology, the sociology of gender, feminist social thought, and contemporary sociological theory. In 2003 she was named Texas Professor of the Year by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching and the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education (CASE).
The Eyes of Texas television show was created by director Ray Miller at Houston's KPRC-TV and first aired in June 1969. After Ray Miler retired, KPRC-TV Houston news anchor Ron Stone took over as host. The show ran for 29 years, coming to a halt in 1998. In 2007, KPRC began a new series of Eyes of Texas (see http://www.click2houston.com/eyesoftexas/index.html).
Curious about the Von Minden Hotel and Theater in Schulenburg, Texas' longest operating combination hotel and theater? What about Camp Winiwaca in Rosebud? Did you know Mr. J. Moore, fiddle restorer, in Taylor? The Eyes of Texas show visited landmarks, holes in the wall, everyday folks – a delightful variety of things Texan.
All of the original Eyes of Texas shows from 1969-1978 were shot on film and to date, have not been transferred to tape or DVD. Those early shows on film are at KPRC-TV, not available at Rice University. However many of these stories reappear in later episodes beginning in 1978 and are available at Rice University.
Episodes began to be numbered in 1978, starting with episode 1, Sept. 2, 1978.
Ira Gruber was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania January 6, 1934. Pottstown, Pennsylvania was the town of residence. In 1951 Ira Gruber began studies at Duke University. While at Duke University Ira Gruber was a part of the United States Naval Reserve. July of 1955 Ira Gruber was called to active duty. He served on the USS Wiltsie were he was appointed a crypto security officer. Ira Gruber was released of active duty June 1957. Ira Gruber completed his undergraduate studies at Duke University (1955), and also received his PhD from Duke in 1961.
In 1961-62 Dr. Gruber was an instructor of history at Duke University. 1962-65 Dr. Gruber was a fellow at the Institute of Early American History and Culture. 1965-66 Dr. Gruber was an assistant professor of History at Occidental College. 1966 to 2008 Ira Gruber was professor of history at Rice University (Houston). During the time at Rice, Dr. Gruber was Masterson Department of History Chair from 1983-87. Rice University being a residential college system, Dr. Gruber served as Hanszen College Master from 1968-73. In 1979 Dr. Gruber held the position of John F. Morrison Professor at the U.S. Army Command and General Staff College. This position was as a visiting professor and ended in 1980. Dr. Gruber took another visiting professor position with the U.S. Military Academy in 1984-85. Ira Gruber retired from Rice University in 2008.
Ira Gruber received the George R. Brown Award for Excellence in Teaching at Rice in 2001, as well as the George R. Brown Award for Superior Teaching twice, once in 1974 and again in 2003. While publishing many articles, this major writings have been on Early American History and Warfare. His major books are: The Howe Brothers and the American Revolution, Warfare in Western World: Military Operations Since 1871, and John Peebles' American War: The Diary of a Scottish Grenadier
Rice University's Office of the Controller properly records all appropriate financial transactions of the University in a timely manner and designs processes, procedures, and systems to safeguard the University's financial resources. Various areas of the Controller's Office are Benefits Accounting, Cashier's Office, Current Funds, Investment Accounting, Loan Collections, Payments / Disbursements, Payables / Payment Solutions, Payroll, Property Accounting and Research and Cost Accounting. Their administrative partners are Human Resources, Administrative Systems, and the Office of Sponsored Research.
Historically, Rice University policies and policy changes were developed in the various departments of the University and submitted to the President's office for approval in paper form. In 1995, a project was begun by faculty member Prentiss Riddle to compile a comprehensive collection of all university policies and provide them in a computer readable format.
Susan Louise Clark, professor of German and Slavic Studies at Rice University, was born April 21, 1948 in Canton, Ohio. She graduated from Mount Union College in Alliance, Ohio, and received a doctoral degree in Comparative Literature from Rutgers University in 1973. She came directly to Rice University and, in 1985, was promoted to Full Professor of German and Slavic Studies. She was a member of numerous professional organizations, and was highly regarded as a feminist scholar.
These photographs span 35 years of Rice University history, and document annual events such as Commencement and Orientation Week, as well as campus buildings and people. Many are in color.
The Committee on Affirmative Action was organized in 1970 to review progress in equal employment opportunities and to monitor progress towards the University's goals for new hire.
Stephen Carrie Blumberg was an accomplished book thief who stole 18,900 books from 327 libraries and museums in 45 states and Canada before being caught in 1991. Over 20 years he amassed his collection of rare books in his Iowa home in an attempt to create his own rare book collection, never intending to sell them. Blumberg stole numerous color plates from journals in Rice's Fondren Library in the 1980s. When the FBI confiscated his collection, and attempted to return the books to the libraries from which they were stolen, the task was complicated by the fact that Blumberg had removed each library's ownership marks. It is believed that this group of prints represents only what was stolen from Fondren Library, but complete accuracy on this point is not possible. It was also determined that the original journals from which these plates were cut were in such bad condition that returning the plates to them would not be possible. Therefore they have been maintained in their original order since their investigation and return.
Blumberg's stolen book collection was valued at $5.3 million. He served nearly 6 years in prison for the thefts.
Clark Bruster, a veteran of World War I, was attached to the Military Police unit' 78th Field Artillery and served at Camp Logan, Houston, Texas and overseas in France. He was a resident of Waverly, New York, home of his family.
Scientia: An Institute for the History of Science and Culture was conceived by Salomon Bochner and Albert van Helden in 1980. Its purpose is to promote scholarship and research in the general area of history of science and culture for the benefit of the university and Houston community. Its activities include sponsoring the Bochner Lectures on an annual or biannual basis; sponsoring Scientia Colloquia lectures on a regular basis throughout the year; and formal and informal meetings between the organizational members for discussion and formation of policy.
Excerpted from the Scientia Charter. For more information, see http://scientia.rice.edu.
Lynn Sakowitz Wyatt, born July 16, 1935, is a prominent Houston-based international socialite, arts patron, and philanthropist. Lynn Wyatt is a third-generation Texan, daughter of the late Bernard Sakowitz and Ann Baum, and sister of Texas high fashion retailer Robert Sakowitz. She married oil and gas executive Oscar Wyatt in 1963 and moved into Allington, a Houston mansion in the River Oaks neighborhood that became known as the "Wyatt Hyatt" for the frequency of visits by royal notables and entertainment icons, such as long-time friend Princess Grace of Monaco, Joan Collins, Elton John and Mick Jagger. In addition to foreign nobility and celebrities, she had also cultivated friendships with several couturiers and was inducted into the International Best Dressed List Hall of Fame in 1977. Her classic style and Southern flair has led to her appearance on magazines covers and amongst the pages of American and Paris Vogue, Town & Country, Vanity Fair, and Harper's Bazaar. In 2000, she was recognized as "Socialite of the Century" by Texas Monthly magazine. She has made great contributions to France, was admitted to the Order of Arts and Letters for significant cultural enrichment, and opened the summer season for over three decades with a lavish birthday party in Monte Carlo on the Cote d'Azur.
She has an extensive record of awards and honors for her lifelong commitment to philanthropy and leadership in the upper echelons of Houston society and was commissioned as an Ambassador of Goodwill for the state of Texas in 1980. Many of her efforts in fundraising and chairing events have concentrated on local fine arts, including the Houston Grand Opera, MFA, Houston Ballet, and Alley Theatre. She recently accepted the first-ever Performing Arts Advocate Award for her contributions to the performing arts in Houston. She was invited by Prince Rainier of Monaco to be a Founding Trustee of the Princess Grace Foundation U.S.A., on which Board she continues to serve, raising and distributing funds to assist emerging talent in theater, dance, and film. Internationally, she has chaired festivities benefitting the Red Cross and the American Hospital of Paris. Her interest in disease prevention and health has led to her charitable participation on the inaugural board of the Medical Prevention and Research Institute in Houston. She has also been recognized for her contributions to women's achievements, including her appointment to the Board of the U.S. Naval Academy by President Reagan as one of the first woman advisors where she served for eight years.
William Martin (Ph.D, Harvard, 1969), is the Harry and Hazel Chavanne Emeritus Professor of Religion and Public Policy in the Department of Sociology at Rice. Since his retirement from teaching in June 2005, he serves as the Chavanne Senior Fellow for Religion and Public Policy at the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy at Rice. His areas of specialization include religion, criminology, and issues related to drug use and drug policy. He has been a professor at Rice since 1968.
Professor Martin's recent research and writing have focused in two areas: 1) religious fundamentalism and its impact in the political arena, in the United States and elsewhere; and 2) issues related to drugs, with particular emphasis on ways to reduce the harms associated with drug abuse and drug policy. In this connection, he has organized and chaired a series of programs at conferences at the Baker Institute dealing with these issues.
After several years of experience as a boy preacher, Bill Martin attended Abilene (Texas) Christian University, where he received B.A. (1958) and M.A. (1960) degrees in Biblical Studies and taught for one year as a graduate assistant. He then attended Harvard Divinity School, where he received the B.D. degree in 1963. In 1969, he received his Ph.D. from Harvard, in a program known as Religion and Society, a joint effort between the Divinity School and the Department of Social Relations. His dissertation, Christians in Conflict: The Role of the Clergy in Racial Conflict in Rochester, New York, was prepared under the direction of Harvey Cox, Joseph Fichter, and Thomas Pettigrew. At Harvey Cox's suggestion, he submitted an article based on his thesis to The Atlantic Monthly, which published it as the lead article in its December 1967 issue. Flushed with the pleasure of having his work read by large numbers, Bill Martin began to follow an unusual career path of publishing mainly in high-quality magazines such as The Atlantic, Harper's, Esquire, and Texas Monthly, for which he wrote a three-year monthly series of articles on Texas churches that led to his being the subject of a "60 Minutes" segment in September 1979. During the 1970s and 1980s, Professor Martin concentrated mainly on religious broadcasters and was one of the first academicians to give serious attention to what came to be known as the Electronic Church. At the end of the 1970s, this led naturally to increased attention to fundamentalist involvement in politics and the rise of the movement known as the Religious Right. This work culminated, after dozens of articles, in his writing "With God on Our Side: The Rise of the Religious Right in America" (Broadway Books, 1996), the companion volume to the PBS mini-series of the same name and for which he served as chief consultant. A revised edition of both the book and the video series appeared in the summer of 2005. His writings on various aspects of evangelical and fundamentalist religion also led to his being given the opportunity write "A Prophet with Honor: The Billy Graham Story" (William Morrow, 1991), regarded as the most authoritative biography of the famed evangelist. An updated version of this book is in progress [as of July 1998]. In addition to these historical and sociological publications, Professor Martin also wrote "My Prostate and Me: Dealing with Prostate Cancer" (Caddell and Davies, 1994), an account of his own successful bout with this disease. As a result, he has appeared on more than 150 radio and television programs to discuss prostate cancer and regularly counsels with men and families touched by the disease.
More recently, as noted above, Bill Martin has taken an active role in the Baker Institute, organizing and chairing programs and conferences on the impact of religion, particularly various forms of fundamentalism, on public policy, and on ways to reduce the harms associated with drug abuse and drug policy. Many of these papers are available on the Baker Institute website.
Bill Martin received a number of teaching awards during his years as a professor, including the George R. Brown Life Honor Award, which made him ineligible for most additional awards given by Rice. At age sixteen, he decided to become a college professor as a consequence of exposure to particularly inspiring and dedicated teachers he encountered during his freshman year in college. As he enters partial retirement after more than thirty-seven years at Rice, he still regards it as a fine decision.
Recent Publications
"With God on Their Side: Religion and American Foreign Policy," Chapter 11 in Hugh Heclo and Wilfred M. McClay, "Refurnishing the Public Square: Religion and Public Policy in Twentieth-Century America," (Woodrow Wilson Center/Johns Hopkins University Press, 2003). "Amen," Texas Monthly, December 2002. Billy Graham's October 2002 Metroplex Mission. "Embracing the Lite" in Arvind Sharma," editor, Religion in a Secular City: Essays in Honor of Harvey Cox. Trinity Press International, 2001. "With God on Their Side" Georgetown Journal of International Affairs, Winter/Spring 2000, pp. 7-14. "Billy Graham" Christian History, 65 (Vol. XIX, No. 1), Spring 2000. Pp. 12-16 "The Christian Right and American Foreign Policy" Foreign Policy, Spring 1999, pp. 66-80.
Rice University News and Media Relations has also been known in the past as News and Publications. This office creates and manages news releases on behalf of the university.
John Robert "Bobby" May graduated from Rice University as a student athlete in 1965. He was the Athletic Director for Rice University from 1988 to 2006. During that period the Athletics Department brought home 26 conference championships, including the 2003 NCAA baseball championship. In 2002 Rice received the USA Today/NCAA Academic Achievement Award for maintaining the top student-athlete graduation rate in the nation. Prior to serving as the Athletic Director, May worked as an assistant coach, then head coach for the Men's Track team for 12 years. May retired in 2006.
Beginning in 1973, the Rice Center for Community Design + Research was an organization within the School of Architecture at Rice University. In 1978 it was expanded to the entire University, and the name was shortened to Rice Center. Its purpose was to conduct research for both public and private entities. Internally it created research projects judged beneficial to the Houston and Texas community. These independent research projects were funded by substantial foundation grants and private contributions. In approximately 1975 it was designated a National Center of Research Excellence by the Urban Mass Transit Administration and received long term support for transportation research. This collection includes the Rice Center projects that were published; additional projects took place that were not published. It also includes material created at the University of Louisville that served as examples of the kinds of research anticipated.
Donald L. Williams, the first Executive Director, became President and COO in 1978, remaining in that position until 1985 when he resigned to return to the private sector. The Center continued to operate through 1991.
The University Welfare Committee, elected in October 1962 by the faculty, met for the first time Nov. 26, 1962. President Pitzer had asked for this committee to consider all matters not dealt with by other committees. Topics were to be initiated within or outside the committee. The members would then examine and criticize issues brought before them and report their findings to President Pitzer and the faculty. The committee functioned somewhat as a grievance committee and dealt with a diverse number of matters over the years which ranged from inadequate lighting on campus, faculty pension plans and tenure, to student-faculty-administration relationships. It was out of the latter issue that in May 1971 a University Council was formed with representatives from the student body, the faculty, and the administration. It functioned as the primary adviser to the president on policy decisions and matters affecting the operation of the University. At the same time a Faculty Council was formed, constituted partly by faculty members of the University Council. The Faculty Council assumed all the duties of the Committee on University Welfare, which disbanded in 1971. (J. McDermott, 5/5/82)
The Rice University Committee on Undergraduate Teaching's charge is to "promote excellence in undergraduate teaching by assisting with the evaluation of teaching, by providing support to faculty for participation in appropriate courses and seminars, and by providing funds for new instructional methods and programs". (Committee announcement, February 1972)
The Committee on Student Affairs (later named the Student Activities Committee and then again named the Committee on Student Affairs) was a policy making committee which was formed to regulate undergraduate student activities and aspects of student life on Rice campus. On April 1, 1965, the Student Affairs Committee was re-formulated into a Student Activities Committee, along with, a new committee the Committee of Undergraduate Affairs was to coordinate student affairs with attention to undergraduate student life. The committee was intended to be an executive policy-determining committee with no student members. The Student Activities Committee formed policy on issues such as student discipline, alcohol, and dorm rules. However, by July 1965, membership of the committee had changed to include students. In 1975, the committee returned to its former name - the Committee on Student Affairs.
The Rice University Naval ROTC program is a part of the Houston Consortium, with a sister program at Prairie View A&M. The Rice Naval ROTC unit serves Rice University, University of Houston, Texas Southern University, and Houston Baptist University. The Rice Naval ROTC unit is relatively small with around only forty members, but it is known for being an elite, well-run unit, whose purpose historically has been the training of nuclear power officers for submarine and surface vessels.
The Houston Consortium is comprised of one company of three platoons, and its goal is to prepare students for careers as officers in the United States Navy and United States Marine Corps. It is led by Captain Jeffrey K. Gruetzmacher, a United States Navy Commanding Officer (Aviator) and Lieutenant Colonel Stuart R. Lockhart, a United States Marine Corps Executive Officer (Infantry). The Rice Unit is led by Captain Eric S. Christophe, USMC, Lieutenant James H. Kepper, US Navy, and Lieutenant (Junior Grade) Jason A. Fite, US Navy.
The Committee on Public Lectures is charged with the organization of an appropriate number of public lectures to be presented under the auspices of Rice University. It selects the lecturers and lecture topics for recommendation to the President of the University and arranges for the housing and entertainment of the lecturers. It also provides for the locations of and publicity for the lectures.
William W. Akers, Professor Emeritus of Chemical Engineering at Rice University, earned his bachelors degree from Texas Tech University (1943) and his doctorate from the University of Michigan (1950). Professor Akers rose to prominence in the 1960's when he directed research in coordination with the Baylor College of Medicine that produced the first artificial heart. He chaired the chemical engineering department from 1955 to 1965. Since 1973 he has served Rice administratively as development director, vice president for external affairs, and as vice president for administration, while continuing to teach courses in separations processes and process design. He has represented the university in a wide variety of external relationships and is the author or coauthor of more than forty technical publications.
Akers died Nov. 5, 2017 at age 94. [https://news.rice.edu/2017/11/06/bioengineering-pioneer-longtime-professor-william-akers-dies/]
Dr. Gilbert R. Whitaker, Jr. earned a B.A. in economics from Rice University in 1953. From 1953 to 1956 he was an ensign in the U.S. Navy, serving as a gunnery officer on a destroyer. He then began graduate study in economics, first at Southern Methodist University and then at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, where he earned an M.S. in 1958 and a Ph.D. in 1961. His major in economics was theory, and his minor, statistics. In 1959-60 he had a Ford Foundation Dissertation Fellowship.
Dr. Whitaker's academic appointments were, chronologically, at Northwestern University (1960-1966); Washington University, St. Louis (1966-1976); Texas Christian University, Fort Worth (1976-1978); University of Michigan, Ann Arbor (1979-1997); and Rice University (1997-2005). At Texas Christian he was dean of the M. J. Neeley School of Business, and he joined the University of Michigan as dean of the School of Business Administration. There he rose to become provost and executive vice president for academic affairs. After retiring from the University of Michigan, he became dean and H. Joe Nelson III Professor of Business Economics at the Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Management at Rice University.
In addition to his work at these universities, Dr. Whitaker served in a variety of other educational organizations, including the University of West Indies, Kingston, Jamaica (external examiner, 1975-1978), the University of Wisconsin (system advisor, 1986 and 1995), the American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business (1977-1991), Consortium for Graduate Study in Management (director, 1971-1976; council of deans, 1985-1990), the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (chairman, visitation team for graduate program of the Graduate School of Business, 1987), Yale University (chair, accreditation review team for the Yale School of Management, 1998), Case Western Reserve University (chairman of the review committee for the Weatherhead School of Management, 1999), JSTOR (board of trustees and secretary/treasurer, 1995-2002), The Washington Campus Program (director, 1979-1988; vice chairman, 1983-1985; chairman, 1985-1988), Association of Governing Boards of Universities and Colleges (1993-2004), Forum for the Future of Higher Education (board of directors, 1997-2004), and The Learning Alliance (consultant, 2003-2004).
Dr. Whitaker's experience included contributions to the following private corporations: Handleman Company (Director, 1989-1999), Lincoln National Corporation (Director, 1986-2002), Structural Dynamics Research Corporation (Director, 1986-2001), Johnson Controls, Inc. (Director, 1986-2001), and Westlake Chemical (Director, 2004-2007).
The Rice Writing club was formally established in 1920 with the stated purpose, "to associate students of Rice Institute in a fellowship for mutual encouragement and assistance in the craft of writing."
In 1947, Rice University received a group of small Egyptian artifacts that, given the lack of exhibition space available on campus at the time, were placed on extended loan to the Museum of Fine Arts. These artifacts were the first known gift of works of art given to the University. Additions to the collection, however, were scarce until 1965 when the emerging Department of Art and Art History called for a collection for exhibition conducive to student education. Periodic purchases of original prints were made from 1965 to 1970. The Rice Collection later acquired more diverse works such as Pre-Columbian pottery and sculpture, African sculpture, and contemporary prints. Presently, works from the Rice Art Collection can be seen all over the Rice Campus.
The Department of Biochemistry and Cell Biology conducts exciting research in emerging bioscience fields, educates graduate and undergraduate students, and communicates advances in these fields to the scientific community and beyond. Particular fields recognized among faculty pursuits include biochemistry, metabolic engineering, biophysics, structural biology, microbiology, molecular genetics, neurobiology, developmental biology, plant biology, and signal transduction, among other areas. The breadth of the program enables graduate students to have a wide spectrum of topics available when choosing their area of concentration and affords undergraduates ample opportunity to explore their individual interests in research. Cooperation with a number of centers and specialized training programs at Rice and the TMC further enrich the academic environment. Innovative teaching and mentoring programs have established a culture emphasizing quality and communication skills that has achieved greater impact through outreach programs that promote bioscience education. (excerpted from Department of Biochemistry and Cell Biology home page, http://biochem.rice.edu/)
The Dramatic Club at Rice Institute pre-dates the modern residential college system in which theatrical productions are often staged by colleges.
Soundings was a literary anthology containing works by Rice students and others connected with Rice, under the editorship of George Williams, Professor of English at Rice.
The Department of Space Science was established by Rice University in 1963. The new department would begin with four faculty members and nine graduate students in the spring of 1963, focused on research and high-level instruction in a variety of cutting-edge fields.
By 1965 there were nine Faculty and three Research Associates. The instructional program was at the graduate level except for one senior-level introductory course. Both the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees were offered. Begun in 1965, the Space Science and Technology Building was funded by a $1.6 million dollar NASA grant and completed in the fall of 1966.
By 1966-67 there were twelve Faculty and five Research Associates and Lecturers, including a Scientist Astronaut on leave with NASA. There were then fifty grad students, many of them associated with the Manned Space Center or aerospace contractors. Course offerings had also expanded to include two undergraduate-level survey courses.
Brady Tyson was editor of the Rice Institute's student newspaper, the Rice Thresher, from 1948 to 1949.
William Marsh Rice was born in Springfield, Massachusetts on March 14, 1816. He was the third of ten children born to David and Patty Hall Rice. Little is known about Rice's childhood but records indicate that he worked for a while as a shopkeeper in Springfield before deciding to move to Texas in 1838.
Rice started out in business as a merchant in Houston, Texas. His first business partnership with a Barnabas Haskill was formed in 1840 but dissolved by 1842. In 1844 Rice became a commission and forwarding merchant in partnership with Ebenezer B. Nichols, a successful Houston businessman. By 1850 Rice's siblings began to follow him to Houston and assisted in his ventures. On June 29, 1850 Rice married Margaret Bremond whose father Paul was one of Rice's many business partners. In the census of 1860, Rice is listed as having $750,000 in real and personal property, making him one of the wealthiest men in Texas at the time.
At least 15 enslaved people were included as Rice's property in 1860. According to county deed records and newspaper advertisements, Rice purchased, sold, and accepted mortgages on enslaved people; he also attempted to recapture enslaved people who fled him. In addition to extending credit to slaveowners who leveraged enslaved people as collateral, Rice also bought and sold cotton as a substantial portion of his antebellum business. Rice served on a secession committee in Houston after the 1860 presidential election, and during the Civil War, Rice and his wife Margaret raised money for Confederate soldiers. On August 13, 1863, Margaret Rice died, possibly from cholera or yellow fever. Shortly after his wife's death, Rice went to Monterrey, Mexico and stayed there until August of 1865 when he returned to Houston. In Monterrey, Rice smuggled cotton and manufactured goods across the Texas-Mexico border. Later in the summer of 1865, he went to Massachusetts for business and did not return to Houston until 1866. On June 26, 1867 Rice married for a second time. His second wife was Julia Elizabeth Baldwin Brown, a widow and a daughter of Horace Baldwin, one of the early mayors of Houston. Elizabeth's sister Charlotte was the wife of William's younger brother Frederick.
Rice and his second wife moved to New Jersey to live with Rice's sister Charlotte and her family. Rice and his wife divided their time between New York City and New Jersey with occasional trips to Houston to oversee business. During one of the Rices' visits to Houston, he was approached by Cesar Maurice Lombardi, who was interested in building a high school in Houston. Rice had been interested in endowing an educational institute of some kind, having revised his will twice previously to include a school for needy boys, first in New Jersey, then in New York City. After the meeting with Lombardi, Rice decided to fund an institute of higher learning in Houston. On May 19, 1891 the charter for the William M. Rice Institute for the Advancement of Literature, Science and Art was incorporated in Austin, Texas. Captain James Addison Baker, William's brother Frederic, Houston businessmen Emanuel Raphael, Cesar Lombardi, James E. McAshan and Alfred S. Richardson were named as the first board of trustees.
In article two of the charter: "(t)he objects, intents, and purposes of this Institution are declared to be the establishment and maintenance, in the City of Houston, Texas, of a Public Library, and the maintenance of an Institution for the Advancement of Literature, Science, Art, Philosophy and Letters; the establishment and maintenance of a Polytechnic school; for procuring and maintaining scientific collections; collections of chemical and philosophical apparatus, mechanical and artistic models, drawings, pictures and statues; and for cultivating other means of instruction..." The charter also required that the Institute only accept white students, which was changed in 1965. The institute was initially endowed with a promissory note for $200,000 to be paid upon Rice's death. Rice revised his will on September 26, 1896 and left the bulk of his estate to his namesake institute. During the battle over the estate two lawyers became involved with the proceedings and would end up greatly influencing the final results. Captain Baker, a trustee of the Rice Institute, served as William Rice's lawyer. Albert Patrick, the other lawyer, was hired by Orren Holt in 1898 to investigate the residency question in New York City. There Patrick met Charlie Jones, Rice's valet. The two spent a great deal of time together and slowly a plan was formed. At first it seemed that Patrick was only interested in the settlement of the contested will and was looking for any way to win. He convinced Jones, in the spring of 1900, to start poisoning Rice with mercury pills as a way to avoid a court battle. By the summer of 1900 Patrick came up with the idea to forge a will that left the majority of Rice's estate to himself and small sums to relatives and friends. The forged will was dated June 30, 1900.
On September 8, 1900 a hurricane struck the Gulf Coast and one of Rice's businesses, the Merchants and Planters Oil Company, suffered severe damage. The business manager telegraphed that they needed money for repairs and the sum was most of what Rice had available in his bank account. Patrick was worried at the loss of such a large sum of ready cash and he convinced Jones to use chloroform to kill Rice. On September 23, 1900 Rice was murdered by Jones. Patrick, in his haste to get hold of Rice's cash, tried to withdraw money from Rice's bank using a check forged by Jones right after Rice's death. The bank refused to honor the check since Patrick's name was spelled incorrectly. When calling to verify the check with Rice, the bank learned that he was dead. Since the circumstances were suspicious, the bank contacted Rice's Houston lawyer, Captain Baker.
When Baker arrived in New York City, he learned there had been a new will written up by Patrick. Baker was suspicious of the will since Rice had never notified him of any changes to the one Baker had drawn up on September 26, 1896. This suspicion led to a long and sensational trial where Patrick's version of the will was exposed as a forgery and the scheme to kill Rice was discovered. Patrick was found guilty of murder and forgery on March 26, 1902 and was sentenced to die in the electric chair. Jones, who confessed to his part of the events, ended up being released despite being the one who had actually committed the murder. Patrick's sentence was commuted to life imprisonment by the governor of New York, but eventually won a full pardon in 1912.
On February 6, 1902 Orren Holt settled the suit over Elizabeth's will for $200,000. After the trials and settlement, Captain Baker and the original Board of Trustees set about fulfilling Rice's dream to have an institute for higher learning in Houston, Texas. To guide them, the trustees chose as first president, a young mathematician and astronomer at Princeton University named Edgar Odell Lovett, who signed on as president in 1908. Lovett had earned doctorates both from the Universities of Virginia and Leipzig and had taught at Johns Hopkins, the University of Chicago, and Princeton, the most innovative American universities of the time. The trustees sent him on a worldwide tour of the "competition," where he interviewed faculty, inspected facilities, and developed an inspired vision of what might be accomplished on the plains of Texas with a blank-check charter, a generous endowment, and high ambitions. The goal was a university "of the highest grade" that kept "the standards up and the numbers down." Lovett shaped the university that Rice would become.
The Rice Institute opened on September 23, 1912, the anniversary of Mr. Rice's murder, with 77 students and a dozen faculty. An international academic festival celebrated the opening three weeks later, a spectacular event that brought Rice to the attention of the entire scholarly world. Four years later, at the initial commencement, 35 bachelor degrees and one master's degree were awarded, with the first doctorate conferred in 1918.
Some of the town lots referred to in this collection were acquired by William Marsh Rice and were turned over to Rice Institute in 1906 by the executors of his estate. Others were apparently bought by the Institute. It was noted in 1946 that most of the desirable lots had been disposed of through the years. The remaining lots were for the most part undesirable because of poor location, lack of utilities in the vicinity, or surface conditions. It was noted that in a few instances lots would be more salable if and when utilities were extended and drainage provided. It appeared in 1946 that this would be done fairly soon in certain sections of Bremond and Calvert, but it seemed doubtful that properties in the other towns would be benefited by these types of improvement for a number of years to come. Thus, as documents in this collection show, some lots continued to be held by Rice through the fifties, sixties, seventies, and as late as 1985.
The records pertaining to the Rice Hotel also begin with a purchase by William Marsh Rice. In 1886 he bought the hotel at the corner of Texas Ave. and Main St. in downtown Houston, then known as the Capitol Hotel, for back taxes. When he was murdered in 1900, the hotel was left to the newly chartered Rice Institute and was renamed the Rice Hotel. Under the terms of Rice's will, the land could not be sold; thus when in 1910 Jesse Jones made a proposal to the Institute trustees to lease the land and build a new hotel, the resulting deal was to lease Jones the site for ninety-nine years with an additional ninety-nine-year option. In addition to receiving revenue from this and other leases, the Institute also earned money on its endowment funds by making loans for construction. On June 1, 1910, an agreement was made between the Institute trustees and Jones to loan him a sum not exceeding $500,000, half the estimated cost at the time to build the hotel. A year later the loan of an additional $250,000 was agreed to, and it was agreed that one of the Institute trustees would be on the board of Jesse Jones's company, the Houston Hotel Association. When Jesse Jones died in 1956, his charitable foundation, Houston Endowment, became owner and operator of the hotel.
In 1971, Houston Endowment gave the hotel to Rice—now University, which still owned the land occupied by the building. At that time it was valued at $7.5 million. The University decided not to spend the $1.2 million necessary to bring the building up to current codes, it was bought by a New York corporation, refurbished and re-opened, but in 1977 it was sold at a foreclosure auction to the Rice Preservation Corporation. In 1978 Community Investors IX Ltd. purchased the building and bought the land from Rice University. Thus the value of the entire Rice Hotel property became part of the University endowment.
Gene L. Lee, military veteran, entrepreneur, and publisher, was born on October 5, 1926, in Canton, part of China's Guangdong province. While only a young boy, Lee's father left their village of Toisan and traveled to Canada. Lee's mother passed away soon thereafter and Lee was raised by his sister with financial assistance provided by their father in Canada. Lee rarely spoke of his early childhood, for it was certainly marked by upheaval and uncertainty.
Lee did, however, travel in a month-long journey to the United States in 1949. His family was instrumental in aiding his travels: his father helped pay for the ship voyage, uncles and cousins joined Lee, and he ultimately lived with his sister and her husband in Houston, Texas. Soon after arriving in Texas, Lee was drafted into the United States Army and was assigned to occupation duty in Germany. Lee fondly remembered his service in the military as a time in which he met people of great diversity and was exposed to a host of disciplines including classes on typing, mathematics, and history. These formative experiences reflected Lee's life-long ambition to learn as much as possible through self-education.
While in Germany Lee met his future wife, Hedy. Following a courtship of only six weeks, Gene and Hedy married. The couple knew very little English and used a pocket dictionary to assist their communication. The Lees lived for two years in Germany while Gene completed his military service.
The couple returned to Houston and Lee began working in at his uncle's grocery. Gene and Hedy, though, soon purchased their own market and, throughout the 1960s, turned it into a successful business. Lee exhibited a strong work-ethic and labored seven days a week. Gene's Food Market, located at 3404 Leeland, was a family enterprise; all five of the Lee children worked in the store.
In 1970 Lee opened Lee Printing Company in Houston. He had long expressed an interest in the printing business, took community college courses on the subject, and sought advice from some of Houston's existing printers. Lee Printing provided both English and Chinese printing services and even sold office supplies to other businesses.
The printing industry directed the already successful Lee toward publishing his own newspaper. In 1976, he introduced the region's first Chinese/English newspaper, the Southwest Chinese Journal. Similar to his success in the grocery and printing business, Lee's positive influence was easily seen in the printing industry. One of his employees, Wea Lee (no relation), a Lamar University graduate, later founded the Southern News Group, which publishes multiple Chinese-language papers.
Lee retired from his prosperous businesses in 1994 and handed the daily operations to his son, Sam. Gene Lee, in addition to being a successful entrepreneur and businessman was also an avid reader and dedicated to self-education. He immersed himself in classical Chinese literature, history, and poetry. A connoisseur of Chinese music, Lee played violin with a Cantonese opera group.
Gene Lee passed away on October 24, 2010, and was survived by his wife, Hedy, their five children, nine grandchildren, and one great-grandaughter.
Rice University opened in October 1912 as the Rice Institute.
The Student Association (SA) created the Rice Program Council (RPC) in 1971. It replaced the SA's Student Center Board, the Forum, and the Social Committee to become the official programming arm of the SA. Since its inception, RPC has managed Beer Bike, Esperanza, Rondelet, and other events. As of 2014, they plan all of the above plus Screw Your Roommate, Crush Party, various Willy Week events, and the Welcome Back Concert.
A five-day controversy rose on the campus of Rice University in February 1969 following the appointment of Dr. William H. Masterson by the Board of Trustees as the university's new President to succeed Kenneth Pitzer, who had resigned in August 1968. Members of the faculty and student body protested in particular the method by which Masterson had been appointed, which was perceived as a unilateral decision by the Board without sufficient consultation with the committee of faculty and students appointed earlier by the Board to assist in suggesting and screening candidates' names. A variety of personal objections to Masterson himself were also voiced, along with concern about appointment of a President from within the university (Masterson was a former graduate of Rice who had joined the faculty in the Department of History in 1951 and served later as Dean of Humanities before leaving Rice in 1966 to serve as President of the University of Chattanooga). As a result of the pressure created by the protests and by a campus-wide poll conducted among students and faculty (results of which were made known to Masterson), the controversy ended with Masterson's resignation as President on February 25th, five days after his appointment had been announced.
This collection contains offprints dating between 1897 and 2005, written by Rice University faculty members. 'Offprints' are reproductions of individual articles that were published in a scholarly journal. Thus, the material contained in this collection provides a sample of the writing and publication activity of many Rice University professors throughout the twentieth century.
The Rice University Office of Resource Development is responsible for obtaining gifts and grants from alumni, corporations, foundations and other university friends and supporters to further the academic and research goals of Rice University.
"The purpose of the Association of Rice Alumni (ARA) is to provide the means of a continuing relationship between the university and its former students.
The association strives to stimulate intellectual and social participation of all members of the ARA, and to enable them to contribute to and share in the enhancement of the university. In addition, the association endeavors to foster deeper concern among its members for the welfare of the university, to strengthen the bond of understanding between the university and the community, to encourage gifts, to attract outstanding students and faculty, and to contribute toward maintaining Rice as a university in keeping with the ideals and aims of its founder.
The Association of Rice Alumni (ARA) is governed by the ARA Board in conjunction with the Office of Alumni Affairs."
(Quoted from alumni.rice.edu/about_alumassoc.html, accessed July 25, 2011)
The decision of Allen Matusow to return to teaching after 14 years as serving as dean of the School of Humanities at Rice University prompted the creation of a search committee to identify candidates to fill the post.
Under the directive of provost, David Auston, the committee was charged with conducting a national search, including candidates from Rice University. Edith Wyschogrod, the J. Newton Rayzor Professor of Philosophy and Religious Studies acted as chair for the committee.
Stanford Professor Judith Brown was named the new dean on August 21, 1995. She obtained her undergraduate and master's degrees from the University of California at Berkeley and her Ph.D. in history from Johns Hopkins University.
The Office of University Relations at Rice University, also known as Public Affairs, is charged with collaborating closely with local organizations and individuals to communicate Rice's plans and priorities to our Houston neighbors while also striving to understand what's most important to them and share that perspective with university leaders.
Rice University's Office of the Provost oversees academic, instructional, and research-related matters.
In 1979, Rice President Norman Hackerman establishes the School of Social Sciences, separating the former Division of Humanities and Social Sciences. Social Sciences begins with 38 full-time faculty.
The Office of Admission handles new student admission and new faculty. It also promotes the university with travel and recruitment events.
The Department of Geology at Rice University was designed and organized by Dr. Carey Croneis in 1953. Dr. Croneis became the first Harry C. Wiess professor of geology before being named acting president of Rice then Chancellor in 1960 and 1961 respectively. John A. S. Adams, with Dr. Croneis, helped found the Geology Department and later served as Chairman of the Geology Department for thirty-four years. The Geology Department has recieved grants from the Welch Foundation and the United States Atomic Energy Commission, and worked with influential companies such as PeMex and Shell. Rice University's Geology Department, today the Department of Earth Science, continues to promote exploration of the earth, the atmosphere, and the evolution of the environment.
The thirteen organizations whose records constitute this collection are as follows:
1) Rice Institute chapter of Alpha Phi Omega, a service fraternity made up of men devoted to the oath and laws of the Boy Scouts of America. Records included are from 1949 through 1956.
2) Rice Institute student chapter of the American Society of Civil Engineers. Records included are from 1946-47 through 1958-59.
3) Rice Institute branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. Records included are from 1946-47 through 1961-62.
4) Rice Institute Class of 1961. Records range from Sept. 13, 1960 through May 20, 1962.
5) Rice Institute DeMolay Association. The records are from 1953 through 1956.
6) Rice Institute Engineering Society. The records range from 1946 through 1956.
7) Engineophytes. The records are from 1938 through 1941, when the organization became a chapter of Tau Beta Pi. The records of Tau Beta Pi, Gamma of Texas, from 1941 through 1962 are in a separate folder in this collection.
8) Forensic Society. Records are from 1953 through 1959.
9) Radio Club. Records are from 1946 through 1951.
10) Rice Institute Society of Chemical EDngineers (which became a chapter of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers in 1948). Records range from 1946 through 1957.
11) Sports Car Club. Records are from 1958 through 1960.
12) Tau Beta Pi, Gamma of Texas. This organization is a continuation of Engineophytes, for which there Is a separate folder in this collection. The Tau Beta Pi records range from 1940 through 1961.
13) Virginia Cleveland Literary Society. Records range from 1952 through 1959.
Thomas A. Rabson was born in Houston, TX on July 31, 1932 and graduate from Lamar High School in 1950. He attended Rice University from 1950 to 1959, earning a Bachelor of Art, Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering, Master of Arts in Physics, and Doctor of Philosophy in Physics. Dr. Rabson joined the Rice faculty in 1959 and built the Ph.D. program for Electrical Engineering, graduating the first doctoral student in his department. He served as professor of electrical engineering from 1970-2000 and was chairman of the department from 1979-1984. He was an active member of IEEE, the American Physical Society, the Optical Society of America, and the Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers. Additionally, he was a Rice representative on the U.S. Council for Energy Awareness and a consultant of a number of energy, electronics, and geophysical corporations, including Shell Oil Company, Exxon USA, Texas Instruments, Inc., and Motorola, Inc. He is also a member of Tau Beta Pi, Sigma Tau, and Sigma Xi and served as a National Science Foundation Science Faculty Fellow in Basel, Switzerland from 1965-1966. He has received such honors as Who's Who in the Southwest, American Men of Science, and program manager of Project Thesis Research at Rice University from 1968-1973. Dr. Rabson retired from Rice University after earning emeritus status in May 2000 and moved to Madisonville, Texas. He is widely recognized for his pioneering work in the field of lasers and his expertise on ferroelectric thin films and the properties and uses of lithium niobate.
The Woodson Research Center art collection has been accumulated over the years since the Rice Institute opened in 1912 with donations from Rice University and from Rice alumni. The collection mostly consists of items directly related to the history of Rice University, the Fondren Library, and the Woodson Research Center. Much of the collection is displayed in the Fondren Library in the Woodson Research Center; the remainder is stored onsite in the library.
Mary Hale Lovett was the wife of Edgar Odell Lovett, first President of the Rice Institute. Alice Dean was a member of the Rice Institute class of 1916, and the first Librarian at Rice. The Maclin-Fox-Dege Battery was part of the Texas Light Artillery, forming the 8th Field Battery of the Army of the Confederate States of America. In 1861 the Battery was stationed near Brownsville, later moving to the Galveston area. The battery was first commanded by Capt Robert B. Maclin, CSA. He was transferred in early 1862, and command passed to 1st. Lt P. Fox, CSA. In January 1864 P. Fox, by this time promoted to Captain, was in turn transferred and Capt. A.E. Dege, CSA, took command of the Battery.
The Rice University Office of Finance and Administration generated these records from 1938-2010. Most of the records were created during the tenures of Dean W. Currie, vice president of Finance and Administration, and Niell Binford, associate vice president of Finance and Administration. At the time of these records, Finance and Administration included the departments of Facilities and Engineering, the Controller, Human Resources, Administrative Computing, Food and Housing, Office of the Associate Vice President, and the Budget Office. The vice president of Finance and Administration oversaw the infrastructure of the university, the food services in the colleges, the human resouces department and the police department.
The Owen Wister Literary Society (OWLS) was founded by Adele Roensch in 1924. It was named after Owen Wister, an American writer famous for his novel The Virginian. The purpose of the organization was to further cultural and social interests on the Rice campus and to promote friendship, understanding, and fellowship among its members. Since 1924 a parallel society, consisting of OWLS alumnae, had been founded and its records are also included.
Rice University's Office or Research and Graduate Studies oversees graduate admissions, graduate studies, sponsored research and related areas.
The Office of Alumni Affairs, in association with the Association of Rice Alumni, maintains communication with Rice alumni, encouraging them to stay connected with the University intellectually and socially and to assist in maintaining the welfare of the University. The annual Homecoming and Reunion events are coordinated by a Committee Chairperson, serving on the Association of Rice Alumni Board. The Homecoming and Reunions committee provides events for alumni to connect with each other, oversees volunteers and speakers, and tracks participation levels.
The Rice University Office of Resource Development is responsible for obtaining gifts and grants from alumni, corporations, foundations and other university friends and supporters to further the academic and research goals of Rice University. This office, in conjunction with the Office of Corporate and Foundation Relations, hosts several fundraising events each year as part of their resource development program.
The Rice Institute of Biosciences and Bioengineering takes 1986 as its official formation date, but records in this collection show that the idea for the Institute can be traced to 1882, and specifically the letter in which Rice University President Norman Hackerman requested funding from George R. Brown of the Brown Foundation. Between 1982 and 1986 sufficient funds were raised to plan a building dedicated to biosciences, and construction was undertaken. The completed building, George R. Brown Hall, was dedicated in 1988. This collection includes records of donations from nearly 200 organizations and individuals, as well as records of specific locations in the building associated with particular donors.
Directors of the Rice IBB during the years represented in this collection were George J. Schroepfer (1986-91) and Larry V. McIntire (1991-2002). From the beginning, the mission of the IBB has been "to promote cross-disciplinary research and education encompassing the biological, chemical, physical and engineering disciplines." The Institute has pursued this mission "by providing opportunities for interaction among researchers at Rice, colleagues in the Texas Medical Center and other institutions, and industry." The result of these objectives has been creation of an environment "where students can meet the challenges" of the rapidly changing scientific world. [http://ibb.rice.edu, June 10, 2013]
The IBB reports to the Office of the Dean for the Wiess School of Natural Sciences, and the Institute director, a faculty member from one of the affiliated science and engineering departments, is appointed by the Office of the Dean and the IBB Faculty Steering Committee.
The Southern Association for Women Historians presents an annual meeting known as the Southern Conference of Women's History.
As the university's primary outlet for official statements and information, Rice University Office of News and Media Relations keeps the media and the institution's community informed about the latest campus developments. They research, develop and share press releases and record special events on video or audio.
Log records the travels of the Brig Dona Maria Thereza, a Portuguese ship piloted by Sergio Ribeiro.
The Chao Center for Asian Studies is a research institute attached to an undergraduate major at Rice University. The Center supports a model of Asian Studies that looks carefully and critically at the complex ways people in 'Asia' have been involved with one another and with the rest of the world, not only today, but also in the past. Toward these ends, they work closely with peer organizations in inter-Asia, indeed, in some cases with those whom they study, and in every case collaborating with scholars who pursue similar questions as they do.
The Chao Center for Asian Studies builds on the core initiatives outlined in Rice University President David Leebron's "Vision for the Second Century." These are: (1) visibly and substantially increasing our commitment to our research mission and raising our research and scholarship profile; (2) aggressively fostering collaborative relationships with other institutions to leverage our resources; (3) becoming an international university, with a more significant orientation toward Asia and Latin America than now characterizes our commitments.
(This information was excerpted from the Chao Center for Asian Studies website http://chaocenter.rice.edu/about-the-center.aspx on December 1, 2010.)
The Leonidas traveled regularly between Charleston, South Carolina, and Boston, under command of Capt. George Bugnon.
The Rice Honor System was created by Rice Institute students in 1916. It is comprised of current Rice undergraduate and graduate students. The Council reviews cases and decides appropriate penalties. "The purpose of the Honor System is to allow maximum freedom for students, undergraduate and graduate, in the completion of all academic work and to ensure the integrity of the work. When students accept this freedom and trust, they are placed on their honor by the group neither to cheat on any assignment nor to violate the trust placed in them in any way. Students demonstrate their responsibilities to their fellow students under the Honor System when they can pledge, in good conscience, that their work is their own and that they have neither witnessed nor suspect violations by others." (Article 1 Section 1 of Honor Council constitution, http://honor.blogs.rice.edu/files/2011/03/Constitution-2011.pdf). For more information, see http://honor.rice.edu/.
Frank Lee Berry, Jr., son of Frank Lee Berry and Louie Todd Berry, was born in Houston's South End on June 15, 1921. He graduated from San Jacinto High School in 1939 and the University of Houston in 1943. His military service included serving in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in Germany during 1945-46. He was an interior designer for more than 50 years, serving both AID and ASID at local, state, and national levels and was elected a fellow in the American Institute of Interior Designers in 1972. Berry died April 15, 2004 in Houston and is buried at Brookside Memorial Park.
Berry was a third generation Houstonian and his parents, Frank Lee Berry and Louie Todd Berry, were prominent early Houstonians. Berry's grandfather, James Berry, moved to Texas from Kentucky in 1836 to fight in the Battle of San Jacinto as a First Lieutenant in the Republic of Texas' army. In 1840 James Berry moved to northern Harris County near Greens Bayou. He served as Justice of the Peace (1840-53) and Treasurer of Harris County from 1854 to 1857, Civilian Director for Harris County during the Civil War (1861-65), and as a county school commissioner until his death in 1876. Both Berry Road and Berry Elementary School were named in his honor. Berry Cemetery, on the site of the original Berry family home, has been incorporated into the current Brookside Memorial Park.
The organization whose sponsorship led to the formation of this collection is Houston ARCH, Houston Area Rainbow Collective History, a seven-member consortium formed to preserve the LGBT past and to improve intellectual access to materials collected by the constituent member organizations and institutions.
The items in this collection are the result of a particular community research project, the work of Rice University students earning credit for the course SWGS 201, "Introduction to Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Studies." Students taking the course from 2007 through 2015 were required to select interviewees from a list of hundreds of Houstonians who have made contributions to the LGBT community and volunteered to be interviewed. Each group of students spent a month researching their chosen individuals. When background reports were completed, they conducted interviews with these subjects and subsequently prepared written transcripts of the interviews.
The 1992 Republican national convention was held at the Astrodome in Houston, Aug. 17-20, culminating in the nomination of hometown favorite George H.W. Bush for president and Dan Quayle for vice-president. It featured Ronald Reagan's last major public address, a fiery oration by Pat Buchanan, and an address by HIV activist Mary Fischer. Numerous local volunteers were instrumental before, during, and after the convention to be sure the events proceeded smoothly and that the delegates' needs were met.
The Fondren Library was originally built in 1949, designed by Staub & Rather, with William Ward Watkin as consulting architect. In 1968, an addition known as the Graduate Research Addition was built, designed by Staub, Rather & Howze. The Fondren Library Planning Committee's work during 1993-1999 began the process of the internal redesign which took place in 2006, in partnership with the firm of Shepley Bulfinch, and opened a new West entrance to the building, among other changes.
David F. Chapman was born in Pennsylvania, and raised in California. He attended and graduated from Rice University with a degree in architecture in 1953. Mr. Chapman married in 1951 and began working in his father-in-laws construction company Farnsworth & Chambers. Quickly moving up the company, Mr. Chapman went through several joint ventures and name changes to support those expansions. The company grew into the largest construction company in the Houston area and competed and won several jobs including buildings in both the medical center and the Nasa complex.
The schooner Don Nicholas was engaged in trade between Europe and the Americas. This portion of the ships log, Schooner Don Nicholas, from Calais for Baltimore, Rowland York, Master, begins in mid-sea and contains day-to-day reports of the ship's position, weather, and events on board.
Although the anthropology department was established at Rice University in 1961, its revitalization and redirection began in 1980. Because of its focus on high-quality, specialized, and creative work within the discipline during this decade, the anthropology department became well-known for both its identity and reputation. Such distinction became evident at the American Anthropological Association meeting in 1984, at which knowledge of Rice's accomplishments were widespread, and in the spring of 1986 when publishers bid vigorously for two volumes produced by Rice's anthropology department. At this time the anthropology department was on par with the small but specialized departments at Duke, Princeton, John Hopkins and Virginia, and the department's candidates were actively pursued by the large graduate departments of Harvard, Michigan, Chicago, and Stanford.
Traditionally the anthropology department was organized around a cultural anthropology core with archaeology and biological anthropology as additional tracks that supported the core. Since then, the social-cultural anthropology program has expanded and focuses on the application of anthropological methods and styles of research to the study of complex societies. Archaeology has become its own prominent track with emphases on the emergence of complex societies and urbanism, settlement studies, origins of food production, the Late Stone Age and Iron Age in Africa, and historical archaeology. Today the department of anthropology's doctoral program offers advanced training in these fields. In addition, students interested in medical anthropology have access to resources of the Texas Medical Center. The national prestige of the anthropology department at Rice continues to flourish.
Dr. Ronald F. Stebbings received his Ph.D. in atomic physics from University College London, in 1956. After receiving his degree, he worked at the Atomic Physics Laboratory in San Diego, California from 1958 to 1965. He returned to University College London in 1965, serving as a reader in physics there until 1968.
In the Fall of 1968, Dr. Stebbings joined the Rice University faculty as a professor, and later chairman, of the university's Space Physics and Astronomy department. From 1977 until 1982, Dr. Stebbings served as the Master of the Mary Gibbs Jones College, living in the residential college's master's home on campus with his wife and children during that period.
In 1983, Dr. Stebbings became the dean of undergraduate affairs, and on July 1, 1984 he was appointed Rice University's first Vice President for Student Affairs, by then president Norman Hackerman, joining three other administrators as the senior-most officials under the president. This change in title also involved a broadening of his responsibilities, as he became responsible for supervising the admissions, registrar's placement, and financial aid offices. This shift in responsibilities was done as an attempt to streamline the university's administration.
Dr. Stebbings served as Vice President for Student Affairs for ten years, before stepping down in 1993. After stepping down, he continued to work in Rice's Space Physics and Astronomy Department.
(Excerpted from Sallyport, April/May 1993, Feb/March 1984).
Franz R. Brotzen was born in Berlin July 4, 1915. When the collapse of a paper mill in the Great Depression had a severe financial effect on his family, Brotzen left the mechanical engineering studies he had begun, in order to accept a position in the South American division of the German chemical company I. G. Farben. His work was to travel throughout Brazil, selling medications for both people and livestock.
When World War II broke out, a British blockade of German vessels cut off the supply of pharmaceuticals he was selling, and Brotzen moved to a job with a foundry equipment importer in Rio de Janeiro. Reading a metallurgy book to learn more about his new employer's business stimulated recall of interest in the engineering studies he had begun. When his sister, who had emigrated to Cincinnati, suggested that he continue his education in the United States, he followed up on this idea and arrived with a German passport in Ohio December 1, 1941. He enrolled at Case Institute for Applied Science (now Case Western Reserve University), but in December 1942 he was drafted by the U.S. Army. When his familiarity with multiple languages was recognized, he was sent to the Military Intelligence Training Center in Maryland, and, by this time a U.S. citizen, he completed courses in interrogating prisoners of war and also an officer candidates' school. He then worked as an instructor at the MITC until spring 1945.
For the following year Brotzen was on assignment in Frankfurt, where he and Army colleagues had been sent to take advantage of an offer made by Nazi leaders hoping to "buy" clemency, to share their intelligence on the Soviets. During this year, Brotzen met Frances Burke Ridgway, who was serving on the staff of the Anglo-American Committee of Inquiry on Palestine. Hers was a four-month assignment in Europe and the Middle East.
By January 1950 both Franz and Frances were back in Washington, D.C., and were married. The following year they moved to Cleveland so Franz could resume his engineering studies. Without further interruption, he completed the M.S. and Ph.D degrees, awarded by Case in 1954.
Rice University owes Brotzen's joining its faculty to a close friendship between his dean at Case and William Houston, then president of Rice. A letter of introduction from Brotzen to Houston prompted Houston to offer him the position of starting the materials science program at Rice. He continued teaching in this department for fifty-five years, finishing his final course in 2009.
Franz Brotzen influenced the development of Rice University in many ways. His first contribution was to add a discipline to the curriculum. Having been promoted to Professor of Mechanical Engineering in 1959 and been a Guggenheim Fellow at the Second Institute for Applied and Theoretical Physics in Stuttgart in 1960-61, in 1962 he was appointed Dean of Engineering at Rice. President Pitzer, whose term began in 1961, charged him with developing and expanding the engineering program. To do this Brotzen brought new faculty to the university and sought particularly federal funding to make Rice more research conscious. He also helped raise money to build the Ryon Laboratory as well as the first space science building in the country.
While Brotzen worked effectively as an administrator, students found him outstanding also as a teacher. The way this is demonstrated at Rice is through the Brown Teaching Awards, the recipients of which are determined by student vote. Brotzen won the George R. Brown Award for Superior Teaching in 1967, 1971, 1972, and 1973. In addition, in 1975 he won a Piper Award, which recognized him as outstanding among teachers at all Texas colleges and universities.
Brotzen's contributions to student life were not limited to the classroom. After filling in as a college master for one year while the actual master was on leave, Franz and Frances accepted a mastership of their own at Brown College from 1977 to 1982.
His leadership of the faculty at large is represented by a number of terms on Faculty Council and by his serving as chairman of the Faculty Committee on Educational Enhancement appointed by President Hackerman in 1977.
A distinctive feature of Brotzen's involvement with students is the way he represented his lifelong commitment to promoting international understanding. In addition to hosting events in their home for foreign students, Franz and Frances established an annual $2,500 summer foreign travel prize open to all Rice undergraduates.
Franz Brotzen devoted his entire academic career to the community of Rice University, but because of his background, travels, experience, interests, and accomplishments, he is most accurately thought of as a citizen of the world.
The USS John Adams was built in 1799. She served in the Barbary Wars, the War of 1812, the Mexican-American War, and the Civil War. The U.S. Navy sold it in 1867. At the time of these letters the ship was commanded by Commander Levin M. Powell and attached to U.S. Naval Forces, Coast of Brazil, under Commodore George W. Storer.
The Letters contained within this collection are between Powell and Storer, and they discuss Powell's orders, including an order to suppress the slave trade to Brazil, as well as the ships condition, supply levels, and observations about the locales visited.
The Staff Advisory Committee at Rice University was set up in 1992 by Caroline Garcia, Director of Human Resources, as a way to increase communication between the staff and the administration.
As of 2011, fifteen full-time university staff members are appointed to serve on the Staff Advisory Committee (SAC) of Rice University to fulfill its primary mission: making work at Rice more enjoyable and productive. Composed of four subcommittees, SAC aims to provide personal growth and development, not to mention a little camaraderie, through monthly lunchtime programs known as Brown Bag and Lunch Bunch, the annual RiceFest benefits event, and the summertime Ice Cream Social. All Rice staff members are welcome to join any of the SAC's four subcommittees.
Subcommittees include: Communications, Employee Activities, Staff Development, and Rice Fest.
SAC's mission is to facilitate open lines of communication between the university's administration and staff by:
* Providing a forum for hearing and reviewing staff concerns and interests, and bringing applicable issues to the attention of the administration * Proposing ways to improve university staff relations, including ideas that originate from within the staff * Recommending staff appointees to the President and/or the Associate Vice President for Human Resources to serve on university committees * Acting, in general, to help make Rice University's education community an efficient, fulfilling, and supportive environment for employment * Supporting the university's formal mission statement as defined by the Board of Trustees
Excerpted from http://sac.rice.edu/ on March 11, 2011.
William Cannady is a teacher and practicing architect. As a Professor of Architecture at Rice University since 1964, he teaches both undergraduate and graduate design studios. The undergraduate studio is focused on sustainable design principles applied to real-world projects such as urban mixed-use housing complexes. The graduate Urban Design and Investment Building Design Studio investigates real estate investment projects such as mid-rise, high density, mixed use, mid-town transit oriented developments. This studio provides opportunity for cross discipline collaboration through the use of a wide array of consultants and experts from outside the university and team work with MBA students from Rice's Jones School of Management. Professor Cannady has served as a visiting lecturer and critic at the following institutions: American Academy in Rome; Architectural Association of London; Hydra II Conference, Hydra, Greece; University College London; University of California at Berkeley; University of Kentucky; University of Tennessee; Utah State University; University of Michigan; Texas A & M University; The University of Houston; Texas Tech University; University of Texas at Arlington; Prairie View University; Harvard University; University of Texas at Austin and Iowa State University. In his architectural practice, Cannady has designed and built over two hundred projects, which have been honored with fifty awards, both nationally and locally, for outstanding design. His teaching pedagogy and built work is rooted in the philosophy "the poetry of pragmatism." This approach aspires to preserve tradition while pioneering change. His academic and professional experience covers a wide range of design problems and building types including residential, commercial, institutional and public. His constructed buildings are intended to be easy to build, use, maintain and enjoy. Current projects in Cannady's private practice include a large house on Buffalo Bayou in Houston's River Oaks subdivision; a no-rent, low income, multi-family housing project for the Texas Medical Center; and a major renovation of the Cohen House, the Faculty Club of Rice University.
William Marsh Rice was born in Springfield, Massachusetts on March 14, 1816. He was the third of ten children born to David and Patty Hall Rice. Little is known about Rice's childhood but records indicate that he worked for a while as a shopkeeper in Springfield before deciding to move to Texas in 1838.
Rice started out in business as a merchant in Houston, Texas. His first business partnership with a Barnabas Haskill was formed in 1840 but dissolved by 1842. In 1844 Rice became a commission and forwarding merchant in partnership with Ebenezer B. Nichols, a Houston businessman. By 1850 Rice's siblings began to follow him to Houston and assisted in his ventures. On June 29, 1850 Rice married Margaret Bremond whose father Paul was one of Rice's many business partners. In the census of 1860, Rice is listed as having $750,000 in real and personal property, making him one of the wealthiest men in Texas at the time.
At least 15 enslaved people were included as Rice's property in 1860. According to county deed records and newspaper advertisements, Rice purchased, sold, and accepted mortgages on enslaved people; he also attempted to recapture enslaved people who fled him. In addition to extending credit to slaveowners who leveraged enslaved people as collateral, Rice also bought and sold cotton as a substantial portion of his antebellum business. Rice served on a secession committee in Houston after the 1860 presidential election, and during the Civil War, Rice and his wife Margaret raised money for Confederate soldiers. On August 13, 1863, Margaret Rice died, possibly from cholera or yellow fever. Shortly after his wife's death, Rice went to Monterrey, Mexico and stayed there until August of 1865 when he returned to Houston. In Monterrey, Rice smuggled cotton and manufactured goods across the Texas-Mexico border. Later in the summer of 1865, he went to Massachusetts for business and did not return to Houston until 1866. On June 26, 1867 Rice married for a second time. His second wife was Julia Elizabeth Baldwin Brown, a widow and a daughter of Horace Baldwin, one of the early mayors of Houston. Elizabeth's sister Charlotte was the wife of William's younger brother Frederick.
Rice and his second wife moved to New Jersey to live with Rice's sister Charlotte and her family. Rice and his wife divided their time between New York City and New Jersey with occasional trips to Houston to oversee business. During one of the Rices' visits to Houston, he was approached by Cesar Maurice Lombardi, who was interested in building a high school in Houston. Rice had been interested in endowing an educational institute of some kind, having revised his will twice previously to include a school for needy boys, first in New Jersey, then in New York City. After the meeting with Lombardi, Rice decided to fund an institute of higher learning in Houston. On May 19, 1891 the charter for the William M. Rice Institute for the Advancement of Literature, Science and Art was incorporated in Austin, Texas. Captain James Addison Baker, William's brother Frederic, Houston businessmen Emanuel Raphael, Cesar Lombardi, James E. McAshan and Alfred S. Richardson were named as the first board of trustees.
In article two of the charter: "(t)he objects, intents, and purposes of this Institution are declared to be the establishment and maintenance, in the City of Houston, Texas, of a Public Library, and the maintenance of an Institution for the Advancement of Literature, Science, Art, Philosophy and Letters; the establishment and maintenance of a Polytechnic school; for procuring and maintaining scientific collections; collections of chemical and philosophical apparatus, mechanical and artistic models, drawings, pictures and statues; and for cultivating other means of instruction..." The charter also required that the Institute only accept white students, which was changed in 1965. The institute was initially endowed with a promissory note for $200,000 to be paid upon Rice's death. Rice revised his will on September 26, 1896 and left the bulk of his estate to his namesake institute. During the battle over the estate two lawyers became involved with the proceedings and would end up greatly influencing the final results. Captain Baker, a trustee of the Rice Institute, served as William Rice's lawyer. Albert Patrick, the other lawyer, was hired by Orren Holt in 1898 to investigate the residency question in New York City. There Patrick met Charlie Jones, Rice's valet. The two spent a great deal of time together and slowly a plan was formed. At first it seemed that Patrick was only interested in the settlement of the contested will and was looking for any way to win. He convinced Jones, in the spring of 1900, to start poisoning Rice with mercury pills as a way to avoid a court battle. By the summer of 1900 Patrick came up with the idea to forge a will that left the majority of Rice's estate to himself and small sums to relatives and friends. The forged will was dated June 30, 1900.
On September 8, 1900 a hurricane struck the Gulf Coast and one of Rice's businesses, the Merchants and Planters Oil Company, suffered severe damage. The business manager telegraphed that they needed money for repairs and the sum was most of what Rice had available in his bank account. Patrick was worried at the loss of such a large sum of ready cash and he convinced Jones to use chloroform to kill Rice. On September 23, 1900 Rice was murdered by Jones. Patrick, in his haste to get hold of Rice's cash, tried to withdraw money from Rice's bank using a check forged by Jones right after Rice's death. The bank refused to honor the check since Patrick's name was spelled incorrectly. When calling to verify the check with Rice, the bank learned that he was dead. Since the circumstances were suspicious, the bank contacted Rice's Houston lawyer, Captain Baker.
When Baker arrived in New York City, he learned there had been a new will written up by Patrick. Baker was suspicious of the will since Rice had never notified him of any changes to the one Baker had drawn up on September 26, 1896. This suspicion led to a long and sensational trial where Patrick's version of the will was exposed as a forgery and the scheme to kill Rice was discovered. Patrick was found guilty of murder and forgery on March 26, 1902 and was sentenced to die in the electric chair. Jones, who confessed to his part of the events, ended up being released despite being the one who had actually committed the murder. Patrick's sentence was commuted to life imprisonment by the governor of New York, but eventually won a full pardon in 1912.
On February 6, 1902 Orren Holt settled the suit over Elizabeth's will for $200,000. After the trials and settlement, Captain Baker and the original Board of Trustees set about fulfilling Rice's dream to have an institute for higher learning in Houston, Texas. To guide them, the trustees chose an first president, a young mathematician and astronomer at Princeton University named Edgar Odell Lovett, who signed on as president in 1908. Lovett had earned doctorates both from the Universities of Virginia and Leipzig and had taught at Johns Hopkins, the University of Chicago, and Princeton, the most innovative American universities of the time. The trustees sent him on a worldwide tour of the "competition," where he interviewed faculty, inspected facilities, and developed an inspired vision of what might be accomplished on the plains of Texas with a blank-check charter, a generous endowment, and high ambitions. The goal was a university "of the highest grade" that kept "the standards up and the numbers down." Lovett shaped the university that Rice would become.
The Rice Institute opened on September 23, 1912, the anniversary of Mr. Rice's murder, with 77 students and a dozen faculty. An international academic festival celebrated the opening three weeks later, a spectacular event that brought Rice to the attention of the entire scholarly world. Four years later, at the initial commencement, 35 bachelor degrees and one master's degree were awarded, with the first doctorate conferred in 1918.
The programs trace the history of Rice University football from its inception until the present.
Percy Arthur was Captain of the 1934 Rice Institute football team and participated in the Rice Owls first Southwestern Conference championship in 1934. Previously Arthur had been captain of the 1929 Reagan High School football team. Following graduation from Rice, he attended Columbia University, receiving a master's degree in education and in 1936 returned to Rice as assistant football coach. Later he became South Texas Agency manager for the Southland Life Insurance Company. He married Ivy Arthur Bale in 1940.
Allen "Red" Bale was Percy Arthur's football teammate and college roommate. He coached at Rice University and became an athletic director there. He married Ivy Arthur Bale, Percy Arthur's widow, in 2000.
Records of the activities of Rice University students have been captured in scrapbooks by alumni since the opening of the Institute in 1912. The scrapbooks in the collection contain ephemera reflecting the stimulating life on campus, including photographs, correspondence, invitations, newsclippings, tickets, etc, related to academic, social, sports, and arts events and organizations. The materials in these scrapbooks help document the change in the community as Rice grew from the Institute out on the prairie to a world class university surrounded by a major metropolitan area. The collection also includes scrapbooks of the Treasurer's Office beginning in 1907 as the Institute was being planned and scrapbooks from various other Rice departments and Rice-related events.
James R. Sims helped change the face of Rice in the '60s and '70s by leading a $35 million campus renovation project while simultaneously chairing the then-Civil Engineering Department. A 1941 graduate of Rice Institute with a degree in civil engineering, Sims worked briefly as a structural engineer before returning to the university as an instructor in 1942. He earned a master's degree and doctorate in engineering at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign in 1950 and 1956, respectively. The pinnacle in Sims' career was serving as the national American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) president, a post he held in 1982 in which he advocated the interests of more than 72,000 civil engineers across the nation. Sims also fought tirelessly for stringent educational standards and ethical behavior in the profession and led various committees and working groups at the national, state and local levels of ASCE. The Texas Society of Professional Engineers named Sims Engineer of the Year in 1976 and the Engineers' Council of Houston gave him its Award of Honor in 1977. He was named Rice Engineering Alumni Outstanding Engineering Alumnus in 1983. The James Redding Sims Scholarship in Civil Engineering, administered by the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, is an endowed scholarship at Rice. James Redding Sims was the Herman and George R. Brown Professor Emeritus of Civil and Environmental Engineering and former vice president of business affairs, when he died in 2009 at the age of 91.
The materials that constitute the Tragsdorf Panama Canal Zone Photograph Collection were created and/or gathered by William E. Tragsdorf, a native of Neillsville, Wisconsin, who lived from January 11, 1882 to February 14, 1948. The eldest of seven children and son of a successful merchant in Neillsville, he first after high school worked in his father's store. In 1903 at the age of 21, he enrolled in the Minneapolis Business College, completing the course in nine months and in 1904 writing a civil service exam for stenographic work. In August of 1905, he became one of the early civil service employees to be stationed at the Isthmus of Panama.
It had been only one year earlier that the United States, after supporting Panamanians in their successful battle for independence from Columbia, agreed to pay the new country $10 million per year in order to continue the work begun by the French for building a canal at the isthmus. Also in 1904 the U.S. paid the French $40 million for their equipment and excavations.
American engineers and the workers they supervised needed ten years to complete the canal, which was by far the largest American engineering project of that or any previous era. William Tragsdorf remained in the Canal Zone for the duration of the building and until 1918, when he returned to Neillsville. Over the years he advanced through several positions, finishing as a baggage agent with the Panama Railroad Company. He remained in the States during the 20's, owning a theater in Neillsville, which he sold, and working for the DuPont Company. In January 1932, he was back in the Canal Zone, employed by the railroad as a clerk in the records bureau. Once again he advanced through several positions, transferring to the office engineering division as a clerk in 1935, being named principal clerk in 1941, and retiring from that position in 1944. After a stay of several months in Neillsville, he settled in Cocoli in the Canal Zone where he died in 1948.
Excerpted partially from "Good Old Days" column in Clark County Press, Neillsville, WI, Feb. 19, 2003, pg. 23, http://wvls.lib.wi.us/ClarkCounty/clark/news/OldDays/2003_2_19.htm, accessed May 7, 2012.
Rice University opened as the William Marsh Rice Institute in 1912 on a 300-acre campus in Houston, Texas. At the beginning there were the administration building a residence hall, an academic building, and the mechanical lab and power plant, as well as an elaborate plan for additional buildings, all by the renowned Boston architectural firm of Cram, Goodhue, and Ferguson. Major growth took place after World War II, and in 1960 the name change from Institute to University acknowledged a broadened curriculum. As far as construction of new buildings is concerned, there have been several periods of growth: the late 40's, the late 50's, the 60's, the early 80's, the 90's and the first decade of the twenty-first century.
Postcards in the collection document two events of national historic significance that took place at Rice: President John F. Kennedy's 1961 speech calling for a manned landing on the moon, and the 1990 gathering of eight international heads of state for the Economic Summit.
Based on John B. Boles, "Rice University, Handbook of Texas Online (http://www. tsha online.org/handbook/articles/kbr05), accessed May 13, 2012. Published by the Texas State Historical Association.
The Gilbert and Sullivan Society was an amatuer theater company composed of Rice University faculty, staff and their spouses. The group organized an annual, free performance of a Gilbert and Sullivan operetta each spring between 1951 and 1967. Plays were funded by faculty and supporter donations, and featured two performances per year; one for students and the other for faculty. The primary goal of the group, in addition to the production of the operettas, was to foster community and relationships between faculty members.
Anderson Todd was born October 22, 1921. A formative experience in his youth was that at the age of 13, he spent four months sailing and learning navigation on the battleship USS Idaho, which was commanded by his father, Rear Admiral Forde Anderson Todd. From 1939 to 1943 he earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in Architecture at Princeton University. He then served in World War II, commanding convoys in the South Atlantic. After the war he returned to Princeton, where he remained until 1949, earning a Master of Fine Arts degree in Architecture and serving as a Fellow.
In 1949 Todd was recruited by William Ward Watkin, the first professor of architecture at Rice University (then the Rice Institute) to assume a teaching position at Rice. He devoted his entire teaching career to this institution, advancing from instructor to assistant professor in 1952, to associate professor in 1956, and to full professor in 1966. In 1969 he took over the duties of Architecture School Director from William W. Caudill, who had headed the school since 1961. In 1978 he was appointed to the endowed chair the Gus Sessions Wortham Professorship in Architecture. Todd's effectiveness as a teacher was recognized by his being among winners of the university-wide George R. Brown Award for Excellence in Teaching (1968).
Among Todd's accomplishments as an administrator of the school was development of the preceptorship program to be a student's year away from campus working in an established, selective architectural firm. He also started Rice's Qualifying Graduate Workshop, a program that enables students with no undergraduate training in architecture to learn the essential skills quickly and then enter the graduate program, eventually receiving a Master of Architecture degree.
Todd's personal accomplishments as an architect include serving as architectural design consultant for the Ford Foundation's Chilean Communities Facilities Program (1963-64); being a planning consultant for Duke University and Southern Colorado State College (1963-65); working as a partner in Todd Tackett Lacy, Architects and Planning Consultants (1964-69);having his own firm, Anderson Todd, FAIA (1969-72); and being a partner in the office of Anderson Todd, FAIA, and William T. Cannady, AIA. He was elected to Fellowship in the American Institute of Architecture in 1972. His award-winning projects include, in 1966, for the design of his personal residence, an Honor Award from the Houston Chapter of the American Institute of Architects; two Honor Awards from the Houston Chapter of the American Institute of Architects in 1968, one for the design of Houston Fire Station 59, and the other for the Geophysical Laboratory of Superior Oil Company; from the Texas Society of Architects in 1975, the Honor Award for design of the Brochstein House (with Raymond Brochstein and William T. Cannady); and in 1976 from the Texas Society of Architects the Award of Merit for design of the Children's Mental Health Services of Houston (with William T. Cannady). The Superior Oil Company Geophysical Laboratory was also selected as one of fifteen nationwide winners of the "Architectural Award of Excellence for 1968" by the American Institute of Steel Construction.
A significant contribution made by Todd to the civic life of Houston came about when he was a member of the Board of Trustees of the Museum of Fine Arts. He had long admired the style and design principles of Ludwig Mies van der Rohe (1886-1969), and he was instrumental in bringing Mies to Houston to design the 1958 addition to the museum. Todd said, "He was like any other good architect when I recommended him. The museum collection at that time was of high quality but low quantity. We had to rely on visiting exhibitions, so we needed a very flexible space within the rigid structure of the museum. Mies had a free way of handling space, and I found it sympatico."
On October 22, 2011, Todd turned 90. The evening before, a grand dinner was held at Rice University in celebration and honor of his life and work. He died peacefully at home on December 21, 2018.
The Thomas E. Bartmess Air Medal was presented posthumously to his widow, Eleanor Bartmess (who became Eleanor Riordan in May 1948). The medal was one of four presented to wartime aviators' family members at a November 3, 1943, ceremony at Ellington Field. The four men were at the time listed as casualties of World War II aerial combat. Lt. Bartmess had been killed; the other three were prisoners of war.
Thomas Bartmess was a Houston native and a graduate of San Jacinto High School and Rice Institute. He was a member of the class of 1940 and graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree. He was navigator on the Liberator "Little Beaver" from October 1942 until the time of his death. He was first reported missing after the Allied raid on Kiel and other Belgian cities but was later reported as having been killed in action.
-source: "Women Given Awards for Men Listed as Casualties" by Flora Gordon Shoss, The Houston Post, Nov. 7, 1943.
Samuel A. Burton was a property owner and enslaver in Houston County, Texas, the first county established by the Republic of Texas. The document authorizing public sale of his property was filed on April 14, 1849, in the county courthouse in the town of Crockett (the county seat).
Charles William Duncan, Jr. was born September 9, 1926, in Houston, Texas. He attended Rice Institute, where he majored in chemical engineering, served as an aviation cadet of the U. S. Army Air Force during 1944-46, and graduated with his B.S. degree in 1947. Following a stint as a roustabout and chemical engineer for Humble Oil and Refining Company (now Exxon); he joined his family's coffee importing and roasting firm, Duncan Foods Company, which produced Maryland Club Coffee. He married Anne Smith in 1957 and they have two children. Duncan Foods merged with Coca-Cola in 1964 and he worked as head of their European operations. He was elected president of the company in 1971. President Jimmy Carter, whom Mr. Duncan had gotten to know in Atlanta, brought him to the national capital to serve as Deputy Secretary of the U. S. Department of Defense from January 1977 to August 1979, at which point Mr. Duncan joined the president's cabinet as Secretary of the Department of Energy from August 1979 to January 1981, when President Carter left office.
After his government appointment ended, Duncan returned to Houston and established Gulf Partners (now Duncan Interests), an investment firm. Charles Duncan served many years as a Rice University trustee, including chairing the Rice Board of Trustees from 1982 to 1996, when he became chairman emeritus. Rice University's 11th residential college was named in honor of Charles and Anne Duncan as is Duncan Hall. He continues to participate in professional activities in Duncan Interests and philanthropic activities.
Roy M. Huffington was born in Tomball, Texas on Oct 4, 1917. The son of an oil man, he earned his bachelors in geology from Southern Methodist University in 1938, and earned a Ph.D. in geology from Harvard in 1942. After serving aboard the USS Hornet as a lieutenant during World War II, he left the Navy and went to work for Humble Oil. In 1956, Huffington left Humble to start his own business with the money he had saved over the previous decade, Roy M. Huffington, Inc. or as it was also known, "Huffco". The company made a number of successful ventures around the world, most notably the discovery of vast reserves of natural gas in Indonesia in 1972. In 1989, Huffington sold his oil company, and in 1990 President Bush appointed him to Ambassador to Austria. Among his many other commitments he also served as chairman of the Asia Society and the Salzburg Seminar. Huffington passed away in 2008 at the age of 90.
Orlando L. Poole's mother was living in Richland Hill, Louisiana, in 1839 when she wrote to her son, who had traveled to an area about 19 miles west of Texarcana, Texas, where he had a land grant. Orlando became substantially involved in settling the town of Boston, Texas, which became the county seat of Bowie County when the county was organized in 1841. Government records show him as being appointed postmaster of Boston May 13, 1852. In his letter of 1854 to a sister-in-law, Mrs. Nancy Parting in Holly Retreat, Mississippi, Poole reports that he was then clerk of the district court of the county and a member of the Missionary Baptist Church. He added that the next year he expected to go into the merchandise business "with many friends at my side" with "fair prospects for bettering my condition, which by the by is not a very despicable one." Poole's letter shows that his father had written a will establishing quite specifically how his assets were to be distributed, and Orlando was well acquainted with the law as to how the share of an estate coming to a minor needed to be handled. Both Poole's letter and that of his mother reflect the difficulty of maintaining good health in the living situations of these people. They also reflect the support provided to their lives by religious faith.
Gertrude Barnstone was born in Houston, Texas on September 5, 1925. She received a Bachelor of Arts in English from Rice University in 1945 and also studied art at the Houston Museum of Fine Arts and Stanford University Art Department. In 1953, Gertrude Barnstone was comissioned to create a sculpture of two large, curved aluminum pieces for the exterior of the U.S. Green Stamp building in Houston. She continued to contribute artwork to local exhibitions as well as create sculptures for private residences, working largely with steel, but also with wire, glass, mirrors, fabric, and other materials.
In the 1960s and 1970s Gertrude Barnstone took an active role in politics and social activism, championing women's rights and civil rights. She was elected to the Houston Independent School District School Board in 1964 and served a five-year term while achieving significant changes regarding desegregation and federal aid.
In 1969 Gertrude Barnstone divorced from her husband of thirteen years, Howard Barnstone, a prominent architect and co-designer of the Rothko Chapel. She began studying welding at Houston Community College in 1969 and worked at a factory making plexiglass skylights in help support her three children, a job that also provided the inspiration to incorporate glass into her colorful and intricate metal sculptures. From 1970-1973 Gertrude Barnstone was producer of the KPRC-TV educational children's program "Sundown's Treehouse" and from 1972-1973 served as Director of Development for the Institute for Storm Research, focusing on minority needs and representation in both positions. Although her 1972 campaign for a seat in the State Senate, District 15 was unsuccessful, she remained dedicated to building a stronger community, serving as President and treasurer for the Texas ACLU Foundation, President of the National Coalition of Women's Art Organization, 1981-1982, and president of the Houston Women's Caucus for Art, 1980. In the early 1990s she founded Artist Rescue Mission, an organization that provided aid to the people in war-torn Sarajevo. In 1995, Barnstone received the Lifetime Achievement in Civil Liberties award from the Greater Houston chapter of the ACLU.
Gertrude Barnstone continues to create distinct glass and steel sculptures ranging from floor lamps, to tables, to abstract outdoor scultpures for both private and public spaces.
Rene Boylesve was the pseudonym of Rene-marie-auguste Tardiveau, a French novelist noted for his social histories set in the Touraine region of west-central France. He was elected to the French Academy in 1918.
The Braes Republican Women's Club traces its founding to a decision by two women following an election in 1960. After the Republican convention of Harris County Precinct 175 in that year, Peggy Brelsford and Vandalia Van Osdall decided to form an organization for the purpose of motivating and informing fellow residents in their newly developing neighborhood on how to participate in local, state, and national political affairs. Efforts of the increasing membership brought about noticeable results as early as 1967, when Glenn Purcell, husband of one of the members and a past president, was elected to the State Legislature, the first Republican elected to that body in over one hundred years.
Another early electoral success was one of the Club's members, Kay Bailey—subsequently U.S. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison. She also initially was voted into the State Legislature. At the time of the Club's thirty-fifth anniversary in 1995, Senator Hutchison sent congratulations to the members and wrote, "I was honored to be a member of the Club while I was in Houston, and your support started my political career."
The Club continued to grow, and in addition to carrying out specific tasks to get Republican candidates elected, the members raised money through garage sales, took one- and two-day trips to places like the South Texas Nuclear Facility, and the Port of Houston and Seamen's Center, and held an annual Christmas party. The funds raised by the Club were donated to candidates' campaigns and to civic causes like restoration of the dome of the Harris County courthouse.
As the Club became affiliated with state and national organizations of Republican women, some of its members held positions outside the local group. In 1987 the Braes Republican Women were presented with the Gold Achievement Award of the National Federation of Republican Women at the 24th Biennial Convention in Orlando, Florida. The Club kept members up to date on meeting times, locations, and business through a Newsletter published generally September through May. Under its title the Newsletter has carried the statement "Proud of being the oldest active Republican Women's Club in the Greater Houston area."
At the time of the thirty-fifth anniversary in 1995, the Club numbered almost fifty members. Five years later the fortieth anniversary was celebrated on April 18 with a luncheon at the Renaissance Hotel, at which U.S. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison was the guest speaker. Gradually as a result of relocations and deaths, the size of the Club began to decline. The 2010 roster numbered twenty-six. On April 16 of that year, the Golden Anniversary was celebrated with a luncheon at Bayou Manor, an area residence for seniors, which had become the home of at least one of the members.
Evidence of the Club's ongoing effectiveness in supporting Republican candidates is in the November 2010 Newsletter. It includes a thank you message from newly elected State Representative Sarah Davis, a Republican who had won the seat from a strong Democratic incumbent.
Chronologically the latest document in this collection is the November 2011 Newsletter, which announces the meeting to take place on November 18 at the by then usual meeting place, the Outback Steakhouse across from Meyerland Plaza. The program was to be opportunity to hear from candidates in the upcoming election who would be present. The Newsletter also reminded members to vote for Republican Jack Christie for the Houston City Council (the Club's candidate won again). Finally, this Newsletter includes a full slate of six Club officers for 2012.
Over the life of the Club, various ethnic groups have been active members, including the Asian American community. Mrs. Edward C.M. Chen has been a very active member of club, just as Dr. Chen himself served as Harris County Republican Party Chair in 2002 and later on the board of the United Republicans of Harris County.
Edith Norse Rogers (1881-1960), Republican representative for the Fifth District in Massachusetts, was the sixth woman to be elected to Congress. She succeeded her husband who had represented the same district for 12 years; she would occupy her seat for 35 years, the longest of any woman representative (June 30, 1925 – September 10, 1960). While her gender was an issue during her first run for office, it was muted by the declaration that the "office seeks the woman" (rather than vice versa). That Edith Nourse Rogers and her husband had been firm supporters of suffrage remained unpublicized. Ten years later, Rogers encourages women to address themselves as a distinct voting block to issues which affect them. Suffragists had anticipated women would have, as a substantial percentage of the electorate, a powerful affect. Excerpted from Notable American Women: The Modern Period, pgs. 587-589.
The Chinese American Citizens Alliance is an organization created in 1895 in San Francisco, California by a group of Chinese Americans who wished to celebrate their heritage and fight against the prejudice they were facing at the time. The Alliance's purpose was to provide support for the Chinese American community, as well as other Asian American groups, by linking the traditions and culture of their homeland with the ideals and customs of America. They also fought to represent the rights of Chinese Americans and were instrumental in improving the legal status of Chinese Americans and other Asian Americans across the country.
The Alliance's first name, "Native Sons of the Golden State," was replaced in 1915 for the "Chinese American Citizens Alliance" due to increased national interest. The San Francisco site became the Grand Lodge and acts as the governing body of the Alliance, with 18 existing Lodges across the country.
The Houston Lodge was established in 1954 with Edward K.T. Chen as the founding President. Along with providing a close relationship with the Chinese American community of Houston, the Houston Lodge has presented the Miss Chinatown Houston Scholarship Pageant every year since 1971.
In 1886, William Marsh Rice bought the old Capitol Hotel, built in 1882, for unpaid taxes. Rice University obtained the hotel as a bequest from its owner and renamed it the Rice Hotel. Jesse H. Jones purchased the building in 1911, and in 1913 tore it down and replaced it with a new Rice Hotel. The hotel closed in 1977, but the structure was later redesigned as luxury "loft" apartments and reopened in 1988.
Dr. Lynne Huffer became a member of the Rice University French Department and Director of the Program for the Study of Women and Gender in August 1998. She served in these roles until May 2005, when she left Rice to join the faculty at Emory University. Becoming active in faculty work on university governance, she was elected deputy speaker of the Faculty Senate in 2003-04 and speaker in 2004-05. Her committee work included a campaign to persuade the university administration to make benefits available to domestic partners of faculty and staff, as well as to their family members; a faculty response to a publicly quoted homophobic statement made by head football coach Ken Hatfield; a study of the Rice campus climate, particularly regarding women; serving on President Gillis's Council on the Campus Climate for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgender individuals; and participation on an ad hoc committee to bring about on-site childcare at Rice.
Roy M. Huffington, geologist, oilman, philanthropist, and U.S. ambassador, was born Oct. 4, 1917, in Tomball, Texas. His father was also an oilman but died in an accident when Roy was 16. Enrolling at Southern Methodist University, Roy earned a geology degree in three-and-a-half years and then went on to Harvard, where he graduated with a masters and a doctorate in geology. From 1942 to 1945 he served in the U.S. Navy as first ensign and then lieutenant commander. Returning to Texas after the war, he worked as a field geologist for Humble Oil (now a part of ExxonMobil) until 1956, when Huffington struck out on his own. Eventually Roy M. Huffington, Inc. was established into an oil and gas exploration company. He had saved enough money to cover expenses for three years, and for the first 18 months he did not make "a red cent," he said. Then, however, he hit oil in 17 of the first 18 wells he drilled.
Huffington's company, subsequently known as Huffco, grew to be a major independent international oil company active around the world. Observing that the geology of Indonesia seemed to resemble that of the Gulf Coast, Huffington suspected that oil or natural gas might be found there. Thus, in 1966 Huffco signed a production sharing contract with Pertamina to explore in the Kutai Basin of the Mahakam River delta in East Kalimantan, Indonesia. The initial exploration objective was oil, but in 1972 Huffco discovered a giant natural gas reserve at Badak Field. Huffco and Pertamina collaborated to build a liquefied natural gas plant in Bontang, and the first shipping took place in 1977.
Subsequently Huffco joined forces with Mobil Oil Indonesia to expand the size of the Indonesia natural gas project. After seven years of this field's operation, Indonesia became the world's largest liquid natural gas supplier. In 1989 Huffington sold his business to the Chinese Petroleum Corporation of Taiwan.
In 1990 Huffington accepted appointment by President George H. W. Bush to be ambassador to Austria. He served in that post for three years, working to improve business ties with the former Soviet bloc. After his ambassadorship, he returned to Houston and resumed his position as chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Roy M. Huffington, Inc., the independent international oil company that remained after the sale of Huffco to the Chinese.
While serving as ambassador to Austria he joined the board of the Salzburg Global Seminar, an international policy center, and in 1994, he was elected its chairman, a position which he held until 2007. Huffington also served as the chairman of the Asia Society, a New York-based charity, for seven years in the 1980s. His philanthropic activities were wide ranging, related especially to education and medicine. To cite a few examples, he founded the Huffington Foundation, a Houston-based charity, and he and his wife, the former Phyllis Gough, who died in 2003, established the Huffington Center on Aging at Baylor College of Medicine. Having been a member of the Alpha Tau Omega fraternity at Southern Methodist University, he made a significant donation to the Alpha Tau Omega Educational Foundation, which provides scholarships for undergraduate members of the fraternity.
On July 11, 2008, while vacationing in Italy, Huffington died in Venice of natural causes. He was 90.
Edmund Jack Pecht was inducted into the U.S. Army on 27 August 1942 and honorably discharged on 27 December 1945, having served in the Medical Corps both in the U.S. and Europe as a Dental Technician, Fifth Grade.
The person who primarily preserved the items in this collection is Nancy Cravens Chamberlain, born in 1932 to Mary Cullinan and James Rorick Cravens. Mary Cullinan Cravens was one of five children born to Joseph Stephen Cullinan, founder of oil companies culminating with what became Texaco, early civic leader in Houston, and resident of the Shadyside development, one of the original houses being his.
J. S. Cullinan was born on December 31, 1860 near Sharon, Pennsylvania, the oldest son and second of eight children. Beginning to work in the Pennsylvania oilfields at the age of fourteen, he learned essentially every task associated with oil production. At the age of 22 he joined Standard Oil and held several management positions before leaving in 1895, at the age of 35, to form his own company, Petroleum Iron Works, which manufactured steel storage tanks.
When oil was discovered in Corsicana, Texas, in 1894, Cullinan was sought out for advice on production and marketing techniques. In Corsicana he formed a company in his own name, which later became the Magnolia Petroleum Company. Cullinan was instrumental in introducing oil as a fuel for locomotives, the use of natural gas for heating and lighting, and using oil to settle dust on streets. In 1899 he constructed a refinery south of Corsicana, the first such facility west of the Mississippi. Also in 1899 he had an important role in persuading the Texas legislature to enact the state's first statute for petroleum conservation.
Shortly after the Spindletop discovery in 1901 Cullinan moved to Beaumont, where he founded the Texas Company (later Texaco). In 1905 he moved the Texaco headquarters to Houston. Losing his controlling interest of Texaco stock in a proxy fight with eastern investors in 1913, Cullinan resigned as president but remained active in the industry. He was instrumental in developing the Sour Lake, Humble, and East Texas oilfields.
From 1913 to 1919 Cullinan served as president of the Houston Chamber of Commerce and supported development of the Houston Ship Channel. In 1922 he was responsible for construction of the North Side Belt Railway around the city. He served as special advisor to the Food Administration under Herbert Hoover during World War I. Beneficiaries of his philanthropy were the Museum of Fine Arts, the Houston Symphony Orchestra, and the Houston Negro Hospital. He served as chairman of the Mount Rushmore National Memorial Committee from 1928 to 1933. In 1937 while visiting his friend Herbert Hoover in Palo Alto, California, Cullinan died of pneumonia on March 11.
Members of three generations are represented in this collection: Nancy's grandfather's, J. S. Cullinan's; her parents', the Cravens'; and the generation of Nancy and her siblings, Anne, James "Chico," and Patsy Cravens. Nancy was married to Charles Devere Chamberlain, Jr. from 1954 to 1974. The span of time represented in the collection is 1907 to 2003. Nancy Cravens Chamberlain died in 2010.
As the eldest surviving child of Mary and James Cravens, Nancy was the preserver of records, photographs, and memorabilia from the two preceding generations as well as her own. In addition to, effectively, being family historian, Nancy earned a bachelor's degree in 1975 and a master's in English in 1980 from the University of Houston. She became known for generous volunteer work teaching adult literacy classes for ten years. She also tutored children at Gregory Lincoln Elementary School and counseled alcoholics and drug addicts.
The Travelers in the Middle East Archive (TIMEA) is an archive of materials that reflect Western interactions with the Middle East, particularly Egypt, during the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. This collection is composed of physical items in the archive apart from illustrations and photographs in books that are referenced in the related digital project, which is online at timea.rice.edu. These physical items are a variety of formats, including travel guides, museum catalogs, travel narratives; post cards and stereographic views of monuments, street scenes, people, and events; maps; pamphlets; souvenir programs; and souvenir objects.
The collection was assembled by Dr. Paula Sanders, Professor of History at Rice University. Many of the items were acquired over the period of time she prepared to write Creating Medieval Cairo: Empire, religion, and architectural preservation in nineteenth-century Egypt (American University in Cairo Press, 2008). Her gathering of items began when she was Scholar in Residence at the American Research Center in Egypt in 1995-96.
HYMAN, HAROLD M. (Harold Melvin), (1924-). Harold Hyman, the William P. Hobby Professor Emeritus of History at Rice University, taught at Rice from 1968 through 1997, and continued to teach graduate seminars at the university for some years. He specialized in legal and constitutional history, the Civil War and Reconstruction, urban, 19th century political and entrepreneurial history. His numerous publications include Era of the Oath: Northern Loyalty Tests during the Civil War and Reconstruction, for which he received the Albert J. Beveridge Award from the American Historical Association, and Oleander Odyssey: The Kempners of Galveston, TX, 1854-1980s, which was awarded the Coral Horton Tullis Memorial Prize for the Best Book on Texas History. Dr. Hyman was elected to the Society of American Historians in 1974, and named a Fulbright 40th Anniversary Distinguished Fellow in 1986. Other awards received by Dr. Hyman include the Sidney Hillman Foundation Prize in 1960, the Freedom Foundation Award in 1983, and the Allan Nevins-Douglas Southall Freeman Award of the Civil War Round Table in 1986 for distinguished relevant scholarship.
A native of Brooklyn, NY, Dr. Hyman served in the U. S. Marine Corps during World War II, during which time he was an aerial photographer-gunner in campaigns in the South Pacific. He was married to the late Ferne Hyman for 65 years, and has three children and nine grandchildren.
The Elizabeth Baldwin Literary Society (EBLS) was founded in 1914 and named in honor of the second wife of William Marsh Rice. It was an active organization until the mid 1980s. In 1919, the literary society split to form another society, the Pallas Athene Literary Society (PALS). In 1924, an alumnae group for EBLS was formed.
Born in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, in 1931, G. King Walters moved to Houston at the age of 5, attended public schools, graduating from San Jacinto High School in 1949. Matriculating at Rice University in 1949, he majored in physics and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Xi in 1952. After graduating with honors in 1953, he went to Duke University, where he earned his doctorate in physics in 1956. He remained at Duke until 1957 as a National Science Foundation Postdoctoral Fellow. Between 1957 and 1963, when he was hired by Rice, he distinguished himself as a research scientist with Texas Instruments in Dallas. Walters remained at Rice through retirement in 1999 and beyond, advancing through the professorial ranks to chairman of the physics department, assistant dean of natural sciences, and dean of natural sciences.
Walters' areas of specialization were atomic, molecular, and condensed matter physics. In the 70's he conducted pioneering work on excimer lasers that came to be widely used to print semiconductor chips. Experiments he designed and conducted using an atomic accelerator in the now gone Bonner Nuclear Laboratory at Rice formed the basis for very sensitive devices called magnetic anomaly detectors. This technology was used by the U.S. military to detect Soviet nuclear submarines. The devices were also used in space exploration vehicles. In the 80's some of Walters' research, sponsored by the Department of Energy and the Houston-based Robert A. Welch Foundation, included studies of the physics of high-power lasers for possible application in power generation by laser fusion, and investigations of solid surfaces important in industrial catalysis. Subsequent research of his has found practical application as an improved MRI device, which can image the lungs when a patient breathes in polarized helium or xenon gas.
In 1977-78 Walters was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship, which was followed soon after by his election to Fellowship in the American Association for the Advancement of Science. In addition to authoring a wide range of publications, he has provided editorial leadership for the Journal of Geophysical Research, Case Studies in Atomic Physics, and Reviews of Modern Physics. He served as an elected member of the governing council of the American Physical Society as well as in other positions in national scientific organizations.
In addition to serving as a highly regarded teacher and directing 29 doctoral students, King Walters participated very actively in the structural operations of Rice. His committee work included the Athletic Review Committee and the Faculty Advisory Committee on Retirement. He was a member of three important search committees, for university president in 1984-85, for provost in 1993-94, and for librarian in 1995-96.
A distinctive honor Walters received at the end of his career was the establishment of a one million dollar endowed fund in his name. He directed that awards made from the fund annually are to be used for research innovation in the Rice department of physics.
The Historical Society was comprised of members of the Rice faculty, drawn primarily from the Humanities Departments. The society met monthly at the Faculty Club (also known as Cohen House), at which time one of its members would present an original paper. On occasion scholars from other institutions were invited to speak to the group. The society had its final meeting in December, 1962.
This society is not related to the Rice Historical Commission or the Rice Historical Society, both of which are organizations formed to promote the history of Rice University.
The Rice University Business and Professional Women (RUBPW) was formed in the 1980s by a group of women Rice University alumnae for the purpose of forming friendships, networking, and hearing interesting speakers on topics related to business, the Rice community, or matters of general interest to intelligent people. The group meets monthly September through May, usually beginning with dinner at a noteworthy Houston restaurant. Members emphasize that it is not necessary to be an active career woman to participate. There are members who are not currently working outside the home or who may never have done so. The essential qualifications are an interest in Rice people and availability to attend evening meetings.
The Sarah Lane Literary Society (SLLS), founded in 1947, was named after Sarah Lane, a 1919 graduate who served as the dean of women, 1931-1950. It disbanded in 1965, but its alumnae stayed active through the 2000s.
Established in 1972, the Hispanic Association for Cultural Enrichment at Rice (HACER) is one of the most visible organizations for Hispanics on campus. HACER offers many opportunities for all members of the Rice community to enjoy such as cultural, educational, political, service, outreach, and social activities.
The Biology Department at Rice University formed in 1912 with Julian Huxley named the first Professor of Biology. His name is commemorated by the department's Huxley Fellows Program, a fellowship for recent Ph.D. recipients. In 1989 the Biology Department became The Ecology and Evolutionary Biology (EEB) Department; this transition is well documented in the Annual Reports leading up to and immediately following the formation of the EEB Department, from 1985 to 1992. Today the department focuses on plant/insect interactions, molecular evolution, genomics, and the biology of plants, insects, and microbes. Recent research has examined environmental issues, such as ecosystem degradation and global warming, and their actual and potential effects on the environment. The department offers M.S., M.A., and Ph.D. Degrees to graduate students and B.A. and B.S. degrees to undergraduates. The graduate programs seek to build strong relationships between faculty and students, while the undergraduate degrees look to inspire a sense of environmentalism within its students. The EEB Department is housed in the Anderson Biology Lab with a recently renovated greenhouse next to the lab building.
The original charter for the Rice Institute was drawn from an indenture written by William Marsh Rice in 1891 and stated that the institute would be open to "white inhabitants of Houston and Texas" for "free tuition". The trustees of the Rice Institute petitioned the courts in February 1963 as a request for declaratory order confirming that the board of trustees in fact already possessed the authority and prerogative under the Charter to amend the same (which multiple courts subsequently affirmed). The Rice Board of Trustees was unanimous in supporting this suit, claiming that such actions were necessary in order to carry out William Marsh Rice's primary intent to establish an educational institution of the first class. Rice President Kenneth Pitzer was also in full support of this initiative. Rice was unable to compete for grant funding because it did not charge tuition to students, and was under increasing pressure by the civil rights movement to admit students based on merit and without regard to race. Rice was among the last of the southern colleges and universities to admit students of color.
In summer 1963, two Rice alumni, John B. Coffee and Val T. Billups filed a petition intervening in the suit and challenging the trustees' position. In January 1964, a group of Rice University alumni filed a petition supporting the trustees' position and opposing Coffee and Billups. Later that month, Coffee and Billups filed an amended petition further outlining their points.
The case went to District Judge William M. Holland's court on Feb. 10, 1964 and a verdict favorable to Rice was handed down on March 9, 1964.
Later in 1964, the first civil court of appeals affirmed District Judge William M. Holland's ruling. In 1965, the first civil court of appeals dismissed an appeal by two Rice alumni, John B. Coffee and Val T. Billups (begun in summer 1963), ruling that the two men had no justifiable interest in the case. Coffee and Billups then appealed to the Texas Supreme Court, who sent the case back to the appeals court, claiming it should heard the case in the first place.
Tuition was charged to students who could afford it beginning in 1965. In fall 1965, Rice's first two African American undergraduate freshmen were admitted and began classes. One of them was a woman, Jacqueline McCauley of Houston. However, Rice's first African American student was actually admitted in 1963, when Raymond Lewis Johnson was admitted to the Math Department in pursuit of a master's degree. As part of these changes to the charter, Rice Institute became known as Rice University.
Prior to this charter lawsuit, Rice did on occasion ignore the Caucasian rule and admit male students of color, including Charles S. Chan of Houston who graduated in 1941 with a B.S. in architectural engineering.
In October 1966, the appeals court upheld Judge Holland's 1964 ruling in favor of Rice Institute. In February 1967, the Texas Supreme Court denied a writ of error in the lawsuit filed by alumni Coffee and Billups.
A 1982 lawsuit over the charter provision requiring all seven trustees to live in Houston was overturned. Further amendments to the charter were made in 1998, enabling the expansion of the Board of Trustees from seven to a maximum of twenty-five and allowing Rice to incur debt by borrowing money or using tax-free bonds to finance large projects such as construction.
Clark P. Read was born February 4, 1921 in Fort Worth Texas. He received his B.A., M.A. and Ph.D. from Rice University and served as Assistant Professor of Zoology from University of California Los Angeles and Associate Professor of Parasitology at John Hopkins University before returning to serve as Professor of Biology at Rice in 1959. Dr. Read served as Chair of the Biology Department at Rice from 1964 to 1969 and 1972 to 1974. In 1966 Read served on the Board of Trustees of the Marine Biological Laboratory in Woods Hole, MA. He also was a epidemiology professor at the Baylor School of Medicine from 1961 to 1965. He was renown for his research in parasitology, which can be seen in his research notes and correspondence during his time at UCLA. Dr. Read died when he was 52 years old on December 23, 1973.
Founded in 1968, the Susanne M. Glasscock School of Continuing Studies now enrolls more than 12,000 people into programs in professional development, personal development, and languages. The school promotes personal and professional development for the larger Houston community, offering daytime and evening courses. The professional development program includes courses on career development, communication skills, financial education, and human resource education. The personal development program includes courses in the arts, humanities, sciences, photography, and creative writing. The School of Continuing Studies also offers a program to allow working adults to obtain their Master of Liberal Studies degree.
Mary McIntire became the founding Dean of Continuing Education in 1986 after a strong career in the School of Continuing Studies for over ten years. Mary McIntire continued to support Rice University throughout her career not only as Dean of Continuing Education, but as chair of various committees including the KTRU and Audio/Visual Committee. Dr. McIntire has received awards for supporting women in education and was named Houston Women's Federation Woman of the Year in 1997. See gscs.rice.edu for more information.
Gale Stokes became a History Professor at Rice University in 1968 after receiving his Ph.D. and M.A. from Indiana University. At Rice University, he has served as Dean of Humanities and Chairman of the Department of History. Professor Stokes is a three-time winner of the George R. Brown Award for Superior Teaching and won the Vucinich Prize in 1994 for the best book in his field. He has authored three books and served as president of the American Association for the Advancement of Slavic Studies in 2003. Professor Stokes specializes in the history of Eastern Europe, the Balkans, and Western Civilization.
Rice University, a private, independent, coeducational university in Houston, opened in 1912 as the William Marsh Rice Institute. It was chartered in 1891 by former Houston merchant William Marsh Rice with a $200,000 interest-bearing note payable to the Rice Institute upon his death.
In 2009, the Rice Historical Society began a project to publish a book commemorating the upcoming centennial of the founding of Rice University. Rice University: One Hundred Years in Pictures was published by Texas A & M University Press in September 2012. The book includes more than 300 photographs that tell the story of a century of student life, a world-famous faculty, and news-making events at Rice.
Excerpted from: https://tshaonline.org/handbook/online/articles/kbr05
Alida C. Metcalf, Harris Masterson, Jr. Professor of History, teaches undergraduate and graduate courses in Latin American history. At the graduate level, she regularly offers seminars in the history of the Luso-Atlantic World, Brazil, and Colonial Latin America. Metcalf directs the Dual Degree program between the history departments of Rice and the Universidade Estadual de Campinas, Brazil, which allows highly talented graduate students to earn two Ph.Ds, one from Rice and one from UNICAMP. Metcalf's current research focuses on the history of water in Rio de Janeiro. With Fares el-Dahdah she co-directs imagineRio, a digital humanities project on the social and architectural history of Rio de Janeiro.
The DeLange Conferences are made possible by an endowment established at Rice University by C. M. and Demaris Hudspeth in memory of Demaris' parents, Albert J. and Demaris Crowley DeLange. These conferences began in 1991 and are held every two to four years. They have the flexibility to range broadly in subject matter and discipline. All are intended to bring to the Rice University campus top experts and major figures to focus on a topic of great concern to society. Focusing on diverse topics such as the environment, human behavior, medicine, libraries, art museums, universities, information technology, and city planning, the conferences have occurred periodically since 1991, usually on the Rice campus and often co-sponsored by other organizations. Speakers are recruited internationally. Four conferences resulted in published books.
Excerpted from the DeLange Conference website: http://delange.rice.edu.
Dr. Jorge Awapara was born in Arequipa Peru on January 15, 1918. He studied chemistry in Germany at the Rheinisch Wesfaelische Technische Hochschule, (now Aachen University of Technology) from 1936-39. With the onset of WWII he returned to Arequipa briefly, then transferred his studies to Michigan State University where he obtained Bachelor and Master of Science degrees in 1941 and 1942. His doctorate in Biochemistry was awarded by the University of Southern California in 1948. He was a Research Associate at the University of Texas, M. D. Anderson Hospital from 1948 until 1957 at which time he joined the faculty of Rice Institute (now Rice University) as an Associate Professor, becoming Full Professor in 1962. During his career at M. D. Anderson Hospital and Rice University he made many important contributions to the field of biochemistry which received a large number of citations in world literature. His research work was internationally known. He retired in 1984.
The 1990 Economic Summit, also known as the 16th G7 Summit, was held on the campus of Rice University from July 9th through July 11th. The G7 is an unofficial annual forum for the leaders of the richest industrialized countries: France, West Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom, the United States, and Canada. It also includes the President of the European Commission. The core participants in 1990 were Brian Mulroney, Prime Minister of Canada; Francois Mitterand, President of France; Helmut Kohl, Chancellor of West Germany; Giulio Andreotti; Prime Minister of Italy; Toshiki Kaifu, Prime Minister of Japan; Margaret Thatcher, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom; George H. W. Bush, President of the United States; and Jacques Delors, President of the European Commission.
The summit was conceived as a venue for resolving differences among the G7 members and also as an opportunity for the members to give each other mutual encouragement in relation to difficult economic decisions. Issues discussed at this summit included the international economic situation, international monetary developments and policy, the international trading system, direct investment, export credits, reform in central and Eastern Europe, the Soviet Union, the developing nations, third world debt, the environment, and narcotics. Source: "16th G7 Summit" Wikipedia, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/16th_G7_summit, accessed 7 January, 2013.
Forming in 1916, the Rice Owl Band consisted of twelve members with interests in band activities and reading band literature. By 1922, when Lee Chatham became the director, the band had 35 members and grew to 50 under his leadership. Since there was a dearth of high school bands, some of the members came from the community at large.
During World War II, the membership of the band was unstable, which lead to the creation of a new band of Navy cadets under the V-12 program. After the war, the band reorganized and the all-male outfit added four majorettes.
In the 1950s and 1960s, director Holmes McNeely made the band co-ed, bought instruments, added personnel, and gave a small number of band scholarships. The issuing of scholarships continued under director Bert Roth (1967-1979) who provided work scholarships for participating band members. Roth also changed the focus of the band from a marching band to a scatter band.
Starting in 1970, the band began to infuse timely and sometimes controversial topics into their halftime shows. Into the 1970s, the band began to move away from traditional band uniforms and sometimes chose outfits that matched the theme of their halftime shows.
1980 brought Ken Dye as the new Rice Owl Band director. He added new bands like the Jazz Ensemble and the Rice Concert Band. In addition, he selected the mob-style uniforms to match the new name of the band, the Marching Owl Band (MOB). Dyer also promoted travel, even taking the MOB to the Opening Ceremonies of the 1984 Olympics, the 1986 Statue of Liberty celebration, the 1986 U.S. Olympic Festival, and 1993 Carnivale in Nice, France.
Currently, band director Chuck Throckmorton has continued the legacy of Ken Dye. The Jazz Ensemble, Basketball Owl Band, Rice Symphonic Band, and Houston Concert Band continue to provide an outlet for non-music majors at Rice. Meanwhile, the MOB still plays halftime shows and courts controversy.
--Taken from "The MOB: Rice University Owl Marching Owl Band" handbook, 1988.
The Rice Historical Commission was formed in 1975, largely due to the inspiration of alumnus Willoughby Williams (Rice '39), who worked hard to organize support for the creation of written histories of Rice. Under the Commission's direction, with H. Malcolm Lovett as chairman, historian Fredericka Meiners (Rice '63) directed the history project which resulted in the 1982 publication of A History of Rice University: The Institute Years, 1907-1963. Historian and provost Frank Vandiver and archivist Nancy Boothe assisted in this project, as did many others.
The Rice Historical Commission is currently known as the Rice Historical Society. Its mission is to collect and preserve the history of Rice University.
The Society generously provided funding for the 2003 digital preservation of the original and unique oral history interviews in this collection.
Mary Fosselman was born in Illinois on September 15, 1916. After living briefly in Houston, Missouri, and Arkansas, her family finally settled in Houston in 1930. She then attended Milby High School. Upon graduation, she went to the Rice Institute and graduated with a BA in 1938.
After graduation, Fosselman took classes at Houston Business College and received a diploma in Stenography. She eventually worked at Schlumberger where she retired in 1981. Fosselman passed away in 2006.
Riki Kobayashi was the Louis Calder Chair in Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering. He received his BA in Engineering from Rice in 1944 and an MSE and PhD from the University of Michigan in 1947 and 1951, respectively. His research focused on vapor-liquid phase equilibria, PVT measurement interpretations, hydrate measurement interpretations, chromatographic measurements, transport property measurements, and light scattering in the fluid critical region. His lifelong work benefitted the natural gas industry, and he has close ties to the Gas Processors Association. He also is a member of The Academy of Medicine, Engineering and Science of Texas and the National Academy of Engineering.
Some information taken from--"A Technical Biography of Professor Kobayahi's Work" written by E. Dendy Sloan and Pervaiz Nasir" in the 1980s.
The Student Association formed through vote during a mass meeting of the student body on December 12, 1918. Lead by senior class president H. L. Bell, the first regular meeting of the Rice University Student Association was held on January 25, 1919 in the Physics building at 1:30 P.M. The association then proceeded to draft a constitution and to deal with problems concerning funds for school activities and organizations, including the Thresher and the Campanile.
The Student Association has contributed not only to the daily workings of Rice University, but also the overall culture and experience felt by today's students. In 1969, the Student Association fought for the readmission of Rice University's first African-American student and, in 1973, petitioned to provide legal consultation for all Rice students. Since its formation, the Student Association continued to support student speech, social outreach, and to keep the student body politically informed.
Today, the Student Association is run by an elected Senate consisting of the Executive committee, the college Senators, and the college Presidents. The Student Association's goal is to be "the voice of the student body and a forum for students to help students make improvements in student life". Please see sa.rice.edu for more information.
The materials that constitute this collection were created when faculty members at Rice University applied to the National Science Foundation for a grant to fund efforts to increase the participation of women faculty and faculty of color in the departments of science, technology, engineering, and math. In mid-September of 2006, a grant of 3.3 million dollars for a five-year program was awarded.
Under the leadership of Principal Investigator Dr. Kathy Matthews, Rice University Dean of Natural Sciences, and Jan Rinehart, Director, committees of current women faculty were formed to gather information and to plan activities. Study participants gathered employment and salary data, surveyed women faculty about the campus climate, and researched literature on pertinent issues. In addition they planned and carried out a Triad Mentorship Program, Department Chair Training, and workshops. The first was titled Negotiating the Ideal Faculty. The second was a one-day workshop for pre-tenure faculty focused on communications and understanding university processes.
The Theta Chapter of Pi Delta Phi, the National French Honor Society, was established at Rice University in 1930. From that time on, initiation of new members took place every year in April. The ceremony was traditionally followed by a banquet at the Faculty Club. Officers were elected at each year's annual meeting.
The first advisor was Professor Marcel Moraud. He was succeeded in 1956 by Professor Andre Bourgeois, who in turn was succeeded by Dr. Margaret Sobel in 1971. It is not clear when this role passed to Professor Deborah Nelson, but she was serving as advisor in the later years of the records.
When Professor Bourgeois died in 1994, donations in his memory were used to establish an award given annually, the André Bourgeois Pi Delta Phi Award.
The Intramural Sports Records, 1939-1995 begin with an October 6, 1939 newsclipping that reports the formation of an intramural athletic council under the supervision of G. L. Hermance, director of intramural activities. Representatives from nine men's clubs (including the Rally Club, Pre-Law Association, Pre-Medical Society, Engineering Society, the Band, Architectural Society, East Hall, South Hall, and West Hall) met "to organize and pledge support to a new intramural system which is now in the process of formation."
In addition to teams formed by the various men's clubs, in 1942 Pat Crady announced that there would be basketball for five women's teams: the literary societies E.B.L.S, P.A.L.S., O.W.L.S., the Girls' Club, and the Independents. Play was to start Nov. 20, and games would be played in the gymnasium at Palmer Memorial Episcopal Church across Main Street from campus. Also in 1942 six women's and eight men's teams entered a bowling league. Faculty fielded a team that competed in volleyball with the men's student teams. In 1943 there was a softball tournament with seven teams, one of faculty and two of N.R.O.T.C. Table tennis play was also organized with sixteen participating in a singles tournament and eight teams in doubles.
The intramural program continued with strong participation through 1943, but then it "became dormant" according to a Thresher article because of the stationing of a V-12 unit at Rice. During the war years because of short-handedness in the Physical Education Department, intramurals were stripped to bare essentials of organization.
However, in the fall of 1947, an intramural sports council was reformed, again with the sponsorship of Associate Professor of Education Gilbert Hermance. Activities in 1947-48 included touch football, fencing (including both men and women), volleyball (including a faculty team led by Mr. Hermance), basketball, and softball. For basketball there were 19 men's teams and five women's, specifically the four literary societies and the Girls' Club. Softball included an engineering faculty team.
In 1948 John Plumbley became the Intramural Director, and the Rice Girls' Sports Council was set up, composed of representatives from the four literary societies and the Girls' Club. In 1950 two additional PhysicaL Education Department members were assigned responsibilities for intramurals, Hally Beth Poindexter as Assistant Director for women's activities, and J. R. Barker as Assistant Director for men's.
1953 saw the beginning of a long Rice intramural tradition, the annual spring picnic (later barbeque) for all the participants who had won championships in the current academic year. By the time of the fourth annual intramural picnic in 1956, J. R. Barker was Intramural Director, and Hally Beth Poindexter's role had been taken over by Margaret Garrett. The women's literary societies had teams in a volleyball tournament. Joanna Hahamis became the Assistant Intramural Director in 1956-57.
Because of the meticulous record keeping of J. R. Barker and his practice of putting together an Intramural Sports Yearbook for every one of the 32 years he was Director, the activities of these years are richly documented. Student participation increased yearly, and the variety of sports offered also grew.
During the period before Barker's retirement in 1986, the greatest changes in the intramural program came about because of the creation and involvement of the university's college system. Though officially established in 1954, and dependent on construction of both additions to the existing residential buildings and an entire new building for women, the college system was not in full operation until 1957. Gradually the formation of teams for athletic competition shifted from student organizations like the women's literary societies and randomly assembled groups of students to the residential colleges. A December 12, 1958 Thresher column reported that J. R. Barker "credited the colleges with a fifteen per cent increase in two years in participants in intramural activities."
For a while there were many intramural activities that took place alongside tournaments composed of teams from the four colleges. For instance, J. R. Barker's Intramural Sports Yearbook for 1959-60 lists the following: men's softball 19 teams college softball 4 teams women's basketball 12 teams women's softball tournament women's volleyball tournament. In April 1960 there was a college rifle match which included teams from the four men's colleges as well as a six-member team of women from Jones College (which won fourth place). By 1961 the Jones women came in second in the college rifle match.
It appears that participation on a college team involved a somewhat higher level of play than did the other teams. The September 19, 1959 Thresher carried the announcement, "Note carefully- If you intend to participate on your college teams you must first play that sport in intramurals. This year plaques will be given to each college bearing their success in the athletic competition."
For the women, in 1959 the literary societies were still forming teams. The women's swim meet at 4:30 on a spring Wednesday was won by the E.B.L.S. In women's sports there were also teams defined by class—freshmen, sophomores, juniors, and seniors. For instance in 1963-64 a women's volleyball tournament involved ten teams divided into two leagues. Both the literary societies and the classes fielded teams. In 1964-65 the O.W.L.S. and the E.B.L.S. had teams competing with four other teams in women's basketball and three other teams in co-ed softball.
In the remainder of the sixties, Joanna Hahamis's name disappears from the records, and by 1970-71 Janet Jo Robbins is listed as Women's Intramural Chairman. By 1975, June McFall had assumed responsibility for women's intramural activities. Also by 1975 the records show women from Brown College as well as Jones competing.
In 1980-81 Jim Hesson was in charge of women's activities, in 1981-82, this position was filled by Genie Lutz, and by 1982-83, June Dickey had taken it over.
In the spring of 1982 Lisa Widner began work at Rice. By 1983-84 she was Director of Women's Intramurals, and in 1986 J. R. Barker retired after 37 years at Rice. By this time the annual intramural picnic had become a barbeque and was in its thirty-fourth year. The records suggest that Lisa Widner moved into J. R. Barker's position as Director of Intramurals. In 1992-93 she was assisted by Bill D. Snelling, and in 1994-95 by David Krolow. This is the last year represented in the records that make up this collection.
Lisa Widner continued J. R Barker's thorough recording of activities in an annual summary. The 1993-94 report lists the following 53 activities:
co-ed floor hockey
men's touch football
freshman touch football
men's college team football
co-ed basketball
women's volleyball
women's college team volleyball
women's college team tennis
men's college team tennis
college swim meet
women's college team soccer
men's tennis singles
men's tennis doubles
fall tennis mixed doubles
super Sunday kickball
women's racquetball singles
men's racquetball singles
men's soccer
men's college team soccer
mixed racquetball doubles
table tennis singles
table tennis doubles
men's badminton singles
men's basketball
men's college team basketball
4 on 4 sand volleyball
Timex fitness week
free throw contest
3 point shoot-out contest
women's college racquetball
men's college racquetball
men's badminton doubles
men's racquetball doubles
men's volleyball
men's college team volleyball
co-ed volleyball
co-ed wallyball
women's basketball
women's college team basketball
women's intramural soccer
men's intramural softball
men's college team softball
co-ed softball
women's college team softball
Schick 3 on 3 basketball
slam dunk contest
ultimate Frisbee
women's tennis singles
women's tennis doubles
spring tennis mixed doubles
college co-ed floor hockey
Evian spikefest 2on 2 sand volleyball
college track and field meet.
The materials in this record group are part of the Formal Opening of the William Marsh Rice Institute, opened October 10-12, 1912.
The official programs from the formal opening of Rice Institute are leather bound and consist of a photograph of the founder, William Marsh Rice, a copy of the invitation to a series of inaugural lectures sent to prospective attendees, as well as a detailed daily program of events. The inaugural lecture series was presented by an international group of renowned scholars in fields such as Physics, Mathematics, Biology, the Humanities, and Literature. A brief summary of the accomplishments of each scholar is included. In addition to the lecture series, the Programs detail the social activities scheduled for the attendees, and includes drawings of the major campus buildings of the time.
The Information Packets contain a history of the founding of the Institute; a description and a map of the campus; an engraving of the Administration Building and other buildings and discussion of the architectural style chosen; and plans for the scholarly future of the Institute.
The Committee on the Undergraduate Curriculum is one of fifteen committees of the faculty. During the years represented in the records comprising this collection, the members of the committee were appointed by the University president. The committee was made up of eight or nine members, some of whom served for multiple years. The records include committee membership lists.
There were three parts to the charge that determined the committee's work. The primary one was "to review any matter relating to the structure or content of all the undergraduate curricula." These matters could originate in "the University Council, any standing committee of the University, faculty and student groups, members of the administration and others." It was stated that "the Committee will make appropriate recommendations concerning these matters to the University Council and the President."
The second part of the charge was "to initiate, whenever appropriate, reviews of the general curriculum, any of the undergraduate major curricula, distribution requirements and the like, and make recommendations to the University Council and the President."
The third part of the charge was "to prepare a brief, written report on the year's activities of the Committee at the end of the academic year and to submit copies of this report to the President of the University and the University Council."
In years subsequent to the creation of the records in this collection, the University Council has been replaced by the Faculty Senate.
The Other Economic Summit (TOES), 1990 was the seventh in a series of annual conferences planned to coincide with the G-7, the annual meeting of the world's seven major industrial economies. In 1990 the G-7, also known as the Economic Summit, took place from July 9 to 11 in Houston, Texas. The Other Economic Summit of 1990 took place also in Houston on July 6 through 8.
The founding purpose of The Other Economic Summit in 1984 was to convey to leaders assembled for the Economic Summit, the message that economics "as usual" is leading to a number of undesirable consequences: disrupting cultures, degrading Earth's environment, and undermining people's abilities to join together in common practice to solve problems. From the beginning in 1984, the intention of participants in The Other Economic Summit was to demonstrate that the prevailing exploitative economic policies are not sustainable and are thus ill-suited to the modern world.
The Other Economic Summit of 1990 had as its overall theme "The Voice of the People for a Change," a phrase meant to be understood in two meanings: that the people are demanding change, and that the people, for a change, must be listened to. Each of the three days of TOES '90 had a different topic which was developed by panels and workshops. For the first day the theme was "Global Changes," for the second, "New Perspectives on Ecology and Economy, and for the third, "Democratizing the Economy." Running through the three days were six tracks: sustainable development, environmental and social economic indicators, Houston as microcosm, debt and trade, theories in "alternative" economics, and religious perspectives on economics.
It was intended that position papers on policy alternatives coming out of TOES '90 and collections of thematic papers coming from topical tracks would be published. A draft of the Report and Summary of "The Voice of the People for a Change," edited by Susan Hunt, is included in this collection.
In 1979, future Houston mayor Annise Parker gave Rice professor, Dr. Chandler Davidson, a note with a phone number on it. He then called and heard a man say: "the gay students on campus want to form an officially recognized student group." Davidson agreed and sponsored the group, which took the name The Rice Gay/Lesbian Support Group (RG/LSG). The organization maintained this title until 1986 when it was renamed Gays and Lesbians of Rice (GALOR).
To be more inclusive, GALOR became Pride in 1994. The members wanted to include not only gays and lesbians, but also bisexuals, transgendered people, and allies. During the 2003/2004 academic year, some Pride members created a new group called GATHER (GLBTQAs Advancing Towards a Harmonious Environment at Rice). The impetus for creating GATHER came from the Coach Ken Hatfield controversy in which the football coach made public statements about how he might treat homosexual players. Where Pride served a social function on campus, GATHER had a more social activist thrust. GATHER even had a meeting space in the Wellness Center. In September 2007, Pride and GATHER joined to become Queers and Allies.
Queers and Allies sponsored GLBTQ-themed film showings, sponsors speakers, and organized an annual drag show at Willy's Pub. In 2017, the newly created Queer Resource Center and Queers and Allies joined to become Rice PRIDE.
The history of Women's Studies at Rice can be said to begin in 1983 when Dean of Humanities Allen Matusow returned from a conference in Wisconsin with a sense that Rice was behind the times in relation to this field. Under the leadership of Paula Sanders (history) and Elizabeth Long (sociology), women faculty from various departments—including sociology, history, English, and music—organized a joint study project known as the Faculty Feminist Reading Group, which met several times a semester and brought a few nationally known feminist scholars to campus for public presentations. In 1985 the university hired its first faculty member whose research was dedicated to Women's Studies. This was Jane Gallop, now a Distinguished Professor of English at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee.
In 1990 Helen Longino, subsequently chair of Stanford University's Philosophy Department, was hired by Rice and guided establishment in 1992 of the undergraduate major in the Study of Women and Gender, one of Rice's first interdisciplinary majors.
Having become known as the Program for the Study of Women and Gender, the discipline added "sexuality" to its title in 2005. In 2006 the Program was made a Center, and Rosemary Hennessy, the author of three books on materialist feminism and sexual identities in late capitalism, was brought to Rice to head the Center. Establishment of the Center brought together various expressions of feminist studies on campus, including the peer-reviewed journal Feminist Economics, which was founded in 1995 and continues to be overseen by Diana Strassman, its founding editor. She is also director of the Program on Poverty, Justice, and Human Capabilities, included in the curriculum as a minor in 2006.
In addition to the undergraduate major, the Center offers the Graduate Certificate Program, established in 2004. The curriculum represents an educational philosophy centered on "engaged research." Majors can write a thesis or, beginning in 2008, conduct a research project in partnership with a Houston nonprofit organization. Director Hennessy explains, "For us it means a project that is developed in a collaborative and reciprocal relationship with the clients who are served by this nonprofit." In the first four years of this project, more than 40 students had been matched with 27 Houston-area nonprofit organizations. Research projects ranged from evaluating anti-bullying policies in high schools to educating low-pay workers about the labor laws in Texas. In 2012 the Sherry Matusoff Merfish Award was established to recognize students who show exceptional commitment to social justice or engaged research on an issue pertaining to women, gender, or sexuality.
To mark the twentieth anniversary of Women's Studies at Rice, on November 9 and 10, 2012, the Center held a celebration that featured a graduate student panel and a day-long symposium in which current and former directors participated. Present were Jane Gallop, Distinguished Professor of English, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee; Helen Longino, the Clarence Irving Lewis Professor and Chair of the Department of Philosophy, Stanford University; Paula Sanders, vice provost for academic affairs, dean of graduate and postdoctoral studies, and professor of history, Rice University; Helena Michie, the Agnes Cullen Arnold Professor in Humanities and professor of English, Rice University; Lynne Huffer, the Samuel Candler Dobbs Professor of Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies, Emory University; Lora Wildenthal, associate professor of history and chair of the History Department, Rice University; Elora Shehabuddin, associate professor of humanities and political science, Rice University; and Rosemary Hennessy, the L. H. Favrot Professor of Humanities, professor of English and Center for the Study of Women, Gender, and Sexuality director.
The Center has grown to include 47 faculty affiliates from seventeen departments and three divisions: Humanities, Social Sciences, and the Shepherd School of Music. Also included are visiting scholars, postdoctoral fellows, graduate fellows, graduate assistants, and staff. In addition to its many undergraduate and graduate courses, the Center provides two public lecture series: the Gray/Warow Lectures in Health and Well-being, and the Marian Fox Martel Lectures in Gender and Science. Beyond these series, other acclaimed authors and scholars are brought to campus for their contributions to the study of women, gender, and sexuality.
In 1963 Jones was the only women's college at Rice, and there was such a severe housing shortage that some Rice women were being housed in another university's dorms. In October of that year, George R. Brown and his wife Alice Pratt Brown donated one million dollars through the Brown Foundation to build a new dorm for women at Rice. The new college was established in memory of their sister-in-law, Margarett Root Brown, (1896-1963) who was the wife of the also late Hermann Brown. Margarett Brown was devoted to the fine arts as an art critic and collector and served on the boards of several of organizations. As a tribute to her love of the arts, the first floor of Brown College houses a wide variety of paintings and antique furniture donated by the George R. Brown family and others.
The College was dedicated on October 3, 1965 and was filled primarily by women who had volunteered to leave Jones College to start a new college. Since then other colleges have been added to Rice, and beginning in 1971 some colleges went co-ed. Brown held out as the last all female college until 1987 when it agreed to accept male members.
The College is an eight-story masonry structure on the northeast campus. The high-rise was devised to spare trees. In 2001 new construction will change the Brown College complex. An addition will connect to Brown College on four levels and will extend west of the College in the area occupied by the current Jones Masters' House.
In 1921, after the hiring of A. J. Hartsook, Chemical Engineering became a separate program. The department has grown and changed its name to the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering in 2005. For more information please see: https://chbe.rice.edu/Content.aspx?id=102
Bobby Joe Moon was born in Cleveland, Mississippi, in 1944, the son of Chou Guie Moon, whose name became anglicized as Jew Guie Moon, and Sue Wong, his father's second wife, the first wife having died.
Since B. J. Moon is proud of his ancestry and has devoted substantial attention to preserving records of how his parents entered the U.S. from China, it is appropriate to summarize their stories of resettlement.
J. G. Moon was born in China in 1899, although his identity papers showed 1898. He arrived for the first time at the Port of San Francisco on September 3, 1908, but was denied admission on account of trachoma, an infectious eye condition. A Chinese Six Companies' attorney drew up a document which helped Moon gain admission the following year. After returning to China and saving another $1,500 to pay for passage, he arrived at the Port of San Francisco on July 13, 1909, and was finally admitted to the U.S. on August 25, 1909. Settling in the Sacramento area, he attended school for seven months and then began working on farms and ranches, learning to read and write English using newspapers, with farm or ranch owners' wives tutoring him after dinner. He also worked as a cook for 20 Mule Team Borax Smith's Tonapah and Tidewater Railroad.
In 1913 J. G. Moon went to work for the Sun On Chong Company, a grocery business in Old Sacramento, joining several people with whom he remained in contact as the years passed, one of them being a cousin, Jew Han Lett (J. H. Lett). Intending to start his family in China in the Gor Doi Long Village, in 1920 he applied for the coveted "Merchant" status in order to be guaranteed re-entry to the U.S. He received the classification in February 1921 and immediately left for China through the Port of San Francisco. Before returning on October 12, 1922, he married Fong Shee, who gave birth to their first son in April 1923 in the Village. Several years later J. G. Moon moved to Boyle, Mississippi, to join cousin Jew Doy Lin and J. H. Lett with other Village cousins to form Joe Brothers Company. The business had stores in the Mississippi Delta towns of Boyle, Cleveland, and Shaw.
Between May 30, 1931, and November 7, 1932, J, G. Moon was in China again, having returned to build a house in the New Village, the house that Bobby Moon visited in 2000. The elder Moon was in China again from March 2, 1935 to June 9, 1937. His first wife having died, he married Wong Sui Yeung (anglicized as Sue Wong) in June 1936. He succeeded in arranging for the immigration of Sue Wong and their two daughters as well as their first cousin Joe Y. Sing (15 years old) via Hong Kong and the Port of Seattle on February 11, 1939. They reached Cleveland, Mississippi, in February 1939, traveling by train from Seattle through Chicago. A son, Roy, was born in December 1939 in Boyle, and Bobby Moon in 1944 in Cleveland.
Bobby Joe Moon attended Cleveland High School in Mississippi, then studied accounting and graduated from Mississippi State University, class of 1965. In Houston, he worked for Metro Transit, as Manager of Audit, COntracts and Internal Quality Assurance.
In 1993 Bobby Moon became active in publicly challenging the method used by the Houston Independent School District to distribute spaces for students in programs for the gifted and talented. Because these programs had originated as part of the school district's response to federal desegregation requirements, race was initially a dominant factor in determining which students would be selected. The initial ratio was 30 percent black, 30 percent Hispanic, and 40 percent white or other races. When the Moons went through the testing and application process for their daughter, Laura Anne, to be considered for the gifted and talented program, she was not chosen. Bobby Moon was quoted in the Houston Post (May 25, 1993, p. A-10) saying, "We got a letter saying she qualified, but that there weren't any spaces open. We were lumped in with whites. I know my daughter would have had a better chance if she was considered a minority." He added, "I'd like to be called what we are—Asian Americans—but beyond that I'd just like to see things shake down more fairly. It's really frustrating that our racial classification is holding her back while her intellect is pushing her forward."
Subsequently two other parents sued the school district, charging that their children were denied entry in the gifted and talented program based on their race. In April 1997, the school district appointed a special Peer Examination, Evaluation, and Redesign committee which in July recommended that race be replaced as a criterion for selection with a matrix including test scores, teacher and parent recommendations, grades, and overcoming hardships. Research took place to determine how each of these factors should be weighted, and by November it was announced that the new process would be in place for the selection of students for the 1998-99 school year.
Bobby Moon traveled to China for the first time in 2000, April 22 through May 7. Among the places visited was his father's home village, Gor Doi Long, in an area about thirty miles northwest of Taicheng in South China. With the help of a Chow family tree made in 1983 by Moon's cousin T. Jack Chow of Cleveland, Mississippi, a villager led him to a cousin who, in turn, led him to another cousin. Together the two cousins led Moon and his fellow travelers (a party of four, including his wife, Jennie) to a compound of four homes constructed by the villagers who had gone to the U.S. and returned to build the compound known as the New Village. He found that none of the New Village homes were occupied and were locked. A fact he found interesting is that these homes are still considered the property of the respective owners in America and the property and contents are left for the most part undisturbed.
A key to his father's home was obtained from the village chief. The most important outcome of his getting inside was that on a second story wall he found a framed watercolor portrait of his father, as he wrote, "nearly perfectly preserved at an age that I had never known him to look!" Moon succeeded in convincing the person with the key that he had legitimate claim to the painting, and he proceeded to take it from the wall and bring it back to Houston.
In 1916, a group of nine students, chosen from the early literary societies, began to work on a bi-weekly newspaper. The new publication received its name from C. Harcourt Wooten '16. In a letter to President Edgar Odell Lovett, Wooten viewed a thresher as an object that "separates the good from the bad just as a publication should do."
As the first managing editor, William M. Standish published the first edition on January 15, 1916. With a circulation of over 500, "The Rice Thresher" was four pages long.
Published consistently since 1916, the student newspaper has grown in size and readership. As of 2014, the publication covers a wide variety of university events and issues, including faculty news, local Houston events, Rice theater, and sports.
--Quote taken from Sallyport April/May 1993
--Information taken from the Houston Chronicle, Dec. 9, 1915 and the Galveston News, Jan. 16, 1916
Originally, the Montrose Marching Band was founded for the March on Washington on October 14, 1979. Andy Mills, a member of the band, worked to preserve the band after the conclusion of the march. In its place, he founded the Montrose Symphonic Band and the Montrose Singers in 1979. It was one of the first five gay men's choruses to be founded in the United States.
John-Michael Albert, a published composer with a B.A. in Music from the University of the South and a Master of Music in Conducting from the Moores School of Music at the University of Houston, was also a very early and influential member of the Montrose Singers. For 15 years, starting in 1981, he composed choral pieces for and conducted the chorus.
The Montrose Singers were among the twelve choruses that founded the Gay and Lesbian Association of Choruses (GALA) and have since perforemd alongside other choruses in the Houston community. Between 1988 and 1995, the group sang alongside HeartSong, a lesbian chorus group also from Houston.
In 1992, the group changed its name to the Houston Gay Men's Chorus. The group still exists today and is now part of a larger umbrella organization called Bayou City Performing Arts.
--Taken from http://www.queermusicheritage.us/nov2010m3.html and http://www.mygayhouston.com/listings/Bayou-City-Performing-Arts/23174/
Fred Cunningham Alter graduated from Rice University in 1934 and was the fourth recipient of the Robert P. Quin Award for excellence in leadership, scholarship, and athletics. Born in San Antonio, Texas, on October 8, 1913, he excelled from a young age in tennis and academics, winning the San Antonio Junior Tennis Tournament singles competition and acting as president of his senior high school class.
After graduating from Rice University, Alter earned his L.L.B. from the South Texas School of Law in 1941. He went on to serve in the U.S. Army from 1943-1946, supervising Japanese P.O.W. camps in New Caledonia, Guadalcanal, and Manila. Discharged at the rank of captain, he returned to Texas to work at Matteson-Southwest Advertising Company until 1949 when he assumed a management position at Wetmore & Company. In 1960, he became president of the Trans-State Outdoor Advertising Company until his retirement in 1985. He was a trustee for South Texas Junior College and was an active member of the Vestry of Christ Church Cathedral since 1949. He presented the Robert P. Quin award on numerous occasions before his death on March 20, 2002.
The Rice News, published for Rice faculty and staff, began in the summer of 1991. It was produced on a weekly basis starting that fall, and continued until 2007. In April of 2007, Rice News ended its print version and transitioned into an online version to provide web-based, real-time information for its audience.
Founded in 1919, The Kiwanis Club of Houston is the oldest Kiwanis Club chapter in the Houston area. The Club is a part of Kiwanis International, a community service organization with a network of over 15,000 Kiwanis clubs across the globe. The Kiwanis mission statement is "to serve the children of the world." With over 100 members, the Houston Club serves the children and young people of the Houston area.
The Houston Clubs major initiatives include the Key Clubs, which organize high school students to participate in community service projects, and raising funds through its Annual Charity Golf Tournament and Bike Ride. The Club also run the Kiwanis Back to School Express, and serves free meals at Bo's Place. In 1966, the Houston Club created the Kiwanis Foundation of Houston to assist in raising funds and supporting the Club's services.
Each of these leaves originally formed part of a bound volume, either a Psalter, Bible, or Book of Hours. Having been taken from their context, the specific location and date of their original creation or use is difficult to determine. What information exists has been provided in the detailed description for each item.
Roy M. Huffington was born in Tomball, Texas on Oct 4, 1917. The son of an oil man, he earned his bachelors in geology from Southern Methodist University in 1938, and earned a Ph.D. in geology from Harvard in 1942. After serving aboard the USS Hornet as a lieutenant during World War II, he left the Navy and went to work for Humble Oil. In 1956, Huffington left Humble to start his own business with the money he had saved over the previous decade, Roy M. Huffington, Inc. or as it was also known as, "Huffco". The company made a number of successful ventures around the world, most notably the discovery of vast reserves of natural gas in Indonesia in 1972. In 1989, Huffington sold his oil company, and in 1990 President Bush appointed him to Ambassador to Austria. Among his many other commitments he also served as chairman of the Asia Society and the Salzburg Seminar. Huffington passed away in 2008 at the age of 90.
The Zoroastrian Association of Houston (ZAH) was established in 1977 to preserve Zoroastrian religious practices and rich and varied culture. Members gather at the Zarathushti Heritage & Cultural Center, built in 1998, to learn, celebrate, and worship together. Sunday school classes and many other interest groups meet on a monthly basis. Conferences, lectures, workshops, intercultural events, plays, dance programs, art exhibits, interfaith activities as well as observances and celebrations are held at the Center. The ZAH is an active member of the Federation of Zoroastrian Associations of North America (FEZANA). In 2000, over two thousand Zoroastrians gathered in Houston from all over to world to attend the Seventh World Zoroastrian Congress - the first World Congress to be held outside India or Iran. The World Zarathushti Chamber of Commerce was launched in Houston. The FEZANA Information Research & Education Systems (FIRES), a centralized collection of Zarathushti books, manuscripts, literature, and magazines, is located at the ZAH library.
Gordon Quan was born in China, though he became an American citizen at birth due to his father being a U.S. servicemember. The Quan family moved to Houston following the Chinese Revolution in 1951. Quan received a degree in History and Government from the University of Texas at Austin. He then returned to Houston, where he taught at E.O. Smith Junior High School, and earned a Master's Degree in Education from the University of Houston and a law degree from the South Texas College of Law.
Quan founded his immigration firm, Quan, Burdette & Perez PC, in early 1980. In 1999, Quan became the first Asian American to be elected into the Houston City Council in an at large position. In 2001, he was selected by Mayor Lee. P. Brown and the City Council to serve as Mayor Pro-Tem. Quan has also served as president of the board of directors of the Asian Pacific American Municipal Officials organization and held many other positions in various charities and committees throughout Houston. After ending his term on the City Council, Quan returned to practicing law at his firm, which merged with Tindall & Foster PC in 2007 to become Foster Quan LLP.
Paul Hurshel Sanders was a graduate of the Rice Institute, class of 1940. He was inducted into the Rice Athletic Hall of Fame in 1994 for his record setting achievements in track from 1935-1940. Sanders competed in multiple events consisting of 100, 220, 440, 440-relay, 880-relay, mile-relay and sprint-medley relay. His achievements included setting a new Rice and Southwest Conference record in 1937 with a time of 48.0 seconds for the 440. His sprint-medley team set a world record of 3:25.3 at the Southwest Conference in 1938.
After graduating from Rice, Sanders worked for the Shell Oil Company until his retirement in 1977. After retiring he started his own business, Sanders Accounting, Inc.
Rice University began a search for a new Vice Provost of Research in 2007. The position's duties include managing key elements of the University's research infrastructure, identifying new areas for research, helping to develop links between the university and federal, industry and other funding agencies, and representing Rice to local, regional, national and international constituencies.
The Rice University Department of Psychology, opened in 1963, serves both undergraduate and graduate students, offering a B.A. as well as M.A. and Ph.D. education and training. Its primary focus is on research in both clinical and applied areas. The Department of Psychology is housed in Sewall Hall.
David Schneider came to Rice as a Professor of Psychology in 1989, and served as Department Chair from 1990-1996. He earned his B.A. of Psychology and Philosophy from Wabash College in 1962, and earned his Ph.D. of Social Psychology from Stanford University in 1966. His research interests included stereotypes, prejudice, and the categorization of people.
The Rice Memorial Center (RMC) was built from 1957-1958. It officially opened on December 19, 1958 under the charge of John Kennedy, its first director. Over the years a variety of offices and businesses have existed in the building from the Rice Campus Store to Sammy's Cafeteria.
From 1985-1986, the Ley Student Center was added to the building providing much needed space for existing businesses and offices. This new addition was designed by Cesar Pelli and Associates who also worked on Herring Hall.
The RMC currently houses Rice Coffeehouse, and the offices of the Thresher, the Campanile, and the Rice Program Council just to name a few. In addition, the RMC's Grand Hall also hosts various campus-wide events throughout the school year.
Elizabeth Long is Professor of Sociology at Rice University. She majored in History at Stanford University, and worked for several years in publishing for Simon & Schuster and Alfred A. Knopf, Inc. in New York City. She completed her doctorate at Brandeis University in 1979, teaching Women's Studies and doing administrative work at Wellesley College and M.I.T. during graduate school. She joined the faculty at Rice University in 1978. She was chair of the department of Sociology at Rice University from 2004-2013.
Professor Long has published in the fields of cultural sociology, sociology of gender, the sociology of knowledge, qualitative sociology, and contemporary sociological theory, as well as in the interdisciplinary fields of American Studies, cultural studies, and women's studies. Her most recent book is Book Clubs: Women and the Uses of Reading in Everyday Life (University of Chicago Press, 2003). Her research has been funded by the National Endowment for the Humanities. She has served on several Editorial Boards, including Communication Review, Book Research Quarterly, and Socialist Review. She has also served as Chair of the Culture Section of the American Sociological Association, and on the Program Committee for the American Sociological Association and the American Studies Association. At Rice University, she has won several teaching awards, including the George R. Brown Award for Excellence in Teaching and the Julia Miles Chance Award for teaching excellence and gender sensitivity.
Excerpted from http://sociology.rice.edu/Content.aspx?id=125
Although courses in sociology were being taught at Rice as far back as 1924, the sociology department did not become an autonomous unit at the university until 1971, when it split from the previous Department of Anthropology and Sociology, established ten years earlier. The department, though beginning with only four professors, grew to offer 15-20 courses in 2004, as well as many opportunities for research and publication.
Julian Sorell Huxley (June 22, 1887 - February 14, 1975) was a lecturer in Zoology at Oxford (1910-1912), Research Associate and later Assistant Professor of Biology at Rice Institute (1913-1916), and fought in World War I before returning to Oxford in 1919, where he conducted the famous axolotl experiments and participated in the university's expedition to Spitsbergen. He became Professor of Zoology at King's College, University of London in 1925, but resigned his position in 1927 to collaborate on what would become The Science of Life with H.G. Wells. He was Fullerian Professor of Physiology in the Royal Institution (1927-1929) while working with Wells, however after 1929 he held no academic position. For ten years he was a private person working to advance his ideas about the biological sciences not as a researcher nor as a teacher, but as a writer on scientific developments and their relationship to contemporary social issues.
From 1935-1942 he served as Secretary of the Zoological Society of London, allowing him to encourage solid research on animal behavior while introducing innovative methods for implementing his vision of the zoo as an educational institution. He continued his work as a writer and lecturer and was known throughout war-time Britain for his participation as a panel member of the BBC Brains Trust program. After World War II he helped form Unesco, serving as the organization's first Director-General (1946-1948). Here he set out a program cosmopolitan in vision, one concerned with mankind in relationship with nature and with its past, one in which art and science were equally valued. He also began to articulate fully the concerns which would occupy the later years of his life: the relation of overpopulation to poverty and ignorance, the necessity for the conservation of wilderness and wildlife, and the importance of the renunciation of parochial views on religion and politics. The remainder of his life was spent traveling, lecturing and writing in support of the causes to which he was devoted. Throughout his long career, he contributed significantly to the fields of ethology, ecology and cancer research, and acted as a powerful proponent of neo-Darwinism.
Anita Loos (April 26 1888 - August 18, 1981) was an American screenwriter, playwright, and author. She is best known for her novel "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes."
Francis Jean Marcel Poulenc (January 1, 1899-January 30, 1963) was an accomplished French composer and pianist known for his mélodies, solo piano works, chamber music, orchestral works, choral pieces, operas, and ballets. Poulenc was a member of Les Six, a group of French and Swiss composers who had links with Erik Satie, Jean Hugo and Jean Cocteau.
"Francis Poulenc has come to be considered the greatest composer of French mélodies of his period – a period that opened with the aftermath of the First World War and closed as recently as 1960. He set to music poetry by all of the greatest French twentieth century poets, as well as a few from earlier times. For 25 years the famous baritone Pierre Bernac, with Poulenc at the piano, toured Europe giving recitals, and also visited Britain and America. Thanks to their work, not only in the French repertoire but also in the general Lieder repertoire, the piano-accompanied song increased enormously in popularity in their own country; and in other countries they were very largely responsible for the present wide popularity of the French song repertoire." Exerpt from: Bernac: "Francis Poulenc: The Man and his Songs"
Pierre Bernac (January 12, 1899-October 17, 1979) was a French singer who became the most renowned interpreter of the French art song. He had a close artistic association with Francis Poulenc, who wrote many of his songs for Bernac. He gave the first performances of Francis Poulenc's "Chansons gaillardes" in 1926. He began appearing in recital with Poulenc as his accompanist in 1934, and they continued performing together until Bernac withdrew from performing in public about 1960.
Denise Duval (October 23, 1921- January 25, 2016) was a French soprano, best known for her performances in works by the composer Francis Poulenc. Duval created the roles of Elle in "La voix humaine," Thérèse in "Les mamelles de Tirésias" and later sang the role of Blanche de la Force in "Dialogues of the Carmelites."
Richard Chanlaire (1896-1973) was a French painter, known as the first serious lover of composer Francis Poulenc. Chanlaire exhibited regularly in Paris: at the Salon de la Société Nationale des Beaux-Arts, the Salon des Tuileries, and the Salon des Artistes Indépendants. Chanlaire also designed for collections of Christian Dior and Pierre Balmain.
Inaugurated on April 10, 1947, as the second president of Rice Institute, William V. Houston served in that role until 1960 when a heart attack prompted his decision to resign that office. In the Physics Laboratory he continued his own research, taught one graduate course, and worked with graduate students. In the spring of 1961 he was made Honorary Chancellor, which he remained until his death in 1968. He is the only person in the history of Rice to have had the title Honorary Chancellor.
Dr. Houston's duties as Honorary Chancellor were at his discretion. The annual budget of his office contained no more than his salary, the salary of his long-time secretary, and modest amounts for office equipment, supplies, and travel. In 1967 he was still teaching one graduate physics course and counseling six graduate students.
Because of his years as university President and his reputation as an internationally prominent physicist, he had formed interesting and well-placed connections which he called upon for the benefit of particular faculty members and the university as a whole. It has been said that he acted "as counselor, facilitator, mediator, and ambassador, all during a period of great transition and change for the university."
Honorary Chancellor Houston died in 1968 while traveling to attend a series of meetings of physicists.
The Rice University commencement of 1985, the seventy-second, took place on Saturday May 11 at 7:00 PM on the East Lawn of Lovett Hall. The marshals were James Disch, Chad Gordon, Paul Harcombe, Michael Pearlman, Eva Lee, David Scott, Robert Stein, Richard Stoll, Frederic Wierum, Jr., and Linda Driskill, Chief Marshal.
In 1986 commencement took place on Saturday May 10. Instead of the evening time, the line of participants formed from 9:00 to 9:30 AM, and the procession began at 9:30.
The Duke of Chandos as featured in this 1761 indentured slave contract may have been Henry Brydges, 2nd Duke of Chandos (1708-1771) or James Brydges, 3rd Duke of Chandos (1731-1789). No further information is available for Mr. George Harvey.
Rice Public Art at Rice University oversees the selection and installation of public artworks on campus.
Dr. Madeleine Alcover was born in Casablanca, Morocco on October 27, 1938. She received a Diplôme d'études supérieures de lettres modernes (magna cum laude) and a Doctorate in French Literature (summa cum laude) from the University of Bordeaux. She began her teaching career at Indiana University from 1967-1975 before coming to Rice University in 1971. Specializing in 17th and 18th century French literature, she contributed to the current understanding of the life, times, and works of Cyrano de Bergerac, a subject she would continue to pursue in Paris archives even in the years after her retirement in 2004.
Dr. Alcover garnered international recognition for the five books she published over the course of her career, and of articles on Bayle, Corneille, Fénelon, Furetière, Guilleragues, Madeleine de Scudéry, and Voltaire. Her published books are: Cyrano de Bergerac (1968); La Pensée philosophique et scientifique de Cyrano de Bergerac (1971); L'Autre Monde ou Les Estats et Empires de la Lune (1977); Poullain de la Barre, une aventure philosophique (1981); and Cyrano relu et corrigé (1990). Dr. Alcover passed away on August 27, 2014.
Savinien Cyrano de Bergerac, (born March 6, 1619, Paris—died July 28, 1655, Paris), was a French satirist and dramatist whose works combining political satire and science-fantasy inspired a number of later writers. He has been the basis of many romantic but unhistorical legends, of which the best known is Edmond Rostand's play Cyrano de Bergerac (1897), in which he is portrayed as a gallant and brilliant but shy and ugly lover, possessed (as in fact he was) of a remarkably large nose.
As a young man, Cyrano joined the company of guards and was wounded at the Siege of Arras in 1640. But he gave up his military career in the following year to study under the philosopher and mathematician Pierre Gassendi. Under the influence of Gassendi's scientific theories and libertine philosophy, Cyrano wrote his two best known works, Histoire comique des états et empires de la lune and Histoire comique des états et empires du soleil (Eng. trans. A Voyage to the moon: with some account of the Solar World, 1754). These stories of imaginary journeys to the Moon and Sun, published posthumously in 1656 and 1662, satirize 17th-century religious and astronomical beliefs, which saw man and the world as the center of creation.
Savinien Cyrano de Bergerac. (2015). In Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved from http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/148648/Savinien-Cyrano-de-Bergerac" show="new" title="http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/148648/Savinien-Cyrano-de-Bergerac"&gt;http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/148648/Savinien-Cyrano-de-Bergerac
Jesse Holman Jones, son of William Hasque Jones and Laura Holman Jones, was born in Robertson County, TN, April 5, 1874. The family soon moved to Dallas, TX, where William Jones managed his brother's lumberyard in Terrell. Two years later the family moved to a farm on the Kentucky-Tennessee border, where after completing ninth grade, Jesse was put in charge of one of his father's tobacco factories. In 1891 Jesse entered Hill's Business College in Dallas and then in 1895 started work at his uncle's firm, the M.T. Jones Lumber Co. in Hillsboro, TX. He soon became manager of the Dallas lumberyard, and upon his uncle's death in 1898 became general manager of the Houston yard. He established his own company, the South Texas Lumber Company and expanded into real estate, banking, and commercial buildings and as the largest developer in the area was responsible for most of Houston's prewar construction of over 100 buildings in Houston, Fort Worth, Dallas, New York City. Between 1908 and 1912 he bought part of Houston Chronicle, became chairman of the Texas Trust Company, president of National Bank of Commerce, an original stockholder in Humble Oil and Refining Company, and as chairman of the Houston harbor board, raised money for the Houston Ship Channel.
During World War I President Woodrow Wilson named him director general of military relief for the American Red Cross, he became sole owner of the Houston Chronicle in 1926, and in 1928 as director of finance for the Democratic National Convention, was instrumental in bringing the convention to Houston. President Herbert Hoover named him to the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, President Franklin Roosevelt appointed him head of the RFC (1933-39) and Federal Loan Administrator (1939), and at the same time became Secretary of Commerce. Jones broke his ties with the Democratic party and returned to Houston in 1945 to concentrate on business ventures and philanthropy. Jones died on June 1, 1956.
Martin Tilford Jones, brother of William Hasque Jones/father of Jesse H. Jones, was born in 1841 in Robertson County, Tennessee, and died June 22, 1898 in Houston, TX. He was the fifth of six siblings. He enlisted in the Union Army in 1861 and was mustered out in 1865. After the war he married Louisa Woolard (1849-1934) and had three children: Augusta (1867-1960), Wiliam Eli (1871-1937), and Adiliene Jeanette (1877- ). After farming in Illinois, he moved to Terrell, Texas in 1875 to open a small lumber yard. He moved to Houston in 1883 and two years later organized the M.T. Jones Lumber Company and began acquiring property and timber rights and built saw mills, mostly in east Texas. He built a hugely successful business with an estimated six-five lumber yards mainly in Texas, but also in New Mexico, Colorado, Arizona and Oklahoma. M.T.'s nephew, Jesse H. Jones worked for the Dallas lumberyard, and when M.T. died, Jesse Jones moved to Houston to manage his estate.
Jesse Holman Jones, son of William Hasque Jones and Laura Holman Jones, was born in Robertson County, TN, April 5, 1874. The family soon moved to Dallas, TX, where William Jones managed his brother's lumberyard in Terrell. Two years later the family moved to a farm on the Kentucky-Tennessee border, where after completing ninth grade, Jesse was put in charge of one of his father's tobacco factories. In 1891 Jesse entered Hill's Business College in Dallas and then in 1895 started work at his uncle's firm, the M.T. Jones Lumber Co. in Hillsboro, TX. He soon became manager of the Dallas lumberyard, and upon his uncle's death in 1898 became general manager of the Houston yard. He established his own company, the South Texas Lumber Company and expanded into real estate, banking, and commercial buildings and as the largest developer in the area was responsible for most of Houston's prewar construction of over 100 buildings in Houston, Fort Worth, Dallas, New York City. Between 1908 and 1912 he bought part of Houston Chronicle, became chairman of the Texas Trust Company, president of National Bank of Commerce, an original stockholder in Humble Oil and Refining Company, and as chairman of the Houston harbor board, raised money for the Houston Ship Channel.
During World War I President Woodrow Wilson named him director general of military relief for the American Red Cross, he became sole owner of the Houston Chronicle in 1926, and in 1928 as director of finance for the Democratic National Convention, was instrumental in bringing the convention to Houston. President Herbert Hoover named him to the Reconstruction Finance Coporation, President Franklin Roosevelt appointed him head of the RFC (1933-39) and Federal Loan Administrator (1939), and at the same time became Secretary of Commerce. Jones broke his ties with the Democratic party and returned to Houston in 1945 to concentrate on business ventures and philanthropy. Jones died on June 1, 1956.
The collection includes individual files for Rice related persons (faculty, students, alumni, staff, significant visitors), events, programs, traditions, campus artworks, organizations, buildings, and subjects. The formats include newsclippings, notes, correspondence, photographs, and other materials. The contents are donated by Rice community members and/or gathered by the Woodson Research Staff, and represent one of the most heavily used portions of the University Archives.
Frederick B. Rudolph was a ground-breaking researcher and a devoted educator in biochemistry who was hired to teach at Rice University in 1972. He died in the midst of his customary activities at the university in 2003 at the age of 58.
Fred Rudolph's most far-reaching research concerned the enzyme adenosine desminase. It was reported in the June 2, 1991 issue of the journal Science. Working with two colleagues, Rudolph found that an immune deficiency occurred when this enzyme, normally present in all body cells, was missing from B and T lymphocytes, cells of the immune system located in the blood, spleen, and thymus. One important outcome of this discovery is that it led every major producer of infant formula worldwide to add what the work showed is necessary for development of a strong immune system.
As an educator, Fred Rudolph was not only an effective teacher of his own courses, but also a leader in curriculum development nationally. For multiple years he was involved as a workshop leader in Project Kaleidoscope, an informal national alliance of individual institutions and organizations committed to strengthening undergraduate science, mathematics, engineering, and technology education.
He was also a participant in numerous inter-institutional activities with the Texas Medical Center, among them the Rice-Baylor College of Medicine Planning Committee, which sponsored a pathway for qualified students to be admitted to Baylor College of Medicine after successful completion of a specified sequence of Rice courses.
Rudolph's efforts as an educator also reached out to pre-college-age young people. He established short summer residential programs offered at Rice to students in economically disadvantaged schools, both in Houston and in the Rio Grande Valley. The aim of these programs was to expose young people to the activity of laboratory research and to career possibilities in science and medicine.
In addition to work in his academic discipline, Rudolph made important contributions to the institutional life of Rice. He was a member and then chair of the Admissions and Financial Aid Committee for more than two decades.
This collection includes individual files for photographs of Rice related persons, photographs of Rice University views, interiors, and buildings, photographs of Rice related events, and more. The contents are donated by Rice community members and/or gathered by the Woodson Research Staff, and represent one of the most heavily used portions of the University archives.
During his career as a trainer at the Rice Institute, Jack Shelton was known as "Nigger Jack" to many. African Americans were specifically excluded from attending Rice under the original charter until it was broken in the early 1960's. Marcia J. Citron is Martha and Henry Malcolm Lovett Distinguished Service Professor of Musicology Emerita. A member of the faculty since 1976, Citron specializes in music of the Romantic era, opera, opera and film, gender in music, and Brahms. In addition to numerous articles she has authored five books, including two devoted to her current interest, media representations of opera: When Opera Meets Film (2010, Cambridge University Press) and Opera on Screen (2000, Yale University Press). Two earlier books garnered awards: Gender and the Musical Canon (1993) won the Pauline Alderman Prize for best book on women in music from the International Alliance for Women in Music; and Letters of Fanny Hensel to Felix Mendelssohn (1987) was named "Outstanding Book" by Choice magazine. Her other monograph is a Bio-Bibliography of French composer Cécile Chaminade(1988).
Citron's scholarly contributions have been recognized by a lifetime achievement award—the granting of Honorary Membership—from the American Musicological Society. She has served the AMS in a variety of roles: as member of the Board of Directors; chair of major publication-awards committees (for best book by a senior scholar, and for best article by a junior scholar); and member of several other committees, including the Colin Slim award committee, professional development committee, and status of women committee. Her research has been supported by grants from the National Endowment for the Humanities, DAAD (German Academic and Exchange Service), and Rice University.
(bio from Shepherd School of Music)
The International Association of Administrative Professionals (IAAP) was founded in 1942 as the National Secretaries Association (NSA). The purpose of the NSA is to improve the standards of the secretarial profession, to provide educational benefits, and to sponsor civic and social activities.
The Houston Chapter of the NSA was chartered on September 28, 1948 at a meeting in the Sam Houston Hotel with 29 charter members. Houston hosted the National Convention for NSA in 1951 at the Shamrock Hotel. The Houston chapter established its first scholarship at the University of Houston for a "worthy high school graduate interested in a secretarial career." The organization changed names in 1981 to Professional Secretaries International and again in 1998 to the International Association of Administrative Professionals (IAAP) to encompass the large number of varied administrative job titles and recognize the advancing role of administrative support staff in business and government.
Robert Schumann, German composer and music critic, was born in Zwickau, Saxony, 8 June 1810. While best remembered for his piano music and songs, and some of his symphonic and chamber works, Schumann made significant contributions to all the musical genres of his day and cultivated a number of new ones as well. His dual interest in music and literature led him to develop a historically informed music criticism and a compositional style deeply indebted to literary models. A leading exponent of musical Romanticism, he had a powerful impact on succeeding generations of European composers. Schumann died in Endenich near Bonn, on 29 July, 1856"--Excerpted from: "'Schumann, Robert', The new grove dictionary of music online", ed. L. Macy (Accessed [01/05/2003]), http://www.grovemusic.com.
Fred J. Stancliff for 63 years was the secretary-treasurer of the Rice University organization for all athletes whose participation earned them the award of the letter R. He and his wife Florence are credited with keeping the R Association operating through decades of Rice athletics that are referred to as "The Stancliff Years."
Stancliff came to Rice from El Campo, Texas, and as a freshman was captain of the track team. He distinguished himself particularly as a discus thrower. Attention to his expertise was drawn not only by distance records but also by a photograph showing him in position ready to throw. The resemblance of the photograph to a well- known Greek statue led to its being printed first in the rotogravure section of a Houston newspaper and then circulated nationally.
Stancliff was elected secretary of the R Association in 1923 when he accepted his first varsity letter. He continued in that position and added treasurer to it, serving until 1986. In 1971 the organization honored him with the Distinguished R Man Award, and in 1973 he was recognized with a tribute as "the man who has been the motivating and sustaining force in our organization for the last 50 years."
A Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering is the degree Stancliff earned, graduating in 1926. Until the Depression years he worked as a field and petroleum engineer. Friendship with a fellow alumnus who had been captain of the football team led to his being offered a job selling insurance for Southland Life. By 1935 he was given the opportunity to become a general agent for Volunteer State Life Insurance Company, a position he held for many years.
Sancliff died in 1995.
Reginald Moore, of Sugar Land, Texas, has created or maintained this collection of material as part of his work with the Texas Slave Descendants Society. Mr. Moore is an historian and has a certification in Community Economic Development from the College of Biblical Studies. He is also a community activist, and has a particular interest in prison reform and prison re-entry into society. He served as a correctional officer in the Texas Department of Corrections, 1985-1988. Mr. Moore worked in the Beauford H. Jester I and III Units, a prison farm located in unincorporated Fort Bend County, Texas. Jester I Farm was the first built by the state at this site, and was known as the Old Harlem Farm. Although convict leasing as a practice is believed to have begun informally in 1872, the State of Texas sanctioned the contract to lease the penal system to the private firm of Ed H. Cunningham and L.A. Ellis (Cunningham and Ellis) in 1878. In 1883, the land and system reverted from private to state control. While working at this site, Mr. Moore became interested in the history of the Flanagan House (former warden's house) and then in the Central Unit of the prison. Over time, this interest grew and became a major research area for Mr. Moore, who went on to found and chair the Texas Slave Descendants' Society(TSDS) in the early 2000's. Through the TSDS and on his own, Mr. Moore, has worked to gain recognition for the past abuses associated with Sugar Land's convict leasing system. In 2016, the Texas Slave Descendants Society hosted its annual Labor Day program and honored Dr. Ken Brown (University of Houston) with the Emancipator Award for his archaeological work and advocacy in Sugar Land. Dr. Fred McGhee was recognized with the Lifetime Achievement Award. In the previous year, Dr. Lora Wildenthal (Rice University) was honored with the Emancipator Award for leading her students in highlighting Mr. Moore's work through the Houston Area Research Team program.
Mr. Moore serves as a member of the RIP Guardian program for the Imperial Prison Cemetery. Mr. Moore's son, Reginald J. Moore, earned a B.S. in Criminal Justice from Prairie View AM, and has also contributed to this body of research.
Texas Monthly magazine featured Mr. Moore and his advocacy regarding convict leasing in the January 2017 issue, available online at http://www.texasmonthly.com/articles/sugar-land-slave-convict-labor-history/. In Summer 2017, construction began on the Sugar Land Heritage Museum and Visitor Center, with the City of Sugar Land and the Sugar Land Heritage Foundation as partners in its creation. The museum and visitor center are set to open by the end of 2017. Mr. Moore and the Texas Slave Descendants Society has lobbied since 2003 for a separate museum and monument to tell the story of convict leasing and black history, within the context of Fort Bend County history.
In 2018, unmarked graves in the vicinity of the Imperial Prison Cemetery were discovered when the land was being being developed for Fort Bend ISD's future technology center.
Fox 26 News story, "Mystery deepens over unmarked Sugar Land cemetery on Ft. Bend school site" April 13, 2018 http://www.fox26houston.com/news/mystery-deepens-over-unmarked-sugar-land-cemetery-on-site-of-ft-bend-school-project
KTRK ABC News story: "Historic cemetery found on construction site of Fort Bend ISD's future technology center" April 11, 2018: http://abc13.com/society/historic-cemetery-found-on-ft-bend-isd-work-site/3329602/
KTRK ABC News story: "89 graves found at construction site of Fort Bend ISD's new technology center" April 25, 2018 http://abc13.com/society/89-graves-found-at-site-of-fort-bend-isds-new-technology-center/3392447/
The Emancipaptor Award is an annual Labor Day Recognition of the Convict Lease System, presented to a deserving community member by the Texas Slave Descendants Society. The Rice University Dean of Students, later known as Dean of Undergraduates, is charged with assisting students with issues related to academics and advising, career services and extracurricular and social activities.
Mark Scheid earned his undergraduate degree in English at Rice University in 1967 and his doctorate in English literature in 1972. He joined Texas Southern University (TSU) as an assistant professor of English in 1971 and became an associate professor there in 1978 and a full professor in 1985. He became a visiting professor of English at Rice in 1984 and held numerious academic advising and administrative posts including assistant vice president for student affairs and Director of Academic Advising and International Programs.
Scheid assumed the position of assistant to the president on November 1, 1999. He worked with Carl MacDowell during a transition period until MacDowell's tenure ended January 31, 2000. He served the Office of the President during two administrations - Malcolm Gillis (1993-2004) and David Leebron (2004-present) before filling the newly created position of managing director for programs and international studies at the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy in 2006.
The Parking Committee is one of fifteen standing committees appointed by the president. At its largest, it numbered nineteen people, a combination of faculty, staff, and students. In 1996-97 and 1997-98 the chairman was Wil Uecker. William Cannady, who had been on the committee in the preceding years, became chairman in 1998-99 and served in that role for the remaining years represented in the collection.
Jewish life for Houston's college students started in 1915 with the establishment of the Menorah Society at Rice University. The purpose of the organization, and its successor the Hillel Society, was to bring Jewish students at Rice together in religious, social, cultural, and charitable activities. The Hillel Society of Houston was established at Rice in 1940, under the directorship of Rabbi Robert Kahn and, following the Second World War, at the University of Houston. Houston Hillel is a multi-campus Hillel Foundation, whose mission is "Houston Hillel enriches the lives of Jewish undergraduate students, graduate students and young professionals so that they may enrich the Houston Jewish community, the Jewish people and the world," according to their website located at http://www.houstonhillel.org/ (accessed Jan. 21, 2016). Hillel activities at Rice University are a part of this larger city group.
The Vietnamese American Heritage Foundation (http://www.vietnameseamerican.org/) conducted a series of oral history interviews in 2011 as a national project called "500 Oral Histories Project" in the U.S. These interviews have been donated to universities in groups by the location where the interviews took place. The interviews in this collection largely took place in Houston, Texas.
John David Kirkland, born 6 June 1933 in McAllen, TX, spent his formative years in Edinburg and Austin Texas. He graduated Austin High School in 1950 and attended Yale University for his Bachelor of Arts in 1955 and Yale Law School for a law degree in 1958.
Kirkland moved to Houston TX in summer 1958 to practice corporate and securities law at Baker, Botts, Shepherd & Coates, and remained until 1967. He headed the team that helped T. Boone Pickens create Mesa Petroleum Co., George H.W. Bush, founder of Zapata Corp., and J. Hugh and William Liedtke, who developed Pennzoil Co. Kirkland joined Pennzoil in 1967, served as executive vice president and member of the board of directors, and was instrumental in transforming Pennzoil into the formation that became Pogo Producing and spin-offs of United Gas and Entex. After leaving Pennzoil in 1978, he served as director of executive education at the Jones School of Management and Administration at Rice University, vice chairman of Sandefer Oil & Gas, Inc., executive vice president with Roy M. Huffington, Inc., chairman of Heritage Trust Co., director of MetFuel, Inc., chairman and chief executive officer of Antara Resources, Inc., chairman of Huntington Exploration, LLC. Kirkland had numerous ties to Houston's educational, cultural and charitable institutions.
His first marriage to Ann Wales Kirkland produced three children, and his second wife, Kate Sayen Kirkland, survived him. He died Jan. 21, 2008 and is buried at Glenwood Cemetery, Houston.
In 1999, two Houston based B-boy dance groups K.O.R.O (Knights of Rhythm Odyssey) and HAVIK (Having a Vicious Indestructible Krew) combined to create HaviKoro.
Their mission is to serve the underprivileged in the U.S. and around the world through their first-hand experience in dealing with life's tough challenges and difficult choices. The group's outreach focuses primarily on at-risk youth, offering positive messages via urban performance and sharing their testimonies and talents. In 2004, HaviKoro partnered with Houston's Association of American Voices and the U.S. State Department to perform in dozens of foreign countries, as the U.S. 'Hiplomats' representing the unique contribution of hip hop to American culture.
HaviKoro has competed in and won top level events around the world winning first place in the U.S. "Out for Fame" best crew contest (2001) and third place in the world "Battle of the Year" (Hannover, Germany, 2001).
The City of Houston honored HaviKoro and their contributions by proclaiming March 4, 2016 "HaviKoro Day."
Chad "Pimp C" Butler was a founding member of the rap group Underground Kingz (UGK) along with Bernard "Bun B" Freeman in 1987 in Port Arthur, Texas. They released their first album "Too Hard to Swallow" in 1991. In 2000, they were nominated for a Grammy for Best Rap Performance by a Duo or Group for "Big Pimpin" with Jay-Z. In 2002 Pimp C was arrested for violating his probation, stemming from an aggravated assault charge, and sentenced to eight years in prison. On December 30, 2005, Pimp C was released from prison and placed on parole. By July 11, 2006, he released his first solo album "Pimpalation." He reunited with Bun B and by 2007 released the first UGK album since his release from prison titled "Underground Kingz." Pimp C passed away in his hotel room on December 4, 2007. After his death Bun B released the final UGK album "UGK 4 Life," in which most of the recording was finished before Pimp C's death.
See online video clip "Pimp C: Real Legends Live On" at https://youtu.be/fr1XJDtGLdo. "In this mini doc shot in 2017 for Pimp C's posthumous induction into the CERCL Hip Hop Archival Collection at the Woodson Research Center in Rice University's Fondren Library, some of hip hop's royalty speak on the influence Chad Lamont 'Pimp C' Butler had on them and the hip hop culture."
Diana Poteat Stallings Hobby (1931-2014), the daughter of writer Laurence T. Stallings and his wife, Helen Poteat, was born in New York City. She graduated from Radcliffe College in 1952 and received her Ph.D. at Rice University in 1981. She was book editor of the Houston Post, a longtime editor of Studies in English Literature at Rice, and a lifelong champion of the humanities, libraries, and nature conservancy.
William Pettus Hobby, Jr. (1931- ), born in Houston and a 1953 Rice University graduate, was lieutenant governor of Texas, 1973-1991. He is the namesake son of a former Texas governor and of Oveta Culp Hobby, director of the Women's Army Corps and first secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare. William P. Hobby, Sr., and his wife were publishers of the Houston Post, of which their son was president, 1963-1983. He was chancellor of the University of Houston system, 1995-1997, and taught at the University of Texas at at Rice. Married in 1954, the Hobbys had four children: Laura Hobby Beckworth, Paul W. Hobby, Andrew P. Hobby, and Katherine Hobby Gibson.
Harry Perrelet Girard, singer, voice teacher and composer, was a native of St. Louis, MO, born June 17, 1875. His early education was at the Military Academy at Stanford, CT, and then graduated from Yale University in 1893 with a BA degree. His first musical instruction was from William H. Plaff and later studied composition with Horatio W. Parker of Yale and piano with Raphael Joseffy. His vocal training was from Arthur Hartington and singer Charles W. Santley of London. At thirteen Girard was soloist at Trinity Church Choir, New York, and at sixteen he was organist and choir-master at Zabriski Memorial Church. He then went to Christ Church, Rye, NY, and following at Archdeaconry Church, New York City. At twenty-five he became organist at St. John's Church, Seattle, WA, where he also organized a Symphony Society and was director of the Ladies' Musical Club and the Glee Club. During this period he completed his light opera, "The Alaskan," in which he starred at the Knickerbocker Theater, New York. He became a member of Augustin Daly's Musical Comedy company as leading baritone. He appeared in "The Runaway Girl" and in English grand opera in leading parts as Tonin in "Pagliacci," Alfeo in "Cavalleria Rusticana," Count di Luna in "Il Travatore," Escamillo in "Carmen," Plunkett in "Martha," and the title role in "Rigoletto." In 1908 he organized the Imperial Opera Company of New York and the in Los Angeles as executive director of the Institute of Vocal Physiology. Girard also produced a second opera, "The Maid of Manalay." Under the nom de plume Victor Kemp, he published "Trend of Time" and "Lyrical Idyl" among others.
The Vice Provost and University Librarian search committee consisted of Rice University staff and faculty, with the assistance of the Auerbach Associates search firm.
Rice University formed a search committee for the position of Vice President for Enrollment, which served from 1998-1999.
The General Announcements (GA), also known as the catalog, of Rice University contains course information as well as requirements for admission, for graduation, and for all the individual majors and degrees offered by the university. It is thus considered the contract between the university and the student.
Records concerning revisions show that planners have had in mind use of the GA not only by current students but also by high school students in the process of planning their next step in education and by the school guidance counselors advising them. Consequently, one of the goals of revision processes has been to present the academic information as fully as possible while keeping the publication a convenient-to-handle size and in weight under one pound for economy in postage.
Records regarding the production of GA prior to 1983 are not readily available. Between 1983 and 1986 production was accomplished by a freelance editor hired by the University Relations office (precursor to the Division of Public Affairs, of which the current Publications Office is a part). The Publications Office has produced GA since 1986; in 1994 Publications Editor Chris Dow took on supervision of the project.
One of the documents in the collection is the report of the eight-member faculty and staff General Announcements Review Committee, which, beginning in 1994, carried out a revision process designed to 1) improve the information contained in the book, 2) improve the book's ease of use, and 3) reduce the total amount of information contained so as to keep the book from exceeding the one-pound limit for reasonable postage rates. While the committee's reorganization of material resulted in a more comprehensive and easy-to-use volume, during the approval process, the space-saving measures were all but eliminated and thus do not appear in the 1997-98 version.
For the 2000-01, 2001-02, 2002-03, and 2003-04 editions modifications continued to be made for the sake of maintaining a weight of under one pound. These modifications ranged from eliminating information considered non-essential to using thinner paper, reducing font size, and reducing margins throughout.
For the 2005-06 edition a major re-design was undertaken, since it was felt that everything that could be removed without complaints from the various constituencies had been removed. The re-design consisted of using a different typeface, compressing spacing, and reducing margins. The Provost's Office also accomplished some condensing of portions of the introductory material and the sections for all students, undergraduates, and graduate students. The result was an overall savings of 70 pages over the 2003-04 edition and a weight of 15.5 ounces.
Christopher Dow's report of the sequence of changes made to GA in order to maintain a weight of under one pound ends with description of the 2005-06 edition.
GA continued to be published in hardcopy through the 2008-09 edition. Continuously since then, each year's edition has been published online only. It exists in pdf format, allowing downloading or printing any portion a user or interested party would wish to have as hardcopy.
In 1995, the Community Involvement Center (CIC) and Leadership Rice emerged as two branches of Rice University's community outreach effort. The CIC focused on introducing students to the Houston community and the world beyond through community service with programs like the International Service Project and Alternative Spring Break. Leadership Rice promoted leadership skills and opportunities among Rice students.
In 2006, under the auspices of the Quality Enhancement Plan, CIC and Leadership Rice came under the umbrella of the newly created Center for Civic Engagement (CCE). In 2013, CCE became the Center for Civic Leadership (CCL). Its current mission is "foster engaged citizenship through integrated curricular and experiential learning opportunities, and to cultivate mutually beneficial university-community partnerships that promote positive, sustainable change in Houston, the United States, and around the world."
Sources used: https://ccl.rice.edu/about-us/
Perhaps no other event so represented Rice's emerging role as a national, even international, institution, than its being chosen to host the 1990 Economic Summit of the Industrialized Nations. For three days in July heads of delegations from the United States, Great Britain, Germany, France, Italy, Japan, Canada, and the European Economic Community held talks at Rice, covered by thousands of journalists and communicated to the world. Rice had long hosted major world figures—General Pershing; Presidents (or presidents-to-be) Taft, Hoover, Eisenhower, Kennedy (announcing the goal of going to the moon), Johnson, Carter, Reagan; Sir Harold Wilson; Prince Philip; and the Dalai Lama suggest the range of famous visitors. But never had such an assemblage appeared at one time as during the Economic Summit. Alumni around the globe were thrilled to see on television world political leaders walking through the familiar arches of Lovett Hall.
Excerpted from Dr. John Boles' A University So Conceived: A Brief History of Rice (Revised Edition), 1997, p. 81.
Mary Voswinkel joined the Rice University Police Department in 1978 as assistant chief of police. She served as Chief of Police for 14 years before retiring in 1999. She received the 1992 Administrator of the Year Award from the university and was recognized by the Board of Trustees. She was the first female president for the Texas-New Mexico Association of Colleges and Universities.
Academic life at Rice University is supported by generous donations to the university. In some cases, such gifts are made to support chairs, scholarships and lectureships. Printed scrolls are created to publicly recognize donors or the persons for whom the donations were made.
These papers record committee work done concerning possible ways of celebrating either the one hundredth anniversary of the charter establishing Rice Institute or the seventy-fifth anniversary of the opening of classes, or both. The one hundredth anniversary of the charter would occur in the spring of 1991, and the seventy-fifth anniversary of the actual opening, in October 1987. It was decided that during the entire academic year of 1990-91, a major celebration commemorating the centennial of the signing of the Charter of Incorporation of W. M. Rice Institute would take place. A Centennial Celebration Committee was formed with Dr. Harold E. Rorschach, Jr., appointed as chair. In his October 14, 1987, charge to the committee, President George Rupp wrote, "The centennial celebration should involve all segments of the Rice community—alumni, faculty, staff, students—and the larger community beyond. It should include a variety of celebrative events—lectures, symposia, concerts, exhibits, dinners, social occasions—with the purpose of indicating the breadth of activities associated with Rice."
The Centennial Committee came to include two trustees, two academic coordinators, two operational coordinators, and chairs of subcommittees for symposia, alumni activities, student activities, ceremony, community relations, and facilities. Ex-officio members were President Rupp and four other members of the administration or staff.
The first meeting of a smaller steering committee was held Saturday April 9, 1988, at 9 a. m. in the Founder's Room on the second floor of Lovett Hall. It was agreed that regular meetings of this group would be scheduled at the rate of about one per month. The second meeting took place on May 19, at which time agreement was reached on six goals for the celebration:
1. Bring people to the campus (alumni, community, nation);
2. Provide a stimulating and unifying intellectual atmosphere;
3. Attract favorable media coverage;
4. Provide a setting for fund raising, either general or for specific projects;
5. Not overload the calendar; and
6. Unify the alumni through an outreach program.
The steering committee next met on June 29. Discussion centered on planning priorities, preliminary cost estimates for various activities, and subcommittee appointments. On July 6 Chairman Rorschach sent a memo to all department chairs informing them of the intended Charter Centennial Celebration being planned for 1990-91 and inviting them to submit ideas for activities like seminars, colloquia, and visiting speakers that would be enhanced with funds from the Centennial Committee.
By October 6 a steering committee meeting took place for the purpose of discussing ideas generated by the various subcommittees and the departments. This was to be in preparation for developing a budget. Another point to be discussed was the scope of the celebration, alternatives being a series of activities spread over an entire year, or a few days of concentrated activities in the manner of a celebration at Harvard that this committee had heard of.
The steering committee in December was awaiting "guidance from the board as to the desired scope of the celebration." The goal at this point was to place in the hands of the president and the board, early in the second semester, a proposal of preliminary planning and budget estimates.
The steering committee meeting at which specific figures for all of the suggested activities were gathered together took place on April 5, 1989. Cost estimates organized under four headings were $100 thousand for ceremonial expenses, $200 thousand for symposia, $100 thousand for special events, and $200 thousand for staffing, publicity, and media. Allowing an additional $100 thousand as a contingency and inflation factor brought the total to $700 thousand for what the planners felt would be a "significant celebration."
It appears that when the steering committee's report on the estimated costs of the planned activities was presented to President Rupp, his response on August 31 was an offer of $50 thousand as seed money (implying that soliciting would be required to raise more). When the steering committee met on September 7, the members agreed to respond to the president that they considered it impractical to try to raise funds with the offered seed money so close in time to the centennial year. They proposed that instead, the offered $50 thousand should be used to fund department proposals and one of the suggested symposia, the one most desirable to President Rupp.
On November 2, 1989 the president met with the steering committee and discussed what was referred to as "the fund raising situation," apparently factors that limited what could be done to supply what was needed for the expansive program of activities initially proposed. President Rupp told the subcommittee that in the fall of 1990 the Rice campus would be the location of the international "Economic Summit." A conclusion was that the Charter Centennial Celebration should consist of one symposium in early spring of 1991, and perhaps a lecture series on the history of Rice architecture, an "expanded" Rice Associates dinner, and other ways of engaging alumni and the Houston community.
The steering committee met again on March 30, 1990, covering topics like a possible art show featuring drawings of Rice buildings, a "community relations" dinner for guests of President Rupp, and presentations on Rice history by Professor Joe Thomas and Professor George Williams.
The last record of a steering committee meeting is dated June 25, 1990. Topics were the form that the celebratory dinner should take and the intended audience for presentations on student history. The meeting apparently ended with a decision that these events would occur in 1991.
The Shepherd School Dean Search Committee conducted its business between 2002 and 2003, with successful candidate Robert Yekovich being appointed as Rice's Dean of the Shepherd School of Music in 2003.
 As a student at University of Houston, Don Sanders began writing and composing his own music in 1963. He eventually joined the growing folk scene at Anderson Fair Retail Restaurant. He has performed at Liberty Hall, Kerville Folk Festival, Sand Mountain Coffee House, the Old Quarter, the Grand 1894 Opera House, and Hofhienz Pavillion. Sanders started Mean N' Low Records in 1972 as a vehicle to release his own albums, a self-titled 12", "Extended Play," and "Limited Edition." He has also released the albums "El Mosquito in My Kitchen" (2006) and "Limelight" (2015). Throughout the 1970s and 1980s, he played clubs and at universities in Texas. He was a favorite at Texas A & M and was the influence for Lyle Lovett's "This Old Porch." Lovett even interview him for the school's newspaper. During this time, he began teaching music to children at the Gatesville School for Boys and elementary schools in the North Forest School District. He still performs and teaches music to children through workshops.
At Lamar High School in Houston, TX in the early 1970s, two friends, Craig Calvert and Cris "Ezra" Idlet started a duo called Neat Stuff. It was short lived. Craig and Ezra went their separate ways by the end of the summer of 1972. In 1973 they added classmate Connie Mims to form a trio. Wheatfield, began playing country-tinged folk music, mainly covers, in small venues like Tanney's and Steak and Ale.
In 1974, they added Bob Russell, string bass, who they met after a trip to the Virgin Islands. The following year Wheatfield began making a name for themselves in Houston, playing at universities, like Rice and University of Houston, as well as making appearances on local TV.
By 1974, Wheatfield added another musician, Damian Hevia, drums/percussion. That year, they performed at Liberty Hall and the Kerrville Folk Festival.
1976 was the year that Wheatfield made changes to its sound and its name. They began adding electric instruments and added more of a jazz twist to their sound. After receiving a letter from an Oregon band that claimed to own the name "Wheatfield," the band changed theirs to St. Elmo's Fire. At the time, they were working with James Clouser of the Houston Ballet to score the rock ballet "Caliban." The ballet based on Shakespeare's "The Tempest" influenced their new name. The ballet premiered in May 1976 to rave reviews and later travelled to Dallas and Chicago. It even came back to Jones Hall the following year.
St. Elmo's Fire enjoyed other successes that year. Notably, they performed on the newly begun "Austin City Limits" TV show, toured in Colorado, and played at Miller Outdoor Theater alongside the first cast of "Saturday Night Live." In the fall, Bob Russell left the band and Keith Grimwood replaced him on bass and vocals.
Throughout the next year, the band continued to tour. They scored another rock ballet for Clouser, "Rasputin," which premiered in April 1977. They attended the NECCA convention in San Antonio to increase their national publicity. By the next year, they kept booking gigs across Texas and beyond as well performed at Houston's Sidewalk Symphony, Rockefeller's, and the Texas Opry House.
Despite all of this success, St. Elmo's Fire never secured a recording contract from a major music label, which limited their options for venues and TV performances. Eventually, this fact took a toll on the band. Craig Calvert left in July 1979 and was replaced by Mike Sunjka. The band disbanded later that year.
In the 1980s-1990s, St. Elmo's Fire reunited for gigs at Fitzgerald's and other places in Houston. Around 2004, Craig Calvert, Ezra Idlet, Connie Mims, and Keith Grimwood officially reunited as Wheatfield and released albums in 2004, 2008 and 2014. They play shows throughout Texas, Arkansas and Missouri.
During the 1960s-1980s, Houston, TX had a vibrant folk scene. Local musicians and those from other parts of Texas and the U.S. socialized and played at a variety of music establishments around the city, including Anderson Fair Retail Restaurant, Sand Mountain Coffeehouse, Liberty Hall, The Old Quarter, Theodore's and Corky's. This scene spawned many musicians, Townes Van Zandt, Guy Clark, Robert Earl Keen, Nanci Griffith, Lynn Langham, Wrecks Bell, Eric Taylor, John Vandiver, Danny Everitt, Vince Bell, Richard Dobson, Don Sanders, Wheatfield/St. Elmo's Fire, Dogtooth Violet, Bill Cade, Lyle Lovett, and many more.
The music venue, Rockefeller's, began as way to cover the renovation costs of the historic Citizens/Heights State Bank building on 3620 Washington Avenue in Houston. In the beginning, Sanford and Susan Criner envisioned a performance space for local talent. Early on, they realized that local acts were not enough to fill the hall. The Criners turned to booking jazz acts and made a trip to Los Angeles to promote the venue to bigger names. The trip was incredibly successful.
From 1979 to 1997, Rockefeller's hosted great performers from a variety of genres: blues, jazz, rock, country, and comedy. Count Basie, Dizzy Gillespie, Ella Fitzgerald, James Brown, John Lee Hooker, Ray Charles, Jerry Lee Lewis, Carl Perkins, Fats Domino, Merle Haggard, Waylon Jennings, Chet Atkins, Garth Brooks, Bonnie Raitt, the Dixie Chicks, Pee-wee Herman, Bill Hicks, and Timothy Leary all graced the stage. While ownership of Rockefeller's changed hands during that time, the venue always thrived on presenting Houston with a wide mix of talent.
As for the renovation, Taft Architects and construction manager Matt Pasternak headed up the project. The revitalized building, originally designed by Joseph Finger, won a Texas Society of Architects Honor Award for historical preservation.
Founded at Rice University in the early 1970s, the Black Students' Union created a safe, welcoming environment for black students at Rice.
Starting in 1972, the Black Students' Union worked with the administration to start a B.S.U. Center. This morphed into the Office of Multicultural Affairs, which housed the center.
By 1989, the Black Student Association provided another club for black students on campus. In the mid 1990s, the Black Students' Union combined with the Black Student Association. 
The Vietnamese Student Association began around 1983. Their major events include the fall College Leadership Workshop and the spring Cultural Showcase.
Rice Alliance for Mental Health Awareness club, formerly called Active Minds, began at Rice in 2010. The organization acts as a peer resource on behalf of the Student Wellbeing Office. Their goal is to educate the student body about mental health issues.
The Rice Computer Science Club (CS Club) started around 2009. Currently, the organization holds the annual HackRice event. Students over 18 travel to Rice University for a weekend, form teams, create a software project, and present their work for judgement and to win prizes. The event began in 2012.
Rice University was founded in 1891 and opened in 1912. The memorabilia in this collection reflects many aspects of the university's history, from social life, academic life, athletics, administration, architectural elements, symbols such as the seal and shield.
The donor describes blankets like this one being awarded to seniors who had been in the Marching Owl Band (MOB) for four years. Todd Anthony Shaw (born April 28, 1966), better known by the stage name Too Short (stylized as Too $hort), is an American rapper, producer, and actor. He is best known for his hit songs like "The Ghetto" and "Blow the Whistle". Too Short is one of the very few musicians to have been able to collaborate with both TuPac and The Notorious B.I.G. during the height of their careers. Too Short released two films as well, 2001's Too Short Uncensored and Titty City.
Best known as president of the Confederacy during the American Civil War, Jefferson Davis served in the Mexican War, in the House of Representatives and the Senate, and was secretary of war under Franklin Pierce. After the Civil War he became a symbol of the Lost Cause.
The Papers of Jefferson Davis, a documentary editing project based at Rice University in Houston, Texas, has prepared (1971-2015) a 14-volume edition of his letters and speeches, published by LSU Press.
DePelchin Children's Center, founded in 1892 in Houston, TX by Kezia Payne DePelchin as DePelchin Faith Home, was chartered on March 24, 1893. The home began with three young boys in the home of Agnes Perry at 2500 Washington Ave. It moved to the corner of Chenevert & Pierce Streets in 1899 to accommodate a growing number of children, followed in 1913 to 2700 Albany Street @ Tuam. The institute's charter was renewed in 1928 with a name change to DePelchin Faith Home and Children's Bureau to extend to the general care of children including foster home service, adoption, and child protective services. The name was changed again to DePelchin Children's Center in 1983 to include counseling, post-adoption services, maternity care, parent-preparation, and special education. The center outgrew its Albany Street location in 1938 and relocated to Shepherd & Memorial Drive, with new facilities at the same location in 2002.
Kezia Payne DePelchin, founder of the institution, was born on July 23, 1828 to Catherine and Abraham Payne in the Madeira Islands of Portugal. Her mother died in 1833 and her father moved the family to America in 1836, with Galveston, Texas as the destination in 1837. A yellow fever outbreak saw several sisters return to Madeira, but several siblings and her father did not survive. Kezia and her governess moved to Houston in 1841 where Kezia taught music in Houston's first public schools. She married Adolf DePelchin in 1862, but within a year they separated and never divorced. Kezia acquired immunity to yellow fever and nursed its victims in Houston and then in Memphis, TN and Senatobia, MS between 1878 and 1879. She returned to Houston and became the first matron of Bayland Orphan's Home for Boys between ages 6 and 12. In 1892 she was approached with three orphan boys too young to be accepted by Bayland, and asked friend Agnes Perry to supply a room for the boys' care. The DePelchin Faith Home was established, but Kezia died soon after on Jan. 13, 1893.
Founded in 2015, the Oral History Project's goal is to collect, preserve, and make available the experiences of at least 100 long term survivors, physicians, activists, religious and political leaders and others impacted by HIV / AIDS epidemic in Houston, Harris County and Southeast Texas, with special emphasis on those who experienced the early years of the epidemic. Founding partners of the project include Legacy Community Health, Montrose Center, and the Woodson Research Center, Rice University. It is the policy of The oH Project to redact the names of third parties in reference to their HIV / AIDS status or sexual orientation unless The oH Project has written consent from the third party to be named or proof that the person has shared his or her HIV / AIDS status and/or sexual orientation in a public record. Interviewee donor agreements which document the interviewee's agreement for internet access of their interview are maintained by the Woodson Research Center.
Reginald Moore, of Sugar Land, Texas, is an historian and has a certification in Community Economic Development from the College of Biblical Studies. He is also a community activist, and has a particular interest in prison reform and prison re-entry into society. He served as a correctional officer in the Texas Department of Corrections, 1985-1988. Mr. Moore worked in the Beauford H. Jester I and III Units, a prison farm located in unincorporated Fort Bend County, Texas. Jester I Farm was the first built by the state at this site, and was known as the Old Harlem Farm. Although convict leasing as a practice is believed to have begun informally in 1872, the State of Texas sanctioned the contract to lease the penal system to the private firm of Ed H. Cunningham and L.A. Ellis (Cunningham and Ellis) in 1878. In 1883, the land and system reverted from private to state control. While working at this site, Mr. Moore became interested in the history of the Flanagan House (former warden's house) and then in the Central Unit of the prison. Over time, this interest grew and became a major research area for Mr. Moore, who went on to found and chair the Texas Slave Descendants' Society(TSDS) in the early 2000's. Through the TSDS and on his own, Mr. Moore, has worked to gain recognition for the past abuses associated with Sugar Land's convict leasing system. Mr. Moore serves as a member of the RIP Guardian program for the Imperial Prison Cemetery.
Additionally, Mr. Moore has worked to bring attention to other topics such as modern day prison reform, mis-use of public funds, and preservation of Houston's historically African American wards and churches.
Resources of interest: CNN film "American Jail" https://www.cnn.com/shows/american-jail-film, access July 3, 2018
Edwin J. Fosha (1826-1864) joined the 91st Illinois Infantry at Camp Butler, Ill. on September 8, 1862 leaving his wife, Rebecca, and his 2 daughters (Frances and Eva) in Morris, Illinois. His military service would take him to Kentucky, Missouri, Louisiana, and Brownsville, Texas. He was captured with his regiment in Kentucky in December 1862. He was on duty as paroled prisoner in Benton Barracks, Missouri until July 1863. He traveled with his regiment south to New Orleans, LA., and eventually to Brownsville, Texas. He died in the Regimetal Hospital from acute dysentery in Brownsville, Texas on March 25, 1864.
Pierre Jalbert (b. 1967) served as Composer-in-Residence with the Los Angeles Chamber Orchestra from 2002 - 2005 and is currently Professor of Composition and Theory at Rice University's Shepherd School of Music in Houston. Earning widespread notice for his richly colored and superbly crafted scores, Jalbert has developed a musical language that is engaging, expressive, and deeply personal. Among his many honors are the Rome Prize, the BBC Masterprize, and most recently, the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center's 2007 Stoeger Award, given biennially "in recognition of significant contributions to the chamber music repertory."
His music has been performed throughout the United States and abroad, including four Carnegie Hall performances of his orchestral music, one of the more recent being the Houston Symphony's premiere of his orchestral work, big sky, in 2006. Other major works for orchestra include In Aeternam (2000), performed by the London Symphony Orchestra, Symphonia Sacra (2001), written for the California Symphony; Chamber Symphony (2004), commissioned by the Los Angeles Chamber Orchestra, and Fire and Ice (2007), commissioned for the Oakland East Bay, Marin, and Santa Rosa Symphonies through Meet the Composer Foundation's MAGNUM OPUS Project. He has also served as Composer-in-Residence with the California Symphony (1999-2002), and Music in the Loft in Chicago (2003). Select commissions and performances include those of the Ying, Borromeo, Maia, Enso, Chiara, and Escher String Quartets; violinist Midori; and the symphony orchestras of London, Budapest, Seattle, Houston, Fort Worth, Colorado, and Albany among others.
Jalbert serves as one of the artistic directors of Musiqa, a Houston-based contemporary chamber ensemble, and his teaching specialties include Composition, Orchestration, Score Reading, and Aural Skills. Current projects include works for the Vermont Symphony, the Pittsburgh New Music Ensemble, and the Emerson String Quartet.
(Biography taken from Jalbert's Shepherd School of Music website)
Arthur Gottschalk attended the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor, receiving a Bachelor of Music degree in Music Composition, a Master of Arts degree in Music Composition and English Literature, and his Doctorate in Music Composition, studying with William Bolcom, Ross Lee Finney, and Leslie Bassett. He is currently a Professor at Rice University's Shepherd School of Music, where he served as Chair of the Department of Music Theory and Composition until 2009. He founded the university's electronic and computer music laboratories, and was the Director of the laboratories until 2002.
"Rapturous, argumentative, and prickly" (Gramophone Magazine), and "fascinatingly strange" (BBC Music Magazine), composer Arthur Gottschalk accepted an invitation as Visiting Artist at the American Academy in Rome in 2016, and The Association of Rice Alumni honored him with its Meritorious Service Award, the highest honor for a non-graduate of Rice University. Among many other awards, his Concerto for Violin and Symphonic Winds won First Prize in the XXV Concorso Internazionale di Composizione Originale (Italy), and in 2011 he was awarded the prestigious Bogliasco Fellowship for further work in Italy. Other awards include the Charles Ives Prize of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, the 2014 Gold Medal for his Sonata for Cello: In Memoriam and the 2015 Gold Medal, Best of Show, and Recording of the Year from the Global Music Awards for his Requiem: For The Living. Residencies include the Columbia-Princeton Electronic Music Center, the Piccolo Spoleto Festival, and the Atlantic Center for the Arts.
(Biography taken from Gottschalk's Shepherd School of Music website)
Floyd Swansey Edmiston was born in Choudrant, LA, on April 10, 1894. He enlisted in the United States Army June 5, 1917, listing his occupation as "farmer." At the war's end he married, became a soil conservationist, an agricultural agent in Mansfield, LA, completed college and, at the start of the Second World War, was employed by Louisiana State University in the Agricultural Extension Department. He died April 10, 1948.
The acquisition by Rice University of the Michael Heizer sculpture 45°, 90°, 180° began in a conversation between Mrs. George R. Brown and Chairman of the Art Department William Camfield when they were both members of a committee at the Museum of Fine Arts Houston around 1982. Mrs. Brown told Camfield that she and her husband wanted to commission some art for Rice and asked if he would help them do that. Mrs. Brown authorized the setting up of an account with funds from her estate, and a faculty advisory committee was formed to select the artist who would be commissioned to create the Brown gift. Among the criteria guiding selection were that the artist be a living American already established as among the outstanding sculptors of our time and that the sculpture created might be related to engineering.
A proposal considered to fulfill these and other criteria well was submitted by Michael Heizer with the title 45°, 90°, 180°. The intended work was to consist of very large granite stones supported by steel frames at angles of 45°, 90°, and 180°. Three seventy-ton slabs of Texas granite were quarried at Marble Falls and transported to Houston on three 36-wheel flatbed trucks in the first week of December 1984. The chosen site, the quadrangle of the Brown School of Engineering, had been prepared in October and November by the setting of concrete pedestals. Then on December 8 and 9 the granite slabs were put in place. One distinction of the sculpture is that its component slabs are among the largest natural objects to be transported by modern man.
Glenda Joe is a Chinese-Irish-Texan business owner, activist, and Asian festival director. She was born in Houston in 1954, where the Joe family has lived for several generations after immigrating from China in 1882. Glenda organized her first civil rights rally at age 13 and has since been a prominent activist for the Asian-American community in Houston, serving as a consultant for Asian issues in the Houston Police Department, writing the Asian Merchant's Handbook to reduce interracial conflict in Asian-owned stores, and investigating hate crimes against Asians, to name a few. Her business, Great Wall Enterprises, is dedicated to helping Asian-Americans as well; it has done advertising and public awareness campaigns (raising awareness of immunizations, voting, the census) targeted to Asians, especially recent immigrants. In 1991, Glenda was the first Asian-American to run for Houston City Council; she also ran in 1993 but did lost both times. Glenda has also been a strong promoter of Asian arts in Houston. She first got involved in HAAFA in 1980 at age 26 and eventually became its executive director. She has led HAAFA in running the Houston Asian American Festival 1980-2007, Lunar New Year Houston 2008-present, the Asian Performing Arts Gala, and other cultural programs at Houston schools and universities. References: http://www.texashighways.com/culture-lifestyle/item/8268-extraordinary-texans-16 http://www.wbur.org/npr/195909643/tx2020-houston-racial-ethnic-diversity-americas-future
The Houston Asian American Festival Association was founded in 1980 by Bill Joe (Glenda Joe's uncle), Bill & Eleanor Der Bing, Daniel & Akiko Watanabe, Dulal Datta, Phon Nguyen, CK Kim & Glenda Joe. In 1982, the project secured its formal nonprofit corporation status and has been led by various board members: Dr. Daniel Watanabe, Michael Chou, Yani Rose Keo, Rathna Kumar, Phan Duy, and Tony Joe Yeung. Glenda Joe has served as Executive Director. Its mission is to preserve, present and promote authentic Asian cultural arts in free admission annual events for the City of Houston. HAAFA has presented Houston's Asian American Festival (AAF) 1980-2007, and Lunar New Year Houston (LNYH) 2008-present. AAF and LNYH are pan-Asian celebrations, bringing together the performers, artists, and cuisines of many Asian countries including China, Japan, Vietnam, the Philippines, and the Pacific Islands. According to Glenda Joe: "HAAFA was organized in response to President Jimmy Carter's first proclamation of Asian Pacific American Heritage Week in 1980. It was the first time Asians from all ethnicities convened to work for common cause in Houston. It was the catalyst for pan-Asian organizing around other civic and social issues affecting all Asians in Houston." Between 1980 and 1985, venues for Houston's AAF were: Westbury Square, Sharpstown Center, Fonde Recreational Center. In 1985, Miller Theatre's general invited AAF to present pan-Asian arts annually. It was the first Asian cultural arts programming presented at Miller Theatre. It was the only pan Asian cultural arts presented on Miller Theatre stage until 1996. In 2006, Miller Theatre leadership changed. The new management, in a highly criticized action, singled out Houston's AAF for a "test case" for clearing out ethnic community arts from their annual schedule. While AAF lost its battle to present at Miler Theatre, AAF's legal protests and civic action precluded Miller Theatre from a wholesale ethnic cleansing of other small arts groups in its annual performance schedule. By 2007, appreciation and understanding of Asian cultural arts and the maturation of small arts groups mentored by AAF was a mission accomplished.
Described as being "imaginative and with a feel for adventure," George Soloman Cohen was known for his generosity to the city of Houston and Rice University. He and his father bought Foley Bros. Department store from the Foley brothers in 1917 and developed it into one of the state's leading retailers. He served in various capacities for the Houston Museum of Fine Arts, Houston Symphony Society, Houston Community Chest, Young Men's Business League of Houston, and was instrumental in developing the first airline connections for the city as well as bringing the first passenger liner to Houston from Europe in 1925. He also served on the city's Generasl Arrangements Committee for the Democratic National Convention held in Houston in 1928. Cohen was born in Galveston in 1885 and started at age 10 working at his father's store while either shipping out during summers on steamers sailing between Galveston and New York or on fishing boats off the west coast of the Yucatan Penisula of Mexico. He attended Ball High School in Galveston and Peeksill Military Academy in New York, but left to attend classes on advertising, window dressing, bookkeeping and accounting while working for many department stores before returning to Galveston in 1904. He married the former Esther Regina Meyer of Galvestion in 1921, and together made unrestricted gifts to Rice directed toward loans and scholarships, for an elevator for the football stadium. His largest gift was the faculty club building in 1927, with a maintenance and remodeling fund and addition of a new wing in 1959. Cohen died in 1971.
Carlos Salzedo (1885-1961) was a French harpist, pianist, composer and conductor. He began playing piano by the age of three, and wrote and published his first composition, a polka called Moustique (Mosquito), when he was five years old. At twelve years old he began studying the harp, and within a year was accepted as a harp student in the Paris Conservatoire. In 1909, Arturo Toscanini invited Salzedo to play in the orchestra of the Metropolitan Opera, and Salzedo moved to New York. From the 1920s onward, Salzedo appeared regularly as a soloist with orchestras such as the Philadelphia Orchestra, and on tour as a recitalist, harp ensemble leader and flute-harp-cello trio member. Salzedo is regarded by many as one of history's greatest harpists, and he was a highly regarded pianist, conductor, and teacher as well. His transcriptions and compositions were original and well abreast of the latest musical developments. He was a progressive spirit, seeking new tonal resources in the improved harp of his day manufactured by Lyon & Healy. Salzedo taught hundreds of students during his career, and inspired other composers with his unique works and style of playing.
Liberty Hall was a music venue located in downtown Houston, Texas from 1971 to 1978. It was originally owned and operated by Michael Condray, Lynda Herrera, and Ryan Trimble. Hosting a wide variety of performers, including Bruce Springsteen, ZZ Top, The Velvet Underground, The Ramones, Lightnin' Hopkins, Big Mama Thornton, and many more, it was known for its low admittance prices of sometimes only two dollars for nationally known entertainers.
Before Liberty Hall, Condray and George Banks, the future graphic illustrator of Liberty Hall posters, opened Jubilee Hall which became the Family Hand, a restaurant and entertainment venue. The restaurant was known for its red beans and rice, prepared by Thera Neumann, the African-American female chef. When Condray began looking for a new location to open with Herrera and Trimble, Neumann found the building that would become Liberty Hall. The building was originally a church built in the 1940s and later became the American Legion Post 391. On March 4, 1971, it opened as Liberty Hall.
Besides the many musicians that performed at Liberty Hall, the venue hosted plays and comedy performances. Cheech and Chong performed for a completely sold out four-night stand for two dollars a ticket. Cheech and Chong credit Liberty Hall for their success. Liberty Hall also hosted rock opera director C. C. Courtney's play "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" from March 23 to April 22, 1972. At the time, it was the longest running play in the history of Houston.
In 1974, Herrera left Liberty Hall with Condray following in 1975. Trimble stayed on until the venue closed in 1978. The building that was once Liberty Hall was soon demolished after its closing. Today, a parking lot near the Toyota Center sits where Liberty Hall once was.
Text borrowed from the "Liberty Hall (Houston, Texas)" Wikipedia page written by Woodson staff member Claire Weddle.
Dee Brown, Bruce Bryant, and Charlie Hargrave opened the Sweetheart of Texas Concert Hall and Saloon in December 1974. It closed in the fall of 1975. The Houston venue located at 120 Milam in the Buffalo Bayou Fleamart hosted a variety of acts including Don Sanders, Ramblin' Jack Elliott, Dogtooth Violet, Eric Taylor, Lucinda Williams, among others.
Starting with "Boys Fom Houston: The Spirit and Image of Our Music," Vicki Welch Ayo wrote about the varied Houston music scenes of the 1960s-1970s. She and fellow writer William C. DeLaVergne followed it up with "Boys From Houston II: Deep in the Heart." In 2016, Ayo published a third book in the series, "Boys From Houston III: Groove-In." The books aim to chronicle Houston's and by extension the region's thriving music scenes and their affects on the community.
Started in June 1951 by John Avery Lomax, Jr., Ed Badeaux, Howie Porper, Chester Bower, and Harold Belikoff, the Houston Folklore Society held their early meetings at the Jewish Community Center, the Downtown YMCA, and Hermann Park Pavilion. These meetings consisted of song swaps, folk dancing, and folk song concerts in conjunction with the Jewish Community Center. Early on, they also sponsored concerts by Pete Seeger, Doc Watson, and Lester Flatt and Earl Scruggs and the Foggy Mountain Boys.
In April 1988, the society changed its name to the Houston Folklore and Folk Music Society. The group began using a shortened version of that name, the Houston Folklore and Music Society on a consistent basis in 1990, though the shortened name had been officially incorporated by July 1988.
By June 1966, the society began publishing a newsletter that contained event information and articles about folk music. By 1968, the newsletter changed its name from the "Houston Folklore Bulletin" to the "Cotton Patch Rag."
Over the years, the society also began formalizing their events. During the 1980s, they held monthly pickin' parties, which still continue. In 1980, they started hosting concerts, which turned into Second Saturday Concerts at the West University Community Center. These have continued to this day with a variety of national and regional folk musicians performing. Moreover, they hold meetings on the first Monday of the month at the Jewish Community Center, where the group handles business matters and runs a song circle.
For more information about the society, please visit their website: houstonfolkmusic.org.
Richard G. Park, Jr.'s 7th Division was mustered into service at Mt. Gretna, Pennsylvania, in 1916 and was composed of elements of the Pennsylvania National Guard and Guard units from neighboring states. It was deployed to El Paso in June 1916 to serve along the Mexican border as the regular army Punitive Expedition entered Mexico. Elements of the division began to return to Pennsylvania in December and early 1917 their mustering out was halted by the coming of the First World War.
The Jester Lounge opened in Houston on 2509 Midlane, which is now roughly 4608 Westheimer in 1961. Owned by Mac Webster, the folk club featured national touring acts, as well as a stable of local musicians, referred to as the the Jester players. They included, Lightnin' Hopkins, Guy Clark, K.T. Oslin, Frank Davis, Ken and Judy, Vivian and Scott Holtzman, and Sarah Wiggins. As the great folk scare of the early 1960s gave way to The Beatles, The Jester Lounge closed its doors in 1966.
Growing up in Houston, George Ensle began taking guitar lessons at the age of 14. A few years later, his guitar teacher introduced him to Houston's folk club scene. He moved to Austin to attend the University of Texas in the fall of 1966. The following summer he began playing at Sand Mountain Coffee House where he befriended Townes Van Zandt, Guy Clark, Carolyn Hester, among others.
In the 1970s, he made Austin his permanent home. He toured the college circuit with Nanci Griffith. He also played in venues across the state of Texas, including Houston's Anderson Fair, the University of Houston Coffee House, and the Old Quarter. Towards the end of the decade, he began teaching music in economically disadvantaged schools as part of a Texas Commission for the Arts and the National Endowment for the Arts program.
Ensle released his first full length album in 1980 entitled, "Head On." He followed this up with "Heartwood" (1990), "One Gentle Hand: A Collection" (1999), "Live Set" (2006), "Build a Bridge" (2008), and "Small Town Sundown" (2012), and CD and DVD "Live from the Brauntex" (2013).
Ensle continues to play throughout Texas and runs the weekly Songwriters Showcase at Poodie's Roadhouse in Spicewood, TX.
The Banded Geckos formed in 1979. The original line-up consisted of Fred McDonough, Tim Taylor, and Evelyne Taylor. After McDonough left the band in 1981, Russell Fory and Gary Young joined. Over the course of 1983 into 1984, the band recorded their first album at Loma Ranch Studios in Fredericksburg, TX, entitled "The Banded Geckos."
After Gary Young moved on, Fory and the Taylors continued as a trio. With the addition of Charlie Arruda in 1988, the band recorded "Gecko Greetings," a Christmas album. They began work on "Art Gecko" in 1989, releasing it in 1990. In 1992, Arruda moved to Pennsylvania and Robert Knetsch joined the band.
In 1993, the Taylors relocated to Santa Fe, New Mexico and began recording "Gecoupage" in 1994 with Russell Fory, Robert Knetsch, Grey Howell, and Pat Longmire, releasing it in 1995. In 2000, the Taylors and Grey Howell released "Gecko Canyon."
Over the years, The Banded Geckos performed at the Kerrville Folk Festival, Anderson Fair, Mucky Duck, Uncle Calvin's, Cactus Cafe and other venues throughout Texas, New Mexico, and beyond.
With over 15 years experience as both a Graphic Designer and Photographer, Mike Frost has defined the image and branding of rap/hip-hop albums in Texas an arguably the South. He started out designing event fliers in the Punk and electronic music communities of Houston in the mid 90s. Shortly after learning one of the first releases of Adobe's Photoshop, many of his friends started pursuing their music careers. Most notable were; Mike Jones, Chamillionaire, Paul Wall, Devin the Dude, Slim Thug, Z-Ro, and Trae. With Mike, Cham, and Paul certifying platinum and Cham's Grammy, Frost's position as the go to man for graphic design, web development, and photography was solidified. He is currently Creative Director for Swisha House and his own boutique creative agency, SLFEMP. He created SLFEMP as a means to bring multifaceted and talented artists together to collaborate on album packaging, press, commercial, web development, and fine-art projects. His most recent Credits include: Slim Thug The Boss of all Bosses, Paul Wall The Fast Life, and photography and design for Microsoft's Zune advertisements featuring Common. (excerpted from SLFEMP "About" page Facebook, https://www.facebook.com/pg/SLFEMP713/about/, accessed March 17, 2017)
See online video on Mike Frost's career path in graphic design, at https://youtu.be/dL1urXoHvvU. Guest appearances are: G Dash, ESG, Slim Thug, Mike Frost, Brandon Holley.
The committee consisted of W.E. Gordon, Carey Croneis, Virgil Topazio, and James Sims, and was authorized to act on any matter requiring presidential authority until a new president assumed office. The committee functioned until March 20, 1969 when Frank Vandiver was appointed "Acting President" by the Board of Governors.
George Rufus Miner, Jr. was born in Dallas on Dec. 31, 1926, and grew up in Lake Charles, Louisiana, interrupting his college career to serve in the navy for two years before graduating from Rice Institute in 1950. He majored in mechanical engineering and was a varsity football player. Married to Elaine Dederick (1930-2007) for fifty-two years, he had six children. After graduation, Miner joined his father-in-law's Houston-based construction company, becoming president and owner in 1955 and later changed the firm's name to Miner-Dederick. The company was involved in the construction of a number of Houston landmarks and several campus buildings. For decades, Miner was deeply involved in fund raising and alumni affairs. He served two years on the board of governors, was president of the alumni association, endowed several scholarships, was inducted into the Athletic Hall of Fame, was named an outstanding engineering alumnus, and in 1995 won the gold medal for his many contributions to the university. He died on Feb. 28, 2002, in Houston, and is buried in Forest Park Lawndale Cemetery.
Thomas Ellis Daley (1907-1973), born in Arizona, graduated from and was editor of the Rice University yearbook in 1929. He was an artist who worked in advertising after graduation and enlisted in the army in 1942. He was married to Dorothy Moulton (1913-2011), a 1934 Rice graduate who was employed by Woodfill Real Estate in Houston. The couple donated to Rice University; the Daley American and European Glass Collection was bequeathed to the Houston Heritage Society.
Texas railroads began in 1852 with the first tracks laid, and became more prevalent in the 1860s and 1870s.
James S. Waters was born in Galveston, TX on September 15, 1894. He received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Rice Institute in 1917. As a student, he was captain of the track team and president of the engineering society. He was also one of the leaders of the 1917 raid on Texas A and M to recover the kidnapped "Sammy" mascot. During World War I, he trained at Camp Bullis before serving overseas for two years in France and Germany as a part of the Corps of Engineers. He served in the Corps of Engineers, commanding a combat platoon in the St. Mihiel and Meuse-Argonne campaigns, earning three combat stars and the rank of First Lieutenant. He began teaching at Rice in 1919 as an instructor in mechanical engineering. In 1921 he began teaching in electrical engineering and was the first instructor to hold the title. He was chairman of the Electrical Engineering Department for many years and served several years as the faculty representative on the Southwest Conference Committee.
He served as a Major in the Training and Operations Division of Air Staff during World War II and rose to the rank of Colonel and the command of the 4th AAF Base Unit in New York. After the war ended, Waters returned to Rice until his retirement in 1964. He died in December 1964.
In the late 1960s, Bill and Lucille Cade formed a folk duo. Over the next several years, they performed throughout the region. They played in Houston venues, such as Anderson Fair Retail Restaurant, the UH Coffee House, and the Wooden Nickel Club, as well the college circuit in and out of the state. They also performed at Kerrville Folk Festival in 1974 with their young baby in tow.
Around 1976, Bill and Lucille Cade broke up. Later on, Lucille, now Borella, began performing with her husband Larry at Anderson Fair in 1979 under the name Larry & Lucille.
While no longer actively performing, Lucille Borella has stayed a member of the folk community. She and her husband support the Dripping Springs Songwriters Festival.
Bob Roosth of Will Rice College graduated in 1971 with a degree in Electrical Engineering. While at Rice University, he took photographs for the Campanile yearbook.
HACS was established in 1998 as a minority-based AIDS service to African American and Hispanic/Latino people living with HIV/AIDS. Objectives were to provide affordable, quality medical care, a pharmacy, behavioral health services and living assistance to individuals and families residing in Harris County and the surrounding areas. In 1997 the founder Joe Fuentes realized the need for an expanded health organization that would provide essential and specialty health services to patients living with chronic conditions such as HIV/AIDS. Mr. Fuentes was then able to extend the approach to all eligible residents of Harris County who were faced with the same social determinants that contributed to poor health.
In 1986 volunteers from Christ Church Cathedral and Bering Memorial United Methodist Church established Bering Community Service Foundation to provide compassionate care to people living with challenges posed by the new epidemic of HIV/AIDS. The same year, Eleanor Munger, founded a residential hospice, Omega House to provide a safe and caring environment for those living through the final stages of HIV/AIDS. Omega House joined with Bering to offer a holistic approach to care for those with HIV/AIDS and formed Bering Omega Community Services to offer a wide range of healthcare and social services for indigent, under-served clients in the greater Houston area.
In November 2016, Houston Area Community Services and Bering Omega merged as a Federally Qualified Health Center under the name Avenue 360 Health & Wellness.
Rice University was founded in 1891 and opened in 1912. The clothing in this collection reflects many of the events and trends over the years from the Academic regalia of the first female graduate, Miss H. Lel Red in 1916, freshman beanies, cheerleading uniforms, costumes for the Archi-Arts ball to more recent t-shirts for campus-wide events and programs.
Frank K. Tittel, J.S. Abercrombie Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, and chair of the department, was born in Germany in 1933 and studies physics at Oxford University, England, receiving his PhD from Oxford in 1959. He came to the United States in 1959 and to Rice University in 1967. In addition to his teaching skills, he was considered one of the nation's top authorities on the applications of lasers.
Benjamin Franklin Bonner, son of William Henry and Matilda Blackburn Bonner, was born April 14, 1869 in Angelina County, TX. During his youth he operated his parent's ferry on the Neches River while attending school in Angelina County, and then became a correspondent for the Houston Post and Galveston News and involved with the lumber and mercantile business. In 1894 he came to Houston as president of the Joe Davis Oil Co., organized Southwestern Oil Co., and established the first oil refinery in Houston and the first lubricating plant in the South. In 1901 Bonner organized the Bonner Oil Co. and in 1904 became vice president and general manager of the Kirby Lumber Co., rising to president from 1919 to 1923. He assisted Robert W. Wier organizing and incorporating the R.W. Wier Lumber Co. in 1907 and the Wier Long Leaf Lumber Co. and Gulf & Northern Railway in 1917, serving as president until 1926. From then until 1944 he served as vice president and a director of the Wier Long Leaf Lumber Co. and R.W. Wier Lumber Co. He helped organize the San Jacinto Trust Co. and San Jacinto National Bank and served as vice president of the trust company and a director of the bank. Service also included a director of the Houston Belt & Terminal Railway and board member of the Methodist Hospital, Houston. He married Annie Wier on April 22, 1891 and had two daughters, Garland (Mrs. George Howard) and Annie Wier (Mrs. Sheppard W. King). He died in Houston on Feb. 29, 1944.
Rice University and Shell Oil Company launched the Shell Center for Sustainability (SCS) in 2002. The Center is housed in the School of Social Sciences and collaborates with other centers and institutes at Rice University. SCS works closely with schools and organizations within the campus and beyond forging multidisciplinary teams and partnerships. The SCS uses the Gulf of Mexico, the state of Texas, and the Houston and Galveston region as research models.
The Shell Center for Sustainability's mission is to foster an interdisciplinary program of research, outreach, and education to address actions that can be taken to ensure the sustainable development of communities' living standards, interpreted broadly, to encompass all factors affecting the overall quality of life.
Information from http://shellcenter.rice.edu/Content.aspx?id=52
Sara Hickman grew up in Houston, Texas and attended the famed High School for the Performing and Visual Arts [HSPVA] in the late 1970s. For college, she moved away from Houston to attend North Texas State University (University of North Texas) and graduated with a BA in painting in 1986. After graduation, she relocated to Dallas and embarked on her musical career, playing at venues like Uncle Calvin's, Club Dada, and Poor David's Pub.
After recording and promoting her first album "Equal Scary People," Hickman signed with Elektra. While with the major label, she re-released that album and put out a new one, "Shortstop." Due to a variety of factors, she parted ways with the company in 1993.
Since her third album masters were Elektra property, she raised money from family, friends, and fans to buy back her masters and went on to release her fourth album, "Necessary Angels." Around the same time, she formed the trio Domestic Science Club with Robin Macy, formerly of the Dixie Chicks, and Patty Lege, which ended up putting out two albums.
In 1995, she left Dallas for Austin and has lived there ever since. She released 15 more albums over the next 20 years, including four children's albums. In 2010, the Texas State Commission on the Arts named her the Official Texas State Musician.
Since her days at HSPVA, Sara has devoted her time to a myriad of charitable activities including Habitat for Humanity, House the Homeless, Race for the Cure, and the Uganda Fistula Foundation. While she retired from music in 2017, she still continues her charity work and does vocal work for national commercials.
Lynn Langham grew up in Texas and spent her teen years in Freeport, Texas. At an early age, she gravitated to music learning first the piano and then the guitar. When she began college at the University of Texas, she started playing clubs in Austin and moved on to playing in Houston, Dallas, and Denton.
While in Houston, she became a part of the music community at Anderson Fair Retail Restaurant. On a daily basis, songwriters shared their work and motivated and challenged each other to improve as writers, players, and performers. She appears on the 12" LP "Through the Dark Nightly," which featured players from the venue.
At the request of a friend, she spent time in New York. She played at the famed Bitter End and other clubs in the area. Before ultimately relocating to Los Angeles, she briefly returned to Houston to continue her career.
After a long break from the music business and performing, she began recording again in Los Angeles. Moving to Nashville in 1989, she received a recording contract with Capital Nashville and began writing songs for a publishing company, Hayes Street Music. Although the album deal eventually fell through, she continued working for Hayes Street. While the writing scene has changed in Nashville, she continues to write and tours with her partner Doug Gill.
Her work has been recorded by Wynona Judd, Trisha Yearwood, and Carolyn Hester. The song "Old Yellow Moon," which she co-wrote with Hank DeVito, is the title cut of the Grammy winning 2014 Americana Album of the Year by Emmylou Harris and Rodney Crowell.
Brochsteins, Inc. of Houston has been a manufacturer of fine architectural woodwork and custom furniture since 1935. The company has provided widely diverse architecturally designed fixtures, such as paneling, doors, trim, desks, workstations and conference tables for financial institutions, law and corporate offices, public buildings, retail-commercial projects, as well as museums and residences. Each project is uniquely produced for each client, constructed according to the specifications of the architects and designers and coordinated according to the requirements of the contractor. Brochsteins develops detail drawings, mock-ups and prototypes, and provides assistance in the selection of woods for any project.
J. Dennis Huston, the Gladys Louise Fox Professor Emeritus of English at Rice University, was born September 21, 1939. He received his B.A. from Wesleyan University in 1961 and his M.A. (1964) and Ph.D. (1966) from Yale University. In 1966-67 he was an instructor of English at Yale and an Assistant Professor there for the following two years. In 1969 he became an Associate Professor at Rice University and in 1980 was promoted to full professor. His distinguished record of awards for outstanding teaching began in 1975 with the Brown College Teaching Award. The Nicholas Salgo Distinguished Teacher Award was won by Huston that same year and again in 1984. In 1977, 1979, 1981, and 1988 he received a George R. Brown Prize for Excellence in Teaching. The George R. Brown Certificate of Highest Merit followed in 1989, making him ineligible for life for further Brown teaching awards. His outstanding skills as a teacher received nationwide recognition in 1989 when he was chosen Professor of the year by the Carnegie Foundation and the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education.
Huston is the author of "Shakespeare's Comedies of Play" and co-editor of a collection of Renaissance plays. He has recorded video lectures on Shakespeare and on detective fiction for The Teaching Company. When the Rice faculty and administration decided that there should be foundational courses in the humanities, social sciences, and natural sciences required for students contrasting with their majors, Dennis Huston was chosen to be director of the Humanities Foundation Course. From 1978 to 1982 and again from 1992 to 1998 he was a co-master of Rice's Hanszen College, one of the student residence halls on campus. He is a past president of Rice's Beta of Texas chapter of Phi Beta Kappa and has served on the Phi Beta Kappa Alumni Association of Greater Houston's board of directors since 1999.
Sallie Keller-McNulty became Dean of Rice University's George R. Brown School of Engineering in 2005. She served in that position for five years and was then appointed Director of the Science and Policy Institute (STPI) in Washington D.C.. Prior to coming to Rice she was a professor and director of graduate studies in the Department of Statistics at Kansas State University and, following that, group leader for the Statistical Sciences Group at Los Alamos National Laboratory.
The Rice University Young Alumni Committee developed from an ad hoc committee of the Association of Rice Alumni in 1977. The intention was to organize a special group for graduates of the years 1965 through 1978 living in the Houston area. An initial get-together occurred on Friday, November 18 at 7:30 in the R Room at the south end of Rice Stadium. Respondents organized a 25-member steering committee, and on March 16, 1978, this group met for the purpose of planning activities. The most ambitious undertaking in the first year was a Friday-to-Saturday canoe trip on the Guadalupe River. 25 young alumni participated. By the spring of 1979, the committee decided that it would meet regularly on the second Thursday of every month at 7:30 in the Alumni Office. Membership recruitment materials over the years emphasized that the purpose of the organization, for which there were no dues, was to have fun and that it was not connected with fund-raising for the university.
The variety of activities increased year by year. In many of the years there was a tubing trip modeled after the first year's canoe trip. Another early idea with a long history of continuation was a monthly networking gathering at Han's Bierhaus in Rice Village. Outing sponsored by the organization included a night at the Houston Rodeo (35 participants in 2005) and attendance at one of the summer Shakespeare plays at Miller Theater in Herman Park. At the time of Beer Bike there was a Young Alumni tent, which drew many for beer and pizza in addition to actual "regular" members. Another ticketed event was a crawfish boil linked to one of the baseball team's Saturday games. The records indicate that the steering committee had a budget to work with, presumably from the Association of Rice Alumni. The total for 2004-05 was $15,000. Expenditures were for printing and postage for mailed information, refreshments at pre-game gatherings, professional services like bartenders and security at Beer Bike, Beer Bike tent rental, service awards, and the like.
The idea of establishing an award began with the purpose of recognizing outstanding service in the work of the Young Alumni Committee. It became officially named the Builders Award, which was given for the first time in 2005. Currently selection is determined by a twelve-member committee of young alumni who have made distinctive accomplishments in their careers and/or in service both to Rice Young Alumni or the University in general, and to the broader community. Awardees are announced at a Young Alumni event specifically for this purpose.
The records constituting this collection end with the 2005 material, but Young Alumni continues as an organization within the Association of Rice Alumni. The A.R.A. website states, "Everyone who has earned an undergraduate degree from Rice within the last 11 years is considered part of the Young Alumni group of Rice University." Leadership is provided by the Young Alumni Host Committee, and "Social and celebratory events […] are planned for Young Alumni across the nation…" The A.R.A. website also states that Young Alumni are 25% of the total alumni base and "represent an essential and rapidly growing subset of the Association of Rice Alumni."
The Rice Department of Bioengineering was established in July 1997 and formed with the help of a Whitaker Foundation Development Award. Of the original twelve faculty, seven held primary appointments: Larry McIntire (chairman), Tony Mikos, Ka-Yia San, Jackie Shanks, Jennifer West, Kyriacos Zygourakis, and Mike Berry, holding the joint appointment with Baylor College of Medicine. The five professors with secondary appointments were John Clark, Timothy Harrigan, David Hellums, Joel Moake, and Frank Tittel. By 2008, the department had grown to nineteen faculty members and eleven multidisciplinary joint appointments with science and engineering departments at Rice, as well as forty adjunct and affiliated faculty members, primarily from the Texas Medical Center. The student population has grown to more than 115 doctoral students. 
By 2008 the total research expenditures were $12.6 million. Since its founding, the Department of Bioengineering at Rice has consistently been ranked among the nation's top ten bioengineering/biomedical engineering graduate programs. 
The Rice Board of Governors approved the construction of Duncan Hall in 1993. Ken Kennedy, the director of the Center for Research on Parallel Computation, a consortium headquartered at Rice, said, "Computational Engineering is vital to the future of Rice and the nation." The building was designed to be a state-of-the-art facility for computation engineering. The goal was to bring together several related fields in Computational Engineering and foster collaboration between them. Rice received submissions from hundreds of firms, but ultimately selected British architect John Outram. Outram's design and approach were unorthodox and exciting but also stirred some controversy. He imbued his design elements with a rich if esoteric symbology and meaning. Outram wrote extensively about the philosophy and symbolism behind the building's elaborate and colorful design, and his essays can be found be found on his website. The budget for the project was set at $16.5 million. The Groundbreaking Ceremony was held on November 4th, 1994, and featured an exhibition of robots built by grade school students. Construction was completed late in 1996 and the building opened on November 4th. The building is named after Anne and Charles Duncan, Jr. Charles was a former chairman of the University's Board. Duncan Hall is currently a flagship building for the George R. Brown School of Engineering, and houses the departments of Computational and Applied Mathematics (CAAM), Computer Science (COMP), Statistics (STAT), part of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE), the Ken Kennedy Institute for Information Technology, and the offices of the Dean of Engineering.
For more information, visit Dr. Keith Cooper's Unofficial Duncan Hall Website, the Computer Science Department's facilities web page, and the website of John Outram and Associates
Son of Margaret and John T. Jones, Sr. and nephew of Jesse H. Jones, John T. Jones, Jr. was born in Dallas, TX on Dec. 2, 1917. The family moved to Houston where Jones attend public schools at Montrose Elementary, Lanier Junior High and graduated from San Jacinto High School in 1935. He then attended New Mexico Military Institute and graduated in 1938 with a commission as 2nd Lieutenant in the U.S. Army Reserve. In fall 1938, Jones entered the University of Texas to major in business and journalism. From June through August 1939 he toured Western Europe with letters of introduction from Jesse H. Jones.
Before graduating from the University of Texas, Jones was called to activie duty by the Army. He trained in Kentucky, North Carolina and Louisiana before shipping out to England and Ireland. During duty in Tunisia, Jones and his unit were captured by the Germans. Considered MIA/POW, Jones was transported to a prisoner of war camp, Oflag 64, in Szubin, Poland in June 1943 and remained there until 1945 when Germans force-marched prisoners deeper into Germany to flee Russians entering Poland. Jones returned to Houston following D-Day, and in Oct. 1945 married Winifred Small.
Jones went to work for the Houston Chronicle, owned by his uncle Jesse H. Jones. He gradually assumed greater responsibilities for Jesse Jones Interests and upon Jesse's death assumed full stewardship, which included Houston Endowment, Inc. He resigned his position as president of Houston Endowment in 1965 and served as president of Houston Chronicle from 1950 until 1966 from which he resigned to pursue oversight of KTRH Radio and KTRK Television as president of the Rusk Corporation. As a major Houston philanthropist, Jones gave time and energy to many local and national organizations, including National Conference of Chirstians and Jews, United Negro College Fund, Variety Boys Club, Society for the Performing Arts and Jesse H. Jones Hall for the Performing ARts. Jones continued his business and community activities in Houston until his death in 1994.
The C.D. Broad exchange program started as the brainchild of Frank Abraham, founder of the Abraham Student Aid Foundation Inc., who had attended Trinity College, Cambridge in his youth and felt that an exchange between the renowned British college and Rice University would be a worthwhile project to support. Originally intended to be a three-year direct exchange program, the foundation ended up sending one student overseas at a time with the United States and England alternating as host every year from 1962 to present day. 
The first exchange was between G. Lindsey Buchanan, 21-year-old graduate of Cambridge University, and James Sears McGee, 19-year-old Rice student. Though he stayed in a dormitory during his time at Rice, Lindsey was hosted by the McGees while he studied Industrial Management. 
The Old Lesbians Organizing for Change is a group that provides resources, information about past and ongoing events, and related projects. According to their website, OLOC is a "national network of Old Lesbians over age 60 working to confront ageism in [their] communities and [...] country. [They] use education and public discourse as [their] primary tools." The organization holds biennial National gatherings, from which some of the collection's materials originate.
The Ayers, Brown, McCarty, Martin, Diller, Boettner, Crump, Raynor, Ball, Freytag, and Bergeson, and families, from the mid 19th century to the mid 20th century. Branches of the allied families moved from the mid-Atlantic states of Pennsylvania and New Jersey westward to Illinois, Ohio, and Iowa, with some Ayers and McCarty families relocating permanently in Mississippi and Texas. Prompted by an interest in Southern agriculture, a Southern migration included the ownership and operation of two post-Reconstruction plantations, located in Mississippi and Louisiana.
Reginald James Dufour (1948-2020), a Louisiana native, held degrees from LSU and the University of Wisconsin at Madison and was a postdoctoral associate at the Johnson Space Center for two years before joining the Rice University faculty in 1976; he was named Professor Emeritus of Physics and Astronomy in 2016. Dufour played a key role in establishing and equipping the Rice Observatory in 2002. His research specialties included gaseous nebulae and star-forming galaxies, the Hubble Space Telescope, and imagery and spectroscopy observations with ground-based and space-borne telescopes. His numerous publications appeared in the Bulletin and Journal of the American Astronomical Society, The Astrophysical Journal, and Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society, among others.
In 1934 Mrs. Edith Hudson Ripley's will provided bequests to endow the Daniel and Edith Ripley Foundation. Pursuing the Ripley's goal of general benevolence in memory of her and her late husband, the Foundation's directors made a major gift in 1938 to the Houston Settlement Association that planned for the original Ripley House, constructed for Houston Settlement Association's use. The Foundation bought land and constructed Kirkland-Ripley 1950-51, Tsanoff-Ripley ca. 1972, Cleveland-Ripley 1968, Harbach-Ripley 1958-62. Numerous facilities and land, repairs, enhancements and renovations, and programs soon followed. Houston Settlement Association/Neighborhood Centers, Inc. eventually merged with Ripley House. The adopted mission of the Daniel and Edith Ripley Foundation is "to be a memorial of general benevolence to the memory of Daniel Ripley and Edith Ripley, his wife, by establishing, supporting, maintaining and operating in the Houston area major buildings and grounds to be used exclusively for charitable and educational purposes, and generally to carry out any other activity in connection with the foregoing."
Born and raised in Houston, Franci Files began hanging out at Sand Mountain Coffee House in the late 1960s. She befriended members of the community including Guy and Susanna Clark, Townes Van Zandt, Don Sanders, and Vince Bell.
A few years later after graduating from college, she became one of the co-owners of Anderson Fair Retail Restaurant. As one of the crew, she organized and handled food preparation, specifically the spaghetti lunches.
As the 1980s approached, Franci Files married Stephen Jarrard and began to explore her own musical career. She teamed up with her husband as a duo, performed in the band Terry and the Telephones, and lent vocals to Richard Dobson's second album, "The Big Taste."
Ready for a change, in the early 1980s, Franci and Stephen Jarrard relocated to the Austin-area. They continued to explore their music. Franci Jarrard started to play the accordion and performed with Richard Dobson when he played in Texas. In the 1990s, Stephen and Franci participated in the strolling trios Europa Trio with Javier Chaparro and Troika with Ann Mesrobian.
Robbie Morin became interested in Camp Logan in 2007, after a short metal detecting search in the camp area with some detecting friends. Wanting to find out what the camp had looked like in the past, he searched for photos, post cards and images from the camp.
His extensive collection of images, ephemera, and memorabilia from Camp Logan has been shared online in videos, contributed to a book on the history of Camp Logan, and used in exhibits at Fondren Library.
Camp Logan was an emergency training center in World War I, located on the earlier site of a National Guard Camp just beyond the western city limits of Houston. It was named for Major General John A. Logan, a prominent Civil War Union officer. The land was leased by the United States from the Hogg family who, by World War I had assembled the block of land that includes Memorial Park in their vast real estate holdings. Construction of the center began on July 24, 1917 in the area that is now Memorial Park. The developed area of Camp Logan was 3,002 acres within a tract of 9,560 acres. Camp Logan operated as a military establishment for 20 months, from 1917 - 1919.
During construction, members of the 3rd Batallion, 24th Infantry (Black troops commanded by white officers) were assigned to the Camp as guards and were stationed about a mile to the east. The Black soldiers' August 23, 1917 armed revolt in response to Houston's Jim Crow laws and police harassment resulted in the camp's most publicized incident, the "Houston Mutiny and Riot of 1917."
On March 20, 1919 the camp was turned over to the U.S. Public Health Service. In 1919 a building at Camp Logan, used by the American Red Cross during the war, was converted into a hospital for charity purposes. Shortly after World War I, Mike and Will Hogg regained possession of the tract on which Camp Logan was built. The City of Houston acquired the property from them for the development of Memorial Park in 1925.
Sources: Handbook of Texas Online, Claudia Hazlewood, "Camp Logan," accessed May 10, 2018, http://www.tshaonline.org/handbook/online/articles/qcc26.
A Persian miniature is a small painting, whether a book illustration or a separate work of art intended to be kept in an album of such works. The techniques are broadly comparable to the Western and Byzantine traditions of miniatures in illuminated manuscripts, which probably had an influence on the origins of the Persian tradition. The art of miniature painting in Persia [now Iran] flourished from the 13th through the 16th centuries. Having been taken from their context, the specific location and date of their original creation or use is difficult to determine.
Ad hoc committees at Rice University for short term processes at the university.
Bernard Aresu, the Laurence F. Favrot Professor of French and Professor Emeritus at Rice University, received his License de Lettres from the Universite de Montpelier, France in 1967 and a Ph.D. from the University of Washington in 1975. His teaching and research interests are in comparative and transnational literary studies in the 20th and 21st centuries with special focus on cultures of the global south. He joined the Rice faculty in 1997 and has served as Master for Brown and Lovett (2004-2009) residential colleges.
Henry J. Dannenbaum was born on October 30, 1871 in East Columbia, Brazoria County, Texas. He attended Henry College in Virginia, graduating in 1890. He studied law privately and was admitted to the bar in Sequin, Texas in 1892. He married Sadie Bowman around 1888, and the two had five children. Dannenbaum became a prominent lawyer and prosecutor in Houston, Texas, and served on the Houston School Board - both as a member and president - from 1904 to 1907.
Dannenbaum was an outspoken critic of white-slave trafficking, particularly among young immigrants. He was active in lobbying for the passage of the Mann Act, which made it illegal to transport women across state lines for immoral purposes. After the law was passed, Dannenbaum accepted an appointment as a Special Assistant to the Attorney General (Wickersham) to investigate violations of the Mann Act. During his year with the Department of Justice he successfully brought a number of violators to justice. He voluntarily retired from his position as Special Assistant and returned to his practice in Houston full-time.
In 1915, the governor appointed him to the position of judge for the 61st District Court in Houston. He was the first person of Jewish descent to sit on the state bench in Texas. He was president of the Hebrew Congregation Beth Israel of Houston and of District 7, Independent Order of B'nai B'rith, as well as a member of Social Services Foundation of Houston.
Dannanbaum died August 23, 1940 in Houston.
Some parts excerpted from:
https://www.jewishsouth.org/system/files/sjh_v._7_2004_stone.pdf http://www.isjl.org/texas-houston-encyclopedia.html
Young Judaea is the oldest Zionist youth movement in the United States. They have brought together thousands of Jewish youth from across the country and around the world – of every religious, cultural, and political persuasion, through a shared commitment to Jewish values, Jewish pride, and love of Israel. Each year more than 2,000 campers - grades 2nd to 12th - and staff attend Young Judaea's network of day and overnight summer camps located around the country.
Camp Young Judaea - Texas is a traditional, residential, Jewish camp founded in 1952. They are a co-ed camp that accepts campers between 2nd and 9th grade, (ages 7 to 14), and typically have 300 campers per session. There are two sessions every summer, each three weeks long. The campground is located near Austin, Texas, in Wimberley. Staff expose campers to a number of activities designed to educate, inspire, and enrich the lives of their campers.
Excerpted from: Camp Young Judaea Texas https://www.youngjudaea.org/summer-camps/camp-young-judaea-texas/
The Jones Graduate School of Business is named after the late Jesse Holman Jones, a world-renowned business and civic leader. Born in Tennessee in 1874, Jones moved to Dallas in 1891, and then to Houston in 1898. He began his business career overseeing lumberyards and sawmills in East Texas and Louisiana, and soon after branched out into construction and banking as he oversaw the construction of some of Houston's tallest buildings in the early twentieth century. During World War I, Jones served as Director of Military Relief for the American Red Cross. Jones was called on for assistance by Presidents Hoover and Roosevelt, and served as chairman of the Rreconstruction Finance Corporation during the Great Depression, overseeing investments in various assistance programs. After serving as Secretary of Commerce during World War II, Jones focused more on his philanthropic efforts, funding various organizations devoted to the arts, environment and human services, as well as museums, scholarships, and student grants, mostly through his philanthropic organization, Houston Endowment, Inc. (excerpted from "Texas Highways," January 2009, p. 5).
The Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business received its initial funding in 1974 through a donation from the Houston Endowment. The Jones school offers multiple MBA degrees as well as an undergraduate minor, and its programs have been recognized throughout the world for fostering innovation and leadership. (excerpted from the Jones Graduate School of Business webpage, http://business.rice.edu/About_School.aspx, accessed June 6, 2011)
The Jones Graduate School of Business is named after the late Jesse Holman Jones, a world-renowned business and civic leader. Born in Tennessee in 1874, Jones moved to Dallas in 1891, and then to Houston in 1898. He began his business career overseeing lumberyards and sawmills in East Texas and Louisiana, and soon after branched out into construction and banking as he oversaw the construction of some of Houston's tallest buildings in the early twentieth century. During World War I, Jones served as Director of Military Relief for the American Red Cross. Jones was called on for assistance by Presidents Hoover and Roosevelt, and served as chairman of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation during the Great Depression, overseeing investments in various assistance programs. After serving as Secretary of Commerce during World War II, Jones focused more on his philanthropic efforts, funding various organizations devoted to the arts, environment and human services, as well as museums, scholarships, and student grants, mostly through his philanthropic organization, Houston Endowment, Inc. (excerpted from "Texas Highways," January 2009, p. 5).
The Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business received its initial funding in 1974 through a donation from the Houston Endowment. The Jones school offers multiple MBA degrees as well as an undergraduate minor, and its programs have been recognized throughout the world for fostering innovation and leadership. (excerpted from the Jones Graduate School of Business webpage, http://business.rice.edu/About_School.aspx, accessed June 6, 2011)
In March 2000 Fondren Library at Rice University hosted a five day workshop on digitization for cultural heritage professionals. The course focused on the skills, principles, and best practice in the digitization of primary textual and image resources. The workshop was sponsored by the Humanities Advanced Technology and Information Institute (HATII).
Jainism is an Indian religion teaching a path to spiritual purity and enlightenment through disciplined nonviolence (ahimsa, literally "noninjury") to all living creatures. It began as a monastic religion. Along with Hinduism and Buddhism, Jainism is one of the three most ancient Indian religious traditions still in existence and an integral part of South Asian religious belief and practice. [Excerpted from https://www.britannica.com/topic/Jainism]
The 2014 exhibition and symposium "Women of Rice" were developed by Rosemary Hennessy, Andgela Wren Hall, Linda Driskill, Brian Riedel and the Center for the Study of Women, Gender, and Sexuality, at Rice University. Many faculty and staff participated in the Women of Rice Working Group toward these events. Students in Dr. Lora Wildenthasl's (2012) and Dr. Abigail Rosas (2013) Introduction to Sexuality, Womens and Gender Studies (SWGS) class interviewed women on campus, and excerpts from these interviews were used in the 2014 exhibition at Fondren Library.
Joanna Villarena Po was born on September 11, 1943 in Balasan, Iloilo, Philippines, one of ten children. Of her five brothers and four sisters she was the only one who came to America on her own, but she eventually sponsored two of her brothers to come later in life. When she was younger, her brother helped her complete her bachelor's degree in nursing in the Philippines. Afterwards she came to work at Houston Methodist Hospital. She received her master's degree at Texas Woman's University. She met her husband through a Filipino social group in Houston and they have two daughters. Later on in life she owned a jewelry business which she eventually gave up to be able to spend more time traveling and with her grandchildren.
In 2014, Po was interviewed by the Houston Asian American Archive oral histories program, and the interview is online at https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/77533. Throughout the interview, Po discusses incidences of discrimination she has endured as an Asian woman living in the United States, as well as general differences between her life in the Philippines and her life in the U.S.
Chinese American entrepreneur C.Y. Chu opened the Quong Yick grocery store in Houston circa 1930, believed to be the first Chinese-owned grocery in Houston. C.Y Chu went on to help other Chinese start businesses in the U.S., particularly in Houston.
He passed away long before the existence of HAAA. Raymond Gee went through a dumpster at C.Y.'s house after the latter's death and subsequent housecleaning by the latter's brother, and rescued these documents. C.Y. Chu helped lots of Chinese men establish their first grocery businesses when they land in Houston, generously opening his home and helping them set up.
Although the goal of establishing a business school at Rice had been set in the sixties during the administration of University President Kenneth Pitzer, the challenge of raising sufficient funds was not fully met until large gifts like a pledge of $5 million by Houston Endowment, Inc. had been secured in the mid-70's. The intent of this gift was to honor the memory of Jesse H. Jones, one of Houston's most important business and civic leaders and the founder of the Endowment. Thus, the Rice Board named the new school the Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Administration. In April 1876 Robert R. Sterling, already at Rice as the first Jesse H. Jones Professor of Management and chairman of the accounting department, was named the first dean. In this early period there were two main goals: to develop a coherent curriculum and to build on the Houston Endowment $5 million gift to raise the endowment to levels adequate to support the school's ongoing expenses.
Classes began with 55 students in 1977. Two degrees were offered, the Master of Business and Public Management and the Master of Accounting. In July 1980 Dean Sterling left the Jones, School, having built an excellent faculty, attracted good students, and seen the school begin to achieve a solid reputation in the Houston area.
The primary goal of a second phase, which was to last through the next 15 years and the next two deans, was to realize the ambition for national prominence. Dean Sterling was succeeded by Doug Tuggle, who had been the school's associate dean since 1978 and interim dean in the 1980-81 academic year. He served until 1987, when Rice chose former Postmaster General Benjamin F. Bailar to lead the school. In the intervening period the school moved away from its intense focus on public policy, and in the fall of 1985 the university faculty approved a change in the degree offered by the Jones School from Master of Business Management and Public Management to Master of Business Administration. Additionally, the school opened its own placement office (instead of depending on the university's placement personnel). After a major fundraising effort, the goal of $10 million for a new building and an endowment for its maintenance was reached. Herring Hall, the Jones' School new home, was completed in 1984.
Dean Bailar's administration, lasting until his retirement in 1997, was a period of gradual improvements in program offerings including cooperation with Rice's George R. Brown School of Engineering to offer a joint MBA/Master of Engineering degree. However, the challenges were still not enough to bring the Jones School to the level of being regarding nationally as an elite program.
The arrival of Rice's sixth president, Malcolm Gillis, in 1993, along with Dean Bailar's 1995 paper "Recognition for Excellence," prompted a thorough review of the school. The conclusion of the review was that the Jones School should either "embark on a course of becoming recognized for world-class distinctiveness and quality in management education, or it should decide to close its doors." Determination to follow the first of these alternatives led to commitment by President Gillis and a steering committee to make changes that would take advantage of the school's unique situation in relation to the Houston business community.
The retirement of Dean Bailar was followed by selection of Gilbert R. Whitaker, Jr., a 1953 Rice graduate who as dean of the University of Michigan Business School for nearly 12 years had led that institution to become one of the top business schools in the country. Dean Whitaker announced the goal of being ranked as a top-ten business school within 10 years. He began by leading the school to obtain International Association for Management Education accreditation in 1998. The planning included an increase in the number of students and faculty, which, along with changes in technology, made it necessary to anticipate replacing Herring Hall with a new building designed with state of the art facilities for a premier program. Ground was broken on the new building on May 23, 2000, and in August 2002, the school occupied was has become known as McNair Hall.
With these developments, the Jones Graduate School of Business, as it has been known since 2017, has come as close as at any time in its history to being the nationally ranked enterprise envisioned by its leaders since its inception.
Shearith Israel Congregation had its inception in 1899 when the Jewish citizens of Wharton, Texas, first met to conduct religious services, using members' homes as meeting places. Later, under the leadership of I. Ditch, a congregation was organized and Sabbath services were held each Friday night and Saturday morning in the lower floor of the old Masonic Lodge Building. The first Torah used by the congregation was ordered from New York by Mr. Ditch.
As the community grew and the number of Jewish families increased plans were formulated for the building of a Synagogue. A committee composed of Joe Schwartz, Ben Davis, T. Gordon, and M. Bernstein solicited funds and the Synagogue was built on the corner of Rusk and Burleson streets in 1921. The officers of the Congregation at that time were: Ben Davis, President; Joe Schwartz, Vice President; A. M. Smith, Treasurer; Herman Davis, Secretary; Trustees, T. Gordon, M. Levine, I. Kurtz, and L. Smith. In addition to the officers the congregation listed as members the following: J. Goldman, B. Leder, P. Alpard, L. Abovitz, S. Yarno, M. Berstein, D. Gordon, I. Kreitstein, and J. Abovitz.
At first the membership consisted mainly of Wharton citizens, but as the Jewish population increased in surrounding towns the congregation expanded to include those who lived nearby from El Campo, Bay City, Ganado, Edna, Palacios, and Richmond, making a total of 85 members. In 1940, President Ben Davis headed a committee to build the Jewish Community Center. A tract of 2.14 acres was purchased and the building was completed in the fall of 1940. It was located just off the Bay City Highway near the city park.
Rabbi Israel Rosenberg came to Wharton to assume the pulpit of Shearith Israel in 1955, and remained the community's spiritual leader until 1978. A year after Rosenberg's arrival, the community dedicated a new, state-of-the-art synagogue building in the shape of a six-pointed Star of David at 1821 Old Lane City Rd., that was designed by Houston Jewish architect, Lenard Gabert. The construction of a Religious School building and the Maynard Smith Memorial Library followed in 1961. Perhaps, the most notable and enduring feature of the property, however, was the barbecue pit. Shearith Israel's annual barbecue fundraiser, the social event of the year for the community, attracted hundreds of Jews and non-Jews from the area, as well as relatives and former members, who descended upon Wharton to eat chicken and coleslaw.
The synagogue closed its doors in 2002, when membership dwindled from a peak of 400 members down to just 39, and sold its facilities. In 2010, the main building burned to the ground, and, besides the community hall that still stands, visitors to the site today will see nothing but a concrete slab where the sanctuary and school once stood.
Excerpts from:
"History of Shearith Israel," Box 5, folder 10 and http://jhvonline.com/remnant-of-israel-saving-jewish-history-in-wharton-and-bay-city-p24684-313.htm
Gertrude "Gertie" Rosenzweig was born June 25, 1923, in Houston, Fort Bend County, Texas. She grew up in Houston and attended San Jacinto high school, graduating in 1940. Gertie married Sidney Denn -- a native of Bay City -- on September 1, 1946 at the Rice Hotel in Houston.
She and Sidney moved to New Orleans, Lousiana in Decemeber of 1946 to enable Sidney to work for Gertie's's brother, Leon. The two returned to Bay City the following year, and Sidney went into business with his brothers. Gertie and Sidney had four children: Bernard Ralph, Steven Howard, Brian Alan, and Meyer. She was a "Lifetime" member of Hadassah and volunteered her time as a pianist for many Jewish organizations throughout the area. Sidney and Gertie were members of Shearith Israel Congregation of Wharton, and were charter members of Beth David Center in Bay City.
Gertrude Denn died February 24, 2015 in Houston and is buried in the Shearith Israel Cemetery in Wharton.
Excerpted from: http://www.usgenwebsites.org/TXMatagorda/family_denn_sidney.htm
The Office of Alumni Affairs, in association with the Association of Rice Alumni, maintains communication with Rice alumni, encouraging them to stay connected with the University intellectually and socially and to assist in maintaining the welfare of the University.
Over the years, the Woodson Research Center has saved decommissioned laboratory equipment from across campus.
Ellen Jane Fishman grew up in New Orleans, Louisiana and attended Tulane University. Daniel Stephen Trachtenberg was born and raised in Seminole, Oklahoma. The two married on March 6, 1971. They settled in Houston and began attending Congregation Beth Yeshurun over forty years ago. One of the couples many causes over the years was participating in the effort to improve the lives of jews in the Soviet Union during the 1980s.
Carol Liberman graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Georgia and began her teaching career at age 20. She tought in Atlanta before moving to Houston in 1967. In Houston she joined the Teacher Corps, earned a M.Ed., and spent six years working to desegregate Houston public schools before moving on to teach at the Jewish Secondary school, which later became Emory Wiener where she taught English and History for 16 years.
In 1993, she began teaching at the Hebrew Academy, which later became Robert M. Beren Academy, where she taught for 21 years before retiring after over 48 years as an educator.
Outside of teaching, one of Liberman's great loves is baseball. When she moved to Houston in 1969 she became a die-hard Houston Astros fan, and was selected to represent the Houston Astros as one of "People's All-star teachers" in 2014 and was recognized at that year's MLB All-Star Game at Target Field in Minnesota.
Excerpted from: http://jhvonline.com/retiring-day-school-teacher-a-finalist-for-allstar-honor-p17418-102.htm
Stephen M. Kaufman was born in 1941, in Houston, Texas. Mr. Kaufman grew up in Houston and graduated from Bellaire Senior High School in 1958. After graduation, he attended Harvard College where he received a Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics, Magna Cum Laude, in 1962. His last two years at Harvard involved intense study of life insurance company taxation, which culminated in his honors thesis entitled, "The Life Insurance Company Income Tax Act of 1959." which was published in the National Tax Journal in December 1963 and March 1964. Mr. Kaufman built a long and successful career in the life insurance business.
At the time of his graduation, Kaufman received a commission as Ensign in the U.S. Navy and served aboard the destroyer USS John Hood during the Cuban Missile Crisis. He completed his tour of duty on July 1, 1964 with the rank of Lieutenant Junior Grade. He was honorably discharged from the Navy in 1972.
Stephen married Ann Poborsky in Houston on March 14, 1974. Stephen and Ann have been fixtures in the community and have been actively involved in Congregation Beth Israel, the American Jewish Committee, and the Houston Grand Opera among many other organizations. Both Stephen and Ann have been recipients of the David H. White award for recognition of their community involvement.
Both Louis Croft and his future wife, Ida Sylvia Kaplan, were born June 23, 1918, in Houston Texas. The two married February 9, 1941. Mr. Croft enlisted in the U.S. Army on February 11, 1942, and served for the duration of World War II. The couple had three children: Harry, Rochelle, and Steven. Louis and Ida Croft died October 25, 1992, and February 23, 2006, repectively. Both are interred at Beth Yeshurun Cemetery in Houston.
Abraham (Abe) Croft -- Louis Croft's younger brother -- was born May 12, 1920, in Houston. He attended Southern Methodist University in Dallas where he was named to the College Football All-America Team in 1944. He was drafted by the Chicago Bears and played in 11 games over the 1944 and 1945 seasons. Abe Croft died December 1, 1972 and is interred at Beth Yeshurun Cemetery in Houston.
Rochelle Faye Croft was born August 7, 1948, in Houston. She married Lee Richard Wunsch on March 25, 1979.
Legacy Community Health Services opened its new state-of-the-art 40,000 square foot clinic, the Montrose Center, in September 2011. It brings together two current clinic locations, allowing access to primary and behavioral healthcare services, eye care, wellness services, a gym and new dental care. The medical facility houses eight speciality clinics, ten support programs, four education based community programs and a pharmacy, and began servicing patients on Sept. 12, followed by its grand opening on Oct. 16. It offers pediatrics, pediatric behavioral health, family planning, HIV/STD testing and counseling, HIV specialty care, and a variety of support programs for people living with AIDS. Legacy operates three related facilities, Southwest Clinic, Baker-Ripley Clinic, and Lyons Avenue Health Center.
Founded in 2017 in the wake of Hurricane Harvey, as the Houston Jewish History Archive, the name was changed in January 2023 to the Joan and Standford Alexander South Texas Jewish Archives (STJA). STJA is dedicated to the study and preservation of Jewish life in South Texas. By collecting artifacts from all facets of Jewish life, the STJA sheds light on how Jews in and around Houston have balanced maintaining their traditions and heritage with adapting to life in Texas and the United States.
For more information related to HJHA visit their website: https://jewishstudies.rice.edu/houston-jewish-history-archive
Chaim Goldberg was born in Kazimierz, Poland in 1917. He began to sculpt at the age of five and to paint when he was six. He was discovered at the age of 14 and taken under the patronship of several wealthy sponsors. He was admitted to the Academy of Fine Arts in Warsaw at the age of 17. He had a studio in Houston for a time where he created large format sculpture, paintings, and graphics in various media. He died in Florida in 2004. David Steinberg was born in Russia in 1896 before immigrating to the United States. He was the donor's father. Doug Killgore (1947- ), a Louisiana native, turned an early interest in film, television, and the space program into a long, productive career. In 1965, still in high school, one of his films won honorable mention in a national contest and was part of his application to Rice. On the way to earning two degrees ('70, '71), he acted in numerous productions and continued to film — notably "The Great Dogfight," "Grigsby G," and weekly TV spots called "Rice News on Campus." After service in Vietnam, he worked at Theater Under the Stars, earned a master's degree in film, and established Killgore Productions, with Rice as one of his clients. James Morehead's "Walking Tour" and a feature film, "The Trust," were among his notable Rice-related successes. He owned and operated The Woodlands Science and Art Center before returning to Rice, where he shot and edited a wide variety of videos and films, 2004-2014.
Reuben W. Askanase was born October 21, 1908, in Fargo, North Dakota to immigrant parents. Early in life he assisted his mother with the family's chuck wagon -- following migrant workers, cooking and serving them meals on their jobs or boarding many in their home. Following graduation from North Dakota Agricultural College, Askanase moved to Brooklyn and took a position as an office boy at Abraham & Strauss department store, where he met his future wife, Hilda Graham. Over the following years he worked his way up to vice president of the company.
Hilda Graham Askanase was born October 12, 1906, in Old Town, Maine. She received her Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Maine with a major in French and was a member of the honorary societies Phi Beta Kappa and Phi Kappa Phi. As mentioned, Graham met Reuben Askanase while at Abraham & Strauss, and the two married in 1931, in Akron, Ohio. They remained in Ohio for several years – having two children there, Phyllis and David. Hilda and Ruben moved back to New York briefly before making their final move to Houston in 1945.
After arriving in Houston, Reuben began working with the Columbia Dry Goods store and invested in the purchase of the manufacturer of Evenflow baby bottles. He and his partners built the company into Dunhill International, which owned Spaulding sporting goods, along with other properties. He was active in the Houston Council on Human Relations, the Houston Symphony, and the Alley Theatre. He also served as president of the Houston Sports Association and the Jewish Community Center, chairman of the United Jewish Campaign, trustee of the Rothko Chapel and North Dakota State University (formerly NDAC), and a board member of Allied Mercantile Bank and Benjamin Franklin Savings Association. Reuben received the Max H. Nathan Award for community service from the American Jewish Committee in 1964.
The two were known for their philanthropy, both in the Jewish community and throughout Houston. They helped raise funds for Citizens for Good Schools and the Houston Area Women's Center, among others. Reuben and Hilda were members of Congregation Beth Israel.
Reuben Askanase died January 3, 1991, and Hilda on Aug. 4, 2013, in Houston and are interred at the Beth Israel Cemetery. Their son, David James Askanase, was born June 28, 1936 in Akron, Ohio. He graduated from University of Pennsylvania in 1958 and Harvard Law School in 1962. He married Susan Ellen Silverman in Ohio in 1963. David was a practicing attorney in Houston for many years before retiring.
No biographical information is known about Loraine and George B. Meyer.
Olivewood Cemetery is located at the end of Court Street between Hicks and East Second Street in Houston. It lies in a bend of White Oak Bayou in the John Austin survey, in an area formerly known as Chaneyville. Founded in 1875, it is one of the oldest-known platted, African-American cemeteries within the Houston city limits. [Source: Handbook of Texas Online, Debra Blacklock-Sloan, "OLIVEWOOD CEMETERY," accessed November 28, 2018, http://www.tshaonline.org/handbook/online/articles/leo10. ]
A native Houstonian, Aulbach is a graduate of St. Thomas High School, Rice University and the University of Chicago. In 2008, he retired after over 17 years as the records management officer for the City of Houston. He served on the Harris County Historical Commission in the 2009-2010 term.
Aulbach also leads Buffalo Bayou Partnership's history boat tours throughout the year.
Source: Buffalo Bayou Partnership. "Learn More about Houston's Roots with Local Historian Louis Aulbach at His Book Signing for 'Buffalo Bayou'." Houston Chronicle, Houston Chronicle, 3 Oct. 2016, www.chron.com/life/health/article/Learn-more-about-Houston-s-roots-with-local-9568979.php.
The Center for AIDS (CFA) opened its doors in 1995 with the goal of helping to shape research priorities and serving as an information resource for those living with AIDS. It is dedicated to gathering, interpreting, and making information available while furthering the national research agenda. The Center strives to keep both the Houston medical and affected community informed, updated and involved in a search for a cure.
Jacob Geller was born, 1863, in what historically was known as Gilicia or Austrian Poland, which at the time of his birth was ruled as part of the Austrian Empire. His wife, Sara Wittis Geller, was also born in 1863 in Austrian Poland. The two were married in 1882. Rabbi Jacob Geller and his wife, Sara, immigrated to the United States from Europe around 1882 at the bequest of the Orthodox community of Galveston, Texas, to fulfill their search for an Orthodox rabbi. He served as rabbi for the congregation called "Bikur Cholim" for a number of years. While there he organized the Hebrew Orthodox Benevolent Association and dedicated a synagogue built by the Young Men's Hebrew Association. He served there for eighteen years, coming to Houston in 1910 to serve as rabbi of the Adath Israel congregation. He was elected for life tenure in November of 1929. He died February 10, 1930.
Jacob and Sara Geller had eight children: Harry Geller (1882-1963), Samuel Geller (1886-1971), Annie Geller Leff (1894-1973), Rabbi Max Geller (1896-1966), Abram L. Geller (1898-1989), Goldie Geller Minkes (1902-1986), and Gladys Leah Geller Gordon (1904-1982), and Esther Geller Rothkop (1907-1999).
Rabbi Max Geller was born May 27, 1896 in Galveston County, Texas and served as the rabbi of Congregation Beth Jacob for a number of years. In 1934, he was unanimously re-elected by Congregation Adath Israel to serve as spiritual leader for a period of ten years. The first native Texan to become an orthodox Jewish minister, Rabbi Geller was also active in civic and philanthropic affairs of the community. He died on July 11, 1966 at 70 years of age.
Abram L. Geller was born in Galveston, Texas on July 18, 1898. He was the son of Rabbi Jacob and Sara Geller. He graduated from Rice Institute in 1920. He worked for Leff Brothers Dry Goods Company. In 1923 he married Lebby Yellen of Beaumont, Texas. He had three children: Reba Geller Swiff, Devora Geller Rubin, Jacob Geller, and Golda Geller Baker. Geller belonged to the B'nai B'rith for 64 years and was a Zionist from the age of 22. He was past president of three synagogues and a founder of Houston's Hebrew Academy. He helped organize Beth Jacob Congregation in 1937 with his brother Rabbi Max Geller. He died aged 90 on May 8, 1989.
The Leff brothers -- Ben, Jacob, and Sol -- were born in 1894, 1896 and 1900, respectively. The family immigrated from Austria to the United States in the early 1900s and settled in Texas. The three set up a corporation in 1921 and began a whole sale dry goods operation at 521 Preston Avenue in Houston. Sol was the salesman for South Texas, Jacob was office manager and sales, and Ben was buyer of all merchandise. After flooding twice the brothers moved the operation in 1937 to 1711 Preston. As the years passed the brothers' children began working in the family business, including Jacob's son David. Jacob Leff married Annie Geller (daughter of Rabbi Jacob and Sara Geller) in 1917. The couple had three children, including David M. Leff, born in Houston on August 24, 1924. David graduated from high school early and enrolled at Texas A&M University. David left college after three years, when World War II began, to join the Army where he served at military intelligence schools in France and England during the war. After the war, he returned to Texas A&M and graduated with a degree in business and accounting before joining his father and uncles at Leff Bros. Dry Goods. David met Evelyn Zimmerman on a blind date and the two married in 1947. They had three children: Stanley, Sharan, and Tina. Evelyn died in 1993 and David died in 2017 at the age of 93. Excerpted from: http://jhvonline.com/david-mendel-leff-p23495-124.htm
Abram L. Geller was born in Galveston, Texas on July 18, 1898. He was the son of Rabbi Jacob and Sara Geller. He graduated from Rice Institute in 1920. He worked for Leff Brothers Dry Goods Company. In 1923 he married Lebby Yellen of Beaumont, Texas. He had three children: Reba Geller Swiff, Devora Geller Rubin, Jacob Geller, and Golda Geller Baker. Geller belonged to the B'nai B'rith for 64 years and was a Zionist from the age of 22. He was past president of three synagogues and a founder of Houston's Hebrew Academy. He helped organize Beth Jacob Congregation in 1937 with his brother Rabbi Max Geller. He died aged 90 on May 8, 1989.
Jacob Geller was born on May 30, 1930, the only son of Abram and Libby Geller. He attended Rice University and Baylor Dental School in Dallas, Texas. He served in the armed forces in the Air Force and Navy. He died on March 6, 2022. Donor of the materials, Devora Geller Rubin is from a self-proclaimed "Rice Family." She attended Rice her freshman year at 16 before going on to complete her schooling at UT Austin in 1948. Devora's father, Abram Lewis Geller, graduated in the fourth class of the Rice Institute in 1920. Her husband and Dallas native, Louis Rubin, graduated from Rice in 1948, the same year as her cousin, Henry Geller. In addition, Rubin's aunts Florence Kless Yellen and Beulah Axelrod Yellen, uncle Milton Yellen, and brother Jacob Geller all attended Rice. 
In addition to its Rice connections, Rubin's family also has close ties to the Houston Jewish community. Her Grandfather, Rabbi Jacob Geller was rabbi of the Adath Israel congregation from 1910 until his passing, while her uncle, Rabbi Max Geller was the head of congregation Beth Jacob for a number of years. Rubin herself spent much of her youth in and around Beth Jacob, attending school across the street at Albert Sidney Johnson Junior High School. 
Rabbi Jacob Geller was born in Galicia and received his rabbinical training there, becoming rabbi of the orthodox community of Galveston in 1892. While there he organized the Hebrew Orthodox Benevolent Association and dedicated a synagogue built by the Young Men's Hebrew Association. He served there for eighteen years, coming to Houston in 1910 to serve as rabbi of the Adath Israel congregation. He was elected for life tenure in November of 1929. He died February 10, 1930 at 67 years of age, survived by his wife Mrs. Sara Geller, eight children: Harry Geller, Samuel Geller, Abram L. Geller, Rabbi Max Geller, Mrs. Jacob Leff and Miss Esther Geller, Mrs. Goldie Minkes, and Mrs. Leah Gordon. 
Rabbi Max Geller was born May 27, 1896 in Galveston County, Texas and served as the rabbi of congregation Beth Jacob for a number of years. In 1934, he was unanimously re-elected by the Congregation Adath Israel to serve as spiritual leader for a period of ten years. The first native Texan to become an orthodox Jewish minister, Rabbi Geller was also active in civic and philanthropic affairs of the community. He died on July 11, 1966 at 70 years of age. The Leff brothers -- Ben, Jacob, and Sol -- were born in 1894, 1896 and 1900, respectively. The family immigrated from Austria to the United States in the early 1900s and settled in Texas. The three set up a corporation in 1921 and began a whole sale dry goods operation at 521 Preston Avenue in Houston. Sol was the salesman for South Texas, Jacob was office manager and sales, and Ben was buyer of all merchandise. After flooding twice the brothers moved the operation in 1937 to 1711 Preston. As the years passed the brothers' children began working in the family business, including Jacob's son David.
Jacob Leff married Annie Geller (daughter of Rabbi Jacob and Sara Geller) in 1917. The couple had three children, including David M. Leff, born in Houston on August 24, 1924. David graduated from high school early and enrolled at Texas A&M University. David left college after three years, when World War II began, to join the Army where he served at military intelligence schools in France and England during the war. After the war, he returned to Texas A& M and graduated with a degree in business and accounting before joining his father and uncles at Leff Bros. Dry Goods. David met Evelyn Zimmerman on a blind date and the two married in 1947. They had three children: Stanley, Sharan, and Tina. Evelyn died in 1993 and David died in 2017 at the age of 93.
Excerpted from: http://jhvonline.com/david-mendel-leff-p23495-124.htmJoyce Kramer Gilbert was born and grew up in New York City. She graduated from The High School of Music and Art and Beaver College (Arcadia University) with a degree in Early Childhood Education. She married Robert David Gilbert in 1957, and they and their three children moved to Houston in 1967.
She began her career with the Jewish Community Center in 1968 as a Nursery School teacher and subsequently was the Director of Children and Youth, Day Camp Director, Outreach Director and the Director of Early Childhood. In 1979 she left the JCC and worked as an Epidemiology Field Worker for a number of years. In 1981, she started her collaboration with the artist Judy Chicago and worked with her on The Birth Project, the Holocaust Project and Resolutions as well as individual pieces. She sat on the board of Through the Flower, the non-profit that supports Judy Chicago's work for approximately 15 years. She continues to design and execute needlework projects, mostly of Judaic subjects. In 1984 she traveled to the then Soviet Union to bring aid to the refusenik community through the auspices of the Union of Councils for Soviet Jews. She directed Houston Action for Soviet Jews and served as a Vice President of the Union of Councils for Soviet Jews. In Houston Joyce has served on the Boards of the Jewish Federation of Greater Houston, the American Jewish Committee from which she received the Susman Award in 2002, and Congregation Brith Shalom for which she was President from 1993-1995. In 2005 Joyce was Chair of the Book and Arts Fair of the ERJCC and continues to be active on committees there.
Married in May of 1948, Aubrey and Sylvia Farb are influential members of the Houston Jewish Community, making their mark by volunteering with politics, the arts, and the homeless. The Aubrey and Sylvia Farb Community Service Fund they created at Congregation Emanu El is still very active today. After marrying, they settled in Houston, and have 4 daughters, and 6 grandchildren. 
A native of Galveston, Texas, Sylvia Farb was born on April 25, 1926. After graduating from the University of Texas at Austin, she moved to Houston, where she met her future husband playing bridge, a mutual hobby. She worked as a travel agent for Joske's Travel, spent some years as a stay-at-home mother, and volunteered in her free time. 
Born September 1, 1922, Aubrey Farb moved from his hometown in Galveston to attend the Rice Institute (now Rice University) in Houston. During his school days, he was involved with the Menorah Society (a predecessor to Hillel) and served as a representative to the Student Religious Council. During the war, he was chosen to attend Japanese Language School, becoming a Japanese interrogation Officer, before returning to receive his Master's Degree from Columbia University. Farb then found work as a CPA, a profession which he wrote and lectured extensively about in his lifetime. 
In addition, Aubrey was a managing partner of the Houston office of the international accounting firm of Alexander Grant, a Director of the Texas Society of Certified Public Accountants and Vice-President of its Houston chapter, and a National President of the Phi Beta Kappa Alumni. He also served as a member of the Auditing Task Force that assisted President Nixon's blue ribbon committee that studied the finances of the Defense Department. He has been a professor at the University of Houston and Rice University, the latter school for which he underwrote the Program in Jewish Studies postdoctoral Fellowship for 2014-2015. 
The Texas Jewish Feminist Conference was a an event held under the purview of the Houston branch of the American Jewish Committee, a Jewish advocacy group highly regarded by the global Jewish Community. Held annually, the Conference seeks to build a sense of community among Jewish feminists, expand awareness of issues at a local, national, and global level, and to offer a forum to explore current writing and research on Judaism, women, and feminism. 
The Keynote speaker at the 1992 Conference and source of the collection materials, Sandra Block has served a host of community organizations and institutions, including time as a member of Emanu El's board of trustees and former chair of its Social Action Committee, vice president of the American Jewish Committee, volunteer for AARP, chair of Yom Limmud for the Bureau of Jewish Education, board member of Jewish Family Service and Big Brothers/Big Sisters of Greater Houston, vice president of Interfaith Ministries, board mem­ber of the Jewish Federation of Greater Houston, co-founder of the Sex Offense Staff, as well as a consultant, trainer and facilitator for United Way of the Texas Gulf Coast. Block has been honored for her outstanding volunteer service and leadership by United Way, and has received the Nachtigall-Talley Award for Outstanding Leadership and Vol­unteer Services by Inter­faith Ministries, Harry Caplovitz Award for Community Leadership, and the President's Award from the American Jewish Committee. 
Edward "Buz" Zelman Marvins is the son of well-known photographers and philanthropists Sonia and Kaye Marvins, owners of Kaye Marvins Photography in Houston. Edward's wife, Libby Marvins is the Recording Secretary for the National Council of Jewish Women and served on the 2018-2021 Board of the Sisterhood group at Congregation Emanu El. Both Edward and Libby have strong ties to congregation Emanu El, and spend much of their time volunteering in the Houston community.
According to its website, The Workmen's Circle is "a social justice organization that powers progressive Jewish identity through Jewish cultural engagement, Yiddish language learning, multigenerational education, and social justice activism." Founded in 1900, the institution was originally meant to present a united front and root traditional values in the new world for Jewish immigrants facing "exploitative labor practices, blighted and overcrowded tenements, ethnic rivalries [and an] unfamiliar new culture." Though its focus has shifted somewhat in the century of involvement in the Jewish Community, the Workmen's Circle holds true to the values that originally brought the members together: "Jewish community, the promotion of an enlightened Jewish culture, and social justice." Today, the Circle "[works] fiercely to remain a bulwark in the fight for the dignity and economic rights of immigrants, fairness in labor practices, decent health care for all Americans." 
A long-standing member of the Workmen's Circle, Edith Winograd Stolbun was born in Houston, one of nine children of Ida and Max Winograd. She married her husband Bernard on Sept. 8, 1946, and together they raised three children. During her time, she volunteered as a driver for the Lighthouse for the Blind, and various other community programs, including the Jewish Welfare Board's war-time program. She had a close connection to United States veterans, having lost in combat one of the two brothers who served in World War II. 
Martin Robert Nathan was born in 1944 and passed away January 4, 2011. A native of Houston, he lived there most of his life with his loving wife, Marilyn Kemeny Nathan and their two sons Marc Harris and Michael Kemeny Nathan. Martin graduated from Bellaire High school before completing his Law Degree at the University of Houston, going on to practice alongside his mother for many years at Nathan, Nathan and Newman Law Firm. In 1999, he began to work with his son Marc at Bulldog Financial. A known philanthropist, Nathan gave to many people and organizations, and was known for his honesty and integrity.
Seven Acres is a not for profit, non-sectarian, certified and licensed Medicaid, Medicare accredited, and private pay facility that cares for the aged for the Houston Jewish community. In addition to being the only Jewish nursing facility serving the Texas Gulf Coast, Seven Acres is the largest long-term care facility in Houston and contains one of the most outstanding certified Alzheimer's Units in the country. Founded in 1943, the Home began as a small house on Branard street with only 14 residents. Rampant support in the community led to growth, and the facility expanded four times over the next decade and a half, bringing the Seven Acre's capacity to 98. The Home moved to its current location on the Pauline Sterne Wolff Campus adjacent to The Medallion Jewish Assisted Living Residence in 1977. Originally formed to fill a need that the leaders in the Houston Jewish community recognized, Seven Acres still provides a warm, caring and religious atmosphere for its aging residents today.
Spanning several generations, the Bell family has engaged with the Houston Jewish community at Congregation Emanu El, and through their patronage of Jewish schools, including the Workmen's Circle School, Nite Owl Program, and the Jewish Community Center Nursery. Featured by name in this collection are family members Luba Bell Wise, her daughters Minnie and Annie, and her grandson Mark Joel Birnbaum, as well as Boris "Bussie" Bell, and material donors Henrietta and Marian Bell, his wife and daughter respectively. Photo albums also feature extended family members, such as the Kapiloffs. The control folder contains the arranger's reconstructed family tree for reference.
Gus Louis Levine, with only an eighth grade education, opened a very small general store on Fowlkes Street in Sealy, Texas in 1915, after he left Brenham at the age of twenty. In 1917 he bought the Otto Albert store (built around 1890) at 217 Main Street in Sealy. Here they sold groceries, hardware, saddles, harnesses, and feed. A few years later they had an Oliver tractor dealership and sold the first tractors in Austin County. Abe Levine joined the business after World War I, and Maurice Levine became the third partner in 1924 after attending Brenham's Blinn College. He pitched for the Blinn baseball team and was known as "Lefty" Levine. In 1928, they constructed an adjacent building of equal size. Two large archways were put in the partition wall enabling customers to go from the grocery store to a new "dry goods" store. The new addition offered men's, ladies' and children's clothing, shoes, fabric, sheets and towels, tables and chairs, and Samsonite luggage. The brothers were always looking for new ventures. In 1940, they started ranching, which developed into a cow/ calf operation. Maurice usually looked after the cows and also worked at the Wednesday cattle auctions started by C.A. Mewish of Bellville.
Gus, died in a train crossing accident on December 29, 1948.
From 1930 until the late 1950s, tokens and coupon books were used in the store in lieu of cash. Levine Bros. had a large number of share-croppers and farmers as customers, and this offered them a simplified manner of managing their accounts. This also fit within their scope of business since the Levine Brothers were the major cotton buyer in Austin County. Usually a family, depending on their cotton acreage and family size, could get about $10-40 monthly to be paid in full upon the sale of cotton and corn in the fall. Tenant farmers paid as rent to their landlords one-quarter of their cotton harvest and one-third of their corn harvest. If there was a crop failure, the unpaid balance would be carried over without question until the next year.
The store continued in this fashion until 1966 when Gus's son, Melvyn Levine, remodeled the building and converted it to clothing, footwear, and jewelry only. Levine Bros. closed December 24, 1994.
Excerpts from: http://txjhs.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/07/2015-Dec.pdf
Annie Bleaden was the great grandmother of Betsy Marks Schreiber. She married Louis Silain in March, 1897. Louis changed the spelling of his last name to Seline. The couple lived in Houston and had four children – Hyman, Gertrude, Dora, and David. The four Seline children lived in Houston all of their lives and many of their descendants still do.
In 1928 Gertrude Seline, the oldest daughter, married Seymour Nathan. Gertrude was born in 1899 and Seymour was born in 1894. In 1930 they had twin daughters, Joanna and Nona Jane Nathan.
Nona Jane married Richard Marks in 1954 in Houston at Westwood Country Club. They had two children, Kenneth and Betsy. Kenneth married Elena Maslia Marks and they have three children, Andy, Elliot and Evan. Elliot is an MBA graduate of Rice's Jones School. Betsy married Edward Schreiber and they have two children, Jessica and Emily. Emily works at Rice University as the director of development for the southeastern region of the US.
Gertrude Nathan, born in 1899, set a goal of living in three centuries. When the year 2000 arrived she explained to all that 2000 was the final year of the previous century, not the first year of the new century. She died on September 1, 2001 having achieved her goal.
The photograph includes: Richard Marks (Betsy's father), Hershel Maltz, Eddie Sheinberg (sp), and Kenneth Schnitzer. Lillian Weinberg was born in 1896 in Houston to Philip and Ida Weinberg. Benjamin Kaufman was born in Russia in 1894 and immigrated to the United States in 1912. Lillian and Benjamin married in 1921. The couple had two children, Raymond and Inez. Inez Kaufman was born on October 15, 1929. She grew up in Houston and graduated from Reagan High School. She attended University of Texas at Austin.
Maurice Eskowitz was born in Galveston to Harry and Adele Eskowitz in 1925 and the family moved to Houston when Maurice was ten years old. He graduated from Jefferson Davis High School in 1943 and attended the University of Houston until joining the Army the following year. Maurice spent two years in the Army, serving in the Philippines and Korea before being discharged in May 1946. After returning, he continued his education at UH, graduating in 1950.
Inez married Maurice Eskowitz in 1952. The couple had three children, Sheryl, Bruce, and Barbara. Maurice died July 4, 2013, and Inez died March 6, 2019. Both are buried at Beth Yeshurun Cemetery on Post Oak.
Dr. Horwitz is a native of Beaumont, Texas. He attended the University of Texas at Austin and in 1961, graduated from the University of Texas Dental Branch at Houston, where, after serving two years in the Air Force, he held a clinical appointment in Operative Dentistry and Endodontics. Dr. Horwitz has been in full- time private practice in Houston throughout his career.
Dr. Horwitz's parents, Dora Adler Horwitz and Joe Horwitz, and his mother's siblings, Ben Adler and Eva Adler Swerdlow, ran Adler's clothing store for decades in downtown Beaumont, Texas. The store was started by Dr. Horwitz's grandparents in 1913 and closed in 1991.
Temple Emanuel was founded in Beaumont in 1895 and erected its first building in 1901. Congregation Kol Israel was founded in 1917 by members who preferred Orthodoxy to the Reform worship style at Temple Emanuel. Due to dwindling numbers, the two Congregations merged in 1971, at which time and Kol Israel constructed a separate chapel in the Sunday school building of the Temple Emanuel complex. Due to this merger, Temple Emanuel grew from 175 contributing members in 1970 to 223 in 1976. The family belonged to Congregation Kol Israel prior to 1971 and continued at Temple Emanuel. Temple Emanuel is the only Synagogue that remains in Southeast Texas. Unfortunately, the Jewish community in Beaumont, like many rural Jewish communities around the country, has declined in recent years and left Temple Emanuel's future uncertain.
Excerpted from:
https://www.ddshouston.com/our-practice/dr-w-kenneth-horwitz/ http://www.isjl.org/texas-beaumont-encyclopedia.html
Jerry "Scooter" Ebel worked at music venues like Liberty Hall in the 1970s. During this time, he collected letter press posters. Many of posters in our Liberty Hall collection (MS 658) come from Ebel.
Throughout the 1970s, Steve Tostenyard collected posters from music venues and other events in Houston and Austin.
Born in 1933, Peter Gardner grew up in Cleveland. He attended Haverford College in Pennsyylvania receiving a Bachelor's degree in Psychology and a Master's degree in Music.
From the late 1950s to the early 1960s, he toured the United States and Europe with his then wife, Isabelle Ganz, under the stage name The Gardners. They recorded two albums, entitled "Peter and Isabel; The Gardners" (1962) and "Folksongs Far and Near" (1963).
The couple eventually settled in Houston in 1962, when Peter Gardner became the Director of Adult Activities at the Jewish Community Center. In this role, he organized a seasonal folk music series. Starting in 1965 and ending in 1966, he hosted the KRBE show "The Sampler" from his home at 716 W. Alabama in Houston.
During this time period, he opened up his home to pickin' parties where folk singers Guy Clark and Townes Van Zandt met. The Jewish Community Center folk series influenced a generation of Houston folk musicians with performances by John A. Lomax, Jr., Lightnin' Hopkins, and Mance Lipscomb.
In 1969, Peter Gardner moved to the Boston area. He became a practicing psychotherapist, as well as a consultant. He lived in the area until he passed in 1993.
Hadassah was founded in 1912 by Henrietta Szold after returning from a trip to pre-state Israel where she was horrified by the impact starvation and disease had on her people. She motivated Jewish women to support a feet-on the-ground approach to end the deplorable conditions in pre-state Israel. Hadassah Medical Organization flourished over the next century into two world-class medical and research centers in Jerusalem.
The Houston Chapter is comprised of 15 groups that meet in various areas of the city, at varying times. It is the largest Jewish women's organization in Houston. Debbie Angel was president of the Houston Chapter of Hadassah at the time this collection was created.
Excerpts from: http://www.hadassah.org/about/history.html
According to his obituary, Leon Marion Nad was born in Houston, and graduated from Rice University. "He received a master's degree in business administration from the University of Pennsylvania and taught there for three years. In 1951, he joined the accounting firm of Ernst and Whinney." 
In 1956, he moved to Price Waterhouse, where he quickly climbed the corporate ladder, becoming a partner in 1964, and later the national director of technical tax services, and associate vice chairman for tax consulting. Through his work, Leon became a national expert on taxes, and "often testified before Congress on tax policy issues." He remained with the firm until his retirement in 1988. 
Another family member featured in the collection, Leon's father Irving was a Legacy Society Member at the Evelyn Rubenstein Jewish Community Center, creating the Irving Nad Memorial Bible Program Fund, which sponsors the annual program of Bible study for seniors. 
Steven Fenberg's grandparents Eleanor and Bennett Fenberg moved to Houston, Texas from Detroit, Michigan in 1944, and bought a home and acreage on Post Oak Road near what is now Evergreen Street and Loop 610. They purchased Nolen Jewelry Company from Felix Nolen, who started the company decades earlier by selling watches door-to-door. Eleanor and Bennett returned to Detroit in 1950 after Steven Fenberg's father Morton returned from military service during World War II and assumed the business. Morton's brother L. Bennett (Elby) Fenberg and brother-in-law Marvin Barish also moved to Houston and participated in the new family business. The family's first store was located in Jesse Jones's 1914 two-floor Wells Fargo building at Capitol and Travis, where the 70-floor Chase Tower now stands.
Steven Fenberg attended Edgar Odell Lovett Elementary School, Albert Sidney Johnston Junior High School and Bellaire High School in Houston. During high school he volunteered at the Jewish Community Center where he established the Hikers and the Night Owls—social groups for special- needs children and young adults. After graduating from the University of Texas at Austin with a bachelor's degree in business, Fenberg joined the family business, which his father had expanded statewide. Fenberg later volunteered as the speaker's bureau coordinator at AIDS Foundation Houston in the late 1980s when AIDS was emerging, and he began writing editorials for newspapers and magazines. In the early 1990s he left the family business and pursued a career as a writer.
Fenberg began working in 1993 at Houston Endowment—the philanthropic foundation established by Jesse H. and Mary Gibbs Jones in 1937—to write a biographical sketch about the Joneses for the foundation's annual report. He then created a permanent exhibit about the Joneses for the foundation's new offices in the Chase Tower—the 70-floor skyscraper that replaced the small building where his family's first store had been located. Fenberg conducted an oral history program to record memories of people who knew the Joneses and was the executive producer and co-writer of "Brother, Can You Spare a Billion? The Story of Jesse H. Jones," an Emmy Award-winning PBS documentary film narrated by Walter Cronkite. Following the film, Fenberg wrote "Unprecedented Power: Jesse Jones, Capitalism and the Common Good," which was published by Texas A&M University Press in 2011. In addition to managing projects to restore and maintain knowledge about Jesse Jones, Fenberg produced the foundation's 200-plus page annual report for many years. He retired from Houston Endowment in 2013, and in 2022 returned to the foundation to help oversee the distribution of art and artifacts from its Chase Tower location in anticipation of Houston Endowment's move to new headquarters where Fenberg will curate and produce a new permanent exhibit about Jesse H. and Mary Gibbs Jones.
In 2016 Fenberg was executive producer and wrote "Remarkable Experiences," a documentary film celebrating the 50th anniversary of the Jesse H. Jones Hall for the Performing Arts and its influence on the performing arts in Houston. In 2019 he was executive producer and wrote "Ever Open," a documentary film celebrating the 75th anniversary of Congregation Emanu El, of which his grandparents Bennett and Eleanor Fenberg were founding members.
Fenberg is an active volunteer, public speaker and writer who most recently helped the Coalition for a National Infrastructure Bank promote a government-based lending institution to duplicate the strategies and successes of the RFC, the federal government bank chaired by Jesse Jones that saved capitalism during the Great Depression and militarized industry in time to fight and win World War II. He previously served on the advisory boards of AIDS Foundation Houston; the American Red Cross Museum in Washington, D.C.; Houston History Magazine; and No More Victims, a support agency for the children of incarcerated parents. He served as a trustee and is now an honorary trustee of the Aubrey and Sylvia Farb Community Service Fund.
Fenberg's collection covers his personal and professional life and includes material about Jesse Holman Jones. Jesse Jones, born in 1874 on his father's tobacco farm in rural Tennessee, moved to Houston in 1898 to manage his Uncle M.T. Jones's vast estate of timberland, sawmills and lumberyards. In partnership with the City of Houston, in 1906 he developed the streets in today's Midtown and began building small houses to sell on unique long-term installment plans so people with modest means could afford to buy homes. With the income from the mortgages and loans from Rice Institute (now Rice University) Jones built Houston's first three skyscrapers, each 10-floors tall. The Houston Chronicle building brought him a half-interest in the newspaper, which he later bought outright. The Texas Company building brought Texaco and the petroleum industry to Houston. The Bristol Hotel gave Houston one of its first luxury hotels. Jones would later fill up Houston's Main Street with its most ornate movie theaters, its most luxurious hotels and its tallest office towers. He also built significant skyscrapers in Fort Worth, Texas and New York City.
Jones raised Houston's half of the funds to develop the Houston Ship Channel and served as first chairman of the Houston Harbor Board. He served as Director General of Military Relief for the American Red Cross during World War I and afterwards became active in the Democratic National Party. He was the Party's finance chair from 1924 to 1928, and in 1928 brought the Democratic National Convention to Houston, the first major political convention to be held in the South since before the Civil War and one of the first to be widely received over radio.
President Herbert Hoover appointed Jones to the bi-partisan board of the RFC when he established it in 1932 to combat the calamity of the Great Depression. Shortly after his inauguration President Franklin Roosevelt made Jones RFC chair. Through judicious lending Jones and the RFC salvaged the United States economy during the Great Depression and militarized industry in time to fight and win World War II. As RFC chair, Jones was considered to be, after President Roosevelt, the most powerful person in the nation. He also served as secretary of commerce from 1940 to 1945.
Materials associated with Audrey Jones Beck—the Joneses' granddaughter—are included in the collection. Audrey and her husband John amassed the Audrey and John A. Beck Collection of impressionist and post-impressionist masterpieces, which Audrey donated to the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston after her husband's death.
Materials about Fenberg's family are also part of the archive. Fenberg's aunt Shirley Fenberg Barish, who moved to Houston with Eleanor and Bennett in 1944, became an acclaimed Jewish educator. Her husband Marvin Barish, who developed the Chair King into a national outdoor furniture store chain, is a prominent philanthropist in the Houston Jewish community. Fenberg's uncle Elby Fenberg served in World War II as a member of the 163rd Signal Corps and filmed the iconic explosion of the swastika on top of the Nuremberg Stadium and the capture of Berchtesgaren and Hitler's Eagle's Nest. Elby and his wife Marilyn managed Nolen's in West University on University Boulevard for many years and in the 1960s and 70s the store was known for its large selection of charms and bracelets.
Fenberg's father Morton grew up with his brother Elby and sister Shirley in Detroit, Michigan, with their parents Lillian and Jacob Albert Fenberg. His parents passed away when he and his siblings were young. Their aunt and uncle, Eleanor and Bennett Fenberg—Jacob's brother—adopted the three children. Morton and the family worked at the Colonial, his father's large department store in downtown Detroit on State Street, which Bennett took over after Jacob's death. Morton enlisted in the Army in 1941 and was honorably discharged as a Captain in 1946. After the war he served as the president of Nolen Jewelry Company and Phototex Sales Corp. He was a principal partner and developer of Bridge Harbor Marina, the first full-service marina developed in the early 1960s on the Texas Gulf Coast.
Fenberg's mother Lenore grew up in Brooklyn, New York and Rocky Mount, North Carolina, with her parents Lottie and Harry Berkowitz and brother Kenneth. She met her future husband Morton on a blind date while she was attending William and Mary College in Richmond, Virginia. They married in 1943 and had two children: Steven and his older brother Jay, who married Carole Mannheimer. Lenore was a community volunteer, the first woman of her generation to serve on the executive board of Congregation Emanu El and was a master salesperson who worked on sales floors until she was 86.
The three couples—Morton and Lenore, Shirley and Marvin and Elby and Marilyn—settled after World War II in Bellaire, Texas near Bennett and Eleanor's house on Post Oak Road and had eight children, who all attended Houston public schools and Congregation Emanu El. The three couples were part of the Big Eight Supper Club, which was established in 1950 by eight Jewish couples in Houston. The Club had a "scrambled supper" every month for over 60 years. Fenberg's collection contains two Big Eight scrapbooks.
Harry De Jonge, Fenberg's partner since 1993, grew up in Aalst, Belgium, with his parents Denise and Richard De Jonge and his brother Walter. Harry moved to the Netherlands in the 1970s, first attended the Academy of Dramatic Art in Utrecht and later became a registered nurse and practiced until he retired in 2010. He is an active and accomplished artist, and since they met the couple have divided their time between their apartment in Amsterdam near the intersection of Brouwersgracht and Prinsengracht and their home by the Brazos River near the Brazos Bend State Park.
This building was the precursor to the Jesse H. Jones Hall for the Performing ArtsLouis Berman and Ethel "Ettie" Kornweiser were born January 16, 1884, and July 30, 1889, respectively, in Slonim, Grodno Region, Poland in what is today Belarus. The two immigrated to the United States through New York in July 1905, eventually settling in Houston where Louis was a brick layer by trade. They were married June 9, 1907, and had nine children: Philip, David, Fanny, Rosalie, Joseph, Dorothy, Morris, Abraham, and Hymie, all born in Houston, with the exception of Philip who was born in Pennsylvania. Louis was a bricklayer by trade. Louis died May 27, 1951, and Ettie on March 22, 1977. Both are interred at Adath Israel Cemetery in Houston.
Louis and Ettie's son, David "Dave" Berman, was born October 15, 1909 in Houston. Anna Sohmers was born in Poland in 1915 and immigrated to the United States with her family in 1923. She and Dave were married in March of 1932 and had three children: Morton, Bernard, and Ida Sue. The family were members of Congregation Beth Yeshurun in Houston. When he was young, Dave was a member of the B.I.C. Club, which is said to stand for the Hebrew words meaning "Mighty Men of Israel." The club was organized in 1932 by young Jewish men interested in maintaining Jewish social contacts and enjoying athletic activities. Dave died October 8, 1969 and Anna on March 14, 2002 and both are interred at Brookside Memorial Park.
Born June 6, 1920 in New York to Samuel and Helen Blumberg, Bennet Leroy "Bill" Blumberg met his wife Helen Levinson while she was teaching at the University of Texas at Austin. The two married in 1944 while Bill was serving as a navigator in the Army Air Corps, and moved to New York after the birth of their daughter, Joan. In 1948, the family moved to Bellaire, where their second child Gary was born. 
Bill worked in advertising while Helen raised the children at home. In her free time, Helen volunteered at the Texas Children's Hospital, a practice she continued for more than 50 years. She also served in the Sisterhood of Congregation Emanu El and was on the Congregation's board of trustees. Bill passed away on August 25, 1981 when Helen was 58, and was buried in Emanu El Memorial Park. 
Named after Ethel Freda Kaczer, Temple Freda is one of the three oldest religious buildings still in use in Bryan, Texas, where it was restored by a group of citizens in 2013. Temple Freda is on the National Register of Historic Places of Texas and is used today as a center for community activities such as weddings, small receptions, and educational activities. 
Temple Freda maintains close connections with Jewish congregations in the area. When Texas A and M University Hillel opened up a building in College Station in 1958, many members of the then-temple began to attend services at the Hillel foundation building, which houses Temple Freda's Torah. Other congregants joined Congregation Beth Shalom when it was founded in 1968, and Temple Freda's cemetery is now under that congregation's care. The temple has also been a focus for Texas A and M University's Center of Heritage Conservation since 1982. 
Born in 1863, Henry Cohen was a British-American rabbi, scholar, community activist and writer. In 1885, he came to the United States, and, recognizing the needs of the thousands of immigrants coming from eastern and southern Europe, organized the Galveston Movement to attract immigrants to the Gulf Coast as an alternative to the more popular cities in the Northeast. He began his career as a rabbi for Congregation B'nai Israel in 1888, serving the community by organizing and leading many educational and community institutions until his retirement in 1949. An avid Talmud scholar, Cohen published a number of books about Texas history and Judaism. He also worked in concert with Rabbi David Lefkowitz to collect interviews of Jewish Texans for the Texas Centennial in 1936.
Shelby David Goodman is a Jewish architect who designed the Jewish Federation of Greater Houston Building and the Kaplan Museum of Judaica. In addition, he served on the 2008 Houston Jewish Film Festival Committee, regularly attended services at the Seven Acres religious committee, and was an attendee of Kallah—a teachers' convention held twice a year in Babylonian Academies, often addressing issues like marriage, chastity, and moral purity from the perspective of the Babylonian Talmud.
Jewish religious music has a long history, reaching back to the earliest temple music to today's contemporary take. The music featured in the Shelby Goodman collection is synagogal, including "nigumim"--generally wordless religious songs and tunes that are sung either by individuals or groups and associated with the Hassidic movement, and a version of "Hatikvah," a 19th century Jewish poem and the national anthem of Israel.
Rice's School of Humanities offers programs in disciplines traditionally associated with the humanities as well as pushing beyond disciplinary boundaries to explore what it means to be human in all its ramifications. Departments include: Art History; Classical and European Studies; English; History; Philosophy; Religion; Spanish, Portuguese and Latin American Studies; and Visual and Dramatic Arts. Five of these departments train graduate students for the PhD: Art History, English, History, Philosophy, and Religion. Excerpt from: https://humanities.rice.edu/
Robert Levy completed a Ph.D. in history at the University of California, Los Angeles, in 1998, and is well-known for his book "Ana Pauker: The Rise and Fall of a Jewish Communist." A staunch member of Temple B'nai Israel, Levy served on the Board of Trustees in 2019.
Founded in 1858, Congregation B'nai Israel is one of the oldest members of the Union for Reform Judaism (URJ), an organization that provides vision, direction and leadership to Reform Jews and congregations on spiritual, ethical, social justice and management issues. Its current synagogue has housed the congregation since 1954.
Though he was born in Vancouver, Canada, Phillip Dattle was raised in Houston. He attended Sam Houston High School, where he met his wife-to-be, Bertha. After serving in the Army until his honorable discharge in 1946, Phillip went on to own the Texas Star Scrap Metal company for nearly 50 years. Phillip and Bertha were married for 66 years, and had two daughters: Phyllis and Laura, the latter of whom donated the materials. Phillip passed away on February 4, 2011 at 91 years of age.
Chabad Lubavitch is a worldwide organization dedicated to serving Jews of all ages. Comprising multiple organizations and programs, Chabad Lubavitch of Texas provides the education and means to promote Jewish awareness, knowledge and practice through outreach, education and social services ensuring Jewish continuity. Texas is home to twenty-five Chabad-Lubavitch institutions, which, for many Jews in Texas, are the only place they can learn about their Jewish tradition. Centers service their respective communities with countless institutions and programs, including schools, synagogues, day camps, mikvaot and a growing variety of outreach, social service and educational opportunities for all ages. The Houston area has twelve centers, in the Southwest, League City / Bay Area, Cypress, Outreach, Sugar Land, West, Bellaire, Medical Center, Montrose, Rice University, Uptown/Galleria, and the Woodlands.
Morton Levy, a native Houstonian, graduated from high school in 1951. He received his Bachelor of Arts degree from Rice Institute in 1955 and his Bachelor of Science in Architecture, with distinction, from Rice in 1956. He founded his own architectural practice in 1963 and was licensed to practice architecture in Texas from 1960 through 2014. He was certified by the National Council of Architectural Registration Boards in 1972. His leadership in his profession was recognized by advancement to lifetime Fellowship in the American Institute of Architects (AIA) in 1983. He has served as president of the American Institute of Architects - Houston and is the only Jewish president of the Texas Society of Architects in its history. He served National AIA as Chair of the Continuing Education Committee. Included in his record of public service was Chairmanship, by mayoral appointment, of the Houston Commission on Disabilities.
His award-winning practice résumé included service as architectural consultant to the U.S. Postal Service for thirteen years, eighteen projects for the City of Houston Department of Health and Human Services, four projects for the Houston Independent School District, seven Houston area synagogues, and eight renovation/expansion projects for the Houston Jewish Community Center.
In addition to typical coverage in local newspapers, Levy's writings and buildings appeared in Architectural Record, Texas Architect, Architecture at Rice, The Jews in America, Building Stone magazine, NOMDA Spokesman magazine, Engineering News-Record, HomeCare magazine, AIA Perspective, and Sacred Places magazine. In recent years, he has been an active speaker and author on the subject of religious architecture. He retired from his practice in 2015.
Jean Merle Kanowitz Levy is a native of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, but moved with her family to Houston at the age of nine. A graduate of San Jacinto High School in Houston, Jean went on to receive a degree in Liberal Arts Studies from the University of Houston.
Morton and Jean married in 1960 and have three children: Nanette (1961), Jay (1965), and Lisa (1966).
Dora Ginsberg was born March 25, 1901, in Russia to Ben and Minnie (Asch) Ginsberg. Her father immigrated to the United States in 1901, and the rest of the family followed in 1903. Dora and her four siblings grew up in San Antonio. Samuel S. Daum was born in Austin March 6, 1898, to Joseph and Annie Daum. Sam and Dora were married in 1923, and the couple had one child, Arthur, born September 17, 1930, in Houston. Sam made his living as a bookkeeper for different types of businesses over the years, including dry goods, candy, and furniture. Dora was very active with the Houston area Hadassah chapter among other organizations. She was diagnosed with Muscular Sclerosis around 1949, and died August 4, 1956. Sam died June 21, 1961. Both are buried at Beth Yeshurun Cemetery in Houston.
Marian Edith Peterman was born in Galveston December 16, 1930, to Irving and Leah (Zinn) Peterman. Arthur Daum married Marian in 1953, and the couple had three children, including Deborah "Debbie" Cay Daum. Marian attended the University of Texas at Austin, where she was actively involved with the Texas Hillel. She was very active within the Houston Jewish community and received many awards and distinctions from Camp Young Judaea and Hadassah.
Debbie Daum was born in Houston, April 1957. She graduated from Bellaire High School in 1975 and married David Gersh in 1995.
Rush Moody, Jr. was born July 21, 1930 in Alpine, Texas. He grew up in Houston, graduating from John Reagan High School in 1948. He attended Rice Institute for two years before transferring to the University of Texas to pursue a joint BBA/JD degree. After taking a leave of absence to serve in the U.S. Air Force as an intelligence officer stationed at Warren Robins Airbase, he returned to complete his law studies, graduating in 1956 and being admitted to the Texas Bar that same year. He then returned to Houston to take a position with the Baker, Botts, Andrews, Shepherd law firm. In 1960 he resigned from this firm and moved to Midland, Texas to join Stubbman, McRae, Sealy, Laughlin and Browder, becoming a partner in 1963.
With support from Senator John Tower, Moody was appointed in 1971 by President Richard Nixon to a five-year term on the Federal Power Commission. He served ably for three years but found himself increasingly often voting in dissent regarding the Commission's continued regulation of interstate natural gas prices under the Federal Power Act. In 1975 Moody ultimately resigned, in his resignation letter urging President Gerald Ford to pursue a legislative solution to end the natural gas shortages then troubling the Atlantic Seaboard states. He was then appointed by Texas Governor Dolph Briscoe to serve as special counsel, advising him and Lt. Gov. Bill Hobby on energy policy. At this time Moody also helped Senator Lloyd Bentsen draft what became the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978.
Moody returned to Washington in 1977, working at a number of Texas-based firms to help them develop their energy practice groups. During this time he helped John G. McMillian organize and finance a consortium to build the first natural gas export pipeline from Prudhoe Bay, Alaska to the lower 48 states. After joining Andrews Kurth he went on to serve as managing partner from 1992 until his retirement in 1996. He and his family moved that year from Chevy Chase to Trappe, Maryland, where he died on November 5, 2015.
Flor Guinhawa is a prominent member of the Filipino-American community in Texas. He holds the position of State Deputy Director of the Philippine-American Chamber of Commerce Texas. He is known for philanthropy in enabling Philippine students to pursue educational goals.
Born in 1856, Robert I. Cohen was raised in London, England. He left school at a young age to work at his father's antique shop, immigrating to the United States in 1872 through Boston, where he joined a mercantile firm. Cohen spent the next five years travelling, eventually settling in Galveston, where he worked for four years under merchants Levy and Weiss. He left to start his own business with a succession of partners over several years. Cohen married Agnes Lord in 1882, and together they had three children. 
In 1889 Cohen founded "Robert I Cohen," a men's clothing store, a venture that quickly proved successful as Cohen made his mark with innovations in advertising and window displays. The store evolved over several years into a leading department store as Cohen added merchandise. Subsequently, Cohen organized Galveston's first Retail Merchants Organization, and in 1917 purchased the Foley Brothers Dry Goods store of Houston with his son—explosive growth leading the store to become one of the largest department stores in the South and Southwest. 
In 1919 Cohen became secretary and treasurer of the Houston Mill and Elevator Company, of which he eventually became president. Cohen also served as treasurer of the Hebrew Benevolent Society and of the United Charities of Galveston, as well as president of Congregation B'nai Israel for thirty years. He died on October 15, 1934, and was buried in the Hebrew Benevolent Association Cemetery. 
Born, on September 11, 1946, in Comanche, Texas, Shirley Wetzel spent much of her youth travelling around the United States with her mother and sister to accommodate her father's career in the Navy. When he retired, the family settled in Texas, where Shirley graduated from South Oak Cliff High School before attending two years at Navarro College, then finishing her B.A. in Psychology at Texas Tech. 
In September of 1967, Shirley married Don Alan Wetzel and spent the next two years working at Goodwill Industries and the Waco V.A. Hospital to help put Don through law school at Baylor University. In February of 1970 Don joined the Army Judge Advocate General Corps, and the family moved to Fort Eustis, Virginia, and had their first son, Christopher Baylor Wetzel. The couple's second son, Jeffrey Alan, was born in Bangkok, Thailand, where the family spent several years before settling in Houston in June of 1974. Don clerked for a federal judge, joined Baker Botts Law Firm for a short while, and worked for other firms and for himself, while Shirley started graduate school in the Anthropology Dept. of Rice University. 
During her time as an anthropology student at Rice, Shirley worked under Frank Hole and with Texas Anderson doing primary archaeological and historical research on the 1890 Nottingham Lace Factory site (41GV71) in Galveston Island. Her research (Wetzel 1980), along with that of Texas Anderson (1980), produced a detailed history of the short-lived factory. They also found archival evidence that the developers platted the community of Nottingham around the factory. 
Shirley and Don separated amicably, and Shirley left her Ph.D to pursue a different track, moving up from her temporary job as a student worker in Fondren Library at Rice to a staff position, and later supplementing her work with a degree in Library and Information Science. Shirley continued her work as a librarian at Rice University for over 25 years, writing and publishing several essays and historical stories in her free time. 
While the start date is unclear, Rice Broadcast Television [RBT] began original programming on October 29, 1998 with a topical news show focused on worldwide and Rice news stories. In that year, RBT received funding from the Vice President of Student Affairs office. In March 1999, RBT became a blanket tax student organization.
RBT continued in this way until April 2005 when it changed its name to Rice Television 5 [RTV5].
In Fall 2015, RTV5's leadership changed the club's name to Rice Video Productions [RVP]. Since they avoided going through the Student Association for this re-brand, they almost lost their funding access during a general election referendum. On January 23, 2017, RVP requested to no longer receive Blanket Tax Committee funding, because they considered that their mission included filming student events, but also original programming. The Student Association respected RVP's request and dissolved funding on January 30th.
RVP's YouTube shows that the group continued to upload content to the social media network, with the last group of videos uploaded on February 25, 2017.
Over its lifespan, the club mainly filmed events for other clubs and student events like Lunar New Year, Soul Night, and Beer Bike. It also dabbled at different times in original programming.
Established in 1854, Congregation Beth Israel is one of the oldest Jewish congregations in Texas, and boasts a long and fascinating history. A center of the national Reform Jewish movement, the congregation serves more than 1,600 households throughout the greater Houston area. The campus can be found in Southwest Houston and offers weekly Shabbat Services, Torah study, and a number of educational, cultural, and social programs. Congregation Beth Israel also supports a religious school in the Miriam Browning Jewish Learning Center, and the Shlenker school, providing over 800 students with quality education, grounded in Jewish values. The clergy team is currently (2019) led by Senior Rabbi David Lyon. 
A famous figure on the Houston Jewish scene, Rabbi Hyman Judah Schachtel served as the Senior Rabbi at Congregation Beth Israel from 1943 to 1975, and as Rabbi Emeritus from 1975 to 1990. Hugely influential, Schachtel wrote a number of books including "The Real Enjoyment of Living" and "The Life You Want to Live," hosted his own radio show on KODA-FM, and delivered the inaugural prayer for President Lyndon B. Johnson in Washington D.C. in 1965.
Families immigrated to Texas from China and have lived in Waco, San Antonio, Houston, as well as Los Angeles and Boston. Shok Ling Gor (the father of Fay Yook Gor and three other sons) was a San Francisco paper son in the 1930s who was joined by Fay Yook Gor in 1936. Fay Yook Gor returned to China and married Foy Kin Chow in 1947. Fay Yook Gor then moved to Houston in 1949, opening the Fay Food Market. By 1968 Fay Kin Chow became a naturalized citizen and took the name Fay Kin Gor. The other sons of Shok Ling Gor spread across America while Fay Yook Gor continued to build a life for his family across Houston.
The origins of the Jewish Federation of Greater Houston date to 1936, when a committee led by Rebecca Nathan was charged by Houston Jewish communal leaders, including Joe Weingarten and Simon Sakowitz, to explore the establishment of an organization that would oversee Jewish philanthropic and social welfare activities in a centralized fashion. The first meeting of the Jewish Community Council was called by Max H. Nathan, Rebecca's husband, in April 1936. Subsequently, in November of that year, Max Nathan was elected the first president of the Council, while M.M. (Mose) Feld became vice-president and Abram Geller served as secretary-treasurer. The Council acquired office space in the West building in downtown Houston, and in 1937, Jacob Lightman, previously with the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee, was hired as the organization's first Executive Director. In 1977, the Council changed its name to the Jewish Federation of Greater Houston.
The central mission of the organization in its early years was the United Jewish Campaign, an effort to unify the fundraising efforts of the Houston Jewish community and to raise funds for Jewish causes both at home and abroad. The resources of the Council were put to the test during the 1940s, when more than 400 Jewish refugees came to Houston fleeing Nazi persecution. A Refugee Services Committee was organized to assist these men and women with employment, housing, and other needs. The records of this committee are included in the collection.
In the decades since its founding, the Jewish Federation of Greater Houston has been engaged in advocacy on behalf of Israel, Jews in the former Soviet Union, and other international causes. Closer to home, the Federation supports a variety of community initiatives, from philanthropic gifts to Jewish education to senior care.
Notable executive directors who have guided the Federation include Hans Mayer, who served from 1977 to 1996, and Lee Wunsch, who served as President and CEO from 1999 to 2017. As of 2018, the President and CEO of the Federation is Avital Ingber.
Website: https://www.houstonjewish.org/
Founded in 1978, Stages has grown to become Houston's leading mid-sized theatre company, the city's sixth largest nonprofit performing arts producer overall, and the largest outside of Houston's downtown theatre district. Stages is one of the region's leading artistic employers, producing an average of 12 productions per year totaling more than 380 performances and welcoming 65,000+ visitors each season.
Herman Brown, born in Belton, Texas in 1892, and Margarett Root, born in 1895, were married in 1917. Having begun doing construction work in Belton in 1914 and being paid in used equipment and mules, Herman formed a business which his brother-in-law Dan Root joined in 1919. They were in turn joined by Herman's younger brother George in 1922. For the first twenty years their work was primarily road paving and bridge building throughout Texas. In 1942, with federal government involvement through freshman congressman Lyndon Baines Johnson, they completed a 1.3-mile-long dam near Austin.
World War II prompted the company's expansion into ship-building, and it produced 359 destroyer escorts and other ship types. After the war Brown and Root expanded by acquiring (for $143 million) the U.S. government's Big Inch and Little Big Inch pipelines (originally built to replace tanker ships vulnerable to German submarines).
In 1951 Herman and George Brown and their wives set up the Brown Foundation, which has made large gifts beginning with Rice University, Southwestern University (Margarett Root Brown's alma mater), and the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston.
Two children joined the family of Herman and Margarett Brown, who had no children of their own. Louisa and Michael Stude were adopted and raised by the Browns but kept their birth names because their natural parents were still living.
Herman Brown died on November 15, 1962, and Margarett followed in 1963. To honor the memory of Margarett, George Brown and his wife Alice donated funds used to establish a residential college at Rice University. Margarett Root Brown College was dedicated October 3, 1965.
The earliest known origin of the Greenfield family is in Tsfat, Palestine, in 1882. The Greenfields were a family of rabbis with Eliezer Greenfield being the most well-known. The Greenfield children began immigrating to the United States in the early twentieth century.
Oyser (Oscar) Greenfield was the first to immigrate – entering through the port of Galveston in 1906. Oscar was born in Palestine in 1879. He married Chaya Rochel (Rachel) Cohen and the two had nine children between 1900 and 1919. Rachel died in Houston on 22 December 1946 and Oscar died on 23 January 1956. Both are buried at Adath Israel cemetery in Houston. The rest of the Greenfield family, including Oscar's five sisters and two brothers, immigrated over the next decade. Eventually, Rabbi Eliezer Greenfield came to the United States around 1928. He died in 1930 and is buried in Safed, Israel, with his wife Rachel Nathan Greenfield.
Oscar Greenfield's younger brother Morris was born 1893, in Palestine and immigrated to the United States around 1912. He married Bessie Peters (Polycov) in Houston, May 1915. The couple had two sons, Max and Joseph. Morris and his nephew, Nathan Lohr, opened Greenfield Bros. General Merchandise on Runnels Street in Houston shortly after arriving in the United States. Later, Morris owned and operated a junk yard for many years and owned a liquor store at the time of his death in 1964. Bessie was born in 1897 and died in 1960. Both are buried at Beth Yeshurun cemetery in Houston along with other members of the Greenfield family, including Morris's younger brother, Jacob Behr Greenfield. Jacob Greenfield donated $50,000 for the chapel located in the old Southmore Blvd. location of Beth Yeshurun, known today as the J.B. Greenfield chapel.
Max Greenfield was born 18 March 1916, in Houston. He married Francine Loeser in 1938 and the couple had two children, Larry (b. 1939) and Ronald (b. 1943, d. 1992). Francine was born in Louisville, Kentucky, 12 July 1917, and grew up in Shreveport, Louisiana. Max worked in real estate in the Houston area and died 5 August 1967. Francine died in 1997, and is buried with Max at Emanu El cemetery in Houston.
Larry Greenfield grew up in Houston and attended Sunday School at Congregation Beth Israel as a child. He has been a member at Congregation Emanu El since 1950 – bar mitzvah there in 1952, and confirmed in 1956. Larry's future wife, Marianne Duval, joined Emanu El the year before he did and the two married in 1959.
Daniel Schlanger was born in Houston, Texas, on 22 January 1902, to Louis Nathan Schlanger and Hinda Schlanger after emigrating from Germany. He grew up in Houston and, following graduation in May of 1919 from the City of Houston Normal and High School, he attended University of Texas Law School. Daniel practiced law in Houston and was a senior partner at Schlanger, Cook and Cohn. Daniel was very active in the Houston Jewish Community, serving as president of the Jewish Community Center, Southern Region National Jewish Welfare Board, Jewish Community Council, Temple Beth El, and Jewish Home for the Aged.
Rella Greenberg was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, on 8 July 1908, to Samuel Charles (S.C.) and Katie Greenberg. Rella's family emigrated from Russia to Pittsburgh, where the family would later own a retail store. The family moved to Texas to pursue the oil business. Daniel and Rella met while Daniel was working as the Greenberg's lawyer. Rella and Daniel married 26 May 1937, at Congregation Beth El in Houston. They had one son, Lee Schlanger, born 4 April 1940.
Daniel Schlanger died on 31 January 1973, and Rella Schlanger died on 28 September 1995. Both are buried at Emanu El Memorial Park.
Jeanmarie Amend attended Rice University from 1979 to 1982. She majored in English, wrote for the Thresher and was member of Jones college. The collection contains notes, essays, and exams from several of the classes Jeanmarie was taking her senior year, including Shakespeare, American Poetry, French, and Medical Ethics--as well as samples of her writing throughout high school and college 
Jeanmarie had two younger siblings--Charlotte and Matthew. After college, Jeanmarie considered a number of options, including graduate school at the University of Houston, teaching abroad, opening her own food bank to assist homeless children and young adults, and working as a public affairs writer in the private sector. 
Jacob Gaber and Ernestina Grunberg Gaber were born in Romania and married in Bucharest in 1896. In 1900, the two immigrated to Houston where they founded the J. Gaber Company, a dry goods and plumbing supplies company. They had four children, Hermina, Fred, Sophie, and Leo. Jacob died on November 3, 1927, and Ernestina died on January 2, 1963. Both are buried at Beth Yeshurun Cemetery.
Hermina was born November 22, 1897 in Romania. She married Morris Rosen on December 14, 1919, and died on August 26, 1981. She is also buried at Beth Yeshurun Cemetery. Sophie was born on June 4, 1903, in Houston, Texas. She married Leo Block in 1922, and died on April 2, 1994, in Houston. Leo Gaber was born on June 11, 1904. He followed in his father's footsteps and ran the family business. Leo Gaber married Morelle Solman on June 14, 1927.
Morelle's father Phillip Solman was born in Riga, Latvia on July 15, 1867 and immigrated to the United States in 1887. Morelle's mother, Hattie Perlstein, born 1872, immigrated to the United States in 1889. Phillip Solman and Hattie Perlstein married on August 23, 1891, in Houston, Texas. The Solmans were grocers and had four children: Libbie, Winnie, Jerome Benjamin, and Morelle. Libbie Solman was born October 10, 1892, and married Ben Scheps. She died October 31, 1963, and is buried at Beth Israel. Jerome Benjamin Solman was born on February 15, 1902, and died January 3, 1968. Morelle Solman was born on April 28, 1908.
Morelle and Leo Gaber had one son, Jacob Arnold (J.A.) Gaber, born on March 30, 1930. J.A. also followed his father into the family business and the Gaber Company later became primarily a plumbing supply company. Morelle died on November 22, 1986. Leo died on September 23, 1990. Both are buried at Beth Yeshurun Cemetery.
J.A. Gaber married Sara Jo (Dodie) Kline on May 14, 1952, in Houston, Texas. Dodie Kline was born in Houston on July 29, 1934, to Harry J. Kline from Tyler, Texas, and Adrienne Fibush Kline from Oakland, California. J.A. and Dodie Gaber had four children: Bradley Edward, Gwynne, Kerry Wayne, and Ellen Ann. Bradley Edward was born August 17, 1954. He married Ellen Brodsky in 1978, and died on June 30, 2012. Gwynne Gaber was born June 2, 1956, and married Alan Ross in 1979. Kerry Wayne, was born September 12, 1958, and married Mary Perrinod in 1981. Ellen Ann was born August 3, 1962, and married Marc Sands.
J.A. Gaber died on February 18, 2017.
Born in 1949, Gigi Yellen-Kohn is a native Houstonian. With a natural ear for music, Gigi was early inspired to pursue her musical passions. She explored rhythm and music history at Wellesley College during her undergrad, where she studied under America's future poet Laureate Robert Pinsky. As a graduate student in Spanish at Rice University, Gigi's pursuits at the campus station KTRU led her to become the first female announcer on Houston's classical music station, then known as KLEF.
Though Gigi settled in Seattle in 1986, she has interviewed, hosted, and written about classical music for radio stations as far removed as Washington D.C., where she produced arts features for NPR. Married to a professor at the University of Washington and the loving mother of two sons, Gigi's music-related writings can be found in print and online.
Many of the documents also feature Gigi's father, David Yellen. Native to Beaumont, First Lieutenant David Yellen served in the armed forces for three years during World War II. He spent ten months serving in the European theater, seeing action in Belgium and Germany before being stationed with Infantry forces in England.
Before the war, Mr. Yellen was employed by Sampson Iron Works. He went into business for himself as a dealer in scrap metals not long after the war. His business was called AA Iron & Metal. The name AA was inspired from the corner he and his wife lived on at the time in the Axelrad building located at the corner of Alabama and Alameda. The name also had the added benefit of placing his company first in the Yellow Pages.
Janice Rubin grew up in Fort Worth, Texas, and graduated from R.L. Paschal High School. She graduated from Rice University in 1976 and has been a Houston-based photographer since that time. She specializes in corporate and editorial photography. Known for creating warm, intimate portraits with strong emotional content, and graphic, poignant editorial shots, her clients include major corporations and institutions: ExxonMobil, The Ford Foundation, Allstate, The Houston Grand Opera, The Houston Symphony, Amnesty International, M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, and numerous others. Her work has appeared in publications in the United States and Europe including Smithsonian, Newsweek, Town and Country, Fortune, Rolling Stone, the New York Times, American Photographer, Esquire, Forbes, Geo, Harpers, L'Express, London Times, Ms. Magazine, Texas Monthly, and the Washington Post Magazine. Janice has exhibited internationally. She was the recipient of a National Endowment for the Arts Fellowship for her participation in the travelling exhibit "The Ties that Bind: Photographers Look at The American Family." Her most widely seen touring exhibitions are "Survival of the Spirit: Jewish Lives in the Soviet Union," which toured 17 cities in the U.S. and Canada from 1987-1989, and "The Mikvah Project," which toured 34 cities in the U.S. and Europe from 2001-2015. Her work is included in the permanent collection of The Museum of Fine Arts, Houston. In addition to Rice, her photography archive is housed at the University of Houston Library, Special Collections.
She has been a member of the American Society of Media Photographers (ASMP) since 1986, and served as a board member of the Houston Center for Photography from 1988 through 1994. She served the City of Houston as a member of the Houston Municipal Arts Commission, 1986-1994, and Arts Task Force - Cultural Arts Council of Houston, 1991-1993, both Mayoral appointments.
In addition to photography, Janice serves as a hospital and hospice chaplain. Janice is also an educator, a lifelong musician, and recording artist.
Janice Rubin married artist Charles Wiese in Houston on 26 May 1991. Their son, Jacob, was born in 1995.
Karen Rubinsky grew up in Galveston, Texas. She earned two bachelor's degrees with high honors from the University of Texas at Austin: one in mathematics and one in computer science. She earned her master's degree in business administration with a concentration in management information systems from the University of Houston.
Karen is Assistant Vice President for Development and Alumni Operations at Rice University. Prior to going to Rice in 1993, Karen worked for 12 years at First City Bancorporation of Texas. Karen began her career as a programmer/analyst at Brown & Root, Inc. in Houston.
In addition to her work at Rice, Karen is active on committees of several nonprofit organizations in the Houston community.
Excerpt from: https://dar.rice.edu/karen-rubinsky
Irving Weinstein was born in Galveston, Texas on March 8, 1912, and moved to Houston with his family in 1929. Irving graduated from Ball High School, the University of Oklahoma, and the University of Texas Dental School. In 1940, he married Lily Chernikowski Weinstein, his wife of 72 years. During World War II, Irving served as a member of the 8th Engineers, First Cavalry Division. He participated in landings on the Admiralty Islands, and was later sent to Brisbane, Australia where he directed and supervised the dental clinic of the 383rd Medical Dispensary. In 1946, he returned to his general dentistry practice in Houston and practiced for another 50 years. A longtime member of Congregation Beth Israel, Irving was also a life member of the Texas Dental Association, the Harris County Dental Society, Masonic Lodge Temple No.4, Scottish Rite and Arabia Shrine. 
Lily Chernikowski Weinstein was born in Zurich, Switzerland, on Dec. 18, 1917, and moved with her family to Houston in 1923. She married Irving in 1940, and volunteered her time in numerous civic, educational, and charitable organizations during World War II. A life member of the Texas State Dental Auxiliary, the City of Hope, and the San Jacinto High School Alumni Association, Lily was also a member of congregation Beth Israel. Irving and Lily had two children, Jay and Riki Weinstein. 
On October 12, 1972, a group of young Jewish people met for the first time in the Kendall Branch Public Library on Memorial Drive to discuss the possibility of starting a Congregation to serve the needs of the increasing number of Jewish families settling in the Memorial-Northwest area of Houston. The need for a West Houston synagogue was recognized at that first meeting.
Interest in forming a synagogue spread quickly and by January 1973, seventy people had already formed committees, held a Hanukkah service and agreed that a religious school was a necessity.
the first Board election was held in April 1973, and that month the members voted to become a conservative congregation. Within a six-month period both a Sisterhood and a Men's Club were formed, an ark was built to house the newly acquired Torah and Rabbi Irwin Halpern became the congregation's first spiritual leader and school administrator. Jerard Y. Cohen became the first President of the congregation.
In 1975 Beth Am purchased a facility on Brittmoore Road. As the membership continued to grow a new sanctuary, kitchen, and offices were added. The youth group, Beth Am Synagogue Youth, was also created around this time.
As the years passed the members decided that further growth was hampered by the somewhat industrial location of the synagogue. As a part of that decision, Congregation Beth Am merged with Congregation Or Hadash in 2001 and became Congregation Or Ami.
Sandra Block was elected president of Congregation Beth Am in the 1979.
Donated by Tania Oshman, the Tania Brown Family Papers chiefly concern Tania's parents, Rachel Mayer Brown and Frank Brown. Rachel was born in 1923, grew up on Hadley Street in Houston, and was deeply involved in the Hadassah movement. Frank was born in 1918, and grew up in St. Louis Missouri. Frank was a member of the 242nd Infantry Regiment during World War II, where he spent time at Camp Hood in Killeen, Texas, working a quartermaster job as a staff sergeant. He was transferred to Camp Gruber in Muskogee, Oklahoma in the middle of 1943, and worked as a Supply Sergeant for over a year before going to Marseille in December of 1944. 
The Rainbow Division began in World War I with the combined National Guard units from 26 different states. It was ostensibly named for Chief of Staff Douglas MacArthur's comment that the division "stretches like a rainbow from one end of America to the other." After the war, the Division formed the Rainbow Division Veterans Association, featured in the collection. The Division was reformed for World War II with new personnel, and joined by Frank Brown during his time in the armed services. 
Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, works to improve the health and well-being of Women and its commitment to Jewish values. The organization focuses on connecting and empowering Jewish Women in order to effect change, and build a strong community. 
Dr. George C. Y. Chiou was born in Taoyuan, Taiwan in 1934, and after earning B.S. and M.S. degrees at National Taiwan University, in 1964 he emigrated to the U. S. to pursue a doctoral degree in pharmacology at Vanderbilt University. His wife and two daughters remained in Taiwan for a year and a half but then joined him in Nashville. On completion of his doctoral degree, in 1969 he was hired by the medical school of the University of Florida as assistant professor of pharmacology. Then in 1978 Dr. Chiou was hired away from the University of Florida Medical School to be head of the Department of Medical Pharmacology at the Texas A & M University School of Medicine Health Science Center. To his teaching and research he added administrative duties, serving as assistant dean in 1985-86 and associate dean 1987 to 1990.
The focus of Dr. Chiou's research has been the development of new drugs for eye diseases. It has resulted in approximately thirty patents and has been recognized with awards such as the 2006 Excellence in Research Award by the College of Medicine, Texas A & M Health Science Center and the 2007 Patent and Innovation Award by the Office of Technology Communication, Texas A & M System. The first of the treatments developed by Dr. Chiou was the use of D-timolol to treat glaucoma. Developing eyedrops for the delivery of insulin was another achievement, and it was followed by discovery of a drug compound, MC-1101, that can potentially treat and halt the progression of dry age-related macular degeneration. Dr. Chiou has had the support of the Texas A & M Office of Technology Commercialization to bring this product to market. The name of the resulting company is MacuCLEAR.
The bibliography of Dr. Chiou's authored and co-authored papers includes 265 items. He was the founding editor of the Journal of Ocular Pharmacology and Therapeutics, of which the 2004 volume is the twentieth. He was also the editor of two editions of Ophthalmic Toxicology, a book intended for a wide variety of readers in academia, industry, clinics, research laboratories, and government agencies.
In addition to his position in the College of Medicine at Texas A & M, between 1986 and 1995 Dr. Chiou also held adjunct professorships in the Center for Biotechnology and the Department of Ophthalmology at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston. In recognition of his accomplishments, in 2011 he was promoted to Regents Professor in the Department of Neuroscience and Experimental Therapeutics of the College of Medicine at Texas A & M, and in 2015 he became Regents Professor Emeritus.
Gus Buck is a chapter of the B'Nai B'rith Youth Organization, a pluralistic Jewish teen movement with hundreds of chapters across North America and in 50 countries around the world. BBYO reaches over 80,000 teens annually and serves as the Jewish community's largest platform for connecting Jewish youth. The banner was presented by Rosanna Kudisch & Ira Richter in 1966, and is emblazoned with the words "Let Your Dreams be Tossed and Turned... Reality."
Abraham and Gertrude Katie Platt Katz immigrated from Russia to the United States in 1891, with their children: Israel, Jacob, and Bertha. Their fourth child, Sara, was born in the United States. The family settled in Galveston and later moved to Houston. Gertrude died in 1831 and Abraham died in 1832. Both are buried at Beth Yeshurun Cemetery in Houston.
Jacob Katz was born in 1885 in Russia and immigrated with his parents and siblings to the United States in 1891. He married Anna Kalmans in Houston and the couple had three children: Minnie (1913-1999), Leah (1915-1999), and Benjamin. Anna had also immigrated from Russia with her parents, Max (1857-1937) and Fannie Getz Kalmans (1861-1951), and siblings. Jacob was a proprietor of a grocery store in Houston when he died unexpectedly in 1921. Anna Katz died in 1992, and both she and Jacob are buried at Beth Yeshurun Cemetery in Houston.
Benjamin Lee Katz was born November 12, 1919, in Houston. A graduate of San Jacinto High School, he enlisted in the Army in April 1942 and served in the Philippines until the end of World War II. He returned from the war and worked for Battlestein's and Southern Coffee Company before taking the position as Executive Director of Congregation Beth Yeshurun in 1957. Mr. Katz held that position for 30 years and was also an active leader of B'nai Brith, the National Association of Synagogue Administrators, and the Houston Chapter of the National Association of Church Business Administrators.
Ben married Hortense Levinson in December 1947. The couple had two children: Jean (1950-2017) and Martha, born 1952. Hortense died in 1984 and Ben died in 2016 at the age of 96. Both are buried at Beth Yeshurun Cemetery.
Raised in Houston, Rabbi Robert (Bob) Lewis Samuels was born in 1933. He attended Lanier Junior High School, San Jacinto High School, and then Brandeis University before marrying Annette Colish. The couple moved to Cincinnati, Ohio, where Bob was ordained as a Reform rabbi, and in 1962, he and Annette made aliyah to Israel, where they raised their three children and committed themselves to building a movement of Progressive Judaism. 
Rabbi Samuels became the second headmaster of the Leo Baeck School in Haifa, building during his 25 years at its helm not only a secondary school, but also a school for children from preschool through high school, and a community center at Leo Baeck. He also established two synagogues in Haifa and mentored many leaders of the Reform Movement in Israel and North America. 
Rabbi Samuels struggled for the rights of Conservative and Progressive Jews, helping sustain the Reform Movement in Israel for more than 50 years. A founding member of the Israeli Council of Progressive Rabbis, and the Israel Movement for Reform and Progressive Judaism, the Rabbi was also deeply involved in helping to resettle Ethiopian Jews, and was recognized with the Carmel Award of Merit by Haifa University. 
Mitchell Louis Westheimer: Born in Baden, Germany, on August 22, 1831, Mitchell Louis Westheimer moved to Texas in the 1850s, and married Babette Betty Hirsch on August 26, 1860. Westheimer became naturalized as an American citizen in 1867, and with his wife raised sixteen children: eight of their own, three orphans, and five children of relatives. Westheimer purchased at auction a 640-acre tract extending from what is now Bellaire Boulevard north beyond what is now Westheimer Road in Houston. The tract became known as the Westheimer Plantation. It featured a large, plantation-style residence on the site of present Lamar High School, stables for the livery, and a racetrack. In the 1860s Houston had no public schools, so Westheimer built a school on his farm, hired a teacher, and allowed area children to attend free. A miller by trade, Westheimer owned a flour mill in Houston, became a hay merchant in the 1850s and 1860s, and built the first streetcar rails in Houston. He spoke seven languages and often served as an interpreter for the bank and post office. Beginning in the 1880s Westheimer opened the Houston Livery Stable and eventually brought over five nephews from Germany--Max, Sidney, Adolf, Sigmund J., and David. Some of his nephews formed in 1883 the Westheimer Transfer and Storage Company, which has been in operation ever since, and a funeral home. Westheimer and his family became leaders in Congregation Beth Israel, the oldest continually active affiliated synagogue in Texas, and he served as an officer and trustee of the congregation in the 1870s and 1880s. In 1895 Westheimer dedicated a portion of the land from his plantation to Harris County to provide right-of-way for a short-cut road to Columbus and Sealy. This road was denominated Westheimer Road and runs west from near downtown Houston over thirty miles to Fulshear. It is the longest major thoroughfare in Texas. M. L. Westheimer died at St. Joseph's Infirmary on August 2, 1905, at 3:45pm following an operation. He was buried at Beth Israel Cemetery in Houston.
Biographical note provided courtesy of the Texas State Historical Association.
Dr. Robert Irving Kahn: Rabbi Emeritus of Congregation Emanu El, and a beloved teacher, preacher, and shepherd for thousands of his congregants and many others across the city and the nation, Rabbi Kahn preached and lectured all over the U.S., but had perhaps the greatest effect on his chosen home city, Houston. Born in Des Moines, Iowa in 1910 to Morris and Sadie Kohn, Kahn entered a joint program at the University of Cincinnati and the Hebrew Union College at sixteen, graduation with a B.A. in 1932, and becoming ordained as a rabbi in 1935. He later returned to school for a Doctorate of Hebrew Letters in 1950, and earned an honorary Doctorate of Divinity in 1960 from the Hebrew Union College. Shortly after graduating, Rabbi Kahn came to Houston to be Assistant Rabbi at Temple Beth Israel, where he worked under the influential Rabbis Henry Barnston, Henry Cohen, and Samuel Rossinger, and Bishop Michael Quinn. In 1939, Bob Kahn met his wife of 62 years Rozelle Rosenthal, and they married in 1940. A year later, Rabbi Kahn volunteered for service as a wartime chaplain and served in a series of posts including New Guinea and the Philippines with the 6th Medical Battalion of the 6th Infantry Division, leaving Rozelle at home with the first of their three children, Alfred. Rabbi Kahn returned home when the congregation Emanu El formed in Houston, and the synagogue leaders asked him to become their rabbi. He served Emanu El as Senior Rabbi for 33 years, and in 1978 became Rabbi Emeritus, making his mark on the community as a visiting lecturer at the HUC-JIR, and as faculty of the University of Houston, St. Thomas University, and St. Mary's Seminary. Rabbi Kahn also wrote a weekly column, "Lessons for Life," for 25 years, and authored several books, including "Lessons for Life, Ten Commandments for Today," "The Letter and the Spirit," and "The Words of My Mouth," a collection of his sermons published by his congregants following his retirement. Throughout his long life, Rabbi Kahn served as President of the Houston Rabbinical Association, the Kallah of Texas Rabbis, and President of the Central Conference of American Rabbis, in addition to serving on the Boards of the Alumni Association of his seminary, the Union of American Hebrew Congregations, the World Union for Progressive Judaism, the Alumni Board of Overseers of the HUC-JIR, and the North American Board of the World Union of Progressive Judaism. Rabbi Kahn was also a dedicated Houstonian, serving on numerous social agency boards, including Red Cross, Boy Scouts, Travelers Aid, Mental Health, Muscular Dystrophy, Houston Metropolitan Ministries, United Way, the Herman Eye Clinic, and the Rothko Chapel. He was a member of B'nai B'rith, of which he became president, the Masons, Scottish Rite, and the Shriners. He was president of the Houston Rotary Club and was its District Governor, Grand Chaplain of the Grand Lodge of Texas, and Chaplain of the Arabia Shrine Temple of Houston, the Houston Police Department, and the American Legion. In addition, he was a member of the Rabbinic Advisory Committee of the United Jewish Appeal. Rabbi Kahn was honored by the Boy Scouts of America with the Silver Beaver and the Ner Tamid Awards; by the Freedom Foundation with a George Washington Medal; by the French Government for service to veterans; by the Masonic Order with the 33rd Degree; by the Zionist Organization of America District with the Robert I. Kahn Lodge; and by the State of Israel with the Prime Minister's Medal for Israel Bonds. A forest was planted in his honor in Israel. He received the Torch of Liberty Award by the ADL, the Humanitarian Award by the AJC, and the Brotherhood Award by the National Conference of Christians and Jews. He was appointed to the Vatican II Committee on Guidelines for Catholic-Jewish Relations in the Houston-Galveston Diocese. Greatly loved by the many people whose lives he touched, Rabbi Kahn lived to 92 years old, and passed peacefully surrounded by loved ones.
The Rice University Visual and Dramatic Arts Department traces its beginning to 1965 when the administration, as part of the effort to strengthen offerings in the humanities, recruited Professor John O'Neill of the School of Art at the University of Oklahoma at Norman. His charge was to establish a Fine Arts Department at Rice. He began with three faculty who had been offering instruction in art and art history in the Department of Architecture. They were joined by individuals hired to teach, in one case, specifically beginning drawing and sculpture, and in another, art history. 
The inclusion of dramatic arts in the department came about when Neil Havens, the Director of the Rice Players, moved from the English Department to join the Fine Arts faculty. An expansion of the theater program came about with the hiring of Christina Keefe as Program Advisor and Professor in the Practice of Theatre. Two other faculty positions in theater arts have been added. 
A major expansion of the visual arts took place in 1967-68 when Rice accepted the offer of John and Dominique de Menil to bring to Rice the entire art program they had developed and supported at the university of St. Thomas. Included were four art historians, an art library, the slide collection and curator, the exhibition program with its technical staff, the photography and film programs, each with an instructor, and generous funds to support activities. Dominique de Menil, who had been department chair at the University of St. Thomas, at Rice took a position created especially for her, Director of the Institute for the Arts. 
The arrival at Rice of the entire de Menil program necessitated construction of new space. Although a permanent building was envisioned, the immediate solution was a pair of temporary structures. The larger of these has been demolished, but the other, known as the media Center, became the headquarters of the Visual and Dramatic Arts Department. 
In the early years, the Media Center was the location of notable activity in observational cinema, or cinema vérité, the Direct Cinema movement. Nationlly and internationally known filmmkers and directorsvisited the Media Center, conducting meetings and workshopsto introduce students faculty, and the community to this new wave of filmmaking. In 1970-71 the de Menils brought David MacDougall, an ethnographic filmmaker, and James Blue, a specialist in documentary, to Rice to co-direct the Media Center. Together they received a Guggenheim fellowship and a grant from the National Endowment from the Humanities to make Kenya Boran, which became one of the best-known ethnographic documentary films. When MacDougal left in 1975 to become Director of the Film Unit at the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies, James Blue recruited Brian Huberman from the U.K. National Film and Television School. Blue and Huberman taught courses in production, and collaboratively and independently they produced several documentaries until Blue's departure in the early 1970s. Huberman's teaching and filmmaking continues in the department to the present time. 
In 1969 Geoff Winningham was recruited from the University of St. Thomas to teach photography. While teaching in the department through the subsequent fifty years, he has produced several films and published numerous well-received volumes of photographs. 
The film program continues with a schedule of screenings at the Media Center of films from diverse sources. In addition, students now have state-of-the-art screening facilities to examine and study films from around the world in 16, 35, or 70 millimeter format with Dolby Digital Sound. They can also showcase their own film production efforts. 
John W. Clark, Jr. was born December 24, 1936, in Rochester, New York. Before embarking on his bachelor of science degree in electrical engineering at Christian Brothers College in Memphis, Tennessee, he served for three years in the U.S Marine Corps. He began his graduate work at Case Institute of Technology, earning an M.S. in electrical engineering in 1965, followed by a Ph.D. in engineering at Case Western Reserve University in 1967.
He served as a Research Associate at Case Western Reserve in 1967-68 and then in 1968 was appointed an Assistant Professor at Rice University in the Department of Electrical Engineering. He advanced through the ranks at Rice, becoming a full professor in 1979. While teaching and supervising graduate theses, he conducted research in neural and cardiac electrophysiology, mathematical modeling of biological systems, applying signal processing methods to biological systems, nonlinear system dynamics, and electromagnetic field theory.
In 1989 Dr. Clark initiated discussion with five Rice colleagues, in chemical engineering, mechanical engineering and materials sciences, biology, physics, and biochemistry, and a representative of Baylor College of Medicine, on the formation of an interdepartmental program, which became the Department of Bioengineering. In 1992 he received the Distinguished Service Award of the Houston Society for Engineering in Medicine and Biology, and in 1993 he became a Founding Fellow of the American Institute of Engineering in Medicine and Biology at the National Academy of Sciences. In 2005 he was elected a Fellow by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
At the time of his death at 80 in August 2017, Dr. Clark held professorships in both the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department and the Bioengineering Department in his forty-ninth year of teaching at Rice.
Born August 11, 1938 to Gujarati Parsi Zoroastrian parents Peshotan and Tehmina Bhandara, Bapsi Sidhwa is an American–Pakistani novelist whose books, including "The Crow Eaters," "The Pakistani Bride," "Cracking India," and "An American Brat," have gained international acclaim for their exploration of the identity issues of Pakistani Parsi immigrants to the US, their life-styles and their culture. 
After she was born, Bapsi's parents moved from Karachi to the city of Lahore, a large influence on Bapsi's later writing. Bapsi contracted polio at the age of two, and was nine at the time of the Partition--both events shaped her later writing, especially through the character of Lenny in "Ice Candy Man." In 1957, Bapsi received her BA from Kinnaird College for Women in Lahore. She married at the age of 19 and moved to Bombay for five years before she divorced and remarried in Lahore with her second husband Noshir Sidhwa. She had three children in Pakistan before beginning her career as an author. 
Bapsi is perhaps best known for her collaborative work with Indo-Canadian filmmaker Deepa Mehta; Her novels "Ice Candy Man (1991)" and "Water: A Novel" formed the basis for the latter two films in Mehta's "Elements" Trilogy, "Earth," and "Water." In addition to her novels, Bapsi has written essays and reviews for publications, and travelled for speaking engagements, spending a great deal of time abroad before settling in Houston. Bapsi has also taught at Columbia University, University of Houston, Mount Holyoke College, Southampton University, and Brandeis. 
Bapsi's work focuses especially on improving the struggles of women in the Indian subcontinent, and she served on the advisory committee to Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto on Women's Development in pursuit of that goal. Among her many honors, Bapsi received the Bunting Fellowship at Radcliffe/Harvard, the Lila Wallace-Reader's Digest Writer's Award, the Sitara-i-Imtiaz (Pakistan's highest national honor in the arts), the LiBeraturepreis in Germany, and the 2007 Primo Mondello Award in Italy. 
Mary Ann Barnes Pickens (1926-03-16 - 2013-08-11) was born in Jackson, TN. While it is unclear when she moved to Houston, TX, she did work for the Texas Business School in the 1980s. She also served as Treasurer for Pickens Medical Dist. Inc from 1980-1995. Because of her love of gardening, she was a member of various garden clubs, and was the Treasurer of the Greenwood Forest Garden Club. In 1999, she wrote the article, "Lynn R. Lowery, Plantsman." The majority of this archival collection focuses on her research regarding Lowery, which she used for her article. She also had a hand in creating the Lynn R. Lowery Arboretum at Rice University.
Lynn R. Lowery - Born in Mansfield, Louisiana, in 1917, Lynn R. Lowrey was a graduate of Louisiana State University in 1940 with a degree in horticulture. After serving four years in the US Army during World War II, he came to Houston in the 1950s to work with an established Houston firm, Teas Nursery. He soon opened his own nursery on Westheimer and was known for his unusual native plants. He landscaped many Houston homes and businesses and made many trips to identify and collect plants from Mexico. He received a grant to study certain plant species in China and was instrumental in providing funding for cancer research on Camptotheca trees. Lowrey was the recipient of many awards: the American Association of Nurserymen National Landscape Award, the Houston Botanical Society Environmental Achievement Award, the Houston Chapter of the American Institute of Architects Award, the Municipal Art Commission Award, and several plant conservation awards. He died in 1997.
Richard Huffington Sr. was born in England, in 1656 and supposed to have immigrated to the United States at the age of sixteen imported by Richard Bayley in 1672. A record from the Upper Northampton Court of Accomack, Virginia attests to this importation. He was a long time resident of the area as many depositions and tax lists indicate his inhabitation. He married Mary Windham (believed to be born between 1654 and 1656) in the year of 1679. Together they parented John Huffington Sr. (1680-1749), Richard Huffington Jr. (1693-1756), Susanna Huffington Brown (1694-date of death unknown) and Thomas Huffington (1697-1762). Though his burial place is unknown, it is believed that he died in the year of 1720 in Nanticoke One Hundred, Somerset County, Maryland.
James Brown was born in Virginia, his exact date of birth is unknown, but it is supposed that he was born in the year of 1760. He served as a private in the American Revolutionary War at the age of sixteen. He enlisted on October 2, 1776 while living in Charlotte County, Virginia and served for a total of three years. During his lifetime he was married twice, first to Frances Warren Brown, with whom he had two children Russell Brown (1782-1843), and Frances W. Brown Hancock. Later he would marry Martha (Pattie) Venable Brown on December 13, 1787 in Prince Edward County, Virginia. She would later receive a widow pension from the Bureau of Pensions in 1838 and lived to collect it for a decade. James Brown had passed away on December 16, 1829 in Charlotte County, Virginia.
Henry W. Gough was born in Blaina, Aberystruth Parish, Monmouthshire County, England on December 7, 1861. Biographical sketches indicate that Gough immigrated to the United States in 1863. However, a 1910 Census indicates that Gough immigrated to the States in 1864. For the rest of his life, he was a citizen of Dauphin County, Pennsylvania. On August 25, 1885 he wed Sarah Jane (Jennie) Cope (1860-1925) in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. For nearly a quarter century, Gough served as the County Controller for Dauphin County and had a notable career. He was also a prominent member of the Oddfellow, Masonic, and Elk lodges of Harrisburg. He died on August 27, 1937 and buried three days later in the Harrisburg Cemetery.
Phyllis Gough Huffington was the daughter of Celeste Brown Gough and Captain John Edwin Gough. She was born on January 4, 1923 in the Schofield Barracks on the island of Oahu. She attended Southern Methodist University and earned a Bachelors of Business Administration in 1941. In 1945 she married Roy M. Huffington in Dallas, Texas. Later when the family relocated to Houston Mrs. Huffington was a socially active member of the area's society, in clubs such as the Doctor's Club of Houston and the Petroleum Club of Houston. Other areas that held her interest included genealogy and civic activities, which is apparent by her membership in groups such as the Society of Genealogists (United Kingdom) and the Campfire Girls. Mrs. Huffington passed away on November 9, 2003.
L. Ruth Cahill moved from Chicago to Houston by train in 1911.
Manet Davis Schepps was born in Houston, Texas, on February 22, 1917, to Bertha and Abe Davis. She grew up in Houston and attended San Jacinto High School, where she wrote for the newspaper, served as President of the Chi Comrades, which was a forerunner of B'nai B'rith Girls.
Alvin Schepps was born March 3, 1910 in Poland. He immigrated to the United State in 1913 through "The Galveston Plan." Schepps settled in Dallas with his parents, eight brothers, and two sisters. After graduating from Forest Avenue High in 1928, Schepps spent the next 4 years at Texas A&M where he earned a degree in chemical engineering and was commissioned into the army reserves. After graduation, he moved to Houston and formed Schepps Grocery Co.
Manet and Alvin met in 1935 and married the following year at Adath Yeshurun in Houston on June 14, 1936.
Still in the Army Reserves, Schepps was called to active duty in 1942 and spent the next 4 years in the Army. His duties in the army involved concerns with chemical warfare services. He landed in France on June 6, 1944, as part of Operation Overlord on D-Day, and during the Battle of the Bulge he was promoted to Lieutenant Colonel and was awarded the Silver Star.
While Alvin was away, Manet ran the business, and took care of the first two of the couple's children, Sonnie and Dennis. After the war ended, Alvin returned home where they welcomed two more children, Gilda and Nancy.
The Schepps were well known for their community service and many charitable donations which included Texas A&M, and Texas A&M Hillel Foundation. The couple was very involved with their synagogue, Congregation Beth Yeshurun. Mr. Schepps served at President of Congregation Beth Yeshurun in the 1950s and was Chairman of the Building Committee for the congregation's building on Beechnut. Manet served as President of Beth Yeshurun Sisterhood and received the Martha Lea Stein award for service from the congregation in 1999.
Manet died on March 29, 2008 and Alvin died September 10, 2009. Both are interred at Beth Yeshurun Cemetery in Houston.
Excerpted from https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/25635708/manet-evelyn-schepps And https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/45004895/alvin-issie-schepps
Delphine Regensberger was born 19 October 1846, in New Orleans, Louisiana, to Lasen and Pauline (Frank) Regensberger.
Moise (Michel) Hirsh was born in France in 1843. Hirsch and Regensberger met and married in New Orleans. The couple had three children, Louis, Julia, and Mildred before Michel Hirsh died in 1868.
Morris (Moses) Loeb was born in Germany in 1870. He married Delphine Regensberger Hirsch in 1870. The two settled in Beaumont, Texas, and had two children, Martha and Joseph.
Delphine Loeb died 17 October 1912 and Morris Loeb died in 1908.
Stella Sullivan was a Houston based artist and teacher, of the Midcentury Modernist genre. She worked with formats such as silkscreen prints, fabric art, watercolors, and more. She died in 2018 at the age of 93.
Abe Daily was born January 17, 1927, in Simonton, Texas, to Lizzie and Abe Daily, Sr. Abe grew up in Simonton and graduated from San Jacinto High School. He went on to attend summer classes at Texas A&M where he learned to classify, buy, and sell cotton to work in the family business in Simonton. Abe was stationed at Fort Ord and Fort Lawton while he was serving in the U.S. Army from 1945 to 1947. Able later graduated from the University of Houston College of Optometry in 1961.
Cacilie Daily was born October 31, 1931, in Houston to Elsie and Hyman Hart. She grew up in the Southampton neighborhood of Houston and graduated from Lamar High School. She started a small business in 1980, called Miscellany.
After meeting on a blind date in 1948, and the two married in December 1950, and settled in Simonton. The couple had four children, traveled extensively after retiring, and were married for 68 years. Cacilie died in April 9, 2019, and Abe followed on July 24, 2019. They were interred at Emanu El Memorial Park in Houston.
Congregation Beth Israel was founded in 1854 as an Orthodox Jewish kehilla and is the oldest Jewish congregation in Texas. In 1874 the congregation voted to change their affiliation to Reform Judaism, sparking the foundation of Congregation Adath Yeshurun, now known as Congregation Beth Yeshurun.
In 1943 Temple Beth Israel announced that people who espoused Zionist ideals were not allowed to be members, so Congregation Emanu-El was formed by people who disagreed with that decision. As of 1967 Beth Israel accepts people with Zionist beliefs.
Excerpted from: https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/198258553/cacilie-emma-daily https://www.dignitymemorial.com/obituaries/houston-tx/abe-daily-8789203 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Congregation_Beth_Israel_(Houston)
Jacques Vallée is a computer scientist, author, ufologist and astronomer conducting research in UFO topics.
Rebecca Kaminsky (1864-1940) married Benje Zion Yalchuk and had one child, Hessie. After Benje died, Rebecca married Samuel Chaskin and had three children: Ida, Izzy, and Abe. Hessie was adopted by Samuel and took the name Hessie Yalchuk-Chaskin.
Abe Chaskin (1997-1968) was born in Ukraine and immigrated to the United States in 1919. Abe married Mollie Shainock (1899-2002) in Houston in 1931. The couple had three children: Meyer, Sam, and Celine (1938- ). Abe and Mollie are interred at Beth Yeshurun Cemetery in Houston.
David Hecht was born in Romania in 1930, and immigrated to New York with his family at the age of 6. David served in the U.S. Marines and Air Force before settling in Houston in 1952. David met Celine Chaskin at Beldon's grocery store after being set up by a member of Celine's family. The two married in Houston in 1959. The couple have three children: Janet, Ronnie, and Jerry.
The family is very active with Congregation Beth Yeshurun.
Harry Allen Croft was born July 2, 1943 in Houston, Texas, to Louis and Ida Croft. He grew up in Houston and graduated from San Jacinto High School. Harry went on to attend the University of Texas Medical Branch - School of Medicine, graduating in 1968.
Harry married Benay Bleacher in Houston in 1964 and the couple have three grown children. He served in the U.S. Army Medical Corps as a psychiatrist from 1973 to 1976. He currently lives in San Antonio where he began his private practice in 1976.
Through a federal grant and the donations of more than 900 people, the Jewish Institute for Medical Research was established in coordination with the Baylor College of Medicine in 1959. The Institute has conducted research on and gathered support and awareness on a number of medical conditions, notably organizing city-wide screening for Tay-Sachs Disease.
Excerpted from https://blogs.bcm.edu/2013/11/08/commemorating-50th-anniversary-of-jewish-institute-for-medical-research-at-baylor/.
Lorraine Isaacs was born February 24, 1896 in Galveston, Texas. She was elected president of her graduating class (1913) at Galveston's Ball High School – the first girl to hold the office, defeating four male opponents. Lorraine was four years old when the Galveston storm devastated the island on September 8, 1900. Lorraine's parents and brother survived the storm, as did their house, although it sustained moderate damage.
Sigmar K. Hofeller was born in New York, November 12, 1895. He moved to Texas from Buffalo, New York, during World War I as a member of the U.S. Army Signal Corps. Lorraine and Sigmar met in Fort Worth while he was station there. The couple married in Galveston in 1919. They moved to Houston in 1934, where Lorraine sold insurance. The couple had two children: Elaine and Marion. The family were members of Congregation Beth Israel in Houston.
Sigmar Hofeller died on May 3, 1964. Lorraine died July 17, 2002 at the age of 106 and was the last survivor of the 1900 storm. The two are interred at the Hebrew Benevolent Society Cemetery in Galveston.
John Bryant is a Professor Emeritus at Rice University. Before joining the Rice economics faculty, Professor Bryant earned a PhD from Carnegie Mellon, and worked for several branches in the Federal Reserve system. His areas of expertise include banking, and monetary theory and coordination, and his research interests include economics, epistemological and ontological foundations, coordination, asymmetric information, and strategic uncertainty.
Jerard "Jerry" Yale Cohen was born December 4, 1941, in Yonkers, New York, to Hilda (Green) and Edward Cohen. Jerry grew up in New York and married Adele Schwartzenfeld in New York City in 1966. The couple moved to Houston around 1972 where Jerry worked in marketing for Shell Oil Company.
Jerry was one of the organizers in creating the first synagogue on the western edge of Houston called Congregation Beth Am. He was the first president of Congregation Beth Am from 1974 to 1975. Jerry died unexpectedly on May 16, 1977, and is buried at Beth Yeshurun Cemetery. Congregation Beth Am dedicated the Jerald Y. Cohen sanctuary in 1987.
The history of Beth Am: On October 12, 1972, a group of young Jewish people met for the first time in the Kendall Branch Public Library on Memorial Drive to discuss the possibility of starting a Congregation to serve the needs of the increasing number of Jewish families settling in the Memorial-Northwest area of Houston. The need for a West Houston synagogue was recognized at that first meeting. Interest in forming a synagogue spread quickly and by January 1973, seventy people had already formed committees, held a Hanukkah service, and agreed that a religious school was a necessity. The first Board election was held in April 1973, and that month the members voted to become a conservative congregation. Within a six-month period both a Sisterhood and a Men's Club were formed, an ark was built to house the newly acquired Torah, and Rabbi Irwin Halpern became the congregation's first spiritual leader and school administrator. In 1975 Beth Am purchased a facility on Brittmoore Road. As the membership continued to grow a new sanctuary, kitchen, and offices were added. The youth group, Beth Am Synagogue Youth, was also created around this time. As the years passed the members decided that further growth was hampered by the somewhat industrial location of the synagogue. As a part of that decision, Congregation Beth Am merged with Congregation Or Hadash in 2001 and became Congregation Or Ami.
Cal Dean Hill, Jr. (1930-2017) and Virginia Lee Smith attended Rice Institute from the late 1940s to the early 1950s. Their son Howard attended in the 1970s.
After graduation and a two year stint in the Navy, Cal Dean Hill, Jr. became an architect. His son, Howard, also went on to become an architect after earning his degree from Rice.
Like many major cities across the United States, Houston's LGBTQ community suffered during the height of the HIV/AIDS crisis of the 1980s and 1990s.
Some of the materials in this collection includes those from the KS/AIDS Foundation Houston, which later changed its name to AIDS Foundation Houston. Their work worked to help those living with the disease, as well as reduce the stigma around it.
The Kinder Institute for Urban Resarch was created in 2010 with a $15 million gift from Houston philanthropists Richard and Nancy Kinder. It is a multidiscplinary think-and-do tank at Rice University that focuses on"urban issues in Houston, the American Sun Belt and around the world."
Dr. Stephen Klineberg is Founding Director of the Kinder Institution from 2010 to present. William Fulton has been the directory since fall 2014.
Taken from https://kinder.rice.edu/about on 2020-01-29.
Hailing from New York, Sharon Slane moved to Houston in the mid-1970s. She worked at a variety of music venues, including Anderson Fair Retail Restaurant, Houlihan's No. 2, Rockefeller's, among others.
After growing up in a military household, Lew Andre Mathews moved to Houston in 1972. He played at Anderson Fair Retail Restaurant, but then traveled throughout Texas with a variety of bands. He played lead guitar with Danny Epps band, as well as joined the Hemmer Ridge Mountain Boys.
Sharon Slane and Lew Andre Mathews married in the mid-1980s. Soon after, they relocated to Austin. In 1989, Lew Andre Mathews took a job at UCLA. They began performing in and around California until they moved back to Texas. Lew Andre Mathews continues to perform and is in the band The Patrons.
W. Leland Anderson served as one of the first Directors of the Texas Medical Center and as vice-president of Anderson, Clayton and Company. The collection includes family portraits, photographs, news article clippings, and family letters. The collection includes a number of Julia Anderson Frankel's photo albums and scrapbooks. Julia Anderson Frankel is considered a Houston community leader in which she has served as board member and trustee.
Although the Jewish population numbered around 100 individuals, Victoria lacked a formal congregation until the end of the 19th century. While they had met together informally as early as the 1850s, they did not organize until 1867, when Victoria Jews established a Hebrew Benevolent Society. The society held services and even joined the Union of American Hebrew Congregations for several years in the 1880s. In 1876, Jewish women had founded the Hebrew Ladies' Benevolent Society, which had 17 members in 1900. They also founded a Jewish Children's Aid Society in 1889. A chapter of B'nai B'rith, later named in honor of prominent Jewish grocer Max Bettin, was organized in 1875. Finally, in 1894, Jews in Victoria established an official congregation, which they named B'nai Israel. Abraham Levi became its first President during these founding years and the first permanent Rabbi, George Solomon, arrived in Victoria in 1905. The synagogue that stands today was built in 1923 when the Jewish population in the city peaked at around 120 people. Today, there are about 20 Jewish families in Victoria. Dr. Shira Lander, a Southern Methodist University religion professor, has lead High Holiday services as well as periodic Shabbat and education services. Despite a 2007 incident in which the Temple's front was desecrated with anti-Semitic slurs, Victorian Jews remain welcome participants in the life of the city, and look to maintain their involvement and tradition in the coming years. Excerpt from: https://www.isjl.org/texas-victoria-encyclopedia.html
Born in 1942, Melvin Lack grew up in Victoria, Texas. His father was from Tulsa, Oklahoma, while his mother grew up in Houston, Texas. In 1938, Melvin's father decided to open a family business selling many goods such as toys, guns, and furniture. Growing up in Victoria, Melvin was one of only 30 Jewish kids in the community attending Sunday school at Temple B'nai Israel. As an undergraduate student, Melvin attended Rice University. While there, Melvin was heavily invested in extracurricular activities, joining the Student Council and Hillel, writing articles for The Rice Thresher, and serving as president of Weiss College. Once he received his Bachelor's degree in Economics, Melvin attended Harvard University Business School where he met his wife Janey, one of the first women to be admitted into the Business School in 1963. After convincing from his uncle, Melvin and his wife moved back to his hometown in 1969 to work for the family business. From there, the couple settled down and had three children - David, Jeffrey and Julie. For the next 40 years, the Lack Company thrived, opening 39 stores at its height. Meanwhile, Melvin became involved in the local Jewish community, serving on the Board of Directors for Congregation B'nai Israel for 35 years as well as serving several terms as president. In addition, Melvin helped raise money for the synagogue through Bingo fundraisers. This allowed for the synagogue to go through several renovations in the 1990s and establish its Endowment Fund. Today, Melvin remains in Victoria, TX, managing the real estate of the family while staying active on the stock market.
Isabella Gonzalez, a native Texan, graduated from Rice University May 2013 with an Electrical and Computer Engineering degree. She obtained a master's degree in the same field from the University of California, Santa Barbara.
After graduation, she founded Zither AI, a software platform that analyzes television and film scripts.
The United Orthodox Synagogues of Houston was formed in 1965 when two separate synagogues, Adath Emeth and Beth Jacob, joined together. Congregation Adath Israel joined the United Orthodox Synagogues a year later.
The oldest of the founding congregations, Adath Israel, was formed in 1905 because observant Jews living in Houston's Fifth Ward lived too far away to walk to Adath Yeshurun. Members first met in the Wertheimer home until they dedicated their first synagogue building in 1910. From 1910 to 1930 Adath Israel was led by Rabbi Jacob Geller. In 1939 the congregation moved to a new building in Washington Terrace.
Adath Emeth was formed in 1908 and officially chartered in 1910. Like many synagogues in South Texas, Adath Emeth had its first services in the homes of members, rather than in a synagogue building. In its early years the congregation was led by shochet and cantor Meyer Epstein. Services moved to a house on Artesian Place near Preston Avenue, then to "the upstairs of a feed store" on Preston Avenue near the current downtown area, just North of Buffalo Bayou. After World War I the congregation built a wooden synagogue at Houston and Washington Avenue, but it burned down after only two years. That same year, 1923, the congregation built a more permanent structure in the same place, which would remain their synagogue building until 1948, when they erected a new building at Cleburne and Ennis in the Third Ward. In 1959 they sold their building to Texas Southern University, and moved to their present location on Greenwillow Drive at South Braeswood, in the Willow Meadows neighborhood in southwest Houston. The records we have between 1960 and 1965 show that Adath Emeth was an active community with a Sisterhood, N.C.S.Y, frequent parties and events, and a theatre troupe. Although the congregation officially joined with Beth Jacob and later Adath Israel in the mid-1960s, they maintained their own separate identity for years after the merger, even holding their own 50 Year Golden Jubilee Anniversary in 1968.
Beth Jacob was formed in 1937 in the home of Rabbi Max Geller to form a Modern Orthodox congregation designed "to serve the Jews residing in the South End of the city of Houston," according to the synagogue's board minutes. Twenty-three men comprised the first chartering members. That year the congregation bought land at Cleburne and Hamilton and in two years built their synagogue there. Elsewhere in the Houston Jewish History Archives is a large service flag from Beth Jacob Congregation, which includes the names of members and affiliated persons who served in the armed forces during World War II.
In 1965 because of dwindling membership and financial issues, Beth Jacob and Adath Emeth joined, followed by Adath Israel in 1966. United Orthodox Synagogues was led by Rabbi Raphael Schwartzman and Cantor Irving Dean. In the 1970s Rabbi Schwartzman left the congregation and was replaced by Rabbi Kenneth Hain, followed by Rabbi Joseph Radinsky, who served UOS from 1976 to 2003. Since 2003, Rabbi Barry Gelman has served as UOS's spiritual leader.
Established in 1979 with 37 full-time faculty, forty years later the School of Social Sciences employed 97 full-time faculty in seven departments: Anthropology, Economics, Linguistics, Political Science, Psychological Sciences, Sociology, and Sport Management, all but the last offering doctoral degrees. Professional master's degrees are offered in Energy Economics, Global Affairs, Human-Computer Interactions and Human Factors, and Social Policy Evaluation. Allied centers: Douglas S. Harlan Program in State Elections, Campaigns and Politics, Hobby Center for the Study of Texas, Houston Education Research Consortium, Kinder Institute for Urban Research, Shell Center for Sustainability, Social Sciences Research Institute, and Texas Policy Lab. Approximately one-third of Rice undergraduates have a Social Sciences major and can take advantage of the Gateway Program, providing travel grants and opportunities to network and practice with professionals in their fields. Because of the nature of the School's patterns of instruction and research, faculty and students have a particular interest in current and public events, issues, and politics, publishing and commenting widely in various media. Since 1982 the School has hosted the annual Houston Area Survey.
Carl Robert Cunningham (1931- ), a California native, holds degrees from Notre Dame and the University of Southern California. After serving in the Navy, he taught music and was a choir director in Honolulu, 1959-63. He was music critic for the San Francisco Chronicle before settling in Houston, where he was music editor of the Houston Post, 1966-1995, and was on the University of St. Thomas faculty, 1968-1986. With others, he wrote a history of Houston Grand Opera (2005) and has long composed program notes and liner notes for many classical music ensembles and dance troupes around the United States, including the Houston Symphony and Houston Grand Opera.
Robert "Little Bobby" Duncan attended Rice in the early 1970s. He was the first Homecoming King in 1970. He went on to be an artist. In the mid-1980s, he illustrated concert posters for Rockefeller's in Houston.
Growing up in Victoria, TX, Danny Everitt connected with music from an early age. Like others in his age group, he joined bands in middle and high school. Upon graduation, he attended the University of Texas and studied Radio, Television, and Film.
During his time at UT, he joined the band Dogfood. After graduation, he moved to Nashville to start his music career. While touring, he entered the Kerrville Folk Festival New Folk contest and became one of the winners of 1976.
Hearing about the music scene in Houston, Everitt eventually relocating there. He played both solo and in a variety of bands including the Danny Everitt Band and Danny Everitt and the Rhythm Tramps. Until the early 1980s he played in and around Houston and temporarily relocated to California.
Within the 1980s and 1990s, Everitt lived in Austin and the Nashville-area. He moved back to Houston in the late 1990s and has lived in or near the city fver since. Over the years, he has released a number of albums including "Fire Down Inside," "Acoustic Guitar," and "Dream Big."
In 1973, Pam Grimes was playing at Sand Mountain Coffee House. Bob Oldreive approached her about joining a nascent band with his friend Bill Bertinot. Soon after the band became larger adding Joe Lindley, Richard "RJ" Jacob, and Marty Smith. The band christened themselves Dogtooth Violet and made a name for themselves playing a version of "country-rock" that was popular in the mid-1970s.
The band's lineup played a variety of instruments: Joe Lindley - fiddle, banjo, mandolin, guitar, vocals; Bob Oldreive - vocals, rhythm guitar; Bill Bertinot - lead guitar, steel guitar, dobro; Pam Grimes - vocals, washboard, guitar; Richard "RJ" Jacob - drums, vocals; Marty Smith - bass. Bob Oldreive, Pam Grimes, and Bill Bertinot wrote original music.
The band went their separate ways in 1976 with three of the members creating the band Paradise.
Since the 1980s, Dogtooth Violet has reunited to play shows in Houston at venues like Rockefeller's, Fitzgerald's, Anderson Fair Retail Restaurant, and most recently Warehouse Live. Marty Smith joined the band for most of the reunions, but passed in 2003.
Zevi W. Salsburg was professor of chemistry and mathematical science at Rice University from 1954 until his death in 1970. Salsburg earned his Ph.D in 1953 at Yale, where he was a member of the influential John Kirkwood group in statistical mechanics. He came to Rice in 1954 as a member of the Chemistry department, later holding an appointment in mathematical science as well. He published extensively in chemical physics, held fellowships from NSF, the National Research Council, and the Guggenheim Foundation, and consulted for both Los Alamos and the Lawrence Radiation Lab at Livermore. Salsburg was also a key contributor, as a fund-raiser and designer, of the R1 computer that was built by Rice faculty in Abercrombie Lab.
In 1956, three Rice University faculty members, Zevi Salsburg, John Kilpatrick, and Larry Biedenharn, brought supercomputing to the school for the first time in the form of the R1 computer. While it wasn't the first computer at Rice, it was the university's first large computational research computer.
Jefferson Davis Hong, also known as J. D. Hong, was born in Greenville, Mississippi on June 3, 1939, to parents Kun and Mamie Hong. Hong has 2 older sisters and 3 younger brothers. He attended Chinese School for 3 years until his school was integrated with white students, due to the segregation between colored and white students. Hong attended Susie P. Trigg Elementary, Bass Junior High, and graduated from Greenville High School on June 01, 1957. As a youth, Hong loved fishing, woodworking and being in the Boy Scouts, and only lacked the swimming and life saving merit badges for getting the Eagle Scout Medal. Hong went on to be the first to earn the Silver Award in the Air Explorer Scouts, which is equivalent to the Eagle Scout. He earned 9 out of 10 ratings in the Air Explorer Manual and received recognition as Outstanding Scout 2 years in a row at the Summer encampments at Greenville AFB, MS. Being an Instructor for the Ground Observer Corps and Senior Patrol Leader for Squadron 1, Hong taught first aid classes for the Emergency Service Group.
On 20 Aug 1957, Hong enlisted in the United States Air Force and was honorably discharged on 18 Aug 1961 at the rank of Senior Airman. During his time in the Air Force, he qualified for air freight specialist and loadmaster. Duty stations included McChord AFB, WA; Travis AFB, CA; Clark Field, Philippines, and missions to Saigon in 1959. While at Clark Field, Hong earned 15 hours of college credits at the University of Philippines. His education experiences included Advanced Air Transportation School Tinker AFB, OK, then to Sheppard AFB, TX, to set up complete air freight operations. After Hong's time in the Air Force, he attended Mississippi State University, earning a degree in Transportation and Business. In June of 1965, he moved to Houston and started working in reservations sales for Delta Air Lines. He Worked for Delta from July, 1965 until January 1992 as Reservations Sales Supervisor. He then worked for Costco for 10 years. From 1997-98, Hong served as President of the Chinese American Citizens Alliance, Houston Chapter, and American Legion Commander of Post 596 from June 2005 to June 2009. During my time as Post 596 Commander, the group attended the WWII monument opening ceremony with a group of American Legion members and their families. Hong is also a life member of VFW Post 8790 and on the Veterans Cemetery Council of Greater Houston taking care of the Gold and Blue Star mothers. Hong created a veterans' seminar to educate veterans about benefits they can receive from the VA hospital and burial arrangements in the VA cemetery. Hong is married and has 2 sons and one daughter-law. Their family attends the Chinese Baptist Church.
Mark Kulstad is a well rounded scholar of Philosophy born on January 8, 1947. His undergraduate degree spanned the years 1965 to 1969. He was awarded cum laude with the highest distinction at the conclusion of his undergraduate studies. His graduate studies were completed in 1975 at The University of Michigan. His thesis topic was Leibniz's Doctrine of Pre-established Harmony.
After his studies and the job hunting process he came to Rice. During the job hunting process he applied to many places including Duke and The University of Notre Dame. He was first admitted as an assistant professor at Rice on July 1, 1975 with a 3-year extension in 1978. He was reappointed this status again in 1981 for a year. He was then appointed associate professor in 1981. He became an full professor in 1986. He was the chair of the philosophy department from 1988 to 1992. His research interests center around Leibniz. He was given the recognition of the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation research fellow in Hanover, West Germany in 1979 to 1980 working in the Leibniz archive. His interest in Leibniz extended to his presidency in the Leibniz Society of North America from 1981- 1983. He took up this role again in the years 2002- 2006. He also took his interest in Leibniz to conferences and he arranged a conference about Leibniz, "The International Young Leibniz Conference" at Rice. He also organized the First Annual North American Leibniz Society for the year 2008 at Rice. During his time at Rice he was heavily involved with Graduate Admissions, Graduate Seminars, and Hanszen College as a faculty associate for the years 1978-1979,1982-1983,and 1983-1984. 
This collection documents not only the early years of the Rice Institute, but also the years the institute was in the planning stages and William Marsh Rice's involvement. The assets of the institute are also detailed.
Alan Grob was born on March 12, 1932 in New York City and died on September 21, 2007 in Houston, Texas. He was the much-loved son of Jack and Ida Grob. He received his B.A. from Utica College and his M.A. and PhD in English from the University of Wisconsin. He served as an officer in the U.S. Navy aboard the U.S.S. General W.A. Mann from 1953 to 1956. In 1961 he joined the Rice University English department, serving as chairman from 1981 to 1987. He received the George R. Brown Award for Superior Teaching five times and in 1973 he received Rice's highest teaching award, the George R. Brown Award for Excellence in Teaching. He was a visiting professor at Texas Southern University, the University of Indiana, and the University of the Saarland in West Germany, where he held both a Rotary and a Fulbright Fellowship.
As a specialist in 19th-century literature, Dr. Grob was the author of the books The Philosophic Mind: A Study of Wordsworth's Poetry and Thought, 1797-1805 and A Longing Like Despair: Arnold's Poetry of Pessimism, as well as many scholarly articles. Dr. Grob served as the president of the Wordsworth-Coleridge Association of America, as a member of the executive committee for the English Romantic Period section of the Modern Language Association from 1973 to 1977, and as chairman of that committee in 1976. He was a faculty associate at Hanszen College of Rice University from 1962 until his retirement in 2002.
A leading voice at Rice for social justice and for racial integration, Dr. Grob organized and chaired a faculty committee for minority recruitment in the early years of desegregation at Rice. Upon his retirement, former students and colleagues honored him by establishing the Alan Grob Prize to be awarded annually to the Rice undergraduate who, in the words of the donors, "has demonstrated the most devotion to the needs of the economically and culturally disadvantaged. The recipient's activities shall exemplify the values of community and service that Professor Grob lived and so eloquently sought to teach." In addition, in 2003 the Rice-TMS board established a scholarship for an incoming undergraduate minority student in Alan Grob's name.
Dr. Grob taught a highly popular course in Shakespeare for almost thirty years and in recognition of that very pleasurable association with the plays of Shakespeare he and his wife Shirley established the Alan and Shirley Grob Endowment for Shakespeare in Performance, a fund created to assist in bringing performances of the plays of Shakespeare to the Rice campus.
Dr. Grob loved being a teacher. He was deeply committed to sharing his enthusiasm for literature with the students he loved, and he prized his long friendships with many colleagues that he admired. He loved travel, particularly to the Lake District of England, politics, reading, following sports, and going out to dinner. Perhaps his favorite hobby was to participate in lively debates on subjects that stirred his interest. He took a keen interest in the lives of his children and their families and cherished the time he spent with them.
--Taken from Alan Grob's obituary in the Houston Chronicle
David Davidson attended the Rice Institute in the 1950s graduating in 1957 and 1958 with a degree in Mechanial Engineering. He also received an MS/PhD in 1968. While an undergrad, he participated in The Engineering Society, American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Rally Club, Alpha Phi Omega, and ROTC.
He went on to work at Southwest Research Institute in San Antonio, TX.
Born in McAllen, Texas, Kathy Rote and her family moved to Houston soon after she was diagnosed with polio. Her family wanted to live near Texas Children's Hospital. At the age of 12, she became entranced with folk music as many of her generation did. Her Dad began taking her to folk music events at the University of Houston, the Jewish Community Center, John A. Lomax, Jr.'s house, and other folk venues around town.
Not long after, Rote began taking guitar lessons from Ed Badeaux. In 1965, she would occasionally perform at the Jewish Community Center, but spent most of her time performing at Sand Mountain Coffee House and at hospitals and nursing homes. She worked a circuit of music venues just outside of Houston with Townes Van Zandt, Guy Clark, and others. She also attended gatherings at Peter Gardner's home and played on episodes of his KRBE show "The Sampler."
During her senior year of high school, Kathy Rote moved to Tucson, Arizona. After returning briefly to Houston, she went back to attend the University of Arizona. Growing up in the 50's and 60's, she experienced firsthand, the social and physical discrimination that prevented those with disabilities from being equal members of society. In 1979 she joined the Disabilities Rights movement in Berkeley, California. With others, she worked to craft legislation and create social services that supported disabled Americans efforts to live independently and culminated in the Americans w/ Disability Act. All during this time, she continued to play music and wrote her own songs.
Congregation Beth Jacob is a Conservative Jewish synagogue located in Galveston, Texas. Founded in 1931, the congregation was made up of two groups of Orthodox Jews (one from the Russian tradition, the other from an Austro-Hungarian background) which came together in an effort to unite the community. Led by the Rabbi Louis Feigon, the members raised funds to build a new synagogue on the site of the old Hebrew Orthodox Benevolent Association. In the 1960s, the congregation expanded, building a new wing that included a 242-seat sanctuary, a large social hall, a library and more school rooms for the expanded Sunday, Hebrew and Hebrew high schools. In the 1970s the congregation joined the United Synagogue of Conservative Judaism.
A livre d'artiste is a limited edition, handmade book combining original prints with the artist often supervising the production of the book and collaborating with the author of the text. Because many of these books are not constrained by the normal limits of a bound book, often assuming sculptural qualities, book art is perhaps a more appropriate term to use in describing these artists' books.
The original criteria for the collection was that the works were created by prominent artists and significant literary authors.
Born in Alabama in 1944 to a middle class family, Davis was the oldest of three children. She attended the segregated schools of Alabama until the age of 15, when she received a scholarship from the American Friends Service Committee to attend Elizabeth Irwin High School, a progressive private school in New York City.
After graduating from high school Davis won a scholarship to Brandeis University, where she majored in French literature. She spent her junior year (1962) at the Sorbonne in Paris, witnessed firsthand the Algerian conflict being waged in the streets there, and attended the Communist Youth Festival in Helsinki which had a significant impact on her political development. In 1965 she graduated from Brandeis with honors and went to Frankfurt, Germany to study philosophy at Goethe University. At the University she continued her activism and joined a socialist student group opposed to the war in Vietnam. In her autobiography, Davis notes that she spent time in East Germany, which served to deepen her commitment to socialism.
Upon her return to the U.S. Davis joined the Black liberation movement and the struggle against the Vietnam War in San Diego and Los Angeles. According to her autobiography, Davis first became aware of the Soledad Brothers after reading a February 1970 article in the Los Angeles Times. She accepted the co-chair of the Soledad Brothers Defense Committee and as a result of her activities and subsequent visits to Soledad Prison, Davis befriended the families of the Soledad Brothers and corresponded with the three men.
On August 3, 1970, Jonathan Jackson, George Jackson's seventeen year old brother, tried to assist James McClain, on trial for an alleged attempt to stab an officer, escape from the courthouse. During the escape attempt the judge and Jackson were killed in a shootout with the police; one juror and the district attorney were wounded. The guns used in the kidnapping were allegedly traced to Davis, implicating her in the escape attempt. A California warrant was issued for Davis' arrest in which she was charged as an accomplice to murder, kidnapping, and conspiracy. She fled Los Angeles and evaded arrest by seeking refuge in several places including New York City. A federal fugitive warrant was subsequently issued and she was placed on the Federal Bureau of Investigation's ten most wanted list.
Two months later Davis was captured in New York City. While awaiting trial, and after a few joint court appearances, Davis separated her case from Magee's and their cases were tried separately. Magee wanted his trial held in a federal court while Davis wanted her trial held in California's state court. Davis' trial was moved from Marin County, a primarily white upper middle class community to San Jose, California which was an ethnically and racially more diverse city, in an effort to secure a fair trial with a less biased jury.
Almost immediately a groundswell of support developed in favor of Davis' release. Davis in particular, received widespread national and international support from the black community, liberals and the progressive left. The Communist Party mounted a major political campaign and held rallies in the United States and abroad, published articles, pamphlets and posters, issued petitions, distributed postcards, and requested that the public mail cards and letters on Davis' behalf.
After a trial by jury, consisting of eleven whites and one Latino, Davis was acquitted of all charges. Following her acquittal Davis taught at San Francisco State University for several years. From 1973 until the early 1990s she served on the board of the National Alliance Against Racism and Political Repression, an organization she helped found with Charlene Mitchell. In the Fall of 1995, she was appointed to the University of California at Santa Cruz Presidential Chair and became a consultant to the Ph.D program at UCSC where she continues to teach. Davis has written several books on gender and class issues, the prison system and its impact on minority populations, and is a major figure in the orthodox Communist Party.
This information came from the New York Public Library's Archives and Manuscript Collection: Angela Davis Legal Defense Collection, 1970-1972 https://archives.nypl.org/scm/20821
Eugene Mack Friedl born November 21, 1920 matriculated to the Rice Institute in 1938 and graduated with a Electrical Engineering degree in 1942. He went on to obtain a Master's degree in Latin American Studies from the University of Mexico City. After graduation he went on to work for the Internatinal Division of General Electric living in various location in the U.S. and Europe. He died in Saratoga, CA on May 3, 2013.
In the spring of 1970, Student Center Board President Jerilyn Mardis invited Abbie Hoffman to speak at Rice University. Unbeknownst to her, the event became a larger fight with the administation that led to fires on campus and the occupation of Allen Center.
To learn the intracacies of this event, please see Anna Ta's online exhibit: https://digitalprojects.rice.edu/protests-at-rice/exhibits/show/abbie-hoffman
Opened in 1953, the Rice Nuclear Laboratory would later become known as the Bonner Laboratory. It was named in dedication to the late Tom W. Bonner who was a renowned nuclear physicist both in the local community and internationally. The lab was designed by Abel Pierce and George F. Pierce Jr. The Bonner Lab was originally home to one particle accelerator, a Mega Electron Volt Van de Graaff machine. A second particle accelerator was acquired in 1961. The Bonner Lab was the United States' first fully equipped nuclear laboratory based out of a university. Major discoveries and accomplishments in the field of nuclear physics were discovered in the Bonner Lab. The two particle accelerators were donated to other laboratories in 1972 and the Bonner Lab was used for music practice and performance as well as computational engineering. In 1994, the Bonner Lab building was demolished. The laboratory was located where Duncan Hall is now.
In 2019, Dr. Kathleen Matthews began compiling research materials documenting the history of Biosciences at Rice University. By 2021, she had written a finished manuscript entitled "History of Biosciences."
This collection includes 32 sleeves of 4" x 5" black and white photographic negatives of buildings and interiors of the Rice University campus taken in the 1960's. The negatives were rehoused when donated to the Woodson Research Center in 1992. Some of the work photographed was done by Linbeck Construction, and some by Tellepsen Construction.
Hannah Juanita Rembert (Fogler) was one of the first women accepted to Rice Institute and attended from 1934 to 1938. Women did not live on campus so she would ride the trolley from her home downtown, then out to, what was then, the Warwick Hotel where the trolley turned around. Rice sent a car to pick up the students. Hannah earned a double major in English and Biology.
Danny Marc Samuels, FAIA, is a Professor in Practice of Architecture and the Co-director of Construct. After apprenticing with Guillermo Jullian de la Fuente in Paris and Venice, he founded, with partners John J. Casbarian and Robert H. Timme, the design firm, Taft Architects, in 1973. The work of this Houston-based office has received over 60 major design awards, and has appeared in over 200 articles in books and journals worldwide. Samuels, with his partners, has lectured at over 100 professional and educational forums, nationally and internationally. Together they are recipients of the Houston AIA Educator Award and the Houston AIA Firm Award. Samuels is a Fellow of the American Academy in Rome, and in 1991 was elected to the College of Fellows of the American Institute of Architects.
Samuels' work through the Rice Building Workshop with Associate Director Nonya Grenader, and now through Construct with Co-director Andrew Colopy has resulted in a stream of realized projects: over the past twenty-five years, more than seven hundred students have designed and built projects at various scales in the community -- from exhibit venues in Houston museums to affordable housing at Project Row Houses in Houston's Third Ward. The Workshop received the 2004 NCARB Prize for the "Integration of Practice and Education" from the National Council of Registration Boards and the "Collaborative Practice Award" in 2005 from the Association of Collegiate Schools of Architecture. In 2015/16, the RBW collaboration with Project Row Houses was the subject of exhibitions at Harvard GSD, AIA NY, and the Cooper Hewitt Museum, as well as the book Core Houses.
Profile taken from https://arch.rice.edu/people/faculty/danny-samuels
Judge Ingversen was born in Manila, in the Philippines. Her family came to the U.S. in 1953; she grew up in Florissant, Missouri, receiving her bachelor's in political science from the University of Missouri at St. Louis in 1968 before moving to Houston, where she earned her doctor of jurisprudence from the University of Houston in 1973. That same year, she was admitted to practice law before the Supreme Court of Texas. She engaged in private practice until 1996, when she was appointed a full-time municipal court judge in Houston. In 2011, she retired from a full-time position and worked as an associate judge until 2015. Judge Ingversen has handled cases before the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas as well as the 5th and 11th Circuits of the U.S. Court of Appeals. In addition to being president of the Asian American Heritage Association from 1993 to 1994, she was president of the Asian American Bar Association from 1994 to 1995 and of the Asian American Democrats of Texas from 1995 to 1996.
Eufemia Chua served as both vice president and later president of the PNAMH in the 1980s and 1990s. While serving in leadership roles of the PNAMH, Eufemia Chua served as head nurse of the gynecology department at the MD Anderson hospital. Eufemia Chua specialized in cancer nursing.
Donald A. Bell, who goes by Don, grew up in Delaware County, Ohio where he graduated high school in 1949. He joined the United States Air Force in January 1950 where he was transferred to Ellington Air Force Base in the spring. Don received promotions up to Staff Sergeant by January 1952. After receiving an honorable discharge in January 1954, he enrolled in Otterbein College where he received his BA with teaching credentials. He later went on to earn a master's degree in Broadcast Education from The Ohio State University. After receiving his bachelor's degree, Don began teaching English at the Whitehall Yearling High School in 1958 while also taking care of the audio visual department. In 1974, he formed a TV Production Course that he taught after school for 17 years. Several of Don's students went on to prominent positions such as: chief vice president of Radio One; member of the PBS Board of Directors; and owner of an internationally known PR company. After retiring from the school system in 1991, Don became the Museum Curator for the Historical Aircraft Squadron Museum in 2000.
Star Furniture was founded in Houston, TX in 1912 by three men with "only a horse and wagon to their name." In 1924, a Russian-Jewish immigrant named Boris Wolff purchased one-quarter interest in the furniture store, gradually gained ownership and began to pilot day-to-day operations. By 1950, Star Furniture had six locations, and Boris decided to pass ownership of the company over to his children, Melvyn Wolff and Shirley Wolff Toomim. In 1997, Star Furniture was sold to the multinational conglomerate Berkshire Hathaway, owned by Warren Buffett. Today, it is the longest running furniture store in the state of Texas.
Source: starfurniture.com
Abolition of slavery was initiated in Mexico by the Spanish government, who abolished the practice throughout the empire in 1818. Like many other states which engaged in slavery, the full process of emancipation for the country took many years. The First Republic of Mexico issued a decree of abolition in 1829, but regions including Texas resisted, reclassifying enslaved people as "indentured servants for life". On April 5, 1837, the general Congress of the Mexican Republic issued a further decree, abolishing "without exception all slavery in all the Republic." The decree also provided compensation for enslavers' losses on a case-by-case basis: with the exception of settlers in Texas, who had seceded and later joined the United States as an enslaving state.
The Gee Family Association (GFA) is an organization of generations of Gees and their extended families. The GFA has chapters in several major U.S. cities. Each year, the Houston organization gathers at two major events, a Chinese New Year Banquet, a family picnic, as well as varying activities in between. The GFA hosts an annual Chinese New Year Dinner which celebrates special achievements, recognition of family member births, graduates, marriages, and elders, Gee pioneer families, and the Gee Education Fund Scholarships. Through these gatherings, genealogical information is exchanged, family news is shared, and cultural traditions are maintained. [Exceprted from GFA brochure, 2019.]
Houstonian Jack W. Rowland served as the Regional Director of the Works Project Administration from 1939-1943.
Beginning in earnest in 2018, Brian T. Atkinson conducted interviews with people associated with Houston singer-wongwriter Mickey Newbury. This book like Atkinson's others relies on the interviewees telling the story of the songwriter. "Looks Like Rain: The Songwriting Legacy of Mickey Newbury" was published in May of 2021.
Brian T. Atkinson's other works focus on Townes Van Zandt, Roky Erickson, Ray Wylie Hubbard, Billie Joe Shaver, among others. Most of his books are written as part of the John and Robin Dickson series in Texas Music, sponsored by the Center for Texas Music History, Texas State University.
William L. Wilson, known to generations of Rice University students as Dr. Bill, was professor of electrical engineering at Rice University from 1972 and Resident Associate of Wiess College from 1978 until his retirement from Rice in 2006. He also served as interim Master of Wiess in 1983 and in a myriad of formal and informal roles on the Rice campus throughout his teaching career. The keeper of many Wiess traditions, he was arguably the most influential person in the college's history.
A native of Long Island, William L. Wilson Jr. grew up in Princeton, New Jersey, and came to Rice in 1972 after earning his bachelor's, master's, and doctoral degrees in electrical engineering at Cornell University. In 1978 he became a Resident Associate at Wiess College, one of the university's residential colleges. Wiess remained his home until 2006, when Dr. Bill retired to his long-time summer home in Vermont.
Source: https://en-academic.com/dic.nsf/enwiki/3795806
Manuel Paredes was born in Arequipa, Peru on May 29, 1924. After college, he became a Petroleum Geologist, working in oil exploration in Peruvian Amazonia from the late 1940s to the early 1950s. During this time, he wrote letters to Carmen Amado Nuñez, his childhood friend in Lima. In 1952, they were married.
After doing graduate work at Stanford University, Manuel Paredes lived between Peru and the United States. The Paredes family moved to Houston in 1976. Manuel Paredes passed away on April 22, 2002. Carmen Paredes passed away on January 18, 2021.
When he lived in Houston, Craig Keyzer was a graphic artist for the alt weekly "Public News." A lover of popular music he collected Houston concert recordings ranging from Elvis and The Beatles to Townes van Zandt.
Anne Marie Smith received her BA from Rice Institute in 1938, as well as a Masters of Arts in 1940. She studied with Floyd S. Lear, with whom she maintained contact. She later married and took the name Ewing.
James DePitts graduated from Rice University in 1969. He has stayed connected to the music scene in Houston and has played in a Zydeco band named Grand Texas with Steve Bing.
The Filipino American National Historical Society - Houston Chapter was established in 2015, and represents the 32nd chapter of the national organization. The mission of FANHS-HTX is to promote understanding, education, enlightenment, appreciation, and enrichment through the identification, gathering, preservation, and dissemination of the history and culture of Filipino Americans in the United States.
The first documented presence of Filipinos in the continental United States was in October of 1587 in Morro Bay, California. The first permanent Filipino community in the US was established in 1763 in St. Malo, Louisiana. Filipino Americans have made significant contributions to the arts, business, education, science, health care, technology, government, and many other fields in the centuries that they have participated in the life of the country. The national and local chapters of the organization seek to share this history by conducting research and studies; gathering, promoting, and disseminating published works on Filipino American history; providing a repository for research and gathered materials; creating exhibits; and promoting and holding forums and public programs.
David William Barg was born December 22, 1918, in Houston, Texas, to Ike and Esther Barg. David grew up in Houston and attended Milby High School where he served in R.O.T.C. After graduating in 1937 David attended Rice University, graduating in 1940. He served in the U.S. Army during World War II.
David married Mozelle Elise Gerson in Houston in 1949.
David died November 18, 1999, in Houston and is buried in the Beth Yeshurun Cemetery.
Dr. Lawrence Chan was born in Hong Kong in 1942, a month before the Japanese occupation of Hong Kong. He studied medicine at the University of Hong Kong, graduating in 1966; he then interned at the University of Western Ontario before completing his residency in internal medicine at Washington University in St. Louis. In 1973, he came to Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, where he remained until his retirement in 2016. Due to his peculiar situation as an immigrant from Hong Kong—then a British colony—a law in the U.S. Senate had to be passed for him to acquire permanent residency in 1977; he and his family naturalized and obtained citizenship several years later. He made his career in academic medicine, researching obesity, endocrinology, and diabetes. He held a professorship at Baylor, was Director of the NIH Diabetes and Endocrinology Research Center (DERC). In 2007, he received the Edwin B. Astwood Award—one of the most prestigious in endocrinology and metabolism; he was also involved in diabetes outreach events.
The Gee family first rose to prominence with C.B. Albert Gee (b. 1920) and his success in the Houston restaurant business. He began working in the industry in 1936, first as an assistant to his uncle Harry Gee, Sr., before opening up restaurants of his own, such as Gee's Kitchen, the Frying Pan, and the Ding How—the latter of which was his first large restaurant. He went on to establish the PolyAsian Restaurants, where Cantonese, Japanese, and Polynesian foods were served. He helped pioneer Chinese take out with the Chinese Oven and Hong Kong Chef restaurants. He served as president of the Houston Restaurant Association from 1961-62 as well as president of the Houston Lodge of the Chinese American Citizens Alliance (CACA), which he helped to found. For the first hundred years or so of CACA's history (founded in 1895), he was the only person not from California to ever serve as the CACA National Grand President. The records in this collection—documenting Albert Gee's recognition in CACA, the Houston community, and the nation—come from his two daughters, Linda Wu and Janita Gee. Wu graduated from the University of Texas, Austin with a degree in fashion merchandising, working in retailing with Joske's of Texas before becoming a real estate broker; she eventually retired, remaining active in Houston's Asian American community and serving as CACA president in 2011. Gee graduated from Texas Christian University and got her master's from San Francisco State College before working as head of the science department at Moreau Catholic High School in Hayward, California.
Rabbi Kessler was born in Houston, Texas, December 10, 1945. After attending local schools including being valedictorian and president of his graduating class at San Jacinto Senior High School, he earned his BA from the University of Texas in Austin, where he was a member of Tau Delta Phi fraternity. He earned the first doctorate in Texas Jewish history, at the Hebrew Union College Jewish Institute of Religion in Cincinnati, where he was also ordained as a rabbi.
Rabbi Kessler first served as director of the Texas Hillel, which serves the students attending the University of Texas. While there, Kessler taught very popular courses in the Religious Studies programs at UT and served on several committees at the request of the University president. He was a counselor at a summer retreat for Jewish youth - Echo Hill Ranch. Based on his long interest in Texas Jewish history, Kessler founded the Texas Jewish Historical Society in 1980. In July 2009, Kessler became the first rabbi in the 171-year history of Texas freemasonry to be named the presiding officer of a Masonic lodge, when Harmony Lodge of Galveston installed him as its new leader. Harmony Lodge was established in 1839.
Exerpted from: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jimmy_Kessler
James Donald Smith who went by the performance name Jimmy Don Smith was born in Fort Worth, TX on October 28, 1948. He attended Oklahoma State University. At 19, Smith, a self-taught musician, moved to Houston and began a career as a lead guitarist and singer. He joined a variety of bands including Blackwell, The Boontz All-Stars, The Rhythm Tramps, and his last band The Cold Cuts or Jimmy Don Smith and the Cold Cuts. He recorded at least three albums with Blackwell, The Boontz All-Stars, and The Cold Cuts.
In 1985, Smith was diagnosed with cancer and passed on January 25, 1986. His widow, Rutherene Smith aka Ruth Cole Hammett Smith raised money and endowed the Jimmy Don Smith Memorial Scholarship at the University of St. Thomas in Houston.
In 1980 Rabbi Jimmy Kessler of Galveston published letters in The Jewish Herald-Voice of Houston and in The Texas Jewish Post of Dallas/Fort Worth calling for the creation of a historical society to preserve the history of the Texas Jewish experience. As a result, in March 1980 a first Gathering of interested Texans took place in San Antonio to organize the Texas Jewish Historical Society, with Rabbi Kessler as its first president. Today, the Texas Jewish Historical Society has over 550 members. Since its founding, the TJHS has sponsored and encouraged research, publications, and projects on Texas Jewish history, providing a forum for scholars, students, journalists, and genealogists.
excerpted from: https://txjhs.org/history-of-tjhs/
Herman Levy (1840-1927) and Marie Auerbach Levy (1853-1926) emigrated from Germany with their families in the 1860s and married around 1875. The couple had several children, including Benherd (Ben) Mayer Levy (1882-1933). The couple is interred at Beth Israel Cemetery in Houston.
Arthur Lipper (1862-1924) was born in Mexico and Florence Larendon Lipper (1864-1955) was born in Texas. The two married around 1884 and had three children, including Mabel Lipper Levy (1887-1975). The couple is interred at Beth Israel Cemetery in Houston.
Ben and Mabel married around 1917 and had four children: Florence, Ben, Hortense, and Hildigarde. The couple is interred at Beth Israel Cemetery in Houston.
Hildegarde Levy (1921-2013) married Burton Cohn (1910-1993) and the couple had several children including Kathryn (Kathy) Cohn. Kathy married Tim Knott in 1977.
Naomi Warren (née Kaplan) was born on September 1, 1920 in Wołkowysk, Poland. After enrolling in a nearby university, Naomi met and married Alexander Rosenbaum in 1940. In January 1942, after the Nazis' invasion of Eastern Poland, Naomi and Alexander were sent to Auschwitz-Birkenau, where they were separated from each other. Alexander perished months later, and Naomi endured years in Auschwitz before being transferred to Ravensbrück and then to Bergen-Belsen, which was liberated by the British in 1945. The following year, Naomi immigrated to Houston, Texas, and in 1949, she married Martin Warren, with whom she had 3 children and started a successful business before he passed in 1960. Naomi retained an active role in the business and in the Houston community until her death on October 2, 2016. Information taken from https://hmh.org/survivors/list/naomi-warren_33e.
Rabbi Samuel Stahl was born in 1939 in Pennsylvania to Harry and Pearl Sherman Stahl. He graduated from the University of Pittsburgh in 1961, after which he began his rabbinical training at Hebrew Union College (HUC) in Cincinnati. He was ordained as a rabbi in 1967, then served as a chaplain until 1969. He then served for seven years as the rabbi of Temple B'nai Israel in Galveston, Texas. While in Galveston, he earned the degree of Doctor of Hebrew Letters from HUC in the field of medieval Bible commentaries. Then, he moved to San Antonio to serve as the senior rabbi of Temple Beth-El for 26 years. Rabbi Stahl retired in 2002 and serves as a rabbi emeritus at Temple Beth-El.
Chartered in 1928, Congregation K'nesseth Israel has served the Baytown Jewish community for over 90 years and enjoys a Texas Historical Marker. Although the building suffered damage following Hurricanes Ike and Harvey, the congregation and others in the Baytown community raised funds for its repair. K'nesseth Israel remains an important landmark in the South Texas Jewish community.
Jerry Wische grew up in Hillside, New Jersey, where he attended Hebrew school at Temple Sinai. After spending a year attending Penn State in the School of Architecture, Wische transferred to the University of Pittsburgh in 1962. The university was across the street from WMHA, which became the JCC, where he got a job leading a group with the Pittsburgh Chapter of Young Judaea. Less than a year after starting, he was asked to be interim director after the previous director left.
After six years working at the Pittsburgh JCC, Wische moved to Houston after he was recruited to be assistant director of the Houston JCC by, then director, Hans Mayer. When Mayer stepped down in 1977 to lead the Jewish Federation, Wische became director.
Jerry Wische retired from the Houston JCC in 2010 after 38 years of service.
Y. Ping Sun was born in Shanghai, China in 1957. She was raised by her grandparents in Tianjin, China because her parents worked in the military and frequently moved around the country. For secondary school, Ping was selected to attend a special school for foreign languages, where she studied English. She went on to become a member of the first group of Chinese students after the Cultural Revolution to take the college entrance exam in 1977 and be accepted into a Chinese university. Before she graduated from the Beijing Languages Institute, however, Ping was accepted into Princeton University, where she attended the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs from 1981 to 1985. After an internship at a law firm during her junior year of college, she decided to become a lawyer and attended Columbia Law School from 1985 to 1988. Ping's first job after law school was at an international corporate law firm in New York called White & Case, LLP. After four years there, she moved to France for a year during her husband's sabbatical leave. When she returned to New York, Ping worked at Sidley Austin Brown & Wood, LLP, another international corporate firm. After working there for eleven years, she moved to Houston when her husband became the President of Rice University. Ping now serves as a University Representative for Rice and is a counsel at Yetter Coleman, LLP. She is on the board of several nonprofit organizations where she represents Rice to the greater Houston community.
Jacob "Jake" H. Butler was born in Buffalo, Texas, on March 7, 1893, to Louis Butler and his wife whose name is unknown because Jake's mother died when he was quite young. He was one of 6 children: Jacob, Libbie, Leo, Sidney, Myron, and Nathan. Jake, his brother Leo, and his sister Libbie were sent to the Jewish Orphan Home in New Orleans, as his father could not take care of all the children. In 1902 Jake was able to rejoin his family in Houston; his father remarried Augusta Asher Butler, who had three children of her own. Jacob only attended school up to his middle school years, and got a job with the Houston Chronicle sweeping and taking calls after hours. He worked through the ranks to become the Manager of the Classified Department of the Houston Chronicle, and later was promoted to Business Manager of the Houston Chronicle, and eventually to Vice President.
Jacob was married to Della Lazarus Butler in 1917. They had one son, Myron Jack Butler, who was drafted by the professional hockey team Chicago Blackhawks after high school, but instead chose to attend Northwestern University and went into journalism. Jack worked at the Houston Chronicle like his father, and worked up to become Business Manager. Jack married Melanie Jones Butler in 1942 and they had two daughters, Pam and Jan.
Jacob Butler died June 20, 1973 after a long illness.
The National Council of Jewish Women (NCJW) was founded in 1893 and is the oldest Jewish women's grassroots organization in the country. The mission of NCJW is to improve the lives of the most vulnerable women, children, and families in the United States and Israel. The organization responds to the most pressing challenges facing not only Jewish women, but all vulnerable women, children, and families. Some of their work includes protecting reproductive rights, child care, and passing civil rights legislation.
The organization has over 60 sections in 30 states, including the Greater Houston Section of which Beverly Sufian was president from 1985 to 1987.
The Houston Post was founded in 1880 by Gail Borden Johnson. The paper began having financial difficulties and ceased operation in 1884. The Houston Post was re-established with a merger of the Houston Morning Chronicle and the Houston Evening Journal in April of the following year.
The Hobby family owned the paper from 1924 to 1983. Amid declining sales, the paper was sold to the Toronto Sun in 1983. Four years later MediaNews Group purchased the paper.
The Houston Post closed permanently on April 18, 1995. Its assets and liabilities, including the headquarters building, were acquired by Hearst Corporation, the publisher of the Houston Chronicle.
Excerpted from: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Houston_Post
Barry Morton Hertz was born November 24, 1946, in Birmingham, Alabama. Following graduation from Ramsay High School, Hertz attended Vanderbilt University and University of Akron. Mr. Hertz met Susan Lynn Schwartz at the Jewish Community Center in Houston. The couple married in 1976 and had two children: Scott and Brian Hertz. The family was very involved in the JCC and youth organizations, including the Boy Scouts.
Barry died in 2015 and is interred at Emanu El Memorial Park in Houston.
Minnie Wertheimer was born in Houston, April 27, 1889. She married George Schuleman in 1911 and had several children, including Israel and Schoel Schuleman, on April 10, 1921, and July 2, 1927, respectively. Israel grew up in Houston and graduated from San Jacinto High School in 1938. He graduated from Rice University in 1942, Pre-Med, and went on to the University of Texas Medical School, graduating in 1945. He was in private practice in Houston until his death at the age of 53, January 12, 1975.
This material was formerly housed in the Information Resource Center of Kellogg Brown & Root.
Received from Harold Hyman in 1981.
The Wheeler materials include biology lecture and laboratory notes, correspondence, an autobiography and a scrapbook. The bulk of this collection are two bound copies of the notes from the biology classes that George Wheeler took as a student at the Rice Institute through the years 1915 to 1918. His professors from these classes are the ones that make up all the correspondence in this manuscript collection. While at Rice, Wheeler enrolled in the following courses, which include both lectures and laboratory work: Elementary Biology (lecture: J. Huxley, lab: H. Muller and J. Davies), Cellular Biology (lecturer and lab: H. Muller), Heredity and Evolution (lecturers: H. Muller and E. Altenburg, lab: H. Muller) and Morphology of Animals (lecturer and lab: H. Muller). Please note, on the inside cover of the lecture notes, Wheeler pasted a postcard sent to him by Julian Huxley. Wheeler kept in touch with three of his undergraduate professors from the Rice Institute - Huxley, Muller and Davies - during and well after his graduation. In the letters from Huxley, Wheeler received continuing advice, career counseling and encouragement from his former academic advisor. Huxley left the Rice Institute in 1916 to fight in the First World War and was stationed on the Italian front where he wrote several letters to Wheeler expressing his nostalgic feelings for Rice which persists in his later correspondence. The letters from Muller and Davies equally express fond memories of Wheeler and Rice Institute and provide Wheeler with motivation for his career and gossip on affairs at Rice. In 1986, Wheeler authored a brief autobiography of his early career in biology entitled My Association with William Morton Wheeler. In this work, he describes vividly the reasons why he became a biologist, his studies and experiences at Rice Institute and his work at Harvard's Bussey Institute. Also included with George Wheeler's records is the memory book that he maintained during his stay at Rice Institute. In this scrapbook, Wheeler kept photographs of the biology staff, field trips and the campus, as well as newspaper and magazine clippings and memorabilia from social events.
Scope and Content
The collection contains business papers, correspondence, photographs, and memorabilia of the James Lockhart Autry family. Among the business papers are correspondence and legal briefs from the terms Autry served as general counsel to the Texas Company, president of Fidelity Trust Company, and vice-president and general counsel of the American Republics Corporation. Family papers include correspondence from Autry's grandfather Micajah Autry (1792-1836) to his wife describing his travels to Texas. Micajah Autry came to Texas to fight in the revolution and died at the Alamo. Autry's father, James Lockhart Autry, served as Speaker of the House of Representatives in Mississippi and practiced law in partnership with Lucius Cincinnatus Lamar. A number of papers deal with this aspect of his career as well as his service in the Confederate Army in which he attained the rank of Lieutenant Colonel and was killed at the Battle of Murfreesboro on December 31, 1862. Also included are correspondence from Autry's mother, Jeanie Valliant Autry Brown to her immediate family. The bulk of the collection pertains to James Lockhart Autry II's business papers, legal papers, numbered files, personal papers, memorabilia, and papers dealing with administration of his estate. 
Not all of James L. Autry's business files are represented in the numbered files. Autry wrote a memorandum describing the function, order and safekeeping of his files. From Memorandum concerning Jas. L. Autry's files (September 7, 1916): All of my files are regarded as personal...the plan of filing is numerical...each file takes a title of subject-matter. Although the various represented companies retained most of the correspondence that dealt strictly with the day to day business, there is still a great deal of important business correspondence and personal material in the files, especially that dealing with his Navarro County Ranch, since he apparently preferred that his secretary keep up such files. The files are arranged numerically indicated by number in brackets after file name (e.g., Hughes Rice Farm [510] 1904). Numbered files pertaining to Autry's work for the Texas Company have been removed and organized numerically in the sub-series Business Papers. Also removed are files containing correspondence and records regarding the building of the Autry residence on Courtlandt Place. These have been organized within the sub-series: Personal. Numbered files relating to Autry's legal career have been removed and organized in sub-series: Legal.
Numbered files pertaining to Autry's legal career beginning in 1881 under the apprenticeship of Beale up to and including his partnership with W.J. McKie.
This sub-series contains numbered files pertaining to The Texas Company and correspondence regarding Autry's other business interests. Autry's files on American Republics Corporation, Fidelity Trust Company, Mexico Fuel Company, and Texas Land & Abstract Company can be found in the Numbered Files series. An example of the business files of importance is the correspondence between McKie and Autry while they were still partners and representing the Texas Fuel Company. Also there are files related to Autry's resignation from the Texas Company with personal letters from friends commenting on his actions. Correspondence with Autry's other business partners: J.S. Cullinan and Will C. Hogg is also included.
This sub-series contains correspondence between family members and friends; numbered files referring to Autry's personal residences (Corsicana, Beaumont, and Courtlandt Place in Houston); family genealogy; photographs, clippings, memorabilia, and Autry family histories.
The materials in this sub-series deal with the administration of James L. Autry's estate: correspondence, financial statements, trust indentures, and personal bequests. Materials are arranged alphabetically by subject.
This sub-series contains correspondence, personal financial statements, photographs, and memorabilia related to Allie Kinsloe Autry. Also included are materials related to her mother, Katherine S. Kinsloe and other Kinsloe family members.
Consists of twelve boxes as well as some oversize material. A collection of documents, letters, Civil War materials, newspapers, and other miscellaneous material, connected with Brigadier General William Harrison Hamman (1830-1890), who lived in Texas during the Secession, Civil War, Reconstruction, and Bourbon period. The collection includes contemporary accounts of early Texas historical events and political opinions, as well as Hamman's legal and business papers (regarding oil land, gas, and minerals, etc.). Also included are the papers of Mrs. Ella Hamman; John Hamman (1879-1966), founder of the Hamman Exploration Company, which later became Hamman Oil and Refining Company, and a pioneer in the development of mineral resources in Texas, as well as a lawyer specializing in land and corporation law; and other Hamman family members. Materials in the collection are foldered in paper and some oversize material has been encapsulated.
The Clayton collection, covering the years 1897 to 1966, consists of ninety-nine boxes of originals and photocopies of business and personal correspondence, speeches, reports, photographs, memorabilia, and some oversize material such as certificates of appointment, which document the personal and professional life of Will Clayton and to a lesser degree, the Clayton family. Original materials in the collection relate to Clayton's personal and family life, including family correspondence and photographs, and oral histories by Clayton's daughter, Ellen Clayton Garwood, relating to her father's legacy. This original material is located in Series VI through XI. The bulk of the collection, in Series II (boxes 2-86), is comprised of photocopies of Clayton correspondence gleaned from numerous other institutions. The photocopied materials in this series were identified, ordered, and purchased by Frederick J. Dobney, Editor, Public Papers of William L. Clayton, Rice University, in the year 1967. The resulting compilation of materials was in 1971 as "Selected Papers of Will Clayton," published by Johns Hopkins University, edited by Dobney. While these materials are not original, they are convenient as a Clayton research collection, especially when used in coordination with the cardfile index which provides author / recipient name access to the chronologically arranged correspondence.
This, the largest of the series in this collection, is comprised of photocopies of letters to and from Will Clayton in his official capacities during the years 1926-1967. There are no original materials in this series; all materials are from repositories other than Rice. Items are filed in two groups: first, chronologically, with one item per folder, each with a citation for the holding repository. The second group is alphabetical by subject or correspondent, with as many clippings as pieces of correspondence. Use cardfile index to access these materials by sender / author name or by recipient name. Ask WRC staff for assistance.
Microfilm and audiotape holdings related to Clayton; originals held in repositories other than Rice.
U.S. Government published transcripts of Senate hearings. Bound volumes are unfoldered and filed in numerical order by volume.
Arranged in two subseries: A: Original correspondence, and B: Photocopies of correspondence. Both arranged by correspondent and then by date.
Includes one transcript of an interview with Clayton, and two works about Clayton.
Correspondence and oral history interviews created or acquired by Will Clayton's daughter's, Ellen Garwood, in researching her father's history.
This series includes family photographs, newsclippings, announcements, transcription of Burdine Clayton's diary, Will Clayton's passports, and a history of the Johnson and Clayton families.
The Berkeley collection consists of seven manuscript boxes of letters and naval orders spanning the years 1808 to 1813. All of the letters in this collection concern the naval operations under Berkeley's command. They include naval appointments, administrative orders, dismissals, discharges, conscription of U.S. seamen, and coordination of supply ships with the British Army. The letters in the collection were written primarily by men associated with the British Admiralty, the British Embassy in Portugal, or the British Army in Portugal. These men include Sir John Barrow (1746-1848), Second Secretary of the Admiralty from 1807 to 1845; Henry Phipps, 1st Earl of Mulgrave (1755-1831), First Lord of the Admiralty from 1807 to 1810; John Charles Villiers, 3rd Earl of Clarendon (1757-1838), envoy to the court of Portugal from 1808 to 1810; Arthur Wellesley, Duke of Wellington (1769-1852), eventual conqueror of Napoleon; and William Wellesley-Pole, 3rd Earl of Mornington (1763-1845), Secretary of the Admiralty from 1807 to 1809. Most of the letters are written to Berkeley; however, a few are initialed G.C.B. and some appear to be in Berkeley's hand. The letters are arranged alphabetically according to the author; within each author section the letters are arranged chronologically. Copies, as well as originals, are arranged in this manner.
The papers, 1804-1847, of Thomas Moore consist of letters, photographs and engravings, newspaper articles and clippings, poems and correspondence. The letters are arranged chronologically and divided into numbered and unnumbered originals and copies. The numbered letters, originals and copies are those included in the two volume edition, The Letters of Thomas Moore, edited by Wilfred S. Dowden (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1964.) Of the 1,323 numbered letters contained in the book, this collection has 223; 156 originals and 67 copies. The numbering on this list corresponds to the numbering system devised by Dr. Dowden. The unnumbered letters are those not included in The Letters of Thomas Moore, but which span the same time period and include both original letters and copies. The letters are arranged in the following manner: I. Numbered Originals, II. Unnumbered Originals, III. Numbered Copies, and IV. Unnumbered Copies. Numbered originals consist of those original letters contained in Dowden's work. Unnumbered originals include letters written by Moore, letter fragments and miscellaneous envelopes addressed or signed by Moore, some printed material about Moore and letters to Moore. Numbered copies consists of photocopies of letters written by Moore and included in the published edition. Among a variety of items found in the unnumbered copies are copies of letters letters written by Moore, copies of letters written to Moore, correspondence written concerning Moore and his works, and correspondence concerning the purchase of Moore material and excerpts from catalogues advertising Moore material. In addition to the numbered and unnumbered catagories mentioned above, there is a Commonplace Book contained in a black notebook filled with photocopies of pages in Moore's handwriting. Box 1 contains only numbered originals; box 2 contains numbered originals and unnumbered originals, numbered and unnumbered copies, microfilm, and the Commonplace Book.
This collection is a continuation of Woodson Research Library's earlier collection of the Letters of Thomas Moore (MS 015). The letters collected were purchased from Winifred A. Meyers (Autographs), Ltd. and Kenneth W. Rendell, Inc. Also included are four engravings of the poet, purchased from Colburn and Tegg (Hollis, New York.). These purchases were made between 1976 and 1978.
Eight small boxes of microfilm are included in the collection:
16 autographed letters and/or notes for the period 1802-1843. Recipients include J. Taylor, James Carpenter, James Power, Samuel Rogers. Several of the addressees are unknown. Also included is an undated check. Originals of thes microfilm are in the Pierpont Morgan Library. Items on the microfilm are not to be reproduced or quoted without the express permission of the Trustees of the Pierpont Morgan Library.
ALS, Ms, ANS, AL, DS, and music. About 70 items in all, covering the period 1802-1852. Among the addressees are James Perry, the Morning Chronicle, Robert Montgomery, T. S. Rice, D. F. Ryan, Edward R. Moran, Richard Bentley. Also included are Thomas Moore's will, and the Certificate of Administration of Thomas Moore's will (originals in the Bristol District Registry). Originals are housed in the National Library of Ireland. Items may not be reproduced without the permission of the National Library of Ireland.
27 autographed letters and notes written by Moore between 1810 and 1845. Among the addressees (most of whom are unknown) are James Power, James Carpenter and William L. Bowles. Included on the microfilm are 2 pages from Moore's "Life of Sir Edward Fitzgerald" (typescript). Originals are located in the Huntington Library and Art Gallery. Written permission to quote from, to reproduce, or to reprint must be obtained from copyright owners (if material is copyrighted) or from the Director of the Huntington Library.
14 autographed letters between 1812 and 1844. Addressees include James Power, James Carpenter and Washington Irving. An inventory of the film's contents and a restriction statement precedes the letters. Originals owned by the Historical Society of Pennsylvania.
27 autographed letters, notes and manuscripts written by Moore between 1813 and 1844. Addressees include James Carpenter, James Power, William Bowles, Richard Bentley, Edward Moxon and others. Microfilm made by the Harvard College Library. No restriction statement on film.
Letters written between 1815-1829. Addressees include Mr. James Power. Originals located in the Historical Society of Pennsylvania; and the right to reproduce the material must be secured from the Director of the Society, applied for and granted in writing. A partial inventory precedes the film.
7 ALS dated 1815-1843. Addressees are Mr. Longman, Mrs. Belcher; other unknown; certain letters pertain to musical matters. Originals are located in the Huntington Library and Art Gallery. Written permission to quote from, to reproduce, or to reprint material must be obtained from the copyright owner (copyrighted material) or from the Director of the Huntington Library. A partial inventory and restriction statement precedes the film.
4 ALS written around 1830 by Moore. Three of the letters are in the Trinity College Library; the other is the property of Lieutenant-Col. M. O'C. Fitzsimmon of Glencullen Co., Dublin. There is no inventory or restriction statement on the microfilm.
(Sm. Ms. box) Corrected galleys of poems, including the following titles, and digitized copy on DVD:
The F. Curtis Michel Scientist-Astronaut Papers consist of 68 linear feet of material organized into two series, Academic Papers (1951-1979) and NASA Papers (c. 1963-1981). The collection includes correspondence, memos, technical handbooks, training manuals, course and seminar notes, photographs, and a great variety of ephemera, including a flight jacket with NASA emblem. Extensive scientific research material in the collection (seminar notes, scholarly publications, and such) provide a good overview of contributions from the academic community to NASA's various endeavors. The collection has interest not only for the extensive material concerning Michel's work in the Scientist-Astronaut program, but also for glimpses into the administrative workings of NASA and the tensions between various groups involved with the space program. Michel's candid observations and reflections both during his years as an astronaut and after his resignation offer an unusual look at a complex institution and the gifted individuals whose lives were caught up in it. Series I: Academic Papers contains material from Michel's days as a graduate student in physics at California Institute of Technology and correspondence and research materials pertaining to his academic position at Rice University. Of particular interest is the early correspondence between Michel and officials at NASA concerning his interest in and later application to the Scientist-Astronaut Program. A number of newspaper clippings from 1963 concerning plans for the program and Michel's interest in it are also helpful in documenting the new directions underway in the national space effort toward lunar flight and research. Of equal interest is material from the period following Michel's resignation in August, 1965. Correspondence and clippings reveal an intense ongoing critique of manned space flight programs, with debate between members of the scientific community and NASA over how to balance the demands of scientific research with those of technical flight proficiency. Series II: NASA Papers, is divided into seventeen sub-series. The Correspondence sub-series consists of correspondence about the Scientist-Astronaut Program, personal correspondence, letters to and from the public, and administrative and travel material. The sub-series is especially valuable in documenting Michel's experience with NASA, including his application for admission to the Scientist-Astronaut Program, astronaut work assignments and training, pertinent clippings about NASA, early doubts about continuing in the program, and factors leading to his resignation in 1969. The last three folders contain manuscript notes for a book discussing his NASA experiences, and also his response to a Space Program Advisory Council study of the Scientist-Astronaut program, which was conducted in 1974-75, accompanied by a copy of the resulting report. Astronaut Training and Familiarization gives a good overview of the many technical and scientific areas in which an astronaut was expected to develop proficiency. Areas included geology and astronomy, Gemini Program familiarization, flight training, and the Apollo Program. The Gemini Program, Apollo Program, Surveyor Program, and Space Station sub-series include material from four NASA programs, with good coverage of experiments conducted and samplings of scientific publications contributing to these programs, while the Technical and Scientific Publications gives an idea of the variety of material produced between 1950 and 1970 relating to space research. Included in the Oversize Materials is a commemorative album, large photographs, and assorted newspapers and publications. Photographs of the various groups of astronauts are found in the Photograph sub-series, including Group 4, Michel's group of Scientist-Astronauts, and a number of photographs of Michel in his role as an astronaut. Geologic scenes and various technical subjects make up the remainder of the sub-series, along with an astronaut training film. The final subseries, Memorabilia, contains a wide variety of material collected by Michel during his affiliation with NASA. Boxes 67 and 68 hold commemorative plaques, medallions and insignia, certificates, postal envelopes, launch invitations, calendars, and assorted other items. Series III: Includes NASA photographs, records, correspondence, and a partial flight plan; World Book Encyclopedia materials; and news clippings
This series contains Michel's correspondence from the California Institute of Technology and some correspondence from Rice University. Additionally, there is correspondence between Michel and NASA regarding the Scientist-Astronaut Program.
Arranged in seventeen sub-series - Correspondence, Personal Correspondence, Administrative Material, Travel, Astronaut Training and Familiarization, Gemini Training, Flight Training, Apollo Training, Gemini Program, D.O.D. Defense Experiments, Program Support Requirements, Apollo Program, Surveyor Program, Space Station Program, Technical and Scientific Publications, Oversized Materials and Photographs, and Memorabilia. This series includes correspondence, notes on experiments, publications, photographs and ephemera relating to NASA and the four major space exploration projects it was involved in between 1963 and 1981.
The collection documents Huxley's role as a synthesizer and educator who influenced thinking in many areas, including studies of taxonomy and relative growth, pioneering work in ethology, and important writing in the early twentieth-century synthesis of Mendelian genetics and Darwinian theory. His belief that evolution was not only biological but social and cultural as well led to interests in eugenics, population control, conservation and humanist movements. Linking scientists, science and other fields and science and the public, Huxley corresponded with such scientists, artists, writers and social figures as Kenneth Clark, J.B.S. Haldane, H.J. Muller, Bertrand Russell, Stephen Spender and H.G. Wells. Other materials found in the papers include original writings, publications of others, organizational, conference and travel materials, personal diaries, photographs and memorabilia. Correspondence forms approximately one-third of the papers. It exemplifies the shape of the collection as a whole in that its volume increases steadily from the early years onward, peaking in the 1950s and 1960s and diminishing sharply during the times of Sir Julian's depressions. The most substantive part of the collection, the correspondence, not only includes letters from many twentieth-century intellectual, social and cultural leaders, but also provides the most information about Sir Julian and his myriad activities. Sir Julian's own writings -- published and unpublished - comprise another one-third of the collection.
This series includes documents which predate 1909, the year of Huxley's graduation from Oxford. Here are some of the most personal glimpses of Huxley, in journals, drawings, schoolwork, poems and other writings. While the series contains a typescript of a poem by Enid Bagnold, dated 1908, most pre-1909 works by others have been separated to Series X: Manuscripts, Publications, and Addresses by Others, because there is evidence that Huxley did not receive them until after 1909. For other early materials, see Series XIV: Box Files, especially the file entitled "Birds and Bird-Watching". The series does not include visual materials and correspondence.
This series consists of the lifetime correspondence with members of his large and talented family, except for some letters retained by the family. There are, for example, none from his grandfather Thomas Henry Huxley, and few from his brother Aldous. There are, however, letters from his brother Trevenen, his sister Margaret, his half-brothers David and Andrew and from his numerous Arnold, Arnold-Forster and Eckersley relatives. The family correspondence is filed in alphabetical order according to the name of the family member. A family tree appears in the index to this guide and a card file of family members is included in the first box in this series. Family correspondence is often addressed to both Sir Julian and his wife, or to Juliette individually. These letters are filed among those addressed to Huxley alone. Undated correspondence has been treated somewhat differently. In cases where the decade is known, the letters will be filed at the end of that decade. Letters without any date are filed together in alphabetical order by name of the correspondent at the end of the correspondence series. Note: Some correspondence can also be found in Series XIV: Box Files.
This correspondence includes the names of some of the most significant cultural, political and scientific figures of the 20th century. Moreover, the content is substantive, chronicling the immense variety of Huxley's interests and the influence which he exerted in the fields of science and culture, and includes letters to Huxley as well as drafts and carbon copies from him. This series contains not only "general" correspondence, but also a sampling of the variety of letters a prominent or controversial figure might expect to receive: petitions for aid, crank letters, even hate mail, as well as expressions of support and admiration. Of particular interest are the letters from the correspondents listed in the index at the back of this guide. This correspondence is filed chronologically with the other more general correspondence in order to present a more accurate picture of its context. No enclosures which are themselves correspondence are indexed. In cases where a letter has an attachment, both items are found filed under the date of the letter to which the attachment is affixed. Undated correspondence has been treated somewhat differently. In cases where the decade is known, the letters will be filed at the end of that decade. Letters without any date are filed together in alphabetical order by name of the correspondent at the end of the correspondence series. Various officers of organizations do not necessarily appear as individual correspondents in this index. Examples of such organizations include the United Nations, International Planned Parenthood Foundation, the Population Council, British Medical Association and others. Look for the organization name in the General Correspondence index. Note: Some correspondence in also to be found in Series XIV: Box Files.
This series contains pocket diaries, journals, notes, exercise books and calendars kept by Huxley from 1910 until his death, arranged in chronological order. They are rich in information of both personal and scientific nature. From his youth, there are notebooks of biological drawings, bird-watching notes, class notes and essays. The pocket diaries of the later period contain appointments, itineraries and observations about activities in which he was involved at various times. Those notebooks from Huxley's Oxford and University of London period also contain faculty lists and university schedules. Of particular interest are the journals kept by Huxley throughout his life which provide a wealth of biographical material. Other journals which relate to his travels are found in the TRAVEL MATERIALS series. Notebooks containing drafts of his autobiography are found in Series V: Manuscripts, Typescripts, and Notes. Pre-1909 materials are found in Series I: Early Materials.
This series contains notes, manuscripts and typescripts written by Huxley between 1910 and 1974. This series is particularly rich because it details the development of his thought and conveys the variety of his interests. There are poems and short stories written when he was a young man, notes on scientific work and classroom lectures given during the period when he taught biology. (N.B. Among these are a series of lectures he prepared while at Rice.) The series also contains manuscripts and/ or typed copies of articles, book reviews, drafts of letters to editors and public lectures. Of special interest are the manuscripts for the Romanes Lecture (1943), the Kalinga Prize Speech (1953), the Lasker Award Address (1959) and the John Danz Lecture (1962); and those of The Science of Life, The Humanist Frame, From an Antique Land and both volumes of Huxley's autobiography, Memories. The manuscripts, typescripts and notes are in chronological order. However, many of the notes and manuscript fragments are on undated scraps of paper and some are almost illegible. Therefore, although the greatest care has been taken to ascertain the date for each fragment, it was impossible to accurately place each manuscript or note. The researcher should bear this in mind when using these materials.
The publications series contains material (exclusive of books) published by Sir Julian: reprints of scholarly works, newspaper and magazine articles, as well as letters to editors and reviews of the works of others. This series covers the time period from 1920 to 1974, and is arranged in chronological order. A list of these materials is in the first folder of the first box in the series. The series does not comprise the whole of Sir Julian's printed work. It consists, rather, of those reprints and clippings which he retained in his files. Those interested in a complete bibliography of Sir Julian's work should consult John Baker's Julian Huxley, Scientist and World Citizen, (Paris: Unesco, 1978).
This series comprises a mixture of travel diaries, notes, collected documents and memorabilia such as programs and exhibit catalogues filed chronologically by the year of each trip. Newspaper articles included here provide more information than the often sketchy notes, telling of Huxley's debate on Soviet science with Nuzhdin in Karachi, 1954, or his attendance at a meeting concerned with nuclear weapons in New York in 1961. Unesco is well represented here, with diaries of the 1946-47 trips to South and Central America and the 1948-49 trip to Central Europe and the Middle East. Note that conference materials and photographs have been separated to their respective categories, including the 1959 U.S. trip for the Darwin Centenary, the Wroclaw conference, 1948, and the Indian Science Conference, 1954. Note also that some of the publications collected as part of Huxley's travel assignments - reports on conservation for example - are filed with MANUSCRIPTS, PUBLICATIONS AND ADDRESSES BY OTHERS. Materials on Huxley's Russian trip may also be found in the BOX FILES.
This series contains papers relating to conferences, meetings and symposia in which Huxley took part. These papers include programs, newspaper clippings, abstracts and papers of participants, and Huxley's notes and speech manuscripts. Correspondence concerning the conferences included in this series is to be found among the Huxley correspondence files. In some cases, however, copies of original letters have been included with the relevant conference or symposium papers. Materials from conferences which Huxley did not attend are filed in the MANUSCRIPTS, PUBLICATIONS AND ADDRESSES BY OTHERS series. Of particular interest among the conference materials are papers dealing with the Wroclaw (Breslau) Conference, the Darwin Centennial Observation and the Royal Society Symposium on Ritualization of Behavior in Animals and Man.
While Series I: General Correspondence contains substantive and personal communications between Sir Julian and members of specific organizations, this series includes membership rosters, reports and newsletters, speeches, minutes and memoranda, organizational publications, notes, press releases and clippings. The organizations represented here reflect Huxley's varied interest in biology, humanism, eugenics and population control and conservation. Occasionally files overlap: the founding of the World Wildlife Fund is documented in the "Nature Conservancy" and "World Wildlife Fund" files; the Galapagos Island expedition is recorded in the Royal Society's Pacific Expedition Committee minutes and in the "Charles Darwin Foundation for the Galapagos Islands" file. Most items fall in the 1940-1966 period. Some organizations, such as the Royal Society and Eugenics Society, have fairly complete runs of material over a period of years; most, however, such as the Naples Zoological Station, are represented by only a few documents, or, as in the case of Unesco, several unrelated items spanning many years of sporadic collecting. Two files with perhaps the most original and complete materials are those concerning the Unesco "History of the Social and Cultural Development of Mankind" for the years 1948-1966 and a discussion group active in the 1950s, the "Idea Systems Group." Organizations which solicited Sir Julian's support also have material in this series - such as the Religious Society of Families, a eugenically-based community in the United States. Government publications and publications sponsored by an organization but authored by individuals are in the MANUSCRIPTS, PUBLICATIONS AND ADDRESSES BY OTHERS series. See also CONFERENCE MATERIALS for organizational material on specific events.
Materials in this series resemble those in the CLIPPINGS files in that their subject matter spans Huxley's interests: from professional and popular science to conservation and population control to fine arts, education, religion and philosophy. Arranged chronologically by year and alphabetically by first author within each year, the series includes articles from scientific journals, typescripts and galleys sent to Huxley by friends and colleagues, radio and television scripts, government reports on conservation and population, poems and topical newspaper articles on such subjects as photography and travel. Publications by other members of the Huxley family are included in this series. Materials whose date is unknown are arranged alphabetically and follow dated publications. Reviews of books not by Huxley have been gathered together and arranged chronologically following all other publications, several reviews are by well-known figures such as Stephen Spender and Arnold Toynbee. Reviews of Huxley's books are filed in the CLIPPINGS - Biographical Materials series. Folder 1 contains a list of the material in this series, which excludes papers presented at conferences which Huxley attended (see CONFERENCE MATERIALS), documents enclosed with correspondence (see GENERAL CORRESPONDENCE) or organizational reports and publications (see ORGANIZATIONAL MATERIALS). Much material similar to that found here is in Huxley's subject arranged BOX FILES. Short newspaper articles on current events and topics are found in the CLIPPINGS series. Note also that much of Huxley's library is owned by rice. Runs of journals and some pamphlets are part of this separate collection.
Clippings have been left with related materials wherever possible; for instance, articles about Huxley's trips are found in the Series VII: Travel Materials. Clippings attached to correspondence have been left with the appropriate letter. The files are divided into two subseries: "Biographical Materials" and "General Clippings." "Biographical Materials" consists primarily of articles about Huxley but also includes vitae and bibliographies. They are arranged chronologically by year with reviews of Huxley's books separated and filed following the appropriate year(s) of biographical materials. Huxley's controversial activities and the public's response are well documented: his 1920 thyroid experiments, his Conway Lecture in 1930, the 1942 "zoo controversy" and his warnings about overpopulation and ecological dangers in the 1950s and 1960s. Reviews of books about or by other Huxley family members are also found here."General Clippings" report current events, information on friends and colleagues, and oddities (labeled by Huxley). Subjects represented here reflect Huxley's varied interests in science, politics, the arts, religion and philosophy, including, for example, clippings about the Scopes Trial, population control and conservation and issues of African independence. Arrangement is chronological with dating following Huxley's notation: day/month/year.
This contains photographs, slides, cartoons and sketches of the collection, as well as maps and Audubon bird prints. The collection spans Huxley's life and interests, including photographs of Eton school fellows, professional associates, colleagues and friends, and sketches of plant life, travels and expeditions. Of special interest are the photographs of Texas flora and fauna, the Oxford expedition to Spitsbergen, Huxley's several trips to Russia, and his later travels, first for Unesco and later as an expression of his own interests. There are also photographs of family members and friends, including a fine portrait of H.G. Wells, and several cartoons of Unesco figures, as well as many pictures recording animal behavior. One of the most beautiful portions of the series are the drawings made by Huxley. These drawings range in subject matter from biological drawings to sketches and doodles. There are also one or two landscapes in pencil and some lovely drawings of plants. There are also numerous miscellaneous photographs of people and places, as well as slides either taken by Huxley or sent to him by friends or colleagues. The photographs and visual materials are arranged according to subject matter rather than in chronological order, and care has been taken to leave together photographs which arrived at this archive in groups.
This series is by its nature the most miscellaneous and eclectic of the collection, for it contains both personal and professional souvenirs and mementos from 1910 until Huxley's death. These are arranged by decade in chronological order, and include playbills and concert programs, banquet menus, limericks and jokes, copies of legal documents, awards, citations and membership certificates, Christmas card and guest lists, and names and addresses of friends and associates. There is also a sampling of curiosities and souvenirs which were of interest to Huxley and kept by him: picture post cards, unusual advertisements, travel brochures and business cards. Series XV: BOX FILES also contains a large collection of picture post cards.
Sir Julian collected reprints, clippings, notes, lectures and correspondence and filed them by subject in his box files. These files were sold to a dealer in the 1970s who compiled a contents listing and rough name index for them (available on request). The listing also includes a biographical note and a general description of the file contents. Materials in the BOX FILES span the same dates as the core collection and are most numerous during the same period, 1940-1970. Of special note are notes on the Crested Grebe in the "Birds and Bird-Watching" file, the files on Russia and a collection of about 200 picture postcards.
Walter Gardner Hall has been a man of many parts--most of them seemingly incongruous. He has been a successful banker and a champion of the liberal wing of the Texas Democratic Party. He has had important social and business ties with the conservative Houston establishment and at the same time has been a close friend of such anti-establishment figures as John Henry Faulk. Through the political wars of the 1950's and 1960's, Hall managed to remain on good terms personally and politically with both Lyndon B. Johnson and Ralph W. yarborough, the oft-feuding leaders of the Texas Democrats on a national level. Within the 25 shelf feet of the Hall Papers there is a record of these diverse associations. Contained within these papers as well is much information on the men and women with whom Hall corresponded. Among the most notable politicians are Lyndon Johnson, Ralph Yarborough, Sam Rayburn, Minnie Fisher Cunningham, Jim Wright, and Hubert Humphrey. Hall often served as an access route from the people of the Gulf Coast to these politicians, and his letters to the lesser-known folk of his area are equally interesting. Walter Hall, though, has been more than a political animal; his papers reflect extremely close ties with his sons and with friends such as J. R. Parten, George Heap Alexander, W. A. Cooper, Fagan Dickson, and Ralph Yarborough. Besides speaking of politics and Hall's feelings for other human beings, these papers say much about Walter Hall himself. Hall is the piece of the puzzle which makes these incongruous parts fit together into an understandable whole. His ability to accept divergent opinion if honestly held and to work within the practical limits of a situation reveal some of the reasons for his political and economic success. At the same time, his political values and his position in the midrange between political officials and the voting public illustrate why the American system of government has worked as well as it has.
The William Ward Watkin Papers, totaling 13 document boxes, detail the academic and architectural career of Watkin. The papers include correspondence, newspaper clippings, photographs and architectural drawings gathered by Annie Ray Watkin from her father's papers. The collection is arranged in three series. The Biographical series concentrates on Watkin's personal life. It includes materials from his school days, family correspondence, speeches, lectures and writings. The speeches and writings are architectural in subject. The series Architectural Career covers both Watkin's time at Rice and his private practice. Watkin first came to Rice in 1910, as an employee of the architecture firm Cram, Goodhue and Ferguson. He oversaw the construction of the Administration Building, the Mechanical Laboratory and Power Plant, and a Residential Group, the first buildings on the campus. Then, Watkin went on to design and supervise the building of other structures on campus. Most of the materials in the sub-series, Rice Institute, are photographic but there are some textual materials. The sub-series Private Practice incorporates many projects Watkin undertook outside of his career at Rice. These papers include correspondence with clients and drawings of projects. The final series Academic Career touches upon the various roles Watkin played at Rice, other than as architect. Most prominent are records from his time with the Architecture department.
Arranged in seven sub-series - Personal, Family, Correspondence, Financial Information, Memberships, Speaking Engagements, Writings. This series includes a variety of personal information about Watkin from college days to family vacations. The Writings sub-series includes articles, lectures, and reviews of Watkin's books.
Arranged in two sub-series - Rice Institute and Private Practice. This series includes correspondence and drawings (some oversized) about many architectural projects Watkin supervised and designed.
Arranged in four sub-series - General, Architecture Department, Curator of Athletics and Curator of Grounds. The General sub-series includes information that couldn't be placed into another category. This series includes material specifically related to Watkin's academic positions.
The Osterhout Family Papers detail the lives of John Patterson Osterhout and his family in Texas and in Central America during the latter half of the nineteenth and the early twentieth centuries. This collection primarily consists of the correspondence, professional records and personal effects of the Osterhout family.
The first series follows the personal life and professional career of John Osterhout from his schooldays and teaching career in Pennsylvania to his death in Belton, Texas in 1903. With respect to his personal correspondence, the collection holds many of the letters that John sent as well as those that he received; thus, it is increasingly easy to explore the day to day affairs and concerns of the man. Outside of the social value of these papers, John Osterhout's records hold a great deal of information on a variety of subjects such as the American Civil War, legal issues, state and national politics, Indian raids, slavery and the Texas Revolution.
The second series contains Paul Osterhout's personal and professional records. They chronicle his life from his academic career at Baylor College and the Jefferson Medical College in Pennsylvania, through his stay in Central America and his return to Texas. Paul's letters from school provide a good look at life in a boarding school and an out-of-town university. The records, especially the correspondence, from Nicaragua, Colombia and Panama detail a number of topics from running a plantation, to being an American in a foreign country, to combating yellow fever, to lengthy descriptions of the political changes and turmoil that Nicaragua and Colombia endured in the later 1800's and early 1900's.
Since the records of John and Paul Osterhout make up the bulk of the papers, they have been placed in their own series. The third series is dedicated to the other members of the Osterhout family and general family materials. The letters of Gertrude and Ora Osterhout, as well as Gertrude's journal, provide information on the daily affairs of the all female boarding school, Baylor Female College. The letters of Junia (Roberts) Osterhout generally are either to or from her siblings in other states. Jeremiah's correspondence is solely from his stay with his brother Paul in Nicaragua and sheds some more light on the political affairs of the country in 1894. The Wade family papers, which were added to the Osterhout family papers when Ora married into the Wade family, are dated from the 1860's and give more evidence on the American Civil War.
The Osterhout's were active Baptists and with their collection came a number of printed materials concerning the Baptist religion in Texas in the later half of the nineteenth century. Also included in this series are letters of standing for various individuals that moved to new Baptist communities. These letters give testimony to the good standing of the persons within their old church community.
The last series is made up of a number of architectural plans for houses that were designed by P. Herbert. It is assumed that they may be some of the homes that the Osterhouts resided in; however, as there is no information about these plans, it is difficult to be sure for whom these homes were designed. A few of the houses have their complete plans including the front and side exteriors, the various floors, the roofs and the foundation plans. Other houses are only partially complete.
This series is arranged in two sub-series--Personal Life and Professional Life. In the sub-series Professional Life, the Legal and Public Service Correspondence and the Legal Documents include some of the letters and records of Abram Frear, John Osterhout's legal partner. Some of the subjects exhibited in this series are the Civil War, state and national politics, slavery, and the Texas Revolution.
This series has two sub-series--Personal Life and Professional Life. May Osterhout's personal correspondence has been kept among Paul's correspondence because it is addressed primarily to Paul's family and are written in part on Paul's behalf. Topics in this series include education, the Yellow Fever Epidemics in Central America, World War I, rubber and banana plantations, the overthrow of the Nicaraguan government in 1894, the Nicaraguan-American Conflict in Mosquito Reservation 1894-1895 and the War of a Thousand Days in Colombia 1899-1902.
Consisting of the correspondence and personal effects of the remaining members of the Osterhout family, this series has been divided into two sub-series - Correspondence and Subject Files. The folder noted as Miscellaneous Correspondence holds the letters that are not from or addressed to any of the members of John Osterhout's family in Texas and are in chronological order. The personal effects of the Wade and Bouldin families come from the family that Ora Osterhout married into. This series deals with subjects such as education, the Civil War, state and national politics and the Nicaraguan-American Conflict 1894-1895.
This series provides information on the Baptist Church in the state of Texas in the nineteenth century. Most of the records are minutes, pamphlets and newspapers that circulated throughout Texas. These records were separated from the other family materials upon their arrival at Rice University and have been maintained in this order.
These plans were drawn by P. Herbert. Sets of plans are separated into individual homes.
The papers of the American mathematician, historian of science, and teacher, Salomon Bochner, begin with his career in Germany, receiving a D. Phil from the University of Berlin and teaching mathematics at the University of Munich. At an early age he established a considerable reputation in Europe for his work in harmonic analysis. In 1933 he joined the mathematics faculty of Princeton University, where he remained until 1968. Although he continued his work in harmonic analysis while at Princeton, he also achieved much fame in the fields of several complex variables, probability theory, and in the history and philosophy of science. His last years were spent as the Edgar Odell Lovett Professor of Mathematics at Rice University. Even though he continued to teach both undergraduate and graduate courses in mathematics at Rice, his scholarly work there was principally historical. The collection consists of correspondence, manuscripts produced in the preparation of articles, books and lectures, financial and legal documents, and printed material in the form of off-prints and books. Bochner's correspondents included many of the most distinguished scholars of the twentieth century. Their letters complement the scholarly works found in the collection, and both series reflect the profundity and breadth of Bochner's ideas and interests and the influence he exerted in the realm of mathematics and history. Salomon Bochner's papers were donated to Rice University and placed in Fondren Library's Woodson Research Center in 1982 by his daughter, Deborah Bochner Kennel. On 11 May she donated five record storage boxes from his home in Houston, and she arranged to have sent on 12 October an additional thirty-four boxes from the Mathematics Department of Princeton University. Along with the manuscripts came a great number of books. Only those books which were either written by Bochner or annotated by him have been retained with the papers. The remainder were given to the Fondren Library to be distributed among its regular collections. Roughly half of the collection consists of correspondence and the manuscripts produced in preparation for a tremendous number of scholarly works. These two sections correspond with each other chronologically in that the bulk of the material in each falls between 1968 and 1981, the years Bochner spent at Rice University. The rest of the collection is less significant but potentially useful. The financial and legal manuscripts provide some detail on the practical affairs of an American academic, and the thirty-six linear feet of off-prints, which make up part of the collection, reflect Bochner's varied scholarly interests and may prove useful to the researcher when references to such works appear in the manuscripts. The collection as received was almost completely unorganized, and a chronological or an alphabetical arrangement was used according to the nature of the various categories that emerged during processing. The number of items in each box and file is given in brackets. Separate descriptions for each series precede its inventory.
See Index to Correspondents for a list of correspondents, as they are not listed individually here. Although correspondence makes up only about sixteen per cent of the entire collection, it contains some of the most valuable research material. Of course some of the letters deal with personal, practical, legal, and financial affairs, but many by both Bochner and his colleagues discuss scholarly matters in such detail and at such length that they could almost be considered unpublished works, amply demonstrating the profundity and breadth of Bochner's ideas and interests and the influence he exerted in the realm of mathematics and the history of science. His correspondents included many of the most distinguished scholars of the twentieth century from such diverse disciplines as art, classics, mathematics, linguistics, biology, physics, philosophy, and history. Chronologically, the bulk of the correspondence falls within the period from 1968 to 1982 when Bochner was at Rice University. Any documents attached to a letter were not separated; therefore, any single item may contain any number of leaves of both correspondence and other related material. The letters are arranged into two sections: incoming in alphabetical order and outgoing in chronological order. Because almost all of the letters are dated, one may locate a correspondent who wrote to Bochner in both Part I of the Index of Correspondents and the papers themselves, and use the date on the letters to follow the correspondence into the chronological files. Similarly, because Bochner kept carbon or photographic copies of almost all of his letters, one interested in a particular period of Bochner's life or work may begin with the chronological arrangement and follow the trail of individual correspondents of interest within the alphabetical section. Those to whom Bochner wrote have been listed in Part II of the Index of Correspondents.
Manuscripts of scholarly works make up a large and significant gathering of research material. Bochner wrote many versions of his many articles and books. These files reveal the evolution of his thought from handwritten notes to the completed manuscript. Most items are full of deleted paragraphs, insertions, and marginal comments. A great majority of his publications after his arrival in the United States in 1932 are represented here. Moreover, some of the works found here were never published: the handwritten notes to lectures, articles and books that were started but never finished, and a major book which Bochner was near completing upon his death. The title given each file follows as closely as possible Bochner's own label for the item or the name of the eventual publication to which it pertained. The entire series is arranged in alphabetical order by title. Among items of the same title, an attempt was made to arrange them according to the chronology of their creation, not publication, in order to reveal the sequence of revisions. When it was possible to ascertain an exact date, it was given in the inventory. A printout of all of the bibliographical citations to Bochner's publications in chronological order is in the control file of the collection and is available to researchers upon request.
This category contains some of the teaching materials Bochner collected during his long career as a teacher at Munich, Princeton, and Rice, and the numerous notebooks he kept throughout his life. The two were grouped together because many of the notebooks contain teaching notes as well as language drills, poetry, a short diary, and more advanced mathematical notations.
This series is comprised of legal and financial documents, personal references, and photographs. The legal and financial documents include wills, publishing and consultant contracts, diplomatic papers, personal bills, high school and university transcripts, military records, receipts, royalty statements, diplomas, certificates, insurance claims, and medical records. Arranged in chronological order from 1914 to 1981, they provide some early biographical data regarding Bochner's education in Poland and Germany, his citizenship, and his military service during World War I. They also give a glimpse of his financial dealings with publishers, particularly Princeton University Press. The personal references from teachers and employers were written in the form of general statements concerning Bochner's moral and academic characteristics rather than as true letters to specific individuals. For this reason, they were not included in the correspondence category. The four such statements in the collection, all within the period 1915-1924, are from his preparatory school in Berlin, the Konigstadtisch Oberrealschule, his professor at the University of Berlin, Issal Schur, the Cuten and Syman banking firm, where he worked for almost a year, and Josef Wdowinski, for whom Bochner worked as a secretary. The twenty-seven photographs of the collection consist of mostly unidentified snapshots of Bochner and his colleagues and family in Munich, Princeton, Houston, Los Angeles, and Bombay from c.1928 to c. 1981.
The printed material within the collection is of two types: off-prints and books. The off-prints, collected by Bochner throughout his life and consisting of many articles that are now hard to obtain, were divided between those that were written by Bochner himself and those written by others. The former group was arranged in chronological order and the latter in alphabetical order. Although Bochner's library was large, only books written by him or those in which he made annotations were retained with the collection. They were arranged in alphabetical order by author.
The William Goyen papers are organized in five general categories: correspondence; manuscripts and notes; serial publications; reviews and publicity; and proofs and galleys. Boxes 1-4 contain correspondence, including correspondence from Goyen to William Hart (1937-1973); and correspondence from Goyen to his family (1940-1963), Boxes 2-4, and one folder of photographs, one folder of "family ephemera" such as newsclippings. Boxes 5-10 contain notes, correspondence, and drafts for five of Goyen's major works, as follows: The House of Breath (Boxes 5-6); Ghost and Flesh (Box 7); In a Farther Country (Box 8); The Faces of Blood Kindred (Box 9); and The Fair Sister (Box 10). Serial Publications (1947-1978) are in Box 11; Reviews and Publicity are found in Box 12; and Box 13 includes Proofs and Galleys for The Collected Stories of William Goyen, Precious Door, Nine Poems, and A Book of Jesus.
includes newspaper clippings; 2 copies of The Cougar (2/6/42 and 12/11/42); church bulletins; graduation exercises; program for US Naval Reserve Midshipmen's School; USS Casablanca menus; greeting cards sent to Goyen family; etc.
also:
also:
Green's diary includes a table of contents, written on the inside of the front cover, and hand-numbered pages. Topics include clothing and other items drawn from government supplies and prices paid; dates and amounts of pay received; several pages of places visited while on campaign and fighting encountered along the way; deaths and diseases in the regiment; deserters; and weather. Scattered references in the diary indicate that Green served during the Yorktown campaign (1862), the Rapidan Offensive (1863), and the Battle of the Wilderness (summer, 1864). He also mentions meeting President Abraham Lincoln while the president and his wife toured a hospital in Virginia April 8, 1865. In May 1865 Green marched in the General Review of the Army in Washington, D.C.; he later records the welcoming receptions given his regiment in various cities as they traveled back to Michigan, and notes his own discharge from duty in June 1865. He later notes moving to Kansas in 1872, where he purchased a claim in Sumner County and settled there.
The collection of the Dillingham Family Papers, consisting of approximately 900 items or 1.25 linear feet, follows the history of a prominent Texas family from 1858 to 1958. Correspondence, manuscripts, printed material, photographs, journals, poetry, and newspaper clippings show the life style of a family who moved into Texas during the prosperous era of the late nineteenth century and played an important role in developing both the social and economic framework of Houston. The main portion of the collection is correspondence between various family members, with most written by the children and grandchildren of Charles K. Dillingham, who settled in Houston and played an integral part in the development of a predecessor bank of the Texas Commerce Bank. He, his wife Frances Cutter Dillingham, and their two children, Edwin K. and Mary Pauline, were very active socially, and the Dillingham name remains important in Houston. Originally from Vermont, some of the members of the Dillingham family remained there and contributed to the prosperity of that state. Paul Dillingham was governor of Vermont, and his son William served as a United States Senator for several years. Both the personal and business papers of these men are included in the collection.
The Collection consists of Thomas' Congressional correspondence. The collection covers 30 years of service by Thomas in the U.S. House of Representatives. Thomas made few speeches on the House floor and attached his name to only a few bills; however, his correspondence illustrates his continuing behind-the-scenes statesmanship. Included in the collection are sections on U.S. problems, legislation (including Albert Thomas bills), Texas problems, Harris County, Houston Port, Pasadena, school districts, universities, campaigns and elections, and speeches. The collection is composed of 21 document boxes containing typescript, typed copy, photocopy, documents, and photographs. The collection comprises a total of 8 linear feet.
Walter W. Fondren performed a conspicuous part in the development of the petroleum industry in Texas. The considerable wealth generated by his success in this field was later, through the agency of Ella F. Fondren and the Fondren Foundation, made available to several civic, religious, and educational organizations, predominately in Texas. The Fondren Papers, occupying approximately 7.75 linear feet, provide a record of the Fondrens's acquisition and dispersal of money during the first three-quarters of this century and offers additional information on the financial workings of several well-known institutions and corporations. The Fondren Papers comprise fourteen Hollinger boxes that include passbooks, ledgers, and other financial records. Books in a tin deed box (ca. 1890-1910) labeled with W. W. Fondren's card were reboxed but the box was retained. Constituted almost completely by correspondence and documents concerning financial matters, the collection is arranged in a single alphabet, the papers in each folder being further arranged in chronological order.
The collection, totaling nine document boxes, covers Harris Masterson, Jr.'s life from his schooling through his career with the YMCA. Highlights include correspondence with family members, photographs, school materials and his career.
The Norman Hurd Ricker Papers, composed of 24 document boxes and one Hollinger box, include the notes and papers related to Ricker's work in industrial research and his academic career. The boxes contain Ricker's autobiography, published papers, photographs depicting his experience at Rice and many of his field expeditions, as well as notes, calculations, and graphs in various media, used in his research and writing. The materials have maintained the structure in which they were received from Ricker's files.
Containing graphs, computations, and papers in typescript and Ricker's hand.
Notes for papers and lectures, seismic diagrams, correspondence and memoranda, and patents.
Predominately notes, calculations, photographic negatives of figures, and text of Ricker's book.
Containing the bound copy of Vol. 1 of The Autobiography of Norman Hurd Ricker, several photograph albums, boxes of glass slides, and scientific equipment. Note that one item in box 24 and all items in box 25 were deaccessioned in August 2009. The remaining items in box 24 were incorporated into box 23.
The Floyd Seyward Lear Papers total 8.5 linear feet of material, arranged in 17 boxes and dated from 1881 to 1975. The papers of medieval historian Dr. Floyd Seyward Lear include correspondence, departmental and university reports and memoranda, teaching materials, research notes, and a variety of memorabilia, including photographs which document his long tenure at Rice University (1925-1975) as well as the history of the University itself. Much of the material was loose and unorganized when received; material already in folders was generally kept in its original order and folder titles retained as given.
Series I. Correspondence consists of personal and academic correspondence. Of particular interest are letters from the 1940s during World War II, and from the post-war period in which Dr. Lear expresses concern over the future of the liberal arts as changes take place in the Institute's curriculum to accommodate new national priorities. Correspondence in Boxes 3 and 4 reflects Dr. Lear's activities both in the Department of History and university-wide. Book Orders (Box 4) record the establishment from 1928 of a core collection of books in medieval history, including works on Roman and Germanic law.
Series II. Lecture Notes and Examinations includes material arranged more or less chronologically to indicate curriculum changes over time. Material ranges from sets of year-long lecture notes (as in History 100) to single-item exams. Of special interest are student essays and examination answers from 1934 to 1970 (Box 7), most of which were apparently re-typed by Dr. Lear for his own files.
Series III. Addresses and Publications includes copies of addresses or lectures given by Dr. Lear and manuscripts of his published works with early notes and drafts; Box 8 also contains a list of Dr. Lear's publications and book reviews from 1929 to 1969.
Series IV. Memorabilia includes memorandum books and guest lists from dinners given by the Lears from 1927-1963, Class Record books, pamphlets, various mementos from Rice Institute (University), and Dr. Lear's yearbooks from the University of Rochester.
Series V. Oversize Material includes photographs, awards, books, and newspaper clippings.
Correspondence consists of personal and academic correspondence. Correspondence includes letters from Lear's family (brothers William and Leighton, nieces, and nephews) and former students. Correspondence from Andrew Forest Muir are also interspersed. Of particular interest are letters from the 1910s and during World War I when Lear was enlisted in the Army Air Service.
This subseries contains letters from Katherine Fischer Drew to Dr. and Mrs. Lear. The letters include both personal and professional notes from Drew. From these letters one could gather that Dr. Lear and Katherine Fischer Drew had a mentor/mentee relationship. Many are postcards or descriptions of her travels. Drew talks about her experiences as a woman in academia in the mid-twentieth century. These letters also offer insight on how World War II affected student life and on Drew's time at Cornell.
These materials document the career of William Ward Watkin, including his private architecture practice and well as his relation with Rice Institute, and touches briefly on his personal life. The material was maintained by Watkin's daughter, Ray Watkin Strange, and served as research for the book: William Ward Watkin and The Rice Institute by Patrick James Nicholson (published 1991 by Gulf Pub. Co.). Dates range from 1917-1985, and formats include correspondence, notes, clippings, interviews, brochures, sketches, typescripts, photographs.
This series includes newsclips, correspondence and published materials regarding William Ward Watkin's architectural projects.
This series includes records of William Ward Watkin's involvement with academics, specifically the Architecture Department, and athletics, campus buildings and Rice history.
This series consists of biographical information, interviews and correspondence and related materials on his family.
The collection holds the chemistry research materials during a portion of Curl's tenure at Rice University through 2012. The materials, arranged chronologically, include typescript copies, proofs, notes, charts, correspondence and reprints regarding published and unfinished research. The collection also holds various items relating to Curl's positions on a number of Non-Rice boards and committees.
Contents: Each of these files contains the agendas, minutes, membership information, financial reports, correspondence, and human rights case information from the biannual meeting of the Committee on Human Rights of the National Academy of Sciences (NAS), National Academy of Engineering (NAE), and the Institute of Medicine (IOM).
The papers of anthropologist Dr. Edward Norbeck consist of correspondence, lecture notes, article drafts. The papers range in date from 1945-1985, and occupy 1.75 linear feet.
This series consists of correspondence between Norbeck and persons from various universities regarding setting up a Social Science Research Council (SSRC) conference on the general topic of health, medicine and health policy in Japan. Other correspondence pertains to the publication of papers/articles; some of which he wrote, others for which he acted as editor. Drafts of some of the papers are included. Other correspondence pertains to "Humans at Play." The letters are in good condition.
This series includes a 1979 draft of "Work and Play." There is also a folder with course notes and syllabi mostly dealing with human play. Included in the collection are offprints of articles published in various journals. The topics range from anthropology and religion to issues about Japan. There are published lecture notes from Anthropology courses he taught at the University of California at Berkeley. Loose items include his Doctoral Dissertation, a guest register from a reception for him in 1980; a card file of sources and a 16mm film "Japan."
Scope and Contents
This collection consists of a small amount of correspondence, maps, typographical and proofreading instructions in regard to the publication of Rath's The Provisional Austrian Regime in Lombardy-Venetia, 1814-1815 and two typed drafts of the monograph.
Scope and Content
The collection consists of 3 folders of correspondence dating from 1803-1810, between British Admiral Sir John Thomas Duckworth as Naval Commander-in-Chief at Jamaica and Vice-Admiral Charles Stirling (1760-1833), Resident Commissioner at Jamaica relating to repairs to ships, stores, defenses and surveys.
The collection consists of ca. 40 handwritten letters, photographs, documents and newspaper clippings covering the time period 1850-1955. Chiefly letters to Louisa (Neumann) Bering, a resident of Houston, Tex., from her brothers and sisters, including letters from her brother, Emil Neumann, describing his service in the Confederate Army, stationed at Fort Eagle Grove (Fort Moore) and Galveston, Tex.; together with clippings and photos. Includes material relating to land in Texas, Bering family, and Little Rock, Ark., during the Civil War. The letters are in fair condition; some are faded and several are torn. They have been placed in mylar sleeves for protection.
The collection consists of correspondence, college materials, pamphlets and programs, materials related to the construction of the Sewall residence, and the Sewall's trip to Japan. The dates for this collection range from 1847 to 1959 with the bulk of the material ranging from 1935 to 1948.
26 letters arranged in chronological order beginning with the earliest and ending with the undated letters.
Copies of plats, correspondence related to the building, specifications, building contracts, transcripts of a lawsuit, drawings and photographs. Arranged in chronological order beginning with the earliest and ending with undated materials.
The Billie Carr Papers total 12 linear feet of material, arranged in 22 boxes and dated 1956-2003. Materials include correspondence, office files, photographs, and memorabilia pertaining to her liberal activist work in the Harris County Democrats, Texas Democrats, Democratic National Committee, New Democratic Coalition, and Billie Carr & Associates. Correspondents such as local and national level political figures include Bob Bullock, President Jimmy Carter, President Bill Clinton, Vice President Al Gore, Ed Cogburn, Chris Dixie, Calvin Guest, Sen. Edward Kennedy, Mickey Leland, and Robert Strauss. Subjects of correspondence range from specific political issues to brief social notes.
This subseries includes correspondence and general chronological office files.
This subseries includes formats such as brochures, political flyers, scattered correspondence, and notes.
This subseries includes formats such as brochures, political flyers, scattered correspondence, and notes.
The Ralph Anderson Collection consists of correspondence, photographs, architectural drawings, publications, memorabilia, Rice University records and World War II records. It covers a broad spectrum of Ralph Anderson's life beginning with his grade school transcripts and ending with the very poignant diary that he kept through the last year of his life. Although most of the documents relate to the personal and professional life and career of Ralph Anderson, Jr., there are also a few records pertaining to other family members.
The earliest records in the collection, 1860-1965, can be found in the Family Documents Series. They include documents of a genealogical nature, such as marriage, birth, and naturalization records. Ralph Anderson's school transcripts and a few legal "land" records belonging to Ralph Anderson, Sr. are also in this series.
This series covers the years Ralph Anderson attended Rice University both before and after World War II. Included are class notes, financial records, school transcripts, membership in Phi Beta Kappa, and drawings for homes designed and built by Ralph Anderson while a student at Rice. There are also correspondence and newspaper clippings from a news column written by Ralph Anderson while serving as Class Agent.
Material in this series spans the years Ralph Anderson served in the army during World War II, beginning with his attendance at Harvard University, where he was enrolled in an Advanced Studies Program. There is also an extensive collection of photographs taken throughout Europe during World War II. Both the American and German memorabilia will be of interest to anyone doing research into World War II history. Included are patches, ribbons, German belt buckle, pins, a German slide rule, and a Safe Conduct Pass. Ralph Anderson's helmet (with bullet hole), his Good Conduct Medal and Bronze Star are included.
Letters in the general series have been divided by correspondence received by Ralph Anderson and correspondence sent by Ralph Anderson. Chronological order has been imposed on each group. While the majority of the correspondence in the general series relates to Ralph Anderson, Jr., there are some interesting letters written to his father, Andy Anderson, Sr. from Vice President Nixon in 1953 and from President Eisenhower in 1953 and 1954.
Most of the correspondence in the family series was written by Ralph Anderson, Jr. to his parents while serving in the army during World War II.
This series covers the entire span of his career from his early work to his retirement in 1989. There are newspaper clippings and correspondence from his many years of association with Wilson, Morris, and Crain and later when the firm became Wilson, Morris, Crain and Anderson. There are also financial records, brochures, and rendering from various architectural projects. To see the architectural drawings from Ralph Anderson's career, see the list of contents in Map Drawer 2. Included in the drawings are personal dwellings, medical clinics, banks, schools, T. V. Stations and the Harris County Sports Stadium (Astrodome) built in 1965.
Ralph Anderson's professional affiliations are closely tied to his professional practice. This series contains brochures, drawings, and lectures given by Ralph Anderson. There is also some interesting correspondence relating to his association with the Texas Architects Committee, the Texas Society of Architects, and the American Institute of Architects. Of particular interest are the many letters of congratulations Ralph Anderson received when he was nominated for a "Fellowship" in the American Institute of Architects.
Personal interests of Ralph Anderson, Jr. away from the architectural drawing board can be found in the Personal series. He had an extremely wide diversity of interests that ranged from cultural, literary to civic. Included in the series are the draft and final copy of Handcar White, Battle History of the 2nd BN. 328th Infantry Regiment, WWII and other miscellaneous writings of Ralph Anderson, Jr. Correspondence relating to his association with Billboard Limited, the Shepherd Society and the Texas Educational Foundation can be found in his series. There is also an extensive collection of theatrical programs, ticket stubs, brochures and other miscellaneous items from his many trips. Material is filed chronologically by the year of each trip. Of particular interest is the diary that Ralph Anderson kept through the last year of his life.
The publications series has an interesting collection of newspaper clippings that give an excellent overall view of Ralph Anderson's social life and civic endeavors. He was interested not only in architectural aesthetics, but he was also interested in environmental aesthetics as shown by his involvement and commitment to "Billboards Limited."
The photographic series consist of pictures of Ralph Anderson taken through many phases of his life, from babyhood to adulthood. There are also pictures of Ralph Anderson, Sr. with President Dwight Eisenhower in 1953 and one taken with General Douglas McArthur.
This series contains a photograph album with pictures of the inside and the outside of the home of Ralph Anderson, Jr., a picture of the Company B, A.S.T.U., United States Army dated 1943 and a picture of the Rhea Building, Houston, 1900. There are newspapers with headlines relating to World War II. There is also a JFK Memorial Edition of Life Magazine, along with some miscellaneous brochures.
The Jack McCaine Collection consists of approximately 6.75 linear feet of newspapers, books, magazines, brochures, posters, photographs, certificates, charts, memorabilia, awards and recognitions. There is also approximately .25 linear feet in the vault. Since most of the material covers the decade of the sixties, when the Space Center was called the Manned Spacecraft Center (the name changing to the Johnson Space Center in 1973), the early name will be used throughout the collection.
This series consists of newspapers, newsletters, books, and magazines. The Roundup, later known as the Space News Roundup and the Personnel Newsletter are newspapers; published for the personnel at the Manned Spacecraft Center. Nasa Activities consist of monthly Nasa highlights and is distributed to all Nasa personnel. The Publications series is organized first according to subject and then chronologically.
Both color and black and white photographs can be found in the General Photographs series. Some of the more interesting photographs are ones taken of the exterior and interior, before and after renovation of the Lunar Planetary building, (originally the Jim West mansion,) which is adjacent to the Johnson Spacecraft Center. Also located in this series is a photograph album containing serial photos taken of the Manned Spacecraft Center during different phases of construction. The photos have been removed from the album and placed in acid free sleeves.
Public Affairs has an assortment of interesting material used generally for publicity purposes such as the Presentation Packets, and autographed photographs of the Original Seven Astronauts. The Fact Sheets consist of pertinent information on individual Gemini and Apollo flights.
An inventory list of the financial costs for construction of various buildings at the manned Spacecraft Center and a list of Corps of Engineer Contracts can be found in this series.
Some of the most interesting material in the collection can be found in the Awards and Recognition series. Jack McCaine received many awards and recognitions during his years of working on the constriction of the Manned Spacecraft Center. Among the more interesting ones are the letters received from President Richard Nixon and Frank Borman, thanking him for his contributions to the space program. A piece of the heat shield from "Auora Seven" (the Mercury flight of Scott Carpenter in May of 1962), along with some interesting medallions and group achievement awards can also be found in this series.
Items collected by Jack McCaine during the years of his association with the Manned Spacecraft Center can be found in his series. An assortment of flags representing various countries, along with a collection of patches commemorating different flights, are among the interesting items in this series.
The material in this series is a mixture of various items found in some of the other series, but which will not fit into the standard size boxes. There is also an interesting assortment of charts, such as an Apollo Earth Orbit charts, and Atlas of Mars and Skylab 4 Mission chart. Although there is a General Photograph series, photos that were generated for publicity purposes can be found in the Public Affairs series. The Oversize series was formed to hold material that will not fit into standard size archival boxes. Additional photos and memorabilia can be found in the Oversize series. Some of the oversize items have been placed in Map Case Drawer 34. These items have been listed within the appropriate series. Series & Sub Series Summary: The collection is divided into seven series, with sub-series as necessary.
The bulk of this material consists of business records of the Brown & Root firm and the Brown Shipbuilding Co., relating in particular to building projects and joint ventures with other companies as well as internal operations of the firm. Formats include correspondence, internal memos, project site drawings, photographs, reports, notes, and newsclippings. Some specific projects include various international airbases, Marshall Ford Dam, Pedernales River Electric Cooperative, City of Houston roads and water, Rice Institute, Mohole Project, and many others. Correspondents include individuals and other companies such as ARMCO Steel, Construction Management & Engineering Associates (CMEA), Harlan Inc., Pre-stressed Concrete Products, Inc., Southland Paper Mills, Inc., Texas Eastern Transmission Corp, Texas Gulf Sulphur Co., and the U.S. Navy and Dept. of Defense. Folder titles are original Brown & Root titles.
Correspondence, reports, notes, brochures, site drawings and contracts related to Brown & Root projects, proposed projects and issues such as energy and constructions resources and labor. Some specific projects include various international airbases, Marshall Ford Dam, Pedernales River Electric Cooperative, City of Houston roads and water, Rice Institute, Mohole Project, and many others. Correspondents include individuals and other companies such as ARMCO Steel, Construction Management & Engineering Associates (CMEA), Harlan Inc., Southland Paper Mills, Inc., Texas Eastern Transmission Corp, Texas Gulf Sulphur Co., and the U.S. Navy and Dept. of Defense. Folder titles are original Brown & Root titles.
George R. Brown served as chairman of the board of trustees of Rice University for fifteen years of his twenty-five years of service on the board.
Notes, correspondence, and several briefs related to Brown & Root legal claims and suits.
Carbon copies and some original items such as internal memos and external correspondence, between Brown Shipbuilding and law firms, accountants, and insurance firms, relating to the release of contracts, labor issues, and inventory.
Most of this collection, which dates from 1840 to 1878, is comprised of correspondence from Benjamin Disraeli to Rev. Clubbe. However, in addition, there are several letters from Mary Anne Disraeli to Clubbe, along with notes from Disraeli's secretaries to Clubbe, as well as family correspondence.N.B. The researcher's attention is drawn to the usage of the term 'Lady Beaconsfield' in several letters by Mary Anne Disraeli before 1876, which is the date when Benjamin Disraeli received his peerage. This inconsistency remains unsolved.
The Richard E. Smalley Papers comprise the lectures, presentations and supporting materials leading to Smalley's discovery of fullerenes, which eventually lead to his Nobel Prize. Included are lectures and presentations, conferences attended, awards received, and articles written. Copies of Dr. Smalley's actual laboratory research notes and materials are included. The papers also include personal memorabilia.
Events attended by Dr. Smalley in the capacity of moderator, panelist or other official.
Includes general correspondence, incoming and outgoing mail, awards nominations, grants, patents and publishers correspondence all dealing with fullerenes or "buckyballs."
Articles and reprints related to buckyballs and nanotechnology, with a bibliography on the discovery.
This series includes materials on awards, presentations and daily calendars.
This series contains lecture notes, problem sets,and exams for the Chemistry 102 classes Dr. Smalley taught at Rice University from 1995-1997.
Finding Aid and Container List for the Richard E. Smalley Papers held at the Chemical Heritage Foundation Archives.
Events attended by Dr. Smalley in the capacity of moderator, panelist or other official.
This series contains materials on Nanotechnology and Nanohealth projects at Rice University.
This series contains versions of articles and reprints of Dr. Smalley's publications.
This series includes papers on conferences and projects of interest to Dr. Smalley, but in which he did not serve in any official capacity.
This digital object contains photographs of Richard Smalley at events honoring his discovery of the Carbon 60 molecule and related magazine articles.
The Dick Hedges World War II Collection consisting of approximately 3.75 linear ft. of books, magazines, newspapers, clippings, photographs, photograph albums, maps, town plans, reports, writings and memorabilia, were collected by Dick Hedges while he was serving with the U. S. Army in Europe in World War II. The various intelligence reports that are part of the collection were all extra copies and were declassified at the end of World War II. The photograph albums containing pictures of Lt. Col. Otto Skorzeny and his friends were used by U. S. interrogators at the end of World War II. Some of the German books in the collection, such as "Hitler wie ihn keiner kennt," "Deutschland Erwacht," "SS Kavallerie im Osten," and "Die Malerei der Gotik und Fruh Renaissance," can possibly be found in libraries in Germany.
One of the most interesting parts of the Personal series are the writings by Dick Hedges, of his many trips through Europe at the end of World War II, both personal and as a member of Military Intelligence Service Center. Of particular interest is "The Trip to Nurnberg," which chronicles his experiences while guarding various high ranking Nazi officials and generals to Nurnberg to stand trial as war criminals. This series also contains correspondence sent to and received by Dick Hedges while he was serving his tour of duty with the U.S. Army. Memorabilia from his army days can also be found in this series.
The material covers a period from approximately 1944 - 1946. Book titles in German have been written in both German and English on the guide for clarification.
This series consists of some very interesting interrogation reports about some of Germany's most notorious war criminals. "Economics: a German View" gives an excellent over-all picture of German thought concerning their own economic situation at the end of World War II, their hopes and fears for the future. Another interesting feature to be found in this series are the German Propoganda documents.
The publication series has an excellent collections of newspaper clippings, books and magazines. The newspaper clippings includes copies of Stars and Stripes, and Apidigest, both military publications.
The material in this series consists of military and nonmilitary photographs. Some of the most interesting photos were taken while Dick Hedges visited Paris and other parts of Europe at the end of the war. Most of the photos of the Cherbourg, Omaha, and Utah beaches were taken just before the Normandy invasion in 1944. See Series I, II, III, and VIII for additional photographs.
The Topography series contains Maps, Town Plans, Guidebooks, and a War Department Technical Manual. Of special interest are the maps and townplans of Germany and England. See Series VII: Oversize for the map of Utah Beach.
The material in this series is comprised of a mixture of Books, Photograph Albums, Newspapers, Magazines and a Map of Utah Beach for the Normandy invasion. One of the most exciting books in the collection is The Artists of the Gothic and Early Renaissance, which contains excellent color reproductions of famous paintings by Dutch, French, Italian and German artists. The book is catalogued separately and the call number is ND140 .W5 1938. Information on the battle of Iwo Jima, the Normandy Invasion and the death of Adolf Hitler can be found in the Stars and Stripes, a military newspaper. Of particular interest is the photograph album containing pictures of Colonel Otto Skorzeny training with the S.S. at an Summer Training Camp in Loas, Tyrol.
The Edward Knoblock collection comprises 45 folders of correspondence received by Knoblock between the years 1904 and 1936, relating to theater in Great Britain during the early 20th century. Correspondence relates to British theater in the early 20th century. Most of Knoblock's correspondents in this collection are well-known literary figures of the day, or prominent managers and producers from the world of the theatre. Some of these are: Sir Arthur Wing Pinero (1855-1934), the English dramatist and actor; J.B. Priestley (1894- ), the Yorkshire born novelist, essayist, playwright and critic; all the members of the literary Sitwell family, especially, Edith (1887-1964), Osbert (1892-1969), and Sacheverell (1897- ); Sir Hugh Walpole (1884-1941) the New Zealand born novelist and son of the bishop of Edinburgh; Sir Charles Wyndham (1863-1913), the English actor and stage manager; David Belasco (1854-1931), the San Francisco born New York stage manager and producer; Arnold Bennett (1867-1931), the famous English novelist and dramatist of the 'Five Towns' region; Noel Coward (1899- ), the playwright, actor, and composer; English actors, Sir John Gielgud, born in 1904, and Sir Charles Hawtrey (1858-1923); statesman, and first Labour Prime Minister, Ramsey MacDonald (1866-1937); novelist, journalist, and critic, Compton MacKenzie (1883- ); and, Cyril Maude (1863-1951), the English actor, co-manager of the Haymarket theatre in London (1896-1905) and manager and builder of the Playhouse until 1915. Owing to the volume of correspondence from him contained in the collection, Sir William Nicholson (1872-1949) deserves a special mention. Nicholson was principally a portrait painter, although he also devoted time to painting figure subjects, still life and open-air studies. He was also a wood engraver and designed posters along with his brother-in-law James Pryde under the name of the Beggarshot Brothers. A series of woodcuts were published including, The Square Book of Animals (1896), and An Almanac of Twelve Sports (1898), this latter being produced in collaboration with Rudyard Kipling. Most of Nicholson's letters to Knoblock are accompanied by small illustrations of some kind, and the collection concludes with ten miscellaneous sketches by this artist.
Professional papers, manuscript notes and personal correspondence of Alan Dugald McKillop, Professor of English, Rice University. Included in the collection are: James Thomson letters (photocopies); Samuel Richardson letters (photocopies); Aaron Hill letters; typescripts of articles; reviews of McKillop's books; reviews by McKillop; offprints by McKillop, offprints of other authors (most autographed).
Baker College material, teaching and History Dept. records, academic and scholarly correspondence, notes and drafts of books, articles, and lectures, as well as a quantity of Renaissance-Reformation subject files document the faculty and scholarly activities of Charles Garside Jr. (1927-1987). These papers cover the period 1953 to 1987. This represents roughly the second half of Garside's life or, from another perspective, from about the time he began his history Ph.D. work at Yale onward. The papers bulk in the Teaching Records and Material series with Renaissance - Reformation subject files. These subject files can be further subdivided into two types: course specific subject files and non-course specific subject files. It is likely that these subject files were created for either of two needs: teaching purposes or as the result of research towards a particular book or article. It is also seems likely that if a subject file was created out of research purposes, once the book or article was published the file would be added to the rest, simply as more lecture source material. These subject files contain primarily handwritten and typed notes with some reprint material. The papers bulk again in the series Scholarly Papers with notes, drafts, and correspondence concerning the many books, articles, reviews, papers, speeches and lectures published or presented by Garside. The papers also well represent the fact that Garside was a member of numerous history and Renaissance-Reformation oriented professional organizations/scholarly societies. Garside served as President of The American Society for Reformation Research for several years and much of the material here is correspondence. The Garside papers contain very little of a personal nature. The most important material here being several folders of personal correspondence and some address books. Garside was a man of such high scholarship, so intensely devoted to teaching and university life, that if were not for original order it would be difficult to distinguish his personal correspondence from his scholarly correspondence. A few photographs, a number of recipes in a variety of handwritings and some poetry in Garside's handwriting provide some small insight into his nature and life outside the walls of academia.
These are general Reformation/Renaissance subject files apparently for use as needed and not intended for use with any specific course. These files contain primarily handwritten or typed lecture notes with some reprint material.
Material present may include some or all of the following: notes, drafts, final copies, invitations, reviews and correspondence.
Garside belonged to or worked with most of the scholarly organizations and societies relevant to his interest in the Reformation and the Renaissance. Notably: American Historical Association, Southern Historical Association, American Society for Reformation Research, American Philosophical Society, Houston Philosophical Society and the American Society of Church History. In addition to these organizations, there is correspondence and printed material present concerning institutions, such as the John Calvin Theological Seminary in Grand Rapids, Mich., which were of interest to Garside.
This series contains materials relating to the Rice Residential College System, executive papers from Garside's time as Executive Associate of Baker, Matriculation Addresses, and History Department meeting minutes.
Papers include correspondence with both state and national political figures as well as Fagan's personal and business subject files of clippings, published materials, and notes, 1950-1978. Correspondents include Dickson, James F.; Bentsen, Lloyd; Briscoe, Dolph; Buckley, William F. Jr.; Cranston, Alan; Carter, Jimmy ; Domenici, Pete V.; Dugger, Ronnie; Fullbright J.W.; Ford, Gerald; Faulk, John Henry; Johnson, Lyndon B.; Jordan, Barbara; Kissinger, Henry; McCarthy, Eugene; McGovern, George; Maverick, Maury, Jr.; Moos, Malcom; Mondale, Walter F.; Moyers, Bill; Muskie, Edmund; Nixon, Richard M.; Pickle, J.J. (Jake); Richards, Ann; Thurmond, Strom; Weddington, Sarah; and others.
Arranged alphabetically.
(includes Dickson nameplate)
These photographs taken during the Civil War reflect a wide range of battles and sites, although not all are represented. The collection includes 84 photographs mounted on 8″ × 91/2″ boards, many labelled with caption information. The photographs were taken by a variety of photographers, including Mathew B. Brady and Alexander Gardner. Whenever possible they have been identified as to artist by comparison with "The Photographic History of the Civil War" and The Mathew B. Brady Collection of Civil War Photographs cited at the end of the list. The "Photo" numbers are those which appear in pencil on the photograph itself, and the "(PHCW) Page #" reflects the page number of "The Photographic History of the Civil War" (PHCW) on which the photograph was published. Mathew B. Brady photographs are also assigned numbers by the National Archives, B-xxx, and will be so designated here. Identifications made May, 1978. Margaret R. OlveyInventory divisions follow those used in "The Photographic History of the Civil War." main stacks E468.7.M5 Identifications of Mathew B. Brady photographs made by comparison to The Mathew B. Brady Collection of Civil War Photographs microfilm, in four reels from the National Archives, Film E468.7.B8. Identifications of other photographs made by comparison to "The Photographic History of the Civil War." ed. Francis Trevelyan Miller. New York. Review of Reviews Co. 1911-12. 10 vols. reprinted in 5 vols. by T. Yoseloff, New York, 1957.
The majority of the collection is comprised of the committee's working papers related to the events comprising the inauguration of Rice University President George Rupp. The material, removed from binders, is three-hole punched and separated by subject dividers. It consists of correspondence, organizational charts, committee lists, meetings and agendas, delegate information, faculty information, programs, invitations, thanks you letters, news clippings, and other types of information they compiled during the planning of the inauguration, such as music, ushers, procession, robing, events, transportation, hotels, expenses, etc. Included are official copies of programs, delegate packets and proceedings. Cassette tapes made of the ceremony and inaugural dinner are included as well as one Macintosh Multiplan Disc. An addendum was received from the Office of University Relations containing the inauguration files from the Director of Public Relations, Brent Breedin. Most of the files were duplicates but some items were added to the committee's papers with a notation of origin. Brent Breedin's files also contained some working materials from his office and they were added to the collection in a separate folder in the Public Relations section (Box 3).
The collection documents the regular business of Rice University's Harry Clay Hanszen College. Formats include Cabinet meeting minutes, correspondence, news clippings, publications, handbooks, videos, brochures and theatrical events programs.
It is an extensive collection of college documents, publications, minutes, including constitution and by-laws, as well as correspondence files, news clippings and theatrical information and social activities created and maintained by residents of Will Rice College. Dates range from 1957-2013.
The Margarett Root Brown records consist of 20.5 linear feet. Files included here pertain to activities, correspondence, newsclippings, obituaries, minutes, freshman materials, publications, governmental and budget documents as well as other information relating to the general operation of the college. There are also files on the Brown students such as lists of members and room assignments. In addition, there are many scrapbooks and slides.
The Houston Philosophical Society Records consist of minutes from the Executive Committee and general meetings, notices to members, treasurer's reports and other financial records, rosters and directories, new member nominations, constitutions and procedure guidelines. There is one roll of microfilm minutes for 1964-May 1974. One binder belonging to President W. T. Cannady, 1998-99 is included. These documents are divided in to 7 series as identified below. Until April 2000, the documents were filed by subject, i. e., Minutes, Notices, Treasurer's Report, etc. in chronological order. Beginning April 2000 the documents are kept together by meeting number and date. A new series was started at that point.
Contains Notices, for both the Executive and business meetings. Some attachments to these notices may include new member nominations. Also filed here are correspondence files and meeting reservations.
Contains membership rosters, directories and handbooks, change forms and membership nominations/ supporting letters.
Contains bills and financial records, various financial journals and Treasurer's reports. There is a personal file from Treasurer Fraser A. McAlpine.
Contains governing documents, such as the Society Constitution and procedure guidelines. There is also a copy of the Philosophical Society of Texas Constitution.
Contains copy of binder belonging to President W. T. Cannady, 1998-99.
Contains minutes of the Executive Committee meetings as well as the business meetings, going back to 1920. Some of the minutes are bound into journals. There are some summaries of the speakers' addresses with the business meeting minutes.
Contains minutes of the Executive Committee meetings as well as the business meetings, going back to 1920. Includes Minutes, Executive Committee, Notices, Treasurer's Reports, etc. Some of the minutes are bound into journals. There are some summaries of the speakers' addresses with the business meeting minutes.
The collection contains Jones College business material and ephemera such as college cabinet meeting minutes, publications, news clippings, and other college documents, such as telephone lists, invitations, freshman information, etc.
JPG images representing student events at Jones College. Images created by the Jones College Historians.
Includes a variety of prints, plus circa 250 color slides from 1997 O-Week Scavenger Hunt, Skits, Brunch and Fashion Show, Stadium Rally, and Matriculation.
PNG images of David Leebron. Created by the Jones College SA Senator.
The collection includes college rosters, correspondence files, handbooks, diet minutes, committee records, fellows records, roommate questionnaires and more created and maintained by masters of Will Rice College. Dates range from 1956-2006.
The collection includes cabinet meeting minutes, reports such as budget and annual reports, news clippings, correspondence, Baker Books, college publications, programs, photographs, video, and theatrical material as well as other college files on O-Week, freshman week and more.
pdf scans of Baker Books and O-Week books.
Contents include: pdf scans of Baker College documents including Baker Book and O-Week documents, constitutions and procedures, correspondence, minutes, and Vitis.
Contents include: Jpgs of the performance.
Contents include: mp4 files of performance.
Contents include: mp4 files of performance.
Contents include: mp4 files of performance.
Contents include: mp4 files of performance.
Henry IV (1), Love's Labour Lost (1), The Country Wife (1), Unidentified(1), Much Ado About Nothing (8), Baker Feast (5), Romeo and Juliet (1), Midsummer Night's Dream (2), Macbeth - 1982 (6), Macbeth - 1991 (7), Twelfth Night (1)
White dress with red swirls was costume for Helena.
Green dress and black cloak were costume for Goneril.
The collection consists of two 0.25 ft. boxes. It includes the RDA Charter, a history and other related materials, such as membership brochures, grants, news clippings and press releases. These are numerous brochures for tours, exhibits and film presentations and lectures as well as invitations to galas.
General Horatio Wright's letter of February 12, 1865, written probably while the VI Corps was on the front lines at the siege of Richmond, consists of four pages written on one folded sheet of stationery with the letterhead "Headquarters Sixth Army Corps." In the letter, Wright seeks to clarify an apparent misunderstanding with the recipient ("My dear Col"[onel?] ) and discusses family news from a recent leave of absence; he then notes current movements of troops, and expresses admiration for a soldier named McClellan and hopes that McClellan will soon receive a promotion.
General Horatio Wright's letter of February 12, 1865, written probably while the VI Corps was on the front lines at the siege of Richmond, consists of four pages written on one folded sheet of stationery with the letterhead "Headquarters Sixth Army Corps." In the letter, Wright seeks to clarify an apparent misunderstanding with the recipient ("My dear Col"[onel?] and discusses family news from a recent leave of absence; he then notes current movements of troops, and expresses admiration for a soldier named McClellan and hopes that McClellan will soon receive a promotion.
This collection consists of two items: a Civil War pass to and from Baltimore "by steam, free of charge," signed by John A. Dix, dated August 19, 1862, and written on stationery with the letterhead "Head Quarters Seventh Army Corps, Fort Monroe, Va."; and a personal letter dated December 1, 1869 (evidently written in New York City) to "My dear Colonel," in which Dix comments on recent activities, discusses a recent land purchase and investment opportunity, and expresses the hope that his friend will soon visit him.
The logbook kept by Charles LeStrange, R. N., of H.M.S. Princess Royal, a warship of the British Royal Navy, records activities of the vessel from March 11, 1864, to December 9, 1866, while enroute from Plymouth to Shanghai and Yokohama. Entries include daily notations of the ship's position, ships passed, wind, weather, bearing and distance, and shipboard activities such as daily crew chores, announcement of punishments, drills conducted, vessels passed, crew illness and deaths at sea, and other happenings onboard and in port during their numerous stops.
The six Union Army generals' letters, dated January 28th through March 12th 1864, and written in reply to requests from Mrs. E. H. Wright for photographs of themselves, are cordial and elegant (and sometimes humorous) in expression. All but one were written from Washington or the surrounding District of Columbia, with three written and signed by the generals themselves and three written by others on the generals' behalf; four of the generals sent photographs but two expressed regrets that they had none to send.
This collection is comprised of comprises the materials Waldo Greene, a student of Thornton Wilder's, gathered about Wilder during Wilder's lifetime and up until Greene's death. Included among these materials are correspondence, bibliographies, newspaper and journal clippings, photographs, playbills, and copies of Wilder's typewritten journals.
The Correspondence includes handwritten and photocopied letters to various people from Wilder. Also included in this series is correspondence from Waldo Greene to various people regarding Wilder, his whereabouts at certain times, or asking for explanations about correspondents. There are letters between Greene and manuscript dealers regarding Wilder materials for sale. Finally there are letters from Isabel Wilder about her brother, about Greene's collecting of Wilder memorabilia, and personal notes about the friendship that was formed between the Wilders and the Greenes.
The Writings series consists of playbills of many of Wilder's plays, copies of several of the plays including one in Arabic, several articles written by Wilder and typescript copies of Wilder's journal.
The Clippings series consists of clippings that Greene collected during Wilder's life and after his death. Topics range from publication of new work, to openings of plays, to events in Wilder's life.
Written in 1837 from Houston, Forrest writes at length to his wife about Houston, and the illness of their son; discusses the possible outbreak of war with Mexico; talks of the Texas Congress meeting. This four-page letter gives an early look at life in the Republic of Texas.
4 pg. letter, torn in portions of fold.
Scope and Contents
This anonymous letter, written December 18, 1864, by an inmate of Libby Prison in Richmond, Virginia and addressed to United States Senator William Wright of New Jersey, is an urgent plea for the senator's intercession in obtaining the inmate's exchange for a Confederate officer imprisoned for an unknown offence in West Virginia and for whom he himself is being held hostage, and his release from prison. The writer describes his failing health after several months as a general prisoner of war followed by the deprivations of close confinement, and his fears that without release he will not survive; he closes 'With Great Respect,' but his signature is missing from the torn lower edge of the page.
This anonymous letter, written December 18, 1864, by an inmate of Libby Prison in Richmond, Virginia and addressed to United States Senator William Wright of New Jersey, is an urgent plea for the senator's intercession in obtaining the inmate's exchange for a Confederate officer imprisoned for an unknown offence in West Virginia and for whom he himself is being held hostage, and his release from prison. The writer describes his failing health after several months as a general prisoner of war followed by the deprivations of close confinement, and his fears that without release he will not survive; he closes 'With Great Respect,' but his signature is missing from the torn lower edge of the page.
Scope and Contents
The two Civil War journals of Samuel Storrow in this collection are unbound photocopies of the originals (which were retained by the donors). The first photocopied journal totals 38 pages copied from a small pocket notebook whose facing pages together measure 4"x 5", with entries dating January 31 to April 22, 1863 while Storrow was serving as a corporal in the 44th Regiment of the Massachusetts Volunteer Militia. The second journal totals 89 pages copied from a ledger whose pages measure 4¼" x 7¼", with entries dating from September 26, 1864 to February 26, 1865, during which time Storrow was assigned to the 2nd Regiment of the Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, where he was promoted to 1st lieutenant. Storrow's journal entries give detailed descriptions of troop and equipment movements, military actions and injuries, terrain, weather, and camp life.
The John C. Crosby Diary (1861-62, 1865-68) consists of 59 pages of ledger paper measuring 3" x 5" written on both sides in pencil and ink and encased in a leather binding. Crosby's entries record his experiences (evidently as a hospital orderly) while serving during the United States Civil War from August 1861 to August 1862 in the Seventh Maine Regiment. His entries record activities primarily while he was in Georgia, where he notes heavy battle around Savannah and the capture of Fort Pulaski in November 1861. He notes diseases treated (small pox and typhoid fever among others), deaths, and everyday hospital routine (including an incident of 'head check and washing and killing lice'). The last portion of the diary (1865-68) records Crosby's activities and personal finances as a hired farm worker after returning to civilian life ('6 Days Moving House and Barn - $9.00,' '1 Day Chopin wood - $1.00').
The papers in this collection are office records from the President's Office covering three administrations – Norman Hackerman, George Rupp and Malcolm Gillis. They are a combination of documents to and from Carl MacDowell as Assistant to the President, and in some cases the documents appear to be those directed to the acting president. Many of the later documents appeared to be those directed to Malcolm Gillis. Some of the documents preceding 1976 when MacDowell began as Assistant to the President, appear to be long-term records of agreements, contracts or financial documents retained in the president's office during several administrations. The majority of the records are paper documents made up of correspondence, news clippings, contracts, speeches, reports, minutes, financial documents, and other types of documents used in conducting the business of the President's Office. There are also a few photographs, a computer disc, cassettes and a March of Dimes plaque. In Series II On Campus-General, the files are divided into groups by administrative offices, i. e. Admissions, President, VP of Finance and Administration, etc. In some cases the titles of the offices changed over the years. References are noted where possible. The MIT Faculty Salary surveys were not transferred as part of this collection.
Folders are arranged alphabetically by name of department. Contents of the folders are mostly in original order and the dates that are covered are noted on the folder. One box of legal size (oversize) material is noted. Subseries IA – Departmental Annual Reports, 1989 – 1995, 3.75 cubic feet, Boxes 26 – 33. The annual reports in this series were removed from binders (probably from Neal Lane, Provost). They are filed by years and then alphabetically by department. Other annual reports can be found in Series I and in the Series II On Campus-General files under the Dean of the Department's correspondence.
The material in this series is subdivided alphabetically, by title, into administrative offices. The folders within each heading were then also filed in alphabetical order. Original order was maintained so there may be overlapping of dates on some folders. One box of cassettes was added at the end of Provost Section. One box of legal size (oversize) material is at the end of the VP for Finance and Administration. The material in the section named "Committees – Meeting Binders" may have come from Neal Lane, Provost. The material was removed from the binders and included in this section of the President's Office records. The documents are filed the way they were in the binder – by date and then by Committee name. There are some folders relating to the Task Force on Institutional Policy Review that are marked DESTROY IN 2005 under the President's Section, Box 81.
This series is arranged alphabetically by title of off campus organizations and other groups that were not an immediate part of Rice University. There are also Miscellaneous files located here that are filed by alphabetical letter, i.e., A Miscellaneous, B Miscellaneous, etc.
The material is this section is made up of photocopies of correspondence generated from the President's Office. (Rupp – January 1992 to June 1993; Gillis – July 1993 to 2000). Most of the correspondence was for the President's signature, but there is some correspondence by Carl MacDowell and some by the president's assistant. The material is filed by year and each year is divided into months. The March 1999 file was not included, but the March 2000 was. As of June 2004, there are no other 2000 files.
These records reflect the business conducted in the offices of Rice University Provost, (Acting) President, and Chancellor during Dr. Croneis' tenure in those positions, 1954-1970. Materials include correspondence, reports, and newsclippings pertaining to a wide variety of university activities. Records are arranged alphabetically according to folder titles assigned in the respective offices from which they came.
The collection consists of the history of Beer-Bike, the race rules, resolution, reports, realia, and financial lists as well as some programs. The largest part of the collection is made up of articles published in various campus publications such as the "Thresher," "Rice News," the "Sallyport," and other news sources.
Donated by Tom Perrault.
The collection consists of 22 boxes of Provost's Office records dating from physicist Dr. Neal Lane's tenure (1986-93). They reveal the daily business of the Provost's Office, which has the overall responsibility for the institution's educational and research programs. The Provost's Office is home to many interdepartmental initiatives and institutes, which fosters collaboration and innovative partnerships among faculty across disciplinary lines. These files share a similar file structure as that of the President's Office records. The On Campus files (Series I and II) contain correspondence and documents pertaining to the academic and non-academic departments of the university such as the library, continuing studies, graduate office as well as correspondence relating to computing and ICSA. Also included are files relating to the Space Facilities Planning Board, Office of Sponsored Research, as well as faculty teaching evaluations and files from various campus organizations. Off Campus files (Series III) relate to university relationships with non-Rice groups and organizations.
These files contain correspondence and documents pertaining to the academic and non-academic departments of the university such as the library, continuing studies, graduate office as well as correspondence relating to computing and ICSA. Also included are files relating to the Space Facilities Planning Board, Office of Sponsored Research, as well as faculty teaching evaluations and files from various campus organizations.
These files contain correspondence and documents that passed between the provost and the university academic departments and their deans.
These records contain correspondence and documents which passed between the provost and off campus groups and institutions. Foundation grant proposals, as well as correspondence with other universities, are found here.
Confidential / legal personnel files in sealed boxes labeled only with individual's names. These can only be used with the permission of the President.
The collection consists of 15 boxes of records from the provost's office during Dr. Gordon's tenure (1980-85). Series I contains the On Campus-General files. They contain correspondence and documents pertaining to the non-academic departments of the university. The material includes budget information, computer/computing at Rice, including ICSA files, Fondren Library correspondence, promotion and teaching evaluations, space allocations and other files on non-academic departments such as Rice University Studies, Jefferson Davis and various other office files. Series II contains the On Campus Academic files. They contain correspondence and documents that passed between the provost and the university academic departments.
These records reflect the daily business of the Provost's office under interim Provost James Kinsey and Provost David Auston (1993-). They reveal the daily business of the Provost's Office, which has the overall responsibility for the institution's educational and research programs. These files were previously intermingled with the files of the preceeding provost, Neal Lane. The files contain correspondence with the academic and non-academic departments.
The American Association of University Professors: Rice University chapter collection consists of folders containing meeting minutes, correspondence, membership rosters, newsletters and other documents representing the regular business of the Rice University chapter. Specific issues covered in the collection are academic freedom and freedom of the press at Rice University.
Folders contain meeting minutes, correspondence, membership rosters, newsletters and other documents representing the regular business of the chapter. Arranged in chronological order.
Folders contain meeting minutes, correspondence, membership rosters, newsletters and other documents representing the regular business of the chapter. Arranged in chronological order.
Folders contain meeting minutes, correspondence, membership rosters, newsletters and other documents representing the regular business of the chapter. Arranged in chronological order.
Folders contain meeting minutes, correspondence, membership rosters, newsletters and other documents representing the regular business of the chapter. Arranged in chronological order.
The Marguerite Johnston Barnes Personal Papers represent Barnes' writing career, from her college years to her career at the Houston Post newspaper and a small amount of biographical family materials, calendars, financial records, and photographs. The bulk of the materials represent her writing career, from her book A Happy Wordly Abode, to her newspaper work for Birmingham, AL newspapers to the Houston Post (later purchased by the Houston Chronicle). Newspaper materials include notes relating ideas for news stories, photocopies of her articles, columns, reviews and editorials, typescripts of her works. For papers related to Barnes' Houston, The Unknown City, 1830-1991, see Marguerite Johnston Barnes Research Materials for Houston, The Unknown City, 1830-1991, MS 455, Woodson Research Center.
Materials include biographical information on and photographs of Barnes, family ledgers, trip information.
Included are materials from the book, A Happy Wordly Abode, Birmingham, AL newspaper articles and columns, The Houston Post articles, reviews, editorials and columns, book collaboration, story/column ideas, proposals, and typescripts.
Included are photos for related stories (mostly travel-related).
Family correspondence, scrapbooks, and clippings of the Baker Family, from Captain James A. Baker (appointed Chairman of the Board, Rice Institute, 1891) through attorney James A. Baker, III (Rice Board of Trustees, Trustee Emeretus, 1993 - present). A small portion of the materials relate to the Baker, Botts, Garwood & Parker law firm (later known as Baker Botts law firm).
Correspondence from Capt. James A. Baker (Rice Institute Chairman, 1891-1941) to various family members and colleagues, newsclippings regarding William M. Rice and regarding Capt. Baker's death, and photographs of the Baker family.
Paul Cooper's papers document his professional career as a composer, music critic, author and teacher, at Rice University, University of Michigan, and University of Cincinnati. Formats include correspondence, compositions, course notes and outlines, photographs, notes, performance, programs, and sound recordings; dates range from 1943-1995.
Judge Masterson's papers relate almost exclusively to his legal practice and real estate dealings after he moved from Brazoria County, Texas, to Houston, dating from 1860-1942, bulk 1880-1920. He dealt primarily with land litigation and investments in Harris and surrounding counties, including Brazoria, Fort Bend, Galveston, Hardin, and Jefferson Counties. Other investments for which there are records in these papers include coal mines in West Texas, local railroads, sugar crops, cattle and ranching. Business cycles and the style of land and oil deals of the day are presented very well in the correspondence. Family correspondence also reveals Masterson's willingness to employ his own numerous nephews and generally to help people in his employ. The papers dating from Judge Masterson's death in July 1900 were created or maintained by Masterson's son Neill.
Bank statements, correspondence, check stubs, receipts, arranged by bank name and then chronologically.
Financial records, legal documents, and correspondence related to specific companies and businesses which appear in alphabetical order by the name of the business.
Correspondence with various businesses and colleagues, including son Neill and son-in-law Elliott Cage.
Legal documents, notes, correspondence related to cases dating from 1871-1920.
Arranged in order beginning with County and District Court Records, then by County Court, and lastly by District Court. Within each grouping, records are arranged alphabetically by case name, and include deeds, agreements, promissory notes, and more.
The collection consists of correspondence and land documents related to the personal, business and legal correspondence of the Groce family of Texas and 2 letters regarding the possible donation of an historic letter. Topics include family matters, plantation conditions, legal concerns and land dealings. Most of the letters were written in Texas and are to and from Jared Ellison Groce, Sr. and his sons, Jared, Jr. and Leonard Waller Groce. Highlights include an official transcript of the land grant from Estevan F. Austin and the Baron de Bastrop to Jared E. Groce; a letter from Henry Smith, Provisional Governor of Texas, relating his dealings with his Council; and a letter from John A. Wharton regarding the capture of the "Independence" off Velasco.
The U.S. Civil War Company records of the 6th Regiment Kentucky Infantry consist of General Orders; descriptive rolls of the regiments's commissioned and non-commissioned officers; a register of men discharged and why; a register of death (of what if illness; where and how if battle); a register of deserters; and a descriptive roll of the regiment with physical and vital information. There are also Morning Reports which describe which man had what type of duty and in some cases gives detailed reports of troop movement and skirmishes, and Muster Rolls and returns.
The Thomas Lindsey Blayney Papers, dating from 1893 to 2004, include an autobiographical letter written by Blayney to his sons, from which much information may be obtained about Blayney's academic and community activities and his military service during World War I. Of special interest also are photographs of Blayney during his service in World War I, the Croix de Guerre medal awarded to him by the French, and the numerous newspaper clippings concerning his academic activities as a faculty member at the Rice Institute (1912-1924) and his role in the expanding cultural life of Houston during this period.
This collection contains three letters on official letterhead: two from Governor Allred of Texas to Emil Hurja of the Democratic National Committee in Washington D.C. (1935-36), and one from Gov. Ross of Texas to General M. Cist of Cincinnati, Ohio (1889). Subjects include thanks for gifts sent and requests for reading materials, and do not relate specifically to Texas politics.
Woodson's business diaries describe his daily business as the chief operating officer of American General, an insurance company founded by Gus Wortham. The diaries range in date from 1954-1979 and describe the growth of this originally small company into one of the largest insurance companies in the world, being traded on the NYSE and possessing more than $5 billion in assets. Woodson's original entries were dictated to a tape recorder after Woodson's meetings, then transcribed by his secretary and bound. Diaries for 1977 and 1978 v.1 are not present in this collection. Subjects include daily business schedule, meeting notes, decisions large and small, travel schedules, interactions with staff, and many more details which come together to tell the story of Woodson's role in the dramatic growth of American General.
Diaries for 1977 and 1978 v.1 are not present in this collection.
Scope and Contents
The collection consists of eight letters written to Sir George Parker, Esquire, from John Jervis, Admiral Lord St. Vincent. All letters refer to personal business and financial affairs.
The papers include investigative reports, correspondence, and ship and crew information in relation to the grounding of the S.S. Schroon while helping the S.S. West Hematite. Of particular note is the typescript of the hearing in New Orleans between representatives of the National Organization of Masters, Mates and Pilots of America and representatives of steamship companies to determine "a definition of what constitutes an arrival, departure, sailing or shifting of ship."
The letter is dated April 4, 1702, is handwritten on both sides of one leaf, and features a small red wax seal. Churchill expresses his happiness that Bathurst plans to attend the upcoming coronation of Queen Anne, and sends regards on behalf of Baron Horatio Walpole.
Land deeds and agreements relating to the tract of land in Harris County granted to John Reinermann, dating from 1857-1888. Other families invovled in the land ownership include the Bethje, Brunner, Quensell, and Roy families.
Legal documents and correspondence related to the Jose de Escandon expedition of the Gulf Coast (1765-1766) and the establishment of missions in the Seno Mexicano, and U.S. Civil War and Reconstruction documents, as well as other documents related to Texas and American history.
This certificate is comprised of 2 leaves and documents the legal basis for the partnership.
This group of typescripts documents the translation of Ferenc Nagy's "The Struggle Behind the Iron Curtain," translated by Stephen K. Swift and published by MacMillan (New York) in 1948. Included in the collection are: the final original Hungarian manuscript; work schedule, a preliminary version and final typescript version of the translation. "The Struggle Behind the Iron Curtain" is a significant political and historical narrative. The collection is also an example of the steps involved in translation. The collection should be of interest to students and others interested in languages, techniques of translation, and Central European History.
Professional and personal papers of chemist Dr. Norman Hackerman, the fourth president of Rice University (1970 - 1985), including correspondence, notes for speaking engagements, mainly concerning his membership in the National Science Foundation, National Science Board, and trips to Antarctica. NOTE: Appointment books and itineraries, which contain a mixture of Rice-related and non-Rice-related entries, have been transferred to the Hackerman Presidential Papers (Boxes 125-128).
Correspondence between Sir Julian Huxley and Sir Kenneth Clark, including letters between their wives Lady Juliette Huxley and Lady Jane Clark, from 1935-1975. Topics include art and artists, African art, British candidates for the Nobel Prize, financing for films of animals, the Zoological Society of London, World War II government projects, Clark's television series, and personal letters.
The digital object linked to this series contains tiff images of some of the Clark-Huxley correspondence.
Photographs featured in the Rice University alumni magazine, the Sallyport, 1987-2003.
Photographs and negatives include: David Scott, John Boles, Beer Bike, Regina Cavanaugh, and Sanford Higginbotham.
Photographs and negatives include: Move-in, matriculation, O-Week, Michael Heizer Public Art, Craig Anderson, Rebecca Darrer, Susan Baker, and football.
Photographs and negatives include: Tom Senning, Houston Children's Museum, Rice Outreach Day, basketball, Scott Thompson, Stephen Sain, Amber Wong, George Sun, and Charlotte Sun.
Scope and Content
Family correspondence, photographs, travel and community involvement records, business information, newsclippings, academic realia and genealogies for the Edgar Odell Lovett family and related families such as the Hale and Wicks families. In addition to providing detailed family history, this material documents the close administrative and philanthropic relationship of the Lovetts and others primarily to Rice Institute, and to a lesser degree the Art League of Houston and the Houston Museum of Fine Arts. Extensive family correspondence and photographs form over half of the collection. Three boxes of postcards, photographs, guidebooks and more related to the World Tour (1908-1909) taken by E.O. and Mary Lovett to gather ideas for the formation of Rice Institute are also of particular interest.
Documents related to the planning and execution of the symposium titled "Julian Huxley, Biologist and Statesman of Science" and was held September 25-27,1987 at Rice University. Formats include correspondence, grants proposals, publicity materials, photographs, and audiotapes and transcripts of symposium presentations.
"Studies in English Literature 1500-1900" is a quarterly journal of historical and critical studies that is based at Rice University. The record group contains correspondence between authors/reviewers and the editors; some original typescripts and galley proofs; correspondence on rejected articles.
Original typed drafts of articles included in the correspondence folders within this series.
1977 and 1986 missing.
The academic papers of Chemistry Professor and Dean of Advanced Studies and Research John L. Margrave reflect the daily business of his career at Rice University, and his involvement with Gulf Universities Research Consortium (GURC), Houston Area Research Center (HARC), High Temperature Science, and Marchem, Incorporated. See detailed descriptions at the begining of each of the 13 series. List of abbreviations used: AAAS – American Association for the Advancement of Science; AAU – Association of American Universities; AAUP – American Association of University Professors; ACS- American Chemical Society; AEC – Atomic Energy Commission; AFOSR – Air Force Office of Scientific Research; AFWL – Air Force Weapons Laboratory; AIEC – Association of Independent Engineering Colleges; ANROTCCU – Association of NROTC Colleges and Universities; ARCS – Achievement Rewards for College Scientists; AROD – Army Research Office – Durham; ARPA – Advanced Research Projects Agency (Associated with MRC); ASLE – American Society of Lubricating Engineers; ASMS – American Society for Mass Spectrometry; AWU – Associated Western Universities; BDM – The BDM Corporation; CBTCUS – Coordinating Board, Texas College and University; System CCR – Council for Chemical Research (See also U/ITT); CDR – Critical Design Review (DARPA/AFWL); CGS – Council of Graduate Schools; CODAN – Committee on Data Needs; CRR – Chemistry Research Resource Program; CRSSR – Chemical Retaliatory Stockpile Status Review; DARPA – Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency; DOE – Department of Energy; DOT – Department of Transportation; DTST – Defense Technologies Study Team; ERDA – Energy Research and Development Administration; EREF – Energy Research and Education Foundation; ESCA – Electron Spectrometer for Chemical Analysis; GURC – Gulf Universities Research Consortium; HARC – Houston Area Research Center; HEW – Health, Education, and Welfare Department; HGAC – Houston-Galveston Area Council; HTS – High Temperature Science; ICSA – Institute for Computer Services and Applications; IIE – Institute of International Education; LCMMD – Laser Countermeasure Materials Development and Technology; NAS – National Academy of Sciences; NASA – National Aeronautic and Space Administration; NBS – National Bureau of Standards (U.S. Department of Commerce); NCURA – National Council for University Research Administrators; NIH – National Institutes of Health; NRC – National Research Council; NRL – Naval Research Lab; NSERC – National Solar Energy Research Consortium; NSF – National Science Foundation; ONR – Office of Naval Research; ORAU – Oak Ridge Associated Universities (Associated with Oak Ridge National Laboratory); ORNL – Oak Ridge National Laboratory; REDDI – Rice Engineering Design and Development Institute; SERI – Solar Energy Research Institute; SREB – Southern Regional Education Board; STAMPS – Scientific Technological Aspects of Materials Processing in Space (under the NRC); STTF – Solar Thermal Test Facilities; TAS – Texas Academy of Sciences; URA – Universities Research Association; USARO – U.S. Army Research Office; USRA – Universities Space Research Association; UTRC – United Technologies Research Center)
The series Chemistry Department/Norma Komplin T.A. Papers contains material related to the Rice University Chemistry Department, including correspondence; postdoctoral applications; course syllabi; student papers, exams, lists, and grades. Also included are the papers of Margrave's teaching assistant, Norma Komplin. These consist of her writings, course materials, and chemical test results.
The Correspondence series comprises the general correspondence to and from the various organizations and associations with which Margrave was involved, as well as letters of recommendation for Margrave's former students, and letters to and from specific individuals, businesses, and organizations such as the American Chemical Society, Houston attorneys Baker & Botts, and the General Electric Corporation.
Within the Gulf Universities and Research Consortium (GURC) series are the articles of incorporation and bylaws; board of directors and executive committee agendas, minutes, and correspondence; proposals; reports; and general correspondence. Researchers are also encouraged to look in Series IX: Research Group (Boxes 29 and 30) and Series XI: Rice, General Correspondence (Boxes 36 and 37) for other letters of recommendation.
The series Houston Area Research Center (HARC) contains papers related to board of directors and executive committee meetings. It also includes articles of incorporation, and bylaws, as well as meeting files, general correspondence, proposals, and reports.
The High Temperature Science (HTS) series is comprised of the papers connected with Margrave's editorship of this scientific journal. Included are the internal paperwork between Margrave and the periodical's contributors, as well as those between Margrave and the two publishing houses, Academic Press and Humana Press. Also included in this series are general correspondence, answers to a questionnaire Margrave developed in connection with the near demise of the journal, and a special tribute written about Margrave by Paul Gilles of the University of Kansas. Since the papers generated by Margrave within this series overlap in time, researchers are encouraged to look in folders that lie on either side of the year in which they are interested (that is, if you are interested in a date early in 1974, you should look in the latter part of the 1973 folder as well).
Within the Marchem, Incorporated series are consulting files, an account register, and a checkbook. In addition, the series includes correspondence, consulting agreements, and fluorination books that show, in detail, testing methodologies and results.
This series contains materials related to the many conferences and assemblies that Margrave attended in connection with his membership in associations, institutions, and organizations. Included are meeting agendas, minutes, programs, paper abstracts, as well as correspondence related to his many visiting chemistry lectures. Of particular note are two files related to Margrave's service on the 1980 presidential search committee for Texas Southern University.
Within the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) series is information related to a materials research grant Margrave had from 1971 through 1978, as well as information connected with the Space Shuttle and space science.
The Research Group series includes files associated with the individuals involved in research with Margrave. They include not only members of the Rice Chemistry Department, but also those individuals outside of the university with whom Margrave was involved. Researchers are also encouraged to look in Series II: Correspondence (Boxes 2 and 3) and Series XI: Rice, General Correspondence (Boxes 36 and 37) for other letters of recommendation.
The series Reviews/Proposals contains records related to reviews Margrave wrote and proposals Margrave conducted. This includes manuscript reviews Margrave did for journals other than High Temperature Science, and research proposals he submitted to entities such as the Department of Energy, the National Science Foundation, and the Welch Foundation.
Researchers are also encouraged to look in Series II: Correspondence (Boxes 2 and 3) and Series IX: Research Group (Boxes 29 and 30) for other letters of recommendation.
Within the series Subject Files are materials of a miscellaneous nature that did not fit into any other series category. This includes abstracts by persons other than Margrave; correspondence, minutes, reports, publications, and newsletters of organizations like the American Chemical Society and the National Academy of Sciences; JANAF tables for 1976-1978; and documents related to the various patents granted to Margrave. Researchers should note that a majority of the material in this series is not dated.
This series is made up of Margrave's publications and written papers from 1952 through 1995. Some of these are undated. A complete listing of title is available in the WRC's collection control folder.
The Mrs. Mary J. Bobo Confederate Scrapbook contains pasted newspaper clippings on some of the history and battles of the U.S. Civil War, clippings primarily from the Nashville (Tenn.) Banner. Principally, the battles at Murphreesboro and Chickamauga are noted. The scrapbook also has death notices of ordinary Civil War soldiers, particularly those from Tennessee, as well as more famous Confederates like Colonel William Campbell Preston Breckinridge. In addition, it holds reprints of Civil War and post-Civil War poetry and songs. Some clippings pay tribute to the Confederacy's most well known generals like Stonewall Jackson and Robert E. Lee. Articles related to Confederate veterans' reunions and the United Daughters of the Confederacy are also found in the scrapbook. Some of the more interesting articles include "Why Booth Shot Lincoln: Some Unwritten History" (on the third leaf) and a serialized autobiography by former lieutenant colonel and commander of the 25th Alabama Calvary Battalion Milus E. Johnston entitled "The Sword of the 'Bushwacker' Johnston" (on leaves 5-23). On the back paste-down endpaper of the scrapbook are two old, faded photographs of Mary J. Bobo.
The Jacob "Jake" Henry Hess, Jr. papers consist of notebooks, newsclippings, awards, certificates, programs, school documents and photographs and span the years 1929 to 1932. They reflect his football, basketball, and tennis careers, both before and after his days as a student and star athlete at Rice Institute.
Drawings by Hess within the architecture notebooks consist of structures designed by famous Renaissance artists in Florence, Italy, as well as ancient structures like the Giza pyramids and Mycenaean Gate of Lions.
The four bound manuscript volumes (measuring 15" x 17") contain descriptive rolls that record the status of soldiers serving in the following Missouri regiments of the Union Army as of 1863: Missouri Infantry Volunteers, Missouri Cavalry Volunteers, and Missouri Infantry and Cavalry Militia. Ledger headings include name; rank; age; physical description; marital status; occupation; place of birth and place of residence at time of enlistment; date of enlistment; when, where and by whom mustered into service; remarks concerning present status of individual, whether mustered out, killed or died, discharged (including for disability), or deserted; and notes concerning promotions or transfers.
This collection contains correspondence, memos, budgeting and accounting records, and other materials associated with the operation of the Fine Arts Department of Rice University from 1960-1969. The bulk of the material is from 1965 to 1968. Additional records include materials associated with the operation and promotion of the Allen Center gallery. Most of the papers are from the years when John O'Neil was active in the department. Some early papers are from Bill Lacy, associate chairman, and William Caudill, chairman of the Architecture Department. This collection offers a look at how Rice University created the Fine Arts Department that eventually led Dominique and John de Menil to transfer their patronage from the University of St. Thomas to Rice in 1969.
Included are budget and accounting papers, University policy memos, faculty travel and flood insurance correspondence and claims generated from a flood in the basement of Fondren Library on May 13, 1966 that damaged artwork from applicants for a faculty position. Some salary information for faculty may be found in the budget files. Budget for library purchases is in this series.
Series II contains correspondence and in a few cases, minutes, from various on and off campus committees and organizations.
Series III contains documents pertaining to the art and art history courses offered, enrollment, and schedules. There is also correspondence relating to the proposal of a Fine Arts Major at Rice University. Also there are lists of students accepted as majors. Grading and examination schedules, etc., are also included.
Series IV contains material from art department exhibits and gallery information. The exhibits are listed by artist name. There are gallery exhibits and transient exhibitions. These files may include press releases, brochures and announcements sent out to the community. Some of the general files pertain to artwork gifts and the CAA collection. There is also a folder of membership information such as MOMA, College Art Association, American Educational Theatre Association, Print Council of America, etc. Policies for operation of the gallery are included as well as a brief outline of the opening of the Allen Center Gallery and the plans for its operation.
Series V contains the general files such as calendars, correspondence and other general business of the Fine Arts Department. Much of the correspondence is between the chairman and other university offices, such as Dean of Humanities, faculty, and other campus departments. There is one folder of John O'Neil's personal correspondence and includes a photograph of him. Some of the general information pertains to students and a couple of folders pertain to foreign study. There is correspondence about the publishing of a student magazine called "Collage." Fellowship and scholarship information is found in this series. One file contains correspondence relating to the Fine Arts Studio Building near the old stadium. One architectural drawing is included. There is a brief history of the department's early days.
Series VI contains the personnel files from the Fine Arts Department. Files on some visiting lecturers and some resumes and correspondence are included here. The then current staff member's curriculum vitae files are included. One file is from President Pitzer's office and pertains to Fine Arts candidates for employment. The Miscellaneous Correspondence file includes some personnel correspondence that has references to hiring decisions and other departmental milestones such as the gallery program.
The Clarence R. Wharton Papers includes Wharton's papers, correspondence and manuscripts related to Texas history. The correspondence pertains primarily to the preparation and/or publication of his works, such as "Gail Borden, pioneer," "Wharton's History of Fort Bend County," "Remember Goliad," "L'Archeveque," and others. Also included is manuscript material of other authors.
This collection consists of 2.5 linear feet of photographs, correspondence, business records, clippings, and technical papers. The materials are from the Houston-based Kirby Petroleum Company and the records of George Sawtelle, who was president of the company for more than 20 years. The inclusive dates for the materials are 1921-1967, although the bulk of the materials cover the years 1931-1953. The primary correspondents are John H. Kirby, Clint Murchison, Cooper Ragan, and George Sawtelle. This material provides a valuable look at the early days of the oil industry in Texas. In particular it documents through correspondence the concerns and business goals of oil men from the 1920s through the 1940s. In addition, the personal correspondence of George Sawtelle reveals his close ties to family and business colleagues, as well has his charitable work. This collection does not contain significant amounts of published corporate materials, such as annual reports or press releases.
This material is composed mainly of architectural drawings, sketches, and prints featuring private residences, a few public buildings, and two-three artistic sketches. Project titles indicate that the majority of these buildings were planned for Brownsville, Cameron County, and South Padre Island (Texas).
The Lia Unrau science news research files were compiled by Unrau during her tenure as Science Editor in the Office of Media Relations and Information at Rice University (1995-2001), consisting of notes from research and interviews, press releases, technical materials, news clippings, photographs and related ephemera. Materials are arranged alphabetically in folders by titles, as given on the original folders.
Correspondence, research and genealogical notes compiled by former Rice professor Andrew Forest Muir. Subjects include early Texas history, early Texans, particularly Houston and Harris county, and the Episcopal Church in Texas, as well as the Anglican Church in Hawaii. Muir made the notes as a student at Rice Institute and at the University of Texas. The largest group of materials is Muir's alphabetical subject research files which relate to 19th century Texas and Houston history; the life and death of William Marsh Rice; the growth of the Catholic, Anglican, and Episcopal Churches in the 19th century via missionary work in Texas and Hawaii; and Hawaiian history, specifically clergymen in Hawaii. These research files were created and maintained by Andrew Forest Muir circa 1935-1969, with subjects covering a wide range dates, circa 1750-1969, bulk 1800s. Correspondents include fellow Texas historians, librarians and publishers such as Frank Wardlaw, Alfred A. Knopf, A.C. Greene, Angus Cameron (Editor, Alfred A. Knopf), attorney Cooper Ragan, William H. Masterson (regarding Journal of Southern History), Diana and Bill Hobby, J.W. Petty Jr. (Book Mart, Victoria, TX)Also of interest is Muir's collection of original treasury notes and manuscripts (Series VI) which dates mainly from the Republic of Texas Era and the U.S. Civil War era, reflecting everyday life through local (county, city, state, Confederate) currency from Texas and Southern states, as well as correspondence, receipts, military orders, and more.
Includes lists of research topics and publications, administrative correspondence regarding salary and grant funding.
This material was collected by Andrew Forest Muir and dates mainly from the Republic of Texas Era and the U.S. Civil War era, reflecting everyday life through local (county, city, state, Confederate) currency, correspondence, receipts, military orders, and more.
Rice University Commission on Women (RUCOW) records consist of minutes of meetings, correspondence and memoranda, surveys, task force and commission reports, ballots, realia and memorabilia.
This material consists of six handwritten pages by J.B. Harris dated December 16, 1863, recounting the capture of his battalion of confederate cavalry outside of New Iberia, Louisiana. Harris begins by informing the reader of the contents of letter followed by a two paragraph introduction to the situation. It is at this time that the writer begins to write in verse. There are twelve stanzas discussing the succession of events during the capture of Green's Texas Brigade. The stanzas are predominately four lines long with the rhyme being mainly the last syllable always exterior with no interior rhyme. The poem mentions various officers referring to them with an assumption of the reader's familiarity. The style of the poem is reminiscent of a ballad and ends with the actual capture of the brigade and its forced transit to New Orleans, Louisiana. The document continues with a two-paragraph letter signed by June B. Harris paying tribute to his comrades and discussing the actions of a particular Union officer that he perceived to have conducted himself inappropriately considering the disadvantages the Confederate soldiers were faced with. The second paragraph of J.B. Harris's letter is dedicated to the formal demonstration of gratuity for the Union soldiers' overall leniency and forbearance whilst dealing with their captives. A small paragraph then notes the destruction of Confederate records of the events by the 2nd Illinois. Then a six paragraph essay initialed J.B.H. and called Incidents of the Race narrates the events of the day, oscillating between technical language regarding the brigade and colloquialisms describing the Union soldiers and the battle. 
Six original handwritten pages by J.B. Harris in which he recounts the capture of his battalion of confederate cavalry outside of New Iberia, Louisiana in 1863. The format switches from verse to letter with many colloquialisms and an overall assumption that the reader is familiar with the subject and persons involved.
Also includes a modern handwritten transcription of Harris' notes for improved legibility.
The collection includes a bound volume of twenty-eight letters and a boxed photocopy. The vast majority of the correspondence is from Ms. Kezia Payne DePelchin to her sister, Sallie Payne, describing her experience as a volunteer nurse from late August to mid-November during the 1878 yellow fever epidemic. The letters explain DePelchin's motivations for traveling to Memphis and joining the Howard Association as a volunteer nurse, her experiences as a nurse, the reactions of Memphis society to the work of female nurses, and the difficulties of her occupation. The letters also recount the spread and effects of the epidemic, and chronicle her travels through Tennessee and into Mississippi and Alabama as she followed the illness and responded to need. Letters to her sister from 1879, after her return home, are present as well. Also included in the volume were letters to DePelchin from E. Kate Heckle. Heckle, who was also a Houston resident and a friend of DePelchin, had nursed in several epidemics and responded to the same call for assistance from the Howard Assocation, volunteering from September through October. DePelchin and Heckle proceeded separately to Memphis, and saw each other sporadically through their stays. Heckle wrote several letters to DePelchin describing her own experiences and difficulties.
Two letters written by Sarah Austin, a writer, translator, and wife of jurist John Austin. One letter relates to the dangerous illness of her brother; the other refers to her stay at Bonchurch and mentions that she had written a letter to The Times with references to Shakespeare's house.
The Rhode Island Artillery, 5th Regiment, Company G Records measure 1.5 linear feet and are arranged in one document case and one oversize map folder. The collection contains correspondence dating from 1861-1880, including Orders and Special Orders issued at New Berne, North Carolina; invoices and receipts of clothing and equipment; and papers of one Captain John H. Robinson, recording his muster into the First Regiment of the Rhode Island Detached Militia in April 1861 as a private, his rise to the rank of captain, and evidence of his activities as a civilian in 1873 and 1880.
The Judge Peter W. Gray papers include extensive handwritten documents on several of Gray's early Texas district court cases, lectures, speeches, and official documents concerning the creation and organization of the Texas Historical Society. Court cases relate to murder, slavery, counterfeiting, the legal nature of circumstantial evidence and self defense; the notes related to these cases are generally Judge Gray's direction to juries. The speeches include a speech given by Gray at the Democratic Convention in Austin in 1852 for the nomination of Sam Houston for the presidency.
The collection consists of an original manuscript diary by Elizabeth Craw, which contains entries from 1833-1841. The diary recounts in short, sporadic entries her 1833 journey from Cleveland, Ohio, to Saint Augustine, Texas to see her soldier fiancé, Samuel Evans. Craw writes of the methods and difficulties of their long trek on horseback, along the Mississippi and Red Rivers, and across Louisiana bayous. After Craw and her future in-laws arrived in Texas, the entries stop until March 20, 1836, when the diary indicates that Evans was killed at the Alamo. The journal shows that Craw opened a small school in her house in Saint Augustine in 1837. In much of her journal after this, Craw expresses her despair through poems and passages. In 1841, Craw writes in Cleveland that she had "come back to die in the home of my father/ and sit 'neath the blossoms that mock my decay/ And thus my fond memory the sad harvest gathers/ of friendships and loves that have long passed away."
The manuscript diary is by a young German girl from the Saarland area of Germany. The author appears to be from a rich, Catholic family. The bulk of the diary pertains to the girl's personal life and daily activities; however, comments about conditions in Germany during the war are also found in the work. The diary is written in German. It was found in Saarburg by the donor, who arrived to the German town during World War II with occupation troops. According to donor's letter, the town was deserted at the time of the diary's discovery.
These papers are a collection of biographical notes and material pertaining to John Wyatt Moody, first auditor of the Republic of Texas. They were collected together by Helen Foster Snow, a certified genealogist and descendant of John Moody. The first two groups of documents are transcribed and annotated versions of correspondence between John Wyatt Moody and Sam Houston, along with various other important revolutionary figures.
Medical record book from November 1836 to November 1837 of Brazoria physician John McNeill Stewart. Each of the entries includes dates, names, and treatment prescribed along with his fee.
Over one half of the collection documents cattle ranching, oil prospecting, and banking in Texas) as well as personal and family life during the Great Depression. The William Allen Haynes collection offers a view of living conditions of a prosperous Central Texas rancher and entrepreneur as well as providing information on conditions in Texas in the first part of the 19th century. Haynes corresponds with his wife Parrie and family. Of additional interest are the letters which describe the Great Depression years and the letters commenting on politics or seeking Haynes' endorsement. Among the most noteworthy of the political letters are those dealing with James and Miriam Ferguson who also appear in the business letters.
William Allen Haynes was an inveterate collector, saving everything from cattle bulletins to the dietary cure for gonorrhea. From 1901-1917 Haynes was primarily interested in ranching, and his papers proved considerable information on range conditions in central Texas, the cattle markets in Ft. Worth, and his efforts to build up and maintain his ranch through the use of numerous loans and mortgages. About 1918 Haynes obtained an interest in the Leon Valley Oil Company, and for the next few years he received extensive correspondence from his brother Robert on the ups and downs of the oil business. From 1919 to about 1935, Haynes' business papers cover a much wider spectrum than in previous years. Besides ranching and oil, the papers deal with land speculation, litigation concerning land titles, and banking. Of special interest in the papers is the correspondence concerning Haynes' efforts to keep the troubled First National Bank of Killeen open. From 1929 to 1935 Haynes served as the president of this bank, and corresponded with prominent Texas bankers as well as Governor Miriam and Jim Ferguson. The papers for 1935 to 1952 show a decline in Haynes' business activity. The primary importance of this segment of the collection is the information it gives on the cattle market in Fort Worth, Kansas, Missouri, Oklahoma, and Illinois. Besides business records the Haynes collection contains personal bank records, private correspondence and material pertaining to Bell County Politics from1914 to 1922. Typical contents: Court Summons, Real Estate Advertisements, Bank Loan Application and General Correspondence, Receipts for Various Business Purchases, Bail Bonds, Jury Summons, Official Complaint Forms, Criminal Subpoena Forms, Livestock Manuals, Farmer's Bulletins and Advertisements, Life Insurance Forms, Political Messages, Bank Deposit Slips, Tax Receipts, Warrant of Arrest Form.
Distinctive Documents: "Rid-O-Fat" weight loss supplement advertisement, Medicated Livestock Salt advertisement, Various automotive parts advertisements
Distinctive Documents: Freight Bill for transportation of cattle, Receipt for the sale of cattle, Bank collection notice
Distinctive Documents: Stock Company Correspondence, Temple Daily Telegram subscription notice, Livestock Contract, Mortgage Forms, Diamond Tire Advertisement with two steel nails to test puncture resistant tires
Distinctive Documents: Automobile Tire Caps Advertisements
Distinctive Documents: Oil Stock and Land Advertisements
Distinctive Documents: Cattle Registration Certificate, Army Auction Notice, Furniture Sale Notice,
Distinctive Documents: Chiropractor's Business Card, Membership Card to the United States Live Stock Association
Distinctive Documents: Law Suit Correspondence, Holland's Magazine of the South, Lumber Company Receipt, Shaving Cream Receipt, Cotton Price Index and History from 1829-1922
Distinctive Documents: Cotton Price Index and History from 1829-1922, Tickets to Central Texas Fair
Distinctive Documents: Campaign Letter For R.H. Buck for Chief Justice of Supreme Court of Texas, List of School Lands coming to Market as of September 1, 1924, Receipt for a Hat
Distinctive Documents: Surgical Appliances Magazine, Warranty Deed
Distinctive Documents: Information Booklet regarding Milk Goats and Goat Milk, Ray Montieth for County Clerk, Poultry and Stock Show
Distinctive Documents: Poll Tax Receipt, Taxidermy Advertisement, Traveller's Insurance Document, Scott and White Hospital Documents, Women's Shoes Magazine
Distinctive Documents: Rural Telephone Company Check, Political Discourse on Tariffs in a telegram
Distinctive Documents: Ford manual
Distinctive Documents: Poll Tax Receipt, Temperance Movement Document
Distinctive Documents: Tax Redemption, Letter from Governor Miriam Ferguson regarding Banks buying relief bonds
Distinctive Documents: Banker Lobbyist Group letter to W.A. Haynes, Letter from a Texas Congressman regarding Civil Service Exam
Distinctive Documents: Texas Banker's Association official guest list.
The personal letters received by Haynes and his wife Parrie are among the most interesting portions of the collection. These letters from family and friends give an authentic account of the condition of rancher in Central Texas in the first half of the 19th century. Of particular interest are the letters which describe the Great Depression years and the letters commenting on politics or seeking Haynes' endorsement. Among the most noteworthy of the political letters are those dealing with James and Miriam Ferguson who also appear in the business letters.
Contents: Personal Checks and other monetary records demonstrating his financial situation year to year. Haynes kept practically every canceled check, bank statement, and note payment receipt he ever received, and taken into consideration together give a fairly accurate gauge of his financial situation in any particular year.
Contents: Marriage Invitations, Commencement Invitations, Postcards, Letter from Soldier, Personal Finance Records, Personal Letters regarding W.A. Haynes and Family
Contents: Civil Vote Tally on the Prohibition of Beer, Civil Vote Tally on the Prohibition of Pool Halls, Civil Vote Tally on Prohibition of Alcohol, Farm Mortgages, Letters addressed to W.A. Haynes regarding his position as overseer of general and special election
Charles B. Johnson Confederate Supply Requisition records pertain to the business of the Wichita Indian Agency as well as receipts, quartermasters' store lists, payment abstracts, invoices, and records of acquisitions made by the Confederate States of America in the State of Texas.
The collection consists of two diaries and correspondence, such as cards, letters and postcards, as well as travel memorabilia from her trips to Europe, Ireland and the Middle East. Extensive documentation of the Carter, Slack, and Casperson family histories, including correspondence, newspaper clippings, photographs, and family history books, is also present. Memorabilia from Ruth Carter Slack's personal life, such as lists, inventories, address books, and items from her early life and included, as well as a record of her hospital visit in 1990.
Correspondence, calendars of events, event programs, invitations, agendas, mailing lists, minutes, brochures, testimonials and more related to the celebration of the 2004 inauguration of Rice University's seventh president. The Leebron Inaugural Committee created or maintained the bulk of this material.
Series I is made up of the inaugural committee's working papers. This material consists of committee lists; faculty, institutional, foundation, and dignitary mailing lists; meetings and agendas; thank you notes; the inauguration schedule; and information related to the 1993 inauguration of Rice's sixth president, S. Malcolm Gillis. There is limited correspondence. This series is organized alphabetically.
Series II includes investiture invitations; investiture programs; investiture tickets; and internal documents related to digital recording of inaugural events, a timeline of inaugural events, transportation, parking, line of procession, regalia, and the presidential medal. Series II also includes information about the delegates who were invited to or who attended the inaugural events. Delegate lists are provided both numerically by the founding date and alphabetically by the name of the institution or society. This series also includes other types of information provided for delegates, such as a schedule of events, details about transportation, Houston events, and robing. This series is arranged alphabetically.
Series III is made up of events connected with the inauguration of David W. Leebron. It is arranged chronologically. Events covered include an art exhibit, cocktail reception, alumni/student reception, inaugural concert, and post-investiture luncheon and dinner.
Series IV contains a list of inaugural expenses incurred and is arranged alphabetically. This includes expenses related to the investiture itself, as well as those related to printing, publicity, events, and administration. A media plan, copies of printed materials such as the Leebron Family insert and a visitor's guide that went into each delegate's package, and a typescript of a commemorative book about Rice and the inaugural are also within this series.
The collection consists of personal correspondence of Hallam Tennyson, who was the eldest son and biographer of the poet Lord Alfred Tennyson (1809-1892). Correspondents include Mrs. Allingham, Sir George Grove, J. M. Ludlow, A. West. The collection contains letters that deal with Nelson letters, Captain Mahon, and Tennyson's memoir of his father. He writes to Ludlow regarding his Tennyson: a Memoir. Another letter refers to Hester Ritchie, W.M. Thackeray's grand-daughter. Several newspaper clippings published during Tennyson's life give additional biographical information from the period.
The collection consists of the form letter sent from Thomas W. Hotchkiss regarding the effects of women's suffrage, as well as the responses from public officials in states that had previously adopted the measure. The form letter, dated September 27, 1915, was sent to public officials in hopes of soliciting responses to the opposition to suffrage. Hotchkiss' letter asked if women began to neglect their homes, if the social fabric had been damaged, if undesirable women are active, and how one should respond to the argument that voting women should be expected to defend her country. Twenty-seven public officials responded, including the Governor of Alaska, the Executive Secretary of California, the Governor of Illinois, the Attorney General of Utah, the Governor and Lieutenant Governor of Colorado, the Secretary of State and the Chief Justice of Washington, and the Governor, Chief Justice, and Secretary of State of Kansas. From Montana, the Governor, Chief Justice, Secretary of the Department of the Attorney General, and the Secretary of State all responded. In Nevada, the Governor, Chief Justice, Attorney General, and Secretary of State also sent responses, as did the Governor, Chief Justice, Secretary of State, and State Librarian of Oregon. The Governor, Secretary of State, Attorney General, and Deputy Secretary of State of Wyoming also wrote in response to the survey. The responses, which were of varying length and enthusiasm, were all in support of women's suffrage. 
Textbook of arithmetic instruction written in French ca. 1650, probably for the instruction of a Prince of Orange. Contents include chapters on currency, bookkeeping, and interest. Also included are approximately twenty small hand-colored illustrations throughout the book, mainly of fruits, plants, and birds.
Meeting minutes, membership directories, photographs, newsclippings, biographical notes and more document the members and activities of the Twenty-Six Literary Club from 1910-1994.
Containing resolutions of respect composed by club members for members who have passed away.
Featuring: Joyce Nagle, Lee Lawrence, Edna May Cunningham, Mary Margaret LeGrand, Bernice Kennedy, D. Armstrong, Maxine Manning, Evelyn Walters, Lee Pickle, Ruby Clifton, Gwen Seammen, Grace Moseley, Frances Cole, Roxie Richardson, P. Ryan, G. Wilson, M. Hardison, Kathryn Dennard, Alberta Taylor, Y. Nash, C. Nash, A. Suchichi, Verena Engstrom, Allene Hamilton, Glenna Wilson, Mrs. Hrivnatz, Lynn Griggsly
These records include the original William Marsh Rice murder trial records, and the estate records of Rice, founder of Rice Institute, now Rice University. These records relate to the formation of the idea of the Rice Institute and the activities of its first Board of Trustees in the years before Mr. Rice's death and to the Institute's formative years just after his death. The outcomes of the legal proceedings documented in these records, which related to significant financial resources and real estate, played the critical role in the creation of Rice Institute. A small amount of Rice's personal and business papers are also present. See Series descriptions in the Detailed Description of the Collection for more information.
These cases are filed chronologically based on each case's beginning date. Major cases include cases challenging William Marsh Rice's late wife's will and William Marsh Rice's murder trial. Each generally includes correspondence, notes, and legal documents such as testimony, exhibits, trial documents, affidavits, releases, published versions of the trials, and newsclippings. The first case is that of William Marsh Rice vs. Orren T. Holt, executor of Mrs. Elizabeth Baldwin Rice's estate, 1896-1902, regarding Rice's challenge to his wife's will. This trial began while W.M. Rice was living and continued after his death. Mrs. Rice's will assumed that the couple's property was divisible equally under Texas' community property law, and would have given away significant funds and lands, including the land on which Rice University sits today. W.M. Rice and his representatives proved that the couple were actually residents of new York and not Texas, making Mrs. Rice's will essentially null. The lawyer for Mrs. Rice's executor, Orren T. Holt, was Albert T. Patrick, who features as the defendant in the Rice murder trial. This case was settled in 1903 for $200,000. The second case is William Marsh Rice's murder trial, People of the State of NY vs. Patrick, 1900-1902. The evidence available here includes medical and handwriting experts' testimony, as well as the original glass plate negatives of Rice's real and alleged signatures used to prove Patrick's forgery of the 1900 Wm. M. Rice will, which benefited Patrick greatly and essentially scrapped significant plans for the Rice Institute, thereby proving Patrick's motive for the murder. Patrick was convicted and went to prison, but only a few years later was pardoned and released. Adele Baldwin vs. W. M. Rice Jr. & executors of Rice will, 1886-1908, the last large case in this series, relates to Mrs. Elizabeth Baldwin Rice's heirs challenging the executors of W.M. Rice's estate and is essentially a continuation of William Marsh Rice vs. Orren T. Holt. In November 1905, the case was decided, then appealed. Attorneys included Arthur Turnure of NY, for administrators of estate of E.B. Rice; William B. Hornblower, Atty. for estate of Wm. M. Rice (Hornblower, Byrne, Miller & Potter, of NY); and Oran Holt, Houston representative for E.B. Rice estate, with A.T. Patrick as his NY legal representative (up until the time of his trial and incarceration).
Adele Baldwin, Julia Roberts, Marian Roberts Robinson, and Lola Morton Seybel, plaintiffs – against – Wm. Marsh Rice Jr., John D. Bartine, and James A. Baker Jr., executors of the Last Will and Testament of William M. Rice, deceased.
Includes litigation records related to proving of 1896 Wm. M. Rice will, probate of estate, temporary administration of estate, estate appraisal and taxes, land deeds and titles, inventory of property, correspondence, releases from Rice relatives, judicial settlement of estate and more.
This series includes documentation of early Rice Board of Trustees activities, revealing some of the very first attempts to shape the Institute. Correspondence, particularly with Capt. James A. Baker, Board meeting minutes, financial documents, loan documents showing how Rice Institute acted as a bank for real estate and business ventures, and Board research on charitable institutions and other universities' and colleges' charters and reports.
Dates reflect the dates of the documents, not necessarily the range of dates of the loans.
Correspondence, financial notes.
Financial and legal correspondence, receipts, promissory notes, and records of land holdings (titles and deeds) in this series document Wm. M. Rice's business dealings and name many of his financial holdings, business agents and legal advisors.
This series includes a small amount of family correspondence, personal receipts for items such as clothing at Lord &Taylor, and Wm. M. Rice's certificate of membership in the Holland Lodge No. 1 of the Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons.
Original letters, broadsides, pamphlets, printed materials and books documenting the political and cultural relationships between the United States, Mexico, Central and South America, Cuba, Spain, and Portugal, beginning with the heyday of nation formation from 1776 to 1815 and ending with the building of the Panama Canal in the early twentieth century. Many of the documents are original government publications such as constitutions, decrees, or presidential and congressional messages, and broadsides and pamphlets serving as public statements regarding the political and social events of the time. Other items of note include George F. Dunham's "A Journey to Brazil on the Good Ship Montpelier," an 1853 first hand description of slavery and plantation life in Brazil, and the first Mexico City printing (1821) of Augustin de Iturbide's Plan de Iguala.
Subject relates to two or more countries, or is written by one country about another.
Journals, scrapbooks, sketches, and photographs by and about Julian and Juliette Huxley, covering family life; travels on behalf of UNESCO and for other research and personal purposes to Africa, Australia, and Europe; awards and honors; and academic and creative writing.
Of the forty-five journals total, the majority were written by Juliette Huxley. The 1929 journal (not Africa) also has writings from 1933, 1937, 1939, 1975, and the one from 1942-43 also has inscriptions for 1964 and 1988. There is one journal from Julian Huxley, dated October-November 1908. There is also one journal, dated 1975, with a couple of notations by an apparent at-home nurse, perhaps during one of Juliette Huxley's illnesses. The journals are filed chronologically.
JSH's academic writings, sketches, notes, novel typescript, and the poem that garnered him the Newdigate Prize for English Verse make up this series. The series is filed alphabetically with the academic writings being filed chronologically.
This series contains photographs of the Huxley and Baillot families, as well as photographs of friends, places, structures, and wildlife. There are 3 subseries within this series: Albums, Loose Photographs, and Negatives. Within the Loose Photographs subseries appear to be 9 sub-subseries: JSH; JSH & MJH; Family; Friends; Places (or Travel); Wildlife; Artistic; Structures; and Oversize. Many of the Travel photographs appear to have been taken in connection with Huxley's association with UNESCO. The first 4 boxes in this Series consist of 28 photo albums. Many of the Albums were given numbers by the creator or donor. There are Albums 101-105 and 1-22 (with #s 2, 4, 5, 12, and 18 missing, and two # 13's). All of the photographs in Albums 20, 21, and 22 are loose. Many of those in Album 1, Album 10 and Album 101 have lost their glue. Album 101 also contains a table of contents on the first page. Albums 3 and 9 have packages of negatives in the front. The albums have been arranged chronologically.JSH, MJH, other Huxleys, Baillots, and Huxley friends are included in at least two of the packages of miscellaneous negatives in Box 17, one of those in Box 18, and one of those in Box 20.
Note that there are many photographs of wildlife in the Travel Sub-subseries, particularly among the photographs made in Africa and Israel.]
The contents of this record group include minutes, election information, and correspondence of the Rice University Faculty Council, and were drawn from several sources including Secretary of the Faculty (Robert L. Patten), President Pitzer's Papers, Vandiver and Hackerman Papers. Box 1 includes all of the records under the original format of the Faculty Council and early pre-Faculty Council materials from 1919-1925. Boxes 3 and 4 under the newer format. The organization of these files is chronological and the contents are primarily the minutes of meetings and agendas, with some correspondence and election information. The record groups most closely related to this one are Faculty Meeting Minutes, University Council, and Committee on University Welfare. Formats include photocopies and mimeographed sheets.
The Faculty Meetings record group contains minutes, agenda, and exhibits supporting the minutes (i.e. committee reports, etc.) from 1913 - 2005. In some time periods these files also include correspondence related to faculty meetings, drafts of minutes, faculty notices, committee lists, etc. The files are arranged chronologically and a folder exists for each faculty meeting containing at least the minutes of that meeting and often supporting material. There are occasionally subject folders interfiled chronologically where the bulk of material warrants such a file.
The Beta Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa at Rice was established in 1929. This record group contains the history of the Beta Chapter from its inception up until 2008, as documented by general correspondence, national correspondence, letters of acceptance, constitution and by-laws, minutes, register of members, journals, financial records, and printed materials. Included in the materials is correspondence and documents relating to the founding of the Beta Chapter at Rice University.
The first five folders in this series include the correspondence and documents relating to the founding of the Phi Beta Kappa chapter at Rice University.
Event planning documents, correspondence, notes, drafts, memos, press releases, newsclippings, photographs and memorabilia created and maintained by Rice University in support of the 1990 Economic Summit of Industrialized Nations, hosted by Rice University.
Meeting minutes and correspondence of the Rice University Athletic Committee, 1959-1991.
Records dating from the groundbreaking, founding, and development of Baker Hall and the Institute for Public Policy. Formats include informational booklets, groundbreaking materials, press releases, invitations to events, videotapes of events, development records, conference materials, and correspondence.
PDF documents which represent award certificates and photos of physical awards. Example awards included are.......
Foreign Policy Challenges at the End of the Century, November 13, 1995, reports and photographs, including Malcolm Gillis and Colin Powell. PDF copy of the Baker Institute Report, March, 1996.
Program for Annual Conference, 1996.
U.S. Foreign Policies on the Eve of the 21st Century, Oct. 16th, 1997 (includes photos of Djerejian, HW Bush, Kissinger and Gorbachev).
Distinguished Lecture Series: Feb. 7, 1995 - Madeline Albright (photos)
Distinguished Lecture Series: May 5, 1995 - Yasser Arafat (photos, also George HW and Barbara Bush, James A. Baker)
Ernst and Young Energy Series: April 10, 1995 - Shiek Ahmed Zaki Yamani (photos)
Baker 3rd Annual Conference: Oct. 15, 1997 - Photos of Kissinger and Gorbachev
November 20, 1997 - Nursultan Nazarbayev (photos)
Photos of Ambassador Djerejian and Lea Rabin.
Photo of Djerejian from the Meltdown in East Asia lecture, October 23rd, 1998.
Shell Distinguished Lecture Series: April 23rd, 1998 - Kofi Annan (Photos of Annan with Malcolm Gillis and Djerejian).
Shell Distinguished Lecture Series: October 23rd, 1998 - Lee Kuan Yew (Photo)
CIIS Beijing Photos.
Literature, Poetry and Public Policy photo, Feb. 10, 1999.
Breakfast Address by Giscard d'Estaing, Feb. 25th, 1999 (photos of Valery Giscard d'Estaing and Malcolm Gilles and Djerejian).
Round Table Meeting photos, March, 1999.
U.S. Foreign Policy in Africa-Which Way Forward?, April 27, 1999 (photos of African delagation).
China's Views on an Independent Taiwan, Sept. 17, 1999 (Tang Shubei photo).
Shell Distinguished Lecture Series: Bob Lanier - April 28, 1999 (photo).
Shell Distinguished Lecture Series: Andres Pastrana Arango - October 20, 1999 (Photos of Arango with James A. Baker and Ambassador Derejian).
Shell Distinguished Lecture Series: Nelson Mandela - October 26, 1999 (Photos of Mandela with crowd and various dignitaries).
Running on Empty-Prospecte for Future Oil Supply, May 19, 2000 (Thomas Ahlbrandt photo).
The Geography Behind Geopolitics, March 6, 2001 (Photo James A. Baker).
Forum on the Role of the National Security Advisor, April 12, 2001 (Photos).
The Role of the Secretary of the Treasury, October 5, 2001 (Photo).
With God On Their Side-The Impact of Islamic, Jewish, and Christian Fundamentalism, October 30, 2001 (Photo).
State Infrastructure Protection Advisory Committee Meeting, December 17, 2001 (Photo with John Cornyn and Michael McCaul).
Shell Distinguished Lecture Series: Alberto R. Gonzales, Sept. 7, 2001 (Photo).
Shell Distinguished Lecture Series: Al Faisal Al Sa'ud, Sept. 21, 2001 (Photo).
Shell Distinguished Lecture Series: Abdelaziz Bouteflika, Nov. 2, 2001 (Photo).
Shell Distinguished Lecture Series: Alan Greenspan, Nov. 13, 2001 (Photos).
Shell Distinguished Lecture Series: Vladimir Putin, Nov. 14, 2001 (Photos of Putin and George HW Bush).
Shell Distinguished Lecture Series: Nambaryn Enkhbayar, Nov. 19, 2001 (Photo).
The Future of the Oil Industry (Alan Greenspan photo).
U.S.-Syrian Dialogue - May 20, 2002 (Photos).
The Future of the Space Program and Space Policy - August 26, 2002 (Photo)
U.S.-Russia Commercial Energy Summit - October 2, 2002 (Photo)
Conference on U.S. Drug Policy - 2002 (Photo of Chief Lee Brown, HPD)
Shell Distinguished Lecture Series: Vaira Vike-Freiberga - Feb. 7, 2002 (Photo of Vike-Freiberga and Djerejian)
Shell Distinguished Lecture Series: King Abdullah - May 9, 2002 (Photos of King Abdullah with James A. Baler and Edward Djerejian)
Afghanistan Symposium - February, 2003 (Zalmay Khalilzad and Derejian photo)
Qian Qichen - November 6, 2003 (Photos)
The Various Confrontations in Isreal Today - November 7, 2003 (Amos Oz and Djerejian photos)
Address by Dr. Amartya Sen - Novemvber 11, 2003 (Photo Dr. Sen and Djerejian)
Middle East Conflicts and Nuclear Proliferation - November 18, 2003 (Photo)
Shell Distinguished Lecture Series: Helmut Kohl - October 1, 2003 (Kohl and James A. Baker at Berlin Wall photos)
Shell Distinguished Lecture Series: Olusegun Obasanjo - November 5, 2003 (Photos)
Changing Minds, Winning Peace - January 20, 2004 (Photo)
Raymond Dubois - February 13, 2004 (Photo)
Moshe Ma'oz - February 17, 2004 (Photos)
Clark Randt Student Forum Coffee - February 26, 2004 (Photo)
Working Together in the Post-911 World - April 22, 2004 (Anders Fogh Rasmussen and Djerejian photos)
The Gropolitics of Natural Gas: From Today to 2030 - May 26, 2004 (Photos)
Shell Distinguished Lecture Series: Hosni Mubarak - April 14, 2004 (Mubarak, Djerejian and Baker photos)
Shell Distinguished Lecture Series: Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani - September 28, 2004 (Photos)
Shell Distinguished Lecture Series: Rudolph W. Giuliani - September 29, 2004 (Giuliani, Djerejian and Baker photos)
Shell Distinguished Lecture Series: Tom Brokaw - November 15, 2004 (Photos)
Israeli-Palestinian Workshop - 2005 (Photos)
U.S.-Arab Relations: Outlook For 2005 - January 31, 2005 (Amr Moussa and James A. Baker photos)
U.S.-Japan Joint Seminar - July 20, 2005 (Photo)
Shell Distinguished Lecture Series: Prince Saud Al Faisal - September 21, 2005 (Photo)
American Vertigo - February 13, 2006 (Photo)
Robert Mosbacher - April 12, 2006 (Photo)
Shell Distinguished Lecture Series: Shimon Peres - January 16, 2006 (Photos)
Shell Distinguished Lecture Series: Shri Murli Deora - March 31, 2006 (Photo)
The Woman's Issue - May 20, 2007 (Photo)
Shell Distinguished Lecture Series: Bill Clinton - August 2, 2007 (Lecture pamphlet and photo)
Policy Lunch with Fellow Bill Martin - March 23, 2009 (Photos)
America and China: The Next Thirty Years - April 3, 2009 (Henry Kissinger and James A. Baker photo)
Ambassadresses at Large - April 21, 2009 (PDF document and PDF intro remarks by Francoise Djerejian)
Twenty Years After Madrid - November 2, 2011 (Djerejian and George H.W. Bush photo)
American Leadership in a Changing International Landscape - February 24, 2016 ( Warren Christopher, Kissinger, Bernard Shaw, etc. photo)
Baker Institute 10th Anniversary Gala. Photos of James A. Baker, Ambassador Djerejian, Malocolm Gillis, etc. and their spouses.
Baker 75th Birthday, April 28th, 2005. Photos of James A. Baker's 75th birthday, includes George H.W. Bush, Barbara Bush, Prof. William Martin and his wife Patricia, and Rice Pres. David Leebron.
Baker Institute 15th Anniversary. Includes PDF of a newspaper article about the Baker Institute's 15th anniversary.
20th Anniversary Gala, November 8th, 2013. Includes PDFs of the gala program, the dinner menu and assorted ephemera (including invitations, donation forms, etc.) and photos of attendees such as Malcolm Gillis, Ambassador Djerejian and James A. Baker.
Layalina Awards Gala, March 18, 2015 (Washington D.C.). Includes PDF of Gala program and PDF of Awards Presentation program.
Baker 25th Anniversary, Nov. 27th, 2018. Includes PDF of the event program and photos of James A. Baker, Barack Obama and Ambassador Djerejian.
Articles about goundbreaking of Baker Institute (PDF's include Rice University press release, Houston Post article, and article about former US presidents speaking at event).
Letters (Includes PDF's of letters to various dignataries such as Bill CLinton, Warren Christopher, and Yitzhak Rabin regarding Djerejian's retirement as ambassador and appointment as head of the Baker Institute).
Memo (PDF of a telegram from Bill Clinton to Djerejian accepting resignation).
Miscellaneous (Includes PDF's of Edward Djerejian's CV, Francoise Djerejian's CV, and a Rice University map).
Schedules (Includes PDF's of Ambassador Djerejian's schedule for May 19-21 and May 25, 1994).
Speeche (PDF of speech from May 20, 1994 at Rice University).
PDF's of informational pamphlets regarding the Baker Institute.
Houston Chronicle article from October 14, 1997 about the new James A. Baker Hall.
Photos of newly constructed Baker Institute building.
PDF of building layout images.
Photos of Baker Institute building dedication and dinner.
Articles (Articles about the groundbreaking and dedication of the Baker INstitute).
Budget (PDF of groundbreaking events working budget).
Donor Video (PDF of donor video production estimate).
George Bush (PDF's of George H.W. Bush's biography, letters between H.W. Bush and James A. Baker, PDF of H.W. Bush's schedule, and PDF's of H.W. Bush's speech).
Gerald Ford (PDF's of Ford's biography, schedule and speech plus photos).
Jimmy Carter (PDF's of Carter's speech, newspaper articles and video budgets).
Miscellaneous (Includes PDF's of Rice President Malcolm Gillis's biography, groundbreaking ceremony schedule, seating plan, etc.).
Photos of groundbreaking ceremony (includes former U.S. Presidents Gerald Ford and George H.W. Bush woth Baker and Djerejian).
Press Releases (PDF's of press releases surroundinhg the groundbreaking of the Baker Institute).
Reception (PDF's of groundbreaking ceremony reception menu and buffet layout).
Ronald Reagan (PDF's of Reagan's biography, correspondence with Gillis and Baker, groundbreaking ceremony speech and video production estimate).
Timelines (PDF's of groundbreaking ceremony planning timelines).
Ambassador Djerejian (Audio and video files of interview with Djerejian-includes transcript).
Bill Barnett (Audio file and transcript of interview with Bill Barnett).
John Rogers (Audio and video files of interview with John Rogers-includes transcript).
Rick Stoll (Audio and video files of interview with Rick Stoll-includes transcript).
James A. Bakes III (Audio file and transcript of interview with Baker).
Correspondence (PDF's of correspondence between James A. Baker and various individuals).
Leadership Committee Meeting 1993 (PDF's of LCM handbook, LCM documents, and LCM summary).
Leadership Committee Meeting 1994 (Images of assigned prospects, contacts, floor plans, agendas, committee names, status reports for campaigns and finances, and unassigned prospects).
This object contains two (2) videos
1) Baker Institute ground breaking ceremonies, Oct 20, 1994.
2) Shell Distinguished Lecture Series: The Palestinian-Isreali Conflict, May 9, 2020.
Object contains two (2) videos
1) US Foreign Policy Priorities on the Eve of the 21st Century lecture, Oct. 16, 1997
2) Shell Distinguished Lecture Series: The Middle East and Israel, Jan. 16, 2006
Video footage Shell Distinguished Lecture Series: Nelson Mandela, Former President of South Africa and Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Oct. 26, 1999
Invitations, programs, correspondence, testimonials and general information related to the
inauguration of Rice University's second president, William Vermillion Houston, on April 10,
1947. This material was created and maintained by the Presidential Inaugural Committee.
Correspondence, memos, schedules, etc. generated by the Presidential Inaugural Committee planning the Inauguration of Norman Hackerman as the fourth president of Rice University on September 24, 1971.
Correspondence, photographs, family trees, vital records and other genealogical material related to the Watkin family of Houston, TX (1910s-current) and of Pennsylvania. William Ward Watkin (1886-1952) was the first Supervising Architect of Rice Institute and the first chair of the Dept. of Architecture at Rice Institute. His daughter, Ray Watkin Strange, is a Rice graduate and significant supporter of Rice University and the Fondren Library.
U.S. Civil war imprints and currency, various 19th century broadsides, brief histories of Army Generals including U.S. Grant, W.T. Sherman, A.E. Burnside, and others, as well as other ephemera such as Benito Mussolini's personalized Gilette shaving kit. This material was collected over a period of years by John H. Wright. Books donated by Mr. Wright have been cataloged separately.
Correspondence, watercolor sketches, printed documents document the career and family of Sir William Sidney Smith. The bulk of the letters concern Smith's brother, John Spencer Smith, who was British ambassador to the Porte at Constantinople in the early 1790s. Correspondents include Robert Liston, British Minister to the United States. Also included is a genealogy of the Smith family, a battle order issued by Smith aboard HMS Tigre during the siege at Acre in 1799, and an invitation to the funeral of the Duke of Wellington.
Consists of correspondence (25 letters) between Cooper K. Ragan and Rice University history professor Andrew F. Muir. The majority of the correspondence deals with comments on Muir's published articles and papers, historical information, criticisms of others' works, and mention of meetings and programs of the Texas Historical Association and the Houston Civil War Roundtable. Two letters, written by Muir, are handwritten, signed. The last two letters (January 30 and 31, 1969) mention Muir's ill health. Andrew Muir died on February 3, 1969.
The materials are comprised of correspondence from Dr. Woodring to other Ricketts and
Shannon scholars, booksellers, museums and libraries. There is also correspondence from
Ricketts and Shannon as well as those in their circle such as Laurence Binyon, Gordon
Bottomley and Thomas Sturge Moore.
Biographical material such as theses, articles, essays and exhibition catalogs are included
as well as photocopies of artwork by Ricketts and Shannon. Included are proofs such as "The
Sleeping Methymnaeans," signed by Shannon, from Daphnis and
Chloe. Charles Ricketts and Charles Shannon both worked on the designs and the
cutting of the wood-blocks for this Vale Press publication. Of special note are works of art
by Ricketts and Shannon, including oil paintings, drawings and a large collection of
Shannon's lithographs.
Vale Press ephemera, such as notices, prospectuses, and invitations are included. A
collection of Vale Press titles, including The Vale Shakespeare
(1900-1904), as well as an extensive book collection on Ricketts and Shannon, are among the
holdings.
This collection consists of letters written to and from Sir Edwin Arnold. The letters to Arnold come from Hall Caine, Lord Brassey, Archbishop of Canterbury Benson, Lady Jeune, Dean Reynolds Hole, Augustin Daly, and Reverend Joseph Parker. The letters written by Arnold are addressed to E. Walford, Sir John Lubbock, the Baroness, Burdette, Coutts, and others. The letters refer to invitations and personal matters.
This series contains letters addressed to Sir Edwin Arnold from Rafurddin Ahman, Augustin Daly, Dean Reynolds Hole, Reverend Joseph Parker, Lord Brassey, and Lady Jeune. There are also two notes written by Sir Edwin Arnold: one is a reply to Miss Palmer regarding her request for his autograph, and the other is a reply to F.A. Turner, Esq., declining his request to photograph Sir Arnold's library.
This series contains letters addressed to Sir Edwin Arnold from Hall Caine and Archbishop of Canterbury Benson, as well as letters from Sir Arnold to Sir John Lubbock, E. Walford, and "My dear Maud."
This collection contains 62 letters written by Paul Blouet (pseudonym, Max O'Rell) and one written by Marie Blouet. Some are signed as Paul Blouet, others as Max O'Rell. Most letters are addressed to E.W. Appleton and G. Christy and discuss Blouet's various lecture tours and speaking engagements. In one letter to G. Christy, Paul Blouet discloses the recurrence of the cancer that would ultimately lead to his death. Also included in this collection is an agreement for the exclusive rights to manage Blouet's play, John Bull on the Continent, with Fredrick Mouillot.
32 letters, in fair condition.
31 letters, in fair condition.
This agreement gave Fredrick Mauillot the exclusive rights to manage Paul Blouet's play, John Bull on the Continent. Document is in fair condition.
The collection contains typescripts, page proofs, research material, correspondence,
photographs and artwork relating to Robert Patten's comprehensive work on the life of George
Cruikshank, entitled, George Cruikshank's Life, Times, and Art.
The first series contains material relating to the writing and production of the book,
including typescripts, proofs and correspondence with publishing house Rutgers University
Press and others, administrative materials and artwork.
The second series contains card file research notes, listing works, correspondence notes
(name of correspondents, subject of correspondence (ex. art related, business, personal),
location of repository and dates, bibliographical information, subject files and source
notes.
Series three includes research material, notes, photocopies of works and articles,
catalogs, correspondence, photographic materials, and subject files. Research material,
primarily notes and transcriptions of correspondence, from repositories such as Princeton
University, Harvard, UCLA and others are included. Collectors Frank S. Bradburn and the
artist, Ronald Searle are also represented. The series holds a collection of articles
relating to Cruikshank and book illustration and a series of lectures by Robert Patten.
Series four includes prints, pamphlets and illustrations including etchings, engravings and
woodcuts. Many are single leaves or a series of leaves from books illustrated by Cruikshank,
others are bound or loosely bound books and pamphlets. Still others are proofs (some
mounted) on India paper. Many of Cruikshank's works are represented, including illustrations
for Oliver Twist and Sketches by Boz (Charles Dickens), W.H. Ainsworth's novels, the Comic
Almanack and other illustrations and caricatures.
Series five includes manuscript materials by and about George Cruikshank. Several
collectors are represented, including Frank S. Bradburn, Christopher C. Kohler, Ronald
Searle, and a number of letters, documents and ephemera obtained through Sotheby's (David
Borowitz collection).
Minutes, records, correspondence, invitations, photographs, oral histories and other materials documenting the social and charitable activities of the Rice University Faculty Women's Club. The speakers and menus for the various programs and activities are noted, as well as names of persons memorialized. Directories and other lists often offer the members' married names as well as their given first names.
This series includes treasurer records, minutes, member list and member information, event information for the years 1997-2016.
Two autographed letters by George Cruikshank. One letter, dated November 7, 1845 is addressed to Angus B. Reach (1821-1856), a journalist and author of Clement Lorimer, or, The Book with the Iron Clasps. George Cruikshank provided twelve etchings for this novel. Another letter, dated March 20, 1868 is addressed to Captain [Edwin] Hurley. This letter is mounted in a slip-cased bound volume, with a portrait (etching) of George Cruikshank (Daniel Maclise, 1833).
Course materials, notes, correspondence and administrative papers of Dr. Robert L. Patten, Lynette S. Autrey Professor in Humanities at Rice University, Houston, Texas. Also included is material, correspondence, chapter material and notes relating to the publication, Palgrave Advances in Charles Dickens Studies (2006), edited by Robert L. Patten. Papers, correspondence and notes regarding Rice University, English Department business are part of the collection.
In 1997, Rice University began a national search for a new dean for the Wiess School of Natural Sciences. This collection contains records related to that search, including lists of committee members, lists of candidates, correspondence, university news releases and other related records, such as the 1997 strategic plan for the Wiess School of Natural Sciences.
Scope and Contents
Letters written by Maclay to Admiral Thomas A. Stevens mentioning his intention to write a comprehensive account of the Navy's part in the U.S. Civil War. The letters also request the Admiral's help in obtaining for Maclay the position of lighthouse keeper in Jefferson Harbor, Long Island, New York.
Scope and Contents
The collection consists of photocopies of 49 letters to Morrison Gunn from members of his family and various friends. For the most part they are personal, but also include information on the conditions faced by immigrant farmers and the problems of establishing a home.
Scope and Contents
This biographical manuscript of the life of Jared Ellison Groce II, features particular emphasis on his activities in Texas and was written in 1936 by Sarah Groce Berlet. The manuscript details the experiences from a 19th century white settlers' perspective. Prior to his death he divided his property between his sons Leonard Waller Groce and Jared E. Junior. Manuscript also contains information on the ancestry and life of son, Leonard.
Scope and Contents
This collection consists of a biography written by Houston Wade about Michel B. Menard, founder of Galveston. Included are newsclippings about Menard, other Texas personalities, and correspondence to Mr. Wade regarding the Menard family history.
Scope and Contents
This collection contains the complete unpublished manuscript of 38 leaves, a scribal copy with the author's signature at the conclusion (recto of leaf 38) entitled "Ensayo Sobre La Reduccion Y Colonizacion De Las Tribas Barbaras Del Continente." It is largely an account of the activities of the Church in 16th century Mexico relative to the indigenous population. In many instances, the author refers to the situation in the territories of Texas and California.
Scope and Contents
This logbook contains entries of the daily routine and observations made by midshipman John H. Gibbons during the 1882 cruise of the U.S.S. Jamestown from San Francisco, California to Newport, Rhode Island as well as detailed descriptions of the ship and its decks. Also contains a photo of the U.S.S. Jamestown.
This collection of letters were written by Eseck G. Wilber to his parents and family during the Civil War years, 1862-1864. The letters describe army life, pitched battles, inlcuding Fredericksburg, the Second Battle of Bull Run, and Chancellorsville. Also included in the letters are comments or mention of superior officers and other dignitaries, including George B. McClellan, Stonewall Jackson, Joseph Hooker, George Meade, and Abraham Lincoln.
Scope and Contents
This logbook relates a voyage of the U.S.S. Adams from San Francisco, California around the Pacific coasts of Central and South America from December 1, 1879 to February 23, 1881 kept by one of its officers, John H. Gibbons. Within the logbook are detailed sketches of the ship's decks as well as detailed descriptions of the ship's technical parts, equipment, supplies, and crew. The journal entries describe daily activities aboard ship, some routine and others observatory.
Scope and Contents
The diary of Augustus Ehinger begins June 15, 1846 and ends June 28, 1847. The diary chronicles Ehinger's travels and experiences as a private in the Second Illinois Regiment during the Mexican-American War. Ehinger writes about simple daily activities as well as battles, marches, and other soldiers in his regiment. The location of the original diary is unknown.
Scope and Contents
One report written by Hugh Harleston titled "Did Teotihuacan's Designers Have a Knowledge of Spherical Trigonometry?". Includes illustrations and appendices.
This collection consists of news clips, agendas, notes, memos, reports, Rice University course lecture notes and grade books, research notes, etc., from Lane's work at Rice University, the National Science Foundation, and the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy.
The collection consists of 16 boxes of books and papers, mostly from the 1860s, all of which were readily available to the public in the Confederacy at the time. The collection includes state and C.S.A. laws, ordinances, and regulations, military manuals, political dissertations, school books, novels, maps, tracts, and sermons. Also included are works related to the Confederacy such as histories of the war and autobiographies. Most are originals, any photocopies are noted as such in this listing. The numbers associated with most items refers to numbers used in the published volumes of citations "Confederate Imprints: A checklist based principally on the collection of the Boston Athenaeum", by Marjorie Lyle Crandall, published in two volumes by the Boston Atheneaum, 1955 and in "More Confederate Imprints", by Richard Harwell, The Virginia State Library, 1957.
A collection of letters written by British officers serving in Portugal during the Peninsular War referring to matters concerning the war. Among the writers are Lord Fitzroy Somerset, Colonel Trant, Major R. M. Patrick, Major William Tulloh, and Major Williams. Recipients include Marshal William Carr Beresford, Lieutenant-Colonel Robert Arbuthnot, and Lieutenant-Colonel Henry Hardinge. Also included in the collection is a memorandum to the Minsistre de la guerre re. candidates and a Military chart (22 April 1808).
Minutes from Space Assignment Committee meetings, and memoranda among committee members and from faculty discussing allocation of classroom and office space. Material has been arranged in chronological order.
Scope and Contents
Photocopies of letters written by Union soldier Corporal James K. Lovejoy to his wife while stationed in Louisiana, 1863-1864. Lovejoy describes camp life, including detailed descriptions of the food and general camp conditions, and writes of his travels and adventures. The letters describe the conditions and attitudes of people both in Louisiana and the Union forces. Collection also contians a photocopy of the death certificate of James K. Lovejoy, dated July 22, 1908.
Scope and Contents
This letter (10 January 1890) from Moses Austin Bryan letter to Col. W.W. Fontaine is in response to a series of questions concerning the revolutionary period in Texas history. Topics included General Houston's address to the army on the Salado, whether Houston had ordered Mosley Baker to to burn San Felipe, Deaf Smith's stress on the importance of destroying the bridge over Vince's Bayou to prevent reinforcements to Santa Anna, and plotting and faction at San Felipe.
Scope and Contents
The Glass financial papers are primarily a collection of records and receipts of purchases and land sales gathered during the course of Glass' activities as receiver of revenue during the U.S. Civil War.
Scope and Contents
The Hobbs diary records his experiences as a volunteer recruit in New England, his participation in the Battle of Galveston, and his life as a prisoner in Houston. Included in the collection is the Bible he apparently carried with him during this period. The Bible contains notes of soldiers' deaths and burials, and a rough list of the dates Hobbs arrived at various locations during his Civil War service.
These materials reflect the daily business of Rice University Chairman of the Board Bill Barnett, including correspondence, reports, publications and newsclippings. As board chair, Barnett led the strengthening of the university's governance, moving from the two-tiered board to a single-tier board enlarged to 25 trustees. Under his leadership, the board elected a far more diverse group of trustees with representation from all parts of the country; the university amended its charter to allow for the use of debt financing, which led to the largest building and modernization program in the campus's history; and the university's endowment grew from $1.7 billion to $3.4 billion.
This collection highlights the founding of the Jones School of Management and its daily business from establishment of the school in 1974 through the ground breaking of the Jones School's new building in 2000. Records contain information relating to the school's founding and history, its bylaws, faculty and alumni directories, correspondences, press releases and newsclips, national accreditation, and awards. It also contains items regarding fundraising, various projects undertaken by the school, lectures and seminars, scholarships and grants, as well as documents related to the school's various corporate and individual contributors. The collection also features a significant holding of documents from many Jones School professors and instructors, as well as various Rice University professors and administrators with ties to the Jones School.
Scope and Contents
The collection includes "Notices of the Life of Lord Byron by Moore and Remarks on Those Notices by Lady Byron", part of an article which poet Campbell published in "The New Monthly Magazine," in March or April, 1830 decrying Moore's biography of Byron and defending Lady Byron in the matter of the couple's separation. Also included is a signed receipt (1843, "Payment for fourth copy of my Poems".) and letters to Francis Freeling, J. Richardson, Miller, Engraver at Edinburgh and others. They describe a holiday in the Isle of Wight, in one he writes about postage on his sheets from the printer; in others he discusses his writings. There is also a portrait of Campbell in the collection.
Scope and Contents
The letters concern Ms. Hattie Lel Red's scholarship fund raising activities on behalf of Dr. Edward Phillips' history students at Austin College and his responses thereto. Her letters also cover her memories of her time at Rice and of her family, classmates and teachers, as well as comments concerning her travels in Texas and elsewhere.
Records documenting the daily business of the Society of Rice University Women, including membership information, financial records and activity scrapbooks. Formats include membership lists, treasurer's reports, bank records, meeting minutes, event flyers, scrapbooks, photographs, and yearbooks.
The records consist of budget information, correspondence and many exhibition files that contain attendance, finances and general information on each exhibition. The files are arranged chronologically.
Exhibits include: Golub Piper; Think Deeply and Well; To the Point 32.
Exhibits include: Cybervato; Day Without Art; Michael Shaughnessy; Narrating the Self 33; Seductive Matter; Y. David Chung.
Exhibits include: Art Matters; Eve Andree Laramee; Fred Tamselli; Sol LeWitt.
Exhibits include: Antonio Martorell; Charles Howard; Collapse; Gary Hill; Yayoi Kusama.
Exhibits include: Jane Miller; Michael Petry; Moving On; Nicole Eisenman; Stepehen Kene.
Exhibits include: Barry McGee; Check It Out; Clubs of Bamako; Shout Outs; Stephen Hendee.
Exhibits include: Celeste Mougenot; James Cullinane; Karim Rashid; Martha Burgess; On the Verge; Winter Horbelt.
Exhibits include: Adriana Arenas Ilian; All That; David Chien; Jennifer Steinkamp; Lee Mingwei; Liga Pang.
Exhibits include: Ester Partegas; Exit; Phoebe Washburn; Shigeru Ban.
Exhibits include: Ackroyd Harvey; Alyson Shotz; Bercowetz Bua; Tara Donovan; Under the Radar.
Exhibits include: Allen Ruppersberg; Eve Sussman; Jacob Hashimoto; Jessica Stockholder; Output.
Exhibits include: David Ellis; Diane Landry; Lisa Hoke; Shine; White Webb.
Exhibits include: Art for Profit; Ball Nogues; John Cerney; Judy Pfaff; Mike Stilkey.
Exhibits include: Charlie Roberts; Kirsten Hassenfeld; Launch; Mark Fox; Miscellaneous.
Exhibits include: Aurora Robson; Henrique Oliveira; Michael Saulter; Miscellaneous; Paul Villinski.
Exhibits include: Andrea Dezso; El Anatsui; Wayne White.
Exhibits include: Mary Temple; Sarah Oppenheimer.
Scope and Contents
This collection of play programs and related printed publications was created and maintained mainly by John Blodgett Davis and reflects the Houston, Texas theater scene primarily in the 1950s and 1960s
Scope and Contents
Letters written by General Pershing on both personal and official business. Correspondents include Earl of Derby, Mrs. Kingsley Ohl, Hon. Louis C. Crampton, Dr. Clarence J. Owens, Mrs. James C. Frazer, General Calcer C. Sniften, Reverend Alton M. Young, Lieutenant Col. George Grosman, Col. Hugh J. Gallagher, John A. Stewart, Josephine Patten, Paul Maerker Branden, and Mr. Wheeler.
Correspondents writing to the Ms. Horners include Ellen Kean, F. Maurice, Harriet Hosmer, C.P. Marsh, E. Ryan, H.H. Hilman, Sir James Hudson, Rose Kingsley, Sir H.E. Bunbury, Frances Cobbe, and Sir James Clark. The letters deal with Walks in Florence, Italian affairs, and refer to Eastlake, the Lyells, Royalties, Froude, etc. Included is one letter to Leonard Horner from Lord Landsdowne.
Scope and Contents of the Papers
The journal primarily recounts the army career of David Latimer Tinling-Widdrington's son, George Widdrington, from 1796 until his death in 1813 at the Battle of Vittoria, the decisive battle of the Peninsular War. The journal contains numerous descriptions of battles, many taken from copies of letters sent by George to his family. Also included are copies of other letters, including several by Joseph Cook, a relative by marriage. The journal contains a great deal of genealogical information concerning the Widdrington name, and Army lists (British, Portuguese, and French armies).
Letter written from American naval officer and historian A.T. Mahan to Gen. James Wilson regarding the publication of Mahan's biography of Farragut. Admiral David Glasgow Farragut (1801-1870), an American naval officer who served during the U.S. Civil War, is quoted as having said at the Battle of Mobile Bay, "…Damn the torpedoes … full speed ahead!"
The bulk of the correspondence is from Young M. Moody to his "Dear and Confiding Wife.", written during the U.S. Civil War. In addition there are other family letters, military correspondence, land and business records, photographs, daguerreotypes and badges of rank and an epaulet from General Moody's uniform.
This is a collection of twenty-seven letters, mostly handwritten and accompanied by their original envelopes. Each letter addresses the subject posed by Mrs. Kaderli when she asked for guidance in explaining death to her small daughter. A few of the letters are photocopies which replace lost originals. She wrote a series of letters to leaders in the fields of art, music, literature, science, religion, medicine and other fields, and the responses to her letters make up the content of this collection. Famous figures such as Sir Julian Huxley, Aldous Huxley, C.S. Lewis, Eleanor Roosevelt and Carl Sandburg replied.
Two leaves of parchment, handwritten, presenting a permanent scholarship for girls on behalf of the John McKnitt Alexander Chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution.
Handwritten, presenting a permanent scholarship for girls on behalf of the John McKnitt Alexander Chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution
This is a handwritten letter dated July 30, 1828 and signed by C.A. Somerset. The letter is addressed to an un-named publisher, in which Somerset refers to a short manuscript sent with the letter and requests addresses for "respectable publishers in the Whig interest." The letter is one sheet of paper measuring 16 cm by 20 cm. The paper is in excellent shape except for two corners, which are torn off probably as a result of the wax used to seal the letter. The torn corners do not affect the handwriting, which is very clear.
The Texas City disaster records were created and / or maintained by survivor Robert M. Morris. The reports, statements, images and notes describe the events of the April 16, 1947 when a French freighter carrying fertilizer caught fire and exploded, causing disaster on shore at the nearby Monsanto petroleum plant and other refineries, homes, warehouses and buildings. At least 576 were killed and 4,000 injured, with the town being almost completely destroyed. Original materials of note include Monsanto statements and reports and correspondence about the events. Two videotapes feature documentaries of the disaster. The History Channel documentary, "Eyes of Texas" (Houston KHOU-TV) segment and two Houston KTRC-TV News Channel 13 segments include first accounts from survivors, including Robert Morris and William Lane. 
Scope and Contents
The Kelley Industries Inc. business records reflect the daily business of this Houston based corporation from 1936-1986, from the perspective of Edward Kelley, Jr., President and CEO from 1959-1981. Series include: Series I: Corporate office files, 1959-1986 and Series II: Financial reports, 1936-1985.
Scope and Contents
This is a collection of 31 letters in one folder, dated variously between 1882-1913, regarding the troubles in Macedonia, written to A. G. Symonds and others of the National Reform Union; letters are from Noel Buxton, G.O. Trevelyan, J. Biggar, Gladstone, Goldwin Smith, Lord Hugh Cecil, the Bishop of London ("deplorable state of things in Macedonia"); Montagu Butler, Earl Grey ("I fear that separate action of the British Government alone would be useless or worse"), R.B. Haldane ("public opinion is apathetic"), Drummond Wolff ("We are bound by our action in 1878 to secure the well-being and the freedom of the Christian and Non-Muslim populations of Turkey"), Hensley Henson, James Bryce, M. Javid, Turkish Statesman; The Archbishop of Canterbury; Randall Davidson (to the Bishop of Worcester condemning the outrages in the Balkans).
This collection contains records reflecting the daily business of the Rice University Office of Enrollment, including expense reports for faculty travel and for department spending, application records from potential faculty and graduate students, and documentation on incoming students.
This collection contains videos by or about the Smalley Institute and about Richard Smalley, co-winner of the Nobel Prize in Chemistry. Videotapes are in VHS and Beta format. The collection also includes papers of Wade Adams during his tenure as Director of the Smalley Institute; information on nanotechnology initiatives and proposals of the Smalley Institute and others; records of staff participation in nanotechnology conferences; and administrative records of the institute. These materials include correspondence, various publications, and some financial records.
Dr. David Tomanek, Professor of Physics, Michigan State University, "Success Story of Bucky Balls and Nanotubes," n.d. (2 DVDs); Dr. Wade Adams, Director, Smalley Institute for Nanoscience and Technology, "The Vision of Richard E. Smalley: Nanotechnology in Energy, Be a Scientist - Save the World," n.d. (2 DVDs)
Scientific footage of an experiment sent to a colleague, n.d.;
B-roll footage of microscope views from the cutting of the Nanorope that led to the explosion, n.d.;
Computer Graphics, n.d.
Amazing Science (The Learning Channel) with a section on Nanotechnology, October 6, 1998;
Richard Smalley - Rehearsal for a presentation, May 21, 1995
Otto Koehler, IWF distribution, 1939;
Nederland Omroeproduktie Bedrijf nv, Sptember 29, 1998;
BBC Documentary on the Discovery of Fullerenes, n.d.
CNST Groundbreaking, Computer/TEM Views: SWNT Ropes, n.d.;
Sequence for Phys. Rev. Letter 76, 2511 NCSU Physics Department, 1996;
America's Investment in the Future, March 2001;
Nanotopia - BBC/Learning Channel, October 31, 1995
Nobel Prize Winners, December 19, 1996;
Chemistry Award, December 8, 1996;
Smalley and Curl Awarded Nobel Prize, October 9-19, 1996;
Welch Award, October 1992;
Nanotube Fluorescence, August 2, 2002;
White Nanotube, n.d.;
Black Nanotube, n.d.;
Destroyer Grid, n.d.;
Destroyer Dime, n.d.;
Repeating Sequence to Accompany Phys Rev Lett 76 2511, 1996
Rice Today, 1977;
Rice: Leading the New Century, 2003;
25th Anniversary of the School of Social Sciences, 2004;
Small is Big at Rice: The World's Largest Nanotube Model, 2005;
John Boles Lecture: Lovett to Leebron, 2005
This material reflects the multifacted career of computer science pioneer Ken Kennedy, of Rice University. It includes correspondence, notes, reports, research materials, drafts of papers and presentations, meeting minutes, publications, appointment books, awards and more. The materials document Kennedy's work with various centers such as Center for Research on Parallel Computing, committees he served on, the Rice Computational Science Depart, his teaching career, research, publications and awards.
Digital contents of laptop owned by Ken Kennedy. Materials were transferred to Woodson Research Center in 2007.
The Dean of Engineering Records covers the years 1951 to 2011 for the Engineering School at Rice Univeristy in Houston, Texas. The records include the papers of several deans and staff. Topics include academics, research projects, faculty, and general administration. This collections contains 83 boxes.
This series contains a selection of items labeled "General" files by the office staff of the Dean of Engineering.
The sub series contains papers related to the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology, known as ABET.
The sub series contains papers related to assessments of teaching and learning at Rice University.
The sub series contains papers related to Sydney Burrus, dean of engineering.
Lecturer Emeritus on Electrical and Computer Engineering. Hardy Bourland came to Rice in 1961 from General Dynamics, where he was a senior aero systems engineer. A registered professional engineer, Bourland has served the university in several capacities--as executive director of the Rice Engineering Design and Development Institute, as assistant to the dean for student development and as associate director of the Biomedical Engineering Laboratory. (B.S., 1955 Texas Technological College; S.M.E.E., 1957, Massachusetts Institute of Technology).)
This sub series contains administrative files for terminated faculty. Reasons for termination include lack of funding, failure to attain tenure, resignation, disciplinary action or death.
The sub series contains papers related to REDDI Proposals and the School of Engineering's departmental correspondence.
The series contains papers related to the budget for the School of Engineering.
The series contains papers related to Michael Carroll, Dean of Engineering.
The sub series contains papers related to the American Society for Engineering Education, known as ASEE.
The series contains papers related to the American Board of Clinical Engineers, known as ABCE.
The sub series contains papers related to the advisory council for the School of Engineering.
The sub series contains papers related to programs and correspondence regarding minority students.
The sub series contains papers related to proposals for the School of Engineering up to the year 1991.
The series contains papers related to the Computational Engineering Building, also known as Duncan Hall.
The sub series contains papers related to scholarships available to students of the School of Engineering.
The series contains papers related to the corporate affiliates of the School of Engineering.
The series contains various brochures, publications, and photos from the School of Engineering.
The volume contains the productions of the Sisterhood of the Gossip Society of Gloucester, England. The author is unknown, but goes by the nom de plume "Penelope Placid." The entire work is purportedly a product of these women's meetings; more likely, it is the work of one woman satirizing the situation of elderly spinsters whom society considered to be gossips in nineteenth century England. Among the daily entries are moral lessons, small observations, anecdotes, and tales all told by members of the society. 
Scope and Contents of the Papers
The account book contains an alphabetical listing of Dr. Cochran's medical patients in Alabama, followed by individual records of visits and accounts. Patients' addresses or occupations are often given as are the methods of payment (cash, services, goods, etc.). Also included is a promissory note dated 18 July 1877, from Eagle Lake, Texas, for $100.00 from J.B. Armstrong, for medical attention given his family in Mobile, 1874-1875.
Scope and Contents of the Papers
This bound volume of photocopies of the original guest book includes the names and comments of many guests who visited Miramichi, near Houston in Clear Lake, Texas, on various weekends and holidays. The book also includes photographs of the house, newspaper clippings regarding buried treasure myths in the area, an introduction and short history of the house by E.A. Peden, a floorplan of the house, and various diary entries by Mrs. E.A. Peden. Also included are several drawings of the handprints of young children such as Stella Peden, Stella Masterson, and Laura Kirkland. E.A. Peden also includes at the beginning of the book the names and comments of visitors that he found carved into the walls when he purchased the home, some dating back to 1902.
This collection contains correspondence from Gertrude Maurin with Dr. Joseph Banks Rhine, Dr. Louisa E. Rhine, Dr. Marie Higbee Avery, and other individuals connected with the Duke University Parapsychology Laboratory, the Institute for Parapsychology, and the Foundation for Research on the Nature of Man in Durham, North Carolina. Most of the correspondence is incoming, although a few manuscript drafts of outgoing letters exist. Generally, the correspondence concerns Miss Maurin's support of the institutions. Also included are letters from her attorney and bankers.
This collection consists of research materials compiled by William Martin, Rice University professor of sociology, during the course of his research on the Christian religious right in the United States, as well as fundamentalists, fundamentalist education, evangelists such as Billy Graham, and other aspects of conservative Christian organizations. The materials consists of correspondence, notes, videos, transcriptions of video interviews, pamphlets, and books. Oral history interviews on videotape and transcribed into print form make just over half of the collection. The video was recorded by Lumiere Productions in New York City in 1995 - January 1996, and transcribed primarily by Wordprint Studios largely as research material for Martin's book With God on Our Side.
Interview tapes beginning with numbers 999 generally do have transcripts. See boxes 73-76 for the names of persons interviewed and their tape numbers.
Expert in fundraising through direct mail and other methods. Houston-based. Was once elected head of Southern Baptist Pastors Conference, but did not serve after being accused of murdering his secretary, with whom he was having an affair, and her children. Evidence points to guilt. Had been chaplain of Bill Peterson's Florida football team (Florida, Florida State, Miami - not sure which). When Peterson came to Rice, Roberts came with him as a motivation coach, for one year. Died in auto accident, suspected suicide, drove under an 18 wheeler from parking spot under the overpass at 610 and 59, Houston. A fascinating man whom I got to know fairly well.
This collection contains videotapes, photographs, technical reports, and other materials associated with the operation of the Center for Research on Parallel Computation from 1985 to 1999. The bulk of the material os from 1990 to 1999. The video collection, in particular, contains items ranging from instructional lectures in complex computer science to taped spots of CRPC leaders on local and national news programs. The collection also includes newspaper and online journal clippings pertaining to various CRPC projects and brochures from many CRPC events. This collection offers a look at how the CRPC grew through the 1990s to an influential, respected position in the field of computer science.
These records reflect the administrative activities of the Rice Athletics Department and the activities of varsity athletics. Administrative records include materials such as historical, eligibility, scholarship, and participation reports, Southwest Conference meeting minutes, Student Athletic Committee records, media guides, and NCAA scorebooks. Records arranged by sport include rosters, injury reports, statistics, notes, scores, and Letterman Awards. Graphic materials arranged by format and then by sport include photographs, negatives, slides, video, film, and DVDs. Plaques are arranged by sport. Trophies remain the property of the Athletic Department.
These digitized video files consist of one master copy mp4 and one access copy available at scholarship.rice.edu. Black and white silent film footage featuring 17 minutes of some of the 1937 football game of William M. Rice Institute vs University of Colorado and part of the 1938 Cotton Bowl football game. Original resource is a black and white video.
Contents include: mp4 files of the fottball game.
These digitized video files consist of one master copy mp4 and one access copy available at scholarship.rice.edu. Color silent film footage by Bob Bailey Studio featuring 35 minutes, 38 seconds of the football game played between the William M. Rice Institute and the University of Arkansas on November 5, 1949. Views of the Rice campus and downtown Houston can be seen in the background. Original resource is a color video.
These digitized video files consist of one master copy mp4 and one access copy available at scholarship.rice.edu. Black and white silent film footage presented by Humble Oil, featuring 37 minutes, 12 seconds of a football game played between The William M. Rice Institute and the United States Naval Academy on October 13, 1951. There are scenes from the bleachers and of the teams warming up on the field before the game starts. Two men are seen shaking hands and talking after the game is over. Original resource is a black and white video.
These digitized video files consist of one master copy mp4 and one access copy available at scholarship.rice.edu. Color voiced film footage from Humble Oil and Refining Company, featuring 23 minutes of the 1953 Southwest Conference highlights of William M. Rice Institute, University of Texas, Baylor University, Southern Methodist University, University of Arkansas, Texas A and M University and Texas Christian University. Original resource is a color video.
Formats:DVD, VHS
These digitized video files consist of one master copy mp4 and one access copy mp4.
These digitized video files consist of one master copy mp4 and one access copy available at scholarship.rice.edu. Black and white silent film footage filmed by Walter Scott and produced by Bob Bailey Studio, Houston Texas featuring 48 minutes, 28 seconds of the annual Cotton Bowl Football Classic played between the William M. Rice Institute and the United States Naval Academy on January 1, 1958, in Dallas Texas. Original resource is a black and white video.
Formats:DVD, VHS
These digitized video files consist of one master copy mp4 and one access copy available at scholarship.rice.edu. Color silent film footage featuring 31 minutes of the 1958 William M. Rice Institute vs Louisiana State University football game. Original resource is a color video.
These digitized video files consist of one master copy mp4 and one access copy available at scholarship.rice.edu. The first part of this video features black and white silent film footage by Bob Bailey Studio of the 1958 Cotton Bowl game played by the William M. Rice Institute and the United States Naval Academy. The second part of the video which starts at the 00:43:45 time mark features highlights from the 1958 Southwest Conference football games in color and with sound. This portion of the tape is presented by Humble Oil and Refining Company and is narrated by sportscaster Kern Tips. Original resource is a partially black and white, partially color, video.
Contents include: DVD vob master and mp4 of the Rice Owls football game against LSU.
These digitized video files consist of one master copy mp4 and one access copy available at scholarship.rice.edu. Color silent film footage featuring 32 minutes of most of the 1962 Rice University vs Texas Tech University football game. Missing 1st quarter. Original resource is a color video.
Formats:DVD, VHS
These digitized video files consist of one master copy mp4 and one access copy available at scholarship.rice.edu. Color voiced film footage of Humble Oil and Refining Company, featuring 30 minutes of 1968 Southwest Conference football game highlights of University of Arkansas, University of Texas, Southern Methodist University, Texas Tech University, Baylor University, Texas A and M University, Texas Christian University and Rice University. Original resource is a color video.
Formats:Beta, DVD, VHS
These digitized video files consist of one master copy mp4 and one access copy available at scholarship.rice.edu. Color voiced film footage by Humble Oil and Refining Company, featuring 28 minutes of 1969 Southwest Conference Football highlights from games played by Rice University, Texas A and M University, Texas Christian University, Texas Tech University, University of Texas, Baylor University, Southern Methodist University and University of Arkansas. Original resource is a color video.
These digitized video files consist of one master copy mp4 and one access copy available at scholarship.rice.edu. Color voiced film footage featuring 1 hour and 18 minutes of Rice University football highlights between 1972 thru 1975. Original resource is a color video.
These digitized video files consist of one master copy mp4 and one access copy available at scholarship.rice.edu. Color silent film footage featuring 2 hours and 5 minutes of the 1979 football games of Rice University vs Tulane University, Rice University vs Lamar University and Rice University vs Texas Tech University. Original resource is a color video.
These digitized video files consist of one master copy mp4 and one access copy available at scholarship.rice.edu. Color silent film footage featuring 1 hour and 38 minutes showing portions of the 1987 football games of Rice University vs. Arkansas, Rive University vs. Baylor University and Rice University vs University of Houston. Original resource is a color video.
These digitized video files consist of one master copy mp4 and one access copy available at scholarship.rice.edu. Color voiced film footage featuring 46 minutes of 1987 Rice University football game highlights. Original resource is a color video.
Formats: Beta, VHS
Formats: Beta, VHS
Formats: Beta, VHS
Formats: Beta, VHS
Formats: Beta, VHS, DVD
Formats: Beta, VHS (original) and DVD (created 2011)
Formats: Beta, VHS, DVD
Formats: Beta (original) and DVD (created 2011)
Formats: Beta
Formats: Beta, VHS
Formats: Beta, VHS
Formats: Beta
Formats: Beta, CD, VHS
Formats: Beta, CD, VHS
Formats: Beta
These digital objects are digitized versions of the VHS. UA0155aip_005 is a master file avi. UA0155aip_006 is an access copy mp4.
These digital objects are digitized versions of the VHS. UA0155aip_007 is a master file avi. UA0155aip_008 is an access copy mp4.
These digital objects are digitized versions of the VHS. UA0155aip_003 is a master file avi. UA0155aip_004 is an access copy mp4.
These digital objects are digitized versions of the VHS. UA0155aip_001 is a master file avi. UA0155aip_002 is an access copy mp4.
These digital objects are digitized versions of the VHS. UA0155aip_009 is a master file avi. UA0155aip_010 is an access copy mp4.
These digital objects are digitized versions of the VHS. UA0155aip_011 is a master file avi. UA0155aip_012 is an access copy mp4.
Formats: Beta, VHS
Formats: Beta, CD, VHS
Formats: VHS
Formats: VHS
Formats: Beta, VHS
Formats: VHS
Formats: VHS
Formats: VHS, beta
Formats: Beta, VHS
Formats: Beta
Formats: Beta, VHS
Formats: Beta, VHS
Formats: Beta, VHS
Formats: Beta, VHS
Contents include: a mpg master file of the Rice v. SMU game and an access copy mp4.
Contents include: a mpg master file of the WAC Hawaii v. Rice game and an mp4 access copy.
Content includes: a master mpg of Lamar v. Rice and an access copy mp4.
Formats: Beta, VHS
Contents include: a mpg master file of the Rice v. SMU game and an access copy mp4.
Contents include: a mpg master file of the Rice v. Tulsa game and an mp4 access copy.
Contents include: a mpg master file of the Rice v. ULL game and an access mp4.
Formats: Beta, CD, VHS
Formats: Beta, CD, VHS
Formats: Beta, VHS
Formats: Beta, VHS
These digitized video files consist of one master copy mp4 and one access copy available at scholarship.rice.edu. Color film produced by ESPN of the NCAA Indoor Championships held at the Carrier Dome Stadium in Syracuse New York, March 8-9, 1985. The film is just under two hours and features Rice students Regina Cavanaugh, Tanya McIntosh, Gawain Guy, Kattrice Harris, Tommy Welch and Monique Miller competing in various track and field events. Original resource is a color video.
Formats: Beta, VHS
These digitized video files consist of one master copy mp4 and one access copy available at scholarship.rice.edu. Color voiced film footage featuring 26 minutes of Rice University's football coach Jess Neely's last game and interview. Original resource is a color video.
Formats: Cassettes, XBR
Formats: Beta, CD, VHS
Series contains dvds of "Owls Insider." Epsiodes ran each week prior to a Rice football game and featured segments with head coach David Bailiff and other Rice Athletics coaches and players.
This is a handwritten letter dated May 13, 1743 and signed by J. H. Bastide. The letter is addressed to an "My Lord Duke." Bastide, self-described as "the second Lieutenant in General Cornwallis's regiment," states that he has received advice that he is to be exchanged from his regiment to one in Nova Scotia. He does not wish to be transferred and begs leave to resign his Lieutenancy to his son or permission to sell it in order to provide some security for his family. This letter consist of one sheet of paper measuring 36.5 cm by 22 cm.
Records reflecting the daily business of the Rice University Dean of Undergraduates, 1965-2004. Main groupings include college courses, university council, committees, surveys, college information including budgets.
This photocopy of Robert Crain's original letter to the public describes his statement of the events that occurred during a gunfight on September 19, 1827. Crain's statement was written in response to a newspaper article that he claimed contained false information, and this statement was his way of telling his side of the story. The statement was published in the "Natchez-Ariel Extra" on October 19, 1827. The location of the original letter is unknown.
This collection consists of several hundred typed pages and many photographs, deals with the early immigration of Germans into Texas (ca. 1835-1860). Clyde H. Porter of Kansas City, Missouri collected the material and then sent about a dozen copies of his work to various libraries and individuals. Oswald Mueller of Houston received the material and donated this collection to Rice University. The main portion of the material focuses on the families of Dresel and Spiess. Gustav Dresel (1818-1848) came to Texas in 1837, and while in Galveston, served as business agent of the Society for the Protection of German Immigrants into Texas. His brother Julius (1816-1891) immigrated to Texas in the fall of 1848 and settled near Sisterdale on the Guadalupe River. This collection contains an English translation of his "Sisterdale Diary." In this diary, Julius Dresel describes his immigration from Germany to Texas, his life as a farmer, and several encounters with Indians. The collection contains both a notebook containing some of Hermann Spiess' personal papers and a group of interesting letters sent to his family in Germany. In his personal papers, he describes his appointment as General Commissioner of the Adelsverein (Association of Noblemen) in Texas, as well as the monetary and organizational difficulties that this association faced. He goes on to describe a gunfight as well as several court trials he was involved in, all regarding the rightful ownership and occupation of Nassau Plantation in Fayette County. In his letters to his family in Germany he describes the land, climate, growing conditions, and community of New Braunfels. Spiess writes often to his sister, telling her how important education is for her children, and also expressing his personal opinions regarding American and German politics and Christianity. The collection also contains letters from Ernst and Ida Kapp, settlers of Sisterdale, a company contract of the "German Colonization Company," and numerous photographs of people mentioned throughout the papers. 
This Collection contains 26 items representing fragments of William Motherwell's writings from the later years of his life. There appears to be no overall uniting theme to the collection other than the frequent mention of Burns in both the notes and the letters to A. Fullerton (a Glasgow publisher). The items in this collection are probably drawn from the period 1833-1834.
This collection consists of owl prints and images. The collection includes around 75 images, all of which appear to be watercolored prints signed by M. Cole. Each print is 9.25 inches wide by 11.25 inches long, printed on a stiff, high-quality paper with deckled edges.
The collection is primarily composed of large bound volumes dating from 1873 to 1959. It also contains some papers removed from their binding and stored in folders and boxes. It contains daybooks, journals, monthly reports, business ledgers, account books, registers, balance sheets, invoices, inventories, catalogs, city sales records, and lists of shipments received.
This collection consists of an assortment of letters and papers acquired over a period of time and kept together. The collection consists of folders containing correspondence to and from historicaland literary figures (Thomas Carlyle, Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, Jose de San Martin, George Bernard Shaw, Henry David Thoreau, William Wordsworth, and others). The largest part of the collection is correspondence of nineteenth century literary figures. Correspondents include St. John Arthur Adcock, Carl Ahrendt, Matthew Arnold, Pierre Augustine Beaumarchais, Robert Williams Buchanan, Anne Isabella Byron, William Samuel Cardell, Thomas Carlyle, Robert William Chapman, Christopher Pearse Cranch, Chauncey Mitchell Depew, Sir Edward Dering, Douglas Southall Freeman, John Galt, Sir John Hart, S.C. Kiang, William H. Lambert, Gottfried Wilhelm Liebniz, Henry Mackenzie, George Moore, Sir John Moore, John Rickards Mozley, Munster-Ledenburg, Thomas Murray, Sir Joseph Noel Paton, Joseph Pennell, John Pintard, Pierre Piquery, Jose de San Martin, James Sayers, George Bernard Shaw, Charles Henry Smith, Robert Southey, A.W. Standing, William Alfred Tattersall, Henry David Thoreau, John R. Vancourt, Henry Van Dyke, Agnes Wakefield, George Parker Winship, Humbert Wolfe, William Wordsworth, Charlotte Mary Younge and others.
This collection consists of 193 letters written to a Long Island attorney, Samuel H. Gardiner, Esq. of Sag Harbor and New York City. The letters give a good picture of the activities of a counselor at law of that period. The majority of the letters concern legal matters; however, some relate to politics, touching on the election campaigns of 1844 and 1848.
This collection contains the editorial files of this journal during the editorship of Alexander J. Dessler (Space Science Dept., Rice University). It includes manuscripts of articles, referees' reports, correspondence, office files, and more. This journal sought to publish "short, urgent communications of high scientific quality in the field of geophysics" and papers submitted were read by several highly-qualified scientists who then accepted the paper for publication, remitted it to the author(s) for editing, or simply rejected it. The collection contains separate files for each entry submitted, all correspondence with authors, and papers that were both accepted and rejected.
The Keith McGee papers consist of correspondence, publications, and other material collected while working on the "Skylab Student Project" at the Johnson Space Center in 1973. The collection includes photos, typed correspondence, printed material, and films.
This collection contains papers, articles, theses and "An Unorthodox Diary", which includes his perspective on the controversy over the brief presidency of Bill Masterson at Rice University, 1969, among many other topics. Also included in the collection are files regarding Classics courses taught by Dr. Levin at several universities as well as research notes on subjects in Classics. Additionally, there are two binders that contain memos and newsclippings related to events at Rice in the 1960s.
This collection contains articles and book reviews submitted to the publication "Transactions of the American Geophysical Union." Dr. Patricia Reiff served as editor of this publication from 1985-1989, and the collection also contains office records, correspondence, SPR news, covers and meeting reports as they relate to her editorship of this publication.
This is a collection of 64 letters addressed to Goddard and Wood. Notable correspondents include Edwin Lester Arnold, F.C. Burnand, Hall Caine, Sir F. Carruthers Goulde, Lillie Langtry, Clotilde Graves and Gertrude Kingston. Most of the correspondence pertains to the periodicals and specific articles within them.
The correspondence includes letters and post cards from noted liberals of the period in Great Britain. Most are written to the Secretary of the Committee, Lewis Sergeant. Sergeant was on the editorial staff of The Daily Chronicle and was particularly interested in the politics and literature of modern Greece. Correspondents include Lord Rosebery, Herbert Chamberlain, Sir C.W. Dilke, Sir J. Bryce, Leveson Gower (regarding the Memorial from the Thessalians of Athens), Bishop of Manchester, Max Muller, Sir William Watson, L.H. Courtney, J.P. Mahaffy, Roden Noel, Ernest Myers, Karl Blind (regarding Russia's renewed push toward Constantinople), and G.A. Sala.
This letter from Sir Richard John Strachan was sent to Commodore Sir William Cornwallis, his squadron commander in the East Indies describing his role in the action against the French frigate Resolue off Pondecherry, which resulted in her capture. The Résolue was an Iphigénie class 32-gun frigate of the French Navy.
1 letter, 2 quarto leaves, from Sir Richard John Strachan to Sir William Cornwallis.
Sir Francis Cowley Burnand was the editor of "Punch" magazine. His correspondence was directed to the people he worked with and usually concerned the literary material he dealt with. Correspondents include Sir Henry Thompson, the surgeon; Sir F. Carruthers Gould, Mrs. Merivale, Gerald Christy the lecture agent, and others. The letters, which span most of his working life, dealt with Roman Catholicism, Daphne du Maurier, the "Punch" cartoon titled "Dropping the Pilot", Sir Francis' much protested forced "Punch," his plays and their performances, his lectures, life and career.
Some items had no indication of date or addressee. In such cases, the first few words of text or return address, if any,is given for identification.
This collection consists of five items: an original copyright document for Chester's book "Greenwood Cemetery and Other Poems", a handwritten poem entitled "To Georgie", an undated leaflet of several printed poems, and two letters of a personal nature from correspondents in Blackheath, South Carolina.
While the letters are on a number of different topics, many deal with the Sterling Debenture Corporation and stock offerings in the American Telegraphone Corporation. The corporation was founded in 1903 to manufacture the Telegraphone, a magnetic sound recording device invented by Danish engineer Valdemar Poulson. Although several hundred machines were bought by curious scientists, the product was not a commercial success.
The letters are legal in nature, and apparently deal with various lawsuits brought by or against Baldwin concerning land and contracts. Several of the letters concern Baldwin's part in the estate of F.H. Petrie and whether or not Baldwin was guardian to certain relatives of Petrie. Other letters deal with cases regarding land titles in various surveys. The last letter in the collection was sent to Baldwin from a lawyer requesting immediate payment for fees and court costs for Dunlap vs. Pattison (in which Baldwin was interested) and is accompanied by court statements.
This collection contains two short handwritten poems by Samuel Minturn Peck titled "Foreboding" and "At the End."
This collection consists of a letter written by von Bauernfeld to an unknown correspondent and a handwritten poem. Both items are written in German.
This is a 426-page handwritten newspaper, published from September-January, 1866-1867 on board the British troop ship Sussex during her maiden voyage from Kingstown, Ireland to Kurrachee, India [Karachi, Pakistan]. It contains 15 weekly issues, an introduction, 36 illustrations (pen and ink sketches) and indices to the issues and the illustrations.
This collection consists of letters and documents. Two of the letters were written from Mexico in 1847. Many of the documents concern the circumstances of his death, the disappearance of a large sum of cash from his person, and the money owed to the landlord of the Palmetto House where he was staying. There are also letters to the doctor who treated him and to the undertaker. Other correspondence concern debts owed by the major for military equipment, etc. There are also letters from his widow endeavoring to secure a military pension, in which she finally succeeded, and two House of Representatives bills concerning the pension.
The collection consists of Ballew's workpapers, correspondence, minutes, and news clippings relating to the Houston-Harris County Economic Opportunity Organization.
The papers consist of three handwritten short essays, eacah pasted into a bound in full tan calf folio volume: "The Borderland of Dreams" is "a scientific dissertation on the faculty of sleep and the art of going to sleep"; "Metropolitan Conveyances" discusses and criticizes "the Underground Railway and other Metropolitan conveyances" comparing them with "similar institutions in other cities of Europe"; "My Lady Jemimah…" is the story of the courtship and marriage of Lady Jemimah, daughter of Lord Sandwich, and Philip Carteret, son of Sir George Carteret, "reconstructed from sundry notes in the Diary of Samuel Pepys who was apparently largely instrumental in arranging the marriage."
This volume includes a 5-page description, handwritten by Dumas, of an expedition in 1862 that led General Giuseppe Garibaldi unknowingly into the hands of Italian troops at Aspromonte, where he was taken prisoner along with his sons. It details how the unnamed conspirators pretended to get lost, leading Garibaldi to a cabin where he was captured. The remainder of the volume consists of a 4-page typed translation into English.
This collection contains the papers of Harold Albert Wilson who was the first professor of physics at Rice Institute. Wilson was best known for his work on flames which continued to be his primary interest throughout his life. Included are: Wilson's scientific papers (off-prints only); manuscript of bibliography of the H. A. Wilson scientific papers; "Catalogue of Apparatus," photographs, certificates, awards, news clippings and letters to Norman Hurd Ricker, first person to hold three Rice degrees.
Joan Wilson daughter of H.A. Wilson scrapbook for her senior year in high school at San Jacinto High School and attendance at St. Mary's School and Junior College in Raleigh, North Carolina.
This collection contains a handwritten and signed letter, written January 5, 1802 and addressed to Samuel Mitchell, a member of the U.S. Congress, concerning publication of Priestley's paper on "galvanism" to appear in the Medical Repository. Additionally, Priestly writes of problems in obtaining philosophical materials from his bookseller in London, and asks the congressman about living conditions in Washington. A typewritten transcript of the letter is included.
This collection consists of 11 letters, written between the years 1911 and 1914, from John Galsworthy to Professor William Sadler. The identity of the latter figure remains unknown. The letters usually contain information regarding travel plans and arrangements for meeting each other. Several of the letters comment on current events, including Galsworthy's response to Sadler on the outbreak of World War I.
This collection consists of a bound typescript of the book "The American Tory", which is the study of the Loyalists (or "Tories") of the American Revolution. The author notes that the history of the Tories remains somewhat forgotten as a result of their defeat in the war; however, the author seeks to examine the "depth of their quarrel with their fellow Americans and the totality of their defeat." This book contains many handwritten editorial notes and marks. The typescript is 216 pages in length, not including a short preface at the beginning and an index at the end.
One annotated typescript with the following sections:
The majority of this collection consists of Kolenda's own writing (notes, drafts, source material). The next largest group consists of source material only on four philosophers (Peirce, Rorty, Ryle and Wittgenstein). There is a small quantity of Kolenda correspondence, course material, and Will Rice College material, as well as some National Endowment for the Humanities material. These papers came from Kolenda's Fondren Library study and probably represent projects in progress at the time of his death (Dec. 5, 1991).
This collection contains the personal and academic papers of Houston architect O. Jack Mitchell. Included in the collection are Mitchell's consulting projects, Houston organizations projects, numerous slides of cities around the world, film reels of lectures, and various other architectural materials.
This collection consists of astronomer Albert Van Helden's academic papers and encompass his work with various professional organizations, as well as with Rice University related committees and projects.
This collection contains educational materials including manuscripts and visuals for books on construction methods. Also included are "A Walking Tour of Rice University" glass plate negatives (c. 1912-1950) given to Morehead by William Ward Watkin [presumably taken by an employee of Cram, Goodhue and Ferguson and/or the photographer Schleuter] for use in Morehead's construction class. The glass slides show the construction of several buildings at Rice, including Lovett Hall, the physics building, the mechanical laboratory, power house, the chemistry building, and the football stadium. The collection also contains many photographs and slides of buildings and unique architecture at Rice.
This collection consists of notes on and drafts of Julian Huxley's "Morphism and Evolution" as well as research materials and correspondence related to his work. The first folder includes several typed drafts of the paper interspersed with handwritten notes. The second folder includes research materials in the form of offprints. The third folder contains correspondence in chronological order, dated mostly in 1955. Correspondents include fellow biologists and scientists Ernst Mayr, J.H. Burnett, Jens Clausen, J.W. Gregor, Paul Freeman, F.S. Russell, P.A. Buxton, William Rowan, Ian Aird, B.P. Uvarov, Noel Hynes, A.S. Sturtevant, H. Gruneberg, Dorothy Jackson, and Kennedy McWhirter.
A collection of theater programs mainly from Houston, Texas, but also including New York, London, Dallas, and Fort Worth, collected by Ed Oppenheimer.
This collection contains the professional papers of Dr. Lee P. Brown. The papers reflect his professional career as Mayor of Houston (1998-2004), Director of the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (1993-1995), New York City Police Commissioner (1990-1992), Police Chief of Houston, Texas (1982-1990), and as Public Safety Commissioner of Atlanta, Georgia (1978-1982). Brown also served at Rice University as Herbert Autrey Visiting Scholar at the School of Social Sciences, Radaslav A. Tsanoff Professor of Public Affairs in the Department of Sociology, and as a scholar at the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy. Also included in the collection are newsclips, photographs, awards and honors.
The materials contained within this drawer include: two autographed Nelson Mandela posters, original political cartoons by Clyde Peterson, campaign materials, and an autographed newspaper clipping from former Isreali Prime Minister Shimon Peres.
This collection contains various items relating to Julian Huxley, including photographs of Huxley, a signed letter, handwritten notes, and a handwritten manuscript of The Development of Life. Also included in the collection is a book review (of a book with the forward written by Huxley), an invitation to a dinner in honor of Huxley, and a photocopy of a manuscript fragment.
A collection of compact discs contains interviews with a wide variety of individuals from
various neighborhoods around Houston, TX as part of Houston Arts and Media's Neighbor to
Neighbor project. These interviews were conducted in order to compile a collection of oral
histories regarding historical neighborhood life around Houston. This collection contains
both an MP3 version of the interview, as well as a CDA formatted version. In total, Houston
Arts and Media donated about 50 hours of interview digital recordings. At this time these
recordings have not been transcribed.
This collection consists of a series of letters and a map annotated by Mr. Atwood concerning his archaeological findings in the Galveston Bay area. In these letters, Mr. Atwood relates his knowledge of aboriginal spoil banks and other archaeological findings to Hardin Craig Jr. (librarian at Fondren Library) as well as H. A. Bernard of Shell Development Company and a Forest Supervisor in Louisiana. Also included in the collection is a map covered in marks which Mr. Atwood reveals in his letters to be Indian measurements, and that he has discovered that there was much more Indian activity in the area than previously thought by archaeologists. The area described is Stephen Creek. Stephen Creek is at the junction of State Highway 156 and Farm Road 224 on Lake Livingston, seventy-five miles north of Houston in northeastern San Jacinto County. The nearby creek was named after Miles G. Stephen, a Georgia native who moved to the area after having first lived in what would become Polk County. Other early settlers who moved to the area before 1842 included Jim Hopkins, Arnett Harrell, and Dan Sellers. Most residents were small farmers who grew cotton and corn and raised hogs. The Stephen Creek post office opened in 1915 and was closed in 1954. The community's population was estimated to be twenty through the early 1960s. Since the completion of Lake Livingston Stephen Creek has grown. Still more residents live in the Holiday Shore development, which offers recreational opportunities on the lake. In 1990 the population of Stephen Creek was 135.
Handbook of Texas Online, s.v. "Stephen Creek, Texas," http://www.tshaonline.org/handbook/online/articles/SS/hns82.html (accessed April 8, 2009).
Correspondence from Rice Institute student Otto Eisenlohr to his high school sweetheart and eventual wife, Gainor Roberts, regarding student life, academics and athletics at Rice Institute, and contemporary newsclippings and photographs. Topics include Rice during the First World War, Houston from 1915-1921, science at Rice Institute, hazing of freshmen by upperclassmen, secret societies on campus, popular movies, dances, Rice football, basketball, and baseball, and ROTC activities during the first World War.
This collection consists of an album that contains 48 items from World War I, mainly Christmas cards issued by regiments. Also included are a few postcards, a German shoulder-strap, and a leaf of laurel picked outside of Cloth Hall, Ypres, January 12, 1918.
This collection consists of a 161-page handwritten logbook, penned (probably) by William Ward, whose name appears on the front pastedown endpaper. The majority of entries are Orders of the Day, letters, memoranda, and accounts of expenditures. Each entry is initialed by at least three officers, some are initialed by as many as eight officers. The principal officers are mostly identified by their initials in this logbook. Thomas Kempthorne, J. Acworth, J. Burchett and Christian Tilson are identified by full name.
Diary is a bound volume with loose boards, 67 leaves of sketches, watercolors and poetry. The diary includes an itinerary of the voyage of the HMS Albion in the East Indies 1803-1805, and several pages of poetry, but is primarily a series of sketches of ships, shore views, many in color, including drawings of flowers.
This collection contains notes and printed material largely related to Minter's study of the youth movement in the Berkeley, California area, including the resulting publication by Minter titled Youth Alive (folder 1). Also included is some additional material on Christian movements in the Houston area related to Minter's position as pastor of the University Presbyterian Church in Houston. A great deal of the printed ephemera reflects the young adult "counter culture" of the late 1960s and early 1970s.
Harrie Thomas Lindeberg architectural drawings collection includes 85 architectural drawings on vellum and a framed rending of the Hugo V. Neuhaus residence, located in the Shadyside area of Houston, Texas.
This collection contains memorabilia from the Ye Old College Inn. It consists of photographs, a recipe book and a scrapbook from the Ye Old College Inn. The photographs are those taken of Rice college teams and athletes as early as 1915 and they include baseball, basketball, cross-country, football, and track athletes. The recipe book was put together by Ernie Coker who was one of the owners of the Ye Old College Inn. The scrapbook contains photos and news articles pertaining to Owl athletes and their achievements.
Photographs that are not dated but estimated as taken in the late 1910's, early 1920's. Candid photos of football games against Southern Methodist University and team practices. Photograph of Tony Bell securing the first touchdown ever made against University of Texas, Oct. 17, 1917. Photograph of Owl athletes on the line practicing: Tony Bell, Fred Boetcher, Hal Heath, Eddie Dyer, Van Brown, Bo Pollard, Giant Duggan, Emmett McFarland, Lee Vilbig, Miller Alexander, and Ed Deprato, 1918. Posed photographs of Frank Gerlach, Eddie Dyer, Tony Bell, Fred Boetcher, Red Tatum, Nepos Harlan, Emmett McFarland, Miller Alexander, Geo Powell, Ed Deprato, and "Heavy" Underwood, circa 1918.
Includes photographs of Gerald Weatherly and "Froggy" Williams, John Crow, Charley Malmberg and Weldon Humble (1946), Kozze Johnson, Bill Howton, Dickie Morgle, Don Rhoden.
Contains posed team photographs of Owl football teams. There are two team photographs taken in 1915, three in 1916, three in 1917 and two in 1918.
Contains posed team photographs Owl football teams. There is one team photograph taken in 1921, are two in 1922, and three in 1923.
Contains posed team photographs of Owl football teams. There are two taken in 1924, one photograph of the 1925 Varsity Team, one photograph of the 1926 and 1929 teams, and one of each of the 1950-1954 and 1957 teams.
These include a photograph of Jim Thorpe given to George Martin in 1933, Frank Goss and Preacher Lindsey (date unknown), a group photograph with Jess Neeley and Bill Wallace, the rest of the photographs are of unidentified.
Photographs include group photographs of all the Rice athletic coaches of 1923, football coaches circa 1930's, the Southwest Conference Representatives which includes Jess Neely, and The Rice Institute Athletic Coaching Staff circa 1950's. Individual photographs include those of Coach John Nicholson (date unknown), and Coach Ernie Hjertberg with athlete Fred Stancliff (date unknown). Two photographs of coaches signing the "Coaches Table" of the Ye Old College Inn, circa 1950's. The rest of the photographs are unnamed.
Photographs contain posed team photographs in 1915, 1919, 1922, 1924, 1926, 1929 and not dated. There are also candid photographs of team practices, one photograph of Jack Pollard and Howard Eiser, and a signed photograph of Fred Wolcott.
Business records from Spears Dairy from the date of incorporation in 1928 to 1948. Records consist mostly of general ledgers, such as accounts receivable, accounts payable and payroll for Spears Dairy operations in several towns in Texas, inlcuding Beaumont, Giddings, La Grange, Lufkin, Port Arthur, Rosenberg, Texas City, and others. Operations included dairy farms, ice cream stores, processing and distribution outlets. Topics include dairy farming, rural industry, rural economics.
The collection consists of photographic research materials on Houston compiled by William Lukes, architect and Rice University graduate, from 1969 through 1974. The photos were taken by Lukes in collaboration with Paul Hester, and were used in a number of publications and papers concerning the development of Houston, inventorying and cataloguing the growth of Houston neighborhoods, and recording various architectural landmarks in the Houston area during the period. Also included are student work from the Rice Media Center, and a photographic essay of anti-war protests (Viet Nam war) in Houston and at Rice. Series I of the collection includes photographs and negatives related to Houston architecture, development, and events. Series II includes photographs and negatives of Rice University and Rice students, and portfolios, papers, and photographs for architecture and photography classes taken by Lukes from 1969 through 1974. Series III includes photographs and negatives of various urban scenes, architectural details, and experiments in photographic techniques by Lukes.
This section contains photographs and negatives of Houston architecture and historical events.
This section contains photographs and negatives of Rice University, and class materials from architecture and photography classes at Rice.
This section contains photographs and negatives of various urban scenes, architectural details, and photographic techniques.
The Arthur E. Jones Architectural Records contain photographs, slides, renderings, and information about projects during his career with Lloyd and Morgan, Lloyd, Jones, and Brewer, and Jones and Fillpot. The firms' projects were primarily based in Houston. Series I includes information about the firms and administrative and project details. Series II contains images, further information, and awards for projects, and Series III are oversized material of several projects including drawings of the Astrodome. Photographers of items in the collection include Richard Payne, Bob Bailey, Balthazar Korab, and André Kertész.
photographs by Rick Gardner and Richard Payne
photographs by Rick Gardner and Richard Payne
photographs by Rick Gardner and Richard Payne
photographs by David Fisk, Paul Hester, Chas McGrath, and Richard Payne
photographs by Richard Payne
photographs by Richard Payne
photographs by Rick Gardner and Richard Payne
photographs by Richard Payne
photographs by Rick Gardner
photographs by chas McGrath
photographs by Richard Payne
photographs by Woodallen Industrial Photographers
photographs by Balthazar Korab, Richard Payne, and Jim Thomas
photographs by Chas McGrath
photographs by Richard Payne
photographs by Balthazar Korab and Richard Payne
photographs by Alexandre Georges, Harper Leiper Studios, Balthazar Korab, Milstead Photography, Richard Payne, Jim Thomas, and Woodallen Industrial Photographers
photographs by Harper Leiper Studios, Vernon R. Henrikson and Associates, and Stiles and Associates
photographs by Harper Leiper Studios and Lawless and Son
photographs by Gulf Photo, Art Meyer Photography, and Paul Peters
photographs by Al Locke
photographs by Nathaniel Lieberman
photographs by Andre Kertesz (copyright Conde Nast Publications)
photographs by Richard Payne
photographs by Paul Peters
photographs by Peter Whitney
photographs by Chas McGrath and Ed Stewart
photographs by Rick Gardner, Chas McGrath, and Ed Stewart
photographs by chas McGrath
photographs by Chas McGrath
photographs by Richard Payne
photographs by Balthazar Korab, Seawell Photography, and Ben Smusz
photographs by Bisett and Dixon, Lawless and Son, Milstead Photography, and Richard Payne
photographs by Rick Gardner
photographs by Rick Gardner
photographs by Ed Stewart
photographs by Rick Gardner
photographs by Rick Gardner and Richard Payne
photographs by Rick Gardner and Richard Payne
photographs by Richard Payne
photographs by Rick Gardner and Richard Payne
photographs by Rick Gardner and sRichard Payne
photographs by Rick Gardner
photographs by Richard Payne, Steve Rosenthal
photographs by Rick Gardner, Alexandre Georges, Balthazar Korab, and Richard Payne
photographs by Rick Gardner, Balthazar Korab, Photographic Laboratories, and Jim Thomas
photographs by Rick Gardner, Balthazar Korab, and Richard Payne
photographs by Rick Gardner, Harper Leiper Studios, and Balthazar Korab
photographs by Rick Gardner, Lawless and Son, and Richard Payne
photographs by Bob Bailey, Balthazar Korab, Ben Smusz, and Jim Thomas
photographs by Dorsey and Peters
photographs by Alexandre Georges, Harper Leiper Studios, Ed Stewart, and Jim Thomas
photographs by David Fisk, Rick Gardner, and Richard Payne
photographs by Paul Dorsey and Earl R. Gilbert
photographs by Stiles and Associates
photographs by F. Wilbur Seiders Associate Shoemake-Stiles
photographs by Foto Art Studios and F.W. Seiders
photographs by Paul Dorsey
photographs by Rick Gardner
photographs by Rick Gardner
photographs by Jack F. Laws, Art Meyer, and F. Wilbur Seiders
photographs by Gabriel Alonso
photographs by Woodallen Industrial Photographers
photographs by Marc St. Gil
photographs by Paul Dorsey
photographs by Shoemake-Stiles
photographs by Harper Leiper Studios
photographs by Alexandre Georges and Balthazar Korab
photographs by Rick Gardner
photographs by Stan Begham, Rick Gardner, and Balthazar Korab
photographs by Bob Bailey and Harper Leiper Studios
photographs by F.W. Seiders Associate Shoemake-Stiles
photographs by Joe C. Aker
photographs by W.D. Murdy
photographs by Owen Johnson (Houston Post Co.)
photographs by Jennifer M. Keiger
photographs by F. Wilbur Seiders
photographs by Earl R. Gilbert
photographs by Rick Gardner
photographs by Lawless and Son
photographs by Rick Gardner
photographs by Richard Payne
photographs by Richard Payne and Ed Stewart
photographs by Richard Payne
photographs by Lawless Houston and Richard Payne
photographs by Richard Payne
photographs by Harper Leiper Studios and George Peters
photographs by Richard Payne
photographs by Rick Gardner
photograph by The New York Times
photographs by Dorsey and Peters
photographs by Harper Leiper Studios, Balthazar Korab, and John P. Miller
photographs by Rick Gardner
photographs by Dorsey and Peters
photographs by Paul Dorsey, Dorsey and Peters, and F. Wilbur Seiders
photographs by Jack Richburg
photographs by Balthazar Korab
photographs by F.W. Seiders and Shoemake-Stiles
photographs by Ralph N. Miller
This collection contains papers related to Adams's careers in consulting, teaching recycling and writing. Also included is correspondence, membership in organizations and attendance at meetings.
The collection consists of a scrapbook of newspaper clippings by and about J.S. Mosby, a Confederate soldier, that detail his adventures in the Confederate cavalry. Also included are unfavorable clippings from local newspapers on the occasion of his visit to New England in 1886.
This collection contains a letter by Mary Webb, an English author, to Geoffrey Dearmer. The letter, thanking Dr. Dearmer for his advice regarding publishers and some of her writings, also gives a description of her cottage in Hampstead. The letter is dated March 29, but no year is given.
The collection consists of materials related to the NASA Suprathermal Ion Detector Experiment, part of the Apollo Lunar Surface Experiment Package (ALSEP), and includes documents and photographs from Apollo missions 11, 12, 14, and 15. The materials include glossy photographs from Apollo missions; publications and engineering reports; eleven color and seven black and white positive transparencies of 70 mm film; five 16mm silent films from NASA; and twelve oversize black and white print posters of the lunar surface. The collection is in good shape generally. The reports which were bound in metal acco fasteners and staples show some deterioration, and some of the rolls of 70 mm film show signs of moisture damage. The 16 mm films are in good shape; no sign of deterioration. The oversize pictures of the lunar surface are somewhat frayed on the edges.
The contents of this collection are the papers and publications of Harry Van Demark who settled in Houston in 1901. The collection specifically contains typescript and bound versions of plays and short stories as well as scrap books, articles, and poetry. There are also pamphlets, programs and tickets from plays Van Demark wrote and produced.
Miscellaneous - Includes program for Ibsen's A Doll House staged by Harry Van Demark, Dec.4, 1912. Ticket to A Regular Fellow by Harry Van Demark, July 30, 1913. Program for A Regular Fellow July 25, 1913. Invitation to a party designed by Harry Van DemarkScribs and Quibs- an amateur writer's monthly that shares stories along with news and events. There is one pamphlet, January 1898, and one article from August 1897.
There are two scrapbooks with newspaper clippings pasted inside. The Texas Navy- contains news articles and stories of the Texas Navy during the War for Texas Independence and battles fought in Texas waters during the Mexican and Civil Wars and History of the Pirates of the Gulf- which mentions the tales of Jean Lafitte. Texas Scrapbook- contains news articles and stories of Texas early day heroes such as Peter E. Bean and David Crockett as well random short stories that took place in 19th century Texas.
This collection is composed of research materials and manuscripts of Patrick J. Nicholson for his book Mr. Jim: The Biography of James Smither Abercrombie. Included are photocopies of various articles about J.S. Abercrombie, correspondence concerning Nicholson's research, notes, and typed copies of the manuscript.
This collection contains the manuscript entitled Geophysics: The Earth's Interior by Jean-Claude de Bremaecker. De Bremaecker is a Professor Emeritus of Geology at Rice.
This collection contains a bound volume of many letters of condolence to J.D. Sandefer Jr.'s children. The letters are sent by various bankers, attorneys, businessmen, and the Presidents of Baylor University, Hardin-Simmons University, and Howard Payne University. All of the letters extol Sandefer's abilities as a businessman, friend, and civic leader. This collection of letters was compiled by Sandefer's three children, who also wrote a one-page introduction.
The account book includes individual wages for officers and crews; allowances for victuals; prices of provisions to be paid to and by the Purser; various allowances and expense lists; lists of French, Dutch and Algiers fleets, including ship names and guns; as well as lists of the major Royal Navy commands, the red, white, and blue squadrons, with ships assigned to each, their commanders, guns, and names of flag officers commanding.
This collection contains a biographical sketch of Mirabeau Bonaparte Lamar written by his secretary, Edward Fontaine.
Correspondence, notes, and drafts of Dillon Anderson's book, Recollections of Eisenhower, as well as correspondence with President Eisenhower, notes, and drafts of his speeches, related to his time as National Security Advisor. Series III and IV include Anderson's personal literary works, mainly short stories and articles, and editorial correspondence.
This collection contains a letter written by John Brown to his wife. It was written from Grigsby's Bluff and gives news of the people there, in particular, their health. Grigsby's Bluff was located on the Neches River in Eastern Jefferson County. Its name was changed to Port Neches in 1901.
This collection includes photographs, certificates, news clippings, typescripts, and awards dealing for the most part with Edmund McAshan Dupree's undergraduate career at Rice Institute and his class' 25th Anniversary Reunion in 1941.
Contents include: Edmund Dupree ca. 10 years of age; Class of 1916 on Registration Day; E.M. Dupree, E.O. Lovett, et al., First commencement; E.M. Dupree as a young man; First Store of Star Electric and Engineering Co., Inc., owned by E.M. Dupree, 1921; E.M. Dupree and two unidentified men with airplane (framed June 26, 1928); E.M. Dupree and two unidentified men, sitting (framed June 26, 1928); Unidentified man with airplane (framed June 26, 1928); E.M. Dupree, E.O. Lovett, et al. at 25th anniversary of first commencemen,t 1941; E.O. Lovett Speaking at 25th Reunion, 1941; Members of First Graduating Class looking at Sallyport at 25th reunion, 1941; E.M. Dupree and other members of class at 25th reunion, 1941
The Ensemble Theatre Records incorporate the history of the general operation of the theater, including fundraising, advertising, and administrative Board records.
Manuscripts and multiple drafts with marked revisions of Westheimer's novels as well as teleplays and scripts for his television work. Also included are Houston Post newspaper columns, research, photos, and related correspondence.
This collection includes three typed manuscriptsby Marsak titled: "Bernard de Fontenelle," "Development of Science in Relation to Society," and "French Philosophers."
This collection consists of the holograph of DeZurko's 1953 doctoral dissertation "Functional Trends in Writing Pertaining to Architecture with Special Emphasis on Period ca. 1700-1850." Also included are the typescript and galley proof of the book Origins of Functionalist Theory.
This collection contains typescripts, handwritten notes and correspondence related to the personal and professional life of George W. Whiting, a professor of English at Rice Institute.
Sermons written by Mathurin Guerin, with prayers to be delivered before and after the sermons. There are nine sermons handwritten into a bound volume. The Reverend Mr. Henry Heywood, who died in October 1755, preached the first six in Charleston, South Carolina. The 193 pages of sermons are handwritten and very fragile.
This collection contians the business ledger of the firm of Allen and Morris, showing transactions for services and sundries with various persons and companies, including the Confederate States of America. The firm was located in Prattville, Alabama, and the ledger's entries date from June 27, 1862 to November 15, 1864
This collection contains the manuscript of a book by Stella Shurtleff called "Art Came to Texas: A Story of the History of Art in Texas". Also included are notes and correspondence regarding the history of art in Texas.
This collection contains a typewritten manuscript called "Seeking the Garden of the World", which is Oswald Mueller's English translation of Fritz Scheffel's Deutsche suchen den Garten der Welt. Mueller authors the preface, in which he describes the story as that of the failed German attempt to colonize Texas into a New-Germania. The manuscript is 351 pages long.
This collection contains a compilation of letters to and from Col. House regarding business deals, financial holdings, and politics. The majority of the letters are addressed to Thomas C. Dunn. Other correspondents include: Dewitt C. Dunn, Secretary McAdoo of the Treasury Department, and Paul M. Warburg. Topics discussed include real estate, federal and regional reserve banks.
This material was the working papers of the Journal of geophysical research during the period when Prof. Alexander J. Dessler (Space Science Dept., Rice University) was associate editor and later co-editor (1964-1970). It includes correspondence between Dessler, other editors, referees and authors. A folder for each article accepted or rejected for publication was usually prepared and assigned a number; this internal organization has been preserved.
See separate document for full listing of article files in box 1.
This collection contains a letter from Annie Gregory to Lady Margaret Spicer, daughter of the 12th Earl of Westmoreland. In the note, Annie requests that Lady Spicer let her know if her husband Captain John Edward Philip Spicer would let her (Annie) come to Chittoe Heath. Annie Gregory belonged to a Methodist (Weslayan) family in Wiltshire.
This collection contains thirteen letters written by the Duke of Wellington to Miss A.M. (Anna Maria) Jenkins, a 19th century evangelist. Two other letters are from Ms. Sophy Mistes to Miss A.M. Jenkins also. Accompanying some of the letters are envelopes with wax seals; also included in the collection are a miniature photo of the Duke and a paper Mariner's Compass.
This collection contains letters and literary drafts of Samuel Richardson; letters of his daughter, Anne Richardson, to her sister (Martha Richardson Bridgen) and parents, and Sally Crowther Moodie. The collection also includes letters by Elizabeth (Leake) Richardson, Sally Crowther Moodie, and Jane Berthon regarding the Lisbon earthquake (1755); and correspondence from O.B. Kaiser to Samuel Richardson.
Dr. Arthur Few's journal articles and other publications, including a VHS on which he collaborated; his class notes and lectures, including overhead projector transparencies, projector slides, and film; and materials regarding Martel College, including a VHS by a Martel student.
Correspondence, reports, and publications revealing Rice Institute / Rice University's athletics programs and participation in regional athletics conferences.
Document is an anonymous commentary on an article appearing in the February 28, 1827 edition of "The Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" that discussed propositions put forward by Lord Bathurst for reforms in the treatment of enslaved people in the Colonies; in particular, a prohibition of the flogging of women, which failed to pass. The author of the document is writing to give wider publicity to the enslavers' vote to permit the flogging of women, "however painful the knowledge of these proceedings may be..."
This collection contains a hand-made collected edition of poetry by Lois Tompa called "Above the Wall", dedicated to her husband, Joseph Tompa. The manuscript consists of 35 leaves of mimeograph pages stapled together with the author's autograph inscription.
This collection contains Edward Doughtie's compilation of manuscripts of English Renaissance songs, including: typescript copies of Lyrics from English Airs and a typescript of Liber Lilliati (an Elizabethan verse and song).
This collection contains Frank Briggs' papers about Project Mohole, a cooperative attempt between the U.S. government and the scientific community to drill a hole through the earth's crust to the Mohorovicic Discontinuity or Moho, the boundary between the Earth's crust and the mantle. The project was touted as equivalent landing on the moon, and the Houston firm Brown and Root was selected as the contractor. Also included in the collection are magazine articles, correspondence, publicity, budgets, and designs and plans of the project. The manuscript about the endeavor, PROJECT MOHOLE: The History and Technology of a Famous Government Project and Briggs' published book, Tales and Bare-faced Lies about Tigers in the Oil Patch, are also part of the collection.
This collection contains Allan H. Stevenson's research of early paper-making and printing. Included in the collection are samples of early watermarked paper, facsimiles of watermarks, correspondence and manuscript notes by Stevenson, and reviews of publications. Also included are: proof copies of papers by Stevenson and other scholars, miscellaneous printed material on the subject of printing, conferences and exhibitions, and presentations from other scholars.
The collection consists of 408 black and white photographs and 77 slides of New England gravestone carvings. The gravestone carvings date from 1653-1810, these photographs of the carvings were created by Allan Ludwig in 1961-1964. Accompanying the photographs is an index of iconography and a list of New England stone carvers before 1800. States include Rhode Island, Connecticut, and Massachusetts.
This collection contains the autobiographical memoirs of Hugh R. McKean, Rice Alumnus, class of 1922. The memoirs cover the early 20th century (through 1922) and for the most part describe the life of a farmer's family in South Texas. A fair amount of the memoirs concern his years as a student, letterman, and Hohenthal Award winner at the Rice Institute. In addition, the memoirs provide McKean's observations about events in Houston during the WWI era.
This collection consists of a letter written by E.V. Stevenson describing his time as a Rice Institute student in 1914-1915. He describes several professors and classes as well the campus surroundings.
This is a typed copy of an autobiography of William Hayne Leavell (1850-1930). Leavell served as minister of the First Presbyterian Church in Houston from 1893 to 1905. After serving as an envoy to Guatemala (1913-1919), he returned to Houston. The autobiography, written in 1920 by Leavell, transcribed later by his daughter and edited into this typescript in 1979 by Alec Bayless and Larry Noble, describes Leavell's career at the First Presbyterian Church in Houston, his service in Guatemala, and his connections to William Marsh Rice and the Rice Institute. Several well-known Houstonians are mentioned in the manuscript, including: Captain Peden and his son, E.A. Peden, Captain Baker, William Marsh Rice, and E.A. Sewall.
The collection documents Dr. Friedland's research and writing of his book, "The Death of Old Man Rice", and includes rough working notes, manuscript drafts, subject files, and photocopies of the original trial manuscript.
The papers consist of historian John B. Boles' Baltimore Museum of Art draft text and accompanying board proofs; Higginbotham Symposium 1984/85 correspondence, individual drafts of articles, and proofs; and drafts of Professor Boles' earlier works, including The Great Revival, 1787-1805: the origins of the Southern evangelical mind; Religion in Antebellum Kentucky; America: The Middle Period; and Masters and Slaves in the House of the Lord.
This collection contains the correspondence, manuscript verse, and proofs of poems of the poet Sir William Watson. Correspondents include R. Ellis Roberts, Clarence Winchester (of the Amalgamated Press), and T.N. Green-Armytage. Also included is a typescript written by Lady Watson describing how she was accosted by a retired Scotland Yard detective.
This collection contains Stayton Nunn's papers from 1927-1967 and includes notes and materials related to architecture classes, building projects in the Houston area, house plans and other architectural-related papers. The collection also contains a Harvard University Graduate School of Architecture course catalog, Royal Institute of British Architects publications, Rice Architecture alumni correspondence, and a proposed building program for Galveston Public Schools. Nunn taught architecture classes at the Rice Institute and was an alumnus as well.
These papers include correspondence between economist Ervin Zingler and his wife, Gilberta, as well as academic materials, publications and awards.
The collection consists of letters, newspaper clippings, military reports and documents and original photographs, certificates, a small group of callings cards, and memorabilia. The collection focuses on the military career and death of a first generation American pilot, Jerry C. Debes, of Syrian heritage, in the European Theater of World War II and the subsequent efforts of his family to honor his memory. The collection divides itself naturally into two main chronological parts containing several series in each. The first group (1942-1949) is focused on Debes' military career and his family's efforts to discover the circumstances of his death. It also includes materials concerning the Jerry Debes memorial Headstone placed by the American Battle Military Commission in the Lorraine American Cemetery in St. Avold, France. It also includes personal and military–oriented photographs. Other memorabilia are the US Air Force's Air Medal and Purple Heart medal in their respective cases, two copies of Jerry Debes' Purple heart certificates and Jerry Debes' calling cards. The second part is devoted to the efforts of Dr. Robert Debes to discover the exact circumstances of his brother's death due to friendly fire in late 1980's. It includes Dr. Debes' successful project to have his brother's name listed on the Roll of Honor at the American Memorial Chapel in St. Paul's Cathedral in London, England as well as the donations of materials to the Lone Star flight Museum in Galveston, Texas, the Air Force Historical Research Agency at the Maxwell Air Force Base in Alabama, and Rice University in Houston, Texas. It is important to note that most of the documents are not original but photographed copies. Original materials are indicated in the Finding Aid. The photographs and memorabilia are all original.
This collection contains the autographs of Jefferson Davis, Judah P. Benjamin, and Steven R. Mallory.
This collection contains a letter from Herbert Hoover to J. Hugh Jackson, Dean of Stanford University, informing him that Hoover nominated him for the Presidency of the Rice Institute.
This collection contains one handwritten letter from Sir Julian Huxley to Dr. Ernst Mayr, and three typed letters from Lady Juliette Huxley to Mayr. Lady Huxley's letters were written after Sir Julian's death, and they express her wishes to memorialize her husband.
This collection contains a scrapbook that includes the history, lists of members, programs, photographs, and clippings from the Houston, TX Discussion Group. The scrapbook catalogues the club's list of members from 1947-1994. The chronologically arranged folders in box 2 includes annual communications, program information and rosters, 1990-2019.
1 small box contains 1 scrapbook with member lists, a brief history, and photos of the group.
This collection reflects the ministerial career of the Rev. William A. Lawson, and comprises eight boxes. Materials include sermons, letters and speeches written by Lawson, as well as photographs, bulletins and audiocassettes.
These papers represent a portion of the literary career of Dr. Robert L. Patten of Rice Unviersity. His writings reflect his interests in Victorian graphic art, history of 19th century publishing, and renowned author Charles Dickens along with renowned illustrator George Cruikshank. Formats include drafts, notes and correspondence related to Dr. Patten's books, articles, lectures and reviews.
Audio recordings and administrative files reflecting the daily business of the KTRU Radio station at Rice University. Recordings include newscasts, interviews with rock, jazz and classical musicians, Rice Presidents' State of the University speeches and recorded live music. Administrative records include radio directors' meeting minutes, "Gripes and Groans" books from the DJ booth, programming notes, election forms, DJ handbook, licensing information, and correspondence.
Contents include: A student meeting taking place within the Physics Amphitheater. Students who participated on the Advisory Committee to select the next president of Rice University talk about what they were told by administration, what they saw during the meetings, and what the administration did. This student meeting took place soon after the announcement of Dr. William Masterson as the new university president. Speakers: Bari Kaplan, Barry Kaplan, Warren Skaaren
Contents include: (00:01) Dr. William Masterson addressing students and faculty via a bullhorn during the Masterson Crisis. He also takes questions and statements from the crowd; (12:12) KOWL DJ interviews Dr. Clark Read about the crisis and the public media; (16:17) A phone conversation about meeting with the media. Speakers: William Masterson, Jean Claude De Braemaker, Clark Read, Warren Skaaren
Contents include: KOWL DJ interviews various people about their opinions regarding the Board of Trustees selecting Dr. William Masterson as University President. Speakers: Paul Pfeiffer, Warren Skaaren, Lon Del Rio, John Worrell
Contents include: KOWL DJ interviews Dr. Wilfred S. Dowden on the American Association of University Professors reaction to the Masterson Crisis, as well as his views on the crisis. Speakers: Wilfred S. Dowden
Contents include: Bill Thomas and John Sorti interview Dr. Donald Clayton, Dr. Clark Read, Dr. David Nissen, Dr. Lee Rudee, and Christopher "Turque" Tomlinson about the Masterson Crisis. Because of the age of the reel, the recording has a few technical problems. The recording ends abruptly. Speakers: Bill Thomas, John Sorti, Donald Clayton, Clark Read, David Nissen, Lee Rudee, Christopher "Turque" Tomlinson
Contents include: (00:01) Student Association and faculty meeting pertaining to the case of Charles Freeman, the first African American student at Rice University; (08:33) News report on Charles Freeman case; (12:05) Student Senate statement on meeting; (13:35) Official press release from the Student Association read by Jeff Cox about Frank Vandiver's decision to not readmit Charles Freeman. Since more than one track was recorded at the same time, this audio has been altered and extraneous audio has been deleted. Speakers: Stewart West, Lon del Rio, Bennet Falk, Mike McKinley, Jim Gregory, Jeff Cox, John Sorte
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: (00:00) The Incredible String Band review; (1:08) Charles Freeman clarifications on his status as the first African-American student at Rice; (03:40) Baker College's Grungy Panties movie review; (05:52) Interviews for Student Association committees; (07:03) Rice Owls football game vs VMI; (08:54) Jim Morrison exclamation from The Soft Parade album; (09:17) Section of "The Last Trip to Tulsa" by Neil Young; (11:04) Hello Hamlet review; (11:56) Hello Hamlet; (12:50) Possible university and college drug policies; (14:54) Baker College meeting on possible university drug policy; (16:03) Rice Owls football starting line-up; (16:47) Section from a parody of "Banana Boat Song" (17:08) Water balloon war; (18:07) Astro militia protest commentary; (19:02) Astro militia march comment; (20:18) Rice Owls football vs. LSU after party preview; (21:07) Coach Bo Hagan on Rice Owls football; (23:18) Water wars between the colleges; (24:39) Rice Owls football vs. LSU; (27:31) Campanile 1969 yearbook announcement; (28:18) Problem over nudity between publishers and editors of the Campanile; (29:37) Campanile editor Gary Grether on TV show "News on Campus"; (30:21) Medal of Honor protest; (31:38) Vietnam War Moratorium Day; (32:51) Events on Vietnam War Moratorium Day; (35:59) Art exhibit "Reflections on War"; (36:46) Vigil for Rice war dead at Will Rice statue. Speakers: Mark Fowler, Bill Thomas, John Doerr, Bill Cavnar, Pat Baum, Carl Bear, Bo Hagan, Dick Fuqua, Austin Bay, Mark Sivers, Bill Haymes, Allen Matusow
Contents include: (00:29) Vigil for Rice war dead at William M. Rice statue; (02:42) Rededication to peace; (03:39) Dr. Allen Matusow seminar: (04:44) Rice University moratorium news; (06:08) Art exhibit "Reflections on War"; (6:40) Vigil for Rice war dead at William M. Rice statue; (07:09) Physical changes to Rice during moratorium day; (07:50) Moratorium days at colleges in Texas; (08:23) End of Dr. Allen Matusow seminar; (09:45) Speaking on the national moratorium; (12:36) KTRU News promo; (13:36) Rice Owls Footbal preview before SMU game; (14:43) Roger Priest and charges against him; (15:48) Jerry Jeff Walker, Guy Clark, and John Carrick perform at RMC; (17:23) Contesting of the Freshman election by the SA; (19:23) Comments on SA Election, (20:45) Dan Rather's visit; (22:08) Rumor on naming of new Rice president; (23:20) Freshman Football review University of Texas game; (24:15) Oleo Strut coffeehouse representatives going to Will Rice College; (25:30) SA contested election; (26:29) Kaycie the Catapillar (insects in food); (27:12) Judson Robinson visit to Baker College; (28:30) Pacifica Radio Station wins construction permit; (29:00) "Raid the Icebox" Andy Warhol exhibit; (29:48) Freshman football review Texas A and M; (30:32) Baker College pumpkin carving contest. Speakers: Buddy Trotter, Allen Matusow, Paul Pfeifer, Pat Baum, Bill Cavnar, Dick Fuqua, Bo Hagan, Julie Gianelloni, Dan Rather, Jack Olson, Bill Haymes, Jerry Jeff Walker
Contents include: (00:01) Timothy Leary at Southern Methodist University; (02:31) Intercollege Court ruling on Student Association elections; (05:31) Student Association Senate meeting review; (06:58) Student Association election voided; (09:49) Student Association Senate Vietnam Moratorium; (10:46) Bennett Falk re-instated; (11:26) Senate letter to University of Texas students about Frank Erwin; (12:35) Campanile in Life Magazine; (13:15) Review of Jones College's "The Prodigal"; (14:14) Coach Bo Hagan speaks about football; (15:21) Coach Bo Hagan at Wiess speech; (16:04) Campanile in Life Magazine; (17:01) Ted Farmer on Student Association Senate referendum; (17:58) CIA recruiters protest; (18:59) CIA recruiters protest; (20:20) Ted Farmer's referendum; (22:02) CIA recruiters protest update; (25:37) 2nd Vietnam Moratorium; (26:22) Vietnam Moratorium documentary promo; (27:32) Rice vs. Texas A and M football game review; (28:46) Ted Farmer interview on referendum; (29:53) Pep rally; (31:15) Brown Morality Play review; (32:06) Richard Neutra interview; (33:04) Ted Farmer off ballot; (34:40) Student comedy; (35:47) Commentary on draft lottery; (37:12) Intercollege Court election delayed; (38:02) School Board candidate Leonard Roberts interview; (39:36) Homemade newspaper bomb explosion; (40:27) Frank Vandiver's office on rumor of James Simms being next president; (41:15) Request for student on Board of Trustees and Intercollegiate Court proceedings; (42:15) Student Association Senate non meeting, absences; (43:09) Ted Melady interview on Rice Owls basketball; (44:02) Revolutionary Youth Movement films; (45:06) Rice Owls basketball vs Georgia Tech review. Speakers: Austin Bay, Pat Baum, Rick Weber, Bob Parks, Rod Crowl, Lee Horstman, Web Canard, Bennett Falk, Max Zimmerman, Scott Litin, Chip Matthews, John Doerr, Ted Farmer, Paul Levinka, Buddy Trotter, Chris Calvert, Frank Vandiver, Ben Tillison, Gary Maze, Leonard Roberts, Lee Horstman, Ted Melady, Paul Hlavinka
Contents include: (00:01) Herman Professional Barbershop ad; (00:53) Gino's restaurant ad; (01:39) Dutch Kettle ad; (02:13) Smith and ZZ Top at the Houston Music Theater ad; (02:54:) Woody Allen's Take the Money and Run ad; (03:59) Easy Rider ad; (04:43) The Moody Blues at the Houston Music Theater ad; (05:38) Buger King ad; (06:20) The Jones Theater presents Dirty Work at the Crossroads; (06:54) Dromgoole's Typrewriter Shop ads; (08:55) Frank Vandiver's "Their Tattered Flags: The Epic of the Confederacy" ad; (10:07) Rice Campus Store ads; (11:45) Sammy's ads; (15:57) Graduation announcements at Rice Memorial Center ad; (16:35) Der Weinerschnitzel ads; (18:41) Denim at Golden Fleece Club ad; (19:41) Gino's restaurant ad; (20:14) Hamburgers by Gourmet ad; (24:10) American General Life Insurance ads; (30:47) Rice Campus Store ad; (31:31) Houston Symphony at Rice Field House ads. Speakers: Woody Allen, Smith, ZZ Top, The Moody Blues, Frank Vandiver, Fred Duckett
Contents include: (00:01) Promo - Jim Gregory Show; (02:04) Promo - Jim Gregory Show; (03:20) Station ID - apology for bad signal; (04:11) Promo - Once Every Four Records; (05:03) Promo - Hit Line; (06:23) Station ID - The Big 58; (06:57) Station ID - Much More Music; (07:06) Station ID - Campus Information Station; (07:14) Station ID - 580 KTRU; (07:21) Station ID - Rice Owls; (07:29) Station ID - Much More Music; (07:38) Station ID - Lightnin' Hopkins; (07:46) Station ID - George Roy Hill; (07:58) Station ID - Big Band; (08:18) Station ID - Good Morning Sound; (08:34) Double Play; (08:42) New Music Now; (08:49) Three in a Row; (08:55) The Beat Goes On; (09:07) Station ID - Strikes Gold; (09:18) Golden Weekend; (09:24) Golden Classic; (09:33) More Music; (09:43) [?]; (09:52) Theme music; (10:03) Promo - KTRU News; (11:09) Promo - KTRU News Moratorium Day; (11:55) Promo - Mickey Swift; (13:50) Promo - Top 15 Artists; (14:25) Promo - Thomas Nast; (15:21) Promo - Jock-in-the-Box Contest; (16:44) Promo - [?] Norman Show; (17:17) Airing 3 hours April 1970 on KPFT 90.1 FM; (18:36) Theme music - Buddy Trotter and Music; (18:58) Theme music - Whole Rice Radio presents; (19:08) Theme music - Stinger. Speakers: Jim Gregory, Lightnin' Hopkins, George Roy Hill, Mickey Swift, Thomas Nast, Buddy Trotter, Herman Beiersdorf
Contents include: (00:01) Win a date with Rob Quartel; (02:15) Carts introduction; (02:25) Wooo fx, (02:38) Aww now wait a minute; (02:47) electronic Star Spangled Banner; (03:10) Oh no; (03:16) Door, Door; (03:40) Weather; (03:46) Come on now; (03:55) KTRU promo by Rice Owls basketball player; (04:12) Horn flourish; (04:20) Apple gunkies; (04:34) Canned laughter; (04:45) Pouring soda in a glass; (04:57) Canned laughter; (05:04) Large audience canned laugher; (05:20) Cheering; (05:36) Mickey Swift promo; (05:48) KTRU promo; (05:58) Booing; (06:09) Superlatives; (06:23) KTRU promo; (06:39) KTRU show promo; (06:56) KTRU basketball team promo; (07:15) KTRU promo by basketball player; (07:45) gunshots/fireworks; (08:03) gong; (08:07) I don't get it; (08:13) You know it leads to harder stuff; (08:26) applause; (08:38) I never swinged it; (08:44) applause; (08:58) electronic signal; (09:17) Items crashing; (09:50) child speaking; (09:56) Chic and sophisticated; (10:03) That's a pretty car; (10:14) child speaking; (10:21) Steve Rogers promo; (11:33) Mickey Swift promo; (13:26) Library closure over Abbie Hoffman bomb threats; (14:34) Bill Wright; (14:41) So long; (15:35) KTRU promo; (16:05) KTRU promo; (16:30) KTRU Much More Music promo; (16:52) KTRU promo; (17:18) KTRU closed for repairs; (18:14) Scott Hill show intros; (18:40) Ron Harper show intros; (19:05) J. Leighton Read program intros; (19:25) Thomas Nast [?] program intros; (19:39) Jim Connor show intros; (20:03) Rob Quartel show intros: (20:28) Shawn Mackenzie [?] program intros; (20:52) Sid Marr [?] program intros; (21:17) Greg Reinhart show intros; (21:40) The Montgomery Show intros; (22:04) Greg Sporak show intros; (22:26) Jim Mead [?] show intros; (22:49) Jim Lawler show intros; (23:10) Rick Doyle [?] show intros; (23:32) Brad Etherton intros; (23:57) Jim McLaren show; (24:19) Dean Bradley [?] show intros; (24:29) Harvey Jay Spooner [?] show intros; (25:02) Steve Rogers show intros; (25:24) Buddy Trotter show intros; (27:01) Mickey Swift show intros; (27:24) Intro horn music; (28:30) Upbeat jazz music with drum solo; (31:52) Show intro. Speakers: Rob Quartel, Mickey Swift, Steve Rogers, Bill Wright, Scott Hill, Ron Harper, J. Leighton Read, Jim Connor, Greg Reinhart, Greg Sporak, Jim Lawler, Brad Etherton, Jim McLaren, Buddy Trotter
Contents include: (00:25) Super bowl commentary, Kansas City Chiefs; (01:23) Report on Afram and the British Empires response; (02:23) Review of Owlets basketball vs San Jacinto; (04:03) Art institute delay of opening of the media gallery; (04:47) Preview of Lamont Young and Marian Zazela environment "Dream House"; (06:07) Art Institute review preview of "Jules and Jim"; (06:55) Student Senate preview new constitution for SA; (07:58) Report from Houston school administration building on desegregation; (09:16) Report on Student Senate meeting 1970-01-20; (10:20) Report on Student Senate meeting; (12:05) Special report on campus security; (14:02) Review of "Dream House" exhibit; (15:58) "Riot on Campus" Hanszen film; (17:07) Report on upcoming Rice Owls football games; (18:55) Prediction on faculty vote strength on curriculum change proposal; (19:50) Stephen Baker commentary on curriculum change proposal; (20:32) Rice Owls Basketball preview; (21:38) Half-time Rice Owls vs. Texas A and M basketball game; (22:26) Preview of Student Senate meeting; (23:43) Review of Rice Owls vs. Texas A and M basketball game; (24:46) Anti-G.E. rally; (25:25) Interview on co-ed dorm possibility; (26:49) Rice Owlettes vs. Texas A and M basketball summary and preview; (29:05) Report on co-educational dorm proposal; (30:31) Report on the anti-G.E. rally; (33:06) Interview with Matt Harris on Anti-G.E. rally; (35:58) Curriculum reform news promo; (36:58) Review of Lightnin' Hopkins concert at Jewish Community Center; (38:08) RAC protest of ROTC recruiting; (39:08) Opinion on President Nixon's anti-crime bill; (40:10) Interim President Frank Vandiver on proposed third women's college; (41:18) Review of Jones College melodrama; (42:43) The Band coming to Houston; (43:58) Preview of Rice Owls vs. Baylor Bears basketball game. Speakers: Pat Baum, Miriam Wilcox, Gary Mayes, John Doerr, Paul Muncy, Julie Gianelloni, George Greanias, Stephen Baker, Doyon Main, Bill Katzenberg, George Greanias, Jack Reeves, Matt Harris, Chip Matthews, Kerry Vandell, Christine Ehlig, Frank Vandiver
Contents include: (00:01) RAC ROTC protest; (02:59) The Band promo; (04:13) Steve Wendell interview on Rice Owls basketball; (06:55) Frank Vandiver book interview; (08:06) Job interview policy; (09:50) Co-ed college proposal; (11:09) Rice Owl band in New Orleans for Mardi Gras; (12:31) Commentary Houston school board integration; (14:25) Student Association Senate meeting review; (15:55) Richardson plan on co-ed colleges; (17:17) Coach Don Knodel on basketball; (18:32) Summer job plan by Placement Office; (19:43) Baroque Ensemble review; (20:56) Media Center film program expansion; (21:49) Baker Shakespeare senior feast; (23:17) Chartered bus to Baylor basketball game; (23:57) Media Center film program expansion; (24:51) Study Committee on Commencement; (25:43) President's Lecture Series David Morris Potter. Speakers: Pat Baum, Dean Weirum, Steve Wendel, Frank Vandiver, Lee Horstman, John Clark, John Doerr, Web Canard, Jim Baker, Don Knodel, Austin Bay, Doyon Main, Bert Pluymen, David Morris Potter, Paul Hlavinka
Contents include: (00:01) President's Lecture Series David Morris Potter; (01:37) Coach Don Knodel on basketball; (03:10) Student Association Senate meeting; (05:03) Artificial turf; (05:56) Coach Don Knodel on basketball; (07:41) Carolyn Kendrick Thresher controversy; (08:48) Rice Owls tennis match review; (09:38) Comedic secretaries revolt KTRU takeover; (10:43) Commencement Study Committee; (12:27) News promos; (14:34) Vote for Christopher "Turque" Tomlinson; (15:08) Rice Owls basketball vs. Texas Tech preview; (16:54) Student Association election results; (18:43) Jack Bruce and Mountain concert review; (20:01) Rice Owls basketball vs. Texas Tech review; (21:29) Carolyn Kendrick probation appeal; (25:01) Student Association elections commentary; (27:44) Coach Don Knodel on basketball; (29:03) University of Texas issues; (30:51) Student Association Senate elections; (32:29) Vietnam Moratorium activities; (34:11) Basketball documentary; (34:58) Vietnam fast resolution; (36:07) Dr. Ronald Magid refused tenure; (38:) Judge Virgil Singleton on Houston Peace Coalition permit; (40:42) James Bristol on repealing the draft; (42:12) William Rusher on liberalism; (43:43) Commentary on William Rusher speech. Speakers: Pat Baum, David Morris Potter, Don Knodel, John Doerr, Bill Whitmore, Doyon Main, Web Canard, Glenna Bergquist, Paul Hlavinka, Rebecca Greene, Julie Gianelloni, Michael McEnany, Kerry Vandell, Rick Lowerre, Gary Maze, Ronald Magid, Virgil Singleton
Contents include: (00:01) Drs. Ronald Magid, Douglas Milburn, Jr., Lee Stavenhagen, Heinz Puppe, Wulf Koepcke refused tenure; (01:39) St. Patrick's Day bulletin board, events at Rice; (02:41) Rumor of Norman Hackerman being named Rice University President; (05:08) Houston Peace Coalition parade; (07:38) Judy Collins concert review; (08:57) Student Association resolution on tenure; (10:28) Faculty passes curriculum reform proposal; (12:10) Franz Brotzen on university president selection; (13:24) Students Association election results. Recording has technical difficulties. Speakers: Pat Baum, John Doerr, Jim Baker, Paul Hlavinka, Melissa Crowfoot, Austin Bay
Contents include: (00:01) Rice Memorial Center fire; (04:21) Faculty Committee on University Welfare on Abbie Hoffman event; (11:52) Dean Weirum on the fire his office, the Abbie Hoffman event, and a larger statement on the student protest movement; (22:43) Student Center Board meeting on Abbie Hoffman event; (33:44) Small fire at ROTC building; (34:34) Robert L. Kahn suicide; (35:21) M.A.S.H. review; (36:02) Commencement Study Committee recommendations; (37:20) SWC baseball predictions; (38:06) They Shoot Horses Don't They review; (38:49) Space City news services bomb threat; (40:00) Statement on confusing fire and Abbie Hoffman incident; (40:13) Statement on approving of Faculty Committee of University Welfare on Abbie Hoffman event; (41:37) Excerpt from Dean Weirum statement on fire and Abbie Hoffman event, same as 11:52; (42:32) Excerpt from Faculty Committee on University Welfare statement on Abbie Hoffman event, same as 04:21; (44:19) Donald Clayton on singing the Faculty Committee on University Welfare statement on Abbie Hoffman event; (45:20) Student Center Board statement on Faculty Committee on University Welfare decision about Abbie Hoffman event. Speakers: Paul Hlavinka, John Doerr, Todd Scharnberg, Pat Baum, Donald Clayton, Bob Parks, Jer Mardis, Dean Weirum, Jean Claude De Braemaker, Julie Gianelloni, Gary Maze, Bill Cavnar
Contents include: Student Center Board meeting about the withdrawal of the Abbie Hoffman speech invitation.
Contents include: (00:01) Society of Female Terrorists meeting; (01:42) Ed Dykes on Abbie Hoffman event; (02:09) Dr. Clark Read and others on Rice Memorial Center fire; (04:06) Lovett College government statement; (04:41) Dean Weirum reads Board of Directors letter on Abbie Hoffman event; (06:17) Dean Weirum reads Frank Vandiver's letter of resignation; (07:23) Residential college meeting on recent events; (08:04) Franz Brotzen statement; (08:15) Dean Weirum statement on Abbie Hoffman event; (08:26) Frank Vandiver letter repeated; (10:35) Board of Directors letter repeated; (12:13) Hourly summaries on Abbie Hoffman event; (13:40) Residential college meetings on Abbie Hoffman event; (14:41) Drs. Allen Matusow and Chandler Davidson on Faculty Council meeting; (15:35) Faculty Council meeting report; (16:00) Board of Trustees meeting moved to unknown location; (16:57) Dean Weirum on access to college lot; (18:22) Statement from students occupying Allen Center; (19:06) Allen Center occupation; (21:12) Food for Allen Center occupiers; (23:02) Dean Weirum statement on campus closing to non-Rice people; (23:55) Radical student meeting on Abbie Hoffman event; (25:54) Informal convocation leading to Allen Center occupation; (27:12) Allen Center occupation purpose; (27:45) Why Allen Center?; (28:26) Occupiers deciding who can enter; (29:14) Occupiers extend invitation to Abbie Hoffman; (29:47) Frank Vandiver statement; (30:22) Space City News comment on upcoming Abbie Hoffman Houston events; (31:16) Torn McGarity on campus security; (32:03) Bomb threat at Jones North; (32:52) Harold Rhodes on bomb threat; (33:25) Web Canard phone message; (35:38) Lee Estes statement on Allen Center disturbance; (37:09) Allen Center report; (37:51) Reporting suspicious activity post-Allen Center disturbance; (38:26) Interview with Bob Parks about the Allen Center disturbance. Speakers: Katherine Smith, Ed Dykes, Dean Weirum, Clark Read, Franz Brotzen, Paul Hlavinka, Pat Baum, Allen Matusow, Chandler Davidson, John Doerr, Jim Connor, Web Canard, Gregory Reinhart, Karolyn Kendrick, Gary Maze, Frank Vandiver, Torn McGarity, Jim Gregory, Harold Rhodes, Julie Gianelloni, Bob Parks
Contents include: Student Center Board withdraws invitation to Abbie Hoffman. Speakers: Stephen Fox
Contents include: (00:01) Graduate Student Association president on Allen Center disturbance; (01:48) Dan Rosenberg on outsiders at Willy's Statue; (03:05) Tom McGarity on outsiders at Willy's Statue; (03:37) Allen Center disturbance summary; (08:34) Commencement revision; (10:04) Bob Parks statement on Norman Hackerman; (11:34) Greg White on Norman Hackerman; (12:08) Norman Hackerman on selection; (14:01) LeRoi Jones talk; (15:07) Thomas W. Leland, Jr. on commencement revision; (16:25) Earth Day activities, Arthur W. Busch speech; (20:55) Rondelet chorus event; (21:24) Track meet preview; (23:06) University of Houston student incident on building construction; (24:49) Roland Richter on building construction incident; (26:55) Curriculum proposal passed; (27:39) Wiess Tabletop's "Grigsby G" review; (29:05) Ted Farmer running for Chairman of Democratic Precinct 40; (30:19) Commentary on President Nixon's national address on Cambodia. We deleted a song at the end of this recording. Speakers: Julie Gianelloni, Tom Nichols, Rob Quartel, John Doerr, Dan Rosenberg, Tom McGarity, Lee Estes, Bob Parks, Jim Gregory, Norman Hackerman, Greg White, Austin Bay, Thomas W. Leland, Jr., Bill Cavnar, Arthur W. Busch, Paul Hlavinka, Roland Richter, Stephen Baker, Ted Farmer, Pat Baum
Contents include: Official media report of the Allen Center campus disturbance. Speakers: John Doerr, Lee Estes
Contents include: (00:01) Call for standardized football officiating; (01:08) Conductor Robert Shaw possible Director of Shepherd School of Music; (01:47) Herbert Allen announces election of Charles W. Duncan, Jr and Baine P. Kerr to the Board of Governors; (02:13) Senator George McGovern to address Farmers Union Convention at the Rice Hotel; (02:44) Basketball, Rice vs. Texas A and M; (04:01) Rice Owls track and field vs. Texas A and M; (05:42) U.S. involvement in Taiwan; (06:50) George McGovern on defeating Richard Nixon in the presidential race; (07:53) George McGovern on unfairness of drug laws; (08:50) George McGovern on George Wallace; (09:53) Cooking competition at AstroWorld Hotel; (11:20) Student Association spring elections; (13:00) Rice Owls golf team; (14:02) Rice Owls swim team; (14:22) Performing Arts workshop; (18:18) Student Association Senate meeting on spring elections; (19:59) Ku Klux Klan Grand Dragon Frank Converse steps down; (20:53) Houston Mayor Louie Welch black police officer recruitment campaign; (20:32) Discovery of water vapor on the moon; (23:34) On incentives for environmental protections; (24:05) Risks of smoking cigarettes; (25:41) Opinion against racial integration of school systems; (26:26) Corroboration of discovery of water vapor on the moon; (26:49) Speculation on Texas college basketball season; (27:35) Marijuana legalization legislation; (28:53) Basketball University of Texas vs Southern Methodist University; (31:27) Appeal of county judge opinion; (31:44) Need for improving inner city schools; (32:38) Emergency Student Association meeting on election ballot; (33:36) Basketball, NCAA Regional Playoffs, University of Houston vs. University of Texas; (34:32) Court of Appeals ruling on constitutional question regarding minimum age for serving on a Texas jury; (35:16) Death of Bill English; (36:06) Student project; (36:28) University of Texas president urged to allow regents to consider TexPIRG petition; (37:10) Birth control pamphlet for University of Houston; (37:49) Rice Owls baseball vs. Saint Edwards College of Austin; (38:45) TexPIRG on campus; (39:55) Democratic Presidential Candidate Terry Sanford campaigning in Houston; (40:58) Student Association election announcements; (41:17) Rice Owls golf, St. Thomas Invitational; (41:50) Texas Court of Appeals upholds the constitutionality of Capital Punishment; (42:36) Rice Student Association elections. Speakers: George McGovern, Herbert Allen, Louie Welch
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: Sudent Association meeting about a blanket tax.
Contents include: Bradford Morris interview with Robert Blair Keyser; (00:59) Larry Lee on KPFT bombing; (01:59) KPFT bombing from KPFT; (04:25) Harper students in the Tutoring project; (06:32) Brown vs Jones College powderpuff ; (07:23) Anti-War Rally in Austin; (12:12) Hanszen College elections; (12:55) Larry Lee on KPFT black out, Ku Klux Klan, Houston Police Department; (16:36) Houston Police Department's relationship with Ku Klux Klan; (18:30) Registrar's office on drop deadline; (19:18) Dr. Herbert Stein talk; (21:13) Planning Kate Millett talk; (21:49) KPFT bombing; (23:08) Jer Mardis on Kate Millett talk; (23:50) Ramsay Elder on Lovett College referendum; (24:21) Jones College paint in; (25:37) Dr. Herbert Stein talk; (27:23) Kate Millett's talk; (30:00) Rice Owls football vs. Arkansas review; (31:24) "C. C. & Company" review. Speakers: Robert Blair Keyser, Bradord Morris, Paul Hlavinka, Larry Lee, Jan Godfrey, Karen Schain, Rob Quartel, Herbert Stein, Rick Cordray, Jer Mardis, Ramsay Elder, Johnnie Buzek, Jan Brenner, Kate Millett, Mike Ross
Contents include: (00:01) Campanile 1970 arrives; (00:59) Baker College room fire; (03:03) Steve Jackson on room fire; (07:08) Carl Morris on room fire; (09:07) Dr. Donald R. Baker appointed Brown College master; (11:24) Dr. Donald R. Baker on the college system; (14:25) Lovett College room jack to Sid Richardson College; (17:14) Student Association senate meeting on co-ed colleges; (17:55) Coach Bo Hagan's resignation; (20:30) Rice Players' "The Day the Whores Came out to Play Tennis" and "Short Sacred Rite of Search and Destruction" reviews; (23:12) Campanile arrival; (28:58) Football review; (29:38) Larry Lee on the FBI, KPFT bombing; (32:01) Bluebonnet Bowl Princess Kathy Brown; (33:06) WUSA and TV reviews; (34:54) Steve Elder on co-ed colleges; (35:31) Baker 3 trial; (36:06) Larry Lee on the new KPFT transmitter; (37:35) Roger Roitsch on Rice vs. TCU football game; (38:38) Philip Wood on Rice vs. Texas A and M football game; (39:14) Larry Lee on the Pacifica meeting; (40:22) Roger Roitsch on football wins; (41:20) Coach Don Knodel on basketball team; (42:28) Basketball team preview; (44:27) Darrell Royal on new football coach; (45:19) Jones College's "The Boys in the Band" review. Speakers: Paul Hlavinka, Rob Quartel, Steve Jackson, Carl Morris, Donald R. Baker, Rick Cordray, Mike Spruill, Norman Hackerman, David Danglo, Johnnie Buzek, Kathy Brown, Roger Roitsch, Philip Wood, Larry Lee, Steve Elder, Don Knodel, Darrell Royal
Contents include: Recap of the KTRU co-ed conversion phone survey.
Contents include: (00:01) Bus to Waco for Rice vs. Baylor basketball game; (01:26) Coach Fred Breckwalt on Rice vs. TCU swimming; (02:16) Arrests of demonstrators by Houston Police Department; (02:38) Mick Green on the KPFT bombing; (03:49) Shelby Metcalf on Rice vs. SMU basketball game; (04:50) Gary Rice on Rice basketball; (05:33) Anti-war demonstrators at High School Principals convention; (06:37) Jack Applewhite on Texas Inequality Control Board; (07:38) Oil company credit cards, commencement, Student Senate meeting; (09:32) Spiro Agnew demonstration and skirmish; (15:05) KPFT re-opening; (16:22) Freshman basketball players; (17:22) Majors Day; (18:29) Spiro Agnew demonstration; (19:39) Alley Theatre's "The Night Thoreau Spent in Jail" review; (22:07) Rice Owls basketball vs. Texas A and M preview; (23:18) Rice Owls basketball play-by-play; (24:38) Draft Director of the Selective Service critiquing college, military service; (27:04) "I Never Sang for My Father" review and other movie reviews; (28:55) Movie reviews; (30:25) Texas Abortion Coalition buses to Austin; (30:55) Potential Norman Mailer visit; (31:25) Rice Owls basketball review. Speakers: Fred Breckwalt, Tom Malone, Mick Green, Shelby Metcalf, Gary Rice, Jack Applewhite, Dale Rye, Johnny Buzek, Mitch Green, Jim Gregory, Rick Cordray, James Crisp, Bill Haymes, Paul Hlavinka
Contents include: (00:01) Don Snyder's hurt ankle; (00:30) Coach Don Knodel on trying to win the SW Conference race; (00:59) Coach Fred Breckwalt on swim team and schedule; (01:52) Pre-Med Society meeting; (02:42) Sid Richardson balcony; (03:10) Architecture on Majors Day; (03:34) Fine Arts on Majors Day; (04:05) Rice Players' "Marat Sade" vs. "The Serpent"; (05:02) Coach Don Knodel on absent players; (06:02) Coach Don Knodel on TCU game; (06:40) Coach Don Knodel on Texas Tech game; (07:46) Ronald Sass on teaching report; (09:49) Coach Don Knodel on players' meeting; (11:07) Texas Abortion Coalition; (12:14) Coach Don Knodel on University of Texas game; (13:38) Norman Hackerman breakfast for students; (15:20) Rice Owls basketball review; (17:11) Lovett College election winners; (18:09) Dr. Milton Friedman's speech; (20:12) Rice Owls basketball review; (22:19) Will Rice College Diet; (23:27) Rice Players' "The Serpent"; (24:16) M. V. McEnany on power failure; (24:45) Lovett College voting irregularities; (25:21) Rice Owls basketball preview; (26:28) Rice Owls basketball review; (27:20) Brown College election results; (27:54) Coach Bill Peterson on new players; (28:34) Rice Players' "The Serpent"; (29:23) Rice Owls basketball review of the Texas A and M game; (33:20) Rice Owls basketball interview; (36:55) Norman Hackerman on Yankee Stadium; (37:51) Rice Stadium Super Bowl 1972; (38:36) Norman Hackerman on college system; (39:13) Lew Hancock on winning Student Association presidential election; (39:54) Spring Think editorial; (40:43) Rice leaving SWC petition; (41:16) Baker College cabinet meeting; (42:01) Rice Owls tennis preview; (42:34) Bob Parks's State of the Union address; (43:28) KTRU vs. Thresher basketball game; (44:14) Rice Owls basketball preview; (44:51) Spring Think; (46:03) Registration deadlines. Speakers: Paul Hlavinka, Don Knodel, Mack Weld, Doug Welty, David Danglo, Don Bayne, Ronald Sass, Johnny Buzek, Norman Hackerman, Gene Coulbourn Hackerman, Milton Friedman, William Starnes, M. V. McEnany, Jim Garner, Bill Peterson, Chelo Murray, Alan Chapman, Lew Hancock, Julie Gianelloni, Chip Landsdale, Mike Estep, Bob Parks, John Mott
Contents include: (00:01) Rice Owls tennis; (00:25) Rice Owls tennis; (00:53) KKK electrical burning upgrade; (01:14) Hanszen College election results; (01:47) Coach Don Knodel on line-up changes; (02:17) Wiess College election results; (02:58) Student Association candidate list; (03:35) Norman Hackerman to alumni; (04:28) Rice women's swim meet; (05:13) FBI files from COINTELPRO; (06:15) New Party meeting in Houston; (07:14) Earth Day Fair; (08:22) TCU basketball preview; (09:10) Rice Owls tennis; (09:47) Walt Whitman Rostow speaks at Rice; (11:04) New Party representative; (12:04) Rice Owls football vs. University of Houston game; (13:18) Co-ed college committee; (14:04) Space City relaunch; (15:13) Rice Owls basketball preview; (16:20) Rice Owls basketball review; (17:28) Lovett College election challenge; (18:08) Rice Owls basketball preview/review; (20:19) Lovett College elections redo. Speakers: Sammy Giammalva, Paul Hlavinka, Don Knodel, Norman Hackerman, Jack Applewhite, Johnny Swain, Bill Peterson, Harry Fouke, F. Street Fulton, Henry Holcomb
Contents include: (00:01) Parent's Day; (00:50) 1972 Super Bowl; (01:24) Mike Schwartz on junk mail; (02:15) Tom Greene on Student Association polls; (02:45) Rice Owls baseball preview; (03:42) Grundelet team; (04:28) Spring Think review; (06:10) Critique of doctor at Warwick Hotel; (07:29) Norman Hackerman on training table; (08:21) Student Association Senate meeting; (09:58) Rice leaving SWC petition; (11:08) Frank Vandiver wins book award; (11:46) Hanszen College cabinet meeting; (12:09) Rice Owls tennis review; (12:34) Rice Society for Ecological Survival; (13:10) Rondelet dress; (13:40) Baker College cabinet meeting; (14:23) Program office interviews; (14:53) University of Houston Program Council; (15:29) Speaker event policy; (16:18) Coalition for Better Government; (17:00) Robert Lipton asked to speak; (17:46) Rice Owls football not on TV fall 1971; (18:21) Eugene McCarthy speaking at University of Houston; (19:09) Robert Lipton speech; (19:55) Norman Hackerman unable to teach class; (20:30) Norman Hackerman on athletics; (21:15) Eugene McCarthy on trial; (22:21) Trinity tennis match; (22:59) Mickey Swift in Mecom Fountain; (25:51) Tennis player on skills; (26:34) Speaker on William McGonagall; (27:13) University Committee work; (27:58) KOWL to KTRU name change; (28:53) Norman Hackerman on integrating student athletes into the student body; (29:48) ROTC in stadium lot; (30:36) Rice Owls tennis preview; (31:27) Rice Owls football scrimmage; (32:36) Freshman advising. Speakers: Leighton Read, Ralph Anderson, Paul Muncy, Mike Schwartz, Tom Greene, William Ballew, Leighton Turner, Hal Gober, Charlie Crowe, Jack Applewhite, Gail Goodrich, Jim Sylvester, Chip Landsdale, Paul Hlavinka, Bill Haymes, Eugene McCarthy, Norman Hackerman, Christi Oliver, John Doerr
Contents include: A KTRU DJ recounts the events surrounding Abbie Hoffman's intended speech at Rice and the fallout from the cancelled event. This documentary ends abruptly. The second part was recorded over. Speakers: Alan Grob, Lee Estes, Jer Mardis, Dean Wierum, Frank Vandiver, Donald Delbert Clayton, Franz Brotzen, John Doerr, Jean Claude de Braemaker
Contents include: Dan Guthrie and Buddy Trotter recount the history of KHCR, KOWL, and later KTRU, talk to H. Malcolm Lovett, Dean Weirum, Frank Vandiver, J. Venn Leeds, Gene Coulbourn Hackerman, Ben Blanton, and answer phone calls, and discuss signal strength. There are some technical difficulties with this recording. We deleted radio music throughout the recording. Speakers: Buddy Trotter, Dan Guthrie, H. Malcolm Lovett, Dean Weirum, Frank Vandiver, J. Venn Leeds, Gene Coulbourn Hackerman, Ben Blanton, Mary Kaplan, William Masterson, Jean Claude De Braemaker, Gary Maze, Neil Armstrong, Pat Baum, Allen Matusow, John Doerr, Todd Scharnberg, Dean Weirum, Thomas McGarity, Jim Gregory, Bob Parks
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: (00:01) Malcolm Lovett, Dean Wierum, Gene Coulbourn Hackerman, and unknown speaker on KTRU 91.7 improves wattage; (03:11) Rice Owls Track report and preview; (04:06) State Senate Bill no. 56; (05:15) Student Association giving Mentor Recognition Award to Dr. Paul Pfeiffer; (06:51) Proposal to create a new university council; (07:57) Rice University Baccalaureate exercises; (08:23) Unknown speaker on KTRU 91.7 wattage; (08:35) State Senate Bill no. 56 explained; (09:38) Norman Hackerman's commencement speech; (23:13) Health program; (23:52) Dr. Lowes Southwest Center for Urban Research; (24:45) Southwest Center for Urban Research; (25:34) Rice Owls track team meets and news; (27:36) R1 being decommissioned; (28:51) R2 computer; (29:46) Undergraduate grades; (30:24) "Exhibit for Children" at Rice Art Gallery; (31:05) Job placement mailings. Speakers: Malcolm Lovett, Dean Wierum, Gene Coulbourn Hackerman, Jeff Landsdale, Norman Hackerman
Contents include: (00:01) Description of new courses; (00:27) Written evaluation of course work; (1:00) Summer construction and renovation projects Sewall Hall, Jones College, Baker College; (01:42) Seismic expert on Apollo 14; (02:45) Mickey Swift in Mecom Fountain. Speakers: Mickey Swift, Herman Beiersdorf
Contents include: Sen. Ralph Yarborough speaks at Rice about the youth vote, increasing voter turnout, his accomplishments, and proposed new legislation that he supports. We deleted extraneous audio at the end of this recording. Speakers: Ralph Yarborough
Contents include: Part of this recording was interrupted by an unrelated radio broadcast. We deleted it. (00:01) Short prayer; (02:25) Introduction; (05:53) Perry Richardson Bass speech; (11:56) Jerry Gallagher speech; (14:12) Dr. J. Venn Leeds speech; (18:18) John F. Heard speech; (19:38) Norman Hackerman speech; (21:35) Pres. Lyndon B. Johnson speech; (42:10) Carey Croneis closing remarks. Part of this recording was interrupted by an unrelated radio broadcast. We deleted it. There are also technical issues with this recording, because of its age. Speakers: Carey Croneis, Perry Richardson Bass, Jerry Gallagher, J. Venn Leeds, John F. Heard, Norman Hackerman, Lyndon B. Johnson
Contents include: Houston Mayoral candidate Fred Hofheinz speaking at Rice on the following topics: police department, city pollution, mass transportation, sewage treatment plant, parks and recreation, firefighters, school district, racial integration, city charter amendments. This does not include a complete speech, but instead has sound clips from a press conference. Speaker: Fred Hofheinz
Contents include: (00:01) Scott Hochberg speaks with Dr. Claude de Bremaecker about the Amchitka nuclear blast on 1971-11-06; (03:50) Updates on the Houston elections; (07:58) Student Association Senate meeting on the judiciary; (08:35) Jess Neely inducted in the National Football Hall of Fame; (09:11) Associated Press headlines; (09:51) Peace Fair; (10:19) Station promo; (10:51) Updates on the Houston elections, statement from Fred Hofheinz. We deleted extraneous audio between news segments. Speakers: Paul Hlavinka, Scott Hochberg, Claude de Bremaecker, Chip Landsdale, Fred Hofheinz, Kevin Mayer, Jenny Atkins, Jim Latimer, Johnnie Buzek, Fred Hofheinz
Contents include: Houston election night coverage; Reports on India and East Pakistan. Speakers: Fred Hofheinz, Kevin Mayer, Jenny Atkins, Jim Latimer
Contents include: (00:01) Student Association Homecoming boycott resolution; (00:18) Rice Owls football on Bruce Gad; (00:36) Campus power failure; (00:44) Pasadena school board meeting; (01:22) Co-ed colleges; (2:00) Rice Owls Football vs. Alabama preview; (03:00) Frank Vandiver announcement on Hurricane Fern; (03:19) Owl hooting; (03:54) Rice Owls Football vs. University of Southern California preview, Eddie Collins, Chris Hale; (05:15) University fund drive; (06:03) Texas legislature scandals; (06:43) Huddo trial and convictions; (08:08) Curtis Graves on Texas legislature scandals; (09:28) Rice Program Council news; (09:53) Norman Hackerman on Rice Commerce Department; (10:38) Jones College news; (11:31) Honor Council elections; (11:59) Daniel Ellsberg's Pentagon Papers; (12:41) AP college football poll; (13:18) Football unclear; (13:51) Football; (14:33) Rice Owls Football; (15:09) Religion and black people; (16:38) Football fundraising; (17:40) Off campus funds; (18:38) Norman Hackerman on tuition; (19:55) Debbie Leonard Socialist Party for mayor; (20:57) RPC The Sticks bicycle tour; (23:05) Norman Hackerman on existence; (24:10) Sticks bicycle tour; (25:53) Sewal Hall dedication; (26:23) Rice Owls Football vs. Tulane review; (27:08) Quadraphonic sound review; (28:33) Texas stock scandal; (29:29) Democratic meet; (30:26) Rice Owls Football vs. Louisiana State University preview, athletic awards, freshman football; (32:50) Bills on Health Services and India Student Association; (32:44) Resolutions by senate; (34:05) Student Association; (34:23) Rice Owls Football vs. Louisiana State University; (35:41) Rice Owls Football vs. LSU review; (36:28) HISD Citizenship Committee, school board elections. Speakers: Bill Peterson, Norman Hackerman, Jeff Landsdale, John Doerr
Contents include: (00:01) Dr. Edward Norbeck on play; (00:49) Student Association elections in the colleges; (01:51) Greater Houston Convention and Visitors Council on Super Bowl invitation; (02:46) Rice TexPIRG elections; (03:45) Rice Owls baseball vs. Southern Methodist University review; (04:43) Rice Owls track and field meet preview; (06:25) SA election invalid; (07:25) Rice Owls baseball vs. Southern Methodist University review; (08:15) Rice Owls track and field meet review; (09:35) TexPIRG local board elections; (10:26) EPA lawsuit against Cedar Bayou Plant; (11:21) SA elections; (13:31) Super Bowl in Rice Stadium; (14:34) Texas delegates in Democratic Party Convention, rule changes; (15:36) Robert Pierpoint on his visit to China with Pres. Richard Nixon; (16:20) SA elections; (17:05) Bussing issue, racism; (17:41) SA elections; (18:29) Co-ed colleges; (19:29) Norman Hackerman on co-ed colleges; (22:10) Rice Owls track and field meet review and preview; (23:30) SA elections; (27:09) Financial aid; (27:56) State and federal board of educations against Harris County board for redistricting; (28:36) Counterfeit food stamp cards; (29:24) Bachelor of Fine Arts; (29:47) New Director of County Health Department; (30:59) Federal court restraining order, vice squad on lewd dancing; (32:17) SA elections; (33:29) Astrodome event; (33:58) Director of County Health Department; (34:29) University of Houston alcohol on campus; (35:01) Energy consumption; (35:37) Trans-Alaska oil pipeline; (36:48) Meat import quotas; (37:44) Padre Island rock concert; (38:33) School of Architecture Dean David A. Crane hired; (39:01) Rice Owls baseball vs. Trinity University preview; (39:31) Drug treatment centers. Speakers: Larry Le May, Robert Pierpoint, Norman Hackerman, Jim Ray, John Doerr, Mike Ross
Contents include: (00:01) Rice Owls sports review; (00:44) Presidential and other election results; (01:27) Off-campus; (02:06) Citizens for Good Schools election endorsement; (02:52) Lt. Governor Ben Barnes speaking at Rice; (03:35) Debbie Leonard, Fred Hofhienz, and Louie Welch speaking at Rice; (04:37) "Rice and City of Houston in the 70s" seminars; (05:42) Apollo 14 water on the moon; (06:53) Overview of Debbie Leonard's speech; (07:37) Apollo 14 moon findings; (08:17)Rice Owls Football on team; (09:00) Pres. Lyndon Johnson's Sid Richardson College dedication speech; (16:01) Issues at KPFT Pacifica radio station; (20:36) Co-ed college proposal; (22:36) KPFT Pacifica strike; (22:38) Financial Aid Office organization; (23:30) Rice Owls Football; (23:56) KPFT Pacifica strike; (29:06) Rice Owls Football vs. Texas review; (31:02) KPFT Pacifica strike; (31:58) Fred Hofheinz campaign speech on law enforcement and water pollution in Houston; (34:40) Student Association recommendations to commencement exercises; (35:34) Rice Owls Football vs. Tech preview, player motivation; (36:47) Student proposal; (37:11) KPFT Pacifica update; (39:05) Spring registration; (39:44) KPFT Pacifica strike; (40:36) Rice soccer team vs. St. Thomas University; (41:07) Louie Welch supports Herman Short; (41:55) Thomas Moore manuscripts found by Wilfred S. Dowden; (43:10) Rice Owls football vs. Tech review; (46:14) Drug symposium; (47:38) Telefund training. Speakers: Fred Hofheinz, Bill Peterson, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: (00:01) Nuclear Fusion with plasma; (01:12) Student interest in university finances; (02:36) New pledges from fund drive; (02:59) Students and Development Office; (03:22) AP Player of the Week Rodrigo Barnes; (04:13) 2001 view of the future speech; (04:53) Student on Rice University Fund Council; (05:35) Annual fund drive; (06:16) Rice Owls football offense; (07:06) Carl Smith proposed 40th precinct redrawn; (07:49) Rice Owls football; (08:45) Norman Hackerman at Hanszen College, alumni funds; (09:30) Editorial on students and the fund drive; (10:14) Louie Welch at Hanszen College; (10:34) No compromise; (10:47) Vietnam War and Pres. Richard Nixon; (12:00) Jones College completions; (12:29) Rice Owls basketball offense; (13:10) Student Association on discrimination; (13:41) School board candidates at Hanszen College; (14:10) KPFT Pacifica fundraising; (14:39) Golden age of epigenetic development; (15:22) Rice Owls football vs. Texas A and M; (16:03) Louie Welch on Herman Short; (16:25) Rice Owls football passing; (17:04) SWC conference standings; (17:58) Rice Owls football recruiting; (19:04) Changes to voting precinct lines; (19:48) Telefund update; (21:48) Frank E. Vandiver and Allan Nevins publication of "The Papers of Jefferson Davis, Vol. I, 1808-1840"; (21:47) Telefund update; (24:23) Offensive Player of the Week, Bruce Gadd; (25:03) Rice Owls football vs. Texas A and M preview; (25:55) Student Financial Aid Committee on Telefund; (27:29) Rice Owls football vs. Texas A and M preview; (27:55) SWC football weekend; (29:20) Population growth and regulation; (30:51) Financial aid news; (32:14) Bill Peterson on using Rice Co-eds for recruitment; (33:07) Will Rice Diet on minority admissions; (33:32) Rice Owls football vs. Texas Christian University; (34:51) Voter busing; (35:31) KPFT Pacifica marathon; (36:56) Voting in precinct 40; (37:31:) Clark Read on falling strings; (38:08) School board elections; (38:39) Blanket tax increase for subscription series; (39:49) Clark Read on falling strings; (40:04) Bella Abzug at Sheraton Lincoln; (41:24) Judson W. Robinson, Jr. thanks Jones College; (42:07) Clark Reed on falling strings; (42:34) Fundraising in Dallas and Fort Worth; (43:26) Student vote and election; (44:27) Harris County Clerk fired; (45:10) Warren Scarren and Preston Smith on film in Texas; (46:04) Children of God colonies; (46:45) United Press International announces All SWC team. Speakers: Bill Peterson, Norman Hackerman, Louie Welch, Jim Latimer, Clark Read, Judson W. Robinson, Jr.
Contents include: (00:01) Invitation to Wordsworthless Society Meeting; (00:50) Arthur W. Bush regional administrator of EPA; (01:31) Football recruiting; (02:00) Football player interview; (02:24) Interview about East Pakistan; (03:21) Regional EPA administration roles and power; (04:14) Student Association meeting on student judicial issues; (05:13) Rice Program Council on Blanket Tax increase; (06:12) Blood donations; (06:23) Rice University Court women and minority representatives; (07:02) Leslie and Larry Owens Memorial Service; (07:16) Telefund contributions; (07:59) SA referendum on minority admission fails; (08:21) Unapproved care packages; (09:10) Senator's report on students on University Court; (10:51) Election shuttle; (11:40) Basketball Coach Don Knodel on student support of basketball; (12:14) Basketball Coach Don Knodel on young basketball team; (13:44) Basketball Coach Don Knodel on Rice Owls vs. Citadel; (14:26) Basketball Coach Don Knodel on starting line up; (15:18) Rice Owls Basketball vs. Wake Forest Demon Deacons and sports; (16:35) Mayor Louie Welch assessment; (17:01) Fred Hofheinz mayoral election prediction; (17:55) Mayoral election prediction; (18:56) Electioneering by precinct judge; (19:20) Unknown woman on working in schools; (19:40) Fred Hofheinz - fresh look at city hall (20:13) Position 7 election; (20:29) Local politician on his election race; (20:52) Local politician on student voting; (21:03) Election shuttle; (21:51) Students primarily not radicals; (22:28) Conservative voting turnout; (22:51) Complacency reducing voter turnout; (23:12) Mayor Louie Welch angers black community; (21:42) Fred Hofheinz on Mayor Louie Welch's treatment of black neighborhoods; (24:24) Local politician on his election race; (24:57) Fred Hofheinz vote for change; (25:32) Problems of younger people voting at precincts; (26:30) RPC blanket tax referendum; (27:30) ACLU contacts for voter assistance; (28:03) Rice Owls basketball vs San Jacinto Ravens; (28:52) Santa ad for RPC Christmas party; (29:26) Local politician on education; (30:12) University Court; (30:56) Supreme Court and William Rehnquist; (31:32) Politician calling for end of involvement in Southeast Asia; (32:10) Young coaching staff; (32:28) Registrar's Office on schedules; (33:10) Marine Science research; (34:09) Geological evolution about an unknown planet; (34:57) Basketball Coach Don Knodel talking about a game; (35:43) Basketball Coach Don Knodel getting rid of freshman team; (36:45) Basketball Coach Don Knodel on Georgia Tech; (37:37) Possible recruitment of Joe Washington for football staff; (38:45) Coach view on athlete's student life; (40:05) Friction between students and athletic department; (41:20) Marine research bioerosion; (42:37) Rice Owls Basketball vs. Hawaii Rainbow Warriors, Coach Bill Peterson going to Houston Oilers, appointed Athletic Director Red Bale and Football Coach Al Conover; (44:18) Texas Public Interest Research Group on ethics, pollution, racial issues; (45:30) Unknown person talking about recent appointment; (46:04) The Owl Club construction; (47:00) Changes in policies at HISD; (47:38) Pete McCloskey running against President Nixon. Speakers: Don Knodel, Mike Ross, Louie Welch, Fred Hofheinz
Contents include: Former DJ of Pacifica Radio Station 91.7 FM covering the Pacifica worker's strike, subscribers' meetings, and issues with the Pacifica board. Speaker: Walt Silvus
Contents include: Episode 1972-02-29: Interview with Frances Farenthold running for Governor of Texas. She discusses the other candidates, corruption, and pollution; Coverage of the upcoming New Hampshire primary; Episode 1972-03-21: Florida primary results; Interview with Counting Chairman of Harris County Mr. Bouley for George Wallace. He discusses bussing, budget deficit, and youth vote. This audio has been altered to fix technical difficulties. Speakers: Scott Hockberg, Hubert Humphrey, George McGovern
Contents include: (00:01) HISD retirement policy; (00:48) Used book fair; (01:23) Edward Muskie campaign; (01:49) New screening for cervical and lung cancer; (02:50) Pres. Norman Hackerman on co-owners of Rice Stadium; (03:21) Rice Owls basketball vs. University of Texas review; (04:41) Unclear; (05:17) SWC Sportsmanship Committee and award, financial aid for athletes; (06:58) Al Conover on Limiting athletic scholarships and based on need, football awards; (09:35) Larger stadium in Houston; (10:03) Football awards banquet; (11:04) NFL recruitment of Bill Peterson; (12:41) TexPIRG on campus; (13:26) Co-ed college not expanding because of donor issues; (14:25) Two new co-ed colleges; (15:36) Co-ed colleges and student housing; (17:08) Rice Program Council subscription series; (18:14) Astroworld demonstration; (19:00) Graduate students poverty volunteering; (19:44) TexPIRG on campus; (22:00) Rice Owls basketball vs. Texas Tech preview; (22:32) Rice Program Council subscription series; (24:00) Professor's credentials; (24:29) Carey Croneis memorial; (24:50) Rice Owls basketball preview; (25:50) Influenza in Houston; (26:16) Speaker from Carey Croneis memorial; (27:30) Pres. Richard Nixon on Vietnam War de-escalation plans; (29:01) Moon eclipse; (29:40) Co-ed college committee report; (30:28) Rice Owls basketball review; (31:57) Freshman to play on varsity squads rule change; (32:47) Narcotics officer resigned, Dennis Daniels; (33:25:) SWC basketball review; (34:17) Death of Fred Wolcott; (35:00) University Council committee elections; (35:10) Improved health services survey; (35:45) Special city election; (36:50) Voter registration rules; (37:23) Phone survey about odor; (38:27) Hanszen College opposes building of R club room; (39:36) Rules for dogs on campus; (40:28) Opposing building of R club room; (42:25) Rice Owls swimming meet review; (43:24) Accepted athletic job at Rice; (44:02) American Basketball Association drafting college players; (46:30) Rice Owls basketball vs. Texas A and M preview, rebounding. Speakers: Scott Hochberg, Mike Ross, Al Conover, Jim Latimer, Doug Welty, Don Knodel
Contents include: (00:01) Investigating organized crime; (1:00) Open meeting on voting precints; (01:56) Kim ruled ineligible; (03:42) Conference rules and NCAA rules; (04:15) Will Rice College elections; (04:54) Lovett College elections; (05:14) Rice Owlettes vs. University of Southwestern Louisiana preview; (05:43) Santiago Genoves speaking at Rice; (06:20) Vietnam War draft number request call-in; (07:10) Student body demonstration [?]; (07:48) Earliest evidence of sex among organisms; (08:29) NFL draft, Stahle Vincent, Bob Brown, Mike Tyler; (08:57) Hexachlorophene not used to bathe babies; (09:42) Speaker talking about TexPIRG; (10:10) Election names; (10:21) Sidney Burrus taking over for another professor; (10:36) Rice Owls basketball vs. University of Arkansas review; (11:19) Student government at Rice; (12:11) Polling places; (12:30) University Council at Large Kathleen Ford; (12:48) Russia and the U.S. space exploration; (13:44) Chaplain services at local jails; (15:13) Joe Highland meeting on TexPIRG petition; (16:44) Appeal of legal decision; (17:10) Teacher education program; (18:09) Water quality board; (19:13) Texas Governor's race; (20:28) Clockwork Orange film review; (21:21) Will Rice College elections; (21:37) TexPIRG speaker; (22:29) Economic growth. Speakers: Mike Benning, Mike Ross, Larry Le May, Wayne Baisley
Contents include: (00:01) Economic growth; (01:15) Al Conover on Rice Owls football signings; (02:37) Champion Papers on water quality; (03:18) HISD change of retirement policy, union; (04:00) Trial; (04:20) Water quality rules; (05:59) Ralph Nader in Texas, TexPIRG; (06:57) Democrat Convention delegates, Anderson Rules; (08:30) Hanszen College election results; (09:26) Rice Chorale program; (10:28) Anti-Nixon activist at Sewall Hall; (10:48) Robert R. Herring and William H. Lane elected to Board of Trustees; (11:32) Architectural students take trip; (12:19) Valentine's Sweetheart Carolyn Rindosh; (12:51) Pres. Richard Nixon's trip to China; (14:22) Father Meyendorff speaking at Rice; (15:11) Houston consumer affairs; (15:44) Bird problem at Fondren Library and at local business; (16:27) University of Houston financial aid; (17:17) end of season SWC basketball review; (18:17) Robert Pierpoint to speak at Rice on Pres. Richard Nixon's China trip; (18:34) Drug abuse stabilized at Rice University; (19:26) Brown College elections; (19:53) Washington, DC Environmental Organization ecotage contest; (21:11) HISD school board; (22:07) Rice Owls tennis review and preview; (23:37) Terry Sanford presidential campaign review; (24:49) New York State University, Stoneybrook dog problem; (25:23) Rice Owls tennis review; (26:18) Rice Owls swimming review; (28:18) Dr. Virgil W. Topazio given endowed chair; (29:20) Pioneer 10 mission, Viking program; (32:00) Rice Owls basketball vs. TCU preview; (32:46) Harold Solomon not going pro; (33:34) Abortion laws; (34:16) Police and African American community relations in Houston; (35:05) Rice Owls basketball vs. TCU review; (37:22) Model Neighborhood Residents Commission. Speakers: Al Conover, Larry Le May, Sandy Moss, Bill Lee
Contents include: (00:01) Drug addiction treatment; (00:58) Anthropology collection for researchers; (01:30) Report of marijuana use; (03:12) Rice Owls baseball vs. Trinity University review; (03:38) Voter registration; (04:20) George McGovern campaign in Texas; (05:01) Lovett College opinion poll secession from Student Association Senate; (05:52) Terry Sanford presidential campaign; (06:26) Ombudsmen for Youth Affairs in Texas; (07:28) Rice Owls baseball vs. University of Texas review; (08:38) Black issues panel, concert, dance, and art exhibit; (10:14) Oxford philosophy professor on campus; (11:45) Political corruption because of low pay; (12:45) Harold Urey on creation of solar system; (13:13) Williams, golf team dispute; (13:52) Frederick T. Wall joins Chemistry Department; (14:32) Showcase of the arts at Rice; (15:18) Rice Owls baseball vs. University of Houston review; (15:59) Electrical outage at Rice; (16:40) Apollo 16 launch; (17:48) TexPIRG election; (17:55) Apollo 16 launch; (18:37) Federal laws on marijuana; (19:21) Reform of drug laws; (19:58) Student elections and registration; (20:33) Fire damage to Baker College room; (22:25) Rice Owls baseball vs. Lamar University review; (23:36) IM baseball review; (24:21) Trial lawyer on judges; (27:23) Rice student misdemeanor, felony charges for anti-war demonstration; (28:07) Blue gray game; (28:42) All-American Intercollegiate Invitational Tournament golf review; (29:36) Strike at unknown university; (30:21) Gov. Preston Smith on economy, social issues; (32:27) Student Association election ballot controversy; (33:23) Student consultants on university committees given more standing; (34:01) Reduction of degree requirements; (34:37) Student Association polling places; (35:22) Artificial heart valves; (36:00) Pres. Richard Nixon on Vietnam negotiations; (36:53) Faculty reducing degree requirements. Because of the tape's condition, the audio is damaged. Speakers: Sandy Moss, Jenny Atkins, Rick Cordray, Bill Lee, David Real, Richard Nixon, Preston Smith
Contents include: Promos for the Rice University summer school program for high school students from the Education Department. Speakers: Scott Hochberg
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: The radio show "So Now You Can Vote" reviews the 1972 Democratic Convention and how George McGovern received the nomination. Speakers: Mike Ross, Scott Hochberg, Shirley Chisholm, George McGovern, Valerie Kushner
Contents include: Interview with Frances Tarlton "Sissy" Farenthold about presidential candidate George McGovern, the Vietnam War, Pres. Richard Nixon, move to Houston, and the Democratic Convention. Speaker: Sissy Farenthold
"Contents include: George McGovern speaking in Houston during his presidential campaign. In his first speech, he discusses poll numbers, Richard Nixon's policies, agricultural issues, the Vietnam War, and equal rights. In the second speech, he discusses racial harmony, Richard Nixon's policies, special interests, and agricultural issues. Speakers: George McGovern and Barbara Jordan
Contents include: Robert Townsend takes questions from the audience about Harvard Business School, creating Staff Services as a replacement for individual secretaries, how to fix problems, how a CEO should not separate him/herself from the employees, improving AVIS, and how to be a good manager, marijuana arrests, organizations, tenure, communication skills, graduate business school, and business education. Recording ends abruptly. Speaker: Robert Townsend
Contents include: (00:01) Walter Duncan financial contributions to Pres. Richard Nixon; (01:42) Watergate investigation; (03:45) Barefoot Sanders running for U.S. Senate; (05:07) Marijuana effects on sleep; (06:11) Colleges voting on co-ed colleges; (07:07) George McGovern in Houston; (07:47) George McGovern critiquing Pres. Richard Nixon's education policy; (08:47) Student Association referendum and elections; (09:41) Presidential polls analysis, George McGovern campaign; (11:05) George McGovern calls for investigation of Pres. Richard Nixon; (11:44) Argument over George McGovern's Vietnam War proposal; (12:56) Pasadena air quality; (13:43) George McGovern on housing and pension, on veterans; (15:37) George McGovern on corruption in Nixon administration; (16:15) Incentives to pay bills; (16:37) Steve Roper comic strip term paper lawsuit; (17:21) Watergate scandal; (17:59) Pres. Richard Nixon's Vietnam War policy; (19:47) Student Association working in election central, other SA activities, student bail bond fund; (21:25) Frances Farenthold on Vietnam War; (22:07) Hanszen College food protest; (23:51) George McGovern on pollution; (24:20) Danforth Foundation fellowship; (25:12) Norman Hackerman on university growth; (26:22) Louie Welch will head Chamber of Commerce; (27:44) State elections, democratic candidates; (29:33) Presidential election poll; (30:23) Student human studies; (31:10) George McGovern on taxes; (31:40) "R" room negative reaction; (31:55) Watergate, Democrats for Nixon; (32:55) Pres. Richard Nixon Vietnam war peace agreement; (33:42) George McGovern on economics; (34:25) Pres. Richard Nixon on Vietnam War and negotiations; (36:46) Bill introduction on hijacking; (37:28) George McGovern on pollution, leadership change; (38:35) Houston City Council resolution to create Air Control Board; (39:54) Rummage sale; (40:56) Million dollars to acquire land; (41:56) Rice Pre-Med Society blood drive; (42:44) Robert Townsend on campus; (43:11) Sen. Lloyd Bentsen considered for Chairman of the Senate Democratic Election Committee; (44:10) Robert Strauss wants to be Chairman of Democratic Election Committee; (45:14) Harris County election recount; (45:57) Gardening in Montrose; (47:29) Government control; (47:53) Methadone; (48:33) Rice Pre-Med Society blood drive. Speakers: George McGovern, Carl Treleaven, Norman Hackerman, Kevin Mayer, Richard Nixon, Scott Birdwell, Frances Farenthold
Contents include: (00:01) Presidential election; (00:42) Blood donation; (01:01) Silent gonorrhea among Vietnam veterans; (01:34) Election recount; (02:07) Undergraduate want voice in education reform; (03:18) Pollution in Houston and ship channel; (04:18) UNESCO conference in Houston; (05:15) Al Conover on injuries; (05:43) Anti-Vietnam War rally, the anti-war movement; (06:37) Vietnam War in U.S. instead; (09:04) San Andreas fault earthquake prediction; (10:43) Anti-Vietnam War rally turnout; (11:23) UNESCO conference in Houston; (11:54) Rice Pre-Med Society blood drive results; (12:18) Nationwide and citywide survey on toy safety, TexPIRG; (14:57) Houston election recount; (15:59) UNESCO conference in Houston; (16:49) Pres. Richard Nixon's Thanksgiving meal; (17:22) Student representation, court system; (17:59) Final exam schedule; (19:13) Pres. Richard Nixon and Vietnam War peace negotiations; (22:31) Obscenities on radio; (24:06) Career planning and awards; (24:59) Surface of the moon; (25:39) Student Association meeting review; (26:41) Editorial on KTRU by-laws; (28:03) Student plagiarism, Honor Council. Speakers: Leslie Lauderdale, Kevin Mayer, Al Conover, Ramsay Elder
Contents include: Pres. Richard Nixon speech on end of Vietnam War via radio station KODA. KTRU analysis of speech and Vietnamese politics by Charles Doran. Speakers: Richard Nixon, Charles Doran, Dan Fine
Contents include: Norman Hackerman's State of the University speech. He discusses the university's budget, salary raises, reducing tuition, the endowment, state scholarships, self-evaluation, systemization of higher education, financial aid, acceptance rates, and issues with growing the student population. Radio music at the beginning of this recording has been removed. Speaker: Norman Hackerman
Contents include: Bill Haymes setting up for his performance recording in the KTRU studio, performing music, and answering questions. He discusses his time after Rice University, performing, the military, politics, and free time. Speaker: Bill Haymes
Contents include: The speakers on this recording include: Patricia Schroeder, Jill Ruckelshaus, and Bella Abzug. The recording ends and begins with two feminist songs performed live. Speakers: Patricia Schroeder, Jill Ruckelshaus, Bella Abzug
Contents include: First part of concert featuring Mike Marcoulier, Vince Bell, Sean Walters, and friends playing in the Grand Hall of the Rice Memorial Center. Speakers: Mike Marcoulier, Vince Bell, Sean Walters
Contents include: Second part of concert featuring Mike Marcoulier, Vince Bell, Sean Walters, and friends playing in the Grand Hall of the Rice Memorial Center. Speakers: Mike Marcoulier, Vince Bell, Sean Walters
Contents include: (00:01) Al Conover on needed positions; (00:34) Birds at Rice being scarred away; (01:11) Photographs for Campanile; (01:59) Protection during peace demonstration, planning event; (03:58) Burger King Whoppers eating contest during basketball game; (04:47) Skylab simulation; (05:28) Skylab astronauts music taste; (06:02) Architecture department meeting with others on building and environment; (06:44) Student Association meeting review; (07:31) TexPIRG on state bills; (08:20) Don Knodel on issue of moving basketball games to another facility; (08:58) Ads by weapons makers in military journals; (10:19) Opinion on no extramural women's basketball at Rice; (12:18) Peace rally and march, Frances Farenthold speech excerpt; (15:41) Selecting a speaker; Ira Gruber influence; (16:30) Frank Vandiver appointed to national committees; (17:44) Gale Stokes taking students to Yugoslavia; (18:31) Parking fines, story about Malcolm Lovett's parking ticket; (19:06) Pres. Lyndon Johnson on peace from his Sid Richardson College dedication speech; (20:30) New basketball coach on plans for the year; (21:44) Electronic warning device; (22:17) Explanation of low turnout at peace march; (23:43) Pres. Richard Nixon on peace agreement, reflection on Pres. Lyndon Johnson's presidency after death; (26:39) Architect gathering information about a new student union; (26:57) Pres. Lyndon Johnson on pollution from his Sid Richardson College dedication; (29:24) Animal noises; (30:07) Roe v. Wade ruling; (30:34) State of the University address in Hamman Hall; (31:12) Henry Kissinger on Vietnam War treaty, other political figures on treaty; (33:12) Campanile bill; (33:50) TexPIRG survey on prescriptions; (34:32) Champion papers case; (35:18) TexPIRG survey on prescriptions; (36:14) Opening of the Buffalo Bayou trail; (36:47) Committee of the Masters co-ed college selection procedure drawing; (38:03) Women's colleges more expensive; (39:01) City fund for Buffalo Bayou land purchase; (39:41) Texas Constitution review committee; (40:57) Free postage for U.S. Congress; (41:55) U.S./Russia environmental delegations; (42:52) Gas shortages; (43:15) 50% female representation in Texas Constitution revision; (44:06) Apartment shopping; (44:34) Gloria Steinem at Alley Theatre; (45:04) Birth control; (46:45) New planet revolving around star; (47:44) City bike registration. Speakers: Jim Latimer, Al Conover, Don Knodel, Frances Farenthold, D.H. Whalen, Wayne Baisley, Jim Vance, Richard Nixon, Henry Kissinger, Leslie Lauderdale
Contents include: (00:01) Pres. Nixon's treatment of veterans; (00:18) Pres. Richard Nixon on government domain; (00:39) Vietnam War peace agreement; (01:03) Infant mortality and cancer Shippingport Atomic Power Station; (02:38) Starve for Survival program; (03:16) Rice Owls football recruits; (03:58) Snow; (04:25) Engineering awards; (05:32) Campanile photographs; (06:19) City council election changes; (07:11) OCS short courses; (0:22) Solar energy; (10:35) Petition for continuous open house; (10:56) Columbia School of Law for two Rice student; (11:48) Conference on Apollo; (12:21) Texas Student Lobby issues; (13:06) Formal opening of environmental center for local politicians; (13:54) Study on Rice Memorial Center spaces; (15:38) Student Association meeting review; (16:39) Welsley College co-ed education is failure; (17:19) Extraterrestrial lectures; (18:32) Avoiding heart attacks; (19:33) American Indian Movement creation of Ogala Sioux Nation; (20:37) Kyle Morrow Room renovation; (21:21) Rondelet weekend preview; (22:28) Free Jewish University; (23:19) Campus police and crime; (24:01) Rice Pre-Med Society blood drive; (24:56) Critique of OEO; (25:32) Student personal exemption deductions; (26:17) Business opening on Montrose; (27:01) City bicycle registration; (27:54) Committee on Honor Council; (28:36) Campus Board of Control on bookstore; (29:16) Norman Hackerman on tuition increase; (29:41) Gas supply shortage; (30:14) Planned Parenthood begins terminating pregnancies; (30:39) Project Pull events; (31:29) Non-academic affairs committee; (31:59) Recycling center; (33:12) College room modifications; (34:59) Store business; (35:27) Faculty support for the honor system; (36:35) Vandalism in stadium parking lot; (37:35) Bladder cancer virus; (38:09) Black Student Association at Ball High School Martin Luther King, Jr. program; (38:31) Store business; (38:46) Residential College Committee on room and board issues. Speakers: Richard Nixon, Hazel Awalt, Leslie Laudersale, David Real, Scott Hochberg, Kevin Mayer
Contents include: Actors rehearsing Hello Hamlet.
Contents include: "The Cyclopiad" radio play by the Mercurial Theatre. Speakers: Austin Bay, Bob Anderson, Bob Brandt, Becky Green, Kerry Kimbrough, Leslie Brown, Debbie Irvine, Susan Watts, Mike Marcoulier
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: Fall 1973 news master (00:01) Skylab astronauts; (00:43) Key Largo freighter on fire; (01:09) Rice security men shot; (02:12) Tropical Storm Delia from Skylab; (03:27) Investigation; (03:44) Coffeehouse concert; (04:12) Dragonflies on campus; (06:05) Voter registration; (06:39) Gas sales; (07:29) Woman joining ROTC; (08:47) Voter registration; (09:00) Hanszen caterpillar race, week of freshman guidance; (09:43) Pub proposal; (10:29) Recycling center; (11:08) Sid Richardson College film series; (11:57) Senate Association Senate meeting review, Black Student Union; (14:02) Admissions and waiting list; (14:33) Bike registration; (14:52) Gas price controls; (15:36) Doonsebury comic strip inappropriate; (16:30) Sales tax; (17:18) KTRU Houston community programming; (18:30) Rapid transit; (24:45) Rice Soccer team; (25:19) Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead review; (27:18) Tennis clinic; (28:04) Rapid transit; (29:39) Propaganda against conservation; (30:14) Henry Kissinger negotiating in the Middle East, oil concerns; (34:27) Rapid transit; (34:55) Israel and Egypt conflict; (35:26) Politicians, Charles Percy; (36:07) Opinions on Pres. Richard Nixon's resignation; (38:18) State representation; (38:45) Mayor and controller contention; (39:24) Self-study parameters; (42:41) Sid Richardson College Oktoberfest; (43:23) Lovett College party; (43:54) Houston's future issues, mayoral candidate; (45:32) Franchise referendum on CATV, cable. Speakers: Tom Malone, D.H. Whalen, Fred Hofheinz
Contents include: (00:01) Franchise referendum on CATV, cable; (01:04) Student survey on impeachment of Nixon; (02:46) City Elections; (03:13) Electrical fire; (03:33) Football player on University of Texas game; (03:57) Energy consumption; (04:37) Fertilizer supplies; (05:05) Rice Pre-Med Society blood drive; (05:36) Classic movie theater in Houston; (06:33) Pres. Richard Nixon refusing to resign; (06:56) Skylab III preparations; (08:03) Norman Hackerman's State of the University preview; (08:33) HISD education and fiscal management; (11:27) Shorten diapause period of moths; (12:04) Opinion on Pres. Richard Nixon; (12:38) Comet Kohoutek observation; (13:28) Houston mayoral candidate; (13:52) Mayoral candidate speech; (14:23) Pres. Richard Nixon on gas shortage; (15:49) Speech on sun; (16:14) Thresher withholding names of sources, investigating Honor Council violations; (17:14) Honor Council on Thresher investigations; (18:37) Thresher and Honor Council controversy explained; (20:08) Powderpuff playoff games preview; (21:02) Gas shortage; (21:41) Recycling center; (25:09) Brown College vs. Baker College powderpuff controversy; (26:07) Egypt and Israel peace negotiations; (26:33) Powderpuff playoff games preview; (26:59) Hanszen College powderpuff; (27:17) Steve Reich concert review; (28:31) Pres. Richard Nixon crisis of confidence; (29:18) Problem with launch vehicle, role of astronauts in Skylab; (30:51) Eclipses, ancient peoples building structure; (32:17) Unique project; (33:01) Rice Marching Owl Band wants to play in Super Bowl; (34:08) Thresher and Honor Council controversy; (34:51) Promo for Beyond the Night of Decadence party at Wiess College; (35:45) Plays, powderpuff playoffs; (36:46) Intramural football; (37:20) Rice Marching Owl Band incident with Texas A and M; (38:10) Rice Marching Owl Band apology to Texas A and M; (39:38) Removing object; (40:13) NASA activities; (40:35) Baker College's Importance of Being Earnest preview; (41:17) Opinion not justified; (41:37) Rice Marching Owl Band incident with Texas A and M; (42:22) Christmas decorations and energy; (43:29) Tennessee Williams' The Purification review at Alley Theatre. Speakers: Wayne Baisley, Scott Hochberg, Richard Nixon, Augustine Martinez, Bert Roth, Jim Vance
Contents include: (00:01) Baker College's Importance of Being Earnest preview; (01:05) Don Knodel on Rice Owls basketball vs. Wake Forest preview, team issues Vanderbilt preview; (03:53) Skylab III mission control update; (05:06) Ames Research Center update on Pioneer; (06:04) Pub proposal; (06:55) Environmental clean-up; (07:25) Skylab III update; (08:18) Student Association Senate meeting review, apology from Texas A and M; (08:51) Precinct voting workers, voting computer; (10:20) Fred Hofheinz mayoral acceptance speech; (11:55) Intramural basketball playoffs; (13:04) Eugene O'Neill's Ah Wilderness! at Alley Theatre review; (15:32) Baker College's Importance of Being Earnest review; (17:07) Super Bowl at Rice Stadium; (20:58) Rice Media Center movies; (21:28) Rice Program Council movies; (22:45) Sid Richardson College water balloons during finals; (24:02) Pub proposal; (24:31) Water balloon incident, Sid Richardson College; (25:36) Zorba! preview; (27:27) Alley Theatre's Midsummer Night's Dream review; (31:10) Rice Owls basketball game play; (31:40) Daniel Johnston on birds near president's house; (32:29) Helicopter to scare birds; (34:10) Yucatan trip; (35:38) Helicopter stopped; (36:17) 1st Mardi Gras parade and Hanszen dinner; (37:29) Pub proposal; (38:06) Automobile mechanics course; (40:32) Exhibit on immigration of German intellectuals; (42:22) Student Association and other elections; (43:57) Budweiser Clydesdales; (45:18) Student Association candidate debate. Speakers: Don Knodel, Denis Williams, Fred Hofheinz, D.H. Whalen, Augustine Martinez, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: Sonny Terry and Brownie McGhee concert held in the band hall at Rice University. During the recording, Terry and McGhee stop playing and answer questions from the crowd. Some of the questions are hard to hear, but the musicians frequently repeat the questions. Answers include McGhee's philosophy of blues and truth, Terry's impromptu harmonica lesson, Terry and McGhee's history as a duo, and Terry's work with Blind Boy Fuller. Speakers: Brownie McGhee, Sonny Terry
Contents include: Tim Weisberg and his band discuss their tour, music history, influences, and current musical trajectory. Speakers: Tim Weisberg
Contents include: Tim Weisberg concert in the band hall at Rice University. Speaker: Tim Weiberg
Contents include: Shawn Phillips' music interspersed with interview snippets. Phillips discusses yoga, vegetarianism, freedom, his career, unbiased radio stations, songwriting, spirituality, the environment, and pollution. Speaker: Shawn Phillips
Contents include: Interview with Frances Farenthold, while visiting Rice University; discussing her campaign for Texas Governor. Scott Hochberg, Frances Farenthold
Contents include: Frances Farenthold speaking at Rice. Speaker: Frances Farenthold
Contents include: Wheatfield concert live radio broadcast in Baker Commons. The first part of this recording has been altered, because the original recording changed recording speed. The second part is incomplete. Speakers: Connie Mims, Ezra Idlet, Craig Calvert, Bob Russell
Contents include: Wheatfield concert live radio broadcast, continued, in Baker Commons. It is incomplete. Speakers: Connie Mims, Ezra Idlet, Craig Calvert, Bob Russell
Contents include: (00.01) KTRU staff celebrating expansion of wattage to 250 watts with toast to all 80 people at Rice who make KTRU radio possible. During broadcasts toasts are made, and KTRU listeners who are able to hear the new 250 watt station; (08.46) Music or radio play. It is unclear who created it. Speakers: Ken Alexander, Steve Golvach
Contents include: (00:01) Student Association candidate debate; (03:21) Norman Hackerman on Pub; (05:08) Student Association presidential candidate's platform; (05:59) Cheerleaders changing; (06:17) Student Association presidential candidates' platforms; (08:40) Student Association elections; (09:08) Honor Council elections redo; (09:28) Candidate's qualifications; (10:14) Honor Council ballot incorrect; (10:56) Don Knodel on Rice Owls basketball vs. Texas A and M preview; (12:25) Student Association election results; (13:32) Play preview; (14:32) SA joke presidential candidate; (15:09) Wiess College joke; (15:41) Student Association election results; (16:54) Student Spring Break Experiences; (17:30) Xavier Darasse concert preview; (18:04) Rice Owls tennis vs. Texas Southern University; (18:20) Wiess Tabletop's Man of La Mancha preview; (19:20) Meetings on opening sexual norms, streaking; (21:54) Don Knodel resigning; (23:17) Thresher budget and advertising; (24:50) Richard M. Miller hired; (25:48) Rice Summer School courses for secondary school students; (27:47) Patterns and Perspectives journal; (30:28) Donald Baker on Franz Brotzen acting Master at Jones College; (32:13) Baker Shakespeare Faire, Play, and Feast; (33:34) Speaker giving speech [recoding unclear]; (33:30) Lovett College Casino Party promo; (35:09) Women's varsity basketball team vs. Men under 5'8"; (35:52) Rice students arrested for criminal simulation; (36:41) Streak off against University of Houston; (37:42) Lovett College Casino Party budget; (38:39) Rice Program Council events, Rondelet weekend events; (41:55) Doug Sahm's album review and concert preview; (42:50) Prize ticket sales benefitting the Francis Farenthold campaign; (43:13) Musings on music; (43:59) New coach hired; (44:26) Room and board increase; (45:27) Sandy Haven directing Man for All Season for Rice Players; (46:41) Norman Hackerman on out of state quotas. Speakers: Norman Hackerman, Don KNodel, Steve Golvach, Donald Baker, Jerry Curtis
Contents include: [Problems with audio] (00:01) Norman Hackerman on self-study; (01:22) Phi Beta Kappa; (02:22) Rice Pre-Med Society blood drive; (02:46) Goals for Students Association Senate, imminent domain issue; (04:54) Printer issue with wrong date; (05:07) Suggestions for topics for the State of the University address; (06:53) Population conference; (07:30) Sid Richardson College Beer Bike training; (08:01) Beer Bike race review; (08:44) Speaker on Pres. Richard Nixon, a loner, Pres. Lyndon Johnson, extrovert; (10:38) KTRU 250 watt permit read aloud; (11:30) Mime and architecture studies project; (12:39) Theater in Soviet Union project; (13:30) Rice student population statistics and quotas; (14:02) Radio telemetry and electrocardiogram; (14:36) Honor Council ombudsmen; (17:23) Rice Players director's choice preview; (18:07) Leonard Boudin speaking at University of Houston; (18:35) Error checking jobs; (19:18) Richard van Buren at Rice; (19:56) Baker Botts opinion on two pubs at Rice; (21:00) Nationwide campaign for signatures for Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. day; (22:01) TI-2500 Datamath review, birds whistling, calculator reviews; (25:20) Water balloon wars payment and problem. Speakers: Norman Hackerman, Craig Jackson
Contents include: Walt Dickson talks about the Student International Meditation Society and the power of transcendental meditation. Speaker: Walt Dickson
Contents include: Spring - Fall 1974 news master - These clips include interviews or sections from shows that the KTRU staff later cut for their news program and others. (00:01) Student Association elections, campaigns; (01:43) Budweiser Clydesdales; (04:34) Rice Owls cross country team review and interview, Rice Owls football vs. Southern Methodist University review, interview with James Sykes, Edwin Collins affair, Saturday's Children - Rodrigo Barnes, Notre Dame game, interview with Jack Westbrook, Rice soccer team. We deleted radio music and edited technical difficulties on this recording. Speakers: James Sykes, Jack Westbrook
Contents include: On "Consumer Focus," Tom Moe speaks to Debbie Hadjes from TexPIRG and Rand Porteau [sp?] about consumer issues and the elderly and senior citizens. We deleted extraneous audio at the end of this recording. Speaker: Tom Moe, Debbie Hadjes
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: Live music from the Beach Boys and interview snippets from Mike Love. The Beach Boys were on tour with Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young and had recently played in Houston. The interview took place at the Transcendental Meditation headquarters in Highland Village, Houston. Mike Love discusses the tour, his relationship with Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, and transcendental meditation. Because of poor miking, we have enhanced Mike Love's voice. Speakers: Mike Love, Bruce Kessler
Contents include: Live music from the Beach Boys and interview snippets from Mike Love. The Beach Boys were on tour with Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young and had recently played in Houston. The interview took place at the Transcendental Meditation headquarters in Highland Village, Houston. Mike Love discusses the tour, his relationship with Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, and transcendental meditation. Because of poor miking, we have enhanced Mike Love's voice. Speakers: Mike Love, Bruce Kessler
Contents include: On "Backstage Interview," Bruce Kessler talks to Rick Wakeman about his work compares to other modern music, age barriers in music, "Journey to the Centre of the Earth," H.G. Wells, composing, synthesizers, upcoming projects, "The Six Wives of Henry VIII," and touring. Speakers: Rick Wakeman, Bruce Kessler
Contents include: (00:01) Scott Hochberg discusses changes to the youth air travel card. (06:23) Scott Hochberg discusses broadcast companies renewing their licenses and having to answer to the public about issues. Speaker: Scott Hochberg
Contents include: Norman Hackerman's State of the University address covers self-study, goals for the university, Jesse H. Jones School of Administration creation, salary bonuses, improvements to colleges, budget, improvements to existing buildings, proposed new buildings, athletics and funding, minority representation at student and faculty levels, creation of women's intercollegiate athletics, need for renovating the academic quad, student government and committee appointments, Fondren Library, and co-ed colleges. The second audio file has been edited. KTRU recorded Hackerman's address over an episode of the "Rice Report," which is now wrc06272. Speakers: Norman Hackerman
Contents include: "Rice Report" on Chinese government and Pres. Richard Nixon's trip, Vietnam War, and Henry Kissinger. Hackerman's address appears to be recorded over an older tape that discusses Richard Nixon's China trip from 1972. Speakers: Robert Capp, Austin Bay
Contents include: An interview with Chick Corea. He discusses how he creates music, his musical purpose, musical background, his albums Piano Improvisations, Vol. I and Return to Forever, audiences, what he listens to, and his musical and philosophical vision. Speakers: Chick Corea, Bruce Kessler
Contents include: Wheatfield playing in the Baker College commons. Speakers: Connie Mims, Ezra Idlet, Craig Calvert, Bob Russell
Contents include: Wheatfield playing in the Baker College commons. Speakers: Connie Mims, Ezra Idlet, Craig Calvert, Bob Russell
Contents include: Walt Silvus and Calvin Slater talk to George Greanias about "Hello Hamlet," a movie he made with Doug Kilgore, and his play "Wilson." Speakers: George Greanias, Walt Silvus, Calvin Slater
Contents include: (00:01) Audio damaged; (00:23) Rice Annual Telefund; (01:06) Norman Hackerman on tuition; (01:40) MOB not going to Texas A and M game; (02:11) Register to vote; (03:27) University accounting; (03:57) Concentus Musicus Wien at Hamman Hall; (05:09) MOB not going to Texas A and M game; (05:45) Financial Aid payments delayed; (06:23) Clean energy resources; (06:57) Neiman Marcus Christmas catalog; (08:16) Sid Richardson College Oktoberfest; (08:59) Non-hazing balloon toss; (10:02) Pub building budget; (10:51) Amniocentesis film; (12:29) Wheatfield playing in Baker College; (13:04) KTRU airing Pres. Franklin Roosevelt's World War II draft speech; (13:45) Homecoming elections and events; (15:18) Figures on event; (15:44) South Central Modern Language Association convention; (17:25) Student protest; (18:10) Sid Richardson College Oktoberfest; (20:00) Congresswoman Barbara Jordan speaking on campus and other events; (20:24) Telefund; (21:44) Raffle to pay for dance and events; (22:16) Pub construction bids; (23:24) Custom House auction; (24:30) Pub Committee construction decision; (25:19) Shepherd String Quartet formation; (26:38) Star Trek at Rice organization; (28:53) Halloween events; (30:23) Powderpuff season prediction. Because of low audio over halfway through the tape, we have enhanced the audio to make it louder. Speakers: Norman Hackerman, Scott Hochberg, Ken Alexander, Bobby Siever, Stan Barber, Keith Cooper, Rick Goldman
Contents include: On "Backstage Interview," Bruce Kessler talks to members of Triumvirat about writing lyrics in English rather than German, popularity of European bands in U.S., musical influences, their style of music, U.S. popularity, German music market, touring in Europe vs. U.S., naming "Illusions on a Double Dimple," and the story of "Mister Ten Percent." In the middle of the recording, another piece of music interrupts the interview. We removed it. Speakers: Bruce Kessler, Jürgen Fritz, Helmut Köllen, Hans Bathelt
Contents include: Shawn Phillips live at the Houston Music Hall. Speaker: Shawn Phillips
Contents include: Tom Jans discusses his promotional tour and upcoming tour with Billy Joel, how he writes music, how he performs, who he has performed with, and his future plans. He also performs in the studio. Speaker: Tom Jans
Contents include: The Mercurial Theater presents "The Blue Carbuncle." Speakers: Kevin Mayer, Anna Baron, Rick Cordray, Dale Wilson, Joel Slade, D.H. Whalen
Contents include: Mike Oldfield discusses his musical process, use of instruments, the influence of London on his music, his musical past, recording Tubular Bells, playing Tubular Bells live, his current work, and his use of new recording technology. Speaker: Mike Oldfield
Contents include: Gene Roddenberry speaking to the Rice and Houston community on the Rice University campus. He discusses Star Trek, the upcoming film, the show's ethos, how to apply that to other parts of life, and the business of television. This tape contained a live show by Bill and Lucille Cade. It has been deleted and is now wrc06827. Speakers: Gene Roddenberry
Contents include: The live broadcast of Bill and Lucille Cade playing in the Baker College Commons. This recording is a fragment found at the end of wrc06279_02.
Contents include: Bruce Kessler talks to Shawn Phillips about the Night of the Hurricane II Benefit Concert, Paul Robinson, songwriting, Paul Buckmaster, commercial radio, new music, Rubin "Hurricane" Carter, humanity, and environmental issues. Speakers: Shawn Phillips, Bruce Kessler
Contents include: Julius O. Smith, III and Wheatfield in concert at Sammy's on Rice University campus. Speakers: Julius O. Smith, III, Connie Mims, Ezra Idlet, Craig Calvert, Bob Russell
Contents include: Wheatfield in concert at Sammy's on Rice University campus. There are some problems with the audio. Speakers: Connie Mims, Ezra Idlet, Craig Calvert, Bob Russell
Contents include: Wheatfield in concert at Sammy's on Rice University campus. At (49:09), the Wheatfield recording ends and Graham Kendrick begins playing. Speakers: Connie Mims, Ezra Idlet, Craig Calvert, Bob Russell, Graham Kendrick
Contents include: Introduction by Norman Hackerman. In her speech, "A New Dynamic for Higher Education," Margaret Meade talks about her previous experiences at Rice, shifting ideas of growth, understanding how small changes affect the world, protecting the environment, and creating a graduate program that takes a more holistic view of the world. After her speech, she takes questions from the audience. Speakers: Norman Hackerman, Margaret Meade
Contents include: Audio issues at beginning of the recording. Reporter Scott Hochberg speaks with Norman Hackerman and others during the opening of Willy's Pub. Because of audio issues and copywritten radio music, we edited this recording. Speakers: Norman Hackerman, Rod Stevenson, Scott Hochberg, Doug Appling, Steve Golvach
Contents include: On "Backstage Interview," Bruce Kessler talks to Tony Iommi of Black Sabbath about themes on the early albums, music's popularity, band's hiatus, solo albums, touring, and fans. Speakers: Tony Iommi, Bruce Kessler
Contents include: Interviews with various people asking about their reactions to the Rice Owls football game halftime show against University of Houston. Taking place in the Astrodome, the halftime show featured the Marching Owl Band (MOB) doing a satirical show that was cut short by Astrodome staff. The tape has many recording issues. Also, interviewees have not given permission to be broadcast on the radio.
Contents include: Interviews with various people asking about their reactions to the Rice Owls football game halftime show against University of Houston. Taking place in the Astrodome, the halftime show featured the Marching Owl Band (MOB) doing a satirical show that was cut short by Astrodome staff. The tape has many recording issues. Also, interviewees have not given permission to be broadcast on the radio.
Contents include: On "Backstage Interview," Bruce Kessler talks to Frank Zappa about his most recent album, lineup changes, upcoming plans, touring, the stage show, and the meaning behind songs. Speakers: Frank Zappa, Bruce Kessler
Contents include: Daryl Hall and John Oates at the Music Hall perform first followed by Shawn Phillips. Speakers: Daryl Hall, John Oates, Shawn Phillips
Contents include: Shawn Phillips performs at the Music Hall. Speakers: Shawn Phillips
Contents include: On "Backstage Interview," Bruce Kessler and an unknown reporter talks to Graham Nash about post-show analysis, touring, transcendental meditation, band lineup, working with David Crosby, Crosby, Stills, Nash, and Young reunion, new album, connecting with fans via music, songwriting, and writing positive songs. Speakers: Graham Nash, Bruce Kessler
Contents include: Radio Perfidy Theatre presents "2001: A Space Lunacy." Speakers: Bob Brandt, John Hall, John Hester, Bill Kosar, David Presley, Joel Slade, Michael Joe Thannish, Stan Barber, Julia Levy, Cheryl Miskell
Contents include: Wheatfield plays in the Grand Hall in the Rice Memorial Center. At 47:45, changes to another recording of someone singing "Last Lonely Eagle." Speakers: Ezra Idlet, Craig Calvert, Connie Mims, Bob Russell, Damian Hevia
Contents include: Wheatfield plays in the Grand Hall in the Rice Memorial Center. Speakers: Ezra Idlet, Craig Calvert, Connie Mims, Bob Russell, Damian Hevia
Contents include: Wheatfield plays in the Grand Hall in the Rice Memorial Center. Speakers: Ezra Idlet, Craig Calvert, Connie Mims, Bob Russell, Damian Hevia
Contents include: (00:01) Baker Shakespeare Festival; (01:12) Rice Media Center carnival; (02:26) Don Knodel leaving Information Services, Rice; (03:20) Texas State Senate elections; (04:19) Rice Owls football vs. University of Houston MOB halftime controversy; (07:40) William Shatner on Star Trek movie script, Barbary Coast TV show; (08:42) Woman going to see William Shatner; (08:53) Sid Richardson College Oktoberfest; (10:52) Pub opening; (11:20) President of Alumni Association, Homecoming; (11:45) Alum on changes at Rice; (12:00) Rice Owls football vs. Southern Methodist University review; (14:10) National sports, World Football League; (15:14) Al Conover on Rice Owls football vs. University of Texas; (15:52) Rice Program Council cancels show; (16:49) Rice Owls football vs. University of Texas review; (21:44) Houston Oilers season, Pan-Am games, college football games; (23:08) Rice Owls football vs. Texas Tech, college football, World Football League; (24:18) National sports; (25:28) Rice Owls football vs. Texas Tech review; (30:20) College sports, National sports; (31:03) College sports; (31:42) Fiesta Bowl University of Nebraska controversy, National sports, college sports; (32:55) Rice Owls football vs. Texas Christian University review; (33:31) College sports; (34:10) Rice Owls football vs. Baylor review, Southwest Conference, national sports; (35:02) Hanszen College building new commons; (36:24) 1975 Hawaii earthquake; (36:52) Rice Owls basketball vs. Tulane review, national sports, college sports; (37:51) 1975 Hawaii earthquake; (38:10) Fred Hofheinz re-election acceptance speech; (38:58) Frank Briscoe concession speech; (40:46) College sports, national sports; (41:34) Bob Polk on Rice Owls basketball, Rice Owls vs. Texas Wesleyan preview; (43:37) Financial aid; (45:16) Penn State match-up; (45:43) Course schedules; (46:23) Women keeping last name after marriage, Equal Credit Opportunity Act. Speakers: William Shatner, Norman Hackerman, Fred Hofheinz, Frank Briscoe, Bob Polk, Al Conover
Contents include: (00:01) KTRU takes you to Planet Gong; (00:50) Radio Gnome Invisible by Gong; (01:54) "You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown" at Wiess College review; (05:09) Bumper sticker promos; (06:55) The Aggie War Hymn and other songs; (10:09) Song from "You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown"; (13:23) "The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man in the Moon Marigolds" by the Rice Players review; (17:03) "Wonderful Sausage," bumper sticker promo, KTRU cocktail party; (20:36) Lovett College and Jones College production "Come Blow Your Horn" review; (22:35) Bijou Theatre Experimental Film Festival review; (24:42) "Don Giovanni" at Houston Grand Opera review; (27:49) "Henry IV, Part I" Baker Shakespeare review; (31:36) "Hello Hamlet" promos; (33:55) "Hello Hamlet" review; (39:19) "Out at Sea" and "The Maids" by the Rice Players review. Speakers: Stan Barber, Scott Hochberg, Ronny Newman, Patti Bellis, Mike Parmet
Contents include: NBC News reporters discuss the mood in the U.S., presidential candidates, energy policy, Spain, Lebanon, the press and Pres. Gerald Ford, Ann Armstrong, Russia, Welles Hangen, press abuse of power, the mood in the U.S., presidential candidates, energy policy, Spain, Lebanon, the press and Pres. Gerald Ford, Ann Armstrong, Russia, and Welles Hangen. During the question and answer portion starts with the six correspondents introducing themselves. They then take questions on the following topics: Ann Armstrong, foreign policy, presidential gaffs, world economy, energy, press and Pres. Richard Nixon, Israel, Lebanon, women in U.S. government, Leonid Brezhnev, Russian power struggles, political polling, Concorde controversy, the Middle East, Angola, and the Italian communist party. KPRC broadcasted this event. Speakers: Irving R. Levine, Richard Valeriani, Carole Simpson, Steve Delaney, Tom Pettit, Garrick Utley, Ray Miller
Contents include: Balcones Fault perform live in Hamman Hall. Speakers: Fletcher Clark, Jack Jacobs, Kerry Kimbrough, Steve Blodgett, Michael McGeary
Contents include: During the press conference, Norman Hackerman announces the hiring of Homer Rice as the new Rice Owls football coach and athletic director. Homer Rice speaks about his decision to work for Rice University and takes questions. He discusses the Total Person Program and his upcoming plans for the football program. Speakers: Norman Hackerman, Homer Rice
Contents include: Scott Hochberg discusses the issue of oil drilling by Brown Co. in Houston's Memorial Park with a panel. Because of radio music, we edited the end of this recording. Speakers: Scott Hochberg, Frank Calhoun, Earl G. Covington
Contents include: The Houston City Council meeting on drilling oil at Memorial Park. This is not a complete tape of the proceedings.
Contents include: Interview with Lane Denton running for Railroad Commission. Denton discusses legislative history, energy options, strip mining, telephone rate increases, and natural resources. Speakers: Lane Denton
Contents include: Bruce Kessler interviews the members of the Commodores. They discuss their history as a singing group, touring with the Jackson 5, song arrangement, their upcoming tour with The Rolling Stones, and aspiring to be the black Beatles. Speakers: Lionel Richie, Thomas McClary, Bruce Kessler, William King
Contents include: Bruce Kessler interviews Gary Wright. He discusses the song "Dreamweaver" and the album, his music history, Spooky Tooth, and session work with George Harrison and others. Speakers: Bruce Kessler, Gary Wright
Contents include: Bill Haymes plays Woody Guthrie's music and discusses Guthrie's life. He plays at the Hanszen B and P. This recording has been altered to delete radio music from a previous recording. Speakers: Bill Haymes
Contents include: Ron Paul, running for the April 1976 special election for Texas's 22nd congressional district, talks about attorneys, low voter turnout, crime, socialism, national debt, currency, the free market, lowering taxes, privatizing the U.S. Postal Service, and inflation. Speaker: Ron Paul
Contents include: On "Backstage Interview," Bruce Kessler talks to Sammy Hagar about touring, songwriting, musical influences, new album, Montrose, vocals, "Urban Gorilla," forming bands post-Montrose, and Elvis Presley. Speakers: Sammy Hagar, Bruce Kessler
Contents include: 47 Times Its Own Weight playing live at Willy's Pub's first birthday celebration. Speakers: 47 Times Its Own Weight
Contents include: 47 Times Its Own Weight playing live at Willy's Pub's first birthday celebration. Because of radio music, we edited wrc06524_02 at the beginning and the end of the recording. Speakers: 47 Times Its Own Weight
Contents include: Vince Bell performs live at the Hanszen B and P. Speaker: Vince Bell
Contents include: Birthday show in honor of 5th anniversary of KTRU. The program outlines the history of the radio station, including its coverage of the Masterson Crisis, Charles Freeman, disturbances at Allen Center, the selection of Norman Hackerman, the opening of Pub, the hiring of Homer Rice, arts, and comedy clips. Speakers: Stan Barber
Contents include: Question and answer session with Pres. Gerald Ford in Houston before the May 1 Texas primary. He discusses the campaign, his record, his challenger Ronald Reagan, Panama Canal renegotiations, divestiture bill, Watergate books and film, military funding, social programs, Pres. Richard Nixon, Cuba, and budget. Because of poor recording, we have altered the original audio and removed a section that interrupted the intended recording. Speaker: Gerald Ford
Contents include: Pres. Gerald Ford addressing the Houston Builders Association. He discusses Houston construction, federal funding for construction, U.S. economy, and military increases. After speech, association members ask questions on construction issues. At 39:42, there is an old recording about civil statues. Speaker: Gerald Ford
Contents include: Boz Scaggs discusses his albums Slow Dancer and Silk Degrees, musical influences, writing music and lyrics, and performing live. Speakers: Bruce Kessler, Boz Scaggs
Contents include: On "Backstage Interview," Bruce Kessler interviews Daryl Hall and John Oates. The duo discusses their musical backgrounds, their history together, their early albums, work with Todd Rundgren on War Babies, genre change with War Babies, and working on new album. Speakers: Daryl Hall, John Oates, Bruce Kessler
Contents include: (00:01) NBC correspondents at Rice; (01:26) Charles Daniels controversy; (02:21) Add/drop courses; (02:57) Recruiting; (03:58) Applications for job; (04:24) Thresher salary increases; (05:34) Opinions on Thresher, salary increase; (08:48) Stan Barber is a nitwit; (09:09) Charles Daniels controversy; (10:32) Hiring of David Hunt, Director of Financial Aid; (12:28) Acoustics installation in Willy's Pub, funding new ideas; (15:37) Football coach search; (17:31) Thresher salary increase vote; (18:01) Homer Rice to be offered coaching job; (19:50) Homer Rice news conference; (25:05) Ford Administration meetings with Houston; (26:54) Thresher salary increase vote failed, Student Association meeting; (27:50) Homer Rice press conference; (28:58) Stan Barber interview with Joyce Rubash on food quality; (34:11) Rice Owls track Olympic trials, Jeff Wells; (36:38) Valhalla crime incident; (38:39) Department of Biology, curriculum additions, labs; (40:11) Memorial Park oil wells; (43:13) Universities Space Research Association institutes; (45:04) Accounting profession. Speakers: Stan Barber, Charles Daniels, Lee Hochberg, Norman Hackerman, Homer Rice, James Castaneda, Dana Blankenhorn, Joyce Rubash, Jeff Wells, C.B. Bernick
Contents include: (00:01) University evaluation day, the role of the university; (02:04) Zip code realignment; (03:14) Survey of issue; (03:48) Gazilcher at Sid Richardson College; (04:51) Financial aid; (05:35) Student Association election candidates; (06:51) "From the Perspective of Professionals" panel; (10:08) Student opinions on convocation; (13:36) University standing committees; (15:37) Stephen Klineberg at convocation; (17:02) Workshop on introductory courses; (18:10) Course summary; (19:39) Campanile publishing issue; (20:35) Campanile dispersal; (20:49) Athlete training; (21:01) Rice Alternative Basketball Team challenges Rice Owls basketball team; (22:11) Student Association elections; (22:48) Farmer's Market; (23:43) Meal plans; (26:45) Candidate financial statements; (27:30) Basketball player; (27:43) Rice Owls basketball game play-by-play; (30:55) University of Texas underrated team; (31:39) Willy's Pub changes; (34:34) President's Honor Roll; (36:41) Homer Rice on student involvement in athletic program; (38:39) MOB at Mardi Gras in New Orleans; (39:57) Summer school course summaries; (43:41) Rice Owls baseball review; (44:26) St. Patrick's Day dance; (45:04) Student Association elections; (45:33) Student Association meeting review. Speakers: Larry Fossi, Stephen Klineberg, Craig Ball, James Morehead, Stan Barber, Homer Rice, Jim Cobb, Bill Wade
Contents include: Spring 1976 news master (00:01) Committee on the Convocation; (01:57) Mail delivery; (02:55) Nature class at arboretum; (05:09) Republican primary; (05:24) New Hanszen College commons; (06:08) Athletics press conference, athletes admissions, facilities, recruiting; (09:01) Student Association meeting review, elections; (11:49) Norman Hackerman on recruiting; (12:28) Room and board increases; (14:06) Committee anxious; (15:10) Gilbert Cuthbertson on primaries and John Connally, Will Rice College room jack; (26:18) Birds on campus, tree pruning; (29:18) Female College Master at a male college; (32:22) The role of the master; (34:45) Student Association election controversy; (35:04) Oil drilling in Memorial Park; (36:08) University of Texas Student Association president joke candidate. Speakers: Roy Bellar, Homer Rice, Norman Hackerman, Gilbert Cuthbertson, Constantine Armeniades, Katherine Tsanoff Brown
Contents include: (00:01) Gilbert Cuthbertson; (00:46) Memorial Park oil drilling; (02:08) "We Can Do It" workshop; (04:32) Student Association election controversy; (05:09) Summer chillers, closing down buildings, Resident Associates; (07:49) Hasnzen College B and P coffeehouse; (09:10) Houston bond election; (10:09) Memorial Park oil drilling; (11:12) Miller Theater Spring festival; (13:48) Rice Media Center presents King Vidor; Government Policy in the Arts panel; Art in American in the 1930s and Now; (20:04) Masters Committee finalizing new Masters for Sid Richardson and Will Rice College; (21:09) Ron Paul special election; (24:04) River Oaks World Championship of Tennis tournament; (27:54) Rice Owls baseball game preview; (29:01) William Martin and Constantine Armeniades named Masters; (29:53) Memorial Park oil drilling. Speakers: Stan Barber, Norman Hackerman, Barbie Siever, Tom Moe, Jim Cobb
Contents include: (00:01) Will Rice College student opinion of Constantine Armeniades; (01:55) River Oaks World Championship of Tennis tournament; (04:03) Admissions; (04:44) F. Barry Dunning wins Sloan Fellowship for Basic Research; (05:48) Energy speaker; (06:20) Robert R. Sterling appointed Dean of Jones Business School; (10:18) Critique of government funded art, foreign aid; (11:58) Severe weather tips; (14:21) Mailings; (14:33) Ronald Reagan not electable; (15:23) Alumni on the Board of Trustees; (15:54) I-610 jackknife; (16:38) Scientific research funding slowing; (17:25) Hare and the Hound race; (18:02) Tennesse primary results; (19:21) Honor Council violation. Speakers: Barbie Siever, James Castaneda, Stan Barber, Robert Sterling, Tom Moe, Norman Hackerman, Jim Cobb
Contents include: On "Backstage Interview," Bruce Kessler talks to Cecilio and Kapono about their acoustic style, songwriting, touring, new music, and working together. Speakers: Henry Kapono Ka'aihue, Cecilio David Rodriguez, Bruce Kessler
Contents include: On "Backstage Interview," Bruce Kessler talks Fee Waybill of The Tubes about integrating visuals to music, difficulties recording "The Tubes," easier to record "Young and Rich," live shows, stage crew, character inspirations, new charcters, album notes, and comparisons to KISS. Speakers: Bruce Kessler, Fee Waybill
Contents include: (00:01) Gary Wright; (00:13) Iggy Pop; (00:25) Graham Parker; (00:34) Boz Scaggs; (00:44) Eric Bloom; (00:59) Fee Waybill; (01:12) Stevie Nicks; (01:31) Mick Fleetwood; (01:44) Janis Ian; (01:53) Frank Zappa; (02:08) Rick Wakeman; (02:15) Jon Anderson; (02:22) Rick Nielsen; (02:56) Cheap Trick; (03:22) Hall and Oates; (03:32) Brad Delp; (03:46) Robert Klein; (04:19) Jan Hammer; (04:32) Joan Jett and Lee Crystal; (04:49) Joe "King" Carrasco; (05:24) Phil Woods; (05:38) Roger McGuinn; (05:54) Walter Cronkite; (06:07) Charlotte Caffey and Kathy Valentine; (06:50) Laurie Anderson; (08:01) Andy McCluskey; (08:09) Dr. Rockit and the Sisters of Mercy; (09:17) Bill Nolan; (09:32) Brian Setzer; (09:43) Brian O'Neill; (09:55) Lee Rocker; (10:10) Slim Jim Phantom; (10:42) The Bangles; (11:13) Dee Dee Ramone; (11:39) Joey Ramone; (12:09) Johnny Ramone; (12:22) Marc Moreland; (13:02) Lene Lovich; (13:14) King Sunny Adé; (14:10) Fred Schneider and Keith Strickland. Speakers: Gary Wright, Iggy Pop, Graham Parker, Boz Scaggs, Eric Bloom, Fee Waybill, Stevie Nicks, Mick Fleetwood, Janis Ian, Frank Zappa, Rick Wakeman, Jon Anderson, Rick Nielsen, Daryl Hall, John Oates, Brad Delp, Robert Klein, Jan Hammer, Joan Jett, Lee Crystal, Joe "King" Currasco, Phil Woods, Roger McGuinn, Walter Cronkite, Charlotte Caffey, Kathy Valentin, Laurie Anderson, Andy McCluskey, Rock Romano, Bill Nolan, Brian Setzer, Brian O'Neill, Lee Rocker, Slim Jim Phantom, Dee Dee Ramone, Joey Ramone, Johnny Ramone, Marc Moreland, Lene Lovich, King Sunny Adé, Fred Schneider, Keith Strickland
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: Larry Fossi reports on the upcoming selection of Jimmy Carter as the democratic presidential candidate, Rep. Barbara Jordan's speech, and speculation on Carter's vice presidential selection. We deleted radio music at the beginning of the recording. Speakers: Larry Fossi, Stan Barber
Contents include: Stan Barber interviews State Congressman Alan Steelman on the topics of his voting record, the Trinity project, reviewing federal laws at the state level, abortion, retirement age, and his opponent Sen. Lloyd Bentsen. Speakers: Stan Barber, Alan Steelman
Contents include: Stan Barber interviews students on their views on co-ed colleges for the show Rice Thoughts. Students discuss the programs successes. As for the merits of the single sex college, some students think co-ed colleges make men more docile, lack privacy, and cause co-ed college alienation. We fixed a reversed audio issue, but ended up deleting the material, since it was only outtakes. Speaker: Stan Barber
Contents include: (00:01) Rice Owls football vs. Utah preview; (02:21) Pets on campus; (02:59) Homer Rice on Rice Owls football vs. Utah preview; (03:45) Jimmy Carter campaign, visit to Houston; (09:25) Gentle Art of Sports Betting, college sports; (10:58) Stop smoking course. Speaker: Dana Blankenhorn
Contents include: Presidential candidate Jimmy Carter speaks to reporters after getting off of his airplane. He discusses the previous night's debate, issues with Pres. Gerald Ford, the Playboy article, and his religion. Then, there is a political rally in which Mayor Fred Hofheinz, Senator Lloyd Bentsen, Governor Dolph Briscoe, and Jimmy Carter speak. KTRU reporters also speak with protest groups at the rally. We deleted dead air throughout the recording. Speakers: Jimmy Carter, Fred Hofheinz, Lloyd Bentsen, Dolph Briscoe
Contents include: St. Elmo's Fire playing live at KTRU. During the interview portions, the band discusses their first performance, their music recordings, Caliban with the Houston Ballet, changing their name from Wheatfield to St. Elmo's Fire, the steps to recording an album, choosing a record company, and the story behind some of their songs. They also create stations IDs. This is a poor recording. Speakers: Ezra Idlet, Connie Mims, Craig Calvert, Damian Hevia, Keith Grimwood
Contents include: Stephen Jarrard playing live on the "Arbuckle Flat" radio program. It is a poor recording. Speakers: Stephen Jarrard, Trip Doss
Contents include: Bill Cade on the "Arbuckle Flat" radio program. It starts with a quick conversation with Bill Cade and his band, and then moves onto Cade playing live in the studio. Speakers: Bill Cade, Trip Doss
Contents include: On "Backstage Interview," Bruce Kessler talks to members of the band Boston about their tour, production values, Scholz's basement studio, popular songs, regional popularity, album cover, musical influences, sound effects, lyrics, and The Beatles. Speakers: Tom Scholz, Sib Hashian, Barry Goudreau, Brad Delp, Fran Sheehan
Contents include: Democratic candidate for the U.S. House of Representatives Bob Gammage discusses Rep. Ron Paul and his libertarian values, Paul's voting record, National Science Foundation grant funding, gun control, and oil and gas. Speakers: Bob Gammage, Ron Paul
Contents include: (00:01) Pres. Gerald Ford and Jimmy Carter reports; (07:29) Political and international news, DJ practicing; (10:07) Music; (11:20) "Yellow Submarine" broadcast sign-off; (12:43) Great Flood anniversary; (16:13) "Yellow Submarine" broadcast sign-off ; (17:42) Not Necessarily True News with fake commercials. Speakers: Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter, Lee Hochberg, David Zumwalt
Contents include: Reporting on the 1976 national and local elections. Various guests, KTRU DJs, and others discuss the incoming election results. Speakers: Gilbert Cuthbertson, Joel Laser, David Butler, Ray Hutchinson, Patti Bellis, Stan Barber, Ken Meyer, Dana Blankenhon, John Connally, Bob Gammage, Scott Hochberg, Ron Paul, Lloyd Bentsen, Bill Hobby, Hubert Holmes
Contents include: Reporting on the 1976 national and local elections. Various guests, KTRU DJs, and others discuss the incoming election results. Speakers: Lee Hochberg, David Butler, Tom Moe, Stan Barber, Bob Gammage, Hubert Holmes, Ray Hutchinson
Contents include: Dr. Mike Kessick, Environmental Engineering, Noel Shenoi, Rice Recycling Center, Jerry Akers of the Sierra Club, and Duane Marks discuss recycling and environmental efforts on campus, in Houston, and nationally. They also discuss pollution in Houston. Towards the end of the recording, the recording speed increases causing the voices to sound strange and eventually unrecognizable. We fixed this issue, but there is some residual distortion. Speakers: Mike Kessick, Noel Shenoi, Jerry Akers, Duane Marks
Contents include: Al Stewart playing live in Philadelphia at the Tower Theatre via radio station WMMR. At 01:23:41, Frankie Vee and the Village Boys live in Baker Commons on 1976-10-15. The recording is poor. The second recording was probably left over from a previous recorded broadcast. Speakers: Al Stewart, Frankie Vee and the Village Boys
Contents include: Montrose Marching Band playing live on the "Arbuckle Flat" radio program. We deleted radio music at the end of this recording. Speakers: Montrose Marching Band, Trip Doss
Contents include: John Grimaudo playing live on the "Arbuckle Flat" radio program. Speakers: John Grimaudo, Trip Doss
Contents include: Stan Barber interviews Houston Mayor Fred Hofheinz. They discuss the Southwestern Bell Telephone Co., Houston water quality, enforcing vehicle laws, elections, the June 15, 1976 flood, the recent national election, drunk driving, and park. Speakers: Stan Barber, Fred Hofheinz
Contents include: Reb Smith playing live on the "Arbuckle Flat" radio program. Speakers: Reb Smith, Trip Doss
Contents include: An interview with Rice Owls Basketball Coach Bob Polk. He discusses Rice's poor SWC basketball rankings, Coach Eddie Sutton, recruitment, the upcoming line-up, scholarships, and low student attendance at games. At times, the audio quality is poor. Speakers: Bob Polk, Dana Blankenhorn
Contents include: (00:01) Director of Athletics and Football Coach Homer Rice on the 1976 season and the problems that plagued it, like player injuries; (05:26) Interview with quarterback Tommy Kramer about his college career and the NFL draft; (12:04) Interview with Doug Cunningham and Doug Houser about the football season; (24:07) Homer Rice continues to speak on wanting to improve the women's sports program, as well as football; (27:32) Interview with Wes Hansen, Steve Pasterchick, Doug Loafman, Don Rutledge, and Bobby Scheihing on the football season. Audio quality is poor at times. Speakers: Homer Rice, Tommy Kramer, Doug Cunningham, Dave Houser, Wes Hansen, Steve Pasterchick, Doug Loafman, Don Rutledge, Bobby Scheihing
Contents include: Eric Taylor playing live on the "Arbuckle Flat" radio program. Speakers: Eric Taylor, Trip Doss
Contents include: Norman Hackerman takes questions from students. He discusses the university's decade long plan, the library's budget, faculty salaries, the role of the university president, over enrollment, funding for intramural sports and women's sports, admitting more out of state students, food services, the proctor's authority, support for clubs and organizations, the women's sports program, co-ed colleges, Resident Associates and Masters, and student apathy. Speakers: Norman Hackerman
Contents include: Me and Paul performing live in Willy's Pub. Speakers: James "Bubba" Hudson, Paul Rafferty
Contents include: Me and Paul performing live in Willy's Pub. Speakers: James "Bubba" Hudson, Paul Rafferty
Contents include: Me and Paul performing live in Willy's Pub. Speakers: James "Bubba" Hudson, Paul Rafferty
Contents include: The Rice Chorale sings Christmas songs. Speakers: Rice Chorale
Contents include: (00:01) Rice Players' "Spoon River Anthology" review; (02:23) Wiess College's "Charlie's Aunt"; (05:18) "Lady Has No Heart" by St. Elmo's Fire; (10:06) "Let It Pour"; (12:54) "Come into My Own"; (17:54) Houston Symphony review; (21:21) Captain Lonely; (24:48) "Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore" review; (27:51) St. Elmo's Fire concert promo; (29:39) "Pink Panther Strikes Again" review; (32:46) Sid Richardson College's "Dirty Work at the Crossroads" review; (35:12) "Dirty Work at the Crossroads" promo; (35:54) Billy Joel and Fever Tree concert review; (39:39) Blear's Weatherbeaten Paint; (41:05) Theme from "Bridge Over the River Kwai"; (43:49) Musical interlude; (44:18) Wind howling. Speakers: Stan Barber, John Gladu, Cullen Duke, James Aronovsky, Grungy
Contents include: State Rep. Ron Waters and challenger Dan King discussed their political positions. There are problems with the audio. We deleted radio music at the beginning and ending of the recording. The recording was also too low with loud white noise, which we have removed. Speakers: Ron Waters, Dan King
Contents include: (00:01) Rice Owls football vs. University of Texas preview; (02:37) College football; (04:12) Homer Rice on Rice Owls football; (0:58) Football stats and scoring; (05:28) Signal equipment upgraded; (05:59) College football; (07:09) Employees; (07:44) Gentle Art of Sports Betting; (09:28) Daily motivation for athletes; (09:58) Option play; (10:18) Football player on team; (10:53) Club sports; (11:33) Professional baseball, sports betting; (13:14) Football player on team; (13:57) Passing quarterback; (14:25) Homer Rice on SWC; (15:16) Mental health clinic; (16:41) Presidential vote, Dr. W.A. Criswell; (17:38) Course; (18:52) ASPCA animal euthanasia, pet education; (20:28) Walter Mondale and Bob Dole debate review; (23:27) Rice Owls football vs. Texas Tech review, college football; (24:21) Withholding tax skit; (25:29) Gentle Art of Sports Betting; (26:36) Journalists interviewing professors; (26:58) Homer Rice on coaching; (27:38) Student on football team; (28:09) College football; (29:13) Football player on team; (29:31) Homer Rice on team; (30:19) Liberal disillusionment survey; (31:31) Ron Paul question and answer session; (32:26) Gentle Art of Sports Betting; (33:57) Texans for Pres. Gerald Ford campaign; (35:33) Bob Gammage on government subsidizing of research; (36:38) Opponent of Bob Gammage; (37:15) Bob Gammage on opponent; (37:49) Political candidates visit Houston, Texas Democratic stronghold; (39:48) Jimmy Carter family on political polls, campaigning; (41:31) Jimmy Carter family campaigning; (42:20) Eugene McCarthy campaign and polls; (43:40) Convocation; (44:22) High school education; (44:52) Rosalynn Carter on mental health; (45:35) Texas Trails Association. Speakers: Dana Blankenhorn, Homer Rice, Tom Selman, Bill Wade, Bob Gammage, Lee Hochberg, Rosalynn Carter
Contents include: (00:01) Gentle Art of Sports Betting; (02:02) Gentle Art of Sports Betting; (04:42) Gentle Art of Sports Betting; (06:23) Gentle Art of Sports Betting; (08:33) Tommy Kramer, football profits, student fans; (11:21) Southwest Conference games review; (12:18) Gentle Art of Sports Betting, traditions; (14:00) Rice Owls basketball vs. Waylon Baptist College review, college sports; (14:57) Gentle Art of Sports Betting, Heisman trophy, basketball; (16:06) Flu vaccine; (17:59) Hanszen carolers; (18:47) Pilot program languages; (19:35) Rice Owls Women's basketball; (20:10) Opinions; (20:26) Athlete critiquing Rice Owls basketball program, Bob Polk; (22:00) Athlete critiquing rats on basketball team; (22:12) Rice Owls basketball season review; (23:22) Thresher embezzlement case; (28:40) Stafford Stewart and others on the Thresher embezzlement case; (34:00) Student Association election results; (45:26) James M. Waters Creativity Award; (46:50) Texas re-ratification for Equal Rights Amendment. Speakers: Dana Blankenhorn, Peter Camp, Sam Carrington, Lee Hochberg, Stafford Stewart
Contents include: Larry Spencer, Loraine Burling [sp?], and Regan Sermons [sp?] discuss pros and cons of the proposal to create the Westheimer Independent School District, which would break away from the Houston Independent School District. We deleted radio music at the beginning of this recording. Speakers: Stan Barber, Larry Spencer, Hubert Holmes
Contents include: Smokin' Fitz playing live. Location unknown. Speakers: Smokin' Fitz, Rock Romano
Contents include: Lee Hochberg and Patti Bellis interview Jacques Cousteau about his Involvement Day event in Houston at the Albert Thomas Convention Center. Speakers: Jacques Cousteau, Patti Bellis, Lee Hochberg, Liz Murphy, Alex Schmandt
Contents include: Al Stewart playing live. Location unknown. Speaker: Al Stewart
Contents include: On the show "Africa," Craig Jackson talks with Dr. Rose Brewer, Visiting Sociology professor, about the book and mini-series "Roots," its influence in universities, Black history courses, the world slave trade, and white reactions to the book and mini-series. We have deleted radio music at the beginning and at the end of the recording. Speakers: Craig Jackson, Rose Brewer
Contents include: Bruce Kessler interviews Joan Jett and Sandy West of The Runaways. They discuss how the band formed, early gigs, playing on tour, current set list, cover songs, musical training, musical influences, press coverage, life changes, gaining more female fans, other all-female bands, future plans, songwriting, Kim Fowley, their punk persona, and their sound. Because of sound issues, we have altered this file to increase the volume of Joan Jett and Sandy West's voices. Speakers: Bruce Kessler, Joan Jett, Sandy West
Contents include: Lynn Langham playing live on the "Arbuckle Flat" radio program. Because of recording issues, we corrected the speed. Speakers: Lynn Langham, Trip Doss
Contents include: Lynn Langham playing live on the "Arbuckle Flat" radio program. Because of recording issues, we corrected the speed. Speaker: Lynn Langham, Trip Doss
Contents include: This is a debate organized by Ken Meier. Patti Bellis is the moderator, and Ken Meier asked questions of the panel. Helen Cassidy and Frances "Poppy" Northcutt support the ERA, while Wanda Schultz and Frank Chiles are against the amendment. This is a shorter version of the original broadcast. Speakers: Patti Bellis, Helen Cassidy, Frances "Poppy" Northcutt, Ken Meier, Wanda Schultz, Frank Chiles
Contents include: This is a debate organized by Ken Meier. Patti Bellis is the moderator, and Ken Meier asked questions of the panel. Helen Cassidy and Frances "Poppy" Northcutt support the ERA, while Wanda Schultz and Frank Chiles are against the amendment. This is the original version of the KTRU broadcast. Speakers: Patti Bellis, Helen Cassidy, Frances "Poppy" Northcutt, Ken Meier, Wanda Schultz, Frank Chiles
Contents include: Moderator Lee Hochberg talks with Keith Kingbay, Mike van Dusen, and Mark Robinson about bicycles in the city, touring, registration, and safety. Speakers: Keith Kingbay, Lee Hochberg, Mark Robinson
Contents include: The Rice Players perform Tom Stoppard's Albert's Bridge. Peter Redding, John "Grungy" Gladu, Steve Charles, Mark Brennan, Dave Presley, Kathleen Gammill, Julia Levy, Mark Bouler
Contents include: Ken Donell and Malcolm Smith playing live on the "Arbuckle Flat" radio program. Speakers: Ken Donnell, Malcolm Smith, Trip Doss
Contents include: Former Texas Governonr and U.S. Treasurer John Connally speaks at Rice University. He discusses creativity in the public interest, agriculture, funding research and development, raw materials, competing with world markets, term limits, energy resources, and taxes. We deleted music and a fragment of a lecture at the end of the recording. Speakers: Norman Hackerman, John Connally
Contents include: Bruce Kessler interviews Chip Monck. He discusses opening night of the Summit, The Rumble in the Jungle and Zaire 74, his production manager work on Neil Young's tour, working with performers and others, Altamount Free Concert, and the Rolling Stones American Tour 1972. Speakers: Bruce Kessler, Chip Monck
Contents include: Bubbha Thomas and the Lightmen Plus One playing live in Willy's Pub as part of Black History Week programming. Speakers: Bubbha Thomas, Jimmy Walker, Virgil Solomon, Tuesday Galiano, Spudy Hunter
Contents include: Bubbha Thomas and the Lightmen Plus One playing live in Willy's Pub as part of Black History Week programming. We deleted radio music at the beginning of this recording. Speakers: Bubbha Thomas, Jimmy Walker, Virgil Solomon, Tuesday Galiano, Spudy Hunter
Contents include: Bruce Kessler interviews Billy Joel. He discusses his performance style, his lyrics, his music style, school, new album "Turnstiles," impersonating other performers on stage, writing song overtures, how he writes music and lyrics, and his musical training. Speakers: Bruce Kessler, Billy Joel
Contents include: Bruce Kessler interviews Scott Gorham from Thin Lizzy. He discusses touring with Queen, album covers, and album recording. Speakers: Scott Gorham, Bruce Kessler
Contents include: News story on Student Association discussing whether to re-run the election for Thresher editor. Speakers: Kim Brown, Phillip Parker, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: Dr. Robert R. Sterling, first dean of the Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business, gives a speech to the Alumni Institute. He discusses his hometown Bugtussle, explores Adam Smith's laissez faire economics vs. central planning, stock investment, national debt, social security, and the national gas shortage. Incomplete recording. Speaker: Robert R. Sterling
Contents include: The moderators for "Up in the Air" speaks to Marion Hicks and Joyce Rubash. They discuss summer housing, parking, food preparation, the food committee, religious food observances, air conditioning, Sammy's, off-road damage on campus, college night food, rwaiters and student food staff, Cohen House renovation and events, Rice food co-op, yogurt, self-service vs. table service, and the Central Kitchen laundry fire. Speakers: Marion Hicks, Stan Barber, Joyce Rubash
Contents include: Gloria Shatto, Associate Dean and Professor of Economics at Georgia Tech College of Management speaks to the Alumni Institute. She speaks about corporate philanthropy. Recording abruptly ends. Speakers: Gloria Shatto
Contents include: Bruce Kessler interviews Janis Ian. She discusses touring, interviews, humility, college, musical influences, and songwriting. Speakers: Bruce Kessler, Janis Ian
Contents include: Eric Taylor and Nanci Griffith playing live on the "Arbuckle Flat" radio program. There are some conversations with the singers, as well as performances separately and together. Speakers: Trip Doss, Eric Taylor, Nanci Griffith
Contents include: The best of show presents live music by John Grimaudo, Stephen Jarrard, Don Sanders, and Bill Cade. We deleted radio music from the beginning of this program. Speakers: John Grimaudo, Stephen Jarrard, Don Sanders, Bill Cade, Trip Doss
Contents include: Danny Everitt playing live on the "Arbuckle Flat" radio program. Speakers: Danny Everitt, Trip Doss
Contents include: Lee Hochberg interviews Donald Freeling, the Executive Vice President of the McGraw-Hill Book Company, about textbook selection and increasing textbook access. Speakers: Donald Freeling, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: Stan Barber talks to Linda Driscoll and Gale Stokes about the summer program and the co-ed colleges. We deleted radio music at the beginnig of the recording. Speakers: Gale Stokes, Stan Barber, Linda Driscoll
Contents include: On "Backstage Interview," Bruce Kessler talks to Todd Rundgren about altering sound, Utopia, managing his career, creating videos for his music, and writing music for performance/concerts. Speakers: Todd Rundgren, Bruce Kessler
Contents include: Bruce Kessler speaks to members of Renaissance about the band's line-up, audience reaction, songwriting, influences, similar music, playing live, timelessness of their music, and plans post-tour. Speakers: Annie Haslam, Bruce Kessler
Contents include: Jack Saunders playing live on the "Arbuckle Flat" radio program. Speakers: Jack Saunders, Trip Doss
Contents include: Bruce Kessler interviews Peter Gabriel. He discusses his self-titled solo album and cover, his music post-Genesis, theatricality, avoiding Genesis material on tour, why he left Genesis, and composing and playing music. Speakers: Bruce Kessler, Peter Gabriel
Contents include: Dan Gibbs playing live on the "Arbuckle Flat" radio program. Joyce Lamar performs a song. Speakers: Joyce Lamar, Dan Gibbs, Trip Doss
Contents include: On "Up in the Air," Stan Barber speaks to Mary Lee Wood [sp?], Carvel Glen, John Langdon [sp?]. They discuss mass transit, park and ride, mini-buses, transportation maps, and funding. We deleted radio music at the beginning of this recording. Speakers: Stan Barber, Carvel Glen
Contents include: On "Up in the Air," Stan Barber takes calls about the Committee of Masters and Presidents suggestion of banning pets (cats and dogs) on campus. We deleted radio music at the beginning of this recording. Speakers: Lee Hochberg, Stan Barber
Contents include: Andrew F. Brimmer gives a speech as part of the President's Lecture Series. His talk is titled "Constraints and Opportunities in the Management of National Economic Policy." He discusses inflation and the Federal Reserve. This recording is not the full lecture, only the question and answer section. Speakers: Andrew F. Brimmer
Contents include: On "To the Point," Stan Barber talks to Dr. Neils Neilsen about Pres. Jimmy Carter's religious views and how that affects his presidency. Speakers: Neils Neilsen, Stan Barber
Contents include: On "Up in the Air," Stan Barber speaks to Kenneth Eng and Art Jones. They discuss the Department of Parks and Recreation events and park planning. We deleted radio music at the beginning of this recording. Speakers: Stan Barber, Kenneth Eng, and Art Jones
Contents include: On "To the Point," Rob Wilds talks to Joyce Rubash about the metric system in the kitchen. Speakers: Rob Wilds, Joyce Rubash
Contents include: On "To the Point," Phil Konstantin talks to Helen Havens, Episcopal priest, and Jones College Master about women in the Episcopal priesthood. Speakers: Phil Konstantin, Helen Havens
Contents include: On "To the Point," Stan Barber talks to Frank Bearden about physical fitness, heart attacks, and the university's fitness program. Speakers: Stan Barber, Frank Bearden
Contents include: (00:01) Representative on Equal Rights Amendment; (01:01) Fair Legislative Day; (01:34) Texas Equal Rights Amendment, states ratifying ERA; (03:00) Energy infinite; (03:46) Huey P. Newton on his return to the United States; (09:39) National Audubon Society Rare Animal Release Efforts, whaling; (11:23) Fire at Central Kitchen laundry room; (12:41) New election for Thresher editor; (19:38) Student Association elections; (22:05) Rice Recycling Center; (23:44) Relationship with Trinity University; (24:33) Grungy's weather forecast; (25:06) Presidential Republican primary; (26:21) Lee Hochberg leaving a message; (27:02) Accidental suicide on campus; (28:01) Student Association meeting review; (31:58) Beer Bike track hazards; (32:32) Thresher editor re-vote; (33:05) Spring Fair at Delmar Stadium; (34:00) Hiring of Mike Schuler as Rice Owls basketball coach; (35:04) Thresher editor controversy; (36:48) No new Thresher editor elections; (39:07) Rice Education program; (40:48) Texas Visitor Industry statistics. Speakers: Huey P. Newton, Kim Brown, Phillip Parker, Lee Hochberg, John Gladu, Grungy, Stan Barber, Patti Bellis
Contents include: This is a rough cut of Stan Barber's Space Shuttle Enterprise broadcast. He interviews Dwayne Koontz and Dick Hoover about the orbiter. We have deleted the radio music at the end of the tape. Speakers: Stan Barber, Dwayne Koontz, Dick Hoover
Contents include: The band discusses their work on Caliban with the Houston Symphony and the National Entertainer Conference. Speakers: Ezra Idlet, Connie Mims, Craig Calvert, Damian Hevia, Keith Grimwood
Contents include: Patrolman Don Williams of the Community Relations Division of the Crime Prevention Unit of the Houston Police Department discusses residential burglaries, repeat burglaries by drug offenders, crime prevention tips, rape, and how the police can help citizens be pro-active. We deleted radio music at the beginning and ending of this recording. Speakers: Don Williams, Stan Barber
Contents include: On "To the Point," Phil Konstantin talks to Dr. Alex Dessler about energy and space colonies. Speakers: Alex Dessler, Phil Konstantin
Contents include: On "To the Point," Patti Bellis talks to Dr. Scott Harris about the Panama Canal treaty. Speakers: Scott Harris, Patti Bellis
Contents include: On "To the Point," Rob Wilds talks to Dr. Martin Wiener about the changing role of Great Britian, economic issues, problems in Ireland, and the golden jubilee. Speakers: Martin Wiener, Rob Wilds
Contents include: On "To the Point," Rob Wilds talks to Dr. Gaston Rimlinger about various governments in Africa, South Africa, and Idi Amin. Speakers: Gaston Rimlinger, Rob Wilds
Contents include: Bruce Kessler talks to members of Heart about the beginnings of the band, individual songs, and working on their album "Little Queen." Interview ends abruptly. Speakers: Ann Wilson, Nancy Wilson, Bruce Kessler, Roger Fisher
Contents include: On "To the Point," Stan Barber talks to Dr. Gilbert Cuthbertson about the 65th Texas Legislature. Speakers: Stan Barber, Gilbert Cuthbertson
Contents include: On "To the Point," Stan Barber talks to Dr. O. Jack Mitchell about urban growth in Texas cities. Speakers: O. Jack Mitchell, Stan Barber
Contents include: On "To the Point," Phil Konstantin talks to Dr. Charles Doran about his book ("Myth, Oil, and Politics"), OPEC, and the future of oil. Speakers: Charles Doran, Phil Konstantin
Contents include: On "Arbuckle Flat," Bob Schmidt plays music and talks. Speakers: Bob Schmidt, Trip Doss
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: On "Up in the Air," Stan Barber talks with Dian Thomas. They discuss camping tips. Speakers: Stan Barber, Dian Thomas
Contents include: On "To the Point," Phil Konstantin talks with Richard Stabell about the usefulness of a college education. Speakers: Phil Konstantin, Richard Stabell
Contents include: On "To the Point," Rob Wilds talks with Dr. Gale Stokes about the Balkans. Speakers: Gale Stokes, Rob Wilds
Contents include: On "To the Point," Stan Barber talks with Dr. C.H. Ward about air pollution. Speakers: Stan Barber, C.H. Ward
Contents include: On "To the Point," Stan Barber talks with Frank Martin about non-commercial radio. Speakers: Frank Martin, Stan Barber
Contents include: On "To the Point," Rob Wilds talks with Susan Peiffer about women's sports at Rice University and Title IX. Speakers: Susan Peiffer, Rob Wilds
Contents include: On "To the Point," Phil Konstantin talks with Dr. Robert Dix about the ramifications of the Panama Canal Treaty. Speakers: Robert Dix, Phil Konstantin
Contents include: On "To the Point," Stan Barber talks with Charlie Holtz about Elvis and his connection with rock n' roll. Speakers: Charlie Holtz, Stan Barber
Contents include: On "Up in the Air," Stan Barber talks with Ray Hill. They discuss the gay and lesbian community in Houston, more specifically the Gay Political Caucus, fighting unconstitutional legislation, gay and lesbian job security, Mayor Fred Hofheinz, acceptance of the gay and lesbian community, dispelling gay and lesbian stereotypes, religion and homosexuality, and his life as a gay man in Houston. Recording ends abruptly. Speakers: Ray Hill, Stan Barber
Contents include: On "To the Point," Stan Barber talks with Homer Rice talks about intercollegiate football, other college sports, and the Total Person Program. Speakers: Homer Rice, Stan Barber
Contents include: On "To the Point," Irene Walker talks with Dr. John Neuport about new consciousness groups, like transcendental meditation. Speakers: John Neuport, Irene Walker
Contents include: Allen Matusow discusses the 1964 election, specifically the main players: Lyndon Baines Johnson, Nelson Rockefeller, Barry Goldwater, and George Wallace. Speaker: Allen Matusow
Contents include: On "To the Point," Rob Wilds talks with Jack Linville about land use planning and natural disasters. Speakers: Jack Linville, Rob Wilds
Contents include: Konstantyn K. Kuzminsky reads his and others poetry in Russian and another person reads it in English. He also discusses life in Siberia and Russia and other poets' lives. Abruptly ends. We deleted music at the beginning of the recording. Speaker: Konstantyn K. Kuzminsky
Contents include: On "To the Point," Phil Konstantin talks with Dr. Sarah Burnett about similarities and differences among men and women. We have deleted extraneous audio at the end of this recording. Speakers: Sarah Burnett, Phil Konstantin
Contents include: On "To the Point," Phil Konstantin talks with Dr. Baruch Brody about euthanasia and the Karen Ann Quinlan case. Speakers: Baruch Brody, Phil Konstantin
Contents include: On "To the Point," Phil Konstantin talks with Dr. Konstantin Kolenda about ethics and high school students. Speakers: Konstantin Kolenda, Phil Konstantin
Contents include: On "To the Point," Phil Konstantin talks with Dr. Donald Clayton about new space discoveries, like the age of the solar system. We deleted an off the air conversation at the beginning of the recording. Speakers: Donald Clayton, Phil Konstantin
Contents include: On "Up in the Air," Stan Barber talks with Homer Rice. They discuss the losing football season, Mike Schuler, non-revenue sports, women's sports, Susan Pfeiffer, sports predictions, scholarships, and sports facility renovations. We deleted music at the beginning of the recording. Speakers: Stan Barber, Homer Rice
Contents include: On "Up in the Air," Lee Hochberg, Eric Sisson, and Patti Bellis talk with Joan Aikens, the Commissioner of the Federal Election Commission, about campaign financing. We deleted extraneous audio at the beginning of the recording. Speakers: Joan Aikens, Lee Hochberg, Eric Sisson, Patti Bellis
Contents include: On "To the Point," Phil Konstantin talks with Dr. Diana Rathjen about children's self-esteem. We deleted an off the air conversation at the beginning of the recording. Speakers: Diana Rathjen, Phil Konstantin
Contents include: On "Up in the Air," a DJ talks with Pavel Litvinov. They discuss Litvinov's biography, Russian beliefs, dissidents, labor camps, and the technology race. Speakers: Pavel Litvinov
Contents include: On "To the Point," Phil Konstantin talks with Robert Sterling about the Jesse H. Jones School of Business Administration and business ethics. We deleted repeated outro music at the end of the recording. Speakers: Robert Sterlin, Phil Konstantin
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. William Howell about the psychology of energy conservation. Speakers: William Howell, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: The Rice Players and KTRU present two radio plays: "The Last Question" by Isaac Asimov and "Artist Descending a Staircase" by Tom Stoppard. Plays performed in Lyle's in the basement of Lovett College. Speakers: Carman Rodriguez, Mark Brennan, Peter Redding, Paul Todd, Mary Beth Lapis, Liz Israel, Karen Braitmayer, Roberta Witt, Paul Todd, Steve Ortego, Tom Moe, John Mark Bouler, Scott McDonald, Scott Froehlich, James Guenther, Margaret Elsea
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with James Blackburn about land use proposals. Speakers: James Blackburn, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Paul Cloutier about the future of science. Speakers: Paul Cloutier, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: Norman Hackerman gives his yearly "State of the University" address and answers questions. He discusses faculty retention, government-controlled higher education vs. private higher education, women's sports, Title IX, Fondren Library, Southwest Conference participation, tuition, how Rice supplements the cost of a student's education, Brown Foundation challenge, co-ed colleges, overcrowding, Shepherd School of Music, Howard Hughes will litigation, current building construction. Abruptly ends. Speaker: Norman Hackerman
Contents include: On "To the Point," Irene Walker talks with Dr. John Clark about the artificial heart. Speaker: John Clark, Irene Walker
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Joyce Brothers about the psychology of fragrance and relationships. Speakers: Dr. Joyce Brothers, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Phil Konstantin talks with Dr. Fred von der Mehden about political violence. Speakers: Fred von der Mehden, Phil Konstantin
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Andrei Amalrik about his life in Russia as a dissident. Dr. Constantine Ushinsky serves as an interpreter. Speakers: Andrei Amalrik, Lee Hochberg, Constantine Ushinsky
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Charles Doran about Anwar Sadat's visit to Israel. Speakers: Charles Doran, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: Scott Hochberg moderates college bowls matches at Rice University. The recorder was left on during breaks between rounds and at the end of the recording. We deleted this extraneous audio. Speakers: Scott Hochberg, Wes Parsons, Norby Foss, Paul Todd
Contents include: Houston city election coverage from various KTRU DJs and correspondents. We have deleted radio music throughout this recording. Speakers: Larry Fossi, Jim McConn, David Zumwalt, Lee Hochberg, Patti Bellis, Stan Barber, David Weiss
Contents include: On "To the Point," Phil Konstantin talks with Baine Kerr, President of Pennzoil, about the oil industry and consumer issues. Speakers: Baine Kerr, Phil Konstantin
Contents include: On "To the Point," Rice Chorale and Chamber Singers perform Christmas music. Performers: Rice Chorale
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Stephen Klineberg about the issue of abortion. Speakers: Stephen Klineberg, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: Bruce Kessler talks to George Clinton about recording, cancelled show in Houston, touring, Alice Cooper and KISS comparisons, Parliament and Funkadelic, Eddie Hazel, concert night performances, and his new work. Speakers: George Clinton, Bruce Kessler, Eric Sisson
Contents include: On "Arbuckle Flat," Victor Viglino plays classical music and talks with Trip Doss. This recordings has poor sound quality. Speakers: Victor Viglino, Trip Doss
Contents include: (00:01) Rumor - Jones and Will Rice College becoming co-ed; (01:02) Rice Recycling Center building new facility; (02:11) Cathy Langford on Honor Council faculty representative; (02:59) Charles, Prince of Wales visit to Houston. Speakers: Stan Barber, Cathy Langford, Charles, Prince of Wales, Fred Hofheinz
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Herb Ward about solar energy. Speakers: Herb Ward, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Alex Dessler about space colonies. Speakers: Alex Dessler, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. John Freeman about solar satellite program. Speakers: John Freeman, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Joseph Cooper about the U.S. House of Representatives and governmental ethics. Speakers: Joseph Cooper, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Robert Dix about what the U.S. should do with Panama Canal and the treaties. Speakers: Robert Dix, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: Leo Kottke's music is interwoven with interview clips. He discusses his arrest in Bonn, Germany, views on punk, Nick Lowe, his albums, producing, vocal vs. instrumental music, Chrysalis and performing. Speakers: Leo Kottke, David John Scribner
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Hugh Sanborn about Rice University students working at Casa de Amigos, a drug rehabilitation center. Speakers: Hugh Sanborn, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: Don Sanders on the "Arbuckle Flat" radio program. In the beginning, this recording is very poor. Speakers: Don Sanders, Trip Voss
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Donald Huddle about undocumented immigrants and the Simopson-Rodino bill. Speakers: Donald Huddle, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Edgar Edwards about issues in Ethiopia. Speakers: Edgar Edwards, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "Backstage Interview," Bruce Kessler talks to Edgar Winter about the Trash Band, other project he would like to explore, Houston music venues, philosophy of making music, producing, musical beginnings, and marketable music. Speakers: Stan Barber, Bruce Kessler, Edgar Winter
Contents include: Stan Barber speaks with SA President candidates Marian Barber and Roy Beller. He also speaks to the Rice Thresher editor candidates: David Butler and Steve Sullivan. We have deleted radio music throughout this recording. Speakers: Stan Barber, Marian Barber, Roy Beller, David Butler, Steve Sullivan
Contents include: Stan Barber presents an interview of Gordon Lightfoot, which is interwoven with music. Lightfoot discusses how he got started in the business, Pee Wee Charles, his current touring band, his album Endless Wire, and songwriting. Speakers: Stan Barber, Gordon Lightfoot
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Frank Bearden about health and heart attacks. Speakers: Frank Bearden, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Walter Isle about science fiction in the 1970s. Speakers: Walter Isle, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: Vince Bell on the "Arbuckle Flat" radio program. Speakers: Trip Voss, Vince Bell
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Art Few about biomass conversion. Speakers: Art Few, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Priscilla Huston about the future of computing. Speakers: Priscilla Huston, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. William Martin about crime and criminals. Speakers: William Martin, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Allen Matusow about the 1960s. Speakers: Allen Matusow, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: Bruce Kessler interviews members of Horslips, Eamon Carr and Jim Lockhart, about the band's origins, creating their unique sound, songwriting, recording, "The Book of Invasions," instrumentation, album artwork, name of the band, acoustic album, playing with other bands, and working with different labels. They also do a station ID. Speakers: Eamon Carr, Jim Lockhart, Bruce Kessler
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Neils Neilsen about Pres. Jimmy Carter and human rights. Speakers: Neils Neilsen, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Peter Rowe about city land use planning. Speakers: Peter Rowe, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Vladimir Lyatokho about the relationship between Russia and China. Speakers: Vladimir Lyatokho, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: Bruce Kessler interviews Carlos Alomar rhythm guitarist in David Bowie's touring band and on his albums. Alomar discusses Bowie's current tour, recording Bowie's music, playing Bowie's catalog on tour, his production company, songwriting, his session work, and his work with Iggy Pop. Speakers: Carlos Alomar, Bruce Kessler
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Charles Philpott about genetic engineering and cloning. Speakers: Charles Philpott, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Carl Sharpe about mass transit. Speakers: Carl Sharpe, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Bobby May and Marty Froelich about the psychology of long distance running. Speakers: Bobby May, Marty Froelich, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks with James Arnold about "reunion" as an alternative to deprogramming from religious cults. Speakers: James Arnold, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks with Dr. Konstantin Kolenda about coping with death and dying. Speakers: Konstantin Kolenda, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: Ricky Dyke interviews John McLaughlin. He discusses his audience, revisiting the electric guitar, Shakti and their albums, touring, writing music, jamming with Jimi Hendrix, and opinions on other jazz groups. Speakers: John McLaughlin, Ricky Dyke
Contents include: Bruce Kessler interviews Nick Lowe. They discuss the disposability of pop music, music production, songwriting, creating the album Pure Pop for Now People, pub rock and humor, power pop, death of punk, and new wave. Speakers: Nick Lowe, Bruce Kessler
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks with Dr. Paul Cloutier about the sunken USS Hatteras. Speakers: Paul Cloutier, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks with Dr. Scott Harris about disarmament and the arms race. Speakers: Scott Harris, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks with Dr. Reese Duke about education in Texas. Speakers: Reese Duke, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks with Dr. Baruch Brody about the consumer movement. Speakers: Baruch Brody, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks with Dr. Donald Huddle about inflation and the future of the U.S. economy. Speakers: Don Huddle, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks with Dr. Chad Gordon about dealing with aged. Speakers: Chad Gordon, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks with Dr. William Howell about the psychology of energy conservation. Speakers: William Howell, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: Spring 1978, Bruce Kessler talks to Nigel Olsson about his early music career, playing with the Elton John Band, producing, his solo career, and touring. Speakers: Nigel Olsson, Bruce Kessler, Walter Keeler
Contents include: A DJ talks to Gary Burton about his influences, former students, audiences around the world, technique, perceptions as a musician, branching out with atypical jazz musicians, stage outfits as costume, and upcoming plans. Speakers: Gary Burton
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: Bruce Kessler talks to members of Journey about adding Steve Perry, selecting material, touring, new music, playing with Santana before creating Journey, and national reception and airplay. They do a station ID. We changed the speed of this recording. Speakers: Steve Perry, Neal Schon, Gregg Rolie, Ross Valory, Aynsley Dunbar
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Charlotte Peltier about beach management. Speakers: Charlotte Peltier, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Joan Boorman about bilingual education. Speakers: Joan Boorman, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Curt Michel about the problems with the Skylab satellite. Speakers: Curt Michel, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Phil Bedient about water run-off and pollution. We deleted extraneous audio at the ending. Speakers: Phil Bedient, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Austin Bay talks to Dr. Harold Hyman about the Equal Rights Amendment. We deleted extraneous audio at the ending. Speakers: Harold Hyman, Austin Bay
Contents include: On "To the Point," Austin Bay talks to Coach Ray Alborn about Rice Owls football. Speakers: Ray Alborn, Austin Bay
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Kathleen Matthews about the ethics of genetic research and test tube babies. Speakers: Kathleen Matthews, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks with Dr. Gordon Smith about the state of the dollar. Speakers: Gordon Smith, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Paul Harcombe about endangered species. Speakers: Paul Harcombe, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Austin Bay talks to Bonnie Hellums about sex education. Speakers: Bonnie Hellums, Austin Bay
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Chandler Davidson about the workforce. Speakers: Chandler Davidson, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Scott Harris about the Middle East peace process. Speakers: Scott Harris, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Father Don Benjamin about the search for a new pope and the Catholic Church. Speakers: Father Don Benjamin, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Jean Claude De Braemaker about earthquakes. Speakers: Jean Claude De Braemaker, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Richard Smith about China. Speakers: Richard Smith, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Richard Butler about the recent passage of the energy bill. Speakers: Richard Butler, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: The men of Lovett College, as well as Associates, perform for the college.
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Richard Haugh about Russia's crackdown on dissidents. Speakers: Richard Haugh, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. John Newport about religion and its role in futurology. Speakers: John Newport, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: Monica McNeil and Jean Kilbourn perform on the "Arbuckle Flat" radio program. Speakers: Mary Kay Zuravleff, Monica McNeil, Jean Kilbourn
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Gilbert Cuthbertson about Gov. Bill Clemmons and Texas political myths. Speakers: Gilbert Cuthbertson, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: Justice Arthur Goldberg speaks at Rice University about the U.S. Constitution and its amendments, freedom of religion, no national church, freedom of religion in Communist countries, being entitled to dignity, jobs, and the Helsinki accord. Speakers: Arthur Goldberg, Niels Nielsen
Contents include: David Butler reports on all events on campus, as well as weather, for the dates 11-19, 11-20, 12-01, 12-02, 12-04, and 12-05. He also does multiple takes. In the middle of the recording. Because of recording issues, we have altered this recording. Speaker: David Butler
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. John Newport about the Peoples Temple, Jonestown massacre, Jim Jones, and cults. Speakers: John Newport, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Eva Lee about women in sports. Speakers: Eva Lee, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Konstantin Kolenda about humanism and religion. Speakers: Konstantin Kolenda, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Edward Williams about small business owners. Speakers: Edward Williams, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Diana Rathjen about the importance of touch and communication in relationships. Speakers: Diana Rathjen, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Scott Harris about the U.S. civil defense system and nuclear war. Speakers: Scott Harris, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks with Dr. Robert Patten about Charles Dickens' views on Christmas. Speakers: Robert Patten, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: Stephen Jarrard and Franci Files perform on the "Arbuckle Flat" program. Speakers: Stephen Jarrard, Franci Files
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. William Martin about TV and radio evangelists. Speakers: William Martin, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Rob Daniels about Pioneer-Venus probe. Speakers: Rob Daniels, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: This interview was created by Thirsty Ear Productions in conjunction with RCA's Nipper Series. Bowie's live and in studio music plays in between interview clips. Bowie discusses his work with Brian Eno, his theatrical personas, what he did in 1977-1978, use of electronics in his music, and his films. Speaker: David Bowie
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Richard Smith about the changes in China and diplomacy. Speakers: Richard Smith, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Norman Hackerman about issues at the private university. Speakers: Norman Hackerman, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: Jim Fowler interviews Bill Baldwin '71 about his work with Robert Altman in Bruster McCloud, Larry McMurtry, Peter Bogdanovich, The Last Picture Show, and his screenplay Suede Holloway. We deleted radio music at the beginning and end of the recordings. Speaker: Bill Baldwin, Jim Fowler
Contents include: This interview was created by Thirsty Ear Productions in conjunction with RCA's Nipper Series. Hall & Oates' live and in studio music plays in between interview clips. Darryl Hall and John Oates discuss their new album, groupies, defining their sound, studio musicians, making great music, and side projects. Speakers: Darryl Hall, John Oates
Contents include: John Grimaudo performs on the "Arbuckle Flat" program. Speakers: John Grimaudo
Contents include: Paul Miles and Bruce Atkinson perform on the "Arbuckle Flat" radio program. Speakers: Paul Miles, Bruce Atkinson
Contents include: On "Up in the Air" Mary Kay Zuravleff interviews Jim Anderson and Herb Meekins [sp?]. Anderson and Meekins discuss their role as the Guardian Angels cheerleading squad for the Houston Angels team from the Women's Professional Basketball League. We deleted an off the air conversation at the beginning of the recording. Speakers: Mary Kay Zuravleff, Jim Anderson
Contents include: Report on students running for campus wide positions. Speakers: Jeff Hochberg, Matt Muller, Richard Dees, Gene Creely
Contents include: Carole Griffin performs on the "Arbuckle Flat" radio program. Speakers: Carole Griffin
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Charles Doran about political unrest in Iran. Speakers: Charles Doran, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: (00:01) John Freeman on uses of $500,000 campus store excess; (01:34) Richard Smith on China; (03:58) Baseball stadium renovation; (04:36) Mardi Gras in New Orleans cancelled; (05:45) Geoffrey Barallough on Europe; (06:27) Charles Doran on Iranian crisis; (09:42) John Barth speaks at Rice; (11:30) Liz Heitman on blanket tax increase for TexPIRG. Speakers: John Freeman, Richard smith, Stan Barber, Katie Caraway, Geoffrey Barallough, Charles Doran, John Barth, Liz Heitman, Lee Hochberg, Bruce Davies, Linda McNutt, Cindy McCabe
Contents include: On "Up in the Air," Steve Hahn speaks with Jerald Gottlieb and Jackie McMillan [sp?] from the Family Service Center about the creative expression of anger workshop. Speakers: Steve Hahn, Jerald Gottlieb
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Fred von der Mehden about political risk analysis. Speakers: Fred von der Mehden, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Salomon Bochner about the life of Albert Einstein. Speakers: Salomon Bochner, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: Two KTRU DJs talk to a student about the upcoming vote on college dues increase proposal. The audio is unedited.
Contents include: On "Up in the Air," Tim Case interviews Joe Girard about sales and his techniques. Speakers: Joe Girard, Tim Case
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Herb Ward about public safety and toxic substances. Speakers: Herb Ward, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Edgar Edwards about conflicts in Africa and how democratic and communist countries are intervening. Speakers: Edgar Edwards, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Alexander Dessler about Voyager I and the merits of the space program. Speakers: Alexander Dessler, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: Sid Richardson College folio act during the Basement Beer Hall Melodrama intermission. Speakers: Craig Lackey, Alan Miller, Jerry Garcia, Paul Reinhardt, Dave Gutierrez, Walter Underwood
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Frank Bearden and Harriette Bearden about stress. Speakers: Frank Bearden, Harriette Bearden, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "Chicken Skin Music," Richard Dobson performs and talk about recording his new album "The Big Taste," and living in Nashville. Speakers: Richard Dobson, David John Scribner
Contents include: On "Backstage Interview," Walter Keeler interviews Stan Getz about using electronics on his new album, his musical experiences, his changing lineup, writing music, improvisation, and producing. Speakers: Stan Getz, Walter Keeler
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Paul Cloutier about nuclear energy options after Three Mile Island. Speakers: Paul Cloutier, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Robert Wilson, newly awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics, about the Big Bang Theory. Speakers: Robert Wilson, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with Dr. Stephen Klineberg about how rising fuel prices affect the public. Speakers: Stephen Klineberg, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Ira Gruber about conflicts between French and English Canadians. Speakers: Ira Gruber, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: (00:01) "Roxanne" by the Police with a crow; (02:29) Lead-out grooves; (04:49) Neil Sedaka vs. Steve Reich; (07:10) "Blear's Paint"; (08:32) "My Wife"; (10:38) Interview with Shawn Chastity; (22:25) Jim Fowler does Rod McKuen; (27:06) Uncle Nasty's Helpful Hint for the Day; (28:50) Styx on both turntables; (33:36) AM radio and the songs they play; (36:10) Mental Health Matters; (38:57) Earth-Mom News; (41:34) Dial-A-Diatribe with Brother Walter; (44:33) Brother John; (49:30) "My Darling Lisa"; (52:54) Rod McKuen; (55:12) Crow and sign-ff; (58:16) Am Radio and the songs they play. We deleted a large section of dead-air from the middle of this recording. Speakers: John "Grungy" Gladu, John Taylor, Jim Fowler
Contents include: On "To the Point," Lee Hochberg talks with Dr. Charles Doran about the Strategic Arms Limitations Talks/Treaty (SALT). Speakers: Charles Doran, Lee Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with Dr. Phil Bedient about flood control and water quality in Texas. Speakers: Phil Bedient, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: On "To the Point," Collyn Peddie talks with Dr. Gordon Smith about trade with Japan. Speakers: Gordon Smith, Collyn Peddie
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with Dr. Martin Wiener about Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's conservative party take over in British politics. Speakers: Martin Wiener, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: On "To the Point," Collyn Peddie talks with Dr. Robert Sterling about business education in the U.S. and at the Jones School of Business Administration. Speakers: Robert Sterling, Collyn Peddie
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with Dr. Sarah Burnett about sex differences in spatial visualization and mathematical ability. Speakers: Sarah Burnett, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with Dr. Elizabeth Long about intimacy in American society. Speakers: Elizabeth Long, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with Dr. Brian Huberman about documentary films. Speakers: Brian Huberman, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: On "Up in the Air," Mary Kay Zuravleff and Steve Hahn talk with John Kaufman and Dr. Thomas W. Leland, Jr. about nuclear energy. Recording abruptly ends. Speakers: Richard Holland, Thomas W. Leland, Jr., John Kaufman, Steve Hahn
Contents include: Walter Keeler interviews John Wetton of U.K. about the new tour, King Crimson, the break-up, U.K., Allan Holdsworth, Family, Uriah Heep, "Danger Money" album, songwriting, other collaborations, and Eddie Jobson. Speakers: John Wetton, Walter Keeler
Contents include: On "Up in the Air," Mary Kay Zuravleff and Walter Keeler interview Cynthia Potter about her directing career, long plays, finding the right play to direct, directing at Main Street Theatre, future plans, working with actors, and inspiration. Speakers: Cynthia Potter, Walter Keeler, Mary Kay Zuravleff
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with Dr. Diana Rathjen about children's self-esteem. Speakers: Diana Rathjen, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with Dr. Fred von der Mehden about Southeast Asia refugees. Speakers: Fred von der Mehden, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with Geoffrey Winningham about photography and its mechanics. Speakers: Geoffrey Winningham, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with Jim Blackburn about legal impediments to flood control. Speakers: Jim Blackburn, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with Dr. Linda Driskill about continuing education programs. Speakers: Linda Driskill, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: Virginia Stroud talks about Native American history, Buffalo Soldiers, her art technique, being a woman artist in her Native community, working with dealers, and Native American culture and politics. This is a poor recording. We deleted extraneous audio at the end of this recording. Speakers: Virginia Stroud
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with Dr. Herb Ward about environmental consequences of the Ixtoc I oil spill. Speakers: Herb Ward, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with Dr. John Adams about the term "energy crisis" and its reality. Speakers: John Adams, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: Donald Buchholz and Rich Koehler interview Ezra Idlet, Keith Grimwood, and Mike of St. Elmo's Fire. The band talks about their history and line-up changes. Speakers: Ezra Idlet, Keith Grimwood, Donald Buchholz, Rich Koehler
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with Dr. Joseph Cooper about issues in the social sciences. Speakers: Joseph Cooper, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with Dr. Gilbert Cuthbertson about the 1965 voting rights act. Speakers: Gilbert Cuthbertson, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with Harry Ransom about energy saving through architecture. Speakers: Harry Ransom, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: Jerry Rubin addresses Rice and takes questions from the audience. Rubin discusses protesting in the 1960s, reviews major events of the decade, Vietnam War, Watergate, Kent State University, life in the 1970s, his predictions for the 1980s. Speakers: Allen Matusow, Jerry Rubin
Contents include: On "Up in the Air," an interviewer speaks with David Ross who owns Prairie Fire bookstore, which sells Chinese books and crafts. He discusses Chinese culture and their interactions with U.S. culture. We deleted radio music at end of the recording. Speaker: David Ross
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with Capt. Wade Melton about the U.S. Navy and funding. Speakers: Wade Melton, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with Dr. H.C. Clark about geological hazards in Texas. Speakers: H.C. Clark, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris speaks to Dr. Robert Dix about the U.S. and Mexico relations and energy issues. Speakers: Robert Dix, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: On "To the Point," Matt Muller speaks to Dr. Douglas North about recent U.S. stock market volatility. Speakers: Douglas North, Matt Muller
Contents include: On "Up in the Air," Laura Rohwer speaks with Travis Morales supporter of and Netta Reynolds a member of the Revolutionary Communist Party. They discuss the party's values, revolutionary thought and actions during the 1960s, legal issues, relationship to the Rice community, and Jerry Rubin. Speakers: Laura Rohwer, Travis Morales, Netta Reynolds
Contents include: (00:01) Technical difficulties sign-off; (00:44) Cheer station ID; (01:03) Africa station ID; (01:29) George Clinton station ID; (01:40) Roy Ayers station ID; (01:54) George Clinton station ID; (02:08) Grungy's Computer voice sign-on and sign-off; (03:40) Mechanical voice box sign off; (06:48) Rice Campus Store ad; (07:11) "Rushed" rush for requests; (07:38) Tiger Okosh station ID; (07:46) Gary Burton station ID; (08:04) Iggy Pop station ID; (08:12:) Graham Parker station ID; (08:18) Boz Scaggs station ID; (08:23) Fee Waybill station ID; (08:35) Stevie Nicks station IDs; (08:52) Mick Fleetwood station ID; (09:04) Janis Ian station ID; (09:12) Frank Zappa station ID; (09:23) Rick Wakeman station ID; (09:31) Jon Anderson station ID; (09:35) Rick Nielsen station ID; (09:47) Gary Wright station ID; (09:55) Eric Bloom station ID; (10:09) John Wetton station ID; (10:22) Reverb ID sign-on and visit the big board; (11:44) Keith Robinson Show intro; (12:07) St. Elmo's Fire KTRU jingle; (13:51) Radio scan intro; (17:16) St. Elmo's Fire "Damian's Dilemma"; (22:17) St. Elmo's Fire "The Lady Has No Heart"; (27:14) St. Elmo's Fire "Rainbows Shatter"; (30:55) Rawslyn Ruffin "Ode to Shakespeare"; (33:35) Richard Dobson "500 Miles from the Mexican Border"; (36:26) Jean Kilbourn and Monica McNeil "Last Born Rainbow"; (41:55) Tim Curry "Sloe Gin"; (47:28) Firesign Theatre "Give Up This Day." Speakers: George Clinton, Roy Ayers, John Gladu, Tiger Okosh, Gary Burton, Iggy Pop, Graham Parker, Boz Scaggs, Fee Waybill, Stevie Nicks, Mick Fleetwood, Janis Ian, Frank Zappa, Rick Wakeman, Jon Anderson, Rick Nielsen, Gary Wright, Eric Bloom, John Wetton, Craig Calvert, Connie Mims, Ezra Idlet, Keith Grimwood, Damian Hevia, Rawslyn Ruffin, Richard Dobson, Jean Kilbourn, Monica McNeil, Tim Curry
Contents include: (00:01) Blears Weather-Beaten Paint commercial; (01:33) Iggy and the Stooges "I'm Sick of You"; (08:26) David Bowie "Heroes" in German; (12:02) Fleetwood Mac "Silver Springs"; (16:24) Bubble Puppy "Hot Some and Sasafrass"; (19:03) Bubble Puppy "Lonely"; (22:04) The Moving Sidewalks "99th Floor"; (24:25) The Moving Sidewalks "What Are You Going To Do"; (26:54) The Towering promo; (27:53) National Lampoon promos; (32:31) Jazz show promo; (33:31) 10th year anniversary promos; (34:30) Bumper sticker promos; (38:36) PSA on child abuse; (39:39) General Vietnamics promo; (40:55) Bruce Springsteen "The Fever." Speakers: John Gladu, Iggy Pop and the Stooges, David Bowie, Fleetwood Mac, Bubble Puppy, The Moving Sidewalks, Bruce Springsteen
Contents include: On "Up in the Air," John Griffin and Pete Elloway speak with Jeff Daiell who is running for Houston City Council. Daiell discusses crime fighting, Clear Lake, and outsourcing city business. Speakers: Jeff Daiell, Pete Elloway, John Griffin
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris speaks to Faye Boudreaux about women in engineering. Speakers: Faye Boudreaux, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: On "To the Point," Matt Muller speaks to Dr. Francis Lowenheim about his research on Pres. Eisenhower's White House audio tape transcripts. Speakers: Francis Lowenheim, Matt Muller
Contents include: On "To the Point," Matt Muller speaks to Dr. Francis Lowenheim about his research on Pres. Eisenhower's White House audio tape transcripts. Speakers: Francis Lowenheim, Matt Muller
Contents include: During the Wiess School of Natural Sciences dedication, Dr. William E. Gordon, Robert R. Herring, and Pres. Norman Hackerman give remarks. Dr. Frank Press speaks on "Science and Our Future." Speakers: William E. Gordon, Robert R. Herring, Norman Hackerman, Frank Press
Contents include: On "To the Point," Matt Muller talks with Dr. Pat Reiff about space solar power satellites. Speakers: Pat Reiff, Matt Muller
Contents include: On "To the Point," Matt Muller speaks to Dr. Fred von der Mehden about the U.S.'s role in foreign affairs. Speakers: Fred von der Mehden, Matt Muller
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with Dr. Herb Ward about the National Center for Groundwater Research. Speakers: Herb Ward, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with Dr. Frank Fisher about environmental reclamation and estuaries. Speakers: Frank Fisher, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with Dr. Allen Matusow about the 1970s. Speakers: Allen Matusow, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: A KTRU DJ speaks with Catfish Hodge about his career. Hodge also plays music and records a station ID. Speaker: Catfish Hodge
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with Dr. Joan Boorman about Mexican masculinity. Speakers: Joan Boorman, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: On "To the Point," Matt Muller talks with Dr. Richard Smith about the relationship between the U.S., Russia, and China vis-à-vis Afghanistan. Speakers: Richard Smith, Matt Muller
Contents include: Dan Downey, running for the Texas State Legislature District 80, discusses his plans for education reform and crime reform. We deleted extraneous audio from the beginning of this recording. Speakers: Mark Linimon, Dan Downey
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with Dr. William Howell about his recent Houston crime study. Speakers: William Howell, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: On "To the Point," Matt Muller talks with Dr. Kathleen Matthews about test tube babies. Speakers: Kathleen Matthews, Matt Muller
Contents include: On "To the Point," Matt Muller talks with Dr. John Margrave about scientific research spending. Speakers: John Margrave, Matt Muller
Contents include: On "To the Point," Matt Muller talks with Dr. John Freeman about energy costs and future budgetary planning. Speakers: John Freeman, Matt Muller
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with Dr. Frank Bearden about physical fitness in the U.S. Speakers: Frank Bearden, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with Dr. John Anderson about marine geology in Antarctica. Speakers: John Anderson, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: The Rice Associates present Norman Hackerman giving his "State of the University" address. He discusses faculty salaries, administration, the athletic program, and energy. Secretary of the Department of Energy Charles Duncan speaks about energy use. Speakers: Norman Hackerman, Charles Duncan
Contents include: On "Up in the Air," Philip Roos talks about his book about how parents and professionals can care for handicapped children. We deleted extraneous audio from the beginning of this recording. Speakers: Philip Roos
Contents include: On "Up in the Air," Walter Keeler and Mark Linimon interview Sanford Criner, owner of the Rockefeller's music venue. He discusses renovating the Heights State Bank building, choosing and booking talent, promotion, and dealing with musicians and managers. Speakers: Sanford Criner, Walter Keeler, Mark Linimon
Contents include: Speakers and singers protest President Jimmy Carter and Congress's renewal of draft registration. Because the tape was recorded at a very fast speed, we have corrected it. We also removed white noise. Speakers: Richard King, Jim Steele, Jeff Calvert
Contents include: On "Up in the Air," Rev. Charles A. Moore talks about his mission to Iran to visit with hostages and plead for their release, during the Iran hostage crisis. We deleted extraneous audio from the beginning of this recording. Speakers: Charles A. Moore, Jim Fowler, Frank Vance, David Butler
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with Dr. Ken Kennedy about relating to computers, their history, and future. Speakers: Ken Kennedy, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with Dr. Niels Nielsen about religious studies in public schools. Speakers: Niels Nielsen, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with James Blackburn about energy planning. Speakers: James Blackburn, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: Dr. Norman Geisler and Dr. Konstantin Kolenda debate, representing Christianity and Humanism respectively. They also answer questions on the topic. Speakers: Greg Hinkle, Norman Geisler, Konstantin Kolenda
Contents include: (00:01) Lone Star Train Route rally; (04:21) Baker College Shakespeare Festival; (08:53) Norman Hackerman announces Lovett and Jones College become co-ed; (09:58) Baker Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet review; (12:23) Rice Players' Seascape; (14:09) New administrative appointments; (15:45) Arne Troelstra interview; (22:40) Beer Bike update; (23:47) John B. Anderson running for independent presidential candidate; (24:40) Sid Richardson College bomb; (26:20) League of Women Voters Republican debate; (30:31) Gen. David Jones on Iran hostage rescue; (30:37) John Ford of Gov. Bill Clements on Iran hostage rescue; (31:10) John Tower on Iran hostage rescue; (31:46) Sen. Ted Kennedy on Iran hostage rescue; (32:35) Lovett College chili cock-off; (33:49) Pres. Jimmy Carter on Sec. Cyrus Vance resignation; (34:40) Earl Cooper in NFL draft; (35:44) NFL draft. Speakers: David Butler, Francis Loewenheim, Al Edwards, Jim Hoffmeister, Jack Martin, Jeffrey Kurtzman, Norman Hackerman, Paul C. Graves, Mary Kay Zuravleff, Arne Troelstra, George H. W. Bush, Ronald Reagan, Bill Brey, David Jones, John Ford, John Tower, Jimmy Carter, Ted Kennedy, David Tuttle
Contents include: On "To the Point," Kathryn Makris talks with Dr. Joseph Cooper about the relationship between the U.S. president and congress. Speakers: Joseph Cooper, Kathryn Makris
Contents include: Randal Calcote performs on the show "Arbuckle Flat." We have removed white noise from this recording. Speakers: Walter Keeler, Randal Calcote
Contents include: On "To the Point," Steve Sailer talks with Dr. Robert Stein about federal funding for state and local governments. Speakers: Robert Stein, Steve Sailer
Contents include: On "To the Point," Mark Winstein talks with Dr. Frank Bearden about the U.S.'s boycott of the 1980 Olympics. Speakers: Frank Bearden, Mark Winstein
Contents include: (00:01) Jones and Lovett Colleges becoming co-ed in Fall 1980; (01:29) Sen. Edward Kennedy critiquing Pres. Jimmy Carter; (02:38) Sen. Edward Kennedy on unemployment; (03:36) George Bush for President Headquarters on Texas primary night; (05:39) Gov. Bill Clements on Texas Republican Headquarters; (06:45) Gov. Ronald Reagan on winning delegates; (07:33) Democratic chairman John White on winning in general election; (08:02) Ken Dye appointed Director of the Marching Owl Band; (10:27) 1980 matriculation; (11:58) Dr. Richard Schuberth's faculty address; (14:02) David Butler's calendar; (18:30) David Butler's Nightowl calendar. Speakers: Bill Bray, Norman Hackerman, Edward Kennedy, Greg Smith, Lance Crabbe, Barbara Bush, Bill Clements, Ronald Reagan, John White, David Butler, David Tuttle, Richard Schuberth
Contents include: On "To the Point," Steve Sailer talks with Dr. Niels Nielsen about the rise of religious fundamentalism in Iran. Speakers: Niels Nielsen, Steve Sailer
Contents include: On "To the Point," Thad Pugh talks with Dr. Walter Isle and Flournoy Manzo about "Round Two," a new college program for non-traditional students. Speakers: Walter Isle, Flournoy Manzo, Thad Pugh
Contents include: On "To the Point," Thad Pugh talks with Dr. Paul Cloutier about mining and exploiting the space's resources. Speakers: Paul Cloutier, Thad Pugh
Contents include: On "To the Point," Mark Winstein talks with Dr. Pat Reiff about the Citizen's Environmental Coalition. Speakers: Pat Reiff, Mark Winstein
Contents include: Eric Sisson and David Tuttle call the Men's Beer Bike race. Speakers: David Tuttle, Eric Sisson
Contents include: On "To the Point," Tom Birch talks to Dr. Carrin Dunne about modern morality and concerns. Speakers: Carrin Dunne, Tom Birch
Contents include: On "To the Point," Thad Pugh talks with Dr. Tom Hill about Jupiter. Speakers: Tom Hill, Thad Pugh
Contents include: On "Up in the Air," Suzanne Tolbert speaks with Signe Waller, widow of James Waller, M.D. who was killed by members of the Ku Klux Klan during an anti-Klan rally in Greensboro, NC on November 3, 1979. Waller is joined by a member of the Communist Worker's Party. Waller describes the event and gives background on the police's response, as well the fallout from the event. Speakers: Signe Waller, Suzanne Tolbert
Contents include: On "To the Point," Mark Winstein talks with Dr. Ken Kennedy about the future of the computer. Speakers: Ken Kennedy, Mark Winstein
Contents include: On "To the Point," Thad Pugh talks to Dr. Chad Gordon about solar power satellites. Speakers: Chad Gordon, Thad Pugh
Contents include: On "To the Point," Mark Winstein talks with Dr. Gilbert Cuthbertson about women in Texs history. Speakers: Gilbert Cuthbertson, Mark Winstein
Contents include: On "To the Point," Mark Winstein talks with Dr. Gordon Wittenberg about energy use and architecture. Speakers: Gordon Wittenberg, Mark Winstein
Contents include: On "To the Point," Thad Pugh talks to Dr. Bill Colson about free-electron lasers. Speakers: Bill Colson, Thad Pugh
Contents include: On "To the Point," Steve Sailer talks with Dr. Meredith Skura about mental illness and literature. Speakers: Meredith Skura, Steve Sailer
Contents include: On "To the Point," Thad Pugh talks with Dr. Gordon Smith about the current economic recession. Speakers: Gordon Smith, Thad Pugh
Contents include: Richard Dobson performs and talks about his life. We deleted radio music at end of recording. Speakers: David John Scribner, Richard Dobson
Contents include: Richard Dobson performs and talks about his life. We deleted radio music at the end of the recording. Speakers: David John Scribner, Richard Dobson
Contents include: On "Rice Composers," Kery Jones, Scott Gehman, Rawslyn Ruffin, and Lisa Willis talk about pieces that they have composed as a brass quintet and individually. Speakers: Kerry Jones, Scott Gehman, Rawslyn Ruffin, Lisa Willis
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Mark Brice about the documentary "Vietnam in Texas" about Seadrift, TX. Speakers: Mark Brice, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Phil Bedient about drought conditions. Speakers: Phil Bedient, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Robert Dix about the reasons for Cuban immigration. Speakers: Robert Dix, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Tom McCaleb about problems in the auto industry. Speakers: Tom McCaleb, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Frank Tittle about laser technology in China. Speakers: Frank Tittle, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to George Greanias about corporate responsibility and ethics. Speakers: George Greanias, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: (00:01) Provost William Gordon on reduction of NOTS accounts; (00:43) Lynn Lednicky on student directory; (01:09) New photo ID Cards; (02:37) Ken Dye on MOB uniforms; (02:47) Marion Hicks on Pub and Cohen House inspections; (03:02) Hally Poindexter on Dean of Humanities search; (03:14) Rice Owls football vs. Clemson preview; (04:05) Death of Dr. John Parish; (05:29) Rice Owls football vs. Tulane at Superdome; (08:34) Campanile distribution; (08:56) Dr. Stewart Baker's eulogy for Dr. John Parish; (09:22) SA senate meeting review; (10:23) Peter Rudenberg on liquor at Willy's Pub; (10:34) Rice Owls football vs. LSU and other Rice sports preview; (11:50) Daily sports report; (14:12) Rice Owls football vs. LSU review; (16:43) MOB's performance at the Rice Owls vs. LSU game; (17:59) Lovett Associate Justice resignation; (19:03) SA meeting review; (20:16) Ray Alborn on LSU win; (22:00) Mary Crisp campaigning for John B. Anderson for President; (22:31) Pres. Doris Smith announces Pres. Carter endorsement; (23:05) Farrell Gerbode on ICSA conversion of Itel AS-6 to a Model 2; (23:42) Bicycle thefts; (24:52) George H. W. Bush campaigning; (25:16) Weekend sports preview; (26:37) Rice Owls football vs. TCU review; (29:05) David Butler's calendar; (29:52) Rice Owls football vs. UT preview; (31:39) Anderson Hall renovation; (33:55) ICSA conversion to MVS; (36:38) Sid Richardson College melodrama "The Corn is Deep in Maize County" review; (39:20) Rice Owls football vs. TCU review. Speakers: William Gordon, Lynn Lednicky, Debbie Gronke, Mary Voswinkel, Ken Dye, Marion Hicks, Hally Poindexter, David Tuttle, Robin Baringer, Stewart Baker, Joe Freeland, Peter Rudenberg, Reggie Stoker, Jonathon Sadow, Nancy Burch, Reginald Stoker, David Holmes, Andy Pantos, Ray Alborn, Farrrell Gerbode, Mary Voswinkel, George H. W. Bush, Lance Crabb, O. Jack Mitchell, Jerry Stovall, Charles Rudolph, Peter Papademetriou, Priscilla Huston
Contents include: The Hemmer Ridge Mountain Boys perform live in Willy's Pub. We deleted dead air after the set. Speakers: Wrecks Bell, Mickey White, Michael Edwards
Contents include: On "To the Point," Thad Pugh talks to Dr. Stephen Klineberg about the effects of limited resources. Speakers: Stephen Klineberg, Thad Pugh
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Don Huddle about productivity and the American worker. Speakers: Don Huddle, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Thad Pugh talks to Dr. Robert Thrall about the impact of mathematical sciences. Speakers: Robert Thrall, Thad Pugh
Contents include: On "To the Point," Thad Pugh talks to Dr. Eva Thompson about Russia today. Speakers: Ewa Thompson, Thad Pugh
Contents include: On "To the Point," Thad Pugh talks to Dr. Franz Brotzen about a shortage of materials, like chromium, cobalt, or manganese. Speakers: Franz Brotzen, Thad Pugh
Contents include: On "To the Point," Thad Pugh talks to Dr. William Gordon about Japanese technology. Speakers: William Gordon, Thad Pugh
Contents include: On "To the Point," Thad Pugh talks to Dr. Gale Stokes about turmoil in Poland. Speakers: Gale Stokes, Thad Pugh
Contents include: (00:01) Student Association meeting review; (01:03) MOB trip to Texas A and M; (01:19) Officiating in soccer games; (03:48) Objects thrown from Sid Richardson College balconies; (04:36) Sports report; (06:46) Fight at Will Rice College party; (07:49) Dr. Stewart Baker leaves Rice; (08:26) Sports report; (10:00) District #80 State Representative debate featuring Paul Colbert, Dan Downey, and Charles Fuller at Baker College; (14:19) Ron Paul and Ed Clarke speaking at Lovett College; (18:59) KTRU-Thresher political phone survey; (23:38) Weekend sports preview; (24:45) Rice Owls football vs. Arkansas review; (25:27) Weekend sports report; (27:06) Sports report; (30:01) Democratic rally at Miller Theatre; (33:03) Pres. Jimmy Carter campaign promises in 1976 analyzed; (34:42) Gene Jones headquarters; (35:48) Mike Richards headquarters; (36:49) Gene Jones on election results, Richards campaign; (38:07) Election results for Mike Richards; (39:14) Ron Paul headquarters; (39:59) Paul Colbert election results; (40:38) Paul Colbert interview; (41:19) Pres. Jimmy Carter concedes presidency; (42:08) Scott Hochberg on John Anderson headquarters; (43:21) Mike Richards voting results; (44:22) Paul Colbert plans after election; (45:12) Final Harris County returns; (46:25) Rally Club bonfire. Speakers: Joe Freeland, Ken Dye, Bruce Deskin, Jonathon Sadow, Mary Voswinkel, Bob Corrigan, Sharon Hughes, Ron Paul, Ed Clarke, David Bunch, Reginald Stocker, Paul Williams, Dave Collins, Lance Crabbe, Stewart Baker, Gary Meade, Paul Colbert, Scott Hochberg, Mike Richards, Paul Colbert, Alexis Quinlan
Contents include: On "To the Point," Thad Pugh talks to Dr. J. Venn Leeds about the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Speakers: J. Venn Leeds, Thad Pugh
Contents include: On "To the Point," Thad Pugh talks to Dr. Fred von der Mehden about the conflicts in the Middle East. Speakers: Fred von der Mehden, Thad Pugh
Contents include: Norman Hackerman's sign-on for the new wattage, David Butler's segments recounting the history of KTRU, original skits and songs, and radio-themed songs to celebrate KTRU's increased wattage. Speakers: Norman Hackerman, David Butler
Contents include: On "To the Point," Thad Pugh talks to Dr. Gilbert Cuthbertson about the effects of immigration on Texas politics. Speakers: Gilbert Cuthbertson, Thad Pugh
Contents include: On "To the Point," Thad Pugh talks to Dr. Niels Nielsen about the moral majority in politics. Speakers: Niels Nielsen, Thad Pugh
Contents include: David Bunch reports the results of a KTRU/Thresher political phone survey conducted before the 1980 presidential election. Speaker: David Bunch
Contents include: "Presidential Forum" simulates a presidential debate with stand-ins for the candidates, Scott Hochberg for the John B. Anderson campaign, Dan O'Meara [sp?] for the Ronald Reagan campaign, Peter Elloway for the Clark campaign, and Barbara Stanley for the Pres. Jimmy Carter campaign. We deleted radio music at the end of the recording. Speakers: David Bunch, Richard Dees, Gilbert Cuthbertson, Scott Hochberg, Peter Elloway, Barbara Stanley
Contents include: Coverage of the 1980 election night both local and national. Dr. David Gow provides analysis. We have deleted radio music and fixed the speed at the end of the tape. Speakers: David Tuttle, David Bunch, David Gow, Gary Meade, Jimmy Carter, Dave Collins, Paul Colbert, Gene Jones, Mike Richards
Contents include: (00:01) Chapel services for Rice Owls football team; (02:10) Abercrombie Lab expansion; (04:45) Rice Owls football vs. SMU preview; (08:42) Rice's Quarterback Club meeting and pro games; (10:29) Family style dining; (11:31) Willy's Pub rent to Rice Memorial Center; (12:36) John "Grungy" Gladu on Baylor Bunny Show and Playboy magazine's coverage; (14:16) Sports reports; (20:27) Rice Players' "Caucasian Chalk Circle" review; (23:02) Weekend sports preview; (24:28) Weekend sports review; (26:15) Willy's Pub closing in summer; (28:30) SA schedule poll; (29:09) Student directories late; (30:40) Change to schedule; (31:11) No replacement for SA External VP; (31:37) Student directory delayed; (32:22) SA news; (33:51) Pres. Ronald Reagan's oath of office; (34:43) Policy Studies major; (35:51) Phi Beta Kappa fall contingent; (37:08) New ICSA building; (37:57) Wiess College votes against going co-ed; (40:19) Lynn Ashby speaks at Rice; (42:33) Rice Players' "What the Butler Saw" review; (44:32) TexPIRG possible dissolution; (45:30) Texas law to raise drinking age to 19. Speakers: Dave Chilton, Larry Allen, Hardie Bourland, Reginald Stoker, Randy Hertel, Jonathan Sadow, Gary Meade, Marion Hicks, Peter Rudenberg, John "Grungy" Gladu, David Bunch, Ed Holt, Tim Stout, Lynn Lednicky, Bill Brey, Debbie Gronke, Warren Burger, Dave Collins, Carl McDowell, Lynn Ashby
Contents include: On "To the Point," Thad Pugh talks to Dr. Pat Reiff about the sun. Speakers: Pat Reiff, Thad Pugh
Contents include: On "To the Point," Thad Pugh talks to Dr. Tom Hill about new data about Saturn. Speakers: Tom Hill, Thad Pugh
Contents include: On "To the Point," Thad Pugh talks to Dr. Joseph Short, Director of Oxfam America, about world hunger. Speakers: Joseph Short, Thad Pugh
Contents include: Frances Farenthold speaks about her life starting with her volunteerism, her law career, her higher learning administration career, her political career, the media, and sexism. Speakers: Frances Farenthold, Harold Hyman
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Harold Hyman about what the founding fathers intended when they created the U.S. Senate. Speakers: Harold Hyman, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Thad Pugh talks to Dr. Francis Doug Tuggle about the creation of the multi-national executive. Speakers: Francis Doug Tuddle, Thad Pugh
Contents include: On "To the Point," Thad Pugh talks to Dr. Jesse Hellums about the engineering shortage. Speakers: Jesse Hellums, Thad Pugh
Contents include: On "To the Point," Thad Pugh talks to Dr. Frank Bearden about stress in the U.S. Speakers: Frank Bearden, Thad Pugh
Contents include: (00:01) Jazz promo; (01:31) 10th year promos; (03:04) Bumper sticker promos; (07:48) SOB mystery cart; (08:23) Doo-wah; (09:26) 650 watts power promo; (10:29) Promos used on 650 watt sign-on night; (12:45) Chicken Skin Music promo; (14:02) Jazz Show promos; (15:58) Classics promo; (16:45) Owlman promos; (19:38) 10th anniversary promos; (23:37) Stan Barber's 10-year birthday promo; (29:32) Owlman Greek chorus; (30:46) 24-hour promos; (32:48) Not 24-hour promos; (34:24) Judy's concert promos; (36:14) Owlman promos; (38:49) Treasures of the 60s promo; (40:21) Beer Bike promo; (41:13) Summer broadcasting promo; (42:23) News promo; (43:09) Owlman promos; (46:30) Bumper sticker promos; (48:00) Sonlite intro; (50:46) "Best of Overplayed" tags. Speakers: Walter Keeler, Stan Barber, David Butler, Mike "Grungy" Gladu, Bob Puckette
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Virgil Topazio about humanities studies. Speakers: Virgil Topazio, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Ewa Thompson about the core curriculum. Speakers: Ewa Thompson, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: Father Andrew Greeley speaks about the religious imagination and a sociological theory of religion. Speakers: Andrew Greeley, Harold Hyman, William Martin
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Covey Oliver about the settlement with Iran. Speakers: Scott Hochberg, Covey Oliver
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Hugh Anderson about experiments on the space shuttle, specifically the Northern Lights experiment. Speakers: Hugh Anderson, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. John Polking about deficiencies in math learning. Speakers: John Polking, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. William Wilson about lasers. Speakers: William Wilson, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: Walter Underwood interview Joan Jett and her Blackhearts drummer, Lee Crystal. They discuss recent shows in the South, updates on The Runaways members, life in the New York music scene, her current sound, Urgh! A Music War appearance, their new album, and touring in Japan while with The Runaways. Jett and Crystal do a station ID. We deleted dead air between the interview and the station ID. Speakers: Joan Jett, Lee Crystal, Walter Underwood
Contents include: (00:01) Fire in Willy's Pub; (00:47) Will Rice and Hanszen College officer elections; (01:40) Student Associaiton election issues; (02:17) President's Lecture Series - Lewis Thomas; (04:24) food Services study at other universities; (05:31) Blanket tax for BSU, CSU, and RAMAS, eventually failed; (08:06) Wiess and Lovett College officer elections; (08:46) Student Association election issues; (09:45) Dr. Pepper truck driver assault; (11:15) Thefts on campus; (11:59) Bike stolen and returned 8 months later; (13:25) Baker Shakespeare Fair; (20:15) Baker Shakespeare "All's Well That Ends Well" review; (22:50) Wiess Tabletop's "Pippin" review; (25:08) Rice Players' "Antigone" review; (27:19) Food Committee food poll results and recommendations; (28:22) Texas bill to raise drinking age to 19; (30:10) Student directory. Speakers: Steve McCall, Bill Brey, Paul Williamson, John Szalkowski, Benny Barnes, Lynn Lednicky, Mary Voswinkle, David Bunch, Debbie Gronke, Tom Evans, Mike Guth, Sharon Hughes, Geoff Spradley, Gary Meade
Contents include: On "Up in the Air," Walter Underwood and David Bunch interview Student Association candidates. We deleted radio music throughout the recording. Speakers: Walter Underwood, David Bunch, Lynn Lednicky, Dan Hu, Doug Gardner, Ed Keller, Sherry Spears, Cecelia Calaby, David Pickett, Kim O'Connor, Ed Poole, Warren Fisher, John Simons, Dave Phillips
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Richard Smalley about laser use in chemistry. Speakers: Richard Smalley, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Curt Michel about communication with space life forms. Speakers: Curt Michel, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: Dr. Lewis Thomas speaks about the values of science, more specifically, biological sciences, earth sciences, scientific research for industry, scientific education, and social sciences. Speaker: Lewis Thomas, Harold Hyman
Contents include: On "Up in the Air," Debbie Gronke and Dave Collins talks to Marion Hicks and Joyce Rubash about room and board and central kitchen food. Recording does not start at the beginning of the episode. We deleted radio music in the middle of the program and at the end. Speakers: Debbie Gronke, Marion Hicks, Joyce Rubash, Dave Collins
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Hardy Bourland about industrial research at academic institutions, Rice Engineering Design and Development Institute. Speakers: Hardy Bourland, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Sir Rudolf E. Peierls about nuclear weaponry and the arms race. Speakers: Rudolf E. Peierls, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Herb Ward about the environmental impact of the space shuttle program. Speakers: Herb Ward, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Gaston Rimlinger about Reaganomics. Speakers: Gaston Rimlinger, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Salomon Bochner about the intersection between mathematics and the humanities. He also discusses the Scientia Institute. Speakers: Salomon Bochner, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Baruch Brody about consumer protection laws, more specifically product liability laws. Speakers: Baruch Brody, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Geoff Winningham about how he became a photographer. Speakers: Geoff Winningham, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to David Hunt about the future of financial aid. Speakers: David Hunt, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Martin Wiener about the British economy. Speakers: Martin Wiener, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Francis Loewenheim about dealing with the economic downturn and how the U.S. economy compares to world markets. Speakers: Francis Loewenheim, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Meredith Gibbs about wiretapping laws to stop drug crimes. Speakers: Meredith Gibbs, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Niels Nielsen about church supported schools. Speakers: Niels Nielsen, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Stephen Klineberg about the baby boom generation. Speakers: Stephen Klineberg, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Reggie Dufour about future research on space shuttles. Speakers: Reggie Dufour, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. John Ambler about French politics. Speakers: John Ambler, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Joan Strassmann about power struggles in the insect world. Speakers: Joan Strassmann, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Bob Molder about job options for Humanities graduates. Speakers: Bob Molder, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Chad Gordon about the rise of women, displaced homemakers, returning to the workplace. Speakers: Chad Gordon, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Robert Dix about Mexico. Speakers: Robert Dix, Scott Hochberg
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to O. Jack Mitchell about architecture planning in Houston. Speakers: O. Jack Mitchell, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. William Martin about the TV and radio evangelist audience. Speakers: William Martin, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Kate Beckingham about recombinant DNA research in agriculture. Speakers: Kate Beckingham, Scott Hochberg
The "Freshman Show" starts with introductions from some of the current College Secretaries. There is a group interview with Stephen Klineberg, Jeff Kurtzman, and Harold Rorschach. They discuss sampling courses, registering for courses, the honor code, having fun, exploring various fields of study, and athletics. After the interview, Dave Collins reviews major local and national news stories. Recording ends abruptly. Speakers: Alice von Eiff, Erma Turner, Jeanette Bryant, Kay Lake, Toni Paine, Babs Willis, Kitty Yelenosky, Debbie Gronke, Stephen Klineberg, Jeff Kurtzman, Harold Rorschach, Dave Collins, Bill Brey, David Butler
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Ed Miller about the productivity of Texas workers. Speakers: Ed Miller, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Gilbert Cuthbertson about current Supreme Court cases.
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Pete Gibson about his experience attending Rice University with a visual impairment. Speakers: Scott Hochberg, Pete Gibson
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Richard Smith about how China deals with westernization. Speakers: Scott Hochberg, Richard Smith
Contents include: Eric Taylor with James Gilmer perform and and answer questions on "Chicken Skin Music." We deleted extraneous audio at the end. Speakers: Eric Taylor, James Gilmer, David-John Scribner
Contents include: Dave Collins interviews Rice Soccer Club Coach Mike Henshaw, co-captain Bob Corrigan, and player Bob Goeddel about the team's goals, its budget, its skills, officiating, playing aggressively, and the history of soccer in Texas. Speakers: Mike Henshaw, Bob Goeddel, Bob Corrigan, Dave Collins
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Don Huddle about undocumented workers. Speakers: Don Huddle, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Fred von der Mehden about politics in Southeast Asia. Speakers: Fred von der Mehden, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Gaston Rimlinger about agriculture in Africa. Speakers: Gaston Rimlinger, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Michael Watkins about the psychology of memory. Speakers: Michael Watkins, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Niels Nielsen about religion in Africa. Speakers: Niels Nielsen, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "Up in the Air," Stan Barber talks to Lawrence Kersten and Karen Kayser Kersten about their book "The Love Exchange." Speakers: Stan Barber, Lawrence Kersten, Karen Kayser Kersten, David Hudson
Contents include: Michael Zakes speaks to Kathy Valentine and Charlotte Caffey of The Go-Go's about the band's history, playing with other bands, their album cover, their label and producer, and touring. Includes a station ID. Speakers: Kathy Valentine, Michael Zakes, Charlotte Caffey
Contents include: (00:01) A Radio First; (00:32) "Classics" opening sequence; (02:35) "Chicken Skin Music" promo; (03:32) Jazz promo; (04:29) Kiss Ass Rock 'n Roll ID; (04:43) Dave Collins, Puckette, and Elvis Costello ID; (05:14) Speakers explosion ID; (05:51) Walter Keeler ID; (06:03) Stereo ID; (06:09) Boing ID; (06:20) Chinese ID; (06:32) Crazy Harry, Aaron Dvoretzky ID; (06:39) Dolphins on telephone ID; (07:01) Walter Cronkite ID; (07:10) Jazz promos; (09:39) Nuclear Freeze concert at Tranquility Park; (13:26) "Sewey Mole" by Barnes and Barnes; (19:13) "Whirlwind Tours"; (21:21) Stan Ridgway of Wall of Voodoo promo for BBC College Concert; (23:22) OxFahMeal Skip PSA; (24:36) BBC concert series promo; (24:58) "Romanoff and Juliet" promos; (27:28) Beer Bike promo; (28:05) KTRU/Sammy the Owl promo; (29:26) Jazz show donor announcement; (29:42) Jazz in Germany; (30:14) Element of Crime. Speakers: Stu Derby, David Hoehl, Bill Bonner, Walter Keeler, Aaron Dvoretzky, Walter Cronkite, Perry Webb, Bob Weber, Mike May, John Glady, Stan Ridgway, Kevin Long, Stan Barber
Contents include: On "Up in the Air," talks to Dr. Charles Thaxton about evolution in chemical processes, more specifically the evolutionism versus creationism. He also discusses his book "Life: The Crisis in Chemistry." We deleted radio music at the beginning and the end of this recording. Speakers: Charles Thaxton, Stan Barber
Contents include: Jim Fowler and Michael F. Zakes talk to members of Echo and the Bunnymen about their origins, defining their sound, touring, their favorite bands, other British New Wave bands, and performing. The interview includes a station ID. Speakers: Ian McCulloch, Will Sergeant, Les Pattinson, Jim Folwer, Michael F. Zakes
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Gaston Rimlinger about social security programs around the world. Speakers: Gaston Rimlinger, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Herb Ward about the future of clean drinking water. Speakers: Herb Ward, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. John Bryant about high interest rates. Speakers: John Bryant, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: Ralph Nader speaks to the Rice community in the Grand Hall of the Rice Memorial Center. He discusses corporate crime and accountability, environmental issues, ethical whistleblowers, ubiquity of television advertising, political inclinations of college students, and cigarettes. Speaker: Ralph Nader
Contents include: (00:01) Interview of Registrar-elect; (01:28) Appointment of J. Larry Livingston as new Dean of the Shepherd School of Music; (02:25) New Rice Stadium scoreboard; (03:26) Lovett Casino Party theme; (04:30) Review of President's Lecture Series speaker Willy Spuehler; (05:28) Sports review/preview; (07:52) Baptist Student Union Rock-a-thon; (09:26) Minor explosion in Chem lab; (11:54) Student Association election results; (12:19) Rolling Stones not playing in Rice Stadium; (13:01) Chem lab explosion update; (13:42) "Carnival in Rio" party; (14:40) Weekend sports wrap-up; (16:38) Lovett College refusal to use new food service ID checker; (17:12) Sports review/preview; (21:07) Ralph Nader speaking at Rice; (23:31) Pres. Ronald Reagan on death of Egyptian President Anwar Sadat; (24:12) Upcoming MOB show written by Lynn Ashby; (24:54) Jones School's Entrepreneurship Conference; (25:36) Jones College's "The Man who Came to Dinner" review; (27:33) Rolling Stones concert information; (28:23) President Norman Hackerman and student leaders meeting about the Texas A and M homecoming game; (29:15) Sports review/preview; (31:32) Hanszen College's "The Fantisticks" review; (3:57) Question and answer session with Eleanor Tinsley. Speakers: Jonathan Berk, John Williamson, Brad McIver, James Groves, Dave Collins, Jonathan Sadow, Greg Roberts, Cactus Cagle, Dave Collins, David Hoehl, Dalen Keys, T. G. Collins, Diana Howard Susan Goodfriend, Russ Coleman, Ralph Nader, Ronald Reagan, Jeanne Cooper, Norm Lindsey, David Tuttle, Gwen Richard, Eleanor Tinsley
Contents include: David-John Scribner talks to Albert Collins about his beginnings in Houston, how he got started in the music business and playing the electric guitar, musical collaborations, playing in Houston, and touring. Speakers: Albert Collins, David-John Scribner
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Alex Dessler about the future of the space program and NASA. Speakers: Alex Dessler, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Paul Cooper about classical music trends. Speakers: Scott Hochberg, Paul Cooper
Contents include: (00:01) Political rally at RMC Grand Hall for Kathy Whitmire, Lane Lalor, George Greanias; (02:24) Sheriff Jack Heard on election night; (03:02) Louis Macey on election night; (03:30) Lance Lalor on election night; (05:45) November faculty meeting; (07:40) Moral Majority Debate in RMC Grand Hall; (08:21) Rev. Billy Graham's crusade at Rice Stadium; (09:10) Sports and weather; (09:55) Texas A and M student suspended for sword; (10:26) Will Rice College names Pres. Ronald Reagan honorary member; (11:25) Sports review/preview; (13:58) Dr. Jean-Claude De Braemaker interview on Mayor Kathy Whitmire posters; (15:26) Lance Lalor wins City Controller; (16:58) George Greanias wins City Council District C; (17:54) Kathy Whitmire mayoral campaign worker interview; (18:03) Lance Lalor on voter turnout; (18:22) NCAA bowl predictions; (20:25) Sports review/preview; (22:49) SA Senate meeting review; (23:57) Sports review/preview; (24:53) Wiess College becoming tamer; (26:32) Sports review/preview; (28:43) NBC News visits Rice for student reaction to draft registration; (29:54) Leonardo Da Vinci exhibit at Sewall Gallery; (30:37) Snow at Rice; (31:44) Hanszen College fire; (33:12) Room and Board increase; (34:46) Rice student Margaret Fossi found dead; (35:44) The Judy's; (36:07) SA Secretary vacancy; (36:34) Space Shuttle Columbia; (37:08) Sports preview; (38:20) C.R.A.P. Creative Radio Announcement Programming; (39:42) Ralph Records 10th anniversary; (41:30) Bad News. We adjusted the speed from 41:30 to the end. Speakers: Dave Collins, George Greanias, Jack Heard, Louis Macey, Lance Lalor, Debbie Gronke, James Groves, Jonathon Sadow, David Tuttle, Jean-Claude de Braemaker, Cindy Childers, Lynn Lednicky, Greg Roberts
Contents include: Three political ads for George Greanias, running for City Council District C. We deleted extraneous audio at the beginning of this recording. Speakers: George Greanias
Contents include: On "Chicken Skin Music," the Banded Geckos perform. Speakers: Tim Taylor, Evelyne Taylor, Russell Fory, Gary Young, David John Scribner
Contents include: Dr. William Martin moderates a forum with David Berg and Cal Thomas debating the moral majority and related issues pertaining to the inclusion of religious ideas in government. Speakers: Cal Thomas, David Berg, William Martin
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Allen Matusow about the potential resurgence of politicals radicals. Speakers: Allen Matusow, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Don Clayton about the nature the universe. Speakers: Don Clayton, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Frank Fisher about the harmful effects of lead shot in the bird population. This tape suffered from sticky shed syndrome and thus has playback issues. We have altered the recording to normalize the speed. Speakers: Frank Fisher, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Sarah Hrdy about the women's movement. Speakers: Scott Hochberg, Sarah Hrdy
Contents include: Jim Fowler and Michael F. Zakes talk to members of The Fleshtones about the band history, touring and performing, London, and recording their new album. The interview includes songs from the Action Dogs a side project for Jan Marek Pakulski and a station ID. Speakers: Bill Milhizer, Peter Zaremba, Keith Streng, Gordon Spaeth, Jim Fowler, Michael F. Zakes, Jan Marek Pakulski
Contents include: C. Kemp interviews Robert Fripp about restarting King Crimson, touring, communication and interviews, goal as a musician, music composition, and his upcoming album. Speakers: Robert Fripp, C Kemp
Contents include: The Rice Jazz Ensemble performs at Hamman Hall under the direction of Ken Dye with guest artist Larry Slezak. This recording has technical difficulties. We deleted radio music during the performance's intermission. Performers: Ken Dye, Larry Slezak, Grant Gist, John Godwin, John McDaniel, Germaine Petry
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. David Parsons about his face casting project with the world's tallest woman. Speakers: David Parsons, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Esther de Vecsey about the Leonardo Da Vinci exhibition and the artist. Speakers: Esther de Vecsey, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Stephen Klineberg about the changing attitudes of opinionn polls. Speakers: Scott Hochberg, Stephen Klineberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Susan and Roderick McIntosh about archeological finds in west Africa. Speakers: Scott Hochberg, Susan McIntosh, Roderick McIntosh
Contents include: The interviewer talks to Roky Erickson and the Resurrectionists about their musical style, about the 13th Floor Elevators, favorite artists, other albums, and their set list. We deleted extraneous audio at the beginning, middle, and end of the recording. Speakers: Roky Erickson, Jimmy Jones, Brian Curley, Carl Giesecke
Contents include: A promo made up of other recordings in celebration of KTRU's 10th anniversary.
Contents include: On "Chicken Skin Music," Charlie and Ann Heymann talk about how they find their songs, the history of the Gaelic harp, and their musical experience. Speakers: Charlie Heymann, Ann Heymann, David John Scribner
Contents include: An episode of "Owlman," satirical superhero student radio show about Rice University, about interest free loans and parking regulations. Speakers: Stan Barber, John Gladu, David Hoehl, Karen Pieper, Sharon Hughes, Paul Williamson, Greg Cagle
Contents include: Studio recording of Herschel Berry and the Natives. We deleted radio music at the end of the recording. Speakers: Herschel Berry, Wylie hudgins, Kenn Cordray, Karl Logan
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Gale Stokes about Poland from a historical perspective. Speakers: Gale Stokes, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. John Boles about slavery and the church. Speakers: John Boles, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Julie Taylor about the roles of men and women in Latin society, especially Eva Perón. Speakers: Julie Taylor, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Linda Adair about the rise in breastfeeding. Speakers: Linda Adair, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Peter Papademetriou about the effects of tall buildings in Houston. Speakers: Scott Hochberg, Peter Papademetriou
Contents include: Rice University student band Third Wave live at the Rice Memorial Center Grand Hall.
Contents include: The Judy's live at the Grand Hall of the Rice Memorial Center. Ends abruptly. Speakers: David B. Bean, Dane Cessac, Jeff Walton
Contents include: (00:01) Reward for killer/s of Margaret Fossi; (01:07) Pres. Ronald Reagan's "State of the Union"; (03:18) Baker College issuing parking tickets; (04:36) Brig. Gen. James Dozier rescued from Italian terrorists; (05:04) TexPIRG hires Jim Koenig as advisor; (05:48) C.R.A.P. Creative Radio Announcement Programming; (06:59) Telefund report; (07:30) Student Association elections; (08:15) ICSA fire; (08:35) Yves Klein exhibit; (09:17) Sam Houston State University fire; (10:04) Eleanor Evans basket weaving exhibit; (11:58) International Students Organization meeting; (12:39) Rice College Bowl team 2nd in regional tournament; (13:22) Unknown team; (13:58) Jim Koenig on TexPIRG; (14:39) Late filing candidates to SA positions; (16:08) Lynn Ashby at Lovett College; (18:16) James Robison at Morality Forum at RMC; (20:24) Student athletic fee increase; (21:22) Dr. Herbert Ganz speaking at Rice; (22:01) TexPIRG on blanket tax; (22:23) KTRU requests increase of blanket tax; (23:14) Owlcon III; (24:28) Sports review/preview; (25:41) SA elections; (26:10) Phi Beta Kappa; (27:42) Rice Women's Basketball win over Texas Lutheran TAIAW Division II; (29:37) TAIAW II Playoffs; (32:04) Jupiter Effect; (32:52) SA elections report; (33:35) New College Masters: Jones, Brown, Will Rice, Hanszen; (34:14) Rice tennis; (34:25) Tornadoes and survival tips; (35:28) Wiess College election results; (36:07) College Bowl playoffs; (36:47) Baker Shakespeare Festival; (39:35) Space Shuttle; (40:14) Eddie Speer of the Rice Food Committee; (41:26) Reaganomics Forum. Speakers: Dave Collins, Ronald Reagan, Norm Lindsey, Jim Koenig, Greg Roberts, Debbie Gronke, Dan Borden, Stan Barber, Chris Kreidler, Rice Morefield, Steve Bailey, David Tuttle, Tony Munn, Eddie Speer, James Robison, Stephen Klineberg
Contents include: On "Chicken Skin Music," Lucinda Williams performs and talks about how she got started, influences, early life, living in Houston, first album - "Ramblin'," "Happy Woman Blues," working with the Hemmer Ridge Mountain Boys, worst music venue, and album availability. Speakers: Lucinda Williams, David John Scribner
Contents include: On "Up in the Air," Vincent Uher talks to Dr. Susan Clark and Nanda Duhe about the Equal Rights Amendment. Speakers: Susan Clark, Nanda Duhe, Vincent Uher
Contents include: A performance by the MOB Concert Band. They perform works by Darius Milhaud, Leonard Bernstein, Paul Hindemith, among others.
Contents include: Walter Cronkite speaks at the Associates Dinner. He discusses retirement, his travels, NASA, foreign policy, and the state of journalism. Speakers: Walter Cronkite
Contents include: Student Association candidates discuss their platforms and views. We deleted the radio music break in the middle of this recording. Speakers: David Hudson, Doug Gardner, Brent Nyquist, Preston Smith, Brendon Cahill, Terri Henriott, Beth Sinclair, Dan Hu, Tom Morgan, Marlon Boarnet
Contents include: On "Chicken Skin Music," the Banded Geckos perform. Speakers: Tim Taylor, Evelyne Taylor, Russell Fory, Gary Young, David John Scribner
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Art Few about severe weather. Speakers: Art Few, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Richard Smith about economic changes in China. Speakers: Scott Hochberg, Richard Smith
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Robert Hall about how African slave culture merged with white culture. Speakers: Scott Hochberg, Robert Hall
Contents include: Scott Hochberg moderates three games: Rice University vs. California State - Fresno, Rice University vs. Brigham Young University, and Rice University vs. California State - Fresno. Speakers: Matt Kemple, Ronald Mann, Michael Lewis, Susan Faust, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: (00:01) Parking changes for new Mudd Computer Science building; (00:34) Reaganomics forum; (01:49) Professors receiving promotions; (03:08) Alan Kiepper new professor; (05:16) 1982 Beer-Bike races; (06:39) SWC Golf Tournament results. Speakers: Mary Voswinkle, David Tuttle, Dave Collins, Alan Kiepper, Norman Hackerman, Jonathon Sadow
Contents include: These are satirical programs/skits aired on April 1, 1982. (00:01) Beside the Point; (07:43) Classic Classics Nouveaux; (12:41) KTRU editorial; (14:21) Norts Spews; (18:11) 5 o'clock snooze; (22:11) Hammond song; (22:55) April Fool's promo; (23:23) Kiss-ass rock n' roll; (23:39) PSA - Orphan orgy. Speakers: Scott Hochberg
Contents include: Dave Collins and David Tuttle call the 1982 Beer Bike Men's race. Speakers: Dave Collins, David Tuttle
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Edward Dix about the war in El Salvador. Speakers: Edward Dix, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Ken Kennedy about growing presence of computers in society. Speakers: Ken Kennedy, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Stephen Klineberg about new peace movement. Speakers: Scott Hochberg, Stephen Klineberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Steve Klaine about the problem with hydrilla. Speakers: Scott Hochberg, Steve Klaine
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Don Huddle about undocumented workers and INS [Immigration and Naturalization Service] raids, part 1. Speakers: Don Huddle, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Pat Reiff about the mass transit system and environmental issues. Speakers: Scott Hochberg, Pat Reiff
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. John Freeman about the future of space exploration and solar cells. Speakers: John Freeman, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: Ray Isle interviews members of the band Renaissance. Michael Dunford and Peter Gosling discuss the formation of the band, adding new members, touring, writing new music, and their new album and record label. Speakers: Ray Isle, Michael Dunford, Peter Gosling
Contents include: Michael Zakes speaks to Laurie Anderson about her music, performances, electronic equipment in the studio and on-stage, getting radio airplay, changing record labels, recording next to an elevator shaft, favorite music, favorite writers, and her current tour. She also does a station ID. Speakers: Michael Zakes, Laurie Anderson
Contents include: On "Chicken Skin Music," Art and Ivan Neville talk about new music, influences, New Orleans, "Fiyo On The Bayou," The Meters, and songwriting. Speakers: Art Neville, Ivan Neville, David John Scribner
Contents include: On "Chicken Skin Music," the Banded Geckos perform. Speakers: Tim Taylor, Evelyne Taylor, Russell Fory, Gary Young, David John Scribner
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. John Hughes about the insanity defense. Speakers: John Hughes, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Julie Taylor about the Falkland Islands. Speakers: Julie Taylor, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Norman Hackerman about safeguarding U.S. academic intelligence from Russia. Speakers: Norman Hackerman, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "Chicken Skin Music," Porky Cohen and Roomful of Blues talk about their careers, influences, and new music. Speakers: David John Scribner, Porky Cohen
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Don Huddle about undocumented workers, part 2. Speakers: Don Huddle, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: Mark Linimon interviews Roky Erickson about his new album, meaning of his songs, and heavy metal. Speakers: Roky Erickson, Mark Linimon
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: Michael Zakes talks to David Wakeling and Andy Cox of The Beat, also known as The English Beat, about their cover tunes, their albums, touring, 2 Tone, ska, Saxa, politics, musical influences, switching record labels, S Concert, charities, and American food. They do a station ID. We deleted radio music. Speakers: Dave Wakeling, Andy Cox, Michael Zakes
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Bill Martin about the rapture. Speakers: William Martin, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Gaston Rimlinger about the balanced budget. Speakers: Gaston Rimlinger, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. John Bryant about the effects of high interest rates. Speakers: John Bryant, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: (00:01) Summer in review - Hackerman injured, Charles Duncan named head of Board of Governors, Josephine Abercrombie named Vice-President of Board of Governors, William D. Broyles named Editor-In-Chief of Newsweek, Lovett College storeroom robbed, New campus emergency telephone system, new camps police bicycle patrol, New buildings Mudd Building and Herring Hall, Iranian Riot and SMU, Margaret Fossi killer found - Coral Eugene Watts, Matriculation ceremonies, Casino Party and underage drinking, Dr. Don Benjamin faculty address, Wiess college pranks during Activities Fair; (11:55) Preview of SWC football season; (23:01) Graham Stebbings dies in auto accident; (24:08) Dr. William Akers on parking; (25:23) Classroom shortage; (26:16) Pres. Ronald Reagan on Lebanon and the PLO; (27:21) Graham Stebbings funeral arrangements; (28:01) Sports preview, annual SWC press tour; (32:31) Student election schedule; (33:41) Stadium scoreboard damaged by lightning; (34:32) James Groves' death; (35:27) John Cox, new Trustee; (36:30) Sports review/preview; (39:40) Sports review/preview; (42:56) Problems with Rice phone system; (44:02) Two reviews of Rice Players' "Major Barbara". Speakers: David Tuttle, Mary Voswinkle, Jonathan Sadow, Katherine Brown, Mary Ellen Trunko, Norman Lindsey, William Akers, Dave Collins, Ronald Reagan, Don Benjamin, Jeff Long, Kathy Brown, Lynn Boyden
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Gordon Smith about economic protectionism. Speakers: Gordon Smith, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Ed Miller about large corporate structures and their efficiency. Speakers: Ed Miller, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Doug Tuggle about the economic recovery. Speakers: Doug Tuggle, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Elizabeth Long about how women perform in traditionally male jobs. Speakers: Elizabeth Long, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. John Boles about writing corporate histories. Speakers: John Boles, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: As part of the President's Lecture Series, the Right Honourable the Viscount of Tonypandy Thomas George Thomas speaks on parliamentary democracy in his address entitled "Parliamentary Democracy in the Space Age." Speakers: George Thomas
Contents include: (00:01) President's Lecture Series - George Thomas, 1st Viscount Tonypandy; (00:46) Sammy the Owl election winners; (02:25) Pres. Ronald Reagan address America's Black Colleges; (03:26) President's Lecture Series - Sid William Rees-Mogg; (04:37) Sports review/preview; (07:56) Del Taco's giving away tickets to Rice vs. Texas Tech football game; (08:58) Bonnie Horton starting "Waist Watchers" program; (09:49) U.S. Congress Texas district 25 debate; (11:33) Gubernatorial candidate Mark White on straw poll; (12:08) Sports review/preview; (15:18) Student directories; (16:15) New Biochemical Engineering major; (17:00) Sports review/preview; (20:03) Warren Dollar death; (20:33) Joint University of Houston Program Council Joe Jackson concert nixed; (21:18) ICSA part of computer mail network; (21:57) HRH Prince Philip to visit Rice; (23:15) Sports review/preview; (26:03) Football games rescheduled for Mirage Bowl; (27:17) Robert Huggins on Warren Dollar; (27:51) Review of Wiess Tabletop's "Butley"; (29:15) Sports review/preview; (32:49) President's Lecture Series - Tom Stoppard; (34:07) Subcommittee of the Rice Research Council to study the effect of university services on research; (34:59) Gov. Bill Clements endorsed by Ku Klux Klan; (35:18) Rep. Mickey Leland on Black Republicans; (35:40) Lovett College elevator fixed; (36:33) Sports review/preview; (39:58) Watson fellowship nominees; (40:56) Harris Country election returns; (45:13) Telednor Olympics and Esperanza. Speakers: George Thomas, Doug Mischlich, Ivan Putzke, Dave Collins, Brad Borg, Ronald Reagan, David Tuttle, William Rees-Mogg, Jonathan Sadow, Mike Fabion, Mike Andrews, Jeff Calvert, Gilbert Cuthbertson, Mark White, Jeff Long, Robert Huggins, Lynn Boyden, Tom Stoppard, Mickey Leland
Contents include: As part of the President's Lecture Series, Sir William Rees-Mogg speaks on the free press in his address entitled "In Defense of the First Amendment." Speakers: Robert Patten, William Rees-Mogg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Chandler Davidson about at-large council districts and fairness. Speakers: Chandler Davidson, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to John Evans about the college graduate job market. Speakers: John Evans, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Stephen Klineberg about the Houston survey and beliefs of the Houston population. Speakers: Stephen Klineberg, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: Candidates' Form for U.S. Congress District 25 featuring Mike Andrews, Mike Faubion, and Jeff Calvert. The candidates discuss taxes, diversity of the district, shrinking government, Russia, the draft, abortion, gun control, research, financial aid, and the military. Speakers: Mike Andrews, Mike Faubion, Jeff Calvert, Gilbert Cuthbertson
Contents include: On "S and M," a KTRU DJ talks to Jon King of Gang of Four about recording "Songs of the Free," touring, being considered a political band, "I Love a Man in Uniform," Mike Howlett, recording on "Dance Fever," and music videos. Speakers: Jon King
Contents include: Jeanne Cooper interviews Suzy Roche about the Honolulu Chorus, her new album, working with Robert Fripp, her guitar playing, songwriting, astrology, and touring. Roche does a station ID. Speakers: Suzzy Roche, Jeanne Cooper
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Al Young about being a novelist. Speakers: Al Young, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: As part of the President's Lecture Series, Tom Stoppard speaks about plays and his own work. Speakers: Tom Stoppard, Terrence Doody
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Elizabeth Long about women's reading groups. Speakers: Elizabeth Long, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Lynda Crist about researching confederate history for the Jefferson Davis project. Speakers: Lynda Crist, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: Starts abruptly. This radio program includes Joseph Lomax introducing and discussing songs. He and Hally Wood talks about John Lomax, Jr., field recordings, Sugar Land prison songs, Lead Belly, and the Preservation Hall Band. Hally Wood and Joseph Lomax also sing traditional folk songs. Speakers: Joseph Lomax, Hally Wood
Contents include: (00:01) Review of Brown College's "More Sinned Against Than Sinning"; (01:34) Review of Hanszen College's "Hair"; (02:58) World Wildlife Symposium featuring HRH Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh; (04:47) Rice Athletic Hall of Fame inductees; (06:16) Review of Rice Players' "Dirty Linen" and "New-Found-Land"; (07:37) Faculty Senate nixes core curriculum changes, approves letter grade system and successive Bachelor degrees; (08:56) Sports review/preview; (12:01) Female jogger kidnapped; (14:33) Review of Sid Richardson College's "The Lion in Winter"; (16:50) Thresher editor campaign statements; (18:39) Christmas salesmen in colleges; (19:49) Sports review/preview; (23:25) Sports basketball season preview; (34:41) Sports review/preview; (38:09) "Preppy Handbook" writer interview; (42:07) Sports review/preview; (43:33) Sports review/preview. Speakers: Kathy Brown, Lynn Boyden, David Tuttle, Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, Jonathon Sadow, Jeanne Cooper, Christopher Ekren, Lisa Birnbach, Mary Voswinkle
Contents include: Taking place in the Rice Memorial Center Grand Hall, the World Wildlife Fund Symposium covers the topics of tropical forests and primates, especially deforestation. Speakers: Norman Hackerman, Frank Mancuso, HRH Prince Philip, Thomas Lovejoy, Russell Mittermeier, Elwyn Simons, Sarah Hrdy, Mark Plotkin, Randall Susman, Rogert Tory Peterson, Stephen Nash
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Brian Huberman about a documentary on undocumented immigrants. Speakers: Brian Huberman, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Gilbert Cutherbertson about the recent Texas Democratic election sweep. Speakers: Gilbert Cuthbertson, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: Dr. Glenn T. Seaborg gives the J. Newton Rayzor Lecture in the Grand Hall of the Rice Memorial Center. He discusses modern alchemy and the periodic table. Speakers: Glenn T. Seaborg
Contents include: On "Up in the Air," David Hudson speaks with Madeleine Strum, David Phillips, and Mary McCue about policy suggestions coming out of the Food Plan Forum, more specifically reducing the cost of the meal plan and an upcoming food service poll. We deleted radio music at the end of the recording. Speakers: David Phillips, Madeleine Strum, Mary McCue, David Hudson
Contents include: On "Chicken Skin Music," Banded Geckos perform live. Speakers: Tim Taylor, Evelyne Taylor, David-John Scribner
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Gerald Phillips about the nuclear option. Speakers: Gerald Phillips, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. John Anderson about the research on and potential of Antarctica. Speakers: John Anderson, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: (00:01) Pre-Bowl game report and predictions; (11:11) Sports review/preview; (12:57) Sports review/preview; (15:13) Phi Beta Kappa; (16:21) Rice athletics signs deal with local cable TV channel; (17:10) Bill Evans Trio Dance Workshop; (17:44) Jonathon Berk found not guilty in University Court; (21:08) Directions '83 formerly Majors Day; (23:14) Stadium lot burglaries; (24:17) Students Association Senate meeting - Marion Hicks vs. SA President and College Presidents; (25:58) Sports review/preview; (28:13) Lynn Ashby speaks at Lovett College; (30:18) Faculty Senate grade changes, second B.A. allowed; (31:39) Review of Lovett College's "The Bald Soprano" and "A Resounding Tinkle"; (33:42) Houston Chronicle analysis of college majors in the 1980s; (35:56) Rice Players' "Tango"; (36:36) Feminist Lecture Series; (38:51) Sports review/preview; (41:11) Houston Police Department's Directed Area Response Team [DART]; (42:26) Rice Athletic Luncheon. Speakers: Jonathon Sadow, David Tuttle, Shelina Shariff, Grace-Marie Brown, Lynn Boyden, Dan Groneck
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Don Huddle about the devaluation of the peso. Speakers: Don Huddle, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: Michael Zakes talks to Jim Kerr of Simple Minds about the band's name, band's history, band members, Brian McGee, signing with Virgin, Peter Gabriel, influences, and title for "New Gold Dream (81-82-83-84). He does a station ID. Speakers: Jim Kerr, Michael Zakes
Contents include: Michael Zakes talks to Jody Harris of The Raybeats about their style of music, "Guitar Beat," program notes, songwriting, working with Philip Glass, and touring. He does a station ID. Speakers: Jody Harris, Michael Zakes
Contents include: On "Chicken Skin Music," David John Scribner talks to Richard Dobson about his older albums, his current work, playing in Austin, "Piece of Wood and Steel," why he became a musician and his influences. Speakers: David John Scribner, Richard Dobson
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Ken Kennedy about the long time use of personal computers. Speakers: Ken Kennedy, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Phil Bedient about the Texas water shortage and treatment. Speakers: Phil Bedient, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: Alex De Grassi and Scott Cossu perform at Rockefeller's. Speakers: Alex De Grassi, Scott Cossu
Contents include: Alex De Grassi and Scott Cossu perform at Rockefeller's. Speakers: Alex De Grassi, Scott Cossu
Contents include: Michael Zakes interview Alex De Grassi and Scott Cossu about Windham Hill Records, music, and touring. They also do an station ID. Speakers: Alex De Grassi, Scott Cossu, Michael Zakes
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Ed Williams about small businesses and the recession. Speakers: Ed Williams, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Gordon Wittenberg about energy efficiency and architecture. Speakers: Gordon Wittenberg, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Ira Gruber and Capt. Mike Perry about training military personnel. Speakers: Ira Gruber, Scott Hochberg, Mike Perry
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. John Boles about the culture of the southern U.S. from a historical perspective. Speakers: John Boles, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: (00:01) Campanile Photography Editor fired; (01:01) Possibility of graduation speaker at 1983 commencement; (02:01) Student Association election ballots finalized; (06:06) Review of Rice Catholic Student Association's "Godspell"; (08:00) Feminist Lecture Series; (10:00) Sports review/preview; (12:33) Rice Athletic Luncheon; (16:59) Sports review/preview; (21:41) Rice Program Council to spend more money to show popular films; (23:13) Dr. Donald Wood death; (23:48) Sports review/preview; (29:20) First round of results from Student Association elections; (30:10) President's Lecture Series - Philip Leder; (32:13) Faculty Senate - grading system changed, graduation requirements stiffened; (34:05) Measles outbreak at University of Houston; (35:09) Sports review/preview; (39:20) Houston area Telefund results; (39:59) African Metal Art exhibit in Sewall Gallery; (41:11) Feminist Lecture Series - Dolores Hayden; (43:46) Sports review/preview. Speakers: David Tuttle, Dan Groneck, Kathy Brown, Grace-Marice Brown, Jonathon Sadow, Anne Laffoon, Debs Ramser, Shelina Shariff
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. David Brady about elections and policy changes. Speakers: David Brady, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Gilbert Cuthbertson and Dr. Robert Stein about U.S. Rep. Phil Gramm's switch from Democrat to Republican. Speakers: Gilbert Cuthbertson, Scott Hochberg, Robert Stein
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Stephen Klineberg about the changing American family. Speakers: Stephen Klineberg, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: Michael Zakes talks to Loudon Wainwright III about his new album, its album cover, and songwriting. Wainwright is backstage at Rockefeller's. Speakers: Loudon Wainwright III, Michael Zakes
Contents include: On "Chicken Skin Music," Cynthia A. Fisher and Gary Graves perform their music. Speakers: Cynthia A. Fisher, Gary Graves, David-John Scribner
Contents include: (00:01) Review of Rice Players' "Bodies"; (01:10) Review of Baker Shakespeare's "Merry Wives of Windsor"; (02:20) Review of Wiess Tabletop's "Chicago"; (04:23) Hospitalization of Proctor Edward Holt; (04:49) Sports review/preview; (08:36) Former British PM Edward Heath speaks at Rice; (10:28) Proctor Edward Holt quadruple-bypass surgery; (11:03) Sports review/preview; (15:00) Beer Bike preview; (18:21) Allan Ginsberg poetry reading at Hanszen College; (21:40) Sports review/preview; (25:52) Variable meal plans; (27:37) Sports review/preview; (31:40) Self-Study for 1983-1984; (32:54) TexPIRG vs. The Rice Republicans; (42:54) Sports review/preview. Speakers: Lynn Byden, Shelina Shariff, Kathy Brown, David Tuttle, Jonathan Sadow, Dan Groneck, Dave Collins, Debs Ramser, Allan Ginsburg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Patricia Seed about families structures in different societies. Speakers: Patricia Seed, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Elizabeth Long about how the changes in the family structure have affected children. Speakers: Elizabeth Long, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. William Martin about pro-family groups and their concerns. Speakers: William Martin, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: As part of the President's Lecture Series, Dr. Donald Fredrickson speaks about the relationship between the government and the university and research and development. Speaker: Donald Fredrickson
Contents include: Live performance of Peter Ustinov's "Romanoff and Juliet." The audio quality is poor. Speakers: Karen Pieper, Ray Isle, Bob Phillips, John Gladu, David Tuttle, Grace-Marie Brown, David McClain, Cahty Wallcott, Peter Rudenberg, Sharon Hughes, Aaron Dvoretzky, Kathleen Robertson, Jay Grob
Contents include: Roy Book Binder performing live at Anderson Fair Retail Restaurant. Recording produced and mixed by Tim Leatherwood. Speaker: Roy Book Binder
Contents include: Bill Brey interviews Carolyn Ritter and Allison Dorsey of the John Brown Anti-Klan Committee. They discuss how the group formed, activities in Houston, "Fire on the Water" documentary incident, upcoming Klan events, the Klan's new identity, John Brown committee's demonstrations, and tactics used by similar groups. Speakers: Bill Brey, Carolyn Ritter, Allison Dorsey
Contents include: (00:01) Michael Zakes interviews members of Modern English. Robbie Grey and Gary McDowell discuss their tour, and their new album. It includes a station ID. (05:54) Michael Zakes interviews members of The Fixx. Cy Cumin and Adam Woods discuss touring, how the band formed, their albums, Rupert Hine, working on new music, songwriting, and the band's name. It includes a station ID. (23:34) Michael Zakes interviews Jet Black of The Stranglers. They discuss their music, songwriting, musical themes, and their name. It includes a station ID. (30:26) Todd Nicks [?] and Ray [?] interview members of Madness. Graham "Suggs" McPherson and Mark Bedford discuss the forming of the band, touring, recording a new album, and their music video. It includes a station ID. (37:04) Michael Zakes interviews Joe "King" Carrasco. They discuss touring, tear gas incident in Dallas, playing to large crowds, crowd surfing, the new album, and line-up changes. It includes a station ID. (47:18) Michael Zakes interviews Roddy Frame from Aztec Camera. They discuss how the band formed, the band's influences, breaking into the U.S. market, new American tour. (51:54) Martin Kemp of Spandau Ballet station ID. Speakers: Michael Zakes, Robbie Grey, Gary McDowell, Cy Cumin, Adam Woods, Jet Black, Graham "Suggs" McPherson, Mark Bedford, Joe "King" Currasco, Roddy Frame, Martin Kemp
Contents include: John Cage discusses his diet, travelling, his educational background, being a tour guide, his current work, following Arnold Schoenberg, using chance when composing, and his current chance techniques. Speaker: John Cage
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Frank Tittle about laser use in military defense systems. Speakers: Frank Tittle, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Jim Blackburn about toxic waste regulations. Speakers: Jim Blackburn, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Martin Weiner about the economic advantages of slow growth, like in Britain. Speakers: Martin Weiner, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Stephen Klineberg about why the family is changing. Speakers: Stephen Klineberg, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Patricia Reef about wind farming. Speakers: Patricia Reiff, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Chad Gordon about planning for the future's resources and carrying capacity. Speakers: Chad Gordon, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Chandler Davidson about minority voting rights and equal representation. Speakers: Chandler Davidson, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Bob O'Dell about building the space telescope. Speakers: Bob O'Dell, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Hally Beth Poindexter about staying fit at Rice and beyond. Speakers: Hally Beth Poindexter, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. John Guilmartin about charting NASA's past and present. Speakers: John Guilmartin, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Joe Austin about teacher training and quality. Speakers: Joe Austin, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: The audio begins with a promotional review of The Church of the SubGenius, a satirical cult and its "The Book of the SubGenius." What follows is an interview. The members discuss the new book, J.R. "Bob" Dobbs, church terminology, how to join the church, Devo connection, and the end of the world. Speakers: Ivan Stang
Contents include: Michael Zakes interviews members of The Call. Michael Been and Tom Ferrier discuss their album's artwork, song style, influences, producers, history of the band, and recording their new album. It includes a station ID. Speakers: Michael Been, Tom Ferrier, Michael Zakes
Contents include: Michael Zakes talks to Lene Lovich about "No Man's Land," inspiration, other projects, songwriting, earlier life, and her clothing choices. Speakers: Lene Lovich, Michael Zakes
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: (00:01) Ray Shea interviews members of The Alarm, Eddie Macdonald and Mike Peters, about touring in the U.S., their new EP, influences, and future plans. They do station IDs. (08:18) Todd Nix and Ray Shea interview members of Madness. Graham "Suggs" McPherson and Mark Bedford discuss the forming of the band, touring, recording a new album, and their music video. It includes a station ID. (14:52) Dave Collins interviews Roky Erickson about religion, his upcoming show, current band members, working with Stu Cook, and his upcoming album. Features music. (32:10) Michael Zakes interviews a member of Wire Train, Anders Runbald, about the band's history, comparisons to other bands, musical influences, college radio airplay, and the future of the band. He does a station ID. (43:39) Michael Zakes interviews Stuart Anderson of Big Country about their first U.S. tour, "The Crossing," history of the band, musical influences, the future of the band, and songwriting. He does a station ID. Speakers: Ray Shea, Eddie Macdonald, Mike Peters, Dave Collins, Roky Erickson, Michael Zakes, Anders Runbald, Stuart Anderson
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. John Margrave about the Houston Area Research Center. Speakers: John Margrave, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Werner Kelber about the origins of the Bible. Speakers: Werner Kelber, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: A KTRU DJ interviews Will Ackerman about how he started Windham Hill Records, finding new talent, the meaning behind the name of his company, Eric Satie, musical influences, and his new album. He records a station ID. Speakers: Will Ackerman
Contents include: On "Chicken Skin Music," Don Sanders plays music live in the studio. Speakers: Don Sanders, David-John Scribner
Contents include: Rawslyn Ruffin performing live in the studio. During her performance, there were sections with little to no audio. Those have been removed. Speaker: Rawslyn Ruffin
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Gerald Phillips about the search for the Big Band and the Fermilab. Speakers: Gerald Phillips, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Ken Kennedy about teaching computers to be expert advisors. Speakers: Ken Kennedy, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Mary McIntire about continuing education. Speakers: Mary McIntire, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Richard Stabell about changes in college admissions statistics. Speakers: Richard Stabell, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "Chicken Skin Music," Dianne McNicol performs and talks about visiting Texas, Australia in the late 1960s, and popularity of American music in other countries. Speakers: David John Scribner, Dianne McNicol
Contents include: Jim Fowler and another individual interview Leo Kottke at Rockefeller's. They discuss music theory, amps, his guitars, singing, other influences, touring, Mel Blanc, travel stories, and John Fahey. Speakers: Jim Fowler, Leo Kottke
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Baruch Brody about the ethics of Baby Doe regulations. Speakers: Scott Hochberg, Baruch Brody
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Charles Stewart about splitting DNA. Speakers: Charles Stewart, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. George Marcus about Margaret Mead and human development controversy. Speakers: George Marcus, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Phil Bedient about the West Texas drought. Speakers: Phil Bedient, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: (00:01) Michael Zakes interviews members of Sparks, Ron and Russell Mael, about their new album, their history, their band, and future plans. They do station IDs; (11:51) Interview with Peter Tork via the telephone about his new band, interest in the Monkees, no longer being a Monkee, and post-Monkees life. He does a station ID. (21:30) Tom Evans interviews Johnathan Richman about his new album, songwriting, musical influences, his guitar skills, Modern Lovers, Ted Hawkins, world music, his live shows. He does a station ID. (33:59) Station ID from Trey Cook [?] manager of The Volumatics. (34:10) Michael Zakes interviews Jim Brown from UB40 about their increased popularity in the U.S., "Labour of Love," and working with a major record company. He does a station ID. Speakers: Michael Zakes, Ron Mael, Russell Mael, Peter Tork, Jonathan Richman, Tom Evans, Jim Brown
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. George Frederickson about white supremacy and the legal system in South Africa. Speakers: George Frederickson, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. John Boles about differences in the southern U.S. Speakers: John Boles, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Roger Penrose about moving beyond Einstein's theories in mathematics. Speakers: Roger Penrose, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: (00:01) Sports review/preview; (02:19) Sid Richardson College food fight; (03:27) Food fight follow-up; (05:40) Food fight follow-up; (06:48) Student Association meeting, TexPIRG; (08:21) Sports review/preview; (16:05) Sports review/preview; (19:39) Coach Ray Alborn's resignation; (20:41) Coach Watson Brown hired; (22:34) Sports review/preview; (24:33) Student Association and Rice Program Council elections; (26:45) Results of Student Association and Rice Program Council elections; (28:51) Sports review/preview; (32:34) President Norman Hackerman announces retirement; (35:10) Campanile Editor election controversy; (37:00) Student Association actions during Campanile Editor election controversy; (38:46) Campus elections preview; (40:28) Campanile Editor statements from Kristin Merrigan and Pam Truzinski; (41:08) Campus election results; (42:03) Campanile election invalidated; (43:21) Beer Bike preview; (44:16) Sports review that abruptly ends. Speakers: Jonathan Sadow, Dave Collins, David Tuttle, Chuck Maienza, Kristin Merrigan, Pam Truzinski
Contents include: Michael Zakes interviews members of Mental As Anything Andrew "Greedy" Smith, Reg Mombassa, Martin Plaza,Peter O'Doherty, and Wayne DeLisle about how they met and formed the band, touring with Men at Work, songwriting, Elvis Costello, and influences. They do a station ID. Speakers: Andrew "Greedy Smith, Michael Zakes, Reg Mombassa, Martin Plaza, Wayne DeLisle, Peter O'Doherty
Contents include: Michael Zakes interview John Fahey at Fitzgerald's. They discuss influences, new albums, scoring films, touring, producing other artists, and Townes Van Zandt. There is a station ID. Speakers: John Fahey, Michael Zakes
Contents include: Michael Zakes and an another interview speak with Richard Thompson about his time with Fairport Convention, his show at Rockefeller's, working with T. Bone Burnett, working on "Shoot Out the Lights," recent collaborations, and shift away from folk. This was recorded over another recording. There was less than a minute of the old recording. We deleted it. Speakers: Richard Thompson, Michael Zakes
Contents include: On "Chicken Skin Music," The Banded Geckos perform. Speakers: Tim Taylor, Evelyne Taylor, Russell Fory, Gary Young, David John Scribner
Contents include: On "Chicken Skin Music," Bill Cade performs. Speakers: Bill Cade, David John Scribner
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Gaston Rimlinger about lower rising health care costs. Speakers: Gaston Rimlinger, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Luise White about prostitution throughout history. Speakers: Luise White, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Patricia Seed about matriarchal cultures. Speakers: Patricia Seed, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Jackie Hudson about women's performance in male dominated work fields. Speakers: Jackie Hudson, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Richard Stoll about international tensions between Russia and the U.S. Speakers: Richard Stoll, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: Comedy show, "Buffoons for Non-Majors," episode "Daytime TV."
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Elizabeth Long about the new roles for women in society. Speakers: Elizabeth Long, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "Chicken Skin Music," David John Scribner talks to Bob Eike about the blues, his guitar, touring, and potential rise in popularity of folk music. Speakers: David John Scribner, Bob Eike
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Allen Matusow about the limited successes of the 1960s liberal reform movements. Speakers: Allen Matusow, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Coach Watson Brown about his plans for improving the Rice Owls Football program. Speakers: Watson Brown, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. David Brady about the upcoming presidential nomination process. Speakers: David Brady, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Walter Isle about George Orwell's "1984" and how it applies to today. Speakers: Walter Isle, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "Chicken Skin Music," Preston Reed plays music live in the studio from fall 1983. Speakers: Preston Reed, David John Scribner
Contents include: Michael Zakes interviews Roddy Frame of Aztec Camera about how the band started, its current make-up, their name, influences, acoustic scene, producers, Steve Lillywhite, and upcoming projects. He does a station ID. Speakers: Roddy Frame, Michael Zakes
Contents include: Mike Richmond and Mark Cline of Love Tractor doing station IDs. Speakers: Mike Richmond, Mark Cline
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Don Huddle about the costs of undocumented immigration. Speakers: Don Huddle, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Duane Windsor about the future of the airline industry. Speakers: Duane Windsor, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. John A. S. Adams about nuclear disposal. Speakers: John A. S. Adams, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Mary Winkler about the Julian Huxley papers and UNESCO. Speakers: Mary Winkler, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Paul Cloutier about building space stations. Speakers: Paul Cloutier, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Stephen Klineberg about public skepticism of U.S. nuclear policy. Speakers: Stephen Klineberg, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Larry Temkin about nuclear ethics. Speakers: Larry Temkin, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Phillip Bell about the costs of the arms race. Speakers: Phillip Bell, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Richard Stoll about reaching strategic stability. Speakers: Richard Stoll, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Thomas Haskell about the issues with relying on experts. Speakers: Thomas Haskell, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: (00:01) Ray Shea interviews Dave Sharp of The Alarm about their U.S. tours, fire marshals, power of music, writing crusade anthems, issues in the music industry, shifting away from crusade anthems, and music in England. He does a station ID. (29:41) Michael Zakes interviews John Griffith from Red Rockers about their new album, widening distribution, upcoming tour, musical influences, and new music. He does a station ID. (35:00) Michael Zakes interviews Michael Lachowski, Curtis Crowe, Vanessa Briscoe Hay, and Randall Bewley of Pylon about their new album and their future plans. They do station IDs. Speakers: Dave Sharp, Ray Shea, Michael Zakes, John Griffith, Michael Lachowski, Curtis Crowe, Vanessa Briscoe Hay, Randall Bewley
Contents include: Speaking at the Rice Associates Dinner, author James Michener discusses Texas, more specifically the arts, higher education, business, politics, public education, sports, and Houston. Speaker: James Michener
Contents include: On "Chicken Skin Music," Banded Geckos perform live. Speakers: Tim Taylor, Evelyne Taylor, David-John Scribner
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Ewa Thompson about the new Russian leader. Speakers: Ewa Thompson, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Janice Rubin about her photography in the Himalayas and China. Speakers: Janice Rubin, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Ken Laughery about engineering psychology and workplace accidents. Speakers: Ken Laughery, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Richard Smith about China's Qing Dynasty. Speakers: Richard Smith, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Stanley Riser about fair allocation of health care. Speakers: Stanley Riser, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Julie Taylor about Argentina political landscape. Speakers: Julie Taylor, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Craig Anderson about crime during the summer. Speakers: Craig Anderson, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Ken Dye about being on the Olympic Band. Speakers: Ken Dye, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Richard Casey about creationism and teaching science. Speakers: Richard Casey, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "Chicken Skin Music," David-John Scribner interviews Frummox members Steven Fromholz and Dan McCrimmon discuss their album "Here to There," playing in Houston, producers, other albums, recording studios, the folk music, and radio airplay. Speakers: David John Scribner, Steven Fromholz, Dan McCrimmon
Contents include: (00:01) On "Film Forum," Lisa Goldman discusses "The World of Tomorrow," "Los Dos Mundos de Angelita," and "Autumn Sonata." She also lists art films at theatres in the area. (15:14) On "Film Forum," Lisa Goldman discusses "The Eyes, the Mouth," James Dean double feature, "Liquid Sky," "The Hunger," and "The World of Gilbert and George." She also lists art films at theatres in the area. Recording ends abruptly. Speaker: Lisa Goldman
Contents include: On "Film Forum," Lisa Goldman discusses the films "The World of Gilbert and George," "Canale Grande," "Die Riese," "HIDEO, It's Me Mama," "The Woman's Room," and "Sharkey's Day." She also lists art films at theatres in the area. We deleted extraneous audio at the beginning of the recording. Speaker: Lisa Goldman
Contents include: On "To the Point," Scott Hochberg talks to Dr. Thomas Mackey about law and prostitution. Speakers: Thomas Mackey, Scott Hochberg
Contents include: On "Chicken Skin Music," Preston Reed plays music and talks about his guitar, influences. Speakers: Preston Reed, David John Scribner
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: The Conspiracy play live at Willy's Pub. Speakers: Stan Barber
Contents include: Tom Russell performing live at Anderson Fair Retail Restaurant, Houston, Texas. Nanci Griffith sings harmonies. Speakers: Nanci Griffith, Tom Russell
Contents include: On "Chicken Skin Music," Four Bricks Out of Hadrian's Wall perform. Speakers: Gary Coover, Kelly Loftus, Bill Galbraith, Vance Whelply, David John Scribner
Contents include: On "Chicken Skin Music," Mike Mandrell perfoms. Speakers: Mike Mandrell, David John Scribner
Contents include: (00:01) Ken Dye on directing the Olympic Band and his upcoming year with the Marching Owl Band; (01:51) Presidential Search Committee search report; (02:56) Amadeus movie review; (05:24) Rice Players "Working" review; (07:14) Space Shuttle Challenger 1984-10-05; (08:21) Editorial on Presidential Debate in Kansas City; (12:00) Sports review/preview; (14:12) Sports review/preview; (15:53) Sports review/preview; (16:37) Sports review/preview; (17:08) Congressional district 25 candidates; (19:40) Editorial on Presidential Election, pro Walter Mondale; (21:06) Editorial on Presidential Election, pro Ronald Reagan; (22:56) Sports review/preview; (23:20) KTRU election poll results; (26:11) Presidential election results; (28:25) Pres. Ronald Reagan's victory speech; (30:50) Vice President George H. W. Bush's victory speech; (33:39) Election results; (34:20) Mondale headquarters report and other election news; (35:31) Sen. Phil Graham's Republican election party; (36:41) Sen. Phil Graham's election results; (37:32) Lloyd Doggett headquarters report; (38:13) Phil Graham interview [?]; (39:18) District 25 Rep. Michael A. Andrews interview; (45:01) Interview with Bob Alexander from the Lloyd Doggett campaign. Speakers: Ken Dye, Margie Bennett, Henry De La Garza, Irv Cutter, Karl Sowa, Dave Hardy, Arthur Rabeau, David Tuttle, David Rogers, Ronald Reagan, George H. W. Bush, Mark Nash, Mark Palmer, Michael A. Andrews, Bob Alexander
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Mark Scheid about the roles of the student athlete, part 2. Speakers: Mark Scheid, Roger Gray
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Mark Scheid about competitive running. Speakers: Mark Scheid, Roger Gray
Contents include: On "Chicken Skin Music," Mike Mandrell and John Campbell perform. Speakers: Mike Mandrell, John Campbell, David John Scribner
Contents include: Ray Isle and David-John Scribner interview Peter Buck of R.E.M. They discuss music in Georgia, musical influences, composing, songwriting, and their show at Numbers. Recording ends abruptly. Speakers: Peter Buck, Ray Isle, David-John Scribner
Contents include: Mike Scott interviews Jimmy Raycraft and Dickie Malone about their current music and previous bands. Speakers: Jimmy Raycraft, Dickie Malone, Mike Scott
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. Elizabeth Long about physical and sexual abuse within families. Speakers: Elizabeth Long, Roger Gray
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. Francis Loewenheim about presidential debates and how they inform the public. Speakers: Francis Loewenheim, Roger Gray
Contents include: Delete beginning of dead air. John Irving describing and reading from "The Cider House Rules" at the Grand Hall at the Rice Memorial Center. Speakers: John Irving
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. Gilbert Cuthbertson about the Texas U.S. Senate race between Lloyd Doggett and Lindsey Graham. Speakers: Gilbert Cuthbertson, Roger Gray
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. Niels Nielsen about the influence of religion on politics. Speakers: Niels Nielsen, Roger Gray
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. Francis Loewenheim about U.S. and Russian negotiations and disarmament. Speakers: Francis Loewenheim, Roger Gray
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. Chandler Davidson about political party drift. Speakers: Chandler Davidson, Roger Gray
Contents include: (00:01) Rep. Michael A. Andrews election report; (00:41) Lloyd Doggett concession report; (01:47) Dr. Falk [?] on being in Haiti, blankets for Haiti; (08:06) Sports review/preview. Speakers: Henry De La Garza, Arthur Rabeau
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. Stephen Klineberg about the Houston Survey, part 1. Speakers: Stephen Klineberg, Roger Gray
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. Stephen Klineberg about the Houston Survey, part 2. Speakers: Stephen Klineberg, Roger Gray
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. Briance Mascarenhas about profits in the oil industry during the boom. Speakers: Briance Mascarenhas, Roger Gray
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. Niels Nielsen about the influence of religion in politics. Speakers: Niels Nielsen, Roger Gray
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. Ewa Thompson on Humanities education, part 1. Speakers: Ewa Thompson, Roger Gray
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. Ewa Thompson on Humanities education, part 2. Speakers: Ewa Thompson, Roger Gray
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. C. R. O'Dell about Halley's Comet. Speakers: C. R. O'Dell, Roger Gray
Contents include: Stan Barber interviews Gary McDowell about touring Texas and new music. McDowell does a station ID. Speakers: Gary McDowell, Stan Barber
Contents include: A KTRU DJ interviews Rob Norris of The Bongos about their influences, working with Richard Gottehrer, "Drums Along the Hudson," solo records, Mitch Easter, touring, and working with RCA. They do a station ID. Speakers: Rob Norris, Michael Zakes, Richard Barone, James Mastro
Contents include: Charlie Pickett and The Eggs live, location unknown. Speakers: Charlie Pickett, Dave Froshnider, John Galway, John Salton
Contents include: (00:01) Personality of the Week: Trevor Baxter; (13:40) Student Association president elections and speeches; (33:40) Personality of the Week: George Rupp appointed university president; (44:14) Houston Grand Opera's "The Magic Flute" review. Speakers: Trevor Baxter, Jana Sanchez, Darryl Burke, Barry Nicholson, Tracy Winn, Neal Quimby, George Rupp, Irv Cutter
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. John Adams about the declining price of oil. Speakers: John Adams, Roger Gray
Contents include: The Project 91.7 Affirmative Action Debate features moderator David Phillips. On the for side, George Greanias and Bill Oliver are matched against John Goodner and Albert Walling. This debate took place a few days before a Houston referendum on adding the phrase "sexual orientation" to a non-discrimination ordinance. Stan Barber, Jeff Mathews and Mike Gladu produced the debate. Speakers: David Phillips, George Greanias, Bill Oliver, John Goodner, Albert Walling
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. Stephen Klineberg about the Houston Survey results based on age. Speakers: Stephen Klineberg, Roger Gray
Contents include: William F. Buckley, Jr. speaks at the Grand Hall in the Rice Memorial Center as part of the Rice Institute for Policy Analysis dinner. He discusses temperament of the South, his critique of Rev. Jesse Jackson's assessment of Detroit, supply side economics, and discrimination. Speakers: William F. Buckley, Jr., Joseph Cooper
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. Stephen Klineberg about the Houston Survey results based on gender. Speakers: Stephen Klineberg, Roger Gray
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. John Boles about the Journal of Southern History and the South. Speakers: John Boles, Roger Gray
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. John Adams about the theory of nuclear winter. Speakers: John Adams, Roger Gray
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. Julia Ching about the history of religion in China. Speakers: Julia Ching, Roger Gray
Contents include: Preston Reed plays live at Willy's Pub.
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. Julia Ching about the history of religion in China. Speakers: Julia Ching, Roger Gray
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. John Guilmartin about U.S. and Russian arms balance. Speakers: John Guilmartin, Roger Gray
Contents include: On "The S and M Show," a DJ talks to poet John Giorno about Patti Smith, dial-a-poem, poetry albums, Laurie Anderson, finances, living in New York, and touring. Speaker: John Giorno
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. John Guilmartin about the past and future of the space shuttle. Speakers: John Guilmartin, Roger Gray
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Ibrahim Kamalud Din about history of Islam in the U.S. Speakers: Ibrahim Kamalud Din, Roger Gray
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Ibrahim Kamalud Din about history of Islam in the U.S. Speakers: Ibrahim Kamalud Din, Roger Gray
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. Francis Loewenheim about the Yalta Conference. Speakers: Francis Loewenheim, Roger Gray
Contents include: Jonathan Sadow and Mike Gladu provide play-by-play for the 1985 Beer Bike women's and men's races. Speakers: Jonathan Sadow, Mike Gladu
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. Francis Loewenheim about Mikhaeil Gorbachev. Speakers: Francis Loewenheim, Roger Gray
Contents include: On "No One Expects," Jonathan Sadow's radio play "Semi-Cute" produced by Stan Barber. Speakers: Susan Buchanan, Cindy Smith, John Knapp, Stan Barber, George Webb, Patrick Dyson
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. Don Benjamin about the Bible. Speakers: Don Benjamin, Roger Gray
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. Don Benjamin about the Bible. Speakers: Don Benjamin, Roger Gray
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. Stephen Klineberg about the Houston Survey and how it compares to other major cities. Speakers: Stephen Klineberg, Roger Gray
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. Stephen Klineberg about the Houston Survey, Houston politics, and the sexual orientation referendum. Speakers: Stephen Klineberg, Roger Gray
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. Werner Kelber about the biblical Gospels. Speakers: Werner Kelber, Roger Gray
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. Werner Kelber about the biblical Gospels. Speakers: Werner Kelber, Roger Gray
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. Chandler Davidson about the No Pass No Play rule. Speakers: Chandler Davidson, Roger Gray
Contents include: The band the Bongos do a station ID. Speakers: Richard Barone, Rob Norris, Frank Giannini, James Mastro
Contents include: Jerry Jeff Walker does five PSAs on school bus safety for the Texas State Department of Highways and Public Transportation. Speaker: Jerry Jeff Walker
Contents include: Kate Bush does a station ID. Speaker: Kate Bush
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. Frank Tittle about Pres. Ronald Reagan's Star Wars. Speakers: Frank Tittle, Roger Gray
Contents include: On "To the Point," Roger Gray talks to Dr. Jean Claude de Bremaecker about the field of Geology and continental drift. Speakers: Jean Claude de Bremaecker, Roger Gray
Contents include: Phil Calvin and Stu Gretchen talks to Jonathan Richman about his fan club, his concerts, touring, favorite music, writing songs for children, Native American politics. We deleted sections of dead air. Audio has issues. Speakers: Phil Calvin, Stu Gretchen, Jonathan Richman
Contents include: Promos for the radio show "University of the Damned."
Contents include: Delete beginning. On "Chicken Skin Music," (00:01) Janice Rubin performs Yiddish folk music with Barry Roberts on guitar; (42:51) Mike Mandrell plays acoustic guitar; (01:06:21) Banded Geckos play. Speakers: Evelyne Taylor, Tim Taylor, David John Scribner, Janice Rubin, Barry Roberts, Mike Mandrell, John McNath
Contents include: KTRU news reporters and Thresher writers interview soon-to-be inaugurated George Rupp about Fondren Library, creating connections between Rice and Houston, building a medical or law school, religion on campus, increasing Rice's recognition outside the southwest region, and improving food service. We deleted outtakes from another radio program. Speakers: Stan Barber, George Rupp, Henry De La Garza, Mark Nash, David Frezenheim, Jana Sanchez, Eric Salituro, David Friesenhahn
Contents include: On "Chicken Skin Music," (00:01) Bill Cade performs live; (33:48) Don Sanders performs live. Speakers: Don Sanders, Bill Cade, David John Scribner
Contents include: KTRU Benefit held in the Grand Hall of the Rice Memorial Center. Performers: (00:01) The Bat Surfers; (33:52) The Footnotes; (01:47:48) Fab Motion. Speakers: Todd Leger, Toby Blunt
Contents include: On "Rice Radio Journal," Jana Sanchez talks to Hugh Brantley about the U.S.'s support of terrorist forces in Nicaragua, history of U.S. involvement in Nicaragua, rule under Anastasio Somoza Debayle vs. Sandinistas, Iran-contra Affair, Soviet influence, and trade. Speakers: Hugh Brantley, Jana Sanchez
Contents include: Alex Malinin interviews members of Fab Motion, Todd Leger, Toby Blunt, Kim Hickman, and Clint Davidson about their music influences, live performances, press, and advice to other bands. Includes a station ID. Speakers: Todd Leger, Toby Blunt, Kim Hickman, Clint Davidson, Alex Malinin
Contents include: (00:01) True Believers; (14:08) The Windows; (29:22) Fab Motion. This program features short interviews, history on the bands, and music. Speakers: Alejandro Escovedo, Javier, Escovedo, Jon Dee Graham, Denny DeGorio, Kevin Foley, Tom Harvey, Frank Brothers, David Highfill, Toby Blunt, Todd Leger, Kim Hickman, Clint Davidson, Alex Malinin
Contents include: A KTRU DJ interviews students, Dan Price, Carol Drummond, and Tom Perrault, running for the position of Student Association President. Speakers: Dan Price, Carol Drummond, Tom Perrault
Contents include: (00:01) Members of The Wolves, Larry Selman and Mike Swann discuss how the band formed, recording, their families, and songwriting; (19:48) Members of Living Pieces, Noel Flatt, Karen Bice, and Peter Freimanis discuss songwriting, their music video, the band's sound, keyboards, and the future of the band. Speakers: Larry Selman, Mike Swann, Noel Flatt, Karen Bice, Peter Freimanis
Contents include: Alex Malinin interviews members of Frayed Minks, Robert Estep and Liz Manklin about their music experience, songwriting, recording music, Estep's guitar skills and playing, musical influences, favorite albums, the meaning behind certain songs, and Public News. Speakers: Robert Estep, Liz Manklin, Toby Blunt
Contents include: (00:01) Living Pieces; (24:13) The Banks; (37:43) The Wolves; (57:43) Frayed Minks; This program features short interviews, history on the bands, and music. Speakers: Robert Estep, Liz Manklin, Toby Blunt, Larry Selman, Mike Swann, Noel Flatt, Karen Bice, Peter Freimanis, Alvin Mullins, Robert Gibbons, Mike Bergeron, Hap Logan, Stu Cannon, Alex Malinin
Contents include: In the Rice Memorial Center's Grand Hall, William F. Buckley, Jr. and John Kenneth Galbraith debate. Ron Stone acts as a moderator and Edward Williams, Allen Matusow, and Alan Grob are panelists. The debaters discuss Pres. Ronald Reagan's economic policy. Speakers: William F. Buckley, John Kenneth Galbraith, Ron Stone, Allen Matusow, Alan Grob, Mike Gladu, Edward Williams
Contents include: Rice Jazz Ensemble performs in the Grand Hall of the Rice Memorial Center. Speakers: Larry Slezak, Ken Richardson, Robert Harnden, Julie Mayes, Philip Hall, Syd Polk, Eric Furst, Brian Waldecker, Jason Brown, Stephen Carl, Philip Hall, Matt McCarthy, Chris Madland
Contents include: Jonathan Sadow and Lyn Michaels call a Rice Owls baseball game against the University of Texas. The final score was Rice 3, University of Texas 10. We deleted radio music at the end of the recording. Speakers: Jonathan Sadow, Lyn Michaels
Contents include: Jonathan Sadow and Bud Thomas call a Rice Owls baseball game against University of Houston. The final score was Rice 0, University of Houston 7. We deleted radio music at the end of the recording. Speakers: Jonathan Sadow, Bud Thomas
Contents include: A KTRU DJ interviews Green on Red members, Chris Cacavas and Chuck Prophet about Houston places, their band name, touring, and recording. Speakers: Chris Cacavas, Chuck Prophet
Contents include: Wilma plays "Pornography Lies," "Georgie Girl," and another song. Speakers: K.D. Davis, Kris Panebianco, Louise Diedrich, Yvette Kay
Contents include: Members of The Pandoras do a station ID. Speakers: Paula Pierce, Melanie Vammen, Kim Shattuck, Karen Blankfeld
Contents include: On "S and M," a KTRU DJ talks to the On Waugh Gallery owners/employees about the gallery, raising money, upcoming silent auction, large parties, and Saltwater Cats. Speakers: Karen Poltarek, Loretta Cooper, Ted Brown
Contents include: Alex Malinin talks about the band The Footnotes and includes live music. Recording ends abruptly. Speakers: Rick Eakens, Alex Malinin, Allan Gill
Contents include: Jonathan Sadow and Lyn Michaels do play-by-play for the Rice women's basketball game vs. Baylor. Recording ends abruptly. Speakers: Jonathan Sadow, Lyn Michaels
Contents include: Marty Willson-Piper of The Church does a station ID. Speaker: Marty Willson-Piper
Contents include: John Flansburgh and John Linnell of the They Might Be Giants do a station ID. Speakers: John Flansburgh, John Linnell
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: The Kilkenny Cats play live at Willy's Pub. Speakers: Sean O'Brien, Allen Wagner, Clifton Hill, Keith Landers, Tom Cheek
Contents include: Sarah Keller interviews Flaming Lips member Wayne Coyne and their manager Michele Vlasimsky about promotions, favorite bands, being a local band, touring, record funding, charts, mass mailing, the band's history, making their first music videos, songwriting, perceptions by Oklahomans, out of state perceptions of being an Oklahoma rock band, and living and playing in economically depressed Oklahoma. Speakers: Wayne Coyne, Michele Vlasimsky, and Sarah Keller
Contents include: DJs perform various promos for T-shirts and KTRU Movie Madness. Speaker: Stan Barber
Contents include: On "S and M," a KTRU DJ talks to members of the Elegant Doormats about their Houston band and playing in Austin. Speakers: Scott Telles, Leigh Newsom, John Foxworth
Contents include: (00:01) Mike Mandrell plays live and talks about his work. (31:02) The Banded Geckos play live and talk about their work. Speakers: Mike Mandrell, Evelyne Taylor, Tim Taylor, David John Scribner
Contents include: (00:01) Banded Geckos live, location unknown. (11:34) Dr. T and the Tuk Tones live. (28:28) Four Bricks Out of Hadrian's Wall live. Speakers: Evelyne Taylor, Tim Taylor, Gary Coover, Kelley Loftus, Bill Galbraith, Vance Whelply
Contents include: Herschel Berry and the Natives plays live at Willy's Pub. Speakers: Herschel Berry, Wylie Hudgins, Kenn Cordray, Karl Logan
Contents include: Culturcide play live and play around in the studio. We deleted comedy skits not created by KTRU. Speakers: Perry Webb, Dan Workman, Raif Armin
Contents include: For the Rice Institute for Policy Analysis, Pres. Jimmy Carter speaks at the Grand Hall in the Rice Memorial Center. In a speech entitled, "Policy and Management in the White House," Pres. Carter talks about how he focused on his goals during his time as president. Speakers: Joe Cooper, Jimmy Carter, Charles Duncan
Contents include: On "Chicken Skin Music," Preston Reed plays live and talks about his guitars and "The Road Less Traveled." Speakers: Preston Reed, David John Scribner
Contents include: Preston Reed live at Willy's Pub. Speaker: Preston Reed
Contents include: On "Chicken Skin Music," Sean Walters plays live and talks about his background. Speakers: Sean Walters, David John Scribner
Contents include: Howard Henry Baker, Jr. addresses the University Associates dinner. He talks about his new position as Chief of Staff, his political career in Washington, Pres. Ronald Reagan's convictions, decreasing nuclear arms, job growth, redefining the presidential role, fiscal policy, highway bill, and Iran-Contra affair. Speakers: Howard Henry Baker, Jr., J. Evans Atwell
Contents include: (00:01) Code Red live (54:54) Mark Yorloff live (01:38:31) XOX live. Speakers: Mark Yorloff, Robin Beachan, Leslie Carol, John Douglas
Contents include: (00:01) Fab Motion live (40:47) Marshall Fields live (01:27:58) Trout Fishing in America live. Speakers: Todd Leger, Toby Blunt, Kim Hickman, Clint Davidson, Ezra Idlet, Keith Grimwood
Contents include: Danny Bonaduce Soul Explosion performs live, location unknown. After the show, there are interviews with the crowd. Speakers: Austin Thomerson
Contents include: Schlong Weasel performs live, location unknown. After the show, there are interviews with the crowd. Speakers: Ramon Medina, Kyle Phillips, John Cramer
Contents include: A KTRU DJ talks to members of The Outnumbered about their drummers, Homestead Records, fanzines, Willie Wells's studio, Champaign-Urbana, "Boy on a Roof," their albums, feminist stance, songwriters singing their own songs, songwriting, genre, influences, playing with well-known bands, touring, and Peoria. They do a station ID. Speakers: Jon Ginoli, Junno Peltz, Paul Budin
Contents include: A KTRU DJ interviews Steve Jones, former Sex Pistols member, about "Mercy," touring, future plans, moving to L.A., drug addiction, Rock Against Drugs, punk scene, "Quadrophenia, Iggy Pop, David Bowie, musical influences, ugliest man in rock. He does a station ID. Speakers: Steve Jones
Contents include: Circus Glass play live at Rockefeller's for the New Music Seminar Benefit. Speakers: Chad Condon
Contents include: United Front play live at Rockefeller's for the New Music Seminar Benefit.
Contents include: The Banks play live at Rockefeller's for the New Music Seminar Benefit. Speakers: Robert Gibbons, Michael Bergeron, Carshall Heimbuch, Stew Cannon
Contents include: The Reign play live at Rockefeller's for the New Music Seminar Benefit. Speakers: Gerard Dutka, Ransom Buller, Erik Schman, Gino Guerrero
Contents include: Special Forces play live at Rockefeller's for the New Music Seminar Benefit.
Contents include: Dresden 45, also known as D45, play live at Rockefeller's for the New Music Seminar Benefit. Speakers: Brumby Boylston, Patrick Godbey, Uncle Charlie Hardwick, Oscar Gray, Scott Daniels
Contents include: Cinco Dudes play live at Rockefeller's for the New Music Seminar Benefit. Speakers: Jon Marino, Rick Saenz, Keith Nickerson, Doug Jones, Chuck Roe
Contents include: Party Owls play live at Rockefeller's for the New Music Seminar Benefit. Speakers: Andy Wright, J.R. Delgado, Mark Lockridge, Glen Bo, Rob Glob Rice
Contents include: On "S and M," Mandy Mercier on her fiddle work with Ray Wylie Hubbard,rock music, and SXSW. We deleted radio music. Speakers: Jim Webb, Mandy Mercier, Dino Lee
Contents include: On "S and M," Dino Lee, the King of White Trash, talks about the movie "Blood Diner," Marlon Brando, Herschell Gordon Lewis, his early life, James Bond movies, Elvis, and Europe. We deleted radio music. Speaker: Dino Lee
Contents include: Sarah Keller and Bruce Mast talk to members of Defenestration, Todd Walker, Tyson Meade, Joe Kollman, Chris Ward, and Clark Walker, about their new album "Dali Does Windows," working with Relativity, touring, band history, the name of the band, playing in Oklahoma, college, songwriting, and commercial radio. Speakers: Sarah Keller, Bruce Mast, Todd Walker, Tyson Meade, Joe Kollman, Christ Ward, Clark Walker
Contents include: KTRU DJs talk to Greg Roberts from Big Audio Dynamite about their tour with the Junkyard Band, "1999," Joe Strummer, synthesizers, commercialism, and Texas. Speakers: Greg Roberts
Contents include: An episode of "Stupid People's Court" a comedy show spoofing "The People's Court."
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: (00:01) Leslie Singer talks to members of Culture about the band's history, their new single "Money Girl," and playing at Sunsplash; (03:50) Leslie Singer talks to Daddy U-Roy about his DJ style, how he started, his early songs, taking a break, RAS Records, future projects. He does a station ID; (18:50) Leslie Singer talks to David Hinds of Steel Pulse about their early history, issues with their culture, linked with the British punk scene, changing message, their new album, his hair, and touring. He does a station ID. Speakers: Joseph Hill, Albert Walker, Ewart Beckford, U-Roy, David Hinds
Contents include: (00:01) A KTRU DJ talks to members of the Killer Bees, Malcolm Welbourne and Michael Johnson, about playing at Sunsplash '87, and dub music. They do a station ID at the beginning of the interview. (01:58) Leslie Singer interviews Pato Banton and Tippa Irie about their set, Sunsplash, future plans, upcoming albums, and touring. They do a station ID. There is also music from their set. Speakers: Malcolm Welbourne, Michael Johnson, Leslie Singer, Pato Banton, Tipa Irie
Contents include: (00:01) Unknown performer speaking; (00:18) Fitzroy "Bunny" Simpson from The Mighty Diamonds does a station ID. (00:45) Aston "Family Man" Barrett from The Wailers Band does a station ID. (01:24) Interview with Aston "Family Man" Barrett recording and replacing Carlton Barrett. Speakers: Fitzroy "Bunny" Simpson, Aston "Family Man" Barrett, Leslie Singer
Contents include: Fab Motion live at Willy's Pub. Speakers: Todd Leger, Toby Blunt, Kim Hickman, Clint Davidson
Contents include: Mulberry Jane live at Willy's Pub opening for Fab Motion. Speakers: Steve McCarthy, Brady Harris, Tom Callins
Contents include: Cinco Dudes play live at Willy's Pub. Speakers: Jon Marino, Rick Saenez, Keith Nickerson, Doug Jones, Chuck Roe
Contents include: On "Chicken Skin Music," John Gorka plays live and talks about his new album. Speakers: John Gorka, David John Scribner
Contents include: A KTRU DJ talks to Carlene Davis and Tommy Cowan about growing up, motivations, Rastafarians, racism, misconceptions, Steel Pulse, African identity, marketing, Bob Marley, songwriting, Jimmy Cliff, family and one love. Speakers: Carlene Davis, Tommy Cowan
Contents include: A KTRU DJ talks to George Hamilton V of Hege V about how the band started, the Hearse of Tears tour, country rock genre, music inspiration, songwriting, having a famous father, the Allman brothers, being from the southern U.S., country music, and influences. Speaker: George Hamilton V
Contents include: Studio recording of Manic Pop Thrill's "Why Bother?". Sent to KTRU for radio play purposes. Speakers: Mike Belile, David Fausser, Darin Murphy
Contents include: Shepherd School of Music Percussion Professor Richard Brown talks about percussion ensemble, his work history, teaching at the Shepherd School of Music, and Da Camera Society. Speakers: Richard Brown
Contents include: Kevin Hunter and Jeff Trott of Wire Train do a series of Christmas-themed station IDs. Speakers: Kevin Hunter, Jeff Trott
Contents include: Primordial Soup live at The Axiom.
Contents include: Promos for the upcoming Beer Bike races. Speakers: David Tuttle
Contents include: Four with Larry Slezak live at Willy's Pub. Speakers: Larry Slezak, Ken Richardson, Phillip Hall, Billy Murry, David Murray
Contents include: Music from the Houston bands Jesus Penis and Monster Zero live, location unknown. Speakers: Jim Leggett, John Kennedy, Keith King, Alex Sutton, Rich Tapia, Stuart Hall
Contents include: Roger Miller live at The Axiom. Speaker: Roger Miler
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: A KTRU DJ talks to Pato Banton about "Visions of the World," English Beat, Steel Pulse, touring, future plans, I.R.S. label, professionalizing reggae. He does a station ID. Speaker: Pato Banton
Contents include: A KTRU DJ talks to Edi Fitzroy about Bob Marley, how he started, staying busy, superiority, America, marijuana, religion, race, politics, and his upcoming projects. Speakers: Edi Fitzroy
Contents include: Studio recording of The Saltwater Cats's "Attack of the Bearded Clam." Sent to KTRU for radio play purposes. Speakers: Walter Suhr, Johnny Fix, Louis Baldovin
Contents include: Play-by-play of the Rice Owls Women's Basketball game vs. University of Texas. The final score is Rice 65, UT 92. Speaker: Bud Thomas
Contents include: On "Up in the Air," Stan Barber and Eric Davis talk to members of the Houston Anti-Apartheid Team (City-A), Lucie Cashore [?], Lisa Villiers [?], and Koy Severino about the group, its causes, upcoming concert, giving money to the African National Conference, Africa Fund, Amnest International, previous events, political stances, personal reasons for focusing on apartheid, and future events. Speakers: Stan Barber, Eric Davis, Koy Severino
Contents include: The Bat Surfers play live at the Lovett College Casino Party. Speakers: Jeff Byers, Dennis Ogburn, Ethan Brown, Evan Will, Lance Benedict
Contents include: Bay of Pigs live, location unknown.
Contents include: On "Chicken Skin Music," Hugh Moffatt plays live and talks about recording, touring, becoming a songwriter, songwriting, and taste. He also does a station ID. Speakers: Hugh Moffatt, David-John Scribner
Contents include: New Day live, location unknown.
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: A KTRU DJ talks to Roger Manning of Joe Folk and the Soho Valley Boys about the new album, "Missile Foundation," anti-folk scene, issues with the police, and playing on the street. Recording ends abruptly. Speaker: Roger Manning
Contents include: E. Coli live at the Axiom.
Contents include: H. Ross Perot speech in Grand Hall of the Rice Memorial Center. He talks about how students should lead change in the declining U.S. The first part of the speech has been lost. This is the second part. Towards the beginning, the recording is interrupted by a sound test. We have removed the interruption. Speaker: H. Ross Perot
Contents include: A KTRU DJ talk to members of Poi Dog Pondering about their tour, their new album, their origins, and reviews. They play live. Speakers: Frank Orrall, Dave Max Crawford, Susan Voelz, Ted Cho, Adam Sulton, John Nelson
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: A comedy group called The Writer Guys performs. Recorded at Jones Hall, University of St. Thomas, Houston. Speakers: Chris Loudermilk, Robert Cooper
Contents include: John Stockwell presents "The Praetorian Guard: The War in the Gulf and America's New Role in the World Order." He talks about ulterior U.S. government motivations for various wars. This is the second half of his speech. We do not have the first half. Speaker: John Stockwell
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: A KTRU DJ interview Cory West and Michael Meyers members of the club Gay and Lesbians of Rice (GALOR) about gay issues at Rice, the club, coming out in college, religion, and upcoming club plans. Speakers: Cory West, Michael Meyers
Contents include: (00:01) Duck and Cover ad; (00:47) Scoop o' Jesus Ice Cream; (02:31) Satirical Campus Crime Statistics; (05:38) Bored DJs; (08:05) Requesters - "Ballad of KTRU"; (10:49) Gut Logic - "Feed"; (13:37) Gut Logic - "Warsaw; (16:59) Jonathan Richman station ID; (17:25) Chris Frantz of the Tom Tom Club station ID; (18:16) Mark Kingsmill of Hoodoo Gurus station ID; (18:31) Jake Johannsen station ID; (18:46) Non Dairy Creamers - "Rock Potato"; (20:59) Glass Eye - "Shoot out the Lights"; (28:21) Party Owls - "Spray Coat"; (30:13) Party Owls - "Texas Pride"; (32:39) Culturcide - "Consider Museums as Concentration Camps"; (36:21) Pain Teens - "Satan Is My Father"; (39:58) Fab Motion - "Invincible"; (43:36) Elevator Up - "Change the Topic"; (45:59) Peglegasus - "Daycare Dynamo"; (49:58) X's for Eyes - "X's for Eyes"; (53:03) Twang Twang Shock-a-Boom - "Fishsticks". Speakers: H. K. Kahng, Chad Shaw, Kyle Bruckmann, Jonathan Richman, Chris Frantz, Mark Kingsmill, Jake Johannsen, Kent Colwell, Wayne Bishop, Paul Spare, Kathy McCarty, Brian Beattle, Scott Marcus, Stella Weir, Andy Wright, J.R. Delgado, Mark Lockridge, Glen Bo, Rob Glob Rice, Perry Webb, Dan Workman, Raif Armin, Scott Ayers, Bliss Blood, Kirk Carr, Frank Garymartin, Todd Leger, Toby Blunt, Kim Hickman, Clint Davidson, Mike Watt, David Garza, Jeff Haley, Chris Searles
Contents include: Venus in Furs live, location unknown. Speakers: Nick Cooper, Kevin Timson, Matt Kelly, Clay Embry, Jef Nunnaly, King Bo V, Dave Dove, Joe Salinas
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: Houston band Brown Paper Dog plays live. Location unknown. We deleted radio music at the end of this recording. Speaker: Trevi Biles
Contents include: Poor Dumb Bastards playing live in the studio. Speakers: Byron Dean, Mike Porterfield, Hunter Ward
Contents include: Poor Dumb Bastards playing live in the studio. Speakers: Byron Dean, Mike Porterfield, Hunter Ward
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: Robert Book and Ben Hippen host a call in radio show. They discuss current politics. Speakers: Robert Book, Ben Hippen
Contents include: (00:01) Dyn@mutt live. (30:20) The Suspects live. (59:18) D.R.U.M. live. We deleted radio music between sets and dead spots in the recording. Speakers: Chad Shaw, Dave Deggler, Doug Dileman, Baba Ifalade, Anura Neysadurai, Frank Zwee, Nathan Faulk, Osakwe Rikondja
Contents include: (00:01) Trenchmouth live. (41:01) Unknown singer live. (01:09:48) Unknown singer live. Speakers: Chris De Zutter, Damon Locks, Fred Armisen, Wayne Montana
Contents include: Ben Hippen and others host a call-in show on religion. Speakers: Ben Hippen
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: A KTRU DJ talks to Kathy McCarty about her album Dead Dog's Eyeball: Songs of Daniel Johnston. She and her band plays live. Speaker: Kathy McCarty
Contents include: KTRU News - Zapatista Solidarity Movement talks with Cristobal Hinojosa talks about the indigenous people in Mexico, Zapatista's demands, Mexican government, and the Clinton administration.
Contents include: Libertine live, location unknown.
Contents include: Shudder to Think acoustic set live, location unknown. Speaker: Craig Wedren
Contents include: On "Flap," Shaila Dewan talks to Adrian Piper about being light-skinned and difference in treatment by Black and white people, how she become an artist, racial identity in her art, "My Calling Card," what differentiates her political art, racism as a psychological problem, racial etiquette, and "Funk Lessons." Lujack Tyler tells about his time as an abused gay child/teen. Speakers: Shaila Dewan, Adrian Piper, Lujack Tyler
Contents include: On "Flap," Shaila Dewan talks to Carol Leigh, the "Scarlet Harlot," about becoming a prostitute, working for sex workers' rights, Commission on the Status of Women in San Francisco, issues with regulating prostitution, making "Sluts and Goddesses," creating porn and other short films, romantic relationships, and rules for clients for prostitutes. Lujack Tyler discusses Langston Hughes' poem "Lift Your Voice and Sing" and reimagines the poem. Speakers: Shaila Dewan, Carol Leigh, Lujack Tyler
Contents include: On "Flap," Lisa Carver talks about Suckdog, Rollerderby, sexuality, her upcoming book, Kurt Cobain, Riot Grrrl movement, Little House on the Prairie, relationship with the media, and feminism. Speakers: Lisa Carver, Shaila Dewan
Contents include: (00:01) Fred Wen and Melissa Jacobs talk to Jeanie Eller about the National Education Association, NEA being a union, disagreeing with their platform, education system a monopoly, rote methodization, literacy, on the Oprah Winfrey show, and ending the Department of Education. (:) Jeffrey Rios talks to a photographer documenting the Bosnian War. (48:48) Jeffrey Rios talks to Rhodesa Jones about her performance of "Big Butt Girls and Hard Headed Women," working with women in the penal system, Diverse Works, and the Parachute Project. Recording ends abruptly. Speakers: Jeanie Eller, Fred Wen, Melissa Jacobs, Jeffrey Rios, Rhodesa Jones
Contents include: Caulk live, location unknown. Speakers: Aden Holt, Marcus Bloom, Erik Schuman, Keith Sharp
Contents include: On "Flap," Peng Xiaolin talks about her parents during the Cultural Revolution, growing up in China, her films: "A Woman's Story" and "Me and My Classmates," leaving China, living in New York, Billy Harlem, returning to China, and making other films. Also, Fausto Fernós dramatically reads a safe sex pamphlet. Speakers: Fausto Fernós, Shaila Dewan, Peng Xiaolin
Contents include: (00:01) Silver Trading Post live. (13:15) Lump live. (43:19) Voice of Eye live. (01:16:33) de Schmog live. We deleted dead air between sets. Speakers: Ben Ellman, A. P. Gonzalez, Mike Joseph, Bonnie McNairn, Jim Wilson, Jonathon Sage, Christian Sweeney, Brandon Holbrook, Killian Sweeney, Dian Koistinen
Contents include: (00:01) de Schmog live. (18:33) Slaphappy live. (55:33) Bob live. Speakers: Jonathon Sage, Christian Sweeney, Brandon Holbrook, Killian Sweeney, Dian Koistinen, Chris Seymour, Rich Hudson, Eric Ingram, Ray Surinck
Contents include: (00:01) Death Valley live. (45:45) Alejandro Escovedo live. Speakers: Pepper Wilson, Blue, Joe Emery, Steve Mear
Contents include: Clover live, location unknown.
Contents include: On "Flap," Debra Anapol of the Abundant Love Institute talks about polyamory. Speakers: John Eastman, Debra Anapol, Shaila Dewan, Ned Cramer
Contents include: On "Flap," Shaila Dewan talks to Don Carroll about fishing, "Art Lies" with Mark Allen, art writing, In the middle, Tim Carroll reads from his work in progress "Schooled in the Panic." Airborn University,
Contents include: Fibulator live, location unknown. Speakers: Ken Holt, Chris Heco Davis, Geoff Soule, Jerry Brownrigg, Kris Langan, Sarah Arvey
Contents include: Jessica 6 live, location unknown. Speaker: Justin Crane
Contents include: On "Flap," Shaila Dewan talks to Dr. Robert Svoboda about Ayurveda, diet, exercise, sexism, and feminism. Speakers: Robert Svoboda, Shaila Dewan
Contents include: The Last Wish live at KTRU. Speakers: Justin Furstenfeld, Amy Immel, Katie Hartzog, Michelle Trautwein, Greg Hammond, Leital Molad, Brady Hammond, Abraham Diaz
Contents include: The Last Wish live, location unknown. Speakers: Justin Furstenfeld, Amy Immel, Katie Hartzog, Michelle Trautwein, Greg Hammond, Leital Molad, Brady Hammond, Abraham Diaz
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: Amy Denio live at Hamman Hall. Speaker: Amy Denio
Contents include: A KTRU DJ talks with Amy Denion about working with Japanese musicians, musical influences, The Billy Tipton Memorial Saxophone Quintet, and Muzak. She does a station ID. Speaker: Amy Denio
Contents include: (00:01) A KTRU DJ interviews Bret Easton Ellis about his book "The Informers," his focus on the 1980s, morality of his work, reviews, writing ideas, the culture wars, his optioned books, research, his early career, influences, how he fits in the writing world, writing for Generation X, being apolitical, drugs, "Kids," and current writing. Recording ends abruptly. There are two other shows on this reel: Deep Thoughts and Open Line, which are noted in Sub-Series T: 1994/1995. Speakers: Bret Easton Ellis
Contents include: On "KTRU News Show," Katherine Claire of Criss/Cross Consultants talks about her work with the cross dressing community to provide private consultations including purchasing clothing, and advice for make-up, hair, and dress. She defines cross dressers as heterosexual males who want to dress as woman, but not become women. She does not serve the transvestite, transgender, or drag queen communities. She discusses motivations for cross dressers using her service, repressing femininity, shopping, how she started in the business, Halloween activities, looking to purchase a store front, and upcoming film "Creating Carolyn." We deleted music and another program at the end of this recording. Speakers: Katherine Claire, Jeffrey Rios
Contents include: On "Flap," Shaila Dewan talks to Homi Bhabha about Salman Rushdi, performance art, the politics of exile, and his early life. Lisa Czyszczewski talks about mediocrity. Jenny Salomon, Homi Bhabha, Lisa Czyszczewski
Contents include: On "Flap," Shaila Dewan talks to Minnie Bruce Pratt about butch/femme, gender expression, traditional roles, her childhood, her mother, writing, and losing custody of her children based on her sexuality. In between the interview, Rangi McNeil reads a poem. Speakers: Minnie Bruce Pratt, Shaila Dewan, Rangi McNeil
Contents include: On "Spoken Word," Jess De Witt talks about performing, pleasure, reads poetry, and plays music. Speaker: Jess De Witt
Contents include: On "Flap," Jenny Salomon interviews Paul Tullis and Zev Borrow of "Might Magazine" about how they came to "Might," the Jack in the Box article, favorite articles, goals of the magazine, Texas arrest, humor, Christian Science Monitor, cheesy stuff, O.J. verdict, magazine's finances, and impressions. Speakers: Shaila Dewan, Jenny Salomon, Paul Tullis, Zev Borrow
Contents include: Silkworm live, location unknown. Speakers: Tim Midgett, Michael Dahlquist, Andy Cohen
Contents include: Tibetan Monks perform live at KTRU.
Contents include: (00:01) Ultra Hummus live. (10:46) Project Grimm live. (01:00:02) Jessica 6 live. We removed radio music between sets. Speakers: John Cramer, Rick Costello, Drew Calhoun, Jim Otterson, Ramon Medina
Contents include: (00:01) Tim Berne's Bloodcount live. (37:00) Unknown band, electronica. (51:30) Bad Ass. Speakers: Tim Berne, Herb Robertson, Joey Baron, David Sanborn, Kathy McCarty, Chris Nelson, John Paul
Contents include: Sincola live, location unknown. Speakers: Wendel Stivers, Kris Patterson, Chepo Pena, Terri Lord, Rebecca Cannon
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: (00:01) Erin Yownt [?] live at KTRU. (26:00) Personality Crisis. Speakers: Willie Dunivan, Robin Geiger
Contents include: (00:01) Spoon live; (27:08) Texas Guinness Lovers live; (01:13:54) Sarge live. Speakers: Britt Daniel, Josh Zarbo, Jim Eno, Brad Shenfeld, Kilian Sweeney, Phil Gayle, Bill Savoie, Jennifer Neira, Chris Bakos, Bo Morrison, Elizabeth Elmore, Rachel Switzky
Contents include: A KTRU DJ talks to Bowery Electric about their new album Beat, touring, future plans, rehearsal space, playing in New York, and Factory Press. They perform live at KTRU. Speakers: Lawrence Chandler, Martha Schwendener, Wayme Magruder
Contents include: Donkey live, a band from Amsterdam, location unknown.
Contents include: A KTRU DJ talks to Finn Taylor about this new movie "Dream with the Fishes," Sundance Film Festival, directing for the first time, re-writing his screenplays, movie soundtrack. Speakers: Finn Taylor
Contents include: A KTRU DJ talks to Richard Cagle and Randall Jamail of the Artist Management Group about musical talent in Houston, promotion issues, collaboration, a good band, why bands need a manager, why bands might need a label, the Hellhole Compilation, controversy surrounding the compilation, Justice Records, and new recordings. Speakers: Richard Cagle, Randall Jamail
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: Helium live, location unknown. They also talk about touring, how Ash Bowie has changed the sound, favorite candy, song meaning, and answer silly questions. Speakers: Mary Lou Lord, Brian Dunton, Mary Timony, Ash Bowie, Shawn Devlin
Contents include: (00:01) Phil Gayle Trio live. (49:55) Secret Agent 8 live. (01:30:12) Wholesome Rollers live. Speakers: Dave Dove, Phil Gayle, Will Frith, Zack Clayton, Kenny Dickman, Clint Dale, Aaron Koerner, David Evans, Chris Jensen, Justin Brouillard
Contents include: (00:01) Slight Surface Noise [?] live. (24:55) Little Jack Melody and His Young Turks live. (01:23:53) Bruce Eisenbeil Trio live. Speakers: Bruce Eisenbeil, Lou Grassi, Rob Brown, Adolfo Acosta, Jim Cocke, Aaron Crouch, Dave Dorbin, Jacob Duncan, Terry Hankins, Little Jack Melody, Chad Makela, Jerome Rossen, Joe Shyka, David Wilcox, Mike Switzer, Vaughan Boone
Contents include: John Fahey live at the KTRU Outdoor Show. Speaker: John Fahey
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: KTRU DJ interviews Gomez about their Mercury Prize, blues influences, Ben Harper, other genre influences, Massive Attack, Santana, touring, history, writing new music, favorite cereal, breakfast, groupies, and travelling. Speakers: Tom Gray, Paul Blackburn
Contents include: Westbury Squares live at the KTRU Outdoor Show. Speakers: Mickey DeLeon, Davey McEathron, Vince Hernandez
Contents incude: Brown Whörnet live at the KTRU Outdoor Show. Speakers: Anti-Ear, Carolyn Cremona, Clay Embry, Jimmy Burdine, Julien Peterson, Peter Stopschinski
Contents include: Freedom Sold live at the KTRU Outdoor Show. Speakers: Kwame Anderson, Arthur Salazar
Contents include: Spacheads live, location unknown. Speakers: Andy Diagram, Richard Harrison
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: Buddies live, location unknown. The audio is quite poor quality.
Contents include: Death Penalty Debate featuring Mandy Welch and Dr. Baruch Brody. The debate took place during Rice Amnesty International's Death Penalty Awareness Week. Speakers: Baruch Brody, Mandy Welch
Contents include: Bobby Conn live, location unknown. He also does an interview. A KTRU DJ talks to him about Llovesonngs, Nilsson Schmilsson, touring, and his upcoming show. Speakers: Bobby Conn
Contents include: (00:00) Mike Rosenthal live; (32:56) Carter Brown live. Speakers: Mike Rosenthal, Justin Crane, Carter Brown
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: (00:01) Dennis Gonzalez Yells at Eels live. (04:38) Quintron and Miss Pussycat live. (43:08) The Deathray Davies live. (01:27:35) Lozenge We deleted radio music between sets. Speakers: Tim Green, Aaron Gonzalez, Stefan Gonzalez, Dennis Gonzalez, John Dufilho, Jason Garner, Bill Shupp, Lindsay Romig, Kevin Ingle, Kurt Johnson, Kyle Bruckmann, Mark Stevens, Philip Montoro
Contents include: (00:01) Matty and Mossy live [?] (15:10) 25 Suaves live. (29:20) Philip Gelb live. (01:05:00) Dennis Gonzalez Yells at Eels live. We deleted radio music between sets. Speakers: Peter Larson, Fumie Kawasaki, Tim Green, Aaron Gonzalez, Stefan Gonzalez, Dennis Gonzalez, Heath Flagtvedt, John Hunter, Shoko Hikage, Tim Perkis
Contents include: (00:01) Lozenge live (17:02) The Rondelles live. Speakers: Kurt Johnson, Kyle Bruckmann, Mark Stevens, Philip Montoro, Cory Shane, Juliet Swango, Oakley Munson, Yukiko Moynihan
Contents include: My Education live at KTRU. Speakers: Sean Seagler, Eric Gibbons, Brian Purington, Chris Hackstie, Kirk Laktas, James Alexander, Travis Weller
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: Elizabeth Elmore plays live at KTRU. She also talks to KTRU DJs about law school, her show in Lyle's, Speaker: Elizabeth Elmore, Chad Romanski, Greg Mytych, Joel Root, Scott Rosenquist, Sean Hulet
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: Susan Alcorn live at the KTRU Outdoor Show. Speaker: Susan Alcorn
Contents include: (00:01) The Fighting Type live. (13:14) Rotten Piece live. Both are playing at the KTRU Outdoor Show. Sections of this recording during The Fighting Type set may have degraded on the original DAT tape. We deleted dead air throughout the recording. Speakers: Lance Walker, Carol Sandin, Shaun Kelly
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: The New Sound of My Bossa Nova live at the KTRU Outdoor Show. Speakers: Justin Shay, Patrick Elkins, Kelly Szott, Jason Voss
Contents include: Jana Hunter live at the KTRU Outdoor Show. Speaker: Jana Hunter
Contents include: Muzak live at the KTRU Outdoor Show. Speaker: Johnny Muzak
Contents include: Telephone Company live. (26:28) Weird Weeds live. (53:23) Rua Minx live. Speakers: Sandy Ewen, Nick Hennies, Aaron Russell, Lindsay Verrill, Donna Huanca
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: Anna Oxygen performs live at the KTRU Outdoor Show. Speakers: Anna Jordan Huff, Anna Oxygen
Contents include: (00:01) Dave Dove live at the KTRU Outdoor Show. (25:01) Tree Wave live at the KTRU Outdoor Show. We deleted radio music in between sets. Speakers: Dave Dove, Paul Slocum, Lauren Gray
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contens include: My Education live in the KTRU studios. Speakers: Travis Weller, James Alexander, Brian Purington, Chris Hackstie, Eric Gibbons, Sean Ziegler, Kirk Laktas
Contents include: Adam Lee Miller and Nicola Kuperus do station IDs. Speakers: Adam Lee Miller, Nicola Kuperus
Contents include: A KTRU DJ talks to Davy Rothbart of Found Magazine about what the magazine does, touring, "Dirty Found," stories about the found items, and "The Lone Surfer of Montana, Kansas." He does a station ID. Speakers: Davy Rothbart
Contents include: (00:01) The Old-Timerz live. (30:18) Satin Hooks live. (51:37) Go Spread Your Wings live. (01:15:31) Sam Prekop live. We deleted dead air and radio music between sets. Speakers: Patrick Healy, Kenny Melonson, Lucas Gorham, David Gomez, Sam Prekop
All of the items in this year have been digitized. Those items that are online are located at: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/96594For all nearline items, there are master file wavs and access copy mp3s. Nearline items include audio files containing copyrighted information or are not suitable for online access.
Contents include: (00:01) Despot live (23:10) 120 Days live. Sections of this recording during 120 Days set may have degraded on the original DAT tape. We removed sections with no sound and radio music in the middle and end. Speakers: Alex Resinsetin, Despot, Ådne Meisfjord, Kjetil Ovesen, Jonas Hestvik Dahl, Arne Kvalvik
Contents include: (00:01) Moxie live (42:43) The Dimes live. We removed sections with no sound and radio music in the middle. Speakers: Johnny Clay, Pierre Johnson, Ryan Johnston
Contents include: pdfs and and a jpg of contracts, emails, and other information related to the 50th anniversary concert featuring Jandek, Open Mike Eagle, Austin Sepulvado, and Peter Silberman
The Ellington Field research collection relates to the history of Ellington Field (later designated Ellington Air Force Base) and the development of military aviation from World War I through to the Space Age. Subjects include the history of the airfield and some of the units that served there, women in the military at Ellington Field, African Americans in the military, NASA, Johnson Space Center, the Air National Guard, Texas National Gaurd, and the Houston Airport System. Photographs date from 1917- 2007, diaries, postcards and memorabilia date from World War I and World War II. Two rolls of microfilm from the Air Force History and Research Agency ( AFHRA) contain the base records and reports from 1940-1945. Documentation includes Morrow's research notes and copies of primary sources such as crash investigation reports, Houston Aiport System records, leases, press releases and newspaper clippings. Books include diaries, memoirs, unit histories, and military histories. Recorded and live interviews date from 1967-2007.
Correspondence from and between Anah Marie Leland Streetman and others, 1917-1953, and memorabilia primarily during her high school and college years, 1916-1922. Letters detail academic and social activities at Rice and offer a glimpse at her family life and are primarily between her, W.M. Streetman and family members.
Note: Anah Marie Leland Streetman had several nicknames, which help identify the correspondence: "Petty" used by her father; "City" used by her brother; "Bobby" used by husband and friends in adult life.
Meeting notes, agendas, transcripts and reports mainly related to E.W. Kelley's work on Federal Open Market Committee as Governor for the Federal Reserve's Board of Governors.
Correspondence, notes, publications filed by Kelley in chronological order by year.
This collection consists of 2 hand colored prints These appear to date from 1598 and 1700 but are mounted on acidic board and cannot be fully examined. The prints include bird's-eye views of Italian villa of Caprarola and Danish capital of Odense.
Transcription of text on item:
"Civitatis Episcopalis othenarum sive Otthoniae, Vt Vulgo digitur, Fioniae, Insularum Daniae Regni Amoe Nissimae Ferti lissimaeque Metropolis secundum situm & Figuram quam Hoc Seculo Habet, Delineatio,. Anno Partae per Unicum Mediatorem XPM, Salutis. MDLXXXIII Genere, virtutibus, famaque illustri Henrico Ranzouio, Imperiati et Repio Dunico, consifiario,; Ducatuumque Slesvici, Holsatiae et Dithmarsiae gubernatore, summorum et optimor conatuum promotore impensas suppeditante, 1598"This item appears to be the same as the item offered at "Antiquariat Reinhold Berg", Germany (http://www.bergbook.com)
"Original copper-engraving, hand colored in wash, published 1598 in volume V in the town book 'Civitates Orbis Terrarum' by Braun and Hogenberg. The entire series of the 'Civitates Orbis Terrarum' comprised six volumes and was published and printed from 1572 towards 1619. A beautiful bird's eye view of Odense, capital of Fionia in Denmark. This view shows us the city of Odense detailed engraved with streets, houses, churches, places and its surrounding with the adjacent Baltic Sea with sailing ships in the water. At the bottom we find a table of explanations listing important buildings of the city. This view was published 1598 in volume V of Braun and Hogenberg's 'Civitates Orbis Terrarum'." (description excerpted from "http://www.bergbook.com/htdocs/woda/data/demo/descriptions/19267.htm" accessed Feb. 22, 2010)
This 16x20 colored engraving shows ground-plan of Italian villa of Caprarola with gardens.
This item appears to be the same as item offered at auction by "Live Auctioneers" Lot 125, Feb. 2010 http://www.liveauctioneers.com/item/2747474.
This collection includes the business records associated with Champions Golf Club located in the area of Houston, Texas. The club was founded by pro golfers Jimmy Demaret and Jack Burke, Jr. in 1957 with the purpose of promoting the game of golf and bringing active competition to its members and guests and to host significant national championships. This collection includes photographs, business papers, correspondence, news clips, and area maps from 1956 to 2007. Subject areas include golf course design, the logistics of hosting local and national competitions, photographs of celebrity guests including Hollywood stars, and information about club-related subdivisions. The collection is in excellent condition. It consists of 24 boxes and cartons with oversize items in a map draw. The collection is 22 linear feet.
These born digital video files consist of one master copy mp4 and one access copy mp4.
Scope and Content
CBEN-ICON Kristen Kulinowski academic papers contain records of the Center for Biological and Environmnetal Nanotechnology (CBEN) and the International Council on Naotechnology (ICON) from roughly 2004 to 2008. Kulinowski was executive director of CBEN and director of ICON. This collection consists of six boxes of mixed media, including text, correspondence, publications, brochures and multimedia formats, such as DVDs. Subjects include the administrative side of CBEN and ICON, work with the National Science Foundation (NSF) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and numerous conferences and workshops. The materials measure 6 linear feet (6 boxes) and are in good shape.
Contains minutes, memoranda, reports, and correspondence of the Admission Committees from 1946-1988 from the papers of Presidents William V. Houston, Kenneth Pitzer, Norman Hackerman, and George Rupp.
Takao Doi, who received his doctorate from Rice, carried this cloth image of the Orion Nebula on the Unites States Space Shuttle Endeavour mission STS-123. The image of the Orion Nebula is on a cloth that is 21.5 inches wide by 17 inches high. The cloth is of an unknown material and appears to be printed in color by a computer-generated technique. Also included with the cloth is a NASA certificate of authenticity and a letter from Rice President David Leebron thanking him Doi for his donation. The materials are in good condition.
The manuscripts, and related correspondence and notes concerning the publication of the Austrian History Newsletter and Yearbook. The A.H. Newsletter first appeared in 1960 while its managing editor, R. John Rath was at the University of Texas. After 4 issues, it was superceded by the Austrian History Yearbook, published by Rice University, where Rath had come to teach. Rath eventually left Rice University and subsequently took the publication with him. The collection consists primarily of the typescripts for articles appearing in the Yearbook. In general, the earliest and the final typescripts for each article have been kept. In the case of foreign language articles, the first translation has also been kept. Any correspondence and notes pertaining to the articles have been placed in the article's folder. The collection is arranged according to the table of contents of each Newsletter/Yearbook.
The minutes, reports, memoranda, and correspondence generated by the Committee on Campus Safety and by its predecessor, the Committee on Disasters and Emergencies (aka Disasters and Defense Committee).
The Houston Book Clubs research materials consist of material from 1993-2007, including interviews, surveys, emails, reports, essays, lists, and correspondence between Elizabeth Long and members of the literary community. The files were compiled by Elizabeth Long during her study of the role of women's reading groups for her 2003 book "Book Clubs: Women and the Uses of Reading in Everyday Life" (University of Chicago Press). The surveys and interviews were conducted with Houston area book clubs from 1999-2007 with research focusing on both online book clubs and traditional ones and pertaining to their origins, members, discussions, and processes of book selection. Additionally, the collection contains information from and relating to the 2001 workshop in Cologne, Germany entitled "How literature enters life", sponsored by the International Association for the Empirical Study of Literature and the Media. Research on reading groups is arranged by individual book clubs.
This file includes 16 DVDs of oral history interviews:
Beverly Aderholf,
Shirley Boyd,
Frances Callendar,
Penny Cerling,
Delia Cowles,
M.J. Figard,
Lois Guerning,
Peggy Hester,
Margaret Kaye,
Gayle McMurrow,
Kay McStay,
Barbara Nelson,
Diane Roberts,
Sandra Walsh,
Linda Yarger,
Pam Young
Copies of annotated typewritten summaries of Eyes of Texas television episodes 1978-1993 and 2007-2009 as prepared by KPRC-TV, and copies of episodes in DVD format, beginning Sept. 02, 1978 through 1992, and 2007-2009, with some missing episodes as noted below. To access the episodes here on DVD, request call # F 391.2 .E93 ) followed by the episode number and (WRC). For example, F 391.2 .E93 episode 001 (WRC). Episodes missing from the DVD set are: Episodes 25-27 (1979)Episodes 43-59 (1979)Episodes 65-67 (1980)Episode 83 (1980)Episodes 102-104 (1981)Episodes 114-119 (1981)Episodes 132-137 (1981)Episodes 150-152 (1982)Episodes 157-160 (1982)Episodes 164-172 (1982)Episodes 190-192 (1983)Episodes 197-199 (1983)Episodes 212-214 (1983)Episodes 233-235 (1984)Episode 242 (1984)Episodes 246-248 (1984)Episode 254 (1984)15th anniversary show (August 06, 1984)Episodes 259-261 (1985)Episodes 271-276 (1985)Episodes 280-282 (1985)Episodes 292-294 (1986)Episodes 317-319 (1986)Episodes 326-328 (1986)Episodes 365-368 (1987-1988)Episodes 375-380 (1988)Episodes 387-391 (1988)Episodes 395-400 (1988)Episodes 404-409 (1989)Episodes 428-430 (1989)Episodes 445-450 (1990)Episodes 463-468 (1990)Episodes 475-480 (1990-1991)All episodes missing for 1993
The Ira Gruber Papers from 1934 – 2022 include correspondence of faculty meetings, recommendations on faculty and graduate students, personal letters, course development, and professional writings. Papers on the development and revisions of his four major writings, The Howe Brothers and the American Revolution, Warfare in Western World: Military Operations Since 1871, John Peebles' American War: The Diary of a Scottish Grenadier and Books and the British Army at the Time of the American Revolution. Also contained in this collection are Ira Gruber's papers on the courses he developed and taught including notes and exams. The papers and correspondence on his service for development of course distribution credit, faculty handbook, and professional vitae. Personal appointment calendars and papers dealing with his involvement in the Champions Golf Club are also contained within collection.
This Addendum includes roughly one hundred fifty letters written between 1934 and 1982 to Ira Gruber's mother (Mary Louise Dempsey Gruber, 1909-1983). Ira Gruber and his wife, Patricia Sanderford Gruber (1929- ) wrote two-thirds of these letters to his "Mom." Their children—Anna, Talarah, and Conrad Gruber—wrote most of the remainder, all except a few letters from his mother's brothers Roger, James, and Donald Dempsey to their sister, "Lou." Some of Ira's and his wife's letters are addressed to both his mother and his younger sister, "Mary Lou" (Mary Louise Gruber Pollack, 1949- ).. His mother left only three drafts of replies: one to her son and two to the head of her daughter's school.
Ira's letters to his mother were written while he was a student at Duke University, an officer in the U. S. Navy, a post-doctoral fellow at the Institute of Early American History and Culture, and a member of the history departments at Duke, the College of William and Mary, Occidental College, and Rice University. Taken together, Ira's letters complement his Academic Career Papers at Rice—providing glimpses of his reading, the academic advice he gave to his sister and children, and, especially, the research and writing he did between 1965 and 1980 when he published his first book and more than a dozen articles and lectures.
Official records of the Rice University Office of the Controller, reflecting the results of their daily business in the form of reports.
Contains memoranda on organization, faculty, student, research, human resources, and general policies of Rice University, divided into folders by each policy section.
Also included: two reports from the Ad Hoc Committee on the Alcohol Policy
This collection consists of correspondence, research notes, and published articles and manuscripts related to German and Slavic Studies by Susan L. Clark, as well as some co-authored by her colleague Julian M. Wasserman. Susan Louise Clark, professor of German and Slavic Studies at Rice University, was born April 21, 1948 in Canton, Ohio. She graduated from Mount Union College in Alliance, Ohio, and received a doctoral degree in Comparative Literature from Rutgers University in 1973. She came directly to Rice University and, in 1985, was promoted to Full Professor of German and Slavic Studies. She was a member of numerous professional organizations, and was highly regarded as a feminist scholar. Dates: 1976-1990.
Quantity: 1.5 linear ft. (3 boxes)
The collection consists of 48 boxes documenting the activities of Rice University, with a focus on the student life through photography. It contains an assortment of prints, photographs, negatives, and negative slides concerning the Rice University campus, student life, sports, professors, the O'Conner House, the Baker Institute, commencements, and other University events. Dates range from 1970 – 2004.
Memoranda, correspondence, reports, letters of appointment, and replies to the letters of the Committee on Affirmative Action, from the Committee's inception in 1970 to 1985.
This collection consists of circa 700 color prints stolen from the journals Ibis (the journal of the British Ornithologists' Union) and Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London, owned by the Fondren Library. The prints date from 1859-1915 and feature birds, bird eggs, bird nests and other animals. The prints were recovered after Blumberg's 1991 arrest and returned to Fondren Library. The bags in which they are stored are the bags which Blumberg used for them. The folder names for the bags reflect his labeling on the bags. Theft correspondence and research dates from 1980-2004 and represents the Fondren Library's efforts to cooperate with and assist in the Blumberg investigation.
Additionally, Series III includes plates recovered from other unidentified sources, probably unrelated to the thefts from Ibis and the Journal of Zoology. These prints were found in the collections at the Woodson Researcher Center with no provenance information, but are similar in nature to the other plates in this collection, and so are being included here.
Two page sheet detailing the bibliographic description of the journal Ibis and police reports detailing contents of plastic bags containing stolen plates.
Catalogue from Hartfield's Fine and Rare Books store dated February 11, 1985. Contains information of the value of some of the stolen plates (listing # L-74).
Printout details the location and volumes of journals held by Fondren from which plates were stolen.
Photocopies of illustration listings contained in Alfred Guernsey's book "Harper's Pictorial History of the Civil War" dated 1868.
Bibliographic listings of Fondren's holdings that are missing (with sample plates), dated May 12, 1981.
A collection of handwritten and typed notes containing bibliographic listings of journals and books originally thought to hold the stolen plates. Annotations by librarians concerning the status of the plates are also present.
A collection photocopies from Ibis's plate listings in the order in which they appear in their original publications.
One hundred forty-four page booklet edited by William Moffett of Oberlin College listing the books stolen by another book thief, James Shinn. This booklet was created to facilitate communication between universities that had been victims of Shinn when the recovered books ended up at the wrong libraries.
Printout from the Web of the November 1991 edition of the Abbey Newsletter detailing Stephen Blumberg's life and history of his thefts.
The collection consists of letters from Camp Logan and from France, wartime decorations, uniforms, and personal military equipment, as well as his Mother's Red Cross Uniform and service pin.
The collection is composed of 3 boxes of documents and electronic media that document the internal business of Scientia and activities undertaken by the organization to fulfill its mission of promoting scholarship and research in the area of history of science and culture to benefit the Houston community. Documents and materials are in good condition and include charters, by-laws, memberships lists, other business papers, correspondence, lecture programs, and audio, video and electronic media.
These scrapbooks contain photographs, correspondence, invitations, event programs, news clippings, and memorabilia collected by Lynn Wyatt, documenting her work with charitable and fine arts organizations, leadership as a Houston socialite and best-dressed icon, and international travels. There is some material concerning her husband, Oscar Wyatt, and his role in the oil and natural gas industry, and one scrapbook devoted to Princess Caroline, daughter of Lynn Wyatt's close friends the late Prince Rainier III of Monaco and Princess Grace.
These records reflect the core academic interests of William "Bill" Martin, Prof. of Sociology, Rice University. Formats included clippings, research files, notebooks, books and subject files. Subjects include anthropology, education, political science, religion, ethics, popular culture and psychology.
The bulk of this box relates to education. It includes newsclippings on subjects such as how people learn, a paper by Martin entitled "Student thinking in the Age of Aquarius", articles and publications about Rice University.
Topics of newsclippings and articles gathered here include right wing movements, extremism, Nazis, Iran in the 1980s and 1990s, India and Gandhi, Ireland 1994, El Salvador 1981-1983.
Christianity, clergy, church renewal, Jesus Christ as historical figure, occupational roles and education.
Evangelism, Satan, church structure, theological themes in major religions, role of religion outside church
Theologians including Calvin, Luther, Tillich; Biblical, Modern and Neo-orthodoxy; Unbelief; women and youth in the church
Theory of Natural Law, Theological and Christian ethics, Bibicla ethics, Christian perspective on ethical concepts such as justice, power, conflict and honesty
Relating mainly to technologies, industry, business, politics, medicine, poverty, hunger.
Papers of affects (love, jealousy); social behaviors such as aggression and gossip; cognitive processes and abilities; forms of therapy including hypnosis.
Treatment for disorders; types of disorders; personality traits; persuasion and prejudice; situational factors; psychiatry.
Sociology course materials 1974, 1982-1984; Focus on myths, ritual, icons, heroes, stereotypes and the use of these in media and advertising
Fine arts (dance and drama), Entertainment (celebrities, video games, comedy), Customs and trends, Festivals and fairs, Heroes
History of pop culture, modern themes and social values, popular humor, superstitions and lifestyles.
Fine arts (opera and music), Occult and ritual, news and media, politics, places, social issues, book genres.
Religion, technology, theater, social issues, trends, culture in Texas and the West, important leaders and icons
Consumers of sports and commercialism, mass media; myths about athletes; college sports and education; philosophy of sports
Sports and recreation: women, advertising, economics, injuries, violence.
Analysis of doctrine on the knowledge of God in the writings of 19th century theologians; course materials for classes taken by martin at Harvard Divinity School, 1960-1965.
Papers and class notes by Martin while at Harvard Divinity School, including such topics as poverty, homosexuality, criminal justice.
The photo and biographical files in this collection were created and manitained by the Rice University Office of News and Media Relations for use in the news releases generated as official Rice communications.
This collection includes the files of former Athletic Director Bobby May. It includes paperwork, correspondence, and records pertaining to Rice University's Athletic Department between the years 1987 and 2005. The collection is divided into 9 series: Chronological, NCAA, WAC, Title IX, Barbara Tolar, Endowments, Marketing, the Wingenroth Lawsuit, and Reckling Park.
The Center's publications are of four main types:
technical reports, represented by detailed methodology and findings of non-proprietary projects;
research summaries, which present in capsule form the results of community-oriented research Technical Reports;
research profiles, which summarize economics and demographics of regions; and research briefs, which describe various office activity centers in Houston, Dallas, and San Antonio. In addition the collection includes publications of the Center's Joint Center for Urban Mobility Research, Real Estate Markets Briefs, and occasional Center newsletters, research papers, working papers, surveys, and proposals, as well as conference reports of importance to the Center's advancement. Included with these materials generated by the Center are records of two projects of the University of Louisville Urban Studies Center which served as precursors to much of the early research completed at the Rice Center. 
The collection consists of notes, correspondence, and minutes drawn from several sources, primarily President Pitzer's Papers, Acting President Vandiver and President Hackerman's Papers. Some were from an unknown source, perhaps the early committee chairmen. There was no cohesive structure to the files and so they were interfiled chronologically. This method shows, in most cases, issues brought before the committee and the process of their resolution from start to finish.
This collection contains the memoranda, reports, proposals and correspondence generated by or for the Committee on Undergraduate Teaching. The collection is arranged chronologically and does not include the questionnaire forms of student evaluations.
This collection contains the minutes, memoranda, reports, and correspondence documenting the activities of the Committee on Student Affairs.
These records contain information on commissions, minutes of meetings both of the committee and of the Association of Naval ROTC Colleges; questionnaires sent to other schools with ROTC programs; information on various ROTC summer camp programs and a significant number of correspondences between ROTC Committee chairmen, faculty, and administration.
Included in box 1 are minutes of the committee's meetings, lists of lecturers, suggestions for speakers, administrative files, and materials pertaining to the lectures (including those lecturers asked, but did not speak). Boxes 2 and 3 contain copies of the individual lectures given by Edward Teller, C.P Snow, Buckmaster Fuller, James Stockdale, and Hyman Rickover among others.
The bulk of these records relate to Akers' administrative roles at Rice University, particularly as Vice President for Administration. Correspondence, memos, articles, newsclippings reflect his interests both as university administrator and as professor in the Department of Chemical Engineering. Materials related to the U.S. Civil War and owned by Akers are also present.
This collection consists of papers documenting the professional activity of Gilbert R. Whitaker, Jr. from the 1970's through 2004, primarily at the University of Michigan and Rice University. Included are personal day books, correspondence, newsclippings, speeches, and photographs.
The collection consists of a book containing meeting reports and newspaper clippings detailing the activities of the club. Also included is a folio containing manuscript and typescript poetry written by club members.
These records contain files related to acquisitions for the Rice University Art Collection. The files contain images, correspondence, and appraisals as well as donor and accession details.
Biochemistry Department files documenting the daily business of the department, including records of seminars, faculty members' grants, department brochures, budget files, and more. Faculty members represented include but are not limited to Kathleen Beckingham, George N. Bennett, Janet Braam, Susan Gibson, Raymon M. Glantz, Richard H. Gomer, Michael Gustin, Kathleen S. Matthews, John S. Olson, Graham A. Palmer, George N. Phillips, Jr., and Michael Stern.
Included in the collection are scripts from the 1920s as well as programs, ephemera, and photographs. In addition there are newsclippings and a ledger beginning in 1931 and continuing through 1934 containing lists of members, committee assignments, and minutes of meetings.
The Soundings records consist of correspondence, lists of authors and subscribers and financial records relating to the publication of Soundings (1953). Included in the anthology are works by James Korges, James Dickey, William Goyen, and David Westheimer. An edition of the publication is cataloged in the Woodson Research Center (call # PS 508 .C6 S68)
Photographs, newsclippings, departmental booklets and scrapbooks conveying the history of the Space Science Department at Rice University, 1960s-2020s.
Newsclippings documenting the research and accomplishments of the Rice University Space Science Department, featuring Rice scientists F. Curtis Michel, Alexander J. Dressler, Dieter Heymann, Curtis D. Laughlin, Ramon Trachta, W.S. Carey, Robert C. Haymes, Brian J. O'Brien and graduate student Wade Craddock.
Also featuring Congressman Albert Thomas, Rice President, Dr. Kenneth Pitzer and NASA.
The collection contains letters written to Brady Tyson as editor of the Rice Thresher from September 1, 1948 to February 14, 1949 and photocopies of newspaper letters and articles regarding the segregation controversy, particularly in relation to opportunity for African Americans to be admitted to the Rice Institute graduate school. The material dates from a letter of September 6, 1948, to the Houston Press to an editorial from Texas Technological College in Lubbock, Texas, printed in the Rice Thresher of March 2, 1949.
Records of the Search Committee for the position of Dean of Architecture, spanning the years 1988 to 1993. Included are committee material from committees of 1988, 1990, and 1992-93, and files of candidates for 1989, 1990 and related correspondence.
This collection consists of sales/payment records, tax records, maps, deeds, and correspondence concerning the town lots received by the Rice Institute from the Rice Estate—mostly relative to the towns of Paige, Mexia, Hempstead, Kasse, Richland, Bremond, and Calvert, and dating from 1868 to 1978. The collection also includes deeds, construction contracts, inventories, tax records, and correspondence concerning the Rice Hotel and the 99-year lease with the Houston Endowment.
Newspaper issues of the Southwest Chinese Journal (cataloged separately), photographs submitted to the newspaper for publication purposes and a small amount of correspondence regarding the Lee Printing Company of Houston, Texas, owned by Gene and Hedy Lee. The newspapers and photographs reflect Chinese culture in Houston during the 1970s and 1980s, including family life, business activities, cultural arts and organizations, news, and special events such as the Miss Chinatown contests. The bulk of the materials are comprised of these photographs, many of which taken by photographer Alvin Wong Gee. Gene's Food Market materials include wholesale grocery receipts and two interior photographs.
Identified individuals include Young Il Lee, Alvin Gee (photographer), William Der Bing (NASA Public Information Specialist), Deborah Young Lim (Interior Design), Hardy J. Lee (police), Dr. Rose Tang, Sue-Hwa Loo (biologist), Russell David Yang, Luois Chow (pharmacist), Lily Yeo (police), Roberta T.S. Lee (M.D.), Kwun Kay Szeto (owner of Barbecue Shop), Dr. James Tsao (lecturer), June Dove Leong (jeweler?), Dr. James Tang (M.D.), Patrick Cheng (China Restaurant), Steve and Annie Tsui (Steve's Food market No. 2) and Chris Lee (Deputy Sheriff).
Businesses pictured include Diho Market, Yank Sing Chinese 7 American restaurant, Golden Palace restaurant, Chuen Sun Import Export, You Name It Antiques Plants & Gifts.
Professions represented (by unidentified individuals) include restauranteurs, bankers, radio dj's, students, and more.
Featured art forms include music, dance, dress, artifacts / objects, martial arts, dragon costumes, dishes, exhibits. People featured include Li Cunxin of the Houston ballet, Peter Lin and others of the Chinese Christian Art Crusade, Tom Ng with guitar and others.
Many of these photos feature Chinese in Houston appearing with Mayor Kathy Whitmire at political events.
Chinese campaigning for democratic candidates in U.S.; Bette Bao Lord (author of novel, Spring Moon); photographer Alvin Gee with celebrities at Inc. Magazine's 500 Fastest Growing Companies event in Houston, May 1984.
Includes images of the Sharpstown Senior High Chinese Cultural Club, Texas Buddhist Association, Chinese American Citizens Alliance (with Councilman Frank Mancuso and event emcee Ping Yang Chou), University of Houston Chinese Student Association, and the YMCA Indochinese Refugee Program.
Color snapshots of groups in restaurants or other banquet facilities, or at other family and friend celebrations and events. Not all images are indentified. Some of the identified names include Bernard Go, Edward Woo and family, Robert Foo Lee, Mr. and Mrs. Bill Woo, Major James McConn, Dorothy Toy (Chan) at the Great Wall, Terry Chang, Sherman Tiym Albert Lee, Henry Lee and Larry Y. Woo.
Not all photographs are identified. Names appearing on the identified photographs include Mrs. Margaret Seito Wong, Mrs. H. Wong, Ton and Mamie Yee, Dr. Hwa Jer Tsai, Cindy Li, Karen M. Lee, Frances Wong, Pauline Wong, Pauline Hou Chan, Allen Gau, Betty Lee, C.C. Huang, K.C. Chen, F.C. Lin, S.C. Huang, S.T. Hsu, C.H. Chen, W.T. Hsu, Deanna and Cameron, Jennifer Liu, Natalie Hsu, Dr. ned Hwang and Mr. San Hwang, Dr. James Tong, Liang Chi, Daniel H.L. Chang, David Ng, Darlene Chan, Jane E. Gee, Congresswoman Lera Thomas, Father Luis Chia, Dr. Jue Kang, Dr. Baldwin H. Tom, Esther Lee Yao, Danny Lee, Jiua Lu, Mary Toy, Tom Ng, Frank SUng, Tarzan Huang, Ting Sun, Lap Wong,Martha Wong, Simone Gee, Frank O. Mancuso, Consul General Shan-Chung Lee, Bobby T. Lo, Michelle Fang, Carol Eng, Donna Wong, Philip Cheung, Father Francies X. Chang.
Not all photographs are identified. Names appearing on the identified photographs include Mayor Jim McConn, Geneva Kirk Brooks, Mr. and Mrs. Chuang Li Huang, Bill Woo, Lewis Yee, Bill Quan, Patrick P.C. Chang, Lee Chia, Kim Gee, Dr. Roland C.K. Ng, Dr. Benning Tan Lu, Mr. and Mrs. Peter Chin, Jeff Yao, Ho family, Ting Sun, Suzanne See, Amy Sit, Rev. and Mrs. Wang, Helen Liu, Dr. Joyce Fan, Chin family, Minister Mo-Sung-nien, Consul general Chuan-li Huang, Mr. and Mrs. Eo Hong, Pastor David Chan, Mr. and Mrs. Kellogg Wong (architect), Dr. Beng Ho, Herbert King, Shen Gee Foy, Dr. Hong Sit, Dr. Katherine Hsu, actress Debra Paget Kung, Gordon Gee, Robert and Susan Dawn, Howard Fong, Marilyn Hsu, Dr. Tzu C. Lu, William Simm, Howard Shunon Tsoi, Chan-Huie Yang with violinist Cho-Liang Lin, Daniel and Myra Chang, ted Wu,Mr. and Mrs. Harry Ng, Mary Ann Wong, Mr. Lubowsky.
Portraits of Mrs. Leong as well as family photographs such as the wedding of her daughter.
Color and black and white snapshots of the Miss Chinatown contest events as well portraits of the contestants. Names include Shirley Ng, Virginia Chang, Clara Chou, Elizabeth Jee, Ellen Gee, Bella Truong, Muoy Kuon, Suzette Hong, Wai Man Ip, Ying Mai Wu, Yvonne Lai. Not all images are identified.
Press releases sent in to the Southwest Chinese Journal for publication, covering general event topics in Houston such as performances coming up at Astroworld.
These are generally color snapshots of the bride and groom in the wedding ceremony location, with some additional photographs of family posing with the couple. Names which appear include Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth Eng, Doris and Lonnie Liu, Mr. and Mrs. Ben Liu, Mr. and Mrs. Jimmy Wong, Hubert and Betsy Cheung, Mr. and Mrs. Russell Wong, Irene and Franc Lee, Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Chee, Mr. and Mrs. Bill Ong.
Clippings from the Houston Chronicle, Houston Post and Southwest Chinese Journal regarding Chinese in Houston and President Carter's foreign relations efforts with China.
Receipts for goods delivered to Gene's Food Market from companies such as Hogan-Allnoch Co., Schott's Sunbeam Bread, Borden's, Mrs. Bairds, Lone Star Beer, Grocers' Supply Company, Rainbow Baking Co., E.L. Sauer & Sons Sausage and Bacon, Emmett's Seafood and others.
Featuring Gene and Hedy Lee in the market, as well as staff member Robert Holiday and an undientified staff member. Robert Holiday is also noted and photographed here as having worked with the Lee family at the Lee Printing Company in the 1970s.
Correspondence, memoranda, and reports relating to faculty and professional employees no longer associated with Rice University. Includes permanent and temporary appointments.
This record group charts the history of the Student Center Board and the Rice Program Council. There are minutes, calendars, contracts, and event glassware.
These records contain the papers of the Faculty-Student Committee appointed by the Board of Trustees of Rice University to assist in suggesting and screening names of candidates for the university presidency following the resignation of Kenneth Pitzer in August 1968. The papers include correspondence, memos, newsclips, and information on candidates under consideration.
Faculty offprints, reproductions of individual articles published in scholarly journals, written by Rice University professors, with publication dates ranging from 1897 to 2005. The earliest materials were written by Prof. H.A. Wilson, of the Physics department. The bulk of the materials are from 1910-1980.
This record group contains all the records of the Rice University $33 Million Campaign Office. Included are proposals, requests, reports, correspondence, brochures, and newsletters produced during the campaign.
This collection contains records and items related to the Association of Rice Alumni. It includes records and meeting minutes of various alumni committees and boards.
The material in this collection is divided into two series. Series I includes the general files collected by the committee, such as agendas, minutes, advertising, letters to and from candidates, itineraries, and other types of correspondence and files related to committee work. Series II includes the candidate's files listed alphabetically and includes letters, resumes, etc. The original folders were marked with colored dots to indicate the following: Blue – Tier One – CV's received prior to January 1, 1995; Red – Tier Two – CV's received from January 1, 1995 to present; Green – Finalists (see General Correspondence File). This information was added to the archival folders by writing the color(s) of the dots on the front of the folders. Some of the folders had no colored dots and were designated as none of the archival folder.
There was no date indicated as to when the dots were applied. See the Meeting Minutes folder (1.15) for committee's actions in selecting finalists.
This collection includes audio and video related to the daily work of the Office of University Relations. Much of the material was created by Rice University, and in some cases by other Houston entities.
These materials include correspondence, minutes, notes, and other materials related to the Rice University Associate Provost searches conducted in 1986, 1995, and 1996. Some of the materials were created by the search committees in order to conduct the search in each year, while other materials, including resumes, references, and correspondence, were provided by the applicants of each year's search.
Rice University Dean of Social Sciences search records contain documents related to the 1995-1996 and 2006-2006 searches for a new dean of the School of Social Sciences. Applicant materials, committee minutes, and other documents relevant to the search committee are included. Materials from the donation that had mold have been removed from 1995-1996 search files.
Records reflecting the daily business of the Rice University Office of Admissions, including expense reports for faculty travel and for department spending, application records from potential faculty and graduate students, recruiting planning and documentation of incoming students.
These papers contain proposals, grants, contracts, experiments, surveys, publications, notes, newsclippings, photographs, and correspondence related to the Department of Geology between 1951 and 1991.
This collection contains correspondence, proposals, reports, budgets, and other materials related primarily to grants administered by the Dean of Natural Sciences (William E. Gordon) during the 1960s and 1970s.
The collection consists of records of thirteen different student organizations at Rice Institute. The
dates of information differ from organization to organization, the earliest being 1938 and the latest, 1962. Financial records are the most common kind of information. For some of the organizations there are membership lists or members' names in receipt book duplicates. Meeting minutes are included
for some of the organizations, and some include their constitution and by-laws. Records of a few of the organizations include correspondence concerning speakers for meetings.
This collection contains correspondence, departmental records, course preparation materials, and course assistant records relating to Thomas A. Rabson's career as professor of electrical engineering at Rice University. Also included are conference materials, reference materials, energy research studies and reports, and information concerning Dr. Rabson's grant proposals, consultation with energy and electronics corporations and expertise in lasers and ferroelectric thin films.
This collection consists of framed paintings,framed and unframed drawings, prints, sculptures, and other artworks donated to the Woodson Research Center/Rice University archives.
This collection includes two bound volumes of battery records. The letter book in folder 1 consists of copies of Battery General Orders and letters to higher authority concerning personnel matters, requests for supllies and ordnance, as well as reports of the condition of the horses held by the battery. The Company Descriptive Book in folder 2 contains detailed muster / personnel records of all members of the battery as well as lists of the non-commissioned officers, transfers, deaths and deserters.
The Rice University Office of Finance and Administration generated these records from 1938-2010. Most of the records were created during the tenures of Dean W. Currie, vice president of Finance and Administration, and Neill Binford, associate vice president of Finance and Administration. At the time of these records, Finance and Administration included the departments of Facilities and Engineering, the Controller, Human Resources, Administrative Computing, Food and Housing, Office of the Associate Vice President, and the Budget Office. The vice president of Finance and Administration oversaw the infrastructure of the university, the food services in the colleges, the human resouces department and the police department.
The collection consists of scrapbooks, minute books, financial records, and other materials relating to the founding and operation of both the OWLS undergraduate group and the OWLS alumnae group.
The Vice Provost for Research and Graduate Studies search committee, 1995-1996, was chaired by Ken Kennedy. These records reflect the course of the search and his role as chair.
The Office of Alumni Affairs, in association with the Association of Rice Alumni, maintains communication with Rice alumni, encouraging them to stay connected with the University intellectually and socially and to assist in maintaining the welfare of the University. The annual Homecoming and Reunion events are coordinated by a Committee Chairperson, serving on the Association of Rice Alumni Board. The Homecoming and Reunions committee provides events for alumni to connect with each other, oversees volunteers and speakers, and tracks participation levels.
This collection includes photographs from the Office of Resource Development's 2000 fundraising campaign, including the Associates Gala at the Junior League Houston, the Associates Dinner, Keck Hall rededication and the Capital Campaign (Faculty and Staff).
This collection is made up of assorted materials associated with the Institute of Biosciences and Bioengineering. It includes detailed information about the building occupied by the IBB, George R. Brown Hall: the planning, fund raising, donors, and apportioning of space. The collection also includes a twenty-year summary report for the Department of Biochemistry and Cell Biology, ending June 30, 1992. Additionally the collection includes the 1996 final proposal for a National Space Biomedical Research Institute, in which Rice is listed as a consortium member. A VHS cassette recording Charles Duncan and President George Rupp at the Nov. 22, 1988 news conference about dedication of George R. Brown and Alice Pratt Brown Halls is also included. The second of two boxes in the collection contains three large broadcast videocassettes on which the 1994 DeLange conference was recorded. The title of the conference, organized by Rice faculty Larry V. McIntire and Fred Rudolph, is Biotechnology, Science, Engineering, and Ethical Challenges for the 21st Century. The individual distinguished scientists whose presentations are on the tapes are Larry V. McIntire, Michael Shuler, Eric Tomlinson, Anna Marie Skalka, Alex Wlodawer, and Daniel E. Koshland, Jr.
Scope and Content
Records from the Southern Conferences on Women's History of the Southern Association for Women Historians. Predominantly from the conference held at Rice University in Houston, Texas from June 2-5, 1994. Records include planning documents, correspondence, surveys and realia that date from 1989-1997. These include follow up materials from the 2nd annual conference held Chapel Hill, N.C. in 1991 and planning information for the 4th annual conference held in Charleston, S.C. in 1997.
Collection consists mostly of VHS tapes which contain news broadcasts and raw footage covering Rice University events or featuring speakers representing Rice University on various topics. Highlights include snipets on Nanotechnology and Nanotubes, The 2003 College World Series Championship, Terrorism, and International Affairs. Featured speakers include Amb. Edward P. Djerejian, James A. Baker III, Prof. Richard E. Smalley, Prof. Ric Stoll, Assoc. Professor Dan Wallach and Amy M. Jaffe, Associate Director of the Rice Energy Program. The collection also includes 20 VHS tapes of talks given at the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy, 2000-2006.
Approximately 130 pages. The first 80 pages are in Portuguese and cover voyages from Fayal in the Azores to Riga and back to Lisbon, with an additional trip from Fayal to St. Petersburg. The remainder is in English and covers a voyage from Boston to Fayal.
This is a collection of oral history interviews conducted by the Chao Center for Asian Studies at Rice University. This collection includes audio recordings and transcripts of interviews with the following Asian Americans native to Houston: Edward Chen, Esther Quan, Gene L. Lee, Lewis Yee, Jane Gee, George Gee, Viola Chan, Wea Lee, Eugenie Chen, and Hannah Chow. The interviewees include a former rocket scientist and high school chemistry teacher, a founding member of the Chinese American Citizens Alliance, a World War II veteran, and the publisher of a Chinese newspaper in Texas and owner of the first Chinese printing company in Houston. There are currently 147 English language audio interviews in the collection, mostly dating from 2010-2015, with expectation that more new interviews will be added annually.
Includes transcript, consent form, research notes, photographs, and newsclippings.
Includes transcript, consent form, and photographs.
Includes transcript, consent form, and photographs.
Includes transcript, consent form, research notes, photographs, and event program.
Includes transcript, consent form, and research notes.
Includes transcript and audio.
Includes transcript, consent form, and photographs.
Includes transcript, consent form, research notes, and photographs.
Includes transcript, consent form, research notes, and photographs.
Includes transcript, consent form, survey, audio, and photographs.
Includes transcript, consent form, audio, interview questions, questionnaire, and photographs.
Includes transcript,research notes, and questionnaire.
Includes transcription and consent form.
Includes transcript, audio, survey, and resume.
Includes transcript, consent form, audio, and photographs.
Includes transcript, questionnaire, consent form, and audio.
FOlder also contains a packet of clippings and images regarding Chang's architectural accomplishments, tennis champioships, as well as biographical note. An additional volume is "Harry Weese and Associates, Architects Engineers Planners," published circa 1978.
Includes transcript, consent form, audio, and news clippings.
Includes transcript, consent form, and photographs.
Includes transcript, consent form, audio, newsclippings, and photographs.
Includes transcript, consent form, research notes, and audio.
Includes transcript and questionnaire.
Includes consent form, and transcript.
Includes consent form and transcript.
Includes consent form, transcript, and photographs.
Includes consent form, transcript, and Texas State Senate Proclamation No. 1593 honoring Judge Hannah Chow for her service to Houston and Harris County (undated facsimile of document signed by Sen. Rodney Ellis).
Not approved for online publication.
Includes consent form, questionnaire, transcript, photographs.
Includes consent form, transcript, and photographs.
Includes consent form and transcript, but no photographs.
Includes consent form and transcript.
Includes consent form and transcript.
Includes consent form, transcript, and photographs.
Includes consent form, transcript, and photographs.
Also includes event programs and newsclippings featuring Di.
Includes consent form and transcript.
Includes consent form and transcript.
Includes consent form, transcript, photographs, and questionnaire.
Includes consent form, transcript, and photographs.
Includes consent form, transcript, personal documents and photographs.
Includes consent form, but no transcript. Also includes documents such as Vibrant Vitality of Houston business card and brochure (print copy); and News article "Patients get vibe of device", The Hutchison News, March 5, 2006 (print copy).
Includes consent form, transcript, and photographs.
Includes consent form and transcript, as well as Outstanding achievement award newsclipping, 2007, by OCA Houston.
Includes consent form, transcript, photograph, questionnaire, and 2013 Christmas letter.
Includes transcript and consent form.
Includes consent form and transcript.
Includes consent form, transcipt, photograph.
Includes consent form, transcript, resume, photograph.
Includes consent form, transcript, photograph, Quan family tree.
Includes transcript and research notes, but no audio.
Includes consent form, transcript and photographs.
Not approved for online publication.
Includes consent form, transcript and questionnaire.
Includes consent form and transcript.
Includes consent form and transcript.
Includes transcript, consent form, and audio.
Includes transcript, consent form, and photographs.
Includes photographs and transcript.
Includes transcript, consent form, and photographs.
Includes transcript, consent form, and photograph.
Includes transcript, consent form, and photograph.
Includes transcript, consent form, ephemera related to the Alliance of Multicultural affainrs, and photograph.
Includes transcript, consent form, and photograph.
Includes transcript, audio, and photograph.
Includes transcript, consent form, and audio.
Includes transcript, survey, audio, and photograph.
Includes transcript, consent form, research notes, and photograph.
Includes transcript, consent form, and photograph.
Includes consent form, transcript, questionnaire, photographs.
Includes transcript, consent form, and research notes.
Includes transcript, consent form, and photograph.
Includes consent form, transcript and questionnaire.
Includes transcript, consent form, and audio.
Includes consent form, transcript.
Includes transcript, consent form, and Southern News Media Group magazines.
Includes transcript, consent form, research notes, family tree notes, and photograph.
Includes transcript, consent form, and photograph.
Includes transcript and consent form.
Includes transcript, consent form, and audio.
Includes transcript, consent form, and photograph.
Includes transcript, survey, consent form, and photograph.
ZAH. Includes transcript, consent form, and photograph.
ZAH. Includes transcript, consent form, and photograph.
Includes transcript and consent form.
ZAH. Includes transcript, consent form, and photograph.
ZAH. Includes transcript, consent form, and photograph.
Includes transcript, consent form, and photograph.
Includes transcript, consent form, research notes, and photograph.
Includes consent form, transcript, questionnaire.
Includes transcript and consent form.
Includes consent form and transcript.
Includes transcript and consent form.
Includes transcript and photograph.
Includes transcript, research notes, and consent form. No audio is available for this interview.
Includes transcript, survey,photograph, and audio.
Includes transcript, photographs, and consent form.
Includes transcript and audio.
Includes transcript, photographs, and consent form.
Includes transcript,audio, photograph, and survey.
ZAH. Includes transcript, photographs, research notes, and consent form.
Includes transcript, photograph, and consent form.
Includes audio and transcripts.
Includes photograph and consent form.
Includes trancript, audio, survey, photograph, and Holy Rosary Crusade : 25th Anniversary May Crowning, May 28, 2008, Mass program booklet and Souvenir program booklet (Filipino choir featured).
Includes transcript and audio.
Includes transcript, photographs, and consent form.
Includes transcript, consent form and photograph.
Includes transcript, research notes, consent form, and photograph.
ZAH. Includes transcript, research notes, consent form, survey, corespondence, and photograph.
Includes transcript, audio, questionnaire, consent form, and photograph.
Includes consent form, transcript, and photographs. Also includes article "Fires" by Debra Kolah.
Includes consent form, transcript and photographs.
Includes consent form, transcript, photograph, and brief family history document.
Includes consent form, transcript, and photograph.
Includes consent form, transcript, photograph.
Includes consent form, transcript, questionnaire, photograph.
Includes consent form, transcript, interviewee photographs, images of family photographs and documents.
Includes consent form, transcript, questionnaire.
Also includes business brochures and newsclippings.
Includes consent form, transcript, questionnaire, and photograph.
Includes consent form, transcript, questionnaire, interviewee photographs, and images of family photographs.
Includes consent form, transcript, questionnaire, interviewee photographs, and images of family photographs and documents.
Includes consent form, transcript, questionnaire, interviewee photographs, and images of Kim Soo newsclippings and photographs.
Includes consent form, transcript, and questionnaire.
Includes consent form, transcript, questionnaire and photograph.
Includes consent form, transcript, questionnaire, and photographs.
Includes consent form and transcript for 2011 interview. Also donated at the time of that interview were other interview recordings and materials as listed here: Takehara family scrapbook (print from PDF copy); State of Texas certificate commissioning 442nd Regimental Combat Team, World War II, as Honorary Texas Citizens, signed by Texas Gov. John Connally, Oct. 21, 1963; Program for Congressional Gold Medal Ceremony, Houston, TX, Feb. 19, 2012; program for National Japanese American Memorial Foundation Awards Dinner Gala 2009; "Go for Broke" Takehara interview on DVD, undated, untranscribed; WWII 42nd interview on DVD, 2003, untranscribed. Rights to share these interviews publicly online were not expressly included with the donation.
Includes consent form, transcript, questionnaire.
Includes consent form, transcript, questionnaire, student interviewer summary, photograph.
Includes consent form, transcript, questionnaire.
Includes consent form, transcript, and images of family photographs and objects, annotated on the print out.
Includes transcript and audio.
Includes audio, transcript, and photograph.
Includes audio and transcript.
Includes consent form, transcript, and photograph.
Includes consent form and transcript.
Includes audio, transcript, survey, and photograph.
Includes audio and transcript.
Includes consent form, questionnaire, transcript, and research notes.
Includes news article, resume, survey, transcript, and audio.
Includes consent form, transcript, and photograph.
Includes consent form, research notes, transcript, and photograph.
Includes transcript, photographs, consent form, and photographs of family documents, newsclippings, correspondence and publications related to Chinese American Citizens Alliance and the Miss Chinatown competition in Houstion.
Includes consent form and photographs.
Includes transcript, consent form, and photographs.
Includes transcript.
Includes transcript and consent form.
Includes transcript, questionnare, audio, and consent form.
Includes transcript and consent form.
Includes transcript, research notes, questions, and consent form.
ZAH. Includes photographs, transcript, amd research notes.
Also includes awards, certificates, and event programs featuring Pabillano.
Also includes newsclippings.
Includes chapter history (folder 11), miscellaneous activism (folder 12), services provided by JACL (folder 13), miscellaneous administrative records (folder 14), miscellaneous events (folder 15), Abbie Salyers Grub's paper (folder 16), 65th anniversary presentation (folder 17), Texas state board of education (folder 18), tpm (folder 19), responses (folder 20), pictures (folder 21), Japan fest 2008 (folder 22), and Gala 2009 (folder 23).
Also includes commemorative plate inscribed "Tuesday, October 16, 1962, Epicurean Evening, Your Host, Houston Restaurant Association" and is believed to be the plate presented to Albert Gee, who in 1961 was the first the first Asian-American president of the Houston Restaurant Association (HRA). Donated by Dr. Anne Chao, to whom the plate was presented in 2021 by the HRA.
Chungking Restaurant was owned by Jim Wing, who was one of the first Chinese in Houston, arriving circa 1895. The Jim Wing family was part of the Joe family, and Jim Wing helped many Joe family members move to Houston and Texas. Wing owned many restaurants in downtown Houston, 1930s-1940s.
Dimensions 48" (W) x 18" (H) x 3" (T).
Original work stored in Woodson vault.
Folder contains a printed image of the painted work.
The log covers the period February 10, 1827, through November 19, 1828, and contains daily reports at sea and in port. The initial pages, and those for the months of May and June 1827, are missing. Entries indicate that the ship departed from its usual Charleston to Boston route in August 1828 and sailed for New York, then to Vera Cruz, Mexico, arriving there three months later. The partial logbook contains approximately 60 pages and measures 11" x 16.25".
Records of the business of the Rice University Honor Council such as hearings and trail abstracts, as well as documentation of procedural and constitutional revisions.
The collection documents the history of Frank Lee Berry, Jr. and his family. Included are photographs, correspondence, genealogical information, and family records.
Scope and Contents
The Houston ARCH Collection, includes DVDs of oral history interviews, written and electronic transcriptions of the interviews, and research materials including newsclippings related to the interviews and the history of the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community in Houston, Texas.
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), and a draft of a Wikipedia entry
Raw and final edit of interview along with a short performance video
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), written transcript of oral interview
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information and a list of potential questions for the interview
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information, written transcript of interview, and outline for the final paper
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), and background information of interviewee
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), backgrond information of interviewee, and written transcript of the interview
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information of interviewee, and written transcript of the interview
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information on interviewee, written transcript of the interview, and a draft for a wikipedia entry
Interview consisting of segments 1-6
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information on interviewee and written transcript of the interview
Raw and final edit of interview
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information on interviewee, and written transcript of the interview
Raw and final edit of interview
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information on interviewee, potential questions for interview, and written transcript of the interview
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), and written transcript of the interview
Raw footage and final cut of the interview
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed) and written transcript of the interview
Edited and unedited interview footage
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information on interviewee, and written transcript of the interview
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information on interviewee, written transcript of the interview, and wikipedia entry draft
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed) and written transcript of the interview
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information of interviewee, and written transcript of the interview
Raw and final edit of interview
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information on interviewee, and written transcript of the interview
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information on interviewee, and written transcript of the interview
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information on interviewee, written transcript of the interview, and a draft for a wikipedia page
Part 1: blue flashdrive
Part 2: black flashdrive
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information on interviewee, and written transcript of the interview
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information on the interviewee, and written transcript of the interview
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information on interviewee, and written transcript of the interview
Transcript of the oral interview, IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information, and the deed of gift
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information on the interviewee and a draft for a wikipedia page
Raw and final edit of the interview
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information on the interviewee, and written transcript of the interview
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information on interviewee, and transcript notes form the interview
Raw and final edits of the interview
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information on interviewee, and written transcript of the interview
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information on interviewee, and a written transcript of the interview
Raw and final edit of the interview
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information on interviewee, and a written transcript of the interview
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), written transcript of the interview, and the deed of gift
Includes newspaper and magazine articles, and a list of endorsed candidates from the Houston Gay and Lesbian Political Caucus from the 1988 general election
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), written transcript of the interview, list of potential questions to ask during the interview, and a draft for a wikipedia page
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information on the interviewee, and a written transcript of the interview
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information on the interviewee, and a written transcript of the interview
Unedited and edited footage of the interview
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information on the interviewee, and a written transcript of the interview
Video and audio versions of the interview along with the transcript and photos on a separate disk
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), written transcript of the interview, and the deed of gift
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), and transcription notes from the interview
Interview sessions 1-3 and final video on DVD
Written transcriptions of interview sessions 1-3, background information, and the deed of gift
Interview in both audio and video formats
Rice University Media Event Publication Agreement (signed), background information on interviewee, and written transcript of the interview
Article from the Houston Chronicle (online), blog post from Building Alliances, and a paper written by the interviewee titled: Heterosexual Crossdresser's Quality of Relationships with Significant Other, Family, Friends, and Satisfaction With Life
First and second interviews on DVD
Edited video shown at Pride Festival on DVD and a list of images used (in order of appearance)
Transcription of the oral interview, IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information, and potential questions for the interview
Research pertaining to PRIDE, GLBT Political Caucus, and Houston political developments, 1981-2010. Bibliography of research materials and photographs.
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information on the interviewee, and a written transcript of the interview
Interview in both audio and video formats along with the interview transcript and photos on a separate disk
IBR (Institutional Review Board) form (signed)
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), deed of gift, and written transcript of the interview
Edited and unedited footage of the interview on DVD
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information on the interviewee, and a written transcript of the interview
Raw and edited footage of the interview along with an electronic copy of the transcript on DVD
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed) and a written transcript of the interview
Interview separated into two parts on DVD
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information on the interviewee, and a written transcript of the interview
Edited and unedited version of the interview on DVD
IRB (Institutional Review Board) form (signed), background information on the interviewee, and a written transcript of the interview
This collection consists of the official guide and calendar, the Houston Chronicle special convention edition, and numerous give-aways and souvenirs.
Records reflecting the business of the Fondren Library Planning Committee, which explored and planned a redesign of the library at Rice University, 1993-1999. Documents include background readings, consultants' reports, the committee's own reports, development strategy, and versions of plans.
This collection reflects the professional career of David F. Chapman and the several companies he worked for and lead. Items included are project papers, featuring Chapman's work with Gilbane, Mayan, Warrior, and Farnsworth & Chambers. Construction lists of the 1980's, Mayan recommentdation letters from 1975-1986, and completed Texas procects. Interviews, newsclippings, curriculum vitae and company media literature. Historical overview of the companies evolution, and Gilbane's marketing for higher education, data storage, and federal government.
The log reveals the ship's travel from port to port, touching at Calais; Baltimore; Portland; Santiago, Cuba; New York; among others. Its varied cargo included bushels of corn, molasses, sugar, tobacco, etc.
These administrative files of the Rice University Anthropology Department reflect the daily business of the department, including correspondence, conference papers/articles/publications, CVs, research/travel funding requests, student evaluations, hiring and promotional materials, and personnel information. In addition, materials on anthropology syllabi and courses offered are included. This material begins in the 1950s and continues through 2007. Faculty Files are restricted for privacy reasons, due to the inclusion of personnel information. Please contact the Woodson Research Center at woodson@rice.edu for assistance in accessing these materials.
Contents include correspondence of faculty and administration as well as conference papers/articles/publications, CVs, research/travel funding requests, student evaluations, hiring and promotions, and personnel information. These files are under restriction due to private information. Please contact the Woodson Research Center at woodson@rice.edu for assistance in accessing these materials.
This collection contains papers from Ronald Stebbings, former Vice President of Student Affairs. It includes minutes of faculty meetings of the entire university (1969-1985), as well as faculty meetings of the Space Physics and Astronomy program (1971-1985). It also contains various papers relating to the athletic committee (1976-1983), and issues of "Faculty Club Forum," "On Campus," and the Honor System. Also contains a photo directory of of faculty, research associates, students, and staff, as well as various items relating to the Space Physics and Astronomy program.
This collection documents the academic career of Dr. Franz R. Brotzen (1915-2010) of Rice University, who served as Stanley C. Moore Professor Emeritus of Materials Science, as Dean of Engineering and as master at Rice's Jones and Brown colleges.
The bulk of the letters are from Commander Powell in Rio de Janeiro to Commodore Storer, written between July and September of 1849, and concern preparations to carry out his orders to "proceed without delay to the Coast of Africa," and to suppress the slave trade. Powell comments on the ship's condition and the status of provisions, and comments on receipt of the "new guns." In October 1849 Powell reports that "a slaver" had made port northeast of Rio and transferred slaves to a waiting steamer. He also comments briefly on conditions on the Rio de la Plata, and in Montevideo, Uruguay. In addition, the correspondence contains Powell's detailed report on the test comparison of the naval nand 32 pounder guns.
These records include the working files of the Staff Advisory Committee at Rice University, 1992-2010, with such formats as meeting agendas, notes, correspondence and flyers. The files are not complete for this time period, but do offer a representative sample of the work done by this committee. Rice Fest is perhaps the best represented here of the activities programmed by the Staff Advisory Committee.
Awards for staff members of 5 to 40 years of service. Recipients of the 40 years of service this year included: Elizabeth baber, Jim Castaneda, Alan Grob and Walter Isle. A full list of all award recipients is included in the scrapbook.
These records include architectural drawings, renderings and project documentation related to the work of William T. Cannady, ranging in date from 1956-2018.
First Build Design
The collection contains records and printed material on the early land holdings and dealings of William Marsh Rice and the Rice Institute in 45 Texas counties and 4 Louisiana parishes. The collection also contains records and printed material concerning early Rice Institute campus construction, legal matters (including judicial settlements and statements), institutional housekeeping (including receipts and invoices from 1891-1907), and campus area property and construction.
The programs include the names of the opposing institutions, dates of the games, pictures and background of the players
This collection consists of Rice Institute football scrapbooks, correspondence, team photographs, and sports memorabilia.
The collections includes a series of scrapbooks of the activities of Rice alumni and a series of scrapbooks from Rice University departments, Rice-related events, and other materials related to the life of the university. Additional scrapbooks, such as the scrapbooks created by the Literary Societies, can be found in the related record groups.
Barry Talbot graduated from Rice Institute in 1932. Talbot was a senior class representative of the Student Council, a member of the Junior Prom Committee, and a Rice Chronicle correspondent. He was also a member of the Thresher staff, Campanile staff, R and Quill Association, and Writing Club. Consequently, in his scrapbook he collected many newspaper clippings of a wide variety of Rice-related events, such as society and club meetings, visiting guest speakers, sports, the May Fete, and more.
These scrapbook pages contain images of Henderson's time at the Rice Institute, engineering field trips, and work life in and around the Houston Ship Channel. The folder also contains an obituary and other biographical information about Henderson. Includes an autographed photograph of Adriaan Paulen.
Zue Belle Shaw graduated from Rice Institute in 1934. Shaw was a member of the Elizabeth Baldwin Literary Society, Junior Prom Committee, Young Women's Christian Association and Glee Club. She enjoyed following Rice football, filling her scrapbook entirely with newspaper articles and photographs related to the football team. She even included a page with what seems to be the football players' autographs.
Five scrapbooks created during World War II. Many of the creators of the scrapbooks are not identified, but the topics include U.S. Occupation of Japan, parachute training, European reconnaissance photographs taken by Marjor W.T. Eldridge, III; and Munich after World War II.
The papers contain documents, photographs and printed material which document the career of James R. Sims, who taught civil engineering at Rice Institute (later Rice University) beginning in 1942 as an instructor, to becoming the Herman and George R. Brown Chair of Civil Engineering until his retirement in 1987. He then served as the Herman and George R. Brown Professor Emeritus of Civil Engineering from 1987 until his death in 2009.
This collection consists of photographs and printed materials concerning the Panama Canal and the Isthmus of Panama, collected by William E. Tragsdorf. Series I, the photographs, is made up of three small albums, 5-1/2 x 7 inches, and sixteen large, mostly 8 x 10 inch, loose photographs, all black and white. The small albums are numbered 1, 2, and 6 and are marked with particular dates in 1905 or 1906. Most of the small photographs are marked "W.E.T.," indicating that they were taken by Tragsdorf. Two that lack this mark may be of the photographer himself. The photographs in these albums, sixteen in each, are scenes of places and people in Panama that give an idea of how the area looked before the canal was built. The men pictured in business attire are obviously individuals who came to work or visit during the construction. Most of the 8 x 10 photographs document stages of the project. Those that are dated are marked 1908, 1910, 1911, 1922, and 1933. Series II, a scrapbook, contains material collected, apparently by Tragsdorf, in keeping with his lifelong interest in the Isthmus of Panama. The earliest document is a photocopy of a fourteen-page pamphlet titled "A Few Words for the Traveller over the Isthmus of Panama," apparently published in 1851 with a topographic map of the area. A second photocopy is of a seventeen-page narrative by Julius H. Pratt titled "To California by Panama in '49." "49" in the title refers to the 1849 gold rush. Next are eleven 8-1/2 x 10-1/2 inch color plates showing ships passing through the completed canal and scenes around it. Another item is a twenty-two-page pamphlet, 7-3/4 x 8-7/8 inches, titled "Following the Floating Road: One of the World's Greatest Travel Thrills." One of its photographs is dated January 1933. The final item is an article from The New York Times Magazine of August 12, 1934, titled "In 1934 as in 1914, the Canal is an Epic. "The materials in the Tragsdorf Panama Canal Zone Photograph Collection reflect not only fascination with and appreciation of the engineering feat that the building of the canal was, but also a deep interest in the history of attention paid to the Isthmus of Panama. Along with photographs taken by Tragsdorf himself are a photocopy of an 1851 text written for travelers over the Isthmus and another of a narrative about going to California in 1849 by way of Panama. Altogether the collection documents an individual's lifelong fascination with being part of the work that transformed the Canal Zone into the pathway of the Panama Canal.
This collection consists of postcards featuring Rice Institute and Rice University, gathered from various sources. The largest segment is an album in which are mounted 35 3-1/2" x 5-1/2" color scenes identified by the donor as the first cards made following the change of Rice's name from Institute to University. They were all made after July 1, 1960 and most in 1961. This album was a gift to Rice from Damon D. Hickey, class of 1964. The remainder of the collection consists of loose cards of varying sizes and dates. Most are 3-1/2" x 5-1/2", but the most recent are 4" x 6". The latter feature images of buildings "inside" contemporary graphic lettering. The smaller scenic cards have labels identifying buildings at either Rice Institute or Rice University. Three cards are not pictorial of Rice, two of which report a football score (Rice 7, A&M 6), and one which juxtaposes images of the mascots of Rice and the University of Texas. The date of the earliest card in the collection is identifiable by a 1913 postmark.
Records of the Gilbert & Sullivan Society, a group of Faculty members and their wives who staged a number of productions in the 1950s and 1960s. The records are made up laregly of tapes and publications of these productions, and dates run from 1950-1966. Materials include 15 reel tapes; programs; newspaper clippings; 1 poster; LP records; notices; scenery plans.
Correspondence, photographs, architectural drawings, notes, syllabi and ephemera created or collected by Anderson Todd, FAIA, during the course of his academic career at Rice University and his architectural practice in Houston, Texas.
2 unedited WAV audio files recorded as part of a AIA Historic Resource Committee and University of Houston William R. Jenkins Architecture and Art Library Oral History project: Building Houston.
This collection consists of the World War II Air Medal awarded posthumously to 2nd Lt. Thomas E. Bartmess, in its embossed black leather case marked "Air Medal."
The document is an instrument entered in the records of Houston County, Texas, authorizing that all the personal property belonging to one Samuel A. Burton and all the property real and personal owned jointly by David L. and Samuel A. Burton be sold to the highest bidder at a public sale to take place on June 3, 1851, at the courthouse door in Crockett, Texas. Content on the first of the two pages ends with a statement that John I. Burton did sell, at the specified time and place, to the highest bidder, "the following described property belonging to said estate: viz. "The second of the two pages lists property, including 430 acres of land, eleven enslaved persons (identified by name, age, and gender), fifty head of hogs, and various pieces of equipment. The document concludes with the statement that the listed property was bought by David L. Burton for $3500.
The Charles W. Duncan, Jr. business papers include correspondence, speeches and writings, memoranda, minutes, reports, studies, printed matter, photographs, memorabilia, newsclippings, and bound volumes. The papers are divided into four series covering the periods Duncan was head of Duncan Foods Company and president of Coca-Cola Co., 1958-1996; member and chair of Rice University's Board of Trustees, 1972-1996; and Deputy Secretary of U.S. Department of Defense and Secretary of the Department of Energy, 1977-1981. The fifth series includes drafts of his book, Three lives: a memoir published in 2013.
Scope and Content
This collection is a subset of a wider gathering of Roy M. Huffington's personal and professional papers. The bulk of the materials are aerial intelligence photographs from Huffington's service as a Photographic Interpretation Officer. Subjects include ships, aircraft, geography, and combat. A significant portion of the records pertain superficially to Huffington's service aboard the USS Hornet from early 1944 until the end of the war under Admiral "Jocko" Clark. These materials include photos and ephemera related to the Hornet along with its crew, deck logs, correspondence. Additionally there are books and manuscripts collected by Huffington. Other records include Huffington's personal correspondence with family and loved ones during his naval service, his official Navy records and correspondence, materials related to various veteran organizations and clubs, including the US Navy League, the US Navy Memorial Foundation, US Navy Photographic Intelligence veterans, and the USS Hornet Club. There is also a small assortment of book manuscripts, articles, and other material reflecting Huffington's continued interest in the US Navy during WWII.
This collection consists of a letter written by the mother of Orlando L. Poole on August 2, 1839, to her son and a letter written by Poole to his sister-in-law Mrs. Nancy Parting on September 25, 1854.
There is a typed transcript of each letter.
This collection contains the personal files of native Houstonian Gertrude Barnstone, including information on her careers in politics, social activism, education, and art. Series I includes newsclippings, brochures, reports, campaign realia, and other materials related to Barnstone's involvement in local, state, and national politics. Series II primarily includes materials related to Barnstone's activism during her five year tenure on the HISD School Board from 1964-1969 and her role as producer of the educational children's program "Sundown's Treehouse" from 1970-1973. Included are brochures, newsclippings, articles, awards, scripts, and other materials. Series III is divided into three subseries. Subseries A contains general files on Gertrude Barnstone's career in art and the Houston art community, including newsclippings, exhibition invitations and programs, awards, correspondence, and other materials. Subseries B contains photographs of Barnstone sculptures spanning her entire career as well as photographs of Barnstone herself and documentation of events at which she was honored for her diverse pursuits. Subseries C contains her personal sketchbooks and loose sketches of ink drawings and watercolors. Likewise, the oversize materials consist of sketchbooks and loose drawings, as well as campaign posters, photographs and magazines. 
The material in this collection consists of papers from the files of Andre M.G. Bourgeois, Professor of Romance Languages, at Rice University, concerning the life of Rene Boylseve, with particular reference to poems, written by him to Betty Halperine during the World War I. Correspondents include Betty Halperine (Rene Boylesve's mistress 1914-1926), Jeanne Armand Calliat, and Marie Mors-Boylesve (sister of Rene Boylseve).
Donated by active Republicans Dr. and Mrs. Edward C.M. Chen, these club records show the activities of the Braes Republican Women's Club in Houston, such as meeting minutes and detailed scrapbooks featuring photographs of members and various events. The period of time covered by this material includes Dr. Chen's term of service as Harris County Republican Party Chair. Dr. and Mrs. Chen both appear in this collection, which was maintained by Mrs. Chen. (3 boxes)
Small broadside written by U.S. Representative Edith Nourse Rogers articulating an appeal to women voters to use their votes to "stabilize...this extraordinary era of experimental administration under which we have been living during the past four years."
The Chinese American Citizens Alliance records contain documents and artifacts relating to the CACA, at the national and Houston levels, as well as personal papers of Edward K.T. Chen and other various papers on Asian and Chinese Americans.
Also includes Proceedings for 1967.
Images of C.A.C.A. Houston Lodge officers, leaders and members at official events and social occasions. Albert and Jane Gee, Women's Auxiliary, Grand Lodge President Francis Louie, Grand Lodge President Wilbur Woo. Also includes special guests Miss Chinatown USA, Connie Chung, Miss China, Miss Texas, and others.
Specific program event dates include: 1971, 1972, 1973, 1974, 1975, 1976, 1980, 1981, 1982, 1983, 1984
Specific program event dates include: 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989
Specific program event dates include: 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1996
Specific program event dates include: 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003
Specific program event dates include: 2005, 2006, plus Houston Southwest Chinatown Guide featuring Miss Chinatown winners 2004-2006.
Specific program event dates include: 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2014, 2015. Also includes Miss Chinatown USA pageant program for 2015, and printed slideshows of Miss Chinatown Houston images 1971-2009.
First certificate of merit awarded to a woman by C.A.C.A. Template includes wording describing "his" meritorious service since there had been no female recipients previously.
Collection of trophies won by the Houston Lodge CACA, as well as the Women's Auxiliary Houston Lodge CACA.
This collection consists of hotel memorabilia and includes menus, drink lists, advertising material, and stationery. Included are a 1913 dinner plate, pieces of additional china and silverplate.
This collection consists of non-academic papers of Dr. Lynne Huffer that reflect her committee activities while she was at Rice from 1998 to 2005. Appointed as a member of the French Department and Director of the Program for the Study of Women and Gender, she was active on several committees formed to improve working conditions or the quality of campus life at Rice. The first of these was an ultimately successful campaign to persuade the university administration to allow benefit coverage for domestic partners of employees as well as employees and their families. Also included are papers relating to campus turmoil surrounding head football coach Ken Hatfield, following a homophobic statement he made to one of his student players which was quoted in The Chronicle of Higher Education as well as the local press.
The papers include results of a survey on the campus climate at Rice, especially regarding women, as well as records of Dr. Huffer's participation when President Gillis asked her to be on the President's Council on the Campus Climate for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgender individuals.
Finally are papers recording the work of the 2003-04 ad hoc committee for on-site childcare at Rice.
This collection documents the business history of the Roy M. Huffington, Inc., also known as Huffco. There are photos, correspondence files, videos, as well as awards and speeches that Roy M. Huffington gave while he served as CEO and president of the company. Most of the information highlights the Badak liquified natural gas plant, founded by Huffco Inc. in early 1972. Series I: Indonesia joint venture, Badak, and LNG includes photos and correspondence files detailing the establishment of the Badak plant. Subcommittee minutes include committee, the LNG expansion coordinating committee, and the exploration subcommittee. Series II: Audio-Visual showcases in photographs, audio, and video Roy Huffington as business man, friend, and colleague. Some of the files deal with: work anniversaries, professional photographs, and plant construction and design. Series III: LNG projects captures locations and projects that Huffco was interested in and or involved with. This series is mainly text files. Series IV: Correspondence is composed of correspondence that was discussed between the company and other entities/ parties. The correspondence files that are particularly interesting are the ones on Interferon Foundation. This Foundation was one that dealt with a trial drug on cancer. Series V: Addendum is rich in photographs. There are photos of Roy M. Huffington and some significant dignitaries including: George W. Bush senior and Colin Powell. In late 2019 additional collecting and processing produced an additional four series. In 2020 and 2021 a final round of collecting and processing produced a final addendum of materials largely focusing on research materials and highlighting RMHI's domestic start in the United States.
Contains one master mp4, one access mp4, and digitization reports. Video has no sound.
Contains one master mp4, one access mp4, and digitization reports.
Contains one master mp4, one access mp4, and digitization reports.
Contains one master mp4, one access mp4, and digitization reports.
Contains one master mp4, one access mp4, and digitization reports.
Contains one master mp4, one access mp4, and digitization reports.
Well numbers in this box include 24, 34, 39, 41, 43, 45, 47, 85-87, 98, 100, 116, 133, 135, 136, and 140.
This box contains materials from the following areas: Badak, Balikpapan, Bebula/Bebulu, Bulu Bambagan, Djambu, Experimental, Interior, Mahakam, Mentawir, Pamaguan, Prangat, Saka Kanan, Sanga-Sanga, Semberah, Tengin, and West Recon.
This collection consists of a full World War II, U.S. Army enlisted uniform, minus boots. In addition there are patriotic cloth banners and a matchbook cover from the Houston Stage Canteen. Photographs were donated electronically and are accessible online at https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/78768.
This collection consists of correspondence, personal records, photographs, genealogy books, e-mails, audio and visual materials, other books, memorabilia, and ephemera. Three generations are represented, particularly in the correspondence and photographs. The extensive correspondence portion is made up of letters of family members, friends, and business associates. Personal records include estate documents of various family members. Also included are business correspondence and publications about J. S. Cullinan's several oil companies, as well as material related to James Rorick Cravens and Cravens, Dargan, and Company. The photographs are comprised of both family photographs at home and pictures taken in various vacation settings in both the U.S. and abroad.
Box 40 contains Audio/Visual materials made by the family, including 8mm films, VHS tapes, and audio tapes described at the item level.
This collection consists of the physical materials that are represented digitally in the Travelers in the Middle East Archive (TIMEA), a collection created to make possible the study of Western interactions with the Middle East, particularly travel to Egypt in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. The materials are of diverse types: images in the forms of post cards, photographs, and stereograph films; articles, pamphlets, and travel guidebooks; maps, and souvenirs.
This series consists of 144 items in addition to a 36-page leather-bound album with pages filled with small black and white prints. Of these there is random labeling, e.g. "Heliopolis," "on the Nile," "modern Cairo" (with automobile resembling 1930's design).
41 of the loose photographs are approximately 5"x7" and contain images of buildings, architectural details, statues, and a few people.
70 are approximately 4"x6", also images of buildings, decorative elements, and people.
There are 4 photocards of items at the Musée de Boulaq.
From a set labeled "20 Cairo Snaps," there are 6 labeled 2"x3"black and white photos.
Finally, there are 23 of a 25-photocard set titled Monuments Choisés de Musée de Boulaq" with Texte Explicatif dated 1881.
In addition to 118 stereographs of Egyptian subjects and scenes, there are 71 of other locations, primarily European and American.
This series contains 315 postcards of Egyptian scenes and subjects. 157 are loose, 152 are in labeled sets ranging in size from 4 to 24, and 6 are larger than standard size.
There are 8 items in this series, the longest of which is an undated 9-3/16"x5-13/16" booklet of black and white photographs titled Souvenir of Cairo. Another of the items is a photograph-illustrated engagement book style calendar titled Egypt 1958.
There are 20 items in this series. 8 are short publications. 5 objects include a bronze commemorative medal; a pair of 45-rpm vinyl discs with Sono Cairo and Arabic writing on the jacket; 2 3"x5" fabric leaves, one with the Egyptian flag, and the other, "Abbas Hilmi, Khedive, Egypt"; a fringed silk "God Save the King" scarf; and an 8"x5" flannel Turkey-Egypt flag.
The other 7 items include a United Arab Republic postage first day of issue cover from 1958, a bond certificate of the Land Bank of Egypt dated April 17, 1905, and a card game titled Egyptian Trivia.
There are 3 maps: an 1859 hand colored city map of Cairo; an 8-1/2"x11" black and white annotated map of Cairo; and a 7"x9" black and white annotated map of Cairo and the pyramids of Gizeh. 12 items are included among the oversize printed and photographic materials: 3 are color lithographs of Egyptian scenes. There are a fifteen-page portfolio of black and white photographs from the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition and a black and white page from Scientific American Nov. 16, 1895, with photos of the Atlanta Exposition. Also from the 1893 Columbian Exposition is a page of black and white photos of costumed participants. There are 3 sepia photographs of Cairo buildings. There are 2 large black and white photos on photographic paper, one of Cairo and pyramids from the air, and the other of the Midway and Tower in Streets of Cairo. Finally is the Oct. 1929 issue of Travel with the cover design titled "In Old Cairo."
The Harold Hyman oral history interviews is a collection of oral history interviews conducted by Dr. Chandler Davidson, featuring audio recordings and a transcript of interviews with Dr. Harold Hyman on his experiences of service in the Marines during World War II. The interviews were held on February 10, 2012 and April 18, 2012.
The records contain correspondence, scrapbooks, newsclippings regarding activities, programs from plays performed by the society, as well as correspondence and directories from the alumnae group.
The G. King Walters academic service papers represent Walters' participation on committees and task forces at Rice University. Walters graduated from Rice Institute in 1953 with a degree in physics. He was hired by Rice as a Physics professor in 1963. Walters remained at Rice through retirement in 1999 and beyond, advancing through the professorial ranks to chairman of the physics department, assistant dean of natural sciences, and dean of natural sciences.
The collection consists of meeting notices that give the dates of the meetings and in most cases list the expected speaker and topic. In addition there are two books of meeting minutes that detail the activities of the Society.
This collection consists of records of the activities and the membership of the Rice University Business
and Professional Women during the years 1986 through 1995. Included are the constitution, meeting
announcements, information about outreach projects, directories, and newsletters.
The records contain correspondence, ledgers, information about events, alumnae directories, alumnae newsletters, and scrapbooks.
This collection contains materials collected by the history committee of the Hispanic Association for Cultural Enrichment at Rice (HACER) to document the history of Hispanics at Rice University. Series I contains written biographical and autobiographical material of Hispanic alumni as well as photographs, newsclippings, memorabilia, rosters, and information on alumni activities in the early 2000s. Series II contains information on events and activities of HACER and the Hispanic community of Greater Houston, including newsletters and publicity materials. Series III contains primarily audio and video interviews of Hispanic alumni and their experiences at Rice during the 1920's-1950's. Portions of this collection were received from Hispanic students of Rice from the 1940's and 1950's in response to a 2001 written invitation from HACER to write and/or tape record their experiences at Rice, while information from the 1920's and 1930's was largely obtained working with the Niño and Gonzales families.
Ecology and Environmental Biology Department and Biology Department files documenting daily routines of the department, specific faculty members' memos, and graduate student recruitment and admissions. Includes Annual Reports from 1983 to 1999 and 2002 to 2003 and Budget Reports 1989 to 1996 and 1999 to 2000. Changes in the department are well documented, showing the transition from Biology to Ecology and Environmental Biology, renovations of M.D. Anderson Labratory, Space Surveys, Office Relocations, and memos on the Biological Prairie and Aviary at Rice University.
These records reflect the court proceedings of and alumni and public response to Rice Institute's Charter trial of 1964 and later appeals and judgments. The 1964 lawsuit was brought by the Rice Institute trustees seeking to alter the Institute's original charter to allow admission of students of color and to enable the school to charge tuition. Additional changes to the charter in 1982 and 1998 are also documented here. Formats include legal documents, notes, correspondence, newsclippings, and press releases.
Clark P. Read's academic papers include an extensive amount of correspondence, organized by name of recipient and sender,during his time at UCLA and Johns Hopkins University, 1954 to 1959. The collection also includes his personal research notes and lab data between the years 1952 and 1971. Topics covered in his research notes include, but are not limited to, his work in parasitology and worms. The collection also includes some of Read's collected publications.
The Dean of Continuing Education Records contain materials related to the Dean of Continuing Education, specifically Mary McIntire. These records consist of financial statements, blueprints, images, proposals, correspondence, student publications, pamphlets, and surveys. The records begin in 1987 and continue through 2001, with the bulk of the information starting in the early 1990s.
These papers contain letters, e-mails, lectures, pamphlets, notes, and administrative papers relating to the Academic career of Gale Stokes from 1965 to 2012.
Committee records, manuscript collections, print and digital images, and book reviews document the process undertaken by the Rice Historical Society to complete the publication of Rice University: One Hundred Years in Pictures. Of particular interests are the versions of the manuscripts through the editing process and digital copies of images used, and not used, in the book.
The papers include posters made for the History 251 class in the spring of 2012 about life in Rio de Janeiro.
The collection is composed of documents, photographic material, and electronic media that document the activities before, during, and after the DeLange conferences. The materials are in good condition and include correspondence, conference materials, marketing materials, reports, photographic material, and audio, visual, and electronic media.
Publications by Jorge Awapara, arranged in order chronologically.
This collection consists of materials that record the planning, preparation, and correlated activities of the 1990 Economic Summit of Industrialized Nations on the campus of Rice University. It contains the records and materials kept by Sally M. McKeag, who served as the site director for the event. These include the budget, schedules, descriptions of building modifications, the delegate packet, guidebooks, a press packet, and correspondence, as well as items as detailed as the comprehensive list of equipment needed.
This collection consists of materials related to the Rice Owl Band, Jazz Ensemble, Rice Symphonic Band, and Marching Owl Band (MOB). This includes annual reports, correspondence, financial information, handbooks, newsletters, scripts, newsclippings, performances, photographs, recordings, memorabilia, and uniforms.
Oral history interviews and research materials dating from 1975-1978 related to Fredericka Meiners' book, A History of Rice University: The Institute Years, 1907-1963, which was commissioned by the Rice Historical Commission.
This collection includes original audiotapes, transcripts of selected interviews, related correspondence, documents, typescripts, and notes, and a digitized version of the audiotapes (created 2003 by the generosity of the Rice Historical Society). A small amount of office files for the Rice Historical Commission reflect the early activities and goals of the Commission during the dates 1975-1978.
This collection consists of the personal and academic papers of Mary Fosselman. There are diaries that she kept while she attended Milby High School, the Rice Institute, and Houston Business College. The diaries also document her first two jobs in Houston. Her diaries also include ephemera like football scorecards and theater programs. Her academic papers include her notes, tests, and assignments in high school, at the Rice Institute, in education courses at the University of Houston, and the Houston Business College. There is also some correspondence, a diploma, and a graduate photograph.
This collection consists of five series, including academic materials, correspondence, course materials, publications, and student work. Of the five, Kobayashi's publications make up the largest part of the collection.
The Student Association Records consist of a variety of material related to the Rice University Student Association. These records include meeting minutes, correspondence, memos, constitution and bylaws, financial documents, floor plans, reports, employee contracts, proposals, and student publications. The material begins in 1918 and continues through 2013, with the bulk of the information starting in the early 1960s.
Files containing information on blanket taxes, Hedgehopper, election guidelines, logos, legislation, club constitutions, and university standing committee minutes.
PDF files contain information documenting the 2009-2010 Student Association term.
PDF and jpeg files contain information documenting the 2010-2011 Student Association term.
PDF files contain information documenting the 2011-2012 Student Association term.
PDF files contain information documenting the 2012-2013 and 2013-2014 Student Association term.
PDF files contain information documenting the 2012-2013 and 2013-2014 Student Association term.
PDF, JPEG, MP4, and PNG files contain information documenting the 2014-2015 Student Association term.
PDF, JPEG, HTML, PNG, and MP4 files contain information documenting the 2015-2016 Student Association term.
PDF, JPEG, HTML, and PNG files contain information documenting the 2016-2017 Student Association term.
PDF, JPEG, PNG, HTML, and MP4 files contain information documenting the 2017-2018 Student Association term.
PDF, GIF, HTML, JPG, MP4, M4A, and M4V files contain information documenting the 2018-2019 Student Association term.
This collection consists of materials related to the participation of women and minority faculty in the departments of science, technology, engineering, and math at Rice University. The grant was awarded in 2006 to last for five years. Included in the collection are papers from the process of applying for the grant, lists of faculty members who carried out the work that was promised, articles collected during their research, results of comparing Rice to the professoriate at large in gender and ethnic diversity, data pertaining to salary differences by gender, and survey information concerning campus climate. Also included are planning and output information from a meeting with the External Advisory Committee at the end of the first year, along with the recommendations that came from this meeting. There are also CD's and DVD's containing a W.E.P. Workshop; the April 4, 2007 Symposium of the Dean of Engineering; the ADVANCE External Advisory Committee meeting, May 17-18, 2007; and three presentations by Virginia Valian on Sept. 10, 2008: "Gender schemas and the Accumulation of Advantages," "Power and Politics in Your Department," and "Recruitment and Retention."
The collection consists of records of the Theta Chapter of the National French Honor Society, Pi Delta Phi, at Rice University, established in 1930. A leather-covered loose leaf album holds membership and financial records from 1930 through 1971. Similar records from 1972 through 2000 are contained in labeled folders. Also included are initiation programs and records of donations to the André Bourgeois Pi Delta Phi Award fund established with memorial gifts at his death in 1994.
This collection consists of records documenting intramural athletic activities at Rice University from 1939 through 1995. Particularly the records from 1952 on provide a detailed picture of how intramural activities were organized, the variety of sports represented, and the scope of student participation. Included are rules pertaining to eligibility, tips for college sports representatives, samples of hand-outs listing the activities offered, annual picnic or barbeque invitations, bracket diagrams showing how tournaments were organized, listings of competition results, newsclippings from the Thresher, and for some years, photographs of teams.
These records contain programs and information packets from the formal opening of the Rice Institute, October 10-12, 1912.
This collection consists of papers recording the work of the Rice Faculty Committee on the Undergraduate Curriculum. The timespan represented is 1966 through 1990, but not every year in the period is represented, and content varies from year to year. There are Committee membership lists for the thirteen-year period 1966 to 1979 and meeting minutes for the eleven years 1967 to 1978. These records are also in the forms of reports, memoranda, and correspondence. Topics covered include general graduation requirements for undergraduate degrees, such as the foreign language requirement, the English competency exam, distribution requirements, and construction of minors. Many particular departments are represented as issues arose concerning requirements involving their specific courses. Debate within the faculty about how Rice should treat presentation by incoming students of Advanced Placement courses is covered. There is information about recommendations for student advising. Results of evaluating particular programs are included, as are records of the major curriculum revision project that culminated in 1970. Finally, the collection includes response forms from faculty to a survey concerning the number of hours judged appropriate for a Rice degree. The date of this survey is not apparent, but the names of faculty represented suggest that it took place in the sixties.
Held every year since 1984 immediately before the Economic Summit of Industrialized Nations, The Other Economic Summit (TOES), held in Houston July 6-8, 1990, hosted representatives of the world's poorest peoples. This alternative summit focuses on environmental, social, and alternative approaches to economic problems. Collected by one of the principal local organizers, the collection includes background, organizational and press materials, and publications generated by the Summit.
This record group charts the history of Rice PRIDE through correspondence, minutes, special projects, and memorabilia.
This collection consists of records having to do with the study of women at Rice. The earliest item is a 1975 speech by sociology Professor Chandler Davidson. The beginnings of Women's Studies as an academic discipline at Rice are recorded in documents dating from 1985 through 1990. Materials from the 1996 Rice Women's Conference are included. One aspect of this event was an oral history project which yielded 28 audio cassette-recorded interviews that are a part of the collection. Materials from a similar conference that took place in 1999 are also included, as is information for planning a subsequent women's conference.
This collection consists of the records of former Brown College Masters, starting with Franz and Frances Brotzen.
This collection contains correspondence and lectures from members of the Department of Chemical Engineering faculty.
The Bobby Joe Moon family genealogy collection contains immigration documents, photographs, newsclippings, notes, maps and more which document the Moon family's immigration to the US from China, and their life in the States since then.
These records mostly include the photographs and negatives taken by "The Rice Thresher's" photographers, as well as research and issues pertaining to Rice University's student newspaper.
This collection consists of seven series, which contain audio from performances by the Montrose Singers, copies of programs from various shows, photographs of the group, and a brief history of the group. More specifically, included is a timeline of the group's performances, interview transcripts from the Gay Music Heritage show in 2010, and an account of the problems faced by the choir in the late 1980s. Additionally this series contains audio from concerts performed alongside HeartSong, a Houston lesbian chorus, and programs from those events. All audio, visual, and textual media exist in digital formats. Please Series VIII for more information.
This series contains a complete list of directors, a written history of the chorus by a member, and a timeline of performances.
This series contains audio and programs for performances by the Montrose Singers under the direction of Andy Mills, the first director of the group.
This series contains audio and programs for performances by the Montrose Singers under the direction of Rex Gillet.
HeartSong was a predominately lesbian Houston chorus that performed with the Montrose Singers in the early 90s and disbanded in 1995. This series includes audio files, images, and documents relating to the Montrose Singers' shared performances with HeartSong.
This series contains recordings, images, and interview transcripts from the Houston Gay Men's Chorus' performance in the 2010 Queer Music Heritage Show.
This series contains photos of members, tape covers, and programs throughout the history of the Montrose Singers/Gay Men's Chorus.
Each program folder in this series contains scans of individual pages from the program for the respective concert.
Still images (jpg), audio (mp3), and text files (pdf) representing the work and history of the Montrose Singers/Gay Men's Chorus and HeartSong.
The Fred C. Alter papers contain correspondence, memorabilia, Rice notebooks, a personal scrapbook, photographs, and material related to the Robert P. Quin Award. Alter was a Rice Institute almunus and World War II veteran.
These records mostly include the photographs and negatives taken by Rice News photographers, as well as digital image files and copies of individual newspapers.
Photographs and negatives include: William Broyles, Anita K. Jones, James R. Pomerantz, Mike Meyers, Caroline Garcia, Mary Brown, Paul Harcombe, and Elgene Box.
Photographs and negatives include: Beth Shapiro, Maryana Iskander, Christy Hard, Lisa Jones, Sheikh Hussein A. Al-Banawi, Malcolm Gillis, Lia Unrau, and Lisa Nutting.
Photographs and negatives include: Willy Zwaenepoel, Ken Hatfield, Rape Aggression Defense Systems, Grand Organ in the Edyth Bates Old Recital Hall, Rice Owls football team, O-Week, and the Marching Owl Band.
Photographs, negatives, and slides include: Roger Penrose, Michael Novak, Nancy Boothe, Steve Sutton, Jason Hafner, Andreas Thess, Nanotechnology, and Shannon Brown.
Photographs and negatives include: Mary Voswinkel, David Newman, Stephen Acker, Ray Scholton, David Sedmak, Alvin Jones, Tina McDuell, John Sprague, Deborah Washington, Les Hulsey, Jim Baylor, Steve Cox, Randy Hulet, Aileen Langston, Malcolm Gillis, Don Turley, Bobby May, Felicia Cavallini, and Olivier Olivier by Agnieszka Holland.
Photographs and negatives include: Chandler Davidson, Sally Shelton, Norman Hackerman, Malcolm Gillis, Phillip A. Griffiths, Katherine E. Collins, Sgt. Willie Anderson, and the "Seductive Matter" exhibit at Rice University Gallery.
Photographs and negatives include: Roger Penrose, Paul Engle, Meg Grulee, B.B. King, Michael Hunt, Zenaido Camacho, Joan Strassman, Malcolm Gillis, and Dan Morales.
Photographs and negatives include: Families' Weekend, "Citta Aperta-Open City" exhibit by Luciano Rigolini in Farish Gallery, Harold Hyman, Gale Stokes, Albert Van Helden, Bob Stein, Pierre Stoot and the Zydeco Dots, and the Shepherd School Marimba Quartet.
Photographs and negatives include: Monica Martinez, Computational Engineering building construction, George Hirasaki, Robert Szafranski, Douglas Lindblad, John Clark, Scottie McDonald, Irie Time, David Queller, Elisabeth Arevalo, Joan Strassman, Joe Davidson, Carlos Garcia, Rice Club Cricket team, Darra Keeton, Malcolm Gillis, and Toshiyuki Kono.
Photographs and negatives include: Kuiper Airborne Observatory event at the Museum of Natural Science, Y. David Chung's "Turtle Boat Head," Dale Sawyer, NASA images, and Department of Geology and Geophysics images.
Photographs and negatives include: Steve Sutton, Brian Huberman, James A. Baker III, Linda Cooper, Mona Hicks, Catherine McKay, Minerva Garcia, Norberto Codina Boeras, Rice Memorial Center golden trophy cabinet, Student Center lounge, The Oil Makers by Jeffrey Share, and Mindy Vanderford.
Photographs and negatives include: Bowen Loftin, Homi Bhabha, Elizabeth Burr, James Carson, Hannu Miettinen, Bruce Knuteson, Emily Meyer, Peter Rogers, Janet Martin, Lin Yue, Malcolm Gillis, Paul Albright, Susan Bischoff, Cynthia Allshouse, and Dianne Bynum.
Photographs and negatives include: Steve Sutton and Renae Scott.
Photographs and negatives include: Roberto Rossellini's "Voyage to Italy."
Photographs and negatives of the Baker Conference Commemorative Issue include: Malcolm Gillis, George H.W. Bush, James A. Baker III, and Colin Powell.
Photographs include: Jon Decoteau and Michael Carroll.
Photographs and negatives include: Rice Owls football, Rice Homecoming, Erich Lethmeyer, Ken Whitmire, King Hill, Dicky Maegle, Rice Owls cheerleaders, Rice architecture students in at the house of Carlos Raul Villanueva, Nafis Sadik, Malcolm Gillis, Zenaido Camacho, Houston-area Hispanic Business magazine's top 500 list luncheon, and the "Explosion of Chemistry" Owlchemy show.
Photographs and negatives include: Shengyun Qiu, Malcolum Gillis, Martha Wong, and Greg Yerington.
Photographs and negatives include: Lucy Hernandez, John Gomez, Sarah Marsh, Sujata Mody, Patricia Martin, Allison Dubinsky, Jennifer Tucker, Gary Denmon, Computational Engineering building construction, Glenn C. Loury, Rice University basketball, Malcolm Gillis, and the Black Student Association vigil for Martin Luther King, Jr.
Photographs and negatives include: J. Fred Duckett, Baudine Duckett, and the drill ship JOIDES Resolution.
Photographs and negatives include: "An Caoin Ardaigh" Rice University Art Gallery installation by Michael Shaughnessy, Glenn C. Loury, Lee P. Brown, Samitra Seals, Maryana Iskander, Dean Currie, Tara Long, and the Black Student Association vigil for Martin Luther King Jr.
Photographs and negatives include: Susan McIntosh, Roderick McIntosh, the Rice Archaeology Laboratory, Pol D. Spanos, Julia Amborski, the Go Texan Committee annual chili cookoff, Roger Labojasky, Mo Labojasky, Steve Matthews, Allen Ovum, Gary Cameron, Catherine Keneally, Marion Hicks, and Cornelius James.
Photographs and negatives include: Vanessa Redgraves, Jon Weisheit, Rice Women "Celebrations, Challenges, Possibilities" Conference, Pol Spanos, Louis Malle, and Edward Djerejian.
Photographs and negatives include: Bren Dubay, Peter K. Karapetkov, Rice Women's Conference, Rice Women's Resource Center, Jennifer Olson, Chelsea Valdes, Barbara Jordan Tribute, Kirbyjon Caldwell, Stephen Klineberg, Chandler Davidson, Walter Hall, the Reverend Bill Lawson, Malcolm Gillis, Sheila Jackson Lee, and Lee Brown.
Photographs and negatives include: Devika Subramanian, construction of Grand Organ for the Edyth Bates Old Recital Hall, Rice students playing Frisbee, David Applegate, and William Cook.
Photographs and negatives include: Billy Bonner and Janet Braam.
Photographs and negatives include: Judith Kelleher Schafer, Names Project AIDS Memorial Quilt, "Mountain Folks of Yunnan" Rice Media Center exhibit by Wu Jialin, Stephen Klineberg, and the Spring Theatre Festival.
Photographs and negatives include: William Marsh Rice, Willy's 180th Birthday Celebration, chorus dancers in "The Tender Land" opera, Katherine Drew, Clarence Martin, Raymond Martin, Computational Engineering or Duncan Hall building construction.
Photographs and negatives include: Joel Cyprus, Jerry R. Junkins, Thomas J. Engibous, Malcolm Gillis, Sidney Burrus, Michael Carroll, and Isaac Christopher (Ike) Sanders.
Photographs and negatives include: Chris Gouge, Todd Stadler, Patricia Bellan-Gillen, Ryan Levy, Scott Ruthfield, Beer Bike, and Brown College Women's Bike Team.
Photographs and negatives include: E. William "Bill" Barnett, Christine McPeters, "Angleton Grill" by Bren Dubay, John Freeman, Catherine Clack, Rice United for Diversity rally, Maryana Iskander, Malcolm Gillis, Dennis Huston, Soumtra Lahiri, Rice: The Next Century Stragic Plan, and John Strickland.
Photographs and negatives include: The Gardner Symonds Teaching Laboratory, "Breakthrough: The Changing Face of Science in America," Malcolm Gilis, William "Bill" Barnett, 33rd Annual Student Art Exhibition, Richard Tapia, Kathy Ireland, Whitfield Lovell, Paul Cooper, and student artwork by C. Miller, Hite Billes, Jesse DeMartino, and Timothy Carroll.
Photographs and negatives include: Richard Brown, Hugh Hunt, James Young, Michael Hammond, Maryana Iskander, Anthony Elam, Seiichi Matsuda, Qimiao Si, Bruce Lairson, Katherine Fischer Drew Endowment, Janelle Scott, RiceFest, Dell Butcher Hall maps, and Emily Velz.
Photographs and negatives include: Andrew Barron, Zenaido Camacho, Consular Ladies Club of Houston, Xie Jue, Mariella Salvatori, Patricia Martin, and Rice Engineering Alumni 1996 Annual Student Awards Ceremony and Barbecue.
Photographs and negatives include: Alex Ferrance, Commencement stage construction, Maria Teresa Leal, Eric Sutton, Thomas Estle, Oscar Byrd, Katherine Drew, Michael Maas, Deborah Harter, Ed Cox, John Hutchinson, and John Ambler.
Photographs and negatives include: Commencement, Jesse DeMartino, Karin Broker, Malcolm Gillis, Tony Gorry, Taft Symonds, and French Pi Delta Phi Honors reception.
Photographs include: Texas World Police Games, Sgt. Willie Anderson, Robert Redman, Ed Ahnert, Malcolm Gillis, Terry Koonce, Albert Kidd, Kathy Balshaw-Biddle, Jonathan Miller, Pam Reynolds, Faculty Council Report on Salaries, Rice Baseball Camp, Paul Anderson, Dennis Hendrix, Christopher James Castaneda, David Auston, and Nancy Boothe.
Photographs include: Harry K. Smith, Patrick Hartigan, Reginald Dufour, David Kaplan, Ron Sass, Linda McNeil, Kathryn Costello, Judith Brown, Joe Nelson, Macondo Brown-O'Connor, Nancy Boothe, Paul Anderson, David Auston, Dennis Hendrix, Robert Hunsacker, Christopher Castaneda, Tommy LaVergne, Kathryn Costello, Pat Kambhu, Jeff Cox, Devika Subramanian, Stephanie Weirich, Rice Web Camp, Kathy Mathison, trees, and Adam Setliff.
Photographs and negatives include: Hugh O'Brian, Hugh O'Brian Youth Foundation, Malcolm Gillis, Lou Aronica, Rice University Publishing Program, William W. Symes, Richard Tapia, Stewart A. Levin, and the Museum of Fine Arts exhibit of Frank Freed.
Photographs and negatives include: Malcolm Gillis, John Zammito, Ian Walker, John Hutchinson, Lori Rudge, Zenaido Camacho, Janet McNeill, Scott Biddy, Hanadi Ritai, Maryana Iskander, Leonel J. Castillo, Jenn Healey, and Rice matriculation.
Photographs and negatives include: Ken Masters, Amy Calcote, Katy Densmore, Erin Devitt, Alex Hernandez, Clarence Miller, and Rice Orientation Week (O-Week).
Photographs and negatives include: Gary Soto, Anne Papakonstantinou, Russ Senti, Cynthia Larius, Edward McDonald, Sidney Burrus, Larry Tomkin, Keith Baggerly, the Western Athletic Conference, Richard Tapia, Dr. Austin, Ira Gruber, Patricia Gruber, Atieno Odhiambo, A. Miele, Marco Ciufolini, and Alan Dershowitz.
Photographs and negatives include: William "Bill" Martin, Marching Owl Band uniform, Angela Valenzuela, Emilio Zamora, Clara Valenzuela-Zamora, Luz Valenzuela-Zamora, John Gladu, Jonna Beck, Allison Zumbro, Madeline Gladu, Ryan McMullan, Jennifer Ngo, Andy Hickl, and Eric Weimer.
Photographs and negatives include: Diana Welch, John Cirilo, Christof Spieler, William McNally, Elizabeth George, Jack Cadden, Stephanie Fuller, Catherine Clack, Patricia Bass, Mark Scheid, Patricia Martin, Lindley Doran, Times Barber Shop, Barber's Day, John Hutchinson, Dennis Huston, Sidney Burrus, Robert Stein, Carol Quillen, Kathleen Matthews, Arthur Gottschalk, Samuel Jones, and Ellsworth Milburn.
Photographs and negatives include: Mark Ditman, Adeela Gill, John Campbell, Kari Hoffman, Elizabeth Oehler, Natalie Kirilcuk, Elizabeth Davis, Kelley Lounge, Rice Memorial Center, Veda Murthy, Jeff Barroso, Kieren MacMillan, Roberta Prior, Sasha Callahan, Emily Mann, Sammy's, and Amy Gutmann.
Photographs and negatives include: Robert Curl, Nobel Prize, Fred Tomaselli "The Urge to be Transported" exhibit at the Rice University Art Gallery, Allison Fine, Malcolm Gillis, and Christopher Browning.
Photographs and negatives include: Alan Thornhill, George Golka, Tomasz Golka, Rice Women's Fast-Pitch Team, Catherine McIntosh, Ann Zumwalt, Aimee Marchand, and Rice Homecoming.
Photographs and negatives include: Zenaido Comacho, Alex Hernandez, Chris Adolph, Anne Klein, Sarah Klizas, Tibetan lama Khetsun Sangpo Rinpoche, Malcolm Gillis, Marvin Zindler, Linda Neagley, Gothic architecture, Jack Rakove, and Steve Moniaci.
Photographs and negatives include: Connie Burke, John Outram, Francis L. Loewenheim, Computational Engineering Building (Duncan Hall), Hanan Ashrawi, and Werner Herzog.
Photographs and negatives include: Amir NAderi, "New York City Walls 1990s" at the Rice University Media Center, Jennifer K. Holmes, Frances H. Jeter, J. Joseph Barnes, Fedwa Malti-Douglas, Sharon Durbin, Captain W. O. "Woe" King, President George H. W. Bush, President Gerald Ford, Malcolm Gillis, Lee Brown, U.N. Secretary General Boutros Gali, Baker Institute for Public Policy, Edward Djerejian, Jim Dunlap, Rice Homecoming, Ann Duncan, Charles Duncan, and the Computational Engineering Building (Duncan Hall).
Photographs and negatives in the Baker Conference Special Edition include: Jane Chance, Tolkien class, Rice Intramural College Bowl (Quiz Bowl), Daphne Gallagher, Rod Ganske, Andy Monat, Jay Welch, Janet Reno, Outer Loop construction, Lee Brown, Edward Djerejian, George R. Zodrow, Robert Stein, James A. Baker III, and Jack Kemp.
Photographs and negatives include: Eve Andree Laramee, Tom Williams, Dean Currie, David Bixler, Barry Dunning, Marjorie Corcoran, and Philip Mallory Jones.
Photographs and negatives include: Ayisha McMillan, Saul Landau, Brian Huberman, John Hutchinson, Paula Hutchinson, John Boles, Bob Bixby, Betty Bixby, Ina C. Smith, Ron Sass, Bill Gordon, Cal Smith, J. Fred Duckett, Alan Grob, Kim Henkel, Al Gore, Richard Smalley, Robert Curl, and Douglas Osheroff.
Photographs and negatives include: Chris Sankey, Carmen Flores, Anita Camargo, Jennifer Overton, Sharon Bush, Renae Scott, Keith Chapman, Heather Dodge, Carolynn White, Rita Loucks, Nora Quiocho, Phoebe Ruehl, Bud Smith, and the Best Buddies Rice chapter.
Photographs and negatives include: 'Wild Art' and quad construction.
Photographs and negatives include: 'Wild Art,' construction, and Rice baseball camp.
Photographs and negatives include: George Marcus, Abdel Hernandez, Surpik Angelini, Nancy Burch, Richard Avant, Malcolm Gillis, Benjamin Bailar, Noah Reiter, Christine Young, Barbara Phelps, and Rice Emergency Medical Services.
Photographs and negatives include: ice storm, Patrick Chang, Sungho Hwang, Scott Follmar, Anthony Postert, Neil Arnwine, John Schroeter, Thomas Nichols, and Valhalla.
Photographs and negatives include: Bill Lawson, Amy Chan, BSA Gospel Chorale, Zenaido Camacho, Black Student Association Candlelight Vigil, Jessica Cohen, Richard Smith, Asian Studies, Eric Brown, Malcolm Gillis, and Andre Droxler.
Photographs and negatives include: Joseph Cathey, Michael Carroll, Sol LeWitt Rice University Art Gallery exhibit, and the Rice Model Science Laboratory Project.
Photographs and negatives include: John Cheatham, Malcolm Gillis, Stephanie Fuller, Alan Grob, Katherine Drew, Harold Hyman, Service Awards, Mary Margaret Williamson, Dominique DeMenil, James A. Baker III, Edward Djerejian, Madeleine Albright, Betty Charles, Eusebio Franco Jr., Bill Martin, and Marion Hicks.
Photographs and negatives include: Vivek Goel, Vivek Rao, Kim Manney Jones, Simi Blair, Vivek Pai, Vivek Ramarathnam, the Names Project AIDS Memorial Quilt, Cornel West, Malcolm Gillis, and Spring Outreach Day.
Photographs and negatives include: Allison Zumbro, Ryan McMullan, Samuel Jones, Tara Long, Stephanie Taylor, Mary Lou Margrave, Brooke Robertson, Michelle Washburn, Michelle O'Hara, Kathy Noack, Lindley Doran, Krista Ruth Noack, Laura Mize, Jasmin Tiro, Tara Long, Rachel Dornhelm, and Allison Fine.
Photographs and negatives include: Yasir Arafat, Larry Thompson, Samuel Jones, Malcolm Gillis, Edward Djerejian, and James A. Baker, III.
Photographs and negatives include: Eugen Radulescu, Beer Bike, Brown College Women's Team, Jones College students, Phil Gramm, Malcolm Gillis, Ann Greene, Michael Kinsley, and the 'Firing Line' debate.
Photographs and negatives include: Katharine Graham, Edward Djerejian, Anne Papakonstantinou, Fred Rudolph, and Nanda Kirkpatrick.
Photographs and negatives include: Willy's 181st Birthday, Josh Earnest, Brenna Copeland, Zenaido Comacho, Grand Organ in the Edyth Bates Old Recital Hall, Feliz Balderaz, Clyde Holloway, Margaret Fox, Malcolm Gillis, Melissa Straker, Victor Lopez, Andrea Blackett, TaNisha Mills, Robert Curl, and the Rice Men's Basketball team.
Photographs and negatives include: Rice Habitat for Humanity, Kevin Murphy, Mandy Hyland, Lillian Woung, Jonathan Cherry, Kim Ross, Frank Thorn, the Rice-Andersen House, Malcolm Gillis, Michael Hammond, Mary Lynn Marks, William "Bill" Barnett, Edyth Bates Old Recital Hall and Grand Organ dedication, and Virginia Babikian.
Photographs and negatives include: Franz Brotzen, Sergio de los Cobos, Anne Walters Robinson, Edward Snow, Rice Men's Rugby Club, Vanessa Curto, David Minter, Caroline Minter, Calvin Class, Frances Brotzen, David Malone, Elizabeth Cook-Shen, Lucia Lin, Carl Feldbaum, George Mitchell, and Malcolm Gillis.
Photographs and negatives include: Brian Knowles, Sharon Bush, Rice University Student Art Exhibition No. 34, John Sparagana, Catherine Jones, Amanda Fisher, Jenne Giles, Gene Johnston, Rice Women's Lacrosse Club, Malcolm Gillis, Dan West, the Rice Forensics Society, the Baker Institute for Public Policy grand opening, and James A. Baker III.
Photographs and negatives include: George Burt, John Zammito, Emily Cheng, John Hutchinson, Marcin Szajda, Eugenia Georges, Stephen Klineberg, John Ambler, Chander Davidson, Elizabeth Long, Krista Noack, Kathy Noack, Joan Strassman, and Elysabeth Gamard.
Photographs, negatives, and slides include: Adam Reiser, Sylvia Morin, and the Pi Delta Phi French Honors Society.
Photographs and negatives include: Matt Anderson, Lance Berkman, Wayne Graham, Jason Richards, Rice Owls Baseball, Doug Schuler, Ron Smith, Tracey Barbwell, Jack Redwine, Shirley Redwine, the iguana rescue, Darren Stockton, Larry Thompson, Roy Horner, Gabriel Orosco, and Fondren library construction.
Photographs, slides, and negatives include: Kevin Graham, Martin Pham, Robert Haymes, Christina Bui, Tim Wallace, Jamil Prentice, Ryan Dohoney, the Palmer Way Station, Urban Immersion Program, Helena Michie, Shirley Simpson, Rice-Andersen House, Yildiz Bayazitogiu, Theresa Chatman, Malcolm Gillis, Ken Kurtzman, John Hutchinson, John Dalton, and Richard Smalley.
Photographs and negatives include: Rice football, Rice Youth Football Day, Roger Hinshaw, Ken Hatfield, Malcolm Gillis, Robyn Wright Dunbar, Andrea Keys, Sheikh Hussein A. Al-Banawi, Mahmoud A. El-Gamal, Julie Francis, Rice cheerleaders, and Sean Williams.
Photographs and negatives include: Karin Broker, O-Week, '17 Years of Print Making' exhibit, Constance Estep Wells, Brian Knowles, Joseph Bartozek, Rice Sailing Club, Lucy Malone, Kent Voss, Malcolm Gillis, Team Wiess cheer, Daryl Shorter, Jones College, JIBA, Baker College car, matriculation, Baker 13, and Maria-Regina Kecht.
Photographs and negatives include: Nathan Smalley, Peter Shaddock, Madeleine Albright, Lee Hoage-Jamail, Yasir Arafat, Janet Reno, Jack Kemp, Edward Djerejian, Jenny Ferng, Michelle Engleman, Louren Reed, Paula Wynn, Yayoi Kusama, Rice University Art Gallery, Chandler Davidson, Monica Bacallao, Ellsworth Milburn, and Hai Chen.
Photographs and negatives include: Rice vs. Air Force football game, Rice football, "Operation Sellout" game, Arturo Montes, Henry Rosovsky, Sherry Hughes, Destiny Suarez, Lance Berkman, Joseph Cathey, Kevin Joseph, Marching Owl Band (MOB), Heather Michelle-Stewart, Sol Bodner, Charles Koontz, Scott Rennie, Malcolm Gillis, and Certificate of Enshrinement award winners.
Photographs and negatives include: Karen Kossie, Christoph Eschenbach, and the Shepherd School Symphony Orchestra.
Photographs and negatives include: Larry McMurtry, Margaret Fox, Kylie Spence, Carol Quillen, and Sean Harris.
Photographs and negatives include: Dennis Hendrix, Saint Arnold Brewing Company, Kevin Bartol, Brock Wagner, Emil Fernandez, Jesse Torres, Tim Case, Jeff Humphreys, Bryan Cook, Demetrios Demopolous, Jean Ashmore, David Remnick, Pol D. Spanos, Farley Tobin, Baker Institute, and Fausto Vazquez.
Photographs and negatives include: Cynthia Wunder, Eric Zapata, and Bina Agarwal.
Photographs and negatives include: Michael R. Beschloss, James A. Baker III, Baker Hall dedication ceremony, E. William Barnett, Malcolm Gillis, Henry Kissinger, Kay Bailey Hutchinson, Bob Lanier, Mikhail Gorbachev, Edward Djerejian, Kenneth Lay, Bernard Shaw, and Warren Christopher.
Photographs and negatives include: Paul Moore, Rebecca Searl, "You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown" production, Elnoretha Adams, Malcolm Gillis, Elizabeth George, Stephanie Fuller, Harold Hyman, Edith Orlin, Thomas Estle, and Mark Williamson.
Photographs and negatives include: Rice Homecoming, Daryl Shorter, David Medina, Gabriel Medina, and Ken Hatfield.
Photographs and negatives include: Rice Homecoming, James Kinsey, Donell Victorian, Youth Advocates Inc., Wiess College, and Mike Gustin.
Photographs and negatives include: Jim Rahe, David Ikenberry, Charles Howard "To the absent friend" exhibit at the Rice University Art Gallery, Lee P. Brown, Rob Mosbacher Jr., AirLifeLine, Jamie Hanks, Michael Hanks, and Alan Grob.
Photographs and negatives include: Jonel Curl, Mary Lou Margave, Vonqueta Hicks, the Graduate Student Loan Closet, Faculty Women's Club project, Tony Gorry, Gale Stokes, James A. Baker III, Edward Djerejian, Nursultan Nazarbaev, the Society of Rice University Women, and the Rice Land Lumber Company.
Photographs and negatives include: Lisa McCormick, Jack Mitchell, Charles Duncan, Malcolm Gillis, Anne Duncan, Marcia J. Citron, Rice School of Architecture project by Chad Machen, Brian Burke, Andrew Albers, Alane Truitt, and Brett Zamore.
Photographs and negatives include: Dominique de Menil, Gerald A. Cohen, and W.O. King.
Photographs and negatives include: Ellen Butler, Francisca Castillo, Carlos Fighetti, Kim Neuscheler, Kathy Dy, Project Row, Danny Samuels, Nonya Grenader, Robert Fleming, Pat Kambhu, Roger Reuter, Eugen Radulescu, Neill Binford, Rice Women's Basketball, Rice Men's Basketball, Jarvis Kelley Sanni, and Jenny Cafferty.
Photographs and negatives include: Harry Wu, the Black Student Association, Martin Luther King Jr. vigil, Harith Paki Nelson, Jaime Middleton, Rev. Frank L. Chatmon, "Dona Provi's Garden" by Antonio Martorell in the Rice University Art Gallery, Niko Severson, Lisa McCormick, Norman Fischer, LaNelle McReynolds, Mahmoud A. El-Gamal, and Chandler Davidson.
Photographs and negatives include: Arlo Guthrie, Tony Elam, David Sedmak, Go-Texan Champion Chili Cook-off, Bob Jaster, Tracey Rhoades, Victor Kato, and the Houston Pan-Cultural Film Festival.
Photographs and negatives include: Bringfriede Kahrs, Malcolm Gillis, Bremen school discussion, Marc Robert, Nichel Heinijer, Pierre-Alain Jaussi, Francoise Ducret, Jean-Claude Walther, Larry Rachleff, Rice Owls Baseball, Jeremy Bates, Christof Spieler, Shepherd School orchestra, David Medina, and Tom Hiles.
Photographs and negatives include: Lunar New Year Festival, Chinese Student Association, Korean Student Association, Taiwanese Student Association, South Asian Society, Vietnamese Student Association, Becky Frederickson, Alicia Schade, Malcolm Gillis, Hunter Rowe, Richard Wolin, Josuzette Reed, Danny Samuels, Tommy Brasher, Ahmed Maher El Sayed, and Dore Gold.
Photographs and negatives include: Ramona Hicks, Women's Resource Center anniversary, A. J. Jamal, IMPACT award winners, FotoFest, "Keep on Rolling" at Rice Media Center by Jesse Demartino, Erwin Teufel, Malcolm Gillis, James A. Baker III, Jane Chance, Lucille Fultz, Deborah Harter, Carol Quillen, Jinny Sisson, Penelope Bennett, Lisa Bryan, Jackie Ehlers, Cynthia Lanius, Karen George, Erin Devitt, Joy Roth, Claire Carman, Carrell Covington, Liana Gefter, Melissa Jacobs, Stephanie Taylor, Ravi Sohal, Jane Trinh, and Catherine Clack.
Photographs, slides and negatives include: Peter Nordlander, Moshe Vardi, Robert Fowler, Paul Brace, Andrew Barron, Houston Fire Department, George Phillips, Frank Shipman, Ric Stoll, Dana Durbin, Blanton Lewis, Jordan Konisky, Tony Elam, and Charles Richard.
Photographs and negatives include: Dean Shank, Volodyia piano and signatures, Wayne Graham, disc golf, Richard Smalley, Wang Meng, Steve Lewis, John Horner, and Brian Gibson.
Photographs and negatives include: Beer Bike, new Beer Bike track, Baker 13, Norma Jean Autry, Laura Huckabay, Kimathy Blackwood, Alexander Lebed, Sherry Bennett, Simon Clark, Tanya Dunlap, Rebecca Sherman, Stephanie Taylor, Stuart Douglas, Edward Said, Hakeem Olajuwon, Robert Curl, David Lancaster, Frank Tittel, and Dirk Richter.
Photographs and negatives include: Jennifer Brown, Michele Wen Tang, Lee Brown, Edward Said, and the Rice Scholar-Athlete Banquet.
Photographs and negatives include: the Business Info Center, Vicki Calvin, Geoff Love, Jones School, Stuart Eizenstat, William E. Leuchtenburg, KTRU Outdoor Show, the Phil Gayle Trio, electric bus, Nell Noddings, and Jennifer Perez.
Photographs and negatives include: Will Robedee, the George R. Brown Forensics team, Darshan Amrit, Jason Wehling, Joshua Roberts, Rice University Art Galley exhibit "COLLAPSE: The Commodification of Talent," Habitat for Humanity, and Lillian Ortiz.
Photographs and negatives include: Dennis Banks, Mallcolm Gillis, Robert Schwartz, Marcie Doughty, Eileen Grant, Consuelo Sanchez, Gracie Henry, Margaret Cortez, Albert Jackson, Muhammed Al-Shaali, Edward Djerejian, Clovis Maksoud, and the Summer Sports Camp.
Photographs and negatives include: Richard Tapia, GirlTECH workshop, Patricia Martin, Rowland Smith Jr., Adan Herrera, Paul Manwell, David Hindman, Daniel King, Jill Daugherty, and Kevin Conrad.
Photographs and negatives include: Bob Stein, Terrence Doody, Charles Stewart, John Hutchinson, John Olson, and Eugenia Georges.
Photographs and negatives include: Robin Sickles, Gus A. Schill Jr., Malcolm Gillis, IBM Corporation, Kurt Vonnegut, Thomas Scott Brown, Alexis Bacon, Shana Stern Warren, students in the Italian Club and French Club, Terry Cloudman, Russell Price, Roland Smith Jr., George H. W. Bush, Barbara Bush, Rice graduation, Jones College magisters.
Photographs and negatives include: the Association of Rice Alumni, Jimmy Carter Work Project, Sheila Fletcher, the Department of Facilities and Engineering sand castle competition, Sam Venneri, NASA Collaboration, Malcolm Gillis, Richard Smalley, Nick Lampson, Ken Bentsen, Sidney Burrus, Richard Tapia, Israel Galvan, Joe Arnold, George Strait, Ayisha McMillan, Jimmy Carter, Rosalyn Carter, Varick Stringham Jr., Lea Rabin, and Edward Djerejian.
Photographs and negatives include: Sai Paranjpye, David Auston, B.N. Murali, David Medina, Richard Torres, Arturo DeLeon, Yvonne Hernandez, Anandi Sheth, and Urban Immersion.
Photographs and negatives include: Lovett College, Orientation Week (O-Week), Operation Sellout Part II, Rice Owls Football, Malcolm Gillis, Ken Hatfield, Bobby May, John Polick, Kathryn Costello, Tony Elam, Ryulchi Kuki, Ken Kennedy, Moshe Vardi, Michael Carroll, Marek Kimmell, and Larry McMurtry.
Photographs and negatives include: Hakeem Olajuwan, Charles Torello, Sue Hutchings, Matt Fraser, Stephen Keene exhibit in the Rice University Art Gallery, Alice Hill, Mitch Ackel, Rice Dance Theatre, Kimberlee Benn, Katy Busworth, and Kristina Raniere.
Photographs and negatives include: Scott Wise, Kent Anderson, Dean Currie, Malcolm Gillis, Amaud Chevalier, Stewart Morris, Charles Szalkowski, Jesse Turner, Vianna Davila, Saramae Nilsson, Barbara Kile, Viola Benavidez, Ryan Hall, Iris Hurtado, Todd LeBlanc, Bradford Strom, Jessica Watkins, and William Deigaard.
Photographs and negatives include: Eugen Radulescu, Bob Cesario, Jamail Plaza construction, and Jane Callan.
Photographs and negatives include: Malcolm Gillis, Richard Smalley, Jaron Lanier, Nicole Eisenman's "Behavior" installation at the Rice University Art Gallery, Teach for America Week, Fondren library, Jeanine White, and Robert Dix.
Photographs and negatives include: Tom Broussard, David A. Mittelstadt, Barry Smith, Harold Hyman, Jane Dailey, Michael Willrich, and Kerry Keck.
Photographs and negatives include: Alex Hernandez, Rice Honduras Relief Effort, Jason Skaer, and the National Association for Computing MAchinery South Central USA Programming Competition.
Photographs and negatives include: "16 Houses: Owning a House in the City," Michael Bell, Mardie Oakes, Stacy Ware, and the Wild Art series.
Photographs and negatives include: Bob Truscott, Old Chemistry Building Renovation, Paul Sanders, Lisa Chang, Jeffrey Clarke, Michelle Dass Pickard, Susan Lieberman, Daniel Ma, Dennis Lu, Mrudula Penta, Dan West, Brooke Ames, Tumi Johnson, Mondro Barmam, Coffeehouse, and Frank Bearden.
Photographs and negatives include: E. William Barnett, Judith Brown, Malcolm Gillis, D. Kent Anderson, Bobby Azamian, Justyna Gudzowska, and Kyle Cavanaugh.
Photographs and negatives include: Deron Neblett, Patricia Martin, Jen Cooper, Karin Pearl, Rex McLellan, Rhonda Callendar, Brian Mayeaux, Enrique Barrera, Candi Hudson, Adam Andrea, Gary Cisneros, Justin Kerr, Eric Christiansen, Jay Laughman, Nancy Espinoza, Jessie Hawkins, Rice groundskeepers, and Susan Lurie.
Photographs and negatives include: the Martin Luther King Jr. candlelight vigil, James A. Baker III, Edward Djerejian, Bernice King, Shaun Scott, Edward Cox, Zenaido Comacho, "The History of the World" Rice University Art Gallery installation by Michael Petry, Michael Petry, Stephen Klineberg, Carroll Robinson, Malcolm Gillis, the Black Student Association, William Shakespeare's First Folio at Woodson Research Center, Melodious Voices of Praise, and Melanie R. Stagger.
Photographs and negatives include: Karen Yaworski, Amar Pai, James Mischka, Richard Avant of Deloitte and Touche Consulting Group, E. William Barnett, Jack Blanton, Alex Hernandez, the Rice Honduras Relief Effort, Morela Hernandez, and Malcolm Gillis.
Photographs and negatives include: Jurgen Timm, Malcolm Gillis, Fritz Schaumann, Douglas Mitchell, Edward Albee, Rob Bundy, Yo-Yo Ma, Zenaido Camacho, Allison Winnike, Marion Hicks, and Elsa Arguello.
Photographs and negatives include: Malcolm Gillis, Bernadette J. Brooten, Benjamin Alire Saenz, Kelechi Anderson, Victor Lopez, "What the Butler Saw," Mike Simon, Maria Collins, and Marla Brumfield.
Photographs and negatives include: Roger "Trey" Wright, Mark Escott, Space Science renovations, Robin Feng, Lunar New Year festival, Steven Pinker, Women's Resource Center third anniversary, Rice Emergency Medical Services (REMS), Christine Borgstrom, Stephen Chao, Alex Flores, Monica Ramos, Clay Juckett, John Cloudman, Noah Reiter, Laura Grable, Mark Escott, Sean Joyce, Tim Miller, Andi Tenner, Clayton Hall, Sandheep Surendran, Danny Chelius, and Ginger Mills.
Photographs and negatives include: Yo-Yo Ma.
Photographs and negatives include: Lars Lerup, Sohela Farokhi, "A Workshop for Librarians and Archivists," Phyllis Martin, Melinda Flannery, Richard Tapia, Shirley Malcolm, Caroline Caskey, Christine Mei Chow, Michael Chow, Doug Foshee, Zenaido Camacho, Keith Anderson, and Janet Lowe.
Photographs and negatives include: "Time Not Wasted" exhibition by Jane Miller in the Rice University Art Gallery, Christopher Johnson, Katherine Solon, Elizabeth Gabriel, John Germany, Jesse. H. Jones Graduate School of Management students, and James McPherson.
Photographs and negatives include: Beer Bike, Steven Klineberg, Albert Pope, Stephen Fox, Gloria Ladson-Billings, Phil Gramm, Malcolm Gillis, arboretum grand opening, Andre Watts, Jones Beer Bike team, and Michael Hammond.
Photographs and negatives include: Julia Robinson, Heather Hawley, Matt Frost, David Gergen, James A. Baker III, Edward Djerejian, Lani Guinier, Jim Wooten, Keith Meehan Bill Wilson, David Minter, David Nirenberg, and Pam Walker.
Photographs and negatives include: Rice University Native American Student Association Powow, Rice Community Garden, Amanda Barnum, Staff Advisory Committee, Jennifer Overton, Jet Prendeville, Mary Margaret Williamson, Teresa Parks, Bill Lassiter, Michael Winters, Pat Kambhu, Somarine Diep, Kyle Cavanaugh, Jana Callan, Scott Brasher, Heather Dodge, Alvin R. Tarlov, James A. Baker III, Bob Lanier, Bob Stein, Edward Djerejian, and William P. Hobby Jr.
Photographs and negatives include: George Strait, Eric Johnson, Terry Shepard, Lani Guinier, Gale Stokes, Edward Djerejian, Fran Moshiri, Daria Lawrence, Steve Currall, Paula Sanders, Bob Dipboye, Maureen Craig, Sarah Betz, Sarah Rodgerson, and Ben Serebrin.
Photographs and negatives include: Garry Eudey, Lachlan McArthur, Jon Warren, and Nancy Rowe.
Photographs and negatives include: Damon Thames, Rice Owls baseball, Thomas Friedman, Edith Wyschogrod, and Jason Wehling.
Photographs and negatives include: Bob Patten, Mikki Hebl, the Bayou City Road Runners, Zhiyong Gao, Steve J. Cox, Chandler Davidson, Yildiz Bayazitoglu, Deborah Harter, and Edward L. Cox.
Photographs and negatives include: Commencement, Patrick Thomas, Rosemary Yiameos, Theodore Howard, Liz Brown, Matthew Chrisman, Amy Bender, James Henderson, Ryan McMullan, Gilbert M. Grosvenor, James A. Baker III, Malcolm Gillis, Bob Dalton, Terry Koonce, Albert Kidd, Al Hirshberg, Helmut Schmidt, Thomas Friedman, and Edward Djerejian.
Photographs and negatives include: Special Olympics Summer Games, summer construction, the Basmati Quartet, Fia Mancini, David Filner, Alessandra Jennings, Erin Breene, Zenaido Camacho, Paul Sutera, Dana Hoyland, Marguerite Guinn, Bonnie Brelsford, Phil Gramm, Carole Keeton Rylander, Dean Currie, William Deigaard, and the Donne Di Domani Awards.
Photographs and negatives include: Rice Rowing Club, Hannes Hoger, Cathryn Fine, Bastille Day, the Woodson Research Center, Lee Pecht, Reckling Park, Joe Broussard, Nora Quiocho, and Robert Patten.
Photographs and negatives include: the Carbon Nanotechnology Laboratory, Bernard Harris, Robert Eckels, Malcolm Gillis, Gene Hackerman, Norman Hackerman, Richard Smalley, Nick Lampson, Ken Bentsen, Henry Hernandez, Blanca Garza, Alberto R. Gonzales, Andrew MacKay, Gwen Thomas, Gunes Ercal, KTRU, Patty Base, and Rice matriculation.
Photographs and negatives include: O-Week, Kazahra Gallegos, LeMeichia Burries, Chris Sims, Martha Borrowman, Wallace Dominey, and Judd Smith.
Photographs, slides, and negatives include: Chris Kilgore, Kristen Griffen, and Cristy Moreno.
Photographs and negatives include: Rusty Holleman, Emma Phillips, John Chao, Anne Countiss, "Hoss" installation at the Rice University Art Gallery by Barry McGee, Kyle Henry, and J. D. Allshouse.
Photographs and negatives include: Bill Taylor, Les Hulsey, Arnaud Chevalier, Julia Smith Wellner, Dean Currie, Rice Graduate Apartments, and D. Kent Anderson.
Photographs and negatives include: Evan Pankey, Megan Francis, Jeffrey Blackinton, Petra Pilgrim, Deepthy Kishore, Alisa Tijerina, Liora Danan, Cynthia Guadalupe, Rebecca Mackiernan, Malcolm Gillis, Phil Gramm, Kay Bailey Huchison, Ken Hatfield, Hanna Gray, Mikki Hebl, and the Hewlett Seminars.
Photographs and negatives include: the Gotham Quartet, Lun Jiang, Sheila Browne, Cheng-Hou Lee, Quan Jian, the Anderson Quartet, Jeffrey Boga, Marianne Henry, Michael Cameron, Diedra Lawrence, Michael Bloomberg, Geoffrey Potts, Alex Knapp, Envision grant cooking classes, Tony Ro, James Pomerantz, Randi Martin, Sydney Lamb, and Jim Tour.
Photographs and negatives include: Erin Engelhardt, Ilana Bromberg, Pete Irot, John Bennett, Malcolm Gillis, new Wiess College groundbreaking, E. William Barnett, John Hutchinson, Paula Hutchinson, Emma Hutchinson, and Peter E. Veruki.
Photographs and negatives include: Aliaquanda Derrick, Robert Arellano, Olivia Liang, Barber Day, Mary Voswinkel, the Graduate Student Association, Scott Sitton, Julia Smith Wellner, Andrea Frolic, Kristin Griffith, Ashley Lowe, and Devra Jaffe.
Photographs and negatives include: Isaac Stern, Sidney Burrus, Ann Hightower, Gilbert R. Whitaker, Vince Hennessy, Rice lemonade stand, Emerson Hankamer, Chad Smith, John B. Herrington, Carl Buck, Michael Capellas, and Andres Pastrana Arango.
Photographs and negatives include: Project Pumpkin, Rice Student Volunteer Program, Thomas B. Fargo, Mary McIntire, Nawal El-Saadawi, and Nelson Mandela.
Photographs and negatives include: Isaac Stern, Brett Zamore, Fifth Ward remodeling, Todd Welbes, Amy Boratko, and the Rice Players production of "Post-mortem."
Photographs and negatives include: the Houston Area Urban League, Malcolm Gillis, Sylvia Brooks, Ann Wright, Jan West, Douglas Simmons, and Stephen Zeff.
Photographs and negatives include: Ellsworth Millburn, Moira Gunn, Sammy the Owl, and Carl MacDowell.
Photographs and negatives include: Kathleen DeSilva, Zenaido Camacho, the Holiday Bazaar, Kara Liggett, Kirra Jordan, Alex Bougaieff, C.M. "Hank" Hudspeth, Demaris Hudspeth, Malcolm Gillis, Daryl Williams, Kathleen Matthews, and Gus Scuseria. This folder also includes a copy of "Shaping a Century: Rice Contributes to Evolution of Houston, the World," including essays by Malcolm Gillis, John Boles, and Rice Deans.
Photographs and negatives include: Virginia Stanfield, and the "Inertial Field" exhibition at Rice University Art Gallery by Stephen Hendee.
Photographs and negatives include: Larry Alemany, Helena Michie, the Heritage Society museum, School of Architecture's Rice Building Workshop, Martin Luther King Jr. candlelight vigil, Malcolm Gillis, Vanessa Gilmore, the Black Student Association, and the Majestic Voices of Praise.
Photographs and negatives include: Meredith Skura, the Rice University Art Gallery exhibit "SuperThrive," Scottie McDonald, Irie Time, and Stephen Hendee.
Photographs and negatives include: the Winter Jazz Soiree, the Rice Jazz Ensemble, the Rice Social Dance Society, Richard Baraniuk, Jones Graduate School of Management, Spence Stephens, Scott Sitton, Morris Dees, Paul Katz, Malcolm Gillis, and Morris Dees.
Photographs and negatives include: Andre Watts, Andrea Metz, and Doug Daft.
Photographs and negatives include: Cars of the Future, Rice Environmental Conference, the Women's Resource Center fourth anniversary, Hardy Bourland, Service Awards, Frank Bearden, Malcolm Gillis, Russell Barnes, and the Reckling Park Grand Opening.
Photographs and negatives include: Gil Cuthbertson, Jose Aranda, Devika Subramanian, Elizabeth Long, Diversity Week, Tao Li, Reese Harvey, John Hempel, William Veech, John Polking, Thierry DePauw, Bob Hardt, Robin Forman, Tim Cochran, and the memorial service honoring Housotn firefighters Kimberly Ann Smith and Lewis Evans Mayo III.
Photographs and negatives include: Mae Jemison, Sidney Burrus, Jorma Lilleberg, Jim Allers, Owlchemy club, the Houston Museum of Natural Science, Roland Smith, and Iris Hurtado.
Photographs and negatives include: Delores McCall, Jerry McCall, the AIDS Memorial Quilt, Michael Hammond, Tom Hammond, FotoFest 2000 at the Rice University Art Gallery, and the "Clubs of Bamako" exhibit by Malick Sidibe.
Photographs and negatives include: Ken Jackson, Jenny Cafferty, Margaret Fox, Steve Lewis, James Harmon, and the Baker Institute think tank.
Photographs and negatives include: Willy Week and Robert Irwin.
Photographs and negatives include: Debbie Dickinson, Kathleen Kaun, Colleen Dutton, and Martel College.
Photographs and negatives include: Fay Yarbrough, Malcolm Gillis, Roland Smith, Tony Berning, Joon Choe, the Rice Chess Club, Herb Ward, and Jamila Nelson.
Photographs and negatives include: Malcolm Gillis, Willy's Pub, Jeff Barrie, Alex Tapia, Martel College groundbreaking, David Chen, Rebecca Bergquist, and Brian Huberman.
Photographs and negatives include: Urban Plunge, Steven Caufield, Arul Lingappan, Craig Harrison, Chris Sullivan, Maya Hazarika, Sarah Cloots, Laura Guerra-Cardus, Sumona Pramanik, Deanna Smith, Michael Erfe, John Hutchinson, Paula Hutchinson, Jenny Cafferty, Emma Hutchinson, Judy Le, the Study Abroad Photo Contest, and Katia Baizan's "Carnevale."
Photographs and negatives include: English as a Second Language courses for Rice staff, Yu-Li Sun, George Smith, Francisco Maldonado, Jessica Zuniga, Jose L. Leal, and Mia Pfleging.
Photographs and negatives include: Richard Stong, Julie Taylor, Richard Stoll, John Zammito, John Olson, Alan Grob, Chandler Davidson, Miquel Quinones, Zenaido Camacho, Mark Scheid, and the New Alumni Picnic.
Photographs and negatives include: Jonathan Borck, Milton Laufer, Andrew Hughes, Salil Patel, Shane Smith, Malcolm Gillis, George H. W. Bush, Rice University Art Gallery "Gigantor" exhibit by David Chien, Catherine Schowe, Norwegian tour, Krista Noack, Malcolm Gillis, Albert Kidd, Terry Koonce, and Bob Dalton.
Photographs and negatives include: Cynthia Joubert, Maria Elena Gracia, Barbara White, E. William Barnett, John Boles, James A. Baker III, Edward Djerejian, Bruce Riedel, Malcolm Gillis, and the groundbreaking of Jones Graduate School.
Photographs and negatives include: Gwen Aldridge, Darlene Banning, Nelson Correa, Rebecca Ledesma, Veronica Bernal, John Gomez, Mark Ditman, Russell Price, Allen Harrison, Beverley Konzem, Jones School construction, Alexis Latner, Ben Fonbuena Jr., Phillip Salinas, Ellen Butler, Shiliang Chang, Celi Zuniga, B.J. Almond, and Jennifer Evans.
Photographs and negatives include: the National Society of Hispanic MBAs, Martha Salinas, Houston Hispanic Professionals' Leadership Day, Rice matriculation, Allen Matusow, Rice University Police Officers, National Night Out, Pete Martinez, Dennis Senter, Natalie McDuell, and Rice athletic camps.
Photographs and negatives include: Flor Gutierrez, English as a Second Language classes, Heather Masden, Marie Magee, and Maxine Turner.
Photographs and negatives include: Graduate Student Association fall picnic, Valhalla, Phillip Salinas, Marcia Citron, Russell Price, Mark Ditman, Paul Rodarte, Lydia Gonzales, Malcolm Gillis, and Jeff Bezos.
Photographs and negatives include: Neal Lane, Barber Day, James Arellano, and Ben Gerdemann.
Photographs and negatives include: Rice School of Architecture reconstruction.
Photographs and negatives include: Outdoor art, Mark Ramont, Trish Rigdon, and Lindsay Batsford.
Photographs and negatives include: Rice University Art Gallery, the Museum District Day, remote clickers in class, and Alan Chapman.
Photographs and negatives include: the Martel College Founding Committee, Gavin Parks, Victoria Zyp, Matthew Bentley, Rene Aninao, Emily Venson, Joseph Ndu, Meghan Miller, Andrew Swinich, Luis Rodriguez, David Cerutti, Arthur Few, Joan Few, Karen George, Cynthia Lu, Evie Zambetakis, Ricky Kalra, Mindy Tyson, Jessica Contreras, Jonathan Behr, Brad Glock, Rice Technology Education Center, Continuing Studies, and the Rice Center for Career Development chili cook-off.
Photographs and negatives include: Michael Emerson.
Photographs and negatives include: Malcolm Gillis, Julian Navarrete, Gertrude Ealey, Elaine Sciolino, Deloitte and Touche donation, Richard L. Avant, Jeff Bornstein, Katie Pavlovsky, Morris Dees, and Michael Ford.
Photographs and negatives include: Rice Homecoming, Lewis Lockwood, Dava Sobel, and the President's Lecture.
Photographs and negatives include: Doug Tomlinson, Harvest Handoff and Baking Contest with the Houston Food Bank, Bill Hodges, Eve Bower, Ebonee Butler, Ta-Shina Williams, Ryann Ferguson, Grace Hu, Brooke Lathram, Tyson Pillow, dedication of the Berlin Wall Monument, Edward Djerejian, Juergen Chrobog, Malcolm Gillis, Hanno von Graevenitz, Nicholas Triedo, "Ebano 2000" exhibit at the Rice Media Center, the Hope and Harmony Unity Forum, Ballet Folklorico, and the Office of Multicultural Affairs.
Photographs and negatives include: Russell Pitman, Alma Guillermoprieto, John Alford, Earl Black, William Martin, Paul Brace, Robert Stein, William Hobby, Tyson Pillow, Joe Cavallaro, Gene Frantz, Patrick Frantz, Hyeokho Choi, The Evolution of Mexican-American Music, and Tony Diaz.
Photographs and negatives include: Kade Smith, Zanna Fredland, "Amahl and the Night Visitors," Antonios Mikos, Eva Haverkamp, Jeff Hoye, and Derek Ruths.
Photographs and negatives include: Malcolm Gillis, Shirley Redwine, Lee Brown, Bill Archer, Rice Society of Automotive Engineers, and Natalye Appel.
Photographs and negatives include: and the "Time and the Presidency" exhibit at the Baker Institute.
Photographs and negatives include: Jeff Dee, OwlCon, the Alliance club at Rice, Carlos Garcia, and the Martin Luther King Jr. candlelight vigil.
Photographs and negatives include: William A. Lawson, Malcolm Gillis, James A. Baker III, President's Lecture series, and Hugh Sidney.
Photographs and negatives include: Mary Ann Reed, Jose Zarazua, Maximo Umanzor, Chris Huston, Rice Women's Soccer Team, Justin Singer, Mercedes Paul, Ketan Gangatirkar, Mikell Motive, Jim Baylor, the Rice Whistle Campaign, the Women's Resource Center, Students Organized Against Rape, Malcom Gillis, and Kim Dae Jung.
Photographs and negatives include: Faculty and staff retirees, Suzanne King, Anand Kumar, and Priyank Jaiswal.
Photographs and negatives include: NAMES Project AIDS Memorial Quilt, Kenny Baugh, Rice Owls Baseball Team, Mona Hicks, the Women's Resource Center fifth anniversary, Amanda Gor, Megan McGehee, Hilary Young, Desrey Clementine Fox, Michelle Precourt, Sarah Pitre, Lindsay Botsford, Delia Wendel, Kimberly Dawn Riggins, Nia Georges, Rebecca Bergquist, Ilse Guzman, Elle Marie Schollenberger, Michelle Brand, Felicia Cavallini, Lindsay Smith, Tricia Mitchell Kim, Lindsay Germano, Catherine Yi-Yu Cho Woo, and the "Unity in Diversity" week Culture Fair.
Photographs and negatives include: Jake Charkey, Renee Block, Unity in Diversity Week, Stephen Zeff, Malcolm Gillis, John Myung, Yong-Gun Jon, Hyong-Chul Li, Okjuo Myung, Suchan Chae, and Patricia Churchland.
Photographs and negatives include: the Rice Undergraduate Scholars Program, Jim Kinsey, Don Johnson, and Jim Pomerantz.
Photographs and negatives include: Dennis Lee, "Angles and Attitudes: An Exploration of Women" exhibit at Farnsworth Pavilion, Plant Swap, Carolynne White, Pat Kambhu, and the Center for Education Classroom Storytelling Program.
Photographs and negatives include: Nancy Carrasco, Alex Ruiz, Children's Museum of Houston, and the Rice Association of Biologically Inclined Students.
Photographs and negatives include: Frank Lloyd Wright exhibit at the Rice School of Architecture, Greg Hillis, Anne Klein, and "A Midsummer Night's Dream" by the Shepherd School Opera and the Shepherd School Chamber Orchestra.
Photographs and negatives include: Carolyn Hoxby, Beer Bike, Jones College, the Rice Philharmonics, and the Amherst Zumbyes.
Photographs and negatives include: Jared Diamond, and the President's Lecture Series.
Photographs and negatives include: Audrey Ette, the Black Student Association, Racial Solidarity Week, Chandler Davidson, Malcolm Gillis, David French, Gordon Bethune, Ick Jin, the Gulf War exhibit at Baker Institute.
Photographs and negatives include: Guarav Oberoi, the Senior Committee, Katherine Swanson, President of Ireland Mary McAleese, and the Baker Institute.
Photographs and negatives include: John Zammito, Alex Ferrance, Miguel Rodriguez, Anthony Brandt, Richard Spuler, Walter Chapman, Steve Cox, Richard Baraniuk, John Olson, Mickey Quinones, Ian Gruber, and John Ambler.
Photographs and negatives include: Michael Sew Hoy, Robert Jump, Robert Glazewski, Patrick Frantz, Kurt Sanner, Joseph Blocher, Jose Narbona, and commencement.
Photographs and negatives include: Susan Lieberman, Christine Adams, Mark Gardner, Doug Tomlinson, Mary Ruth Kubricht, Richard Stearman, Eugen Radulescu, Eric Valentine, Don Hudlow, Rice University Police Department cleaning up after Tropical Storm Allison, National Bike to Work Day, Greg Marshall, Mark Goldberg, Bill Taylor, Gordon Quan, Ken Nipe, and Robert Stein.
Photographs and negatives include: wooden bench replacement, Fort Bend Independent School District, Mariette Bellamy, Dee Koch, Bernie Mathes, Connie Floyd, Mary Jackson, Rosa Garay, Sherry Ziegner, and Jana Callan.
Photographs and negatives include: O-Week, Adam Stepinski, Rice matriculation, Malcolm Gillis, Zenaido Camacho, and the Ice Cream Social.
Photographs and negatives include: Universidad Zamorano, Kiley Athanasiou, Malcolm Gillis, Albert Kidd, Terry Koonce, Minerva Gonzales, Sandra Veliz, Miraya Gonzales, National Night Out, and the Rice University Police Department.
Photographs and negatives include: Nelson Correa, Hanszen College, Wiess College, the Rice Career Services Center Employer Advisory Board (Center for Career Development), Melissa Waldon, Sharyl Hackett, Cheryl Matherly, Tim Meyer, Bill Burton, Nancy Laidlaw, Jackie Hing, Mark Courtney, Jeff Johannigman, Heidi Glantzberg, Bruce Baehl, Mark Finger, Ken May, and Jeff Andrien.
Photographs and negatives include: Bill Martin, Gavin Parks, Jamie Lisagor, Miles Scotcher, Malcolm Gillis, and 9/11 observance.
Photographs and negatives include: Graduate Student Association blood drive for victims of 9/11, and Alvin R. Tarlov.
Photographs and negatives include: outdoor art classes, Lovett Hall, School of Architecture, and furniture designed by Lars Lerup.
Photographs and negatives include: forum by ADVANCE (Advocating Diversity and the Need for Cultural Exploration) and the Muslim Students Association, patriotism after 9/11, Kathy Felker, David Cook, Mahmoud El-Gamal, Ussama Makdisi, Allen Matusow, and Paula Sanders.
Photographs and negatives include: massages at the health fair for students, and Rebecca Wenham.
Photographs and negatives include: Susan Wood, the Modernist Studies Association, and Marshall Needleman Armintor.
Photographs and negatives include: the second annual Harvest Handoff Food Drive and Baking Contest for the Houston Food Bank, Richard Tapia, and the Recruitment Into College Education Through Minority Scholarships Fund (RICE-TMS) merit scholars.
Photographs and negatives include: Willy's statue wearing a jack-o-lantern for Halloween.
Photographs and negatives include: Andy Barron, the Norman Hackerman Award in Chemical Research, Pierre Jalbert, Alex Knapp, Sara Stevens, School of Architecture, and Pate's Drive In.
Photographs and negatives include: students on 180, the Hispanic Association for Cultural Enrichment at Rice (HACER) Day of the Dead ofrenda for victims of 9/11, Baruch Brody, Shirley Bland, Christine Mueller, Rice Recycles Day, Richard L. Avant of Deloitte and Touche, Malcolm Gillis, and Libby Larsen.
Photographs and negatives include: Mark Ditman, Graduate Student Apartments, Marilyn Hellums, FoFo Lewis, the Holiday Bazaar, Zenaido Camacho, Audrey Ette, Malcom Gillis, and Nambaryn Enkhbayar.
Photographs and negatives include: Julia Benz, Mercedes Flores, Wah Chiu, John Kolb, Malcolm Gillis, John Stobo, John Mendelsohn, Ralph Feigin, Arthur Smith, James Willerson, and Kathleen Matthews.
Photographs and negatives include: Chad Bhatti, Blair Christian, Rudy Fink, Joan Moore, Henny Halliburton, Rayzor Hall, Nursultan Nazarbayev, and Edward Djerejian.
Photographs and negatives include: Gary Smith, Michael Hammond, and Colleen Dutton.
Photographs and negatives include: the Martin Luther King Jr. candlelight vigil, Lee Brown, the Black Student Association, Aliaquanda Derrick, the Melodious Voices of Praise, Rev. Renwick Gilmore, Audrey Ette, Adam Brickman, John Glassmire, and Radio Free Sid.
Photographs and negatives include: Martel College opening, J.D. Bucky Allshouse, D. Kent Anderson, Eric Johnson, Laura Gardner, Science Olympiad, and Cortnie Voncourt.
Photographs and negatives include: Ron Pinkerton, and OwlCon.
Photographs and negatives include: Eliza Lovett Randall, John Boles, Melinda Sue Hutchings, Sara Lowman, Karen Hess Rogers, Edward Djerejian, Vaira Vike-Freiberga, the Women's Resource Center Impact Awards, Jessica Foster, Laura Gardner, Izamara Gamez, Les Hulsey, Shayda Naficy, Audrey Ette, Phillippa Angelides, Rebecca Baldwin, Megan Arendt, Kristine Wallace, Jamie Lisagor, Umbelina Cantu, Kate Floyd, Vianna Davila, Jones College magister house, Alan Grob, Elizabeth Baber, James Castaneda, and Walter Isle.
Photographs and negatives include: John Elliot, Department of Kinesiology, Jose Enrique Cruz, Hunter Brown, Enrique Barrera, and the Say YES To a Youngster's Future program with the Houston Independent School District.
Photographs and negatives include: Lunar New Year, the Rice Chinese Student Association, and the Rice Baseball team.
Photographs and negatives include: Autry Court construction, Julia Amborski, Thomas Hammond, Malcolm Gillis, and Shepherd School tributes to Michael Hammond.
Photographs and negatives include: the annual Culture Fair, Dan DeHanas, Akiko Hosokawa, Beer Bike, Bucky Allshouse, Cokie Roberts, and Steve Roberts.
Photographs and negatives include: Ryan Harlan, Ruthann Gairdner, Disability Support Services, Rebecca Perry, Malcolm Gillis, the Houston Technology Forum, Neal Lane, Richard Smalley, Jim Tour, and Jennifer West.
Photographs and negatives include: Malcolm Gillis, Kay Bailey Hutchison, and Ray Miller.
CD and photographs include: Bond Kick Off pictures, and the dedication of Martel College.
Photographs, CD, and negatives include: James Burke, Malcolm Gillis, Kaye Stripling, David Minter, Good Morning America, Christel Miller, and Jaime Rios.
Photographs and negatives include: Phil Bedient.
Photographs and negatives include: John Ambler, William Camfield, John Dennis, Steven Cox, Michael Gustin, Chandler Davidson, John Zammito, Terrence Doody, Mikki Hebl, Keith Krumwiede, 15th Annual Art Car Parade, and the Marching Owl Band.
Photographs and negatives include: Kristin Krukenberg, Allison Dennis, Jennie Kaya, Elizabeth Baber, and Sarah Lowman.
Photographs and negatives include: annual Bike-to-Work Day.
Photographs and negatives not currently available.
Photographs include: Ken Hatfield, Dana Dimel, the Gulf Coast Regional Blood Center's 2002 Administaff Bayou Bucket Blood Drive, Rice University new Web site, Rice matriculation, O-Week, and John Hutchinson.
Photographs and negatives include: Les Hulsey, Phil Hassell, and Farrel Locklin.
Photographs and negatives include: George Hirasaki, Jiansheng Chen, and Ken Nipe.
Photographs and contents include: September 11 memorial, Rice Chorale, Skye Donovan, Thomas Jaber, Germany's "Golden Twenties" exhibit through Rice's Goethe Center.
Photographs and negatives include: Jones Graduate School of Management dedication, L.E. Simmons, D. Kent Anderson, Malcolm Gillis, Gilbert Whitaker, Bernard Fields, and E. William Barnett.
Photographs and negatives include: Teveia Barnes, Mary Lou Margrave, the Faculty Women's Club, the Graduate Loan Closet, Malcolm Gillis, Helen Toombs, and the Conference for Rice Alumni Leaders.
Photographs and negatives include: James Prohaska, John Boles, the Century Scholars program, Alan Pham, and the "Smackdown the Vote" event.
Photographs and negatives include: Melissa Raz, Jill Ponasik, Denise Stom, Dalma Boronkai, Brenda Arredondo, Aracely Morales, Rice's English as a Second Language Tutoring Program, and the new Wiess college.
Photographs and negatives include: the Shepherd School of Music, Enso Quartet, Tereza Stanislav, Maureen Nelson, Robert Brophy, Richard Belcher, and Harold Shapiro.
Photographs and negatives include: the Harvest Handoff and Baking Contest.
Photographs and negatives include: Grant Sazuki, and the "Bamboo Roof" installation at the Rice University Art Gallery by Shigeru Ban.
Photographs include: Lisa Fikes, Andrew Cates, Rice student athletes, the Elizabeth Gillis Award for Exemplary Service, Suzanne King, Elizabeth Gillis, Sue Hutchings, Yao Ming, Malcolm Gillis, Deloitte and Touche, Amy Sutton, Jill Thompson, Richard Avant, and Susan Sample.
Photographs and negatives include: Jen Cooper, Rice Women's Soccer, and Malcolm Gillis.
Photographs include: the Shepherd School Wind/Piano Quintet, Chris Shelburne, Jennifer Driskill, Meagan Walker, Erin Irvine, Jitka Frankova, Gordon Quan, Rice Philharmonics, Courtney Dow, Emily Matuzek, Andrew Engroff, and Spontaneous Combustion.
Photographs and negatives include: Zenaido Camacho, Malcolm Gillis, and the finals study break.
Photographs include: demolition of Old Wiess College, Kathleen Matthews, Robert Curl, and Nexus.
Photographs include: Andrew Barron and Kathleen Matthews.
Photographs and CD include: maps of Rice's building plans, Martin Luther King Jr candlelight vigil, Black Student Association, Jonathan Chism, Lani Guinier, and Malcolm Gillis.
Photographs include: new Brown College commons.
Photographs include: Jan Odegard, Rice Terascale Cluster, and Stephen Gray.
Photographs include: James Gaffigan, the Women's Resource Center seventh anniversary, Impact Awards, Rob Lentz, Crystal Su, Jessica Pena, Sarah Cloots, Nydia Mendoza, Elizabeth Pienkos, Raj Wahi, and Heather Masden.
Photographs include: Richard Smalley.
Photographs include: Rice's Shell Center for Sustainability inaugural conference, Malcolm Gillis, Sir Philip Watts, Paula Dobriansky, Guy Hascoet, and Arthur Danto.
Photographs include: Guillermo Fays, and Springfest.
Photographs include: spring azaleas, Eve Bower, and Locks of Love.
Photographs include: Fred Thompson, and the 50th anniversary of the Rice Associates Society.
Photographs include: Ben Fonbuena, RiceFest, and Jenny Usakovsky.
Photographs include: Steven L. Miller, James A. Baker III, Malcolm Gillis, Bill Broyles, and Andy Icken.
Photographs include: Mikki Hebl.
Photographs and CD include: Erin Mann, Malcolm Gillis, Terry Koonce, William Barnett, James Elkins, James Crownover, William Sick, Steven Miller, and ExxonMobile.
Photographs include: Marty Merritt, the Science Academy of South Texas summer internship, Sandra Bulick, Kelly Bates, Pete Martinez, and Sandra Veliz.
Photographs include: Ken Nipe, Rape Aggression Defense, Lilly Bonner, Rick Schroder, Susan Hodge, and Malcolm Gillis.
Photographs include: observation of 9/11, the Rice Chorale, and Thomas Jaber.
Photographs include: Joe Arevalo, and Leonel Rivera.
Photographs include: Helmut Kohl, Susan Baker, James A. Baker III, the Berlin Wall, Malcolm Gillis, and the Rice observatory.
Photographs and CD include: Linda Ellerbee, Naomi Halas, and Jennifer West.
Photographs include: Kim Davenport, and "Ephemeral city: Cite Looks at Houston" essay cover.
Photographs include: Olusegun Obasanjo, and the Baker Institute for Public Policy.
Photographs and slides include: Amartya Sen, Richard Smalley, Robert Curl, and a Rice Owls football fan.
Photographs, CD, and negatives include: Will Conrad, the academic quad, Jane Callan, Zenaido Camacho, the Holiday Bazaar, Jim Von Ehr, Robert Curl, and Richard Smalley.
Photographs include: International Education Week,and Harriet Fulbright.
Photographs include: tree house in the quad, and Nyameko Barney Pityana.
Photographs include: the Marching Owl Band in MTV's "Rock'N Jock Super Bowl XXXVIII", Leira Moreno, Hilda Rich, Hershel Rich, Malcolm Gillis, and the opening of the new Health and Wellness Center.
Photographs include: Malcolm Gillis, Lessie Celestine, and Asa Hutchinson.
Photographs include: David Leebron, Malcolm Gillis, Norman Hackerman, and George Will.
Photographs and negatives include: Robert Samuelson.
Photographs include: Noorain Khan.
Photographs include: James A. Baker III, Hosni Mubarak, and Edward Djerejian.
Photographs include: Malcolm Gillis, Elizabeth Gillis, William Barnett, Milton Boniuk, Carol Quillen, and Anders Fogh Rasmussen.
Photographs include: Joel Wolfe, Elizabeth Long, Brian Gibson, James Brown, and Lynne Huffer.
Photographs include: Tom Lytle, and electric trains.
Photographs include: Rudy Giulani, and James A. Baker III.
Scope and Content
This collection comprises records of the Kiwanis Club of Houston's board of directors, committees, projects, finances, conventions, and retired members, as well as records from the Kiwanis Foundation of Houston, the Kiwanis Texas-Oklahoma District, and Kiwanis International. It includes audio recordings, DVD, Beta, and VHS recordings, nearly 1000 photographs, and ephemera such as posters, banners, flags, and awards. The collection reflects the history of the club from its founding in 1919 into the 21st century. Series I: Board of Directors Series II: Committees Series III: Projects and Fund Raisers Series IV: Club Finances Series V: Awards Series VI: Conventions Series VII: Bulletins Series VIII: Retired and Deceased Members Series IX: Foundation Series X: Texas-Oklahoma District Series XI: Kiwanis International Series XII: Correspondence Series XIII: Legal Documents Series XIV: Ephemera Series XV: Photographs Series XVI: Audio Cassettes Series XVII: Videos and DVDs Series XVIII: Awards Series XIX: Kiwanis Club Administration Series XX: Financial records Series XXI: Membership Series XXII: Events Series XXIII: Grants Series XXIV: Kiwanis International Series XXV: Memorabilia
Three leaves of rare 13th and 15th century Catholic liturgical manuscripts, hand drawn and beautifully illustrated on vellum.
1. Leaf from a Bible, Paris, middle third of the 13th century: Illuminated vellum manuscript leaf with an unusual and especially appealing historiated initial showing King Ahasuerus, Esther, and Mordecai, all connected by a handman's rope, from a Bible in Latin. Text from the opening through the first three chapters of Esther. (Paris, middle third of the 13th century) 248 x 152 mm. (9.75" x 6").
2. "Beatus" leaf from a Psalter in Latin, Southern Netherlands, late 13th century: Illuminated vellum manuscript with a fine historiated initial showing scenes from the life of King David and with a decorative border including a hunting scene. Text from Psalm 1:1 - 2:8. Southern Netherlands [possibly Saint-Omer], late 13th century, 140x102mm (5.5"x4").
3. Leaf from a Book of Hours, Bruges, circa 1460: Illuminated vellum manuscript leaf with a miniature of the death of the Virgin, from a Book of Hours in Latin. 218 x 152 mm (8 5/8 x 6").
Dealer description:
Illuminated vellum manuscript leaf with an unusual and especially appealing historiated initial showing King Ahasuerus, Esther, and Mordecai, all connected by a hangman's rope, from a Bible in Latin. Text from the opening through the first three chapters of Esther. (Paris, middle third of the 13th century) 248 x 152 mm. (9.75" x 6"). Double column, 55 lines of text in a very small, pleasing gothic book hand. Capitals struck with red, chapter numbers and headlines in red and blue, two prominent chapter initials in red or blue with elaborate penwork in the same two colors, and one side with a fine historiated initial telling the story of Esther and Mordecai, the main part of the capital in three compartments (measuring, together, approximately 60 x 8 mm) at the top of the column and with a marginal extender stretching the entire length of the text. Faint marginal discoloration, minor soiling and rumpling, generally in nearly fine condition. This is a remarkably engaging early Bible leaf with an initial that is replete with narrative communicated in an unusually imaginative visual manner. The Book of Esther tells the story of how the faithful court official Mordecai is saved from being hanged at the hands of the Persian king Ahasuerus' treacherous minister Haman. And it tells of the successful attempt made by the Jewish queen Esther to save her people from Haman's edict of extermination, an order prompted by the fact that Mordecai, a Jew, refuses to prostrate himself in Haman's presence. Our initial seems to conflate the two stories in a clever and artful way. In the bottom compartment of the long initial "I," we see Mordecai, dressed only in tatters from waist to knees, with a noose around his neck. He is done entirely in white against a magenta background, a depiction that suggests his impending lifelessness (there is also a tiny dragon nipping at his feet). The rope stretches upward through the floor of the middle compartment and into the top compartment, where the regally attired king sits with both hands grasping the deadly cord. A good firm tug, and Mordecai is dead. But in the crucial middle compartment sits Esther, who also grasps the rope in such a way as to provide the critical slack necessary to save the would-be victim. As in seen here, the historization of Bibles produced during the 13th century tends to relate to the text in some specific way (though there are also a certain proportion of generic figures). What is infrequently seen is the incorporation of multiple elements of the story. And what is even more uncommon is the case, as here, where the artist takes imaginative liberties with his subject in an effective visual way in order to emphasize something grand and inherently difficult to portray - like a queen saving her people. (ST11316)
Description provided by dealer:
Illuminated vellum manuscript with a fine historiated initial showing scenes from the life of King David and with a decorative border including a hunting scene. Text from Psalm 1:1 - 2:8. Southern Netherlands [possibly Saint-Omer], late 13th century, 140x102mm (5.5"x4"). Single column, 19 lines in an excellent gothic liturgical hand. Versal initials in red or blue, three line blue initial on verso with wispy red penwork elaboration in the form of delicately drawn ivy leaves extending into three margins (slightly trimmed at the top). RECTO with a wonderfully animated 12-line historiated "B" (60 x 55mm) in pink and white tracery, the initial on a ground of blue and pink knotwork, the upper compartment containing a miniature of King David harping in his palace (the towers of which poke through into the head margin), and the lower compartment showing the young David about to behead the giant Goliath, who is attired in a tunic and chainmail, both scenes in colors on a burnished gold ground, the initial with branching leafy border extending into all four margins, the border composed of blue and pink bars with twining leaves and berries in pink, blue and orange at the corners, a bas-de-page scene of a hunter with a horn and bow accompanied by two hounds pursuing a leaping stag, one blue bird flying up along the fore-edge margin and another perched atop the initial, pecking at a berry, a delightful lion dozing on the very top of the text, his improbably long tail extending down 13 lines. Gold mostly lost now (revealing white gesso), script a little difficult to read because of fading or erosion, a number of very tiny holes where ink has eaten through the vellum, other minor defects, but none of these imperfections fatal, the vellum generally well preserved, and the original appeal of the dynamic leaf still largely intact. This is the extremely charming opening leaf of a very fine early gothic Psaltrer with spirited decoration, doubtless made for lay use. The scene in the lower margin shows a stag hunt, probably very familiar from the world of a patron. The subject and composition of the Beatus initial, with two scenes from David's life, became characteristic of the Southern Netherlands, especially in Ghent and Saint-Omer (cf. G. Haselhoff, "Die Psalterillustration im 13. Jahrhundert," pp. 112-122, and K. Carlvant, "Manuscript Painting in Thirteen-Century Flanders, Bruges, Ghent and the Circle of the COunts," p. 341.) The theme of Psalm 1 is the triumph of righteousness over evil, and the beheading of Goliath was an appropriate motif. Similarly, the lion, crouching at the upper right here, had been a common theme for Psalm 1 in romanesque Psalters. The delicate style loosely resembles that of the manuscripts clustered around the Psalter of Guy de Dampierre (Brussels, B.R., MS 10607), ca. 1265-70, but it was imitated elsewhere, including at Saint-Omer (ibid., chapter 9, pp. 137-44). (ST12564)
Dealer description: Mounted on a later sheet of vellum. A large rectangular miniature depicting the Virgin Mary on her deathbed, surrounded by the Apostles, this enclosed by a wide and ornate bar border in pink and blue with gold tracery, the frame outlined in burnished gold and with floral cornerpieces in colors and gold, this within a full floral border filled many leaves and flowers in color and gold. All four ruled margins trimmed away (with some loss at each edge), minor flaking of gold from cornerpieces and from the green robe of an Apostle, otherwise in fine condition. The scene here is affecting and beautifully rendered, with much detail. The pale Virgin lies in her pink and blue robes on a fine bedstead with rich red pillows and counterpane embroidered in gold, one hand lifted in benediction. Saint Joan hovers by the head of the bed, while Saint Peter in a blue and gold cape administers the last rites. Two other Apostles kneel on the green tessellated floor beside the bed, while the others crowd into the stone bedroom with mullioned windows and vaulted red ceiling. It is the very definition of a gentle death, surrounded by loved ones, assured of salvation - the type of end aspired to by the Christians who used this prayer book. Although the perspective in the foreground is too rudimentary to make us believe that the Virgin is actually taking up space on an actual bed, the depth of the inner chamber is convincing, and the delicate faces are all extremely well done. (ST12994-001)
This collection is a subset of a wider gathering of Roy M. Huffington's personal and professional papers. The materials here reflect his time as Ambassador to Austria and the many connections made during his appointment. It includes office records, reports, correspondence, and photographs from the American embassy in Austria, as well as records from the Salzburg Institute, Geological Society of America Foundation, and the American Austrian Foundation. Series are composed of records mostly in their original order, though some records were rearranged to reflect their significance or to create more intuitive groupings. While the first series pertains specifically to Huffington's service as Ambassador to Austria, all but one of the subsequent series are based on particular organizations, such as the Salzburg Seminar and the Council of American Ambassadors. Users of this collection should bear in mind that while Huffington's involvement with most of these organizations began due to his service as Ambassador, his interest and involvement in them continued well past the end of his appointment, and consequently the bulk of the records of these series were not generated during that time.
Oral history interviews of the Zoroastrian Association of Houston members, conducted in Houston, Texas, in 2014-2016. Formats include interview transcripts, photographs and streaming audio, as well consent forms signed by the interviewees allowing online sharing of these materials.
Transcript, photographs, and interview consent form.
Transcript, photographs, interview consent form, and additional documents from Erani.
Transcript, photographs, and interview consent form.
Photographs and interview consent form. No transcript currently available.
This collection contains papers generated by Quan's political career, as well as papers and newspaper clippings relating to his work with local charities and committees. Also included are various memorabilia, items relating to the local Houston Asian American communities and a variety of awards received by Quan.
This collection contains track memorabilia of Paul Hurshel Sanders. Included are several medals, trophies, track shoes, Rice sweater, athletic letters, batons, and scrapbooks of newspaper clippings. The memorabilia includes medals from track events Sanders won during high school and college. Among these medals are several from the Drake Relay, Southwest Athletic Conference, Oklahoma State Interscholastic, and Texas Relay.
This collection includes a list of potential candidates, candidate CVs, an outline of the search goals, and the final offer letter and background check for the selected candidate.
These records, dated from 1977-2010, have been divided into three subseries, each dealing with different aspects of Schneider's career and works. These subseries include letters, e-mails, papers, department data, and evaluations involving Schneider and other faculty within the Psychology Department.
These records mainly include information on the construction of the Ley Student Center, renovations of the Rice Memorial Center, and art exhibits, at Rice University.
These papers include research files, course materials, selected student papers, and documents related to the daily and annual business of the sociology department, including financial reports, departmental memos, faculty evaluations, and correspondence. In addition there are drafts, typescripts, and published articles written by Elizabeth Long.
This series contains subject files organized numerically 1-158 by the creator. They have been organized to maintain the original order. An index to the files is located in folder 1. Course files located in this series may also be found in Series III: Course Files.
This series contains current files organized numerically by the creator. They have been organized to maintain the original order. An index to the files is located in folder 1.
Group of ten letters, dated 1960-1966, written by Julian Huxley to Anita Loos, all with excellent content and many quite lengthy. He writes about himself, his brother Aldous Huxley, and about Anita Loos' plays and work. There is also a long letter written by Juliette Huxley to Anita Loos, and another letter by Julian to a Mrs. A. Sullivan, about Pasternak.
The Lambiotte Family/Francis Poulenc archive contains materials that document Poulenc's life and career during his long friendship with the Lambiotte family, a Belgian family with close ties of friendship to the composer. The collection includes autograph musical manuscripts, signed and inscribed printed musical scores, letters, photographs, publications, and ephemera. Dates for the collection range from 1920 to 1994, with bulk dates from 1920 to 1963.
The complete reduced score, used by the printer for publication.
[2] (title) + 34 + [10 (blank) + 11 + [1] (blank) + 30 + 1 ("Fin Nouvelle") + [2] (blank) pp. Folio. Notated in black and red inks. Some annotations in pencil; occasional erasures and minor corrections. Dedicated to Wanda Landowska. White vellum. With autograph letter from Poulenc to Richard Chanlaire dated May 10, 1929 incorporating 4-bar autograph musical quotation.
A working draft.
49 + iv (titles) + [2] (blank) pp. Folio. Notated in pencil on 58 leaves with titling in ink. Written on one side of the leaf only on music manuscript paper with "1106" at lower right margin of some leaves. Many leaves guarded at inner margin. Black boards. Together with an autograph letter from Poulence laid in.
An important manuscript demonstrating the creative process.
Two-piano reduction.
[2] (title) + 42 + [7] (blank) pp. Folio. Notated in blue, black and red inks. Some corrections and erasures; several additions in pencil; slight smudging where corrections were executed. Black boards.
Used by the printer for publication.
[1] (title) + 6 + [1] (blank) pp. Folio. Notated in black ink. Some erasures.
Black boards. There are 8 Nocturnes in the series.
The only known autograph of the work.
[2] + 15 + [3] (blank) pp. Folio. Notated in ink. Some autograph corrections in pencil. Black boards.
The only known autograph of the work.
4 pp. Folio. Notated in black ink. A few erasures. Slightly browned. Dedication changed to 'Curie." Black boards.
Used by the printer for publication.
1f. (recto title, verso text of poem) + [2] + [2] (blank) pp. Folio. One erasure. With envelope. Black boards.
[2] (title) + 3 + 1 (blank) pp. Folio. With occasional erasures and additions. Black boards. Together with a 2-page autograph letter signed.
The only known autograph of the work.
For male chorus a cappella
Used by the printer for publication.
[2] (title) + 10 pp. Folio. Score. 4 numbers, complete, each dated. With short sketch to verso of title. Embossed stamp of "Flammarion Magasin de Musique" to foot of first page of music, plate number to foot of some pages. With several minor corrections. Date to title and some annotations apparently added at a later date. Black boards.
The only known autograph of the work.
[2] + 4 + 2 pp. Folio. A few minor corrections and erasures. With an inscription signed "Poupoule" (Poulenc's nickname); also signed "Francis Poulenc." Dedicated to Edith Piaf. Black boards.
The only known autograph of the work.
Green boards. [1] (title), 2-19 pp. Copyright 1928, 1930. Slightly browned.
Black cloth with printed wrappers bound in. 8 pp. Copyright 1920. Inscribed Poulenc's friend, the musicologist Pierre Aubry.
Black cloth. 1f. (title) + 10 pp. Copyright 1920.
With a long autograph inscription to first page of music signed.
Green boards. [1] (title), 2-7 pp. Copyright 1944. With offset from inscription to verso of free front endpaper. Browned and slightly brittle.
Green boards. [1] (title), 2-19 pp. Copyright 1940. Slightly browned
Green boards. 1f. (title), 9 pp. PN R.L. 12, 174, copyright 1944. Browned and brittle; offsetting to verso of free front endpaper.
Green boards with printed wrappers bound in. 7 pp. Copyright 1945.
Green boards. [1] (title), 2-3 pp. music. Copyright 1935. Browned. Not inscribed.
Original printed wrappers. 1f. (title), 1f. (index), 23 pp. Copyright 1937. Slightly browned.
Black cloth. 1f. (title), 4 pp. Copyright 1958. Slightly browned. Together with another copy laid in, copyright 1958, and a copy of the 15e Improvisation, copyright 1960, neither of the additional copies inscribed.
Green boards. [1] (title), 2-9 pp. Copyright 1947. Slightly browned.
Paris: Senart [PN E.M.S. 6602], copyright 1924. Poems include:
i. La nègre
ii. Locutions
iii. Souvenirs d'enfance
iv. Ex voto
v. Une danseuse
vi. MadameFolio. Black boards with leather title label, original wrappers printed in blue bound in with original drawing to upper and with autograph inscription by Honegger: "pour Hilde son Arthur." Title heavily illustrated in ink by both Poulenc and Honegger and with autograph inscription to Hilde Gélis-Didot signed by Poulenc and dated "[?] Steredenn Vor 1927." [1] (title), 2-11, [1] (blank) pp. Browned. Some offsetting to page 2 (title). Spratt 45 (p. 520).
Scope and Contents Paris: Juilliard [1954]. With inscription to half title.
Inscribed by Poulenc, 1958.
Inscribed to Madame Auguste Lambiotte by Poulenc, Christmas 1945.
Inscribed by Poulenc.
An important archive consisting of approximately 100 letters (approximately 225 pages) spanning the years 1946 to 1962. The correspondence relates to musical matters including Poulenc's own works and performances and performers of such, other composers, reminiscences, travel plans, and, at times, personal commentary regarding his attitudes, friends and associates, etc. The materials present a comprehensive overview offering significant insight into Poulenc's life, both as composer and individual, over some 16 years. The primary recipients of the letters are Madame Rose Lambiotte (1891-1964), sometimes referred to in the correspondence as "Mme. Chapdelaine," her daughter Rosine, and, occasionally, Rose's husband Auguste Lambiotte. The family lived in Belgium and Poulenc often stayed with them, referring to them as "his Belgian family." The correspondence files include letters as well as cards, photographs, and newsclippings which were included in the correspondence.
Includes painted silk scarf with music manuscript as part of design, programs, messages, letters and listings of Poulenc manuscript holdings and sales
This collection consists primarily of correspondence for the years 1961 to 1968 and budget records for fiscal years 1965 through 1969. Also included are a legal brief (John Coffee et al. v. Rice University), correspondence concerning the Rice University Semicentennial, and the Certificate of Merit for Distinction in Physics presented to Dr. Houston.
This collection consists of the schedule of the commencement ceremony, a script of the ceremony, the seating plan, the marching order of faculty participants, a rain plan, a degree listing by candidates, and committee reports, most for the 1986 ceremony.
The holding consists of an Indentured Servant Contract between the Duke of Chandos and one George Harvey, a parchment document, approximately 23 x 29 inches in size, in English and dated 1761, setting forth the terms of the indenture.
This material includes publicity, ephemera, dedication event photos and more, related to works of art on the Rice University campus. The James Turrell skyspace known as "Twilight Epiphany" is particularly well represented here.
The digital object for this file contains simple born-digital jpg image files taken at this event.
The digital object for this file contains simple born-digital jpg images of the statue dedication event.
This collection contains typescripts, proofs, correspondence, microfilm, and notecards of Madeleine Alcover for her critical editions and studies on Cyrano de Bergerac; Cyrano's family, as well as his writer-friends Charles d'Assoucy, Le Royer de Prades, Henry Le Bret, and others. The collection also contains documents and correspondence related to Alcover's academic career.
The Jesse H. Jones Family and Personal Papers, consisting of 92 boxes, detail the lives of individual Jones family members and are highlighted by the Jesse H. Jones personal papers consisting of correspondence, photographs, financial, legal, speeches and business records, as well as the political, civic-related and public service records for which Jones is well known. Of interest is Jones' World War II service as Secretary of Commerce and head of the Reconstruction Fianance Corporation, and his involvement with the building of the Houston Ship Channel and the 1928 Democratic National Convention held in Houston. An extensive collection of individual, group, event photographs, and photographs and drawings detailing many of the extant buildings in downtown Houston is included.
This digitized video file consists of one master copy mp4, one access copy mp4, and jpegs of the VHS as well as transfer metadata.
This digitized video file consists of one master copy mp4, one access copy mp4, and jpegs of the VHS as well as transfer metadata.
This digitized video file consists of one master copy mp4, one access copy mp4, and jpegs of the VHS as well as transfer metadata.
This digitized video file consists of one master copy mp4, one access copy mp4, and jpegs of the VHS as well as transfer metadata.
This digitized video file consists of one master copy mp4, one access copy mp4, and jpegs of the VHS as well as transfer metadata.
This digitized audio file consists of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpegs of the record as well as transfer metadata. lp_01 which comprised part 1 and 2 of the speech was damaged and could not be digitized.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpegs of the record as well as transfer metadata.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpegs of the record as well as transfer metadata.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpegs of the record as well as transfer metadata. Digitized discs include parts 5, 6, 9, 10. All others were broken.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpegs of the record as well as transfer metadata.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpegs of the record as well as transfer metadata.
This digitized audio file consists of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpegs of the record as well as transfer metadata.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpegs of the record as well as transfer metadata.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpegs of the record as well as transfer metadata.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpegs of the record as well as transfer metadata.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpegs of the record as well as transfer metadata.
The M.T. Jones Lumber Co. Records & Business Ledgers, 1890-1920, consist of business records, correspondence, letterpress books, invoices, orders, shipping records, and ledgers for the daily operations and administration of the lumber company for Texas, Oklahoma, New Mexico, Arizona and Colorado.
Original Introduction and Arrangement
INTRODUCTION
In mid-December, 1992, architectural historian Barrie Scardino and I met with Houston Endowment President, Joe Nelson, on the fifth floor of the Bankers Mortgage Building, in what was once Jesse Jones's office. At that time, Ms. Scardino and I were assigned the job of creating an archive from a maze of documents and photographs that had been retrieved from the building's faded green file cabinets, old painted safes and walk-in vaults. Little did we know that the stacks of plain, white bankers boxes arrayed before us were filled with treasures from Houston's past and would reveal rare insight into Mr. Jones's public, business and personal lives.
Houston Endowment had recently moved its offices to the Texas Commerce Tower and had emptied Bankers Mortgage Building of its few remaining tenants, leaving behind these remarkable relics for Ms. Scardino and I to organize and preserve. We established a work space in that same fifth floor office, in the vacant, ten story building on Main Street Mr. Jones built back in 1908 for the Texas Company. As the mass of material slowly took form, our awareness of Mr. Jones's philosophies, achievements and contributions also began to emerge.
About one year later, we moved the evolving archive to Houston Endowment's new office and went to work in one of the conference rooms. Ms. Scardino completed her portion of the project in May of 1994, and, before leaving, created an index to the archive's personal papers. I remained and continued to work on the Foundation's exhibit, which I began soon after we moved into the new building. In January of 1995, it was decided that similar material, housed in temporary storage, should be included in the collection's corporate and property records. (Folders containing this material have stars on the left corner to distinguish them from the more specifically categorized and refined original material.) Now that this task has been accomplished, the archive is complete.
The accompanying indexes are general guides to provide easy access to the collection's documents. The alphabetically listed corporate and property records may not adhere to that arrangement within a box due to the material's varying shapes and sizes. An explanation of certain entries in the corporate and property indexes follows:
BOOK OF ACCOUNT--includes ledgers and journals
DATES--indicate the age range of documents within each entry, even though they may relate to an event that occurred on a specific date, such as a loan or sale
Franchise and income tax dates indicate the years taxes were incurred
Gaps in dates indicate missing documents
Stock book dates indicate the years during which stock was issued
Articles of incorporation dates indicate the day the corporate officers signed the incorporation papers (articles of incorporation sometimes appear as a separate document; may appear in the front of the minute book; or, if there are two or more minute books, may appear with the dissolution certificate in the last book)
Dissolution certificate dates indicate the day the state issued the certificate
VARIOUS DOCUMENTS--includes contracts, correspondence, deeds, inventories, maps and receipts
VARIOUS BUILDINGS, VARIOUS CORPORATIONS, VARIOUS PROPERTIES-
Includes documents involving two or more entities
In the Texas counties where Mr. Jones conducted significant building programs, the property records have been sub-divided into city blocks with their corresponding buildings. Because Mr. Jones invested primarily in Harris County, the volume and scope of the material dictated that the collection be further divided by leagues, surveys, additions and sub-divisions as well as blocks. Only property records involving New York City are organized by address.
This collection embodies a large part of Houston's history. It includes documents involving Stephen F. Austin, the Allen Brothers and, from the more recent past, many notable people, buildings and events. It includes papers from M. T. Jones's vast lumber empire, the business that fueled his nephew Jesse's profound impact on Houston's development and growth. This archive also encompasses the source of one of Mr. Jones's most lasting legacies, Houston Endowment Inc., a legacy that perpetuates his positive influence on our world today.
Steven L. Fenberg
July 14, 1995
The collection includes individual files for Rice related persons (faculty, students, alumni, staff, significant visitors), events, programs, traditions, campus artworks, organizations, buildings, and subjects.
The formats include newsclippings, notes, correspondence, photographs, and other materials. The contents are donated by Rice community members and/or gathered by the Woodson Research Staff, and represent one of the most heavily used portions of the University Archives.
Folder 1: 1922-1946; Folder 2: 1947-
Photograph: J. A. Fuller
Contains information from Caleb McDaniel marking the change of Master to Magister.
This folder includes copies of the printed scores for Rice's Honor, Song of the Owls, the Rice Owl Fight Song, the Rice Hymn, and articles about Rice songs and traditions.
1923 Photo
The papers of biochemist and cell biologist Frederick (Fred) Rudolph (1944-2003) document his 31 years on the faculty of Rice University and his tenure as director of Rice's Institute of Biosciences and Bioengineering. Topics include Rudolph's research, grant projects, patents, courses taught, departmental administration, and committee service. Formats include reports, notes, charts, correspondence, slides, and photographs. Rudolph's work led to the discovery that several key nucleotides needed by infants for healthy immune function were missing from standard baby formula, leading every major producer of baby formula to add those ingredients.
Notes, lab charts, copies of published articles, correspondence.
Applications, reports, budget information, correspondence for grants in which Dr. Rudolph was involved either as Principle Investigator or some other capacity. Funding agencies include National Institute of Health, DuPont, Welch Foundation, National Science Foundation, Eisenhower, Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Energy, Glaxo, and the Howard Hughes Medical Institute.
Correspondence and research.
Course syllabi and evaluations, student work, correspondence, departmental administrative files, including the regular business and renovation of Keck Hall (Chemistry) on the Rice campus. Includes files on the national Kaleidoscope educational project.
Rice University committees and other regional or national committees on which Rudolph served, generally relating to education.
Most appear to have been used for classroom purposes.
Items from Rudolph's desk, including rolodex, campus parking pass, and more.
This collection includes individual files for photographs of Rice related persons, photographs of Rice University views, interiors, and buildings, photographs of Rice related events, and more.
The contents are donated by Rice community members and/or gathered by the Woodson Research Staff, and represent one of the most heavily used portions of the University archives.
This collection contains the professional files of Rice University professor of Musicology Marcia Citron. The collection contains essays, journals, newsclippings, magazines, programs, correspondence, conference ephemera, etc.
The collection contains administrative records of the Houston Chapter of the IAAP from its
founding in 1948 through 2003. Committee reports, correspondence, scrapbooks, photographs,
and newsclippings pertain to the chapter's activities. There are also materials from
regional and national associations represented in the collection.
Contemporary manuscript report of German composer and music critic Robert Schumann's conducting at Düsseldorf, written by W. Wortmann, deputy mayor of Düsseldorf and a leading member of the administration of the Allgemeiner Musikverein (of whose orchestra and chorus Schumann had been appointed director in 1850). The central item in this collection is a remarkable contemporary manuscript report of Schumann's conducting at Dusseldorf, written by W. Wortmann, deputy mayor of Düsseldorf and a leading member of the administration of the Allgemeiner Musikverein (of whose orchestra and chorus Schumann had been appointed director in 1850).
Additional items include small portraits of Robert and Clara Schumann and brief correspondence related to Schumann.
This collection consists of materials accumulated by a major alumni supporter of Rice athletics over sixty years. Many of the items involve the R Association, the organization to which all varsity athletes can belong. There are correspondence files about dues, yearly banquets, and other activities. Included is the R Association roster from 1912 to 1952. There are membership lists of the R Association Hall of Fame, the Quarterback Club (1998, 2004), and the Student Owl Club (2004-05). Also included are the R Association by-laws and the certificate form for an R Association Honorary Member. In addition to the R Association items, there are materials about various projects to raise funds for athletics, e.g. a 1998 Phone-a-thon, baseball Dollars for Dingers (2004), the baseball commemorative brick campaign (2007), and For Rice's Honor programs. Records of the budget, fund raising, and insurance of the Owl Club are also included. Widely ranging particular events are represented, such as Homecoming 1954, Rice Day 1959, Letterman's Day 1997, the reunion of 1930 to 1939 football players in 1998, the Association of Rice Alumni Pre-Game Parties in 1999, an Owl Club retreat in 2000, Red Bale dinners, a San Antonio Athletics Alumni Reception in 2006, the Blue and Gray Weekend in 2006, and Rodeo Nights in 1997, 1998, and 2001. Programs from specific events include Track and Field Programs from 1925-26, the 1950's, 1962, and 1974; the 2000 Baseball Schedule; and the 1970 Southwest Conference Championship. There are copies of an athletics newsletter titled Talon, as well as random newsclips. Finally, the collection includes envelopes of memorabilia from the 1930's 1940's, 1950's, 1960's and 1970's. There are some of Stancliff's personal letters, as well as his honors and awards from the R Association. A folder marked "Rice Stadium" contains diagrams and information about the financing dated 1951.
Correspondence, reports, research notes, and photographs created and/or maintained by Mr. Reginald Moore, relating to the history of the Convict Leasing System in Sugar Land, Texas and current efforts to publicly recognize that history. The reports included in this collection are in some cases publicly available, but are difficult to access. Correspondence includes letters and emails between Mr. Moore and various public officials and other interested parties such as archaeologist Fred McGhee.
Includes "An Archeological Survey of the Proposed Brazos River Corridor Park (Phase 1), City of Sugar Land, Fort Bend County, Texas, Texas Antiquities Permit No. 3383" May 2004, by Moore Archeological Consulting Inc.
Includes December 2014 letter from the office of Texas Senator Joan Huffman acknowledging receipt of Mr. Moore's fax and phone calls; December 2014 letter from the office of the Texas Senate Criminal Justice Committee including Senator John Whitmire and Senator Joan Huffman, thanking Mr. Moore for his recent letter requesting an apology from the state regarding the convict leasing system. Also includes a letter from Mr. Moore dated October 2013, to Ms. Dede Keith of the Office of the Governor (Rick Perry) requesting an apology from the state regarding the convict leasing system. The Governor's office suggests working with the Texas Historical Commission on this issue.
2007 correspondence regarding whether the Old Imperial Farm Cemetery is in the Battle or Hodge League survey, and a copy of the 2001 "Archaeological Reconnaisance of High Probability Areas in the Texas Department of Criminal Justice Harlem Prison Farm Tract, Fort Bend, County, Texas," as well as a copy of the "Historic American Building Survey Texas Central State Prison Farm, Central 2 Camp HABS No. TX-"; and 2013 correspondence regarding what would be required by the Texas Antiquities Code if the General Land Office sold the Central Unit prison lands.
Letter from Oliver Bell of the Texas Board of Criminal Justice, to Mark Wolfe, of the Texas Historical Commission, regarding the sale over time of parts of the Central Unit lands, and that the General Land Office will conduct sales in accordance with "all applicable statutory requirements pertaining to the protection of state archaeological antiquities."
Letter of response to Mr. Moore stating that the Texas Holocaust and Genocide Commission contacted Sen. Joan Huffman's office regarding the convict leasing system.
Correspondence documenting initial contact between Mr. Moore and TCJC.
Filename MLK-event-2016-speeches.MP3
Filename MLK-event2016-KPRCnews.MP3
Filename KPFT-radio-undated.mp3
Filename C_SPAN-call-in-2017.MP3
Filename C-SPAN-Feb29-2017.MP3
Full commission meeting, as well as Antiquities Advisory Board, Archaeology committee, Architecture committee, and more. Mr. Moore was present and recorded the audio.
Does not feature Mr. Moore talking, but is a recording of a call-in show about the lynching museum. Filename May20-2018-lynching-museum.MP3
Hearing on whether Fort Bend County would be able to exhume the bodies found, with Ken Brown, Richard Vogel, describing meeting and a recording of a news story about it that day.
File name = June-4-2018-FortBend.MP3
File name = May11-2018-SanIsidroCemetery.MP3
Driving and walking interview with Mr. Moore and Diana Hernandez, looking at a church and cemetery.
File name = Hernandez-tour-SanIsidroCemetery-part1.MP3
Driving and walking interview with Mr. Moore and Diana Hernandez, looking at a church and cemetery
File name = Hernandez-tour-SanIsidroCemetery-part2.MP3
File name = May3-2018-TomHartman-show.MP3
File name = May1-2018-SlaveMuseum-Alabama.mp3
File name = Apr26-2018-tvnews-graves.mp3
File name = Apr23-2018-79graves.mp3
File name = 2018-prison-problems-conversation.mp3
File name = April-13-2018-tv-newsFox26.mp3
File name = April12-2018-tvnews-graves-Channel11.mp3
File name = April11-2018-tvnews-graves-Channel11.mp3
File name = April11-2018-tvnews-graves-Ch11.mp3
File name = April11-2018-tvnewsCh13-5pm.mp3
File name = April-10-2018-Ch11news-graves.mp3
File name April-10-2018-Ch2-MrMoore-graves.mp3
File name = April-9-2018-Ch13-22graves.mp3
File name = RegMoore-9-11-2018-State-Board-education.m4a
You Tube video of streamed event https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=97&v=LDYZe9d_uW4
Reginald Moore collected this clip but does not feature in it.
The area covered in this report was part of former prison grounds in the Sugar Land, Texas region.
Lead agency: Texas Historical Commission. Authors: Ron Ralph and Reign Clark. Area includes Smart Financial Arena and UH Sugar Land.
Correspondence, notes and other records of the daily business of the Dean of Students at Rice University.
The majority of the records are paper documents made up of correspondence, news clippings, contracts, speeches, reports, minutes, financial documents, and other types of documents used in conducting the business of the President's Office. There are also documents from Carl MacDowell's tenure as assistant to the president forwarded to Mark Scheid during the transitional period before Scheid replaced him.
Folders are arranged alphabetically by name of department. Contents of the folders are mostly in original order and the dates that are covered are noted on the folder.
The material in this series is filed alphabetically by administrative offices or heading. Original order was maintained so there may be overlapping of dates on some folders.
This series is arranged alphabetically by title of off campus organizations and other groups that were not an immediate part of Rice University.
The collection consists of records of the work of the Rice University committee of faculty, staff, and students appointed by the president to assess needs, plan provision of space, and establish policies related to parking on the campus. Developments that occurred during the years represented in these records include establishment of fees for parking, and relating revenue to the cost of the campus bus service. Also included is documentation of the planning and negotiation with the City of Houston in order for a traffic light to be installed at the Rice Boulevard boundary of the campus where it meets Sunset Boulevard.
This collection includes t-shirts created by the Rice Hillel community in 2012-2013, with a shirt for each of the Rice University residential colleges, featuring the college name written in Hebrew.
This collection consists of video interviews dating from 2011 and conducted by the Vietnamese American Heritage Foundation. These interviewees are Texas-based, and form part of the national 500 Oral Histories Project conducted by the Vietnamese Heritage Foundation. These interviews are online at https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/79696. Most are in Vietnamese, although some are in English. Transcripts for the Vietnamese language interviews were created by Mr. Hieu Do in Vietnam, and have not been verified by a second reader.
Also includes family photos.
Includes documents related to Bronze Star Medal awarded by U.S.A., 1971
Includes newsclippings.
Includes personal documents.
Includes additional personal photos.
Also includes family photos.
Also includes personal documents.
Also includes family photos.
The John D. Kirkland Baker Botts public records of corporations & memorabilia contains bound volumes of business records and memorabilia.
The HaviKoro Crew Collection contains T-shirts, posters, hand painted shoes, hand painted jacket, documents, oversized posters and banners.
The Pimp C rap artist collection contains several documents and other paraphernalia of the artist Chad "Pimp C" Butler. The documents include handwritten song lyrics on loose leaf paper and cardboard, papers from the Texas Department of Justice relating to his arrest for aggravated assault, a Grammy nomination, a copy of his obituary from his funeral, and a marketing plan by FM2 Radio and the joint venture deal with Universal Music Group. Also included in the collection are several forms of artwork featuring Pimp C and a 12-inch record (warped), with the songs Stop-N-Go and The Game Belongs to Me.
Series contains unfinished lyrics from Tennessee Texas on pieces of loose leaf paper, lyrics written on a piece of cardboard, and a wide-ruled notebook with several pages of lyrics written on them.
Strategic marketing plan put forth by FM2 Radio including a contract from Provident Financial Management who handled the financial planning and management of Chad Butler's career and estate. Also included is the joint venture deal between UGK Records Inc. and Universal Music Group.
Forms from the Texas Department of Criminal Justice including: notice of special conditions (urinalysis monitoring) and temporary travel permits to Atlanta, GA; Jackson, MS; Nashville, TN.
Obituary from the funeral service of Chad "Pimp C" Butler held in Port Arthur, TX.
Copy of the February 2008 edition of The Source magazine. The magazine features Pimp C on the cover and features an article about the life of Pimp C.
Credit card style business cards for Pimp C, includes an email address and MySpace information.
Spreadsheet of the song list from the album Naked Soul of Sweet Jones which was released posthumously by Pimp C on October 5, 2010.
Framed stencil drawing of Pimp C
Promotional flats for Underground Kingz Dirty Money (x2)
Grammy nomination certificate for Underground Kingz (UGK) for best rap performance by a duo or group for "Big Pimpin" (with Jay-Z) for the 2000 Grammy Awards.
Resolution signed by Mayor Deloris Prince of Port Arthur in 2007 after the death of Chad "Pimp C" Butler.
12-inch record (warped) of Stop-N-Go and The Game Belongs To Me by Underground Kingz (UGK). The record was intended for promotional use only and has clean, dirty, and instrumental versions of both songs.
The collection includes Diana P. Hobby's writing and research notes, from the early 1950s
to 2014, focused on her study of William Butler Yeats. The bulk of the collection consists
of family photographs and slides from the Hobby family's worldwide travels and their
frequent visits to Ireland, and to Diana Hobby's family farm in North Carolina, Forest Home,
along with their equestrian endeavors and competitions, and their lives and friends in
Houston, TX.
The Harry P. Girard Music Manuscript collection details two of his most well known light operas, "The Maid of Manalay," and "The Alaskan." Handwritten music manuscripts comprise the bulk of the collection along with published scores. There are also four folders of unknown manuscripts.
These records reflect the business of the Vice Provist and University Librarian search committee of 2007, whose efforts resulted in the hiring of Sara Lowman.
Records of the search committee whose process resulted in the hiring of Ann Wright.
The collection consists of two documents, the February 1995 report of the General Announcements Review Committee, and a June 2006 draft of a report by Christopher Dow on characteristics and changes of General Announcements from 1994-95 through 2005-06.
This collection consists of materials from the Center for Civic Leadership offices. It includes office files, journals and scrapbooks created by students, and photographs.
"Guatemala images" consists of digital images (jpgs) from a trip to Guatemala.
"Reyonosa images" consists of digital images (jpgs) of a trip to Reynosa, Mexico.
"Galveston images" consists of digital images (jpgs) of the Alternative Spring Break trip to Galveston.
Event planning documents, correspondence, notes, drafts, memos, press releases, newsclippings, photographs and memorabilia created and maintained by Rice University in support of the 1990 Economic Summit of Industrialized Nations, hosted by Rice University.
Rice University paper scrolls representing and describing gifts to Rice the establishment of Chairs, Scholarships, Lectureships, 1918-2013.
The collection consists of a variety of planning materials in preparation for the university-wide celebration of the charter that established Rice Institute. The collection includes the initial charge to the committee from President George Rupp, the committee and subcommittee membership lists, notes, memos, meeting minutes, subcommittee recommendations and reports, and proposals for symposia.
Records reflecting the official business of the Shepherd School Dean Search Committee, 2002-2003, including documentation of faculty input, correspondence, candidate evaluations, potential candidate information, and candidate files. This search resulted in the hire of Robert Yekovich as Dean of the Rice University Shepherd School of Music.
This collection contains correspondence, images, news clippings, and other items
chronicling the musical history of Don Sanders.
The items in these files consist of scans from Don Sanders scrapbooks created by
Woodson staff. There are master file tifs and access copy jpgs and pdfs.
These born digital video files consist of one master copy mp4 and one access copy
located at scholarship.rice.edu.
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: A1 -
"Heavy Word User," A2 - "Performance," A3 - "One Way Jesus," A4 - "Bruised Fruit"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include:
"Streets of Seville," "Until Victory," "Great Big Bottle," "New Gallows Farewell,"
"Mariner," "Limelight," "My Song," "Moment," "Disposable," "Vampire Bride," "Cutout
Bin," "Quiet Day."
This collection contains correspondence, photographs, scrapbooks, schedules, and other items chronicling the musical history of Wheatfield and St. Elmo's Fire. It also includes items from Craig Calvert's other collaborations: Calvert Bell, CPR, Craig Calvert and Alter Ego, Monday Night Live, Hotcakes, Murphy's In-Laws, and The Sweaters.
These digitized video files consist of one master copy avi and one access copy mp4.
These digitized video files consist of one master copy avi and one access 
These born digital video files consist of one master copy mov and one access copy located at scholarship.rice.edu.
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Last Train to Ponchitrain"; "Dead Flowers"; "Laurie's Song"; "Waxahatchie Woman"; "From the Winter"; "Beans and Beer, Again"; "He Comes for conversation"; "Flapjack Blues"; "The Lady Has No Heart"; "Open Up the Door" - Broadcast 1974-08-01
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Anything to Make It"; "Another Twist"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "5th Floor Walkup"; "With a Heart"; "Black Jack."
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s.
This scrapbook contains items from Craig Calvert's other music groups: Hotcakes, Fink's Mules, Murphy's In-Laws, CPR, and Calvert & Mims.
This scrapbook contains items from St. Elmo's Fire, Calvert Bell, CPR, the Craig Calvert Group, Craig Calvert and Alter Ego, Alter Ego, Monday Night Live, Hotcakes, The Sweaters, and Fink's Mules.
This collection contains items documenting the Houston Folk music scene from the 1970s-1980s. More specifically, it has smaller donations of albums, fliers, and photographs.
Tracks include: Side A: "The Ring-A-Rang-A-Roo," "The Keeper of the Eddystone Light," "Mamie Had a Baby," "Cocaine Bill and Morphine Sue," "Take a Whiff On Me," "The Bastard King of England," "No Balls At All," "Barnacle Bill The Sailor," "Big Jim Folsom," "Cristofo Columbo," "The Monk of Priory Hall," "The Hootchy Kootchy Dance," "Always In the Hallway," "In Crawled One-Hung Lo"; Side B: "Whole Stole My Beer?", "Dicky Dido," "Shine and the Titanic," "You Be Kind To Me," "Boar Hog Blues," "Grubbing Hoe," "Uncle Bud," "The Girl I Left Behind Me," "There's A 'Skeeter," "Stavin' Chain," "You Got Good Business," "The Dirty Dozens," "Limericks," "The Ball of Kirriemuir," "Change The Name Of Arkansas!!!"
Tracks include: A: "Brazos," "Little House"; B: "Mail Myself to You," "Nothing at All"
Tracks include: A1- "New York City Cowboy; A2- "Taking Leave of the Nest"; A3- Magic; A4- "Just Like You"; A5- "Song for Nita"; B1- "Lounge Lizard's Lament"; B2- "All Our Gardens"; B3- "Barnburning"; B4- "Our Friends the Bears"; B5- "Toward the Attainment of Wisdom"
Tracks include: "I Saw You Again," "Never Was a Rock and Roll Fan," "Dr. Heckle and Mr. Jive," "I'm So Glad You Stayed," "He's Only a Man"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: A1 - "Rita Ballou"; A2 - "L.A. Freeway"; A3 - "She Ain't Goin' Nowhere"; A4 - "Nickel for the Fiddler"; A5 - "That Old Time Feeling"; B1 - "Texas 1947"; B2 - "Desperados Waiting for the Train; B3 - "Like a Coat from the Cold"; B4 - "Instant Coffee Blues"; B5 - "Let Him Roll"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: A1 - Stephen Jarrard - "Sweet Shine"; A2 - Stephen Jarrard - "Singer in the Sunset"; A3 - Stephen Jarrard - "Pineapple and Rum"; A4 - Don Sanders - "You and Me"; A5 - Don Sanders - "Bayou Song"; A6 - Don Sanders - "Mean Ol' Alcohol"; A7 - Bill Cade - "Ripped Off"; A8 - Bill Cade - "Too Long in the City"; A9 - Bill Cade - "Texas Was My Home"; B1 - Eric Taylor - "Memphis Midnight, Memphis Morning"; B2 - Eric Taylor - "Virginia's Photograph"; B3 - Eric Taylor - "Rainbow & Lightning, Beautiful & Frightening"; B4 - Lynn Langham - "Living in the Music"; B5 - Lynn Langham - "Quickfire"; B6 - Lynn Langham - "Nightdrifts"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Track listing: A1 - "Announcement" by Dale Sofar; A2 - "Pancho & Lefty"; A3 - "Mr. Mudd & Mr. Gold"; A4 - "Don't You Take It Too Bad"; A5 - "Two Girls"; A6 - "Fraternity Blues"; A7 - "If I Needed You"; B1 - "Brand New Companion"; B2 - "White Freight Liner Blues"; B3 - "To Live Is to Fly"; B4 - "She Came and She Touched Me"; B5 - "Talking Thunderbird Blues"; B6 - "Rex's Blues"; B7 - "Nine Pound Hammer"; C1 - "For the Sake of the Song"; C2 - "Chauffeur's Blues"; C3 - "No Place to Fall"; C4 - "Loretta"; C5 - "Kathleen"; C6 - "Why She's Acting This Way"; D1 - "Cocaine Blues"; D2 - "Who Do You Love?"; D3 - "Tower Song"; D4 - "Waiting 'Round to Die"; D5 - "Tecumseh Valley"; D6 - "Lungs"; D7 - "Only Him or Me"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: A1 - "I Remember Joe"; A2 - "Alabama Soft Spoken Blues"; A3 - "Michael's Song"; A4 - "Song for Remembered Heroes"; A5 - "West Texas Sun"; B1 - "There's a Light Beyond These Woods"; B2 - "Dollar Matinee"; B3 - "Montana Backroads"; B4 - "John Philip Griffith"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: A1 - "Mystic Rose; A2 - "Tryptich - the Four Elements"; A3 - "The Only Waltz There Is"; A4 - "Adoramus Te"; B1 - "Mysteries"; B2 - "Canyon Walls"; B3 - "Solace"; B4 - "Vivace"
Contents include: master wav and access mp3s. Tracks include: A1- "Ghost in the Music"; A2- "Live is a Hard Waltz"; A3- "Roseville Fair"; A4- "Mary and Omie"; A5- Friends out in the Madness"; A6- "I'm Not Drivin' These Wheels (Bring the Prose to the Wheel); A7- "Time Alone"; B1- "Ballad of Robin Winter-Smith"; B2- "Daddy Said"; B3- "Once in a Very Blue Moon"; B4- "If I Were the Woman You Wanted"; B5- "Year Down in New Orleans"; B6- "Spin on a Red Brick Floor"
Tracks include: Side 1: "Your Whole Surprise," "She Was Just a Girl," "I Need Some Good News Today," "Waiting for Love to Come," "Plateau," "Frozen Somewhere Blues"; Side 2: "Out into the Light," "River Daughter," "I Keep a Certain Distance," "I Flew across the Ocean to Be with You," "Back in the Days When Dinosaurs Ruled the Earth," "Letting Go"
Key folk tracks include: Dana Cooper - "Empty Glass," Jack Saunders - "I've Got a Thing for You," Nanci Griffith - "Workin' In Corners," Don Sanders - "De Esos Caballos," Sara Hickman - "Two Days Today"
Includes digital scans of photographs and fliers from the bands Dogtooth Violet, Hickory, Caught in the Act, and Denim. There are access copy jpgs.
Contents include: low quality jpg images of the band Freeborn which included Reb Smith, Bill Galbraith, and Vance Whelpy.
Includes digital scans of photographs, fliers, and other items that document Anderson Fair Retail Restaurant, Blue Squirrel Corp., and George Ensle. There are access copy jpgs.
These born digital video files consist of one master copy mp4 and one access copy located at scholarship.rice.edu.
These born digital video files consist of one master copy mov and one access copy located at scholarship.rice.edu.
Contents include: an edited mp4 video of the concert and jpgs taken by Jeff Fitlow.
MS0654aip_007 - Contents include: Images (jpg) and videos (mov) taken by John "Grungy" Gladu of the concert.MS0654aip_008 - Contents include: Video (mov) of concert.
Contents include: mov master oral history and mp4 access version.
Contents include: mov oral history master and mp4 oral history
Contents include: oral history master mov and access mp4
Contents include: an mp4, wav, mp3, and txt files related to the virtual Homecoming concert featuring Vince Bell and Sara Hickman.
This collection consists of the business records, including artist booking sheets and contracts, as well as promotional calendars, news clippings, and digital images that chronicle the history of the Houston music venue Rockefeller's.
This collection consists of items created by the Black Students' Union and the Black Student Association, more specifically, minutes, histories, correspondence, and memorabilia.
This collection consists of awards and scrapbooks from the Vietnamese Student Association.
This collection consists of minutes, club information, and events of the Rice Alliance for Mental Health Awareness club.
This collection consists of items created by the Rice Computer Science Club, more specifically, correspondence, minutes, event planning, and photographs.
This collection contains a wide variety of realia from Rice University's history, including a variety of jewelry pieces, clothing, athletics-related materials, and various other objects.
Includes buckle donated by Ed Jennings, Class of 1948
1911 - Prince Albert tobacco can containing a piece of wood with the name Jacob Boehler. Found in 2021 during the Mech Lab renovation.
Sally Ride Festival mask. Event organized by Pat Rieff. 1st student event on campus after 2020-03 shutdown. Donated by Emma Kolah
Includes a pennant with an attached ticket stub donated by Kenneth Simmons.
1996 SWC Champions Forever ring
1997 WAC Champions NCAA College World Series ring
2003 NCAA World Series Championship ring
1994 SWC Football Champions ring
Lew Harpold "R" cardigan, D. Dean "R" sweater
Accession # 2020.UA053
Plaque reads: Rice Victory Built for U.S. Maritime Commission, Hull NO. V-797, by California Shipbuilding Corporation, Los Angeles, California, July 1945
VHS tapes, mini-DV tapes, magazines, contracts, and correspondence.
This collection includes the wealth of documentation identified from across the United States and beyond and assembled for the purpose of the publication of the Papers of Jefferson Davis, a 14-volume set, funded by the NHPRC, and other activities and persons, beginning in the 1960s and running through 2015. Many of the speeches and letters published in the edition, either in full or summarized, are present in this collection as photocopies or on microfilm. Not every document featured in the edition is currently represented here, as many were on microfilm on loan from the owning repositories for one-time reference use by the project, and such reels have been returned to the owning repositories.
All of the Jefferson Davis documents at the Woodson Research Center are copies except those in the Jefferson Davis Letters and related materials (MS 005, Woodson Research Center). The document files include everything the Jefferson Davis Project received in photocopy form, but only a relatively small percentage of prints from documents on microfilm. The document files are in chronological order by year.month.day, each in a manila envelope. Conjecturally dated items are filed at the end of the month or year. Documents from the
secretary of war period (1853 - 1857) that cannot be reliably dated are filed at the end of 1857.
Also check in "n.d." at the end of document files. The 3x5 pale yellow control slips in the envelopes may or may not reflect the copy actually used in the edition, but are useful for summaries. In addition to items to and from Jefferson Davis, the document files include the correspondence of Varina Howell Davis, Joseph E. Davis, and other family members. There are also letters of others about the Davises and contemporary issues. Some small collections of
non-Jefferson/Varina Davis letters are in the genealogy files and vertical files. Two examples in the vertical files: William Preston Johnston letters and Dorsey Papers, the latter since folded
into the Davis Collection at the Museum of the Confederacy (Davis was executor and heir of the Dorsey estate)–see numbers 2905-3081 in the checklist. In the genealogy files: Lise Mitchell Papers and
Josie Alexander Collection. The copies come from hundreds of repositories and private owners. Many Davis collections - for example, those held by the Museum of the Confederacy (now located at the Va. Hist. Soc.), Tulane, Library of Congress, Duke, Transylvania, and the U. of Alabama - number in the hundreds or thousands. There are typed item by item inventories in the three ring binders for dozens of repositories. They are often helpful in identifying specific letters (where they may be filed, for example) and in determining ownership. We cannot allow the copying of any manuscripts except those owned by the Rice University, Davis family members, Library of Congress, and the National Archives. Only if the researcher secured permission from the owner, whether repository or individual, can a copy be made from our copy. Copying of typescripts, transcriptions, and printed versions is permitted. Many privately owned documents have entered or re-entered the marketplace since we secured our copies (see 89.2.2, to Martin W. Philips). Likewise, entire collections have been deaccessioned and sold, among them the Forbes Magazine Collection and the Dallas Historical Society collection of Davis / John H. Reagan letters. Many other names of collections and repositories have changed. Examples: "Confederate Museum" became Museum of the Confederacy and is now part of the American Civil War Museum; "Chicago Historical Society" is now the Chicago History Museum. The Gilder / Lehrman Collection moved from the Pierpont Morgan Library to the New York Historical Society. All copies received from the Filson Club (Filson Historical Society, Louisville) were returned to the Filson as a condition of use. Some were transcribed and the typescripts are in the document files. Ownership of the originals sometimes changes, in which case the envelope usually has multiple copies of the same item. See 80.11.22, to Capen, for an example of copies received from two different owners. Most prints of documents from microfilm made with old wet process microfilm reader/printers were discarded. Not all transcriptions in envelopes were prepared by Davis Project staff. In general, those on yellow or blue paper were. Except for the letters printed in full in the edition, most have not been proofread.
Sometimes there is more than one document in an envelope–enclosure, letter or transmittal, letters on the same subject, for examples. The other letters are identified on the envelope and identified as "f/w" (filed with) in the database. See 61.6.13 from Harris. It happens occasionally that we don't have either the transmittal letter or that one is a photocopy and the other is on film or vice versa. Variant versions of the same item are filed together - sender's copy, recipient's copy, printed version, etc. Two documents from the same writer on the same day are filed together.
Occasionally, a "permission to print" document is filed with the letter: 74.12.2, Varina to J. W. Garrett is an example. Otherwise, permission authorizations are in the correspondence files. "cat." on a document envelope means only an autograph dealer's catalog description is within. Sometimes there is a manuscript copy on microfilm.
"cat. only" means we do not have a manuscript copy. "print" and "print only"–same as "cat." and "cat. only" "lost letters" on envelope: one of the letters stolen from Davis' library in Mississippi in 1863 [most of them, eventually turned over to William T. Sherman, form the core of the Davis Collection in the Library of Congress] "Rowland" on envelope: printed in the 1923 edition of Davis' papers "Private Ls" or "Priv Letters" or a variation of same means Hudson Strode's edition. His transcriptions are not accurate, so use with care.
"DP 6:253.54" on envelope: printed in our edition, Davis Papers, volume 6, pages 253 to 254"Addenda, Vol. 9" on envelope: arrived after publication of volume in which it belongs chronologically and in time to be included in Addenda section of Volume 9, but not necessarily selected for inclusion in that Addenda section. All documents are recorded in spreadsheets, accessible to Woodson staff for reference purposes.
This set duplicates the National Archives reels accounted for in boxes 1-4, and are being kept as back up.
Documents filed in date order, as noted on the envelope containing each document.
The boxed 5x8 slips (Jefferson Davis items) and the 3x5 slips in the card catalog (Varina Davis) are arranged chronologically and are the resources most read and copied by researchers, who use them as a guide to the document files and microfilm.
Newspaper articles,some printed on thermal paper, are filed in chronological order. Many of the 3"x5" notes in the Papers of Jefferson Davis card catalog unit and 5"x8" cards refer to these prints. Newspaper sources for items published in The Papers of Jefferson Davis, usually speeches and interviews, are in the document files.
Some, especially those relating to Davis family genealogy or to specific events in Davis' life, are now in the genealogy and vertical files. Many newspapers represented in these files are now available in digital format, but most-- particularly those from smaller markets--are not. Fondren Library has cataloged the Davis Project's collection of newspapers on microfilm, notably pre-1861 Mississippi papers and Richmond papers of 1861-65, likewise the collection of pre-1861 city directories on fiche.
Jefferson Davis Reference files are often referenced in the 3x5" slips in the card catalog.
Vertical files: persons, places, events, including some printed sources such as pamphlets and Confederate imprints, and typescripts. Individual females are filed and identified under their last married names–especially important for relatives such as Florida Ann Davis McCaleb Laughlin (niece) and Lucinda Farrar Davis Stamps (sister), and close connections such as Inez Routh Ellis Gordon Thompson Peckham. In a couple of cases, there are vertical files on women under their husbands' names (Inez, for instance). In the vertical files, husbands' names are sometimes first, mainly because that's usually how to find people on censuses. Always wise to check the 3x5 slips (document and reference) for all surnames.
[Individual folders to be listed soon.]Many family members in the genealogical charts (Vols. 1 and 4 appendixes and online) do not have biographical sketches in the edition. Divided into separate folders for Jefferson's parents and siblings in birth order (Matilda #8 died young). The folders are a hodge-podge of information, compiled over fifty years and derived from printed sources and primary documents; there are also primary documents in the files, such as gravestone photographs. Vertical files and the 3x5 slips (information and
document control slips) also should be consulted about individuals. Some family members--Joseph E. Davis, for example--have vertical files in addition to information in the genealogy folders. Joseph E. Davis' probate file is filed with genealogy since it involves so many relatives. There are many repeated and similar names in the family: Mary Ellen, Ellen Mary, Lucinda Jane, Jane Lucinda, Hugh Robert, Robert Hugh, for example, as well as several namesakes of Joseph Emory and Jefferson Davis. There are allied materials such as folders for the Howell family, on Davis' first and second marriages, Varina Howell Davis, Varina Anne Davis, [great-niece] Lise Mitchell's journal (Tulane), published and unpublished Davis family histories, and other collections of family papers, including contemporary letters.
Includes a copy of the image as well as source information.
Correspondence regarding permission to publish and similar requests from researchers.
Spreadsheets are accessible by Woodson staff (on the departmental server) and can be shared upon request. Contact woodson@rice.edu or call 713-348-2586. About the spreadsheets:
The 5x8 slips (Jefferson Davis items) and the 3x5 slips (Varina) contain far more information about individual documents than can be displayed in these spreadsheets and are the resources most read and copied by researchers, who use them as a guide to the document files and microfilm. 
The newspaper print files are also very popular, as are the chronolog slips (3x5). For chronology, check the "official" set of the Davis Papers in the Woodson Research Center reference area; many additions and corrections added in the margins.
The sketch index includes major family properties described in the edition. Occasionally, the published sketches are updated with later information–see marginalia in office copy of the edition. This index is useful for convenience, whether in electronic or printed format. It indicates family members, identifies people with the same or very similar names (James Brown, William Black, Albert Sidney Johnston, George W. Jones, Mary Custis Lee are examples), individuals with aliases or who changed their names, nicknames and names by which they were known, which was often the middle name. Some persons have two biographical sketches.
Alabama Archives, Josie Alexander Collection, Architect of the Capitol, Arizona State University, Atlanta Historical Center, Percival Beaucroft, Beauvoir, Boston Public Library, Brown University, Carnegie-Stout Public Library, Milicent Helm Chapman, Chicago Historical Society, Columbia University, Confederate Imprints
Dallas Historical Society, Adele Hayes-Davis Davis, Richard W. Davis, Duke University, Emory University, Filson Club Historical Society, Gilder Lehrman Collection
Harvard University, Bert Hayes-Davis, Historic New Orleans Collection, Historical Society of Pennsylvania, Huntington Library, Illinois State Historical Society, Iowa Archives, Jefferson Davis Project, Library of Virginia, Louisiana State Museum, Lousiana State University
Maryland Historical Society, Miami University, Mississippi State University, Pierpoint Morgan Library, Morristown National Historical Park, New York Public Library, Norton Art Gallery, Old Court House Museum
Rice University, Rosenbach Foundation, Smithsonian, South Carolina Archives, Hudson Strode, Tennessee Archives, Transylvania University, U.S. Army (Carlisle Barracks), U.S. Military Academy, University of Alabama
University of California, University of Georgia, University of Memphis, University of Michigan, University of North Carolina, University of South Carolina, University of Texas, University of Virginia
Virginia Historical Society, Warren County Courthouse, Joel and Barbara Webb, Western Reserve Historical Society, William and Mary, Woodville Republican newspaper archives, Yale University
Also includes pamphlets describing National Archives record groups.
The materials in the DePelchin Children's Center records include the written and visual record of the Center ranging from 1887 to 2000. Highlights include correspondence from and photographs of the founder, Kezia Payne DePelchin. The collection does not contain records of adoptions.
Oral history interviews in audio and transcript format, including interview consent forms filed with the interviews. The primary subject matter is the experience of at least 100 long term survivors, physicians, activists, religious and political leaders and others impacted by HIV / AIDS epidemic in Houston, Harris County and Southeast Texas.
This collection represents the community activism efforts of Mr. Reginald Moore, which has often taken the form of researching topics as represented in newspaper accounts, requesting government records on the topics, and corresponding with officials and engaging in public testimony. Private Sector Initiatives / Home Savers initiative - church based effort which Mr. Moore either led or was just deeply involved in to get the black community out participating in assisting fellow African Americans in repairing their homes via volunteer efforts. (Holman Street)Houston Community College - misappropriation of funds Housing and Urban Development, later renamed as Housing and Community Development, funding shortages. Mr. Moore involved in seeking government records and providing public testimony. Prison reform - experience as correctional officer, research in newspapers, sharing ideas and opinions in public forums such as call-in radio shows (not documented in this collection) and corresponding with public officials regarding legislation for eVerification as a tool to facilitate employment of ex-convicts. Wards and churches in Houston -- research in newspapers, public testimony (in collection, including Antioch Church video testimony at City Council)Yates High School public testimony lobbying to save the building, Houston City Council 2/09/2016 video. Additional methods of activism which are not specifically documented in this collection include frequent radio show call-ins regarding issues relevant to the African American community, for example with the Rev. Jesse Jackson's show "Keep Hope Alive" and Houston radio station Magic 102.1. 
30 letters and envelopes written by Captain Edwin Fosha to his wife Rebecca Fosha and children in Illinois.
Includes additional letter dated 1863-04-25.
Includes composition written by daughter Frances Fosha.
Includes second letter dated 1863-09-17.
Includes second letter dated 1863-11-03.
This collection contains copies of autograph scores, lecture notes, articles, and programs from composer Pierre Jalbert's academic and professional files. The materials in the collection date from 2001 through 2014.
This collection contains copies of autograph scores, lecture notes, articles, and programs from composer Arthur Gottschalk's academic and professional files. The materials in the collection date from 1964 through 2019.
This collection consists of materials relating to the uniform and personal equipment of a soldier of the U.S. Army in World War I. In addition there are maps of the areas of operations and an artillery barrage chart for the Reymonville area, 1 November 1918. Red piping on the garrison cap indicates Artillery. Shoulder patch is First Army. Collar devices indicate Regular Army, 18th Infantry Regiment, Company D. Chevrons on sleeve indicate 1 year Overseas Service (1 chevron for each six months). Shoulder cord is French Fourragere, given to a person or unit as a commendation, number of commendations are shown by various combinations of cords on the fourragere, in this case probably two unit commendations. Ribbons: blue/white/red (unidentified). Next, probably Certificate of Merit, US Army, Final: Purple Heart. Grade is likely that of Private, since there are no rank indications on sleeves.
The collection consists of print and photographic materials related to the commissioning and installation on the Rice campus of Michael Heizer's three-part granite sculpture 45°, 90°, 180°. The records include background on how Rice came to be given the work and what the criteria were that guided selection of Heizer as the sculptor. The monumental tasks of bringing the granite to the chosen site and then fixing the slabs to their pedestals are well represented by the collection's photographs. There are also newsclippings covering both transportation of the granite and the installation. Finally the collection includes material related to the dedication of the sculpture and the exhibition featuring Heizer's work that was mounted in the gallery of the School of Architecture at the time of the dedication, January 24, 1985. There are multiple copies of the twenty-three-page catalogue written for the exhibition by William Camfield of the Rice Art Department.
Records documenting the activities of Glenda Joe with the Houston Asian American Festival Association, as well as with community advocacy issues concerning the Asian American communities in Houston, circa 1980-2015.
Recordings of Lunar New Year Festival (2008) and Asian Festival (1981-1982) were sent for digitization, November, 2017, and are stored nearline with identifier numbers MS0667aip_001, MS0667aip_002, and MS0667aip_003. Original media from this group is stored in box 24. Not all tapes were able to be captured digitally. See spreadsheet print in box 24. Additional recordings from box 4 are being sent for digitization in 2019. See spreadsheet printed in box 4.
This material was processed into nearline digital objects with the identfiers MS0667aip_001, _002, and _003.
This collection includes the pieces of a sterling silver dinner service, Kensington pattern by International Silver Co., including accompanying porcelain cups and bowls used by George and Esther Meyer Cohen and family starting in the 1920s. Following his death in 1971 and Esther's in 1978, the service was auctioned and purchased by the donors.
This collection includes autograph music manuscripts, annotated and signed published scores, articles, photos, and notebooks of harpist, composer, and teacher Carlos Salzedo. There are also materials about Alice Chalifoux, Salzedo's student and an influential harpist and teacher in her own right.
This collection consists of the photographs, news clippings, posters, realia and a scrapbook documenting the history of the music venue Liberty Hall. Materials from co-owner Michael Condray's later music venture Showbar is also included.
The items in this file consist of images taken at Mike Condray's Memorial at Ovations Club by a Woodson staff member. These are jpg files.
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Soundcheck: Satin Doll - Beer Barrel Polka"; "Satin Doll"; "Does This Bus Stop at 82nd Street?"; "Growin' Up"; "Mary Queen of Arkansas"; "Wild Billy's Circus Story"; "Sentimental Journey"; "The Fever"; "Something You Got - Heat Wave"; Springsteen interview recorded the day before the band's appearance at the station. Bruce Springsteen - guitar, lead vocals; Danny Federici - accordian; Clarence Clemons - saxophone; Garry Tallent - tuba
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Down Drinking at the Bar"; "I Am the Way (New York Town)"; "Have You Ever Been to Pittsburgh?"; "New Paint"; "Nocturnal Stumblebutt"; "Bell Bottom Pants"; "Clockwork Chartreuse"; "Liza"; "A.M. World"; "Muse Blues"; "Be Careful There's a Baby in th House"; "Unrequited to the Nth Degree"; "Lullabye"; "The You Hurt Me Mantra"; "The Man Who Couldn't Cry"; "Medley: I Know I'm Unhappy - Suicice Song". Digitized from the KPFT master reel
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Papa Ain't Salty"; "Texas Tornados"; "Rain Rain"; "At the Crossroads"; "Stormy Monday"; "Georgia on My Mind"; "Wasted Days and Wasted Nights"; "San Antone (Is Anybody Going to). Performers: Doug Sahm - vocals, guitar, piano; Augie Meyer - organ and piano; Link Davis, Jr. - vocals, alto saxophone, tenor saxophone, baritone saxophone, piano, organ; Doug Clifford - drums; Stu Cook - bass guitar. Originally played on KPFT Radio, later reboradcast by VPRO Radio, 1979-02-02
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s.
These digitized video files consist of one master copy mp4 and one access copy located at scholarship.rice.edu.
These digitized video files consist of one master copy mp4 and one access copy located at scholarship.rice.edu.
This is a blown up image with text and not an original photograph.
Includes artists: Doctor Rockit, Jr. Medlow and the Bad Boys, Herschel Berry and the Natives, Tommie Lee Bradley, and Sean Walters.
This collection mainly contains posters from the Sweetheart of Texas Concert Hall and Saloon, as well as other related venues.
Performers include: Dogtooth Violet, Vince Bell and Friends, Captain Macho, Bill and Lucille cade with Pete Gorisch.
Performers include: Dogtooth Violet, George Ensle, The Cypress Swamp Stompers, and Fredrique and His French Guillotine
Performers include: Clifton Chenier, Dogtooth Violet, Kenneth Threadgill, Denim
Performers included: Greazy Wheels, Townes Van Zandt, Ramblin' Jack Elliott, Steve Fromholz
Performers include: Alex Harvey, Dogtooth Violet, Townes Van Zandt, and Bill Staines
Performers include: Ramblin' Jack Elliott, Lucinda Williams, Dogtooth Violet, Cypress Swamp Stompers, Ray Wylie Hubbard and The Cowboy Twinkies, Augie Meyers and The Western Head Band, Townes Van Zandt, Hemmer Ridge Mountain Boys, Richard Dobson, David Rodriguez, Rocky Hill, Kenneth Threadgill and The Velvet Cow Pasture Band, Bill and Lucille Cade, Stephen Jarrard, Peter Gorisch, Clifton Chenier, John Vandiver, Wheatfield, Don Sanders, Bill Staines, Steve Fromholz, Vince Bell, Eric Taylor, Denim, Hickory, Willis Alan Ramsey, Greezy Wheels, George Ensle, and Bill Haymes
Performers include: Don Sanders, Lucinda Williams], Sandy Lee, Uncle Sam, and Bobby G.
Performers include: Dogtooth Violet
Performers include: Dogtooth Violet and John Vandiver
An example of audience chair at the music venue. One of 150 bought in bulk by the owners from a nearby downtown seafood restaurant.
There is a master wav file and an access copy mp3.
The items in these files consist of digital images used for research. All the files are jpgs.
These records contain news clippings, fliers, and newsletters, "The Houston Folklore Bulletin" and "The Cotton Patch Rag."
The scrapbook contains photographs of the unit's officers and some of its senior non-commissioned officers, as well as photos of daily life at camp including individual combat training and weapons practice.
This collection includes audio from The Jester Lounge players and an oral history with Judy Clements of the duo Ken and Judy.
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Recording of the Hoot n' Holler telecast from Thanksgiving 1963. Tracks include: Side 1: "If I Had a Hammer" - Ken and Judy; "Ribbon Bow" - Sarah Wiggins; "Sylvie" - Frank Davis; "Sylvie" - Scott Holtzman; "500 Miles" - Marijane Vandivier; "Houndog" - Rumrunners; "Wagoner's Lad" - Scott Holtzman and Kay Oslin; "Gimme Pain" - Group; "Michael" - All; "Kumbaya" - All; "Live a Humble" - Ken and Judy; "Go Tell It" - Ken and Judy; "Chickaly Leo" - Sharon; "Rattlesnake Mountain" - Frank Davis and Kay Oslin; "12 Gates" - Frank Davis and Kay Oslin; "Squirrel" - Sarah Wiggins; "Hi Lili" - Scott Holtzman and Kay Oslin; Side 2: "JFK" - Vivian Holtzman; "Barbry Allen" - Kay Oslin; "Wagoner's Lad" - Kay Oslin; "Rising Sun" - Kay Oslin; "Fen John" - Sharon; "Dona Dona" - Sharon; "Buckeye Jim" - Sharon; "Cotton Eye Joe" - Sarah Wiggins; "Johnny's Gone" - Sarah Wiggins; "Ain't No More Cane on This Brazos" - Sarah Wiggins; "Blues Chase up a Rabbit" - Carl S.; "Tarrytown" - Sarah Wiggins; "Moonshiner" - Sarah Wiggins; "Hoe Corn" - Frank Davis; "Trouble for" - Frank Davis; "Babe" - Scott Holtzman; "Jamie" - Vivian Holtzman; "This Ain't the Life" - Scott Holtzman; "Cavern" - Scott Holtzman. Introduction voices include Marietta Marich.
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: A1 - "Santy Anno" - Ken and Judy; A2 - "Railroad Wife" - Vivian Holtzman; A3 - "Copper Kettle" - Scott Holtzman; A4 - "Trouble In Mind" - Lightnin' Hopkins; A5 - "Brave Young Sailor" - Kay Oslin; A6 - "The River Song" - Arthur Hodges; A7 - "East Virginia" - Frank Davis; B1 - "Cotton Mill Girls" - Guy Clark; B2 - "Why May Not I Love Johnny" - Sarah Wiggins; B3 - "Polushka Polya" - Jim Gun; B4 - "Pretty Saro" - Jenny Bell Dean; B5 - "I Am a Pilgrim" - Alex Martin; B6 - "My Girl" - Frank Davis and Kay Oslin; B7 - "Black Mountain Blues" - Arthur Hodges; B8 - "Waving From the Hill" - Jenny Bell and the Gradeux Sisters
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. The majority of these tracks are recorded in a studio and includes outtakes. Tracks include: Side 1: Lightnin' Hopkins - Unknown song about rain; Lightnin' Hopkins - "Trouble in Mind"; Lightnin' Hopkins - Unknown song; Lightnin' Hopkins - "Trouble in Mind"; Lightnin' Hopkins - "Baby, Don't You Hear Me Calling You"; Lightnin' Hopkins - "You Know, That's My Baby"; Lightnin' Hopkins - "Take Me Back"; The Frank Davis Foundation - "Sandpiper" (written by Glen Holtzman); The Frank Davis Foundation - "Sandpiper"; Frank Davis - "What Does It Mean" [?]; Frank Davis - "Present" [?]; Frank Davis - Unknown song; Frank Davis - Unfinished outtake; Frank Davis - "Black, Brown and White"; Frank Davis - "Early Child" outtake; Frank Davis - "Howling" [?]; Frank Davis - "Mockingbird" [?] - outtakes; Frank Davis - "Looking Back In Time"; Side 2: Frank Davis - "When I See My Brother" [?]; Frank Davis - "Mississippi River" [?]; Frank Davis and Kay Oslin - "My Home's Across the Smoky Mountains" live; Frank Davis and Kay Oslin - "Sand Mountain Blues" live; Frank Davis and Kay Oslin - "Every Night When the Sun Goes In" live; Frank Davis and Kay Oslin - "Where Did You Sleep Last Night" live; Kay Oslin - "God Bless the Child" live; Frank Davis and Kay Oslin - "Brazos River" live; Vanity Fair - "Over There" [?]; Frank Davis and Kay Oslin - "Present" in studio; outtake, altered voices - "Right String But the Wrong Yo-Yo"; altered voices - "Peter Pan" in studio; outtakes; altered voices - "[?] Sunshine" in studio; altered voices - "Sweet Thang" in studio; Scott Holtzman and Kay Oslin - "You've Lost That Loving Feeling" in studio; Kay Oslin - "Cornell Crawford" in studio; [singer ?] - "Want to Sing My Song" [?] in studio
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: Side 1: Frank Davis and Kay Oslin - "Rattlesnake Mountain"; "They Gotta Quit Kicking My Dog Around" - Rum Runners; "Blues Chase up a Rabbit" - Carl S.--Check if Same; "Babe, I'm Gonna Leave You" - Scott Holtzman; "The Boy Who Wouldn't Hoe Corn" - Frank Davis; "Wagoner's Lad" - Kay Oslin and Scott Holtzman; "Wagoner's Lad" - unknown; "Banks of the Ohio" - unknown; "Down in the Willow Garden" aka "Rose Connelly" - unknown; "Early Morning Rain" - unknown; "The Pride of Petravore" - unknown; "Calton Weaver" - unknown; "Wild Mountain Thyme" - unknown; "Clear the Track" - unknown; "Hey Nelly Nelly" - unknown; Side 2: Hoot n' Holler telecast introduction; "If I Had a Hammer" - Ken and Judy; "Humble Yourself, The Bell Done Ring" - Ken and Judy; "Go Tell It on the Mountain" - Ken and Judy; "Santy Ano" - unknown; "Railroad Life" - unknown; "Copper Kettle" - unknown; "Trouble in Mind" - Lightnin' Hopkins; "As I Roved Out (Tarry Trousers)" - Kay Oslin; "The Brazos River" - unknown; "East Virginia" - Frank Davis; "Hard Times Cotton Mill Girls" - Guy Clark [?]; "Oh Dear! What Can the Matter Be?" aka "Johnny's So Long at the Fair" - unknown; "Polyushko-polye" - unknown; "Bird" song - unknown; "I'm a Pilgrim and a Stranger" - unknown; "Where Did You Sleep Last Night" - Frank Davis and Kay Oslin; "Black Mountain Blues" - unknown. Introduction voices include Marietta Marich and The Rum Runners.
These born video files consist of one master copy mp4 and one access copy located at scholarship.rice.edu.
This collection contains fliers, posters, news clippings, business records, audio and video. It is organized into four series.
Contents include: Master wav and access mp3 of the following tracks: 5 tracks from the a side and 5 tracks from the b side.
These born digital video files consist of one master copy mpg or mp4 and one access copy mp4.
These born digital video files consist of one master copy mp4 and one access copy mp4.
These born digital video files consist of one master copy mpg or mp4 and one access copy mp4.
These born digital video files consist of one master copy mp4 and one access copy mp4. Songs include: "In Old-Fashion Love," "The Country Side of Town," "Bartalk," "Love Song," "Silver Spoons / Harvest Moon," "Devil's Mountain," "Old-Highway Cafe," "Talking By-Product Blues"
These born digital video files consist of one master copy mpg or mp4 and one access copy mp4. Songs include: "In Old-Fashion Love," "Cantas Con Tu Corazon," "The Country Side," "Hobo's Holiday," "Teenage Wind"
Contents include: Master wav and access mp3 of the following tracks: "The Cadillac Cafe," "Love Song," "I Have to Drink to Drive This Thing," "Devil's Mountain," "Just and Alley Cat," "Steve's Song," "If It Comes Then It Comes," "Fishing Lines."
These born digital video files consist of one master copy mpg or mp4 and one access copy mp4.
These born digital video files consist of one master copy mpg or mp4 and one access copy mp4.
Contents include: Master wav and access mp3 of the following tracks: "Uncle Jack," "State of Grace," "The Troubadour Song for Townes," "Saving Me," "Circuit Preacher," "Blue Love," "Simple Pleasures," "Cantas Con Tu Corazon," "She Blooms Wherever She's Planted," "Coming Back Around."
Contents include: Master wav and access mp3 of the following tracks: "Walkin' Tall," "Everyday Heroes," "Bread of Life," "Second Chances," "Coming Back Around," "Christmas Truce of 1914," "Daybreak Snow," "Circuit Preacher," "Build a Bridge," "Sunsets."
Contents include: Master wav and access mp3 of the following tracks: "Mom and Pop's," "Ballad of Cynthia Brown," "Grandma's Apron and Grandpa's Vest," "Faces in the Sun," "Billy Bob's Backyard," "Hill Country Moon," "Cowboy Church," "Small Town Sundown," "Hired Hands," "It's a Texas Thang," "Give Me Flowers While I'm Living," "April's Lullaby."
Contents include: Master wav and access mp3 of the following tracks: "Grandma's Apron and Grandpa's Vest," "Ballad of Cynthia Brown," "April's Lullaby," "It's a Texas Thang," "Texas Joke One," "All I Need," "Billy Bob's Backyard," "Eye of the Hurricane," "Coming Back Around," "Faces in the Sun," "Uncle Jack," "Texas Joke Two," "Uncle Jack," "Build a Bridge," "Small Town Sundown," "Martin's Song."
Contents include: Master wav and access mp3 of the following tracks: George Ensle - "Knee Deep in a River"; Jack Saunders - "This Highway"; George Ensle - "Grandma's Apron and Grandpa's Vest"; Jack Saunders - "Moving On"
These digitized video files consist of one master copy mp4 and one access copy located at scholarship.rice.edu.
Contents include: Master wav and access mp3 of the following tracks: "If It Comes," "Fishing Lines," "Steve's Song," "Devil's Mountain," "Love Song," "Hobo's Holiday," "On the Sofa Outside," "The Old Highway Cafe," "Now and Then," "The Road," "Blue Tattoo," "Sunsets."
This collection consists of photographs, news clippings, promotional materials, audio, and other items chronicling the musical history of The Banded Geckos.
Examples of graphic design work done by Mike Frost for hip-hop artists in the Houston area.
This collection consists of records of the President's Office Executive Committee, formed in August 1968 by President Pitzer to function after Pitzer's resignation. Record include minutes, memoranda, correspondence, notes, and materials pertaining to the Board of Governors. Dates of records span April 1968 - March 1969.
The collection includes notebooks from Miner's undergraduate classes; photographs of Rice athletes and coaches; football ephemera; objects and apparel from his football career and fund-raising achievements.
The Daley Papers include personal documents from Daley's high school and Rice University years, a play script and original artwork. There are also photographs of Rice and of World War II infantry and intelligence units, along with some newspaper clippings and correspondence from 1946 and 1963.
Pamphlets and documents documenting the history of Texas railroad lines such as Houston & Texas Central Railroad Co., Texas & Pacific Railway Co., Texas & New Orleans Railroad Co., Galveston, Harrisburg & San Antonio Railway Co.
This scrapbook was created by James S. Waters' wife Pauline Lackner Waters to document his time in service, both in training and on the battlefield. It includes memorabilia such as Waters' Officer's Record Book, Battle Insignia, Overseas Service Chevrons, documents recording his vaccination, and receipts from purchases made at the Ordnance Store. Many of the pages contain photos showing Waters' training at Camp Bullis in Texas, his time abroad in France and Germany, and--rarely--his time on leave. The majority of the scrapbook is taken up by newspaper clippings containing news of either the 90th division (of which James Waters was a part), or broader news about World War I as it developed during Waters' time serving. Mrs. Waters also included newspaper clippings that explain the battle insignias of many different divisions--the 90th division prominently displayed alongside Waters' own insignia, as well as several of the telegrams that Waters sent her, letters of permission and commendation sent to Waters by authority figures, and the Christmas letter that Waters sent home to his family in 1918.
This collection contains news clippings, contracts, photographs, and 2-track audio reels from Lucille Borella's folk duo Bill and Lucille Cade. It also contains 2-track audio reels of her music collaboration with her husband Larry Borella.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp4. Contents include: Track 1: Bill and Lucille Cade playing at home with others; Track 2: Bill and Lucille Cade playing at home with others, including Steve Stevens
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp4. Contents include: Track 1: Live performance; Track 2: Lucille Cade solo
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp4. Contents include: Bill and Lucille Cade at the Durant Folk Festival
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp4. Contents include: Announcement of Coleen Cade's birth on KPFT by Captain Macho aka Dan Earhart.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp4. Contents include: Studio recordings at Dale Mullins Studios, 4 tracks
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp4. Contents include: Track 1: Bill and Lucille Cade live performance on Friends show; Track 2: Bill Cade studio recordings
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp4. Contents include: Track 1 and 2: Practice recordings of Bill and Lucille Cade at home
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp4. Contents include: Live performances and demos
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp4. Contents include: Track 1: Picking party including performance by Reb Smith, George Ensle, Stephen Jarrard, France Files Jarrard, Lucille Borella, and Larry Borella; Track 2: Lucille and Larry Borella recording at home
Contents include: Live concert recorded by KPFT. Performers include: Jerry Jeff Walker, Guy Clark, K.T. Oslin, Townes Van Zandt, Rodney Crowell, Mickey Newbury.
Contents include: master wav files and access jpg files. Tracks include: "These Days" at Tandy's, "Bag Pipe Concerto," "Darcy Farrow," "Melodramma," "Storm at Sea," "Tonda," and a performance at the University of Houston.
This collection consists of photographs, negatives, and proof sheets taken by Campanile photographer Bob Roosth. Photographic themes include sports, theater, music performances, art, buildings, construction, and students.
Images include buildings, student life, construction, nudes, art, and Homecoming 1970.
Images include MOB, professors, football, basketball, student life, baseball, hippies, theater, nudes, and art.
Images include theater, football, track and field, construction, student life, lectures, tennis, life at Will Rice College, faculty, basketball, buildings, and dances and parties.
Images include student life, construction, buildings, dances and parties, Beer Bike, football, art, theater, basketball, faculty, occupation of Allen Center, graduation, and head shots.
Images include theater, student life, Houston, head shots, faculty, Rice computers, football, graduation, and nudes.
Images include football, nudes, dances, head shots, campus, and buildings.
The Houston Area Community Services records document the merged efforts of Bering Memorial United Methodist Church and Omega House to serve indigent and underserved patients of HIV/AIDS who could no longer be helped by the traditional medical community. The records are a comprehensive, but not all-inclusive, accounting for the functions of the administrative, financial, committee, business- and service-oriented areas for HACS primarily for the period 1998-2014 as overseen by President Ann Read.
This collection contains costumes worn at Archi-Arts Ball, Freshmen beanies, Rice cheerleading uniforms, athletic sweaters, uniforms, club and program t-shirts, from various campus-wide events.
The holding consists of papers relating to the Rice Quantum Institute, laser and laser fusion studies, articles and personal papers. Professor Tittel was a guest of the 1996 Nobel Prize investiture of his associates Robert Curl and Richard Smalley and his mementos of the occasion are included.
Photographs, correspondence, business records, diaries, scrapbooks and more, documenting the family and business lives of the Bonner and Howard families in Texas in the 20th century.
This collection contains the administrative files, meeting minutes and records, publications, audio/visual (DVDs) presentations, and reports for the Rice University Shell Center for Sustainability.
This collection contains business records, correspondence, newspaper clippings, photographs, audio, teaching materials, memorabilia, correspondence, and other items documenting the music career of Sara Hickman. It is divided into seven series.
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Equal Scary People," "Simply," "Last Night Was a Big Rain," "Meant to Be," "500x The Train Song," "Why Don't You," "I Wish I Were a Princess," "Take It Like a Man," "This Is a Man's World," "Song for My Father," "Under the Sycamore Tree," "Take It Like a Man (Reprise)"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Equal Scary People," "Simply," "Last Night Was a Big Rain," "Meant to Be," "500x The Train Song," "Why Don't You," "I Wish I Were a Princess," "Take It Like a Man," "This Is a Man's World," "Song for My Father," "Under the Sycamore Tree," "Take It Like a Man (Reprise)"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Salvador"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Equal Scary People"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Blue Eyes Are Sensitive to the Light"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Blue Eyes Are Sensitive to the Light"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Decadent"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "I Know"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "In the Fields"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "The Very Thing"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Looking for a Love," "Always on My Mind," "I Don't Want to Cry," "Why Do You Turn Away," "Take Me Back I'm Sorry," "Are You Lonely for Me Baby," "I Wanna Be with You," "Waiting in Vain," "I'll Take Good Care of You," "You Make Me Feel Brand New"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Secrets of Love," "I Love You," "Working Man," "Sweet Tooth," "Talk to Me," "Kayaking," "Windmill and the Wind," "Tenderness Place," "Peaches 'n Cream," "Winter Wonderland"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Track information is in Japanese.
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Everyone Goes to the Moon"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "This Heart"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Tiger in a Teacup Town"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "A Room of One's Own"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Pursuit of Happiness," "Shadowboxing," "The Best of Times," "Sister and Sam," "Time Will Tell," "Eye of the Storm," "Oh Daddy," "Room of One's Own," "Tiger in a Teacup Town," "Slippery," "Joy," "The Place Where the Garage Used to Stand Kookooobura"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Let Me Die in Angora"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Sweet Tooth," Trout Fishing in America - "No Matter What Goes Right"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Peaches and Cream"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Three Women," "Reserved for the One I Love," "Ain't Seen Nothing Yet," "Why Don't You," "Windmill and the Wind," "Unseen Angels," "Sincerity," "Time of Innocence," "When You Hold Me," "I Want to be Bad," "Goodbye and So Long to You," "Taxi to Your Heart," "Blue Diamond Minds," "Give It Every Little Thing You've Got," "Calm of Your Heart," "What a Little Moonlight Can Do"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Tiger in a Teacup Town," "One in Our Happiness," "Aurora," "Kayaking," "If We Send Our Hearts over Now," "In the Fields," "500x the Train Song," "Joy," "Take Whatever I Can Get," "This Heart"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: Lyle Lovett - "White Freight Liner Blues," "Eight Ball," Robert Earl Keen - "Merry Christmas from the Family"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Leonard Cohen's Day Job"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "The Dakota"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Includes 6 untitled tracks.
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Hush," "It's Alright a Capella," "A-Tisket A-Tasket," "Lily," "Goops in It," "This Heart," "Reserved for the One I Love," "Big Bird Little Bird," "Moonshadow," "You Are My Sunshine," "A Slice of Heaven," "All Things Bright and Beautiful," "It's Alright with Strings," "We Are Each Other's Angels," "Brahms Lullaby"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "23rd Psalm," "All Are Welcome," "Freely," "Haleluyah Pelo Tsa Roma," "Illuminated by Your Light," "Night of Silence," "Parce Domino," "Siyahmba," "Without Seeing You," "He Has the Power"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "We Are Each Other's Angels"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Standing Ground," "Life," "Kerosene," "Edward," "Woman Waiting to Happen," "I Wish I Could Run," "Everything's Red," "Dear Tracey," "Moment of Grace," "Bowl of Stars," "Come Around," "We Are EAch Other's Angels," "I'm Not Going Anywhere"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas," "Silent Night," "The Last Month of the Year," "Frosty the Snowman," "Angels Among Us," "Santa Clause Is Coming to Town," "The Reason We Have Christmas in the World Lil Bits Lullaby," "Kiss This Christmas Goodbye." Digital folder labeled x-mas_2001.
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Equal Scary People," "Simply," "Last Night Was a Big Rain," "Meant to Be," "500x The Train Song," "Why Don't You," "I Wish I Were a Princess," "Take It Like a Man," "This Is a Man's World," "Song for My Father," "Under the Sycamore Tree," "Take It Like a Man (Reprise)"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Just One Race"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Listen to the Radio"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas," "Silent Night," "The Last Month of the Year," "Frosty the Snowman," "Angels Among Us," "Santa Claus Is Coming to Town," "The Reason We Have Christmas in the World Lil Bits Lullaby," "Kiss This Christmas Goodbye"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Introduction," "Fishey," "Half Pint Library," "Holly McPolly," "A Slice of Heaven," "Moonlit Hide and Seek," "I Like My Boots," "What Amanda Saw," "Weenie Man," "Sara Says Goodbye"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Io," "Iolana," "Cantaloupe," "Ooh La La," "Middle of the Little Country Road," "Eat My Breakfast," "Look at Me," "Louise," "Pledge," "Little Seed," "Radiation Man," "Pink on the Inside," "Green Beans," "Here It Comes," "My Sista My Friend," "Nanatime Armadillo Story," "Little Yella Dog," "Belinsky," "I Wish I Were a Princess," "Spinach," "It's Fall," "Space Poetry," "Pillowman," "That's Your Red Wagon," "Rainstick," "I Wish You Well," "Prayer for Peace"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "A Song of You," "To a Maddening Ghost," "Wagoner's Lad," "Living in Quiet Desperation," "Mad World," "Twenty Years to Life," "Mother's Little Helper," "Comfort's Sigh," "My Mama's Hands," "Birdhouse," "Two Days Later," "Learn You Like a Book," "Are We Ever Gonna Have Sex Again?," "Stupid Love!," "Good," "Enuf," "Always a Saint," "Little Bird of Anger," "This Too Will Pass," "You Reward"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Iolana," "Big Trouble"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Stupid Love," Shake Russell and Jack Saunders - "Two Old Dogs," Trout Fishing in America - "Sleepytime Cartoon"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Risk," "148," "Satin Sheets for Alice," "Man Full of Courage"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "It's Alright"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "I'm So Glad You Came Along," "Suitcase," "Size Six Dress," "State of Emergency," "Edentown," "99 Percent," "Blown Away," "Broken," "Before You Change Your Mind," "Juliet and Juliet," "Last Man in the Water," "Last of a Dying Breed," "Love Is There"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: Willie Nelson - "Simply," Patrice Pike - "Woman Waiting to Happen," Graham Wilkinson - "Two Days Today," Andrew Perry - "E Cosi Desio Me Mena," Ray Von Foster - "Give It Every Little Thing You've Got," After Math - "Larger Than Life," LZ Love - "I Couldn't Help Myself," The Nauer-Neverly Bros. - "False Pretenses," David Garza with Todd Wolfson - "Risk," Gretchen Phillips and Rob Halverson - "Tiny Movies," Colin Gilmore - "After the Fall," Rhett Miller - "Last Night Was a Big Rain," Elizabeth Wills - "Eye of the Storm," Shelley King - "Open up to Me," Marcia Ball - "Strong Woman," Trish Murphy with Charlie Sexton - "The Best of Times," The Djembabes - "It's in the Water," Christine Albert and Chris Gage - "Take Me with You," Robert Earl Keen - "Under the Sycamore Tree," Edie Brickell and New Bohemians - "Shadowboxing," Abra Moore - "Dear Tracey," Jimmy LaFave - "Standing Ground," Sarah Fox and Joel Guzman - "I Wear the Crown," The Flatlanders - "Comfort's Sigh," Betty Soo - "Sister and Sam," Ana Egge - "Joy," White Ghost Shivers - "Kayaking," Trout Fishing in America - "The Place Where the Garage Used to Stand," Darden Smith - "No Name for Love," Shawn Colvin - "Time Will Tell," Jess Klein - "The One," The Daze - "Hey Where You Goin'," Joe McDermott - "The Very Thing," Suzanna Choffel - "Matter of Time," Ruthie Foster - "Look at It This Way," The Sutcliffes - "Too Fast," Matt the Electrician - "Middle of a LIttle Country Road," Brave Combo - "Simply"
These files are digitized master copy WAVs and access copy MP3s. Tracks include: "Welcome Home," "Mother Earth Father Time," "All the Pretty Little Horses," "Dream Life," "Edelweiss," "Moon Lullaby," "The Sky Is Gone," "You Remind Me," "Beautiful Boy," "Never Never Land," "Circle of Love," "Family Tree," "Goodnight My Angel"
These born digital audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3 located at scholarship.rice.edu.
This collection consists of digital images, hard copies of lyrics, news clippings, photographs, business records, and other items chronicling Lynn Langhams 1970s to early 1980s career.
Digital images include those of Lynn Langham, Shake Russell, Dana Cooper, John Vandiver, and Lucinda Williams. Contains the following: wrc08563, wrc08564, wrc08566, wrc08567, wrc08568, wrc08571, wrc08572, wrc08573, wrc08574.
These born digital video files consist of one master copy mov and one access copy located at scholarship.rice.edu.
Contents include: Master wav and access copy mp3 files. Songs include: "Stones in the River," "Dreams on the Wind," "The Key," "All of That Love," "On Any Given Day," "I'm Not Surprised," "Just a Little Pain," "Baby Have You Seen the Moon," "Trains," "I Have Been Waiting," "Heart of Hearts," "That's the Way the Teardrops Fall," "Only a Woman," "Old Yellow Moon"
Brochsteins Inc. corporate records contains architectural drawings, images, and business records from 1935-2000.
These papers relate to the scholarly and teaching career of J. Dennis Huston. They reflect the courses he taught on the plays of Shakespeare and other British Renaissance dramatists, on detective fiction, and on works constituting the Western humanities tradition. Also included are materials reflecting the administration of Rice University's required Humanities Foundation Course. There are syllabi of Huston courses, student evaluations of these courses, articles written by others about the teaching of writing, varied short texts written by Huston, correspondence, news clippings, photographs, and ephemera.
This collection consists of School of Engineering Studies, Plans and reports, as well as related materials from Rice University and other institutions.
The Rice University Young Alumni Committee records, 1977-2005 consists of meeting minutes and records of activities during each of the earliest years of the committee. It includes documents distributed to recruit new members, reaching out to Houston area alumni roughly within ten years of graduation. There is also information about the decision to establish and annual award to be made to an alumna or alumnus with the graduation year in the Young Alumni range. The Young Alumni Committee became the Young Alumni Host Committee and continues as part of the Association of Rice Alumni.
The collection consists entirely of images taken during the first ten years of the Rice Bioengineering Department. The media they represent are photographic prints, slides, and CDs. The subjects range from portraits of faculty members to posed groups of students. There are pictures of faculty and students at work, of departmental celebratory events, and of the the department's building location as well as other campus buildings.
The Computational Engineering Building Construction records are comprised of the records, drawings, manuals, correspondence, and samples generated during the planning and construction of Duncan Hall between 1992 and 1996. Submittals of plans and material samples from contractors comprises the largest portion of the collection. These records include transmittals and other correspondence. The second large portion is the project manager's alphabetical files, which includes correspondence with contractors and the university, photographs, and some drawings. The collection also contains a large selection of civil, architectural, structural, and mechanical/electric drawings and schematics. Smaller portions include the building manuals, meeting minutes and schedules.
John T. Jones, Jr. papers document his business dealings through his business and non-profit interests, and public appearances, as well as his personal and family life. Included are correspondence, newsclips, military records, income tax and insurance records, photographs and speeches.
This holding consists of paperwork, slides, newsclippings, photographs, speeches, and paraphernalia relating to the C.D. Broad Exchange between Rice University and Trinity College, Cambridge. Copies of some materials are also contained on a CD.
This collection consists of publications across various mediums, from novels and cookbooks, to newletters and magazines, as well as papers from events celebrating and recording lebsian history.
This collection includes biographical information about individuals in the Ayers, Brown, McCarty, Martin, Diller, Boettner, Crump, Raynor, Ball, Freytag and Bergeson, families, among others. The bulk of the collection involves people and events ranging from the mid 19th century to the mid 20th century. The collection of photographs, letters, business records, war memorabilia, vintage fashion wardrobe, costumes, books, oral history interview, and objects of art serve to document the life and times of the Ayers family and allied families. Photo-journals, scrapbooks, real estate and legal documents, maps, as well as wardrobe items created by, for, and about the allied families cover their personal and professional lives. The kinship networks cover a geographic range from the U.S. Mid-Atlantic states to the Midwest, and into the Deep South of the 19th and early 20th century. Venturing from family careers in banking, medicine, and textiles, a branch of the family migrated South and pursued commerce and professions including Southern agriculture, church ministries, and academia. This branch of the Ayers, Brown, and Martin families moved from Illinois to Mississippi just before the U.S. officially entered World War I. The collection includes material from the kinship network of the allied families as family members moved within the New Jersey/New York region, the Midwest, the American Great Plains and the Deep South from the 19th century into the 1960s.
Well-preserved original materials, as well as copies, serve as evidence of a narrative and material history of the allied families' land, houses, commercial businesses, professions, personal possessions, travels, and holdings, as well as information about various sources of income and assets. Business and personal records document the transfers and the chain of possession of both assets and material collections as they were inherited and inventoried in successive generations. References and materials related to the artistic, literary, and philanthropic work of family members are cross-referenced to other collections. An 1889 wedding quilt in a crazy-quilt pattern of silk ribbons, velvet, and other textile materials is well preserved, along with the names and faces of each young woman (friends of the bride) who contributed the material and labor. Several Ayers family members served in The Great War/World War I, and the collection contains photographic, telegraphic, textile, and other documentation of the military service, including documentation of experiences in training, domestic and foreign assignments, medals, uniforms, repatriation and return to civilian life. Due to a family interest in photography and photographic equipment, the Ayers collection contains a chronological sampling of various types of photography (tin type, negative and positive, sepia toned, black and white, color, slides, and various types and sizes of prints, many numbered, indexed and/or with the identifying tags or labels from exhibits. The photography is the work product of several family members.
Aspects of commercial agriculture are detailed in the records of the Ayers family short-lived venture into Southern plantation ownership. The documentation of their management, losses, real estate holdings, labor and leasing practices, capital investments, environmental and natural disaster conditions, transportation and commerce is provided in some detail. Records from careers in academia, civil engineering, medicine, the Presbyterian ministry, banking, transportation, art history and philanthropy are interspersed throughout the collection. College and university material including yearbooks, notebooks, academic papers, and photography from several institutions in Illinois, Wisconsin, Iowa, Ohio, Missouri and Mississippi - primarily in the first half of the 20th century - are included. Flooding along the Mississippi River basin is documented and commented upon.
Diaries, sermons, tape recordings, an oral history interview, calendars, legal documents, receipts, and letters connect various people to their inventories of ration books, vintage cigar boxes, recipes, magazines, wedding and funeral items, political affiliations, sermons, and academic report cards through the decades. Travels (in war, for business, for medical rehabilitation, leisure, and scouting) ranging from the World War I era through the 1950s are well documented by private photography and letters, as well as commercial postcards, marked maps, brochures, and receipts. Skeleton keys, inventories of furnishings, scripts and playbills, costumes, a bust, art exhibit brochures, souvenirs and published literature mark the artistic output of the family members, as well as consumer taste. The oral history interview extends through the Vietnam War era and the disaster of Hurricane Katrina, as experienced in Mississippi by the interviewee.
The collection consists of slides used by Dr. Dufour, including published series by NASA, various observatories, and commercial publishers, along with Dufour's slides.
The collection of Baker-Ripley Foundation records chronciles the existence of the Houston Settlement Association/Neighborhood Centers, Inc. with Ripley House and their subsequent merger through its business records that include organizational/historical, financial, meetings, property and building-related, legal and administrative holdings.
This collection consists of digital audio files and images documenting the Houston folk scene of the 1970s-1980.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain Vince Bell playing live at Anderson Fair Retail Restaurant. Tracks include: "Roll Me Easy," "Nothin'," "What a Change She's Made in Me," "Oklahoma Wind," "From Your Eyes," "Slowly Goes the Motion," "Ladance at the Last Chance Saloon," "All through My Days," "Me and Loretta," "Even Cowboys Get the Blues," "I Shall Be Released," "Willin'," "Long Distance Lover," "Guacamole Queen," "I've Come to See Your Truck"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain Bill Cade "a live in the living room" recording. Tracks include: "Cottonfields," "Roll Me Easy," "Saturday," "Storm on the River," "Tennessee Stud," "Song Bird," "It's a Sin," "Balloon Man," "Sweet Misery"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain Bill Cade and Stephen Jarrard live at Anderson Fair Retail Restaurant. Tracks include: "Sailin' Shoes," "Close Encounters," "Hotel Mirabella, "A Political Blues," "Ships at Sea," "Black Mountain Rag," "Poor Pitiful Me," "Saturday," "Let's Get Lost in the Lights Tonite," "Lay Down Sally," "Rodeo Man," "Paradise," "Berkley Woman"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain songs by Stephen Jarrard and Franci Files on "The Little Ol' Show That Comes on After Monty Python" and Bill Cade with Stephen Jarrard. Tracks include: "Morning Breeze," "Last Dance at the Last Chance Saloon," "Pineapple and Rum," "Merry Go Round," "Angels in Disguise," "Railroad Blues," "Saturday," "Tenessee Stud" "A Woman's Place," "Berkley Woman," "Paradise," "Good Night Irene," "So Long Honey Bare," "In Love with a Good Woman," "Doing the Best You Can," "Don't Let the Sunshine Fool You," "Gotta Get Back to Texas," "Hey Saturday," "Big River" - Not all tracks listed.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain songs by Stephen Jarrard and Franci Files, Eric Taylor, and Bill Cade.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain songs by Eric Taylor and Bill Cade.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain Bill Cade on the Crystal Egg radio show hosted by Roger Ruffcorn.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain Bill Staines and Bill Cade and Joe Romano live at Anderson Fair Retail Restaurant. Tracks include: "Rosville Fair," "Rodeo Rose," "Last Thing on My Mind," "Old Silver," "Phoenix," "Lovers and Losers," "Do Re Mi," "Roll Alabama Roll," "Yodel Song," "Up and Away," "Good Nite," "All God's Critters"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain songs by Bill Cade, Eric Taylor, John Grimaudo, and Stephen Jarrard.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain songs by Stephen Jarrard, Eric Taylor, Bill Cade, John Grimaudo, and Linda Lowe [?] recorded live at Anderson Fair Retail Restaurant. Tracks include: 1st track is missing, "Rooty Toot Toot," "Joselin Jocelyn," "Angels in Disguise," "Shoe Shine Boy," "France Blues," "Losing / Willing," "Mooney," "By and By," "Good Mornin' Blues," "Sun Down Blues," "Boats," "Game of Hearts," "Cocaine," "Viper," "Goin' Down to Baltimore," "Sweet Misery," "Lay Down Sally," "Take Five," Track 20 guitar tuning, "Company"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain Richard Dobson on the Crystal Egg radio show hosted by Roger Ruffcorn.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain The Horse's Mouth and Dr. Rockit playing live at Anderson Fair Retail Restaurant. Tracks include: "Hear Those Jungle Drums," "The Blues Won't Take You by Surprise," "Tossing and Turning," "Midnight Hour," "I Love the Woman," "Signifying Monkey," "Hey Pocky-Way," "Walking the Dog," "Route 66," "Mornin' Rain," "Road Runner," "Money," "Anyday Now"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain Terry and the Telephones playing live at Anderson Fair Retail Restaurant. Tracks include: "Bright City Lights," "New World," "Something Good," "Tan Shoes and Pink Shoelaces," "Just Gimme Some Kind of Sign," "Little Sister," "So Fine," "Tonite's the Nite," "Hooked on Love," "What Can I Do," "Together Again," "Hats," "Walk with the Wild West End," "Tan Shoes and Pink Shoelaces," "Bright City Lites," "Good Clean Fun," "A Woman's World," "Let the Good Times Roll," "Tune into Heaven," "Give Me Your Love in a Song"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain the Cypress Swamp Stompers live at Anderson Fair Retail Restaurant. Tracks include: "Sniff," "Red Man," "Georgia Brown," "Beggar Man," "Footprints in the Snow," "Dog's Rag," "My Windown Faces South," "This Heart Is Mine," "Miss Mollie," "Jersualem Ridge," "White Oak Stomp," "Palmadell [ sp?] Portal Service"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain John Grimaudo and Dr. Rockit live at Anderson Fair Retail Restaurant.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain Dr. Rockit live at Anderson Fair Retail Restaurant. There are 3 CD tracks, but ? songs. Songs include: "?"; "Hey Pocky A-Way"; "Come on Dance"; "Lean Mean, But Good"; "High Blood Pressure"; "Signifying Monkey"; "The Blues Stew"; "The Tighten Up"; "96 Tears"; "Louie Louie"; "Jailhouse Rock"; "School Day"; "Dr. Feelgood"; "Road Runner"; "Money"; "I Love the Woman"; "Gimme Some Lovin'"; "Twist and Shout"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain songs by Rick, André, Pete, and Jerry in Houston. Tracks include: "Mr. Blue," "How Come You Don't Want What You Got", "Ballad of Hank and Rita," "Full Time Woman," "Spittin' in the Wind"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain Bill Cade and friends playing live at Anderson Fair Retail Restaurant.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain the Rat Creek songs: "Where the Old Gret Divide Starts the Young Rio Grande," "Backyard," "Cat in the Window," "Don't Cork That Bottle," "Evant Stockyards," "Everyone's Full," "Jug Band Music," "Ripple in Still Water," "Intro," "Steel Guitar Rag," "Back Street Girl," "White Freight Liner," "Stranded," "Goin' Back to Texas," "Truck Drivin' Man," "Banjoy Song," "In the Jailhouse Now," "Old Kentucky Home," "Anyone Who Must Leave Us," "Weekend," "Fade." Songs recorded at the Old Quarter, Saxon Pub, Rat Manor, and by Pete Gorisch, primarily from 1971-1973.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain a live performance by Aileen and Elkin at Anderson Fair Retail Restaurant. Tracks include: "Jolie Girl," "Country Girl," "Back to the Hills," "Paradise," "Living Country Style," "Starving Miners," "Love Is a Rose," "Squealie's Love," "Sidewalk Man," "For You," "Regina," "Cowboys"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain Vince Bell playing live at Anderson Fair Retail Restaurant. Tracks include: 1- "Oklahoma Wind," 2 - "Words and Games," 3 - "Roll Me Easy / Mississippi Memory," 4 - "Slowly," 5 - "Train Whore," 6 - "Any Day Now," 7 - "The Blue Moon Lounge," 8 - "I Shall Be Released," 9 - "?" 10 - Audience cheering 11 - "Rainbow," 12 - "Coreena"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain Bill Cade. Tracks include: "26 Miles," "Fannin Street," "If It Wasn't for the Wind," "Trouble in Mind," "Pollin'," "Saturday," "It's a Sin," "American Dream," "Ace," "Heart of N'Orleans," "Down the Road," "I'll Be Your Baby Tonite," "Camp Hambone," "Auld Lang Syne"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain Bill Cade in the living room. Tracks include: "Too Long in the City," "Homemade Kites," "Trouble in Mind," "Good Mornin' Blues," "Heart of New Orleans," "Twenty Six Miles," "If Only I Hadn't Loved You So Well," "Balloon Man"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain Lyle Lovett on the Crystal Egg radio show hosted by Roger Ruffcorn.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain Don Sanders on the Crystal Egg radio show hosted by Roger Ruffcorn.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain Nobart and John Grimaudo on the Crystal Egg radio show hosted by Roger Ruffcorn.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain Hemmer Ridge Mountain Boys on the Crystal Egg radio show hosted by Roger Ruffcorn.
The audio tracks for this CD are corrupted. We only have a record of the tracks, which include: "Tree Balling Blues," "Police Dog Blues," "Take Five," "Chesterfield Blues," "Last Fair Deal," "Wing and a Prayer," "Rampart Street," "Terrible [?] Blues"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain Stephen Jarrard and Franci Files live at Hard Thymes Soup Kitchen. Tracks include: "Cakewalk," "Louisiana Man," "I Ain't Gonna Think about Trouble Anymore," "Hey Mr. Spaceman," "Circus Life," "May You Never," "Sailing Shoes," "Sweet Sweet Shine," "Jesus on the Main Line," Track 10 dead air, "Too Long in the City," "Last Dance at the Last Chance Saloon," "Silver Track," "The Boats They Come They Go," "If the Blues," "The Blues Won't Take You By Surprise," "Living on Tulsa Time," "I'm Goin' Fishing," "Do Re Me," "End"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain Bill Staines live at Friendly Folk. Tracks include: "Old Jack," "A Tree in Nebraska," "Cayote My Old Friend," "Yodel Song," "Oklahoma Bound," "Roseville Fair," "Jolie Girl, "The Boats," "Miles Upon Your Shoes," "North Land," "For a Dancer," "Crazy Leslie," "Hauling in the Wood," "Hard Times," "The Red Clay Country Blues," "Repaint You Thinners," "Where I Live"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav and one access copy mp3. Audio files contain Townes Van Zandt with Mickey White playing live at Anderson Fair Retail Restaurant. Tracks include: "All I Got Is Yesterday," "Dollar Bill Blues," "Don't Take It So Bad," "Snowing on Ratton," "Pancho and Lefty," "Sometimes It Happens That Way," "When I'm Gone," "Loretta," "White Freight Liner," "The Cuckoo," "The Indian Cowboy," "The Girls"
These digitized image files consist of one master copy tif and one access copy jpg.
These digitized image files consist of one master copy tif and one access copy jpg. Images include calendars for April, May (2), November, and December.
These born digital video files consist of one master copy mov and one access copy located at scholarship.rice.edu.
Collection contains two newspapers printed for Camp Logan, a souvenir pennant and
handkerchief.
8 framed and unframed Persian illuminated manuscripts from 14-16th centuries.
Minutes and notes representing the work of ad hoc and other committees at Rice University.
The papers document Dr. Aresu's teaching career at Rice University during the years of 1983 to 2013.
Two boxes of correspondence, news clippings, reports, publications, court documents, and organizational papers document Henry J. Dannenbaum's time as Special Assistant to the Attorney General of the United States working to enforce the Mann Act (White-Slave Traffic Act).
The Camp Young Judaea Collection consists of 1 box which contains artifacts, marketing materials, newsletters, and organizational materials that document the activities and operations of Camp Young Judaea in Texas and the surrounding region from 1949-2012.
The collection consists of files of meetings of the Rice Accounting Council from ca 1975-1988. The files may include agendas, table of contents, by-laws and constitutions, minutes, membership lists, financial information, publicity and other material presented at the meetings.
"Meetings" may include agendas, table of contents, by-laws and constitutions, minutes, membership lists, financial information, publicity and other materials presented at meetings.
The collection consists of records of meetings of the Council of Overseers, Jones Graduate School of Administration, including agendas, table of contents, by-laws and consitutions, minutes, membership lists, financial information, publicity and other material presented at the meetings.
The collection contains brochures, lectures, seminars, and reading materials for the workshop.
Prayer and worship items of the Jain religion, including embroidered textiles, wooden folding cradle for sacred text, framed mantra text with deity sculpture, red painted metal tray with accompanying red box with red vessel inside, and more.
The 2012-2013 interviews were conducted by students in two classes of the Introduction to the Study of Women, Gender, and Sexuality, one under Dr. Lora Wildenthal and the other under Dr. Abigail Rosas, in preparation for the 2014 exhibition and symposium at Fondren Library. All of these materials relate to Dr. Linda Driskill's Rice Women's Conference in 1999. Interviews conducted at that time are online at https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/75565, and are part of Rice University Women's Studies Records, UA 344, Woodson Research Center, Fondren Library, Rice University.
Interviewees with transcripts in this folder include: Bertha Guerra, Facilities Supervisor; Ginny Martin, Fondren Library; Patricia Jones, Property Administrator Accounting Supervisor; Mary Santos, Staff Asst. for Athletics; Nancy Rowe, Grounds Specialist; Venora Frazier, Baker College Coordinator
Academic and nursing certification records, as well as nursing career awards for Joana Po's distinguished service, from the 1980s through the 2000s.
Financial records documenting the career and activities of C. Y. Chu. Also included are C. Y. Chu's 1917 middle school diploma, a 1926 U.S. Dept. of Labor return permit, and more.
Photographs of family events and business gatherings. People pictured include C.Y. Chu, Albert Gee, Mr. Parker Gee, Ms. Wanto Chu, Mabel Gee, Mrs. Wing Hon (mother of Judy Gee Chong), Theresa Gee (mother of Rogene Gee Calvert), Helen Gee (wife of Shelton Gee), Shelton Gee, Mamie Gee (wife of Judge Ron Lew, 1st Asian American Federal Judge in the US), and others. Groups include Chinese Baptist Church First Anniversary, Oct. 3, 1954 Chinese Business Men's Dinner, at Timmy Chan Restaurant, Aug. 5, 1956, Houston, TX, unidentified men's dinner group possibly in Albert Gee's Poly-Asian Restaurant, unidentified dinner group at unidentified restaurant.
Groups include Chinese Baptist Church First Anniversary, Oct. 3, 1954; Chinese Business Men's Dinner, at Timmy Chan Restaurant, Aug. 5, 1956, Houston, TX; unidentified men's dinner group possibly in Albert Gee's Poly-Asian Restaurant; unidentified dinner group at unidentified restaurant
The collection consists of images in a variety of formats of people, buildings, and events and programs associated with the Jones Graduate School of Business since its early years in the late seventies until the first decade of the 2000s.
Six boxes of correspondence, programs and other event materials, books, newsletters, news clippings, bulletins, photographs, sermons, memorabilia, and video (VHS) and audio recordings document the history of, and activities at, Shearith Israel Congregation in Wharton, Texas, from 1921 to 2002. Of particular interest is the Parachet (Ark curtain) that was used in the Synagogue until it closed in 2002, video of the 75th anniversary banquet, photographs of the now destroyed Synagogue's interior and exterior including from the groundbreaking ceremony in 1956 and photographs from the last service at Shearith Israel in 2002.
One box containing news clippings, a dance card, a high school yearbook, programs, and photographs documents events in Gertrude Denn's life, 1938-2002. Of particular interest is a 1940 San Jacinto High School yearbook.
The records reflect the annual alumni events overseen by the Alumni Affairs office between the years of 1992 and 2012 and supervised by Jennifer Harding, Director of Reunion Programs and Special Events.
This collection contains decommissioned laboratory equipment from a variety of academic departments on the Rice University campus. Each item has been numbered and is physically described.
News clippings, newsletters, event programs, photographs, and slides document a small part of Ellen and Dan Trachtenberg's activism in support of Soviet Jews and attempts to better their lives. Of particular interest are photographs taken on a trip to the Soviet Union in 1985, and news clippings of protests held in Washington D.C. in support of Soviet Jews.
Books, correspondence, newspaper clippings, newsletters, photographs, and a speech document parts of Liberman's forty-plus years in the classroom. Of particular interest is a speech Liberman gave at a ceremony recognizing her first ten years teaching at I. Weiner Jewish Secondary School of Houston and a cookbook organized by the Hebrew Academy PTO which contains favorite recipes of parents, teachers, and staff.
One box of certificates, correspondence, memorabilia, photographs, publications, a commencement program, speeches, and a scrapbook document the lives of the Stephen and Ann Kaufman's family from 1900 to 2012. Of particular interest are a personal letter to Stephen Kaufman from Vice President Lyndon Johnson and a badge and general admission pass to the 1960 Democratic National Convention. There is also an oral history interview with Stephen Kaufman available online in our institutional repository: https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/110317.
Correspondence, awards and citations, photographs, scrapbooks, news clippings, newsletters, meeting minutes, and marketing and event materials document, primarily, the lives of the Croft and Kaplan families between the years 1931 and 2000, and the Wunsch family to a lesser degree. Of particular interest are letters written from Ida Kaplan Croft to her husband, Louis, during World War II, as well as numerous photographs spanning sixty years.
The Montrose Center records comprise meeting minutes, Board business, and community services-related records within the date range of 1980 to 2000. Total size is 2.5 linear feet, 3 boxes.
The collection includes individual files from the South Texas Jewish Archives including: newsclippings, notes, correspondence, photographs, and other materials. The contents are donated by community members and/or gathered by the HJHA staff.
Includes brochure on Communism, "An Affirmative Answer to Communism," written by Rabbi Kahn.
One typed draft of the book, "I Remember When," which is an anthology of essays written by residents of Seven Acres senior center as part of an essay writing contest. The volume was compiled by Emily Spector who was the chairperson of the Essay Committee.
One folder containing a skullcap, correspondence, and an invitation document a bar mitzvah held at the Rice University Chapel in 1991.
This file contains a letter from Greenhouse thanking the ladies from his congregation back home for a care-package he received while stationed at Camp Wolters.
The photo was taken at the construction site for Craig's Department store in Rice Village located at 2501 Univerisity Blvd. Persons in the photo from L to R are: Robert Grossman, Charles Grossman, Nancy Frimer Landa, and Gary Grossman (all children of the owners of Craig's).
Photographs of J.B. Lightman, Adele Heymann, Francis Schlosser, and Elizabeth Moser
Program booklet and commemorative grace after meals book
A bound copy of the Houston Chronicle's "History of Houston" from May 1929. The volume includes an article regarding H. Grossman.
One folder containing materials from the Second Jewish Feminist Conference, Yom Limmud workshop, "A Seder for the Soviet Jews."
Two photographs, a news clipping, and genealogy materials document a very small part of the Weingarten family's activities in the Houston Jewish community and the growth of Weingarten's grocery chain.
Seven boxes of audio and film reels, VHS and Beta video cassettes, mini-cassettes, compact discs, and DVDs created by Douglas Killgore document the history of Rice University from 1911-2013. Of particular interest is Killgore Productions' film, "The Trust: The Story of the Murder of William Marsh Rice" and the complete 1996 Nobel Prize in Chemistry presentation, with that year's recipients: Robert Curl, Harold Kroto, and Richard Smalley.
One box of personal correspondence, certificates, newspaper and newsletter clippings, photographs, memorabilia, and a scrapbook document the activities of four members of the Askanase family from 1948 to 2013. Of particular interest is personal correspondence from George Bush and Lloyd Bentsen, a scrapbook belonging to Reuben Askanase that includes newspaper clippings and photographs recording his community involvement in the Houston area, and a panoramic photo of the 1954 San Jacinto High School graduating class.
The George Meyer Family Photos and Memorabilia contains family photos, photos of the Loraine and George B. Meyer house on Holcombe Blvd. in Houston, a catalog of the company business, and a resolution on the death of Joseph F. Meyer.
Research materials in this collection include a list of burials at Olivewood Cemetery, burial maps, and photographs of the tombstone of Richard Allen. The materials date from 2008, when Louis Aulbach was actively volunteering with the cemetery.
The collection consists of one box of photographs, negatives, CDs, and memorabilia spanning the years 1980 to 2009.
This collection contains four boxes of photographs, clippings, correspondence, and newsletters related to members of the Geller and Leff families spanning 1896 to 2022.
The Jay Geller family papers contain black-and-white photographs of family members related to Jay Geller, including his father Isaac Meyer, aunts Leah Ramati and Shifra Ben-Zvi, great-uncles Rabbi Max Geller and Sam Geller (the latter married to Rose Geller)' and his great-great-grandfather Rabbi Jacob Geller. A family tree depicting the relationships between family members in the collection can be found in the control folder.
One box containing certificates, correspondence, a travel journal, photographs, a magazine article, event materials, and a Soviet Jewry nameplate documents Joyce Gilbert's activities in the Houston Jewish community and her work to assist Russian Jewry from 1975 to 2018. Of particular interest is Gilbert's travel journal in which she recorded her activities during two trips to the Soviet Union.
This collection contains a small number of programs, certificates, booklets, and correspondence regarding imminent Jewish Associations in Houston, such as Aleph Zadik Aleph, B'nai B'rith and Emanu El, as well as personal papers related to Aubrey Farb, such as Confirmation ephemera, a book of psalms, and a framed commission from the Marine Corps, and an oral history with Aubrey and Sylvia Farb recorded in 2018. The materials are in good condition, and range in date from 1938 to 2018. They would be valuable to a researcher looking into Jewish Institutions, or specifically at the history of Aubrey and Sylvia Farb.
This collection contains materials related to the Texas Jewish Feminist Conference, including pamphlets, a timeline, and correspondence providing an overview, as well as newsprint and speaking notes, including Sandra Block's opening speech. The materials range in date from 1984 to 1992, and are in good condition. This collection would be useful for any researcher interested in the confluence of Judaism and Feminism, or the development of Jewish organizations in Texas. Though it represents a small subset of the American Jewish Committee, it is not representative of the larger whole—a vast history, which has spanned a century of Jewish development on national and global fronts, involving issues as varied as the times.
This collection contains newsprint, photographs, documents such as membership lists and pamphlets, and groups of memorabilia such as t-shirts and matchboxes as well as unique items — a matzah cover, a dedicated gavel, and a ceramic planter in the shape of a shoe, as well as an oral history conducted with Libby Marvins by staff with the Houston Jewish History Archive in 2018. The materials are in good condition and range in date from 1940 to 2018. The collection would be a useful resource for researchers interested in local institutions and events, especially congregation Emanu El and its affiliated youth organizations, such as B'nai B'rith Women and Boy Scouts. With its brightly-colored T-shirts and unique memorabilia items, the collection would be ideal for exhibition. Though named for Libby and Edward Marvins, the materials (with the exception of the matzah cover, a family heirloom, and the dedicated gavel) are more relevant to a study of the Jewish community in Houston than a specific study of the Marvins family.
This collection contains photographs of the members of the Workmen's Circle in 1925 and 1945, along with a Certificate of Service from the National Jewish Welfare Board recognizing Edith Winograd (Stolbun) for her participation in the war-time program of the same. The materials are in good condition, and many of the subjects in the photographs are identified. This collection would be ideal for a researcher seeking to identify members of the Workmen's Circle, or exploring pillars of the Jewish community—either the people involved or the century-old organization itself. Researchers may find the size of the collection limiting, since it lacks any other documentation related to the Workmen's Circle, or even photographs from earlier than 1925 or later than 1945.
The materials in this collection consist of Martin Nathan's Bar Mitzvah Scrapbook, gift list of the same, and miscellaneous pictures of Nathan throughout his lifetime. The materials are in good condition, and range in date from 1944 to 1963, with one undated picture of Bob Hope, personally signed. This collection is both a stunning example of Jewish culture and tradition surrounding the bar mitzvah, the coming-of-age ritual in the Jewish faith, and a personal historic record of the Nathan family timeline. Many of the pictures are identified as relatives or other community figures. It also contains a Sakowitz credit card belonging to Marilyn Nathan, but issued to Mr. and Mrs. Martin Nathan before women could get credit in their own names. Researchers may find that the collection is limited in its mostly photographic content, though the scrapbook also contains a certificate of service and single news clipping with the date of the bar mitzvah on it.
This collection contains two newsletters, dated 1991 and 1995, highlighting programs and events put on by Seven Acres, as well as a Gala Program from 2015. The materials are in good condition, and would be useful to researchers interested in the Houston Jewish community, particularly how the aged are viewed and cared for. Though small in scale, and only containing materials from the later years of the facility, the materials contain photos and other details capable of painting a vibrant picture of the community over time.
Two boxes containing correspondence, military paperwork, media, photographs, a scrapbook, and JCC and Workmen's Circle materials document the lives of members of the Bell family from 1910 to 2004. Of particular interest are the Bell family photo albums. This collection forms part of the South Texas Jewish Archives.
One folder containing a photograph, merchandise tokens, and an historical write-up about the Levine brothers documents a small part of the history of Levine Bros. General/Department Store in Sealy, Texas, between the years 1947 and 2018. Of particular interest is a photograph of Gus and Maurice Levine taken in 1947 inside their store in Sealy.
One box containing correspondence, certificates, invitations, photographs, booklets, memorabilia and realia documents Betsy Schreiber's family from 1897 to 1996.
Six boxes containing immigration materials, correspondence, marriage records, directories, programs, newsletters, news clippings, photographs, scrapbooks, and memorabilia document the lives of members of the Kaufman and Eskowitz families from 1896 to 2008. Forms part of the South Texas Jewish Archives.
One box of materials (programs and booklets) from events in Beaumont, including Congregation Emanuel and Congregation Kol Israel, an ethnic history of Beaumont, and photographs of Horwitz's family members and groups from Kol Israel between the years 1952 and 1987. Of particular significance is a photo of Horwitz's mother, uncle, and aunt inside Adler's clothing store in Beaumont and event programs from the now merged Congregation Kol Israel.
This collection consists of posters collected by Jerry "Scooter" Ebel.
Listed performers include: Vince Bell, Cypress Swamp Stompers, Reb Smith, Bill and Lucille Cade, Circus, Devil's Wall, Dogtooth Violet, Eric Taylor, Country Stones, George Ensle, Don Sanders, Whiskey Dream
Listed performers include: Don Sanders, Cypress Swamp Stompers, Cade, George Ensle, Rick Dinsmore, Bill Haymes, Eric Taylor, Stephen Jarrard, Bill Staines, Dogtooth Violet
Listed performers include: Boozoo Chavis, Rockin Sidney, Chris Ardoin and Double Clutchin, Rosie Ledet, Step Rideau and the Zydeco Outlaws
This collections consists of fliers and posters collected by Steve Tostenyard.
Performers listed include: Stephen Stills, Dallas Taylor, Paul Harris, Calvin "Fozzy" Samuels, The Memphis Horns, Crazy Horse
Performers listed include: Jerry Jeff Walker, Milton Chesley Carroll, Kinfolk and Friends, Elgin Movement
Performers listed include: Bloontz All Stars, Carntree, Bargle
Performers listed include: Willie Nelson, Doug Sahm, Billy Joe Shaver, Flyod Tillman, Charlie Harris, Milton Carol, Freda and the Firedogs
This collection consists of digitized wav and mp3 files, along with jpeg images of the original 2-track audio reels created by Peter Gardner. This audio mainly covers live recordings at the Jewish Community Center and live tapings of the radio show "The Sampler."
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Skip Weshner's show recorded at The Village Gate in Greenwich Village, NY. Audio is poor. In order of performance, Ron and Nama, Gene and Francesca, The Gardners
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Skip Weshner's show recorded at The Village Gate in Greenwich Village, NY. Audio is poor. In order of performance, Theodore Bikel and Geula Gill. The reel lists a separate group of performers who were on the same show, but not in the recorded section.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Mike Janus; Tape b contains: Josh White via album, Bob Gibson at the Ash Grove live previous recording, The Gardners live at the Ash Grove "Cockleshells," "Morena"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Skip Weshner's show features Will Holt - "Raspberries, Strawberries," and three other songs. Gene and Francesca sing the final song. Audio quality is poor.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Taped at Gerde's Folk City, WBAI-FM. In order of performance, The Cumberland Three, Judy Bronk, Theodore Bikel, The Gardners - "Morena," "Tumbalalaika," "The Keeper" At this point, Isabel performs as Mira.; The Song Spinners: Logan English, Stella Graham, Marty Lauren, Jack Kennon
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Skip Weshner's show at 1 Sheridan Square features in order Ramblin' Jack Elliott; Peter La Farge; Oscar [?]; The Clancy Brothers and Tommy Makem; Billy Faier; Brother John Sellers; Billy Faier; John Stauber. Audio quality is poor.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Skip Weshner's show recorded at Cafe Kasit in Tel Aviv, Israel. In order of performance, Jacques Manahem, Anita Sheer and Jacques Manahem, Oranim Zabar Troupe: Dov Seltzer, Geula Gill, Michael Kagan
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Peter Childs - dobro instrumental, "Titanic"; Arthur Hodges and company -"Brazos," Peter Childs - "Lay on That Job Too Long," "Sixteen Tons," Instrumental, "The 219 Train"; Arthur Hodges - "Blue Mountain," 12-string guitar; b-recording: casual recording of The Gardners [?] and others
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Frank Davis and Kay Oslin - solos and duets, mostly Frank Davis
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Jam session, contains conversations. The trio performed in Houston at the Music Hall on 1963-08-17. Based on accents the location of the recording is in the southern U.S.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Casual recordings of Peter Childs and Knob Lick Upper 10,000
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Pete Rose, Gene Bryant, Paul Butts - bluegrass band
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Isabel Gardner later Isabelle Ganz, Mary Helen Kuhne, Abbie Lipschutz, and Howie Porper performing Jewish and Israeli folk music.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Reel 1: Roger Abrahams taught English at the University of Texas. Reel 2: Contents include: side a: same as above, side b: classical music event first part, later - is a practice session, others speaking in background, a man performing
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: In order of performance - Alex Martin, The Gospel Mellowtones from the Bella Vista Baptist Church in Houston, Alex Martin, The Gospel Mellowtones
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Practice tape of Isabelle Ganz and Peter Gardner "Morena," Stories read aloud recorded from the radio, Isabelle Ganz, Peter Gardner, and others practicing "Serenade" by Hadyn, other song unknown; various radio content
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: John A. Lomax, Jr., John Q. Anderson, professor of English at Texas A and M University, Jim McConnell. This performance is a song swap format.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Handel - Overture to "Theodora" for Strings and Klavier; Mozart - Concerto #3 for Cembalo in E Flat Major K. 107 from a Clavier Sonata by Johann Christian Bach; Geminaiani - Concerto Grosso in B Flat Major, Op. 3, No. 5 for Strings and Klavier; Telemann - Concerto for Violin and Violincello in E Major; Locatelli - Concerto Grosso for String Orchestra and Klavier in E. Major, Op. 1, no. 6. Musicians include: Violins: Fredell Lack Eichhorn, Juri Jelagin, Richard Collins, Doris Musgrave; Violas: Wayne Crouse, Violetta Moncada; Violincello: Shirley Trepel; Contrabass: Philip Edley; Cembalo and Musical Director: Albert Hirsh
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: The American Caravan Singers doing songs from an unreleased recording. Singers and players include: Ed Badeaux, Peter Gardner, Jim McConnell, and Howard "Howie" Porper. Reel 2 seems to be the second part of this concert, although the box is not labeled clearly.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Jim Womack and John A. Lomax, Jr. song swap
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Casual recording of Frank Davis and Kay Oslin
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Segle Fry from Dallas, TX.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: John A. Lomax, Jr. and Los Galleros
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Reel 1: Frank Davis and Kay Oslin singing duets and solos. Jim Gunn is on bass. Tracks include: Tape a: "Big Fat Woman," "John Hardy," "Sand Mountain," "Old Paint," "The Cuckoo," "Bill Campbell," "Jean Harlow," "Sun"; Tape b: "Every night," "Devil and the Farmer's Wife," "Long John," "Pretty Polly," "When I Was a Cowboy," "In the Pines". Reel 2: Contents include: Frank Davis and Kay Oslin singing duets and solos. Jim Gunn is on bass. Tracks include: "Jole Blon," "God Bless the Child," "My Home's Across the Smokey Mountains," "The Brazos," "Rattlesnack Mountain," "Big Fat Woman," "Irene"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: "Little Maggie" - Carolyn Terry, Peter Childs; "Motherless Child" - Frank Davis, Peter Childs, Sara Wiggins, Carolyn Terry; "Long John Green" - John A. Lomax, Jr. with others repeating lines in unison
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Reel 1: John A. Lomax, Jr. describes the society, its history, and is the master of ceremonies. Davy Jones - "East Virginia," "Bobby Campbell"; Rick Kelly and Bob Stetson - "The Road to Freedom," "I'm Going Home"; Mrs. Joe Liday [?] - "Battle of New Orleans," "Lass from the Low Country"; Mike Rickard [?] and George Lyons [?] - "Mr. Tambourine Man," "Call Me Lonesome"; Carolyn Terry - "Shake Sugaree," "The Demon Lover"; Tom Reeve [?] - "Freight Train," "900 Miles"; Brian Evans and Dave Singleton - "River Is Wide," Peter, Paul and Mary instrumental; John Rogers - "Come My Son". Reel 2: Contents include: John A. Lomax, Jr. is the master of ceremonies. Hank Slaughter - "Tell Old Bill," "Goodbye Rosalita"; Ken Boggs - Instrumental, "Empty Pocket Blues"; Linda Miller - "Donna Donna," "Five Hundred Miles," "Two Brothers"; Joe Johnson, Bill Taylor, and Michael White - "Steel Guitar Rag," "Beaumont Rag," Instrumental; Sharon Steenberg - "Bittersweet," "Remember the Alamo"; Pete Wheeler - "Poor Little Turtledove," "Little Margaret"; George Lyons [?] - "All I Really Want to Do," "She Loves You," "Blues in My Bottle," "Motorcycle Song"; Recording abruptly ends.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Reel 1: The Moonshiners - "Darling Nelly Gray," "Greenland Fisheries," "Rattler's Pup," "Let Those Brown Eyes Smile at Me," "Orange Blossom Special," "The Girl I Left in Sunny Tennessee," Instrumental, "The Little White Washed Chimney," "We'll Meet Again Sweetheart," Instrumental, Instrumental, "A Flower Blooming in the Wildwood," "Banks of the Ohio," "Homestead on the Farm," 'Uncle Pen," "Speedy John Hardy," "The Blue Ridge Mountain Blues," "It Ain't Gonna Rain No More," "Roll in My Sweet Baby's Arms," Instrumental, "The Salty Dog Blues," "Sinking of the Rueben James," "Goodbye, Mary Dear". Reel 2: Contents include: The Moonshiners - "Old Salty Dog Blues," "Old Joe Clark," "Let Those Brown Eyes Smile at Me," Instrumental, "The Blue Moon of Kentucky," "Mountain Dew," "Home on the Hill"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Dave Parker, classical guitarist
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: "Albur de Amor" (Ranchera), "Desden" (Peru's Waltz), "El Quelite," "Caminante Del Mayab" (Yucatan), "Adios" (Peru). Performers: Rosario Aragon, Guadalupe Jimenez, Pedro Munoz, Horacio Bigurra, Fernando Rojas, Emilio Parades; Sarah Wiggins and Jim McConnell - "In Terry Town"; Peter Childs and Jim McConnell - "Nine Pound Hammer (Roll on Buddy)," "Darby Ram," "Stagolee," "St. Louis Blues"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Paul Johnson - "Coal Town," "Diamond," "Lesson Too Late," "Winkin and Blinkin," "Atom," "Trig," "Silvie," "Soul Song," "Oh My Lady"; Kathy Rote - "The Wild Rippling Waters," "Early, Early in the Spring," "A Dog Named Blue," "Duncan and Brady," "Two Little Boys," "Dear Companion," "Cotton Mill Girls," "I've Got Mine," "Me and My Uncle"; Carolyn Terry - "Hootenanny Granny," "Blues My Naughty Sweetie Gives to Me," "I Love My Darling, Oh," "Young Girl Cut Down in Her Prime," "The Unquiet Grave," "Sand Mountain Blues," "Shake Sugaree," "One Grain of Sand," "Inside a Lion"; Gary White - "The Royal Canal," "Standing on the Outside of Your Shelter," "Man of Constant Sorrow," "Hannah McGlue [?]," "Snake Cure," "Winnsboro Cotton Mill Blues," "Little Margaret," "Hungry Hash House," "High Flying Bird." Reel abruptly ends.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Amy Goodenough - "Circle Around the Sun," "Fragments"; Jim McConnell - "Other Side of Jordan," "Rude and Ramblin' Man"; Amy Goodenough - "Pretty Polly," "Grey Cock," with Paul Johnson "Winken and Blinken and Nod"; Jim McConnell - "I Don't Reckon That'll Happen Again," "Ballad of Otto Wood," "Deep River Blues,"; Amy Goodenough - "New Shoes Blues"; Jim McConnell - "Quince Brigada," with Uda McConnell "Sunny Side of Life"; Amy Goodenough - "Lucky Joe," "A Living Song"; Jim McConnell - "Tom Dooley," "Stay Away from the Girls"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Side a: Amy Goodenough - "Cotton Mill Girls"; Jim McConnell and Amy Goodenough- "Delia's Gone," "He's in the Jailhouse Now"; Amy Goodenough - "The Dove"; Jim McConell - "When God Dips His Love"; Amy Goodenough - "A Blacksmith Courted Me," "Seven Sons in Yarrow"; Not from Jewish Community Center Concert, but from "The Sampler" - Guy Clark - "Pans of Biscuits"; Peter Childs - instrumental "Buckdancer's Choice"; Side b: Not from concert, home recordings - Guy Clark and Sarah Wiggins [?] - "Come All You Fair and Tender Ladies," "When First Unto This Country," "Where I'm Bound," "Keep Your Hands Off Her"; Carolyn Terry - "Little Maggie"; Guy Clark - "Frankie and Johnny," "Black Jack David"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Performance by unknown artist - Pete Wheeler [?] - "Sylvie," "Oh My Lady" [?]; Paul Johnson - "The Talking Atomic Blues" aka "Old Man Atom," a section of the song repeats, "Prelude et Impromptu" again song ends and then repeats the last section, "The Last Think on My Mind," "In the Hills of Shiloh," "Angel on My Shoulder"; incomplete - Townes Van Zandt - "The Talking KKK Blues," Paul Johnson - "Heather on the Hill," makes a reference to Townes Van Zandt "Give Me the Wine"; Amy Goodenough and Paul Johnson - "Song for Canada" incomplete; Paul Johnson; Paul Johnson - "Green Grow the Lilacs"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Peter Childs and Peter Gardner - "Brazos"; Shel Silverstein - "Folk Singers Blues," "Beans Taste Fine," "It Does Not Pay to be Hip," "Blue Eyes," "Bananas," "Liz," "You're Always Welcome at Our House," "25 Minutes to Go"; Leadbelly all tracks from Sings Folk Songs, Folkways Records FA 2488.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Casual recording: Jim McConnell and Peter Childs on banjo - "I Saw the Light"; Instrumental; Jim McConnell, Peter Childs, Peter Gardner - "Somewhere Listening," "Aunt Rhody," "Two Little Boys," Gary White [?], Sarah Wiggins [?], and others "That's What You Get for Lovin' Me," "Don't Thnk Twice, It's All Right," "Follow the Drinking Gourd," "I Got a Home in That Rock," "So Cane" [?]
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Casual recording of Peter Childs and Frank Davis
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Casual recordings of Peter Childs
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: "San Francisco Bay Blues," "Stack O' Lee," "The Last Thing on My Mind," "My Name is Morgan," "It's the Same the Whole World Over," "Winnsboro Cotton Mill Blues," "Gary Gould's Daughter," "I Ride an Old Paint," "What Have They Done to the Rain," "Go Tell It on the Mountain," "Buffalo Skinners," "Buck Dancer's Choice"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: "Get up and Go," "You're Gonna Need Somebody on Your Bond," "The Old Fish Song," "Foggy Foggy Dew," "It Takes a Worried Man"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Extensive jam sessions from casual recordings. Various singers and players. Guy Clark - "Hello Bill" sings part of song; Guy Clark and Sarah Wiggins [?] - "Shake Sugaree," "Rambler, Gambler"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Woman singer, does a duet with Peter Gardner, perhaps woman is Sharon Steenberger; b-side: bluegrass instrumental
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Sarah Wiggins - "Pretty Mary," "No More Cane on the Brazos," "Lolly Too Dum," "Shake Sugaree," "Take a Look at Me" [?], "The Coming of the Roads"; Guy Clark - "San Francisco Bay Blues," "Tying a Knot in the Devil's Tail," "Zebra Dung," "One Too Many Mornings," "Tell Old Bill," "Talking Blues," "Frankie and Johnny"; Sarah Wiggins and Guy Clark - "Pack Up Your Sorrows," "Pretty Boy Floyd," "In the Early Morning Rain," "Keep Your Hands Off"; Guy Clark and Sarah Wiggins - "John" [?], "Im Going Back to Where I Come From," "Rambling Boy," Guy Clark - 1st time for concert at the venue and Sarah's second, "Memphis, Tennessee"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Jerry Jeff Walker - "Mountains I Have Known"; Townes Van Zandt - "Big Country Blues," "The Talking KKK Blues"; Jerry Jeff Walker - "Is It Tears or Is It Rain," "Gertrude," "New Orleans Talking Construction Blues," "Cast Off That Shell," "The Ballad of the Hulk," "Speak Now, The Dead Can't Hear You" [?], "Free Bird in a Cage" [?], "Hansel and Gretel," Townes Van Zandt and Jerry Jeff Walker on harmonica - "Tater Pie" (improvisational), "Trouble in Mind," "Cocaine Done Killed My Baby" (improvisational verses)
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Jerry Jeff Walker - "Yesterdays Begin Today" [?], Learning to Play Guitar song, "Is It Tears or Is It Rain," "It's the Same Damn Thing," "New Orleans Talking Construction Blues," "Gertrude," "Cast Off That Shell," "The Ballad of the Hulk," "Ramblin Scramblin," "Gypsy Songman" "Roads of My Mind," "Drifting Way of Life"; Townes Van Zandt - "Big Country Blues," "The Talking KKK Blues," "To My Friend That's Gone Along His Way" [?] - original song, "The Ballad of Ira Hayes," "For All Free Men to Go" [?] - original song, "Laying Down Here Thinking" [?] - original song, "Sixteen Summers, Fifteen Falls," "Cocaine in My Brain," "Badly Mistreated Blues" [?] - original song, "Waiting Around to Die," "Talking Karate Blues," "I'll Be Here in the Morning" - song written for wife that morning lyrics are different; Townes Van Zandt and Jerry Jeff Walker on harmonica - "Trouble in Mind," "This Train Is Bound for Glory"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Performers in order: Bob Gaston, John A. Lomax, Jr., Susan Spaw, John A. Lomax, Jr.
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Guy Clark - "Pride of Petrovar," "You Don't Know"; Frank Davis - "Big Fat Woman," "East Virginia"; Peter Childs - "San Francisco Bay Blues," "Candy Man"; Guy Clark - "Baby Ain't No Lie"; Frank Davis - "Man Who Wouldn't Hoe Corn"; Peter Childs - "Easy Rider"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Contents include: Peter Childs on banjo and Ed Badeaux guitar - "Earl's breakdown"; Ed Badeaux and Peter Childs on dobro - "Jimmy Brown"; Ed Badeaux - "Knot in the Devil's Tail"; Peter Childs - "Battle Ship of Maine," "Risselty-Rossety"; Ed Badeaux - "Guitar Playing Talking Blues"; Peter Childs - "You're Gonna Need Somebody on Your Bond"; Ed Badeaux - "Kitty Clyde"; Instrumental closing
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Peter Childs - instrumental - Travis picking; Carolyn Terry - "Shake Sugaree"; Carolyn Terry and Peter Childs - "Little Maggie"; Guy Clark and Sarah Wiggins recently began working together - "Fair and Tender Ladies," "Johnson Boys"; Peter Childs - "My Name Is Morgan," "Under the Double Eagle"; Carolyn Terry - "Moonshiner"; Peter Childs - "Who's Gonna Shoe," closing
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Instrumental opening; Jim McConnell - "Other Side of Jordan," "Woody Knows Nothing"; Pete Wheeler - "Billy Grimes," "Bonny Lass of Fyvie"; Peter Childs - "Buffalo Skinners," "Talking Dust Bowl"; Jim McConnell - "When God Dips His Love in My Heart"; Pete Wheeler - "In Dublin City"; Peter Childs and Jim McConnell - instrumental closing
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Instrumental opening; Davy Jones - "Brave Bobbie Campbell," "Solid Gone Blues"; Sharon Steenberger - "Venezuela," "The Darby Ram"; Davy Jones - "False Knight Upon the Road"; Sharon Steenberger - "My Love Doesn't Love Me at All"; Davy Jones - "When I Was Young"; Guy Clark - instrumental closing
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Instrumental opening - Knob Lick Upper 10,000; Howie Porper - "Poor Wayfarin' Stranger," "Greensleeves"; Peter Gardner - "Never Go A-Rushin'," "I Gave My Love an Apple"; Howie Porper - "John B.," "Mi Caballo"; Peter Gardner - "Ca' the Yowes," "The Golden Vanity"; instrumental closing
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Instrumental opening; Dick Mitchell - "Railroad Bill," "Stackolee"; Amy Goodenough - "The Grey Cook," "Lucky Joe"; Dick Mitchell - "I'm a Rambler," "How Long Blues"; Amy Goodenough - "Cotton Mill Girls," "Pretty Polly"; Dick Mitchell and others - unclear if part of the show
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Peter Gardner - opening; John A. Lomax, Jr. - remarks, "No More Cane on This Brazos," "Come a Ti Yi Youpee" (2 versions), "Adies Got a Gold Mine," "Weevily Wheat," "Take This Hammer," "Sloop John B.," "Yellow Gal," "Roseanna"; Peter Gardner - closing
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Peter Gardner - opening; Guy Clark - "Tell Old Bill" - Peter Gardner explains that Clark is starting to learn to luthier; Sarah Wiggins - "Golden Apples of the Sun"; Carolyn Terry - "One Grain of Sand"; Mack Wilson and Peter Gardner - "Billy's Land," "Me Wanna Go Home"; Pete Wheeler - "Housewife's Lament"; Gary White - "Yellow Dog Blues"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. The Moonshiners - Instrumental opening, "Banks of the Ohio," "I Wonder How the Old Folks Are at Home," "Rueben James," "Mary Deara," "Old Rattler," "Flower Bloomed in the Wildwood," "Salty Dog Blues," instrumental closing. Musicians: Robbie Shipley, Bill Northcutt, Bill Bailey, Bill Bonner
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Guy Clark - "Early Morning Rain"; Pete Wheeler - "Blantyre Mine Explosion"; Carolyn Terry - "Feeling Good"; Gary White - "Little Margaret"; Peter Childs - "Jones"; Ballet Folklorico: Pedro Munoz, Horatio Bigurra, Fernando Rojas - "Albur de Amor," "Desden," "Adios"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Kathy Rote - "Dear Companion," "Duncan and Brady," "When I Was in My Prime"; Kathy Rote and Sarah Wiggins - "My Home's Across Smokey Mountains"; Sarah Wiggins - "Make a Long time Man Feel Bad"; Frank Davis - "Keep Your Hands Off," "Old Riley," "Jean Harlow"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. John Carrick - "Sand Mountain Blues," "Little Girl of Hiroshima," "Trilogy - Mary Ann, Drifter, Some Wounds to Bind"; Sarah Wiggins - "Black Girl," "Cotton Eyed Joe," "Last Thing on My Mind"; Carl Snyder - "Gilgarra Mountain," "God Bless the Child," "Some Day Soon"; John Carrick - "Black Fly," "Universal Soldier"; Sarah Wiggins and Peter Gardner - "Who's Gonna Shoe"; Sarah Wiggins - "Portland Town"; Carl Snyder - "Good and Drunk and Goozy," "Down in the Mines"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Danny Schacht - "Do Re Me," "She Moves Along Like a Cannonball," "Got My Questionnaire," "Golden Vanity"; Amy Goodenough - "Dewie Dens of Yorrow," "If It Fits Your Fancy," "New Shoes Blues," "I Love My Baby"; David Bayles and Peter Mann - "Cripple Creek," "Ginger Man," David Bayles and Peter Mann with Danny Schacht - "Blues"; Danny Schacht, Gary White, Carolyn Terry - "Run Sinner Run"; Carolyn Terry - "She's Like a Swallow"; Guy Clark - "Every Day Dirt"; pre-recorded performance by Segle Fry - "Salty Dog," "Come All You Fair," "Make Me a Pallet"; Kathy Rote - "Cotton Mill Girls"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. In introduction by Peter Gardner mentions that Guy Clark just finished working on his 12-string. He also plans on opening up the business Clark Harmonies. Bill Palmer - "Bugle Call Rag," "Worried Man Blues," "Reuben," "Spanish Fandango," "Green Corn"; Guy Clark - "Stealin'," "Backwater Blues," "Red Velvet," "New Franking and Johnny"; Bill Palmer - "Freigh Train," "Nobody Knows You," "Nine Pound Hammer"; Jim Womack - By the Side of a Railroad," "Atomic Power," "Walked the Streets," "Crowded"; John A. Lomax, Jr. - "Silver Jack," "Jesse James"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Group sing-along - "It's a Lesson Too Late for the Learning"; Carl Snyder - "Henry"; Robin Rinker - Spanish song, "Pussy Cat, Pussy Cat"; Jeff Giles on a homemade guitar - Blues progression; Gary White - Song with banjo, "Push Boat," "Fi-Li-Mi-Oo-Re-Ay"; Paul Johnson and Amy Goodenough - "Turtledove"; Gary White - "One Grain of Sand"; Amy Goodenough - "Come In, Come In"; Independence Day play
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Jim Gunn and Gary White - "Blood Red Roses," "Lamachree and Meagram," "The Moneymusk Lads," "The Mucking of Geordie's Byre," "The Working Chap"; John Pollock and Tommy Thompson - Blues instrumental, "Autobiographical Blues"; Tommy Thompson - "Trouble in Mind"; John Pollack - "Bleeker Street," "Baby Blue," "Green Rocky Road"; Earl Palmer - Instrumental, "Malaguena"; Roger Abrahams from concert at Jewish Community Center on 1963-11-10 - "Roll on Buddy," "Make Me a Pallet," "Ballad of Georgie," "An Old Man," "One Morning in May"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Scott Holtzman discusses writing songs, "selling" them, writing with Vivian Holtzman on "Maryanne's Magic Castle" and doing a recording for Kay Oslin - "I'm Not Sayin'," Scott Holtzman and Buddy Wigington - "Fair Rosamunds Bower," Scott Holtzman, Buddy Wingington, Robin Rinker - "Early Morning Rain," "Babe I'm Gonna Leave You," "Railroad Wife"; Kathy Rote - "Two LIttle Boys," "Wild Rippling Water"; Frank Davis, Peter Childs, Carolyn Terry, Sarah Wiggins - "Motherless Child"; Sarah Wiggins and Jim McConnell - "Tarry Town"; Jim McConnell and Peter Childs - "Nine Pound Hammer," "Darby Ram," "I Saw the Light," "Somewhere Listening"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Guy Clark and Gary White - "Cripple Creek," "Shady Grove," "Fair and Tender Ladies"; Carolyn Terry - "Silver Dagger," "East Virginia," "Black is the Color"; Tim Reid - "Vandy," "Blue Mountain"; Amy Goodenough - "A Single Life Is / I Wish I Was a Single Girl"; Pete Wheeler - "Trouble on My Mind"; "I Wish I Was a Mole"; Robin Rinker - "Bury Me Beneath the Willow," "Sourwood Mountain"; Gary White and Amy Goodenough - "Willy Moore"; Gary White - "Little Maggie"; Kathy Rote - "Willow Garden," "Old Blue"; Guy Clark - "Devil and Farmer's Wife"; From a recording Pete Seeger - "How Can I Keep from Singing"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Gary White - "Fannin St.," "Winsboro Cotton Mill Blues"; Guy Clark - "San Francisco Bay Blues"; Gary White, Danny Schacht, Guy Clark - "C.C. Rider," "Stealin'"; Danny Schacht - "Betty Dupree," "Questionnaire"; Carolyn Terry - "Blackbird," "Alabama Woman"; Amy Goodenough - "Every Night"; Gary White - "Girl from North Country," "High Flying Bird"; Guy Clark - "Green Rocky Road," "Baby Please Don't Go"; Carolyn Terry - "You've Been a Good Old Wagon," "Blues When You're Lonely"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Gary White - "Home in That Rock," "This Land," "Paul and Silas"; Robin Rinker - "Lollipop Tree"; Jim Gunn - "Hallelujah I'm a Bum"; Kathy Rote - "Very Unfortunate Man"; Robert Gaston - "Bottle of Wine"; Amy Goodenough - "Jug a' Red," "When I First Came to This Land"; What follows is commercially recorded - Pete Seeger - "Guantenamera," "Tshotsholosa"; Judy Collins - "Ramblin' Boy"; Clancy Brothers and Tommy Makem - "Moonshiner," "Whistlin' Gypsy," "My Johnny Lad," "Work of the Weavers," "The Old Orange Flute," "Brennan on the Moor"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Ed Badeaux - "The Drunk Rat," "Blues Chased a Rabbit," "Talking Beginning Guitar Blues," "Pie in the Sky," "Dark as a Dungeon," "Alberta"; What follows is commercially recorded - John Gatenby - two bagpipe selections; Ewan MacColl - "Green Grow the Rashes," "Rothesay-O," "Carlton Weaver"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Carolyn Terry hosts. Frank Davis - "Big Fat Woman," "Jean Harlow"; Kathy Rote - "Duncan and Brady"; Kathy Rote and Carolyn Terry - "Ella Speed"; Guy Clark about to embark on a two month long jr. high school tour, replacing Ed Badeaux who became the editor for Sing Out - "I Got Mine," "Everyday Dirt"; Gary White - "Ace in the Hole," "Red Hot Mama," "Man Without a Woman"; Frank Davis - "Nobody Knows You," "Young Man"; Gary White - "How Come You Do Me"; Sarah Wiggins - "Crowded," "Trouble in Mind"; Guy Clark - "No Room" [? title unclear, no chorus] - 1st recorded original song; Carolyn Terry - "Rag Time Life"; What follows is commercially recorded - Leadbelly - "Salty Dog," "Easy Mr. Tom," "Release Your Mind"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Robert Gaston - "Lady and Cowboy"; Paul Johnson - "Last Thing on My Mind," "Golden Apples"; Carolyn Terry - "Marrowbones," "My Love Loves the Game"; Pete Wheeler - "Six Questions," "Equinonial"; Gary White - "Westerin' Wind," "When I Was Single," "The House Carpenter"; What follows is commercially recorded or recorded live by Gardner at an earlier time - "Frank Davis and Kay Oslin - "Rattlesnake Mountain," "My Girl"; Lynne Taylor - "Ha Ha This Way"; Gene and Francesca - "Meu Limao"; Cynthia Gooding - "Aupres de ma Blonde"; Joan Baez - "Rake and Ramblin' Boy"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Paul Johnson - "Oh My Lady," "Talkin' Atom"; Carolyn Terry - "Peter Emberly," "Henry Martin"; Kathy Rote - "Cruel Mother," "Me and My Uncle"; Paul Johnson - Instrumental "Prelude et Impromptu," "Turn Around"; Examples of pre-recorded performances at the Jewish Community Center - Alex Martin - "T for Texas," "Streets of Laredo"; Gospel Mellowtones - "I Saw a Beautiful Light," "Oh Mighty God"; Flatlanders - Instrumental, "Bile That Cabbage Down"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. John Pollack - "House of the Rising Sun," "Corinna"; Sarah Wiggins - "One Too Many Mornings," "Ain't No More Cane," "John Anderson My Joe"; Carl Snyder - "Fare Thee Wall," "I Never Will Marry"; Bob Gaston - "Last Thing on My Mind," "Deep River Blues"; Gary White - "To Go to Sea Once More," "One Grain of Sand," "Two Little Sailor Boys," "North Country"; Sarah Wiggins - "Joey," "Daily Growing"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Paul Johnson - "Great Silkie"; Louise Ack - "There Is a Lady," "Lowlands of Holland"; Bob Gaston - "East Virginia," "Little Margaret"; Robin Rinker - "The Cruise of hte Bilge Bucket," "Ah Sid"; Gary White - "Lowland Sea," "Dewie Dens of Yarrow"; Sarah Wiggins - "The Moonshiner," "Fair and Tender Ladies"; Peter Gardner - "20, 18, 16, 14," "I Gave My Love and Apple"; Carolyn Terry - "Frankie Slide"; Amy Goodenough - "The Blacksmith," "Yarrow"; Gary White - "Buddy, Won't You Roll Down the Line," "Few Days"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Gary White - "Midnite Special," "Make Me a Pallet," "Reuben James"; Carolyn Terry - "Me and My Uncle," "Hootenanny Granny"; Bob Beck - "One Meat Ball," "Johnson City Blues," "16 Tons"; Rick Kelly - "Fare Thee Well," "Don't Think Twice"; Bob Gaston - "North Country," "I've Been a Rambler"; Gary White - "Lewis Collins," "Black Girl"; Amy Goodenough - "Soul Song"; Paul Johnson - "Green Grow the Lilacs"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. The Moonshiners - Instrumental opening, "Jimmy Brown, The Newsboy," "The Cuckoo Bird," "Banks of the Ohio," "Wildwood Flower," "Nine Pound Hammer," "Salty Dog Blues," "Under the Double Eagle," "Take the Hammer," "Ain't Gonna Rain No More," "Froggy Mountain Breakdown," "Goodbye, Mary Dear," "Reuben James," "The Froggy Mountain Top," "Weeping Willow," "The Cumberland Gap," "I Wonder How the Old Folks Are at Home," "Mountain Dew," "Little Maggie," Instrumental closing. Musicians: Gary White, Robbie Shipley, Bill Bailey, Bill Bonner
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Gary White - "Bullgine Run," "William Morgan," "Hills of Rome County"; Bob Beck - "I Just Lover Her So," "San Francisco Bay Blues"; Minor Wilson - "Old Tom Cat Blues," "Blues Came Back"; Nancy Storm - "Hi Ro Jerum," "Houseman Song"; Carl Snyder - "I'm Going Back"; Minor Wilson - Blues Before Sunrise," "Black Mountain"; Sarah Wiggins - "There's a Hill," "The First Time," "The Cuckoo"; Gary White - "The Engineer's Lament," "Wreck on the Highway," "Empy Pocket Blues"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Bill Northcutt and Gary White - "I Truly Understand," "Old Mother Hare," "Mary Deare"; Susan Spaw - "Old Blue," "Where I'm Bound," "Polly Von"; Paul Johnson and Amy Goodenough - "Rocks and Gravel," "Winken and Blinken and Nod"; Amy Goodenough - "Joe Hill's Epitaph," "Pastures of Plenty"; Paul Johnson - "Amanda Blaine," "Shelby Flint Song," "Crow in the Cradle"; Sara Wiggins - "The Fox," "If I'd a Known," "Black Girl"; Bill Northcutt and Gary White - "Dixie"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Gary White and Sarah Wiggins - "Gonna Miss Me When I'm Gone," "Four Strong Winds," "One Too Many Mornings"; Ken Roberts - "North Country," "Samson," "Strange Fruit," "Don't Think Twice"; Bob Gaston - "Ginger Man," "Panama Limited"; Carolyn Terry - "Song for Canada," "Shake Sugaree"; Gary White - "My Name is Morgan," "Make Me a Pallet"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Jim McConnell - "Stagolee," "Sheep Shearing"; Amy Goodenough - "Scarborough Fair," "Grey Cock"; Jim Gunn - "On Monday Morning," "Brewer Laddie," "Lamachree Megram," "The Moneymusk Lads"; Susan Spaw - "Wake Up This Morning," "Shennandoah"; Gary White - "Bow and Balance," "The Royal Canal," Paul Johnson - "I'm a Drifter," "Coal Town Road"; Amy Goodenough - "Cotton Mill Girls"; Jim McConnell - "Darby Ram"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Gary White - "Everyday Dirt," "Tim Evans"; Kathy Rote - "Red Velvet," "Losin' Blues," "Early in the Spring"; Pete Wheeler - "The Cambric Shirt," "The Three Tailors"; Guy Clark - "One Too Many Mornings," "Frankie and Johnny," "Spider to a Fly," "Early Morning Rain"; Susan Spaw - "John Riley"; Paul Johnson - "Winter Sky"; Guy Clark - "Silver Dagger," "I Got Mine"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Carolyn Terry - "Oh My Darlin' Oh," "Little Maggie"; Don Evans - "Shennandoah," "Wayfarin' Stranger," "Red Rosy Bush"; Bob Gaston - "In the Morning," "Long John Gone"; Robin Rinker - "Marvelous Toy," "All on a Christmas Day"; Dickenson Glee and Mandolin Society - "Will the Circle Be Unbroken," "Tom Dooley," "Amelia Earhart"; Tom Reid - "Fennario"; Townes Van Zandt - "Big Country Blues," "Minneapolis Hotel," "Waitin' around to Die"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Gary White - Instrumental carols, "Virgin Mary Had a Baby," "Poor LIttle Jesus"; Sarah Wiggins - "I Wander as I Wander"; Paul Johnson - "Mary's Boy Child"; Paul Johnson and Amy Goodenough - "All Through the Night"; Ron Hudson - "Ave Maria"; Carolyn Terry - "Cherry Tree Carol"; Susan Spaw - "I Saw Three Ships"; Amy Goodenough - "Birthdays Are Funny Things"; Gary White and Paul Johnson - instrumental, "Soul Cake"; Gary White - "Virgin Mary," "Go Where I Send Thee," "We Wish You a Merry Christmas"; Group - "Twelves Days of Christmas," "Santa Claus is Comin' to Town," "Go Tell It on the Mountain," medley of carols
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: The Moonshiners - "Mountain Dew"; Gary White, Amy Goodenough, Earl, Carolyn Terry - "Haul Away Joe"; Amy Goodenough - "The Blacksmith"; Gary White - "Wild Colonial Boy"; Kathy Rote - "Me and My Uncle"; Jim Gunn and Gary White - "Ranzo the Boys"; Guy Clark - "Tying a Knot on the Devil's Tail," "London Town" aka "Handsom Molly"; Carolyn Terry and Gary White - "The Vanquished Grave"; Carolyn Terry and Gary White - "The Jealous Lover"; Group sing-along - "Weary Bones"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Bob Gaston - "Corinna"; Beverly Wehking - "It Ain't Me," "Melorna's Lullaby," "I Have No Song"; Townes Van Zandt - "Today Was a Time" original, "Trouble in Mind," "To My Friend That's Gone Along His Way" [?] - original song - playing at the Beaumont Halfway House on 01/15-01/16 and 01/22-01/23; Carolyn Terry - "Gilderoy," "Moonshiner"; Carl Snyder - "Harvest Song," "Lord Henry," "Jamaica Farewell"; Jerry Jeff Walker - "Roads of My Mind," "Ramblin', Scramblin'"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Amy Goodenough - "Blues" original, "As I Went Out"; John A. Lomax, Jr. - "Alabama Bound," "Lulu," "Darlin' Corey," "Gal I Left Behind Me," "Roseanna," "Long John," "Chisholm Trail"; Susan Spaw - "Bells of Rhymney"; Bob Gaston - "Colours," "Long John" replaced the Townes Van Zandt songs - "Talking KKK Blues," "It's Been a Year Now"; Paul Johnson - "Heather on the Hill," "Gimme That Wine"; Paul Johnson and Amy Goodenough - "Song
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Lynchburg Ferry Old Time String Band and Patent Medicine Co. - "Amelia Earhart's Last Flight," "Take a Drink on Me," "Lightning Express," "Bill Morgan"; Kathy Rote and Joe Johnson - "When First unto This Country," "The Daughter of Dundee," "Ella Speed"; Pete Troutner - "Hello Central," "Buck Dancer's Choice"; Pete Wheeler - "Invery," "Old Man on the Hill"; Lynchburg Ferry Old Time String Band and Patent Medicine Co. - "Man of Constant Sorrow," "I Truly Understand," "Engineer's Last Ride," "Old Account Was Settled," "Mary of the Wild Moor." Lynchburg Ferry Old Time String Band and Patent Medicine Co. musicians - Gary White, Bill Northcutt, Joe Johnson
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Sarah Wiggins - "Pretty Mary," "Lolly Too Dum"; Guy Clark - "Zebra Dun," "Tyin' a Knot in the Devil's Tail"; Guy Clark and Sarah Wiggins - "Keep Your Hands Off Her," "Early Morning Rain"; Jerry Jeff Walker - "New Orleans Talking Construction Blues"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Thomas H. Heiman - "Life Is a Little Sleep," "I Hide Behind a Name," "Making a Beginning," "There Is One," "Telescope Song," "Space Song for Children," "Sing Me the Moon," "Oh Bird," "I Saw a Funny Thing," "Something Strange," "We're Passing Yonder," "The Night of the Rose," "Make It and Break It," "Let's Get Together and Sing"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Gary White - "Done Laid Around," "Comin' of the Roads," "High Flying Bird"; Townes Van Zandt - "Talkin' Karate Lesson Blues"; Townes Van Zandt and Gary White (harmonica) - "The Suicide Train" original; Townes Van Zandt - "Goodbye to an Old Friend"; Don Sanders - "Travelin' Man," "Bold Turpin," "What Did You Learn in School"; Guy Clark - "Golden Vanity," "Red Velvet," "I Got Mine," "One Too Many Mornings," "Where I'm Bound," "Lesson Too Late for Learning"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Gary White - "East Virginia," "Lady Gay," "Wild Goose Grasses," "Careless Love"; Susan Spaw - "I'm a Ramble," "Fare Thee Well," "Rest You Now"; Amy Goodenough - "Shiloh Town," "The Dove"; Townes Van Zandt - "Cocaine," "Thunderbird," "Just Waitin' around to Die" - wrote with wife and friend at a bar listing off all of the ways to die; Jerry Jeff Walker - "Be What You Want to Be," "It Had to Be," "Candy Man"; Gary White - "Birthday Song"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. The Rumrunners - "Coal Tattoo," "Yesterday," "Early Morning Rain," "She Was Too Good to Me"; Sarah Wiggins - "Baby, Do You Hear Me," "Lonesome"; Frank Davis - "On a Monday," "Sweet Mary," "Rattlesnakes," "I'll Be So Glad," "Won't You Line Them," "Black Betty," "Jean Harlow"; Gary Boggs - "The Girl from Ipanema," "She Doesn't See"; David Boyce - "Scotch and Soda"; Peter Childs - "There By for Fortune," "Keep Your Hands off Her." The Rumrunners - musicians - David Boyce, Gary Boggs, Ray Rogers
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at 716 W. Alabama at Peter Gardner's home. Kathy Rote - "Fennario," "Lord Gregory," "Two Boys"; Don Sanders - "Portland County Jail," "My Rough and Rowdy Ways," "Brazos," "Andorra"; Carolyn Terry - "Shake Sugaree," "Sand Mountain Blues," "There Are Blues"; Pete Wheeler - "Merry Pirates Life," "High Barbary," "The Ninety and Nine"; Amy Goodenough - "New Shoes Blues," "Man Who Goes Away"; Amy Goodenough and Paul Johnson - "Single Girl"; Paul Johnson - "Danny Boy," "Girl from North Country"; Paul Johnson and Amy Goodenough - "Winken and Blinken and Nod"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at the home of Rick and Louise Ack. Paul Johnson and Amy Goodenough - "A Sailor's Life"; Gary White - "Trees They Grow High," "Alberta," "Go to Sea No More"; Paul Johnson - "Bye Bye My Baby"; Amy Goodenough - "Bury Me Not," "I Love My Baby"; Carolyn Terry - "Redwing Blackbird," "The Bold Fimian Man"; Gary White - "Freight Train," "Won't You Go down Hannah," "Run Come See," "Got a Home in That Rock"; Paul Johnson - "Sylvie"; Gary White - "Dark as a Dungeon," "Blowing in the Wind," "This Land"
These digitized audio files consist of one master copy wav, one access copy mp3, and jpg images of the reel, box, and any ephemera. Contents include: Recorded live at the home of Rick and Louise Ack. Susan Spaw - "Can't Help But Wonder," "Come My Love," "Take Me Home with You" original song; Townes Van Zandt with Gary White on harmonica - "Bluebird Blues," "Don't Lie Lonesome," "Lonesome Feeling" [?] original, "Things I Don't Understand" [?] original, "Talking Karate Blues," "I'm Blue" [?] original, "Take My Body Home"; Peter Gardner and Gary White - "The Nightingale"; Peter Gardner - "Empty Pocket Blues"; Carolyn Terry - "Peter Emberly," "Ella Speed"; Gary White - "Mary Don't You Weep"
Two boxes of Houston Hadassah membership directories and three scrapbooks containing newsletters, photographs, newsclippings, postcards, event invitations, and campaign buttons document membership in the organization from 1955 to 1965 and 1993 to 2002, as well as some of the activities members of the Houston Chapter of Hadassah participated in from 1970 to 1976, sans 1974, and 1981-1982. Of particular interest are the contents of the membership directories which include, not only membership information but the history of Hadassah, current projects undertaken in Israel, board members information, a message from the president of Hadassah, and a number of advertisements. Both scrapbooks are informative; however, scrapbook #2 is of particular interest due to the amount of material it contains. It is over 120 pages which include newsletters, news clippings, invitations, postcards, memorabilia, and photographs -- including a photo of Hadassah board members with Mayor Hofheinz when he signed the proclamation for "Hadassah Day" and a group photo of past presidents. The pages have been removed from both scrapbooks and each page has been placed in mylar sleeves to preserve the attached materials. The scrapbooks' original order was maintained. Both scrapbooks have been digitized.
The Leon Nad Family Archive contains one program from San Jacinto High School's Night Class exercises, and photographs of Nad family members, including Leon and his father Irving. The materials are in good condition and range in date from the early 1900s to 1964. Researchers interested in the Nad family's contributions to the Houston Jewish community or the impact Leon had on national tax policy would find the collection interesting, though small and formed mainly of photographs.
The Steven Fenberg Papers include correspondence, documents, newsprint, books, photographs, annual reports, magazines and scrapbooks related to Steven Fenberg and his life in Houston, Texas and the Netherlands; Jesse H. Jones and Houston Endowment; the Fenberg family's impact on the commercial, religious and recreational development of greater Houston; and the Fenberg and Berkowitz family homes in Detroit, Michigan, Brooklyn, New York and Miami Beach, Florida.
All of the materials are in good condition and range in date from 1898 to 2022, with most of the material from 1926 to 2019. The materials in this collection are useful for research about Jesse H. Jones and the Reconstruction Finance Corporation (RFC) during the Great Depression and World War II; greater Houston's commercial, religious, social, environmental and recreational development; nonprofit and religious organizations such as Houston Endowment, AIDS Foundation Houston and Congregation Emanu El; and notable local and national figures. Forms part of the South Texas Jewish Archives.
Contains 5 separate movies:
1-Audrey L.-Winston Blackley-Bobby Mead and Hasey Ieillig (sp for entire name?)
2-Farly Flight
3-West Tex. ranch and School Pictures
4-May Fete = 2 times
5-Ford Trimotor (type of airplane) to La Ward
Correspondence; certificates of military service, public school attendance, marriage, and training; news clippings and part of a newsletter; a conference program; genealogy materials; and photographs of family, friends, and events document the history and activities of members of the Berman family from 1925 to 1989. Of particular interest are the numerous photographs of Dave Berman throughout his life from childhood to middle age, including photos of his activities with the B.I.C. Club.
The Bennet L. "Bill" Blumberg scrapbook collection is made up of two scrapbooks and a hard-backed certificate, the "Dollar 'Bill' Award." The materials are in good condition, and range in date from 1940 to 1974. Researchers interested in the daily family lives of Jewish community members in Houston, or the Blumberg family in particular, would find the small collection insightful.
The Temple Freda collection contains official documents, news clippings and newsletters, photographs, correspondence, interview transcripts, and a brief written history of the temple itself. The materials are in good condition and range in date from 1912 to 2006. Despite its small size, researchers interested in the history of Jewish congregations in Texas, the architectural significance of synagogues, or the Jewish community in Bryan would find this collection enlightening.
The Fisher Family Papers are made up of programs from Rabbi Cohen's 50th anniversary and the dedication ceremony of congregation Beth Jacob, one book about Jewish history in Texas, and correspondence from Henry Cohen to Mrs. Dave Fisher. The materials are in good condition and range in date from 1932-1941. Researchers interested in Rabbi Henry Cohen, congregation Beth Jacob, or the history of Jews in Texas would find this collection insightful.
The Shelby D. Goodman collection is made up of music recordings (one sung by the Beth Job choir, the others belonging to the Israel Music Series sung by George Wagner and accompanied by Mildred Kovach), religious photographs such as a Confirmation group photonegative and a Kallah group photo, architectural materials including two concept sketches with accompanying photographs of two buildings Goodman designed in his lifetime, and a copy of At Home with INYAN. Aside from one badly damaged photograph, the materials are in good condition and are dated from 1949 to 2015. Researchers interested in Jewish Music, Jewish community spaces, and architecture would find this collection insightful.
Comick art posters and booklets, a card, and an exhibit inventory document some materials available at art exhibits in Houston area between 2015 and 2018. Of particular note is the Mexican comic art from the 1970s.
The Robert Levy family papers contain five Purple Quill Publications, documents such as programs, church bulletins, letters, certificates, and invitations, as well as several early editions of the B'nai B'rith Hillel Scribe, a publication no longer in print. Though the materials range in date from 1929 to 1993, the majority of the papers are from earlier dates. Because of their age, some of the materials are delicate and worn, the most vulnerable of which have been placed in mylar sleeves for protection from deterioration. This collection would be useful for researchers interested in the Houston Jewish community, early publications, or the Temple B'nai Israel. The collection does not contain many personal documents relevant to the Levy family, aside from one personal letter.
The Dattle Family papers contain a marriage certificate for Phillip and Bertha Dattle, a photograph of their wedding party, and military records for Phillip's honorable discharge from the United States army. The materials are in good condition, and range in date from 1939 to 1946. Researchers interested in Jewish wedding ceremonies or military records may find this small collection useful.
The Chabad of Houston collection is made up of a calendar, Founders' Dinner commemorative journal, three Gala Benefit Journals, a VHS tape about the history of the Chabad, and two pamphlets about the Jewish Community Center. The materials are in good condition and range in date from 1990 to 2016. Researchers interested in the Houston Jewish Community, religious life and programs, and Jewish educational institutions would find this collection useful.
One box of newsclippings, bulletins, photographs, and a scrapbook documents some of the work and activities Morton and Jean Levy have been involved in within the Houston Jewish community between 1948 and 1997. Of particular interest to researchers are the architectural drawings created by Morton Levy while renovating the Congregation Brith Shalom synagogue in Houston during the 1980's.
Recorded minutes from the Houston Hadassah chapter's Business and Professional committee meetings from 1937 to 1945, a summary of a session at the 26th Annual Convention in 1940, and a newspaper clipping document some of the actions and events undertaken by the Houston Hadassah chapter between 1937 and 1952. Also included are University of Houston yearbooks, San Jacinto High School alumni directories and a graduating class photo, recipes, and a financial document from Houston Hillel. Of particular interest are meeting minutes that record every monthly meeting the chapter's Business and Professional committee held from January of 1937 to May of 1944 and a few meetings in 1945.
The collection consists of materials related to the service of Rush Moody, Jr. on the Federal Power Commission, to which he was appointed for a five-year term in 1971. Included is biographical and financial information prepared to support the nomination. Correspondence during the term is included, as are newsclippings about it. There are also a report and speeches related to the work of the Commission from years following Moody's term.
The collection consists of 21 bound programs from celebratory events of a variety of Filipino-American organizations, spanning the years 2006 to 2016, and 12 books to be cataloged separately.
The collection consists of one printing plate, approximately 3 inches by 12 inches, inscribed "Robert I Cohen: Everybody's Gift Store," depicted wreathed in holly branches, ornaments, and packaged gifts. The plate is in good condition, though worn from use, and dates from the early 1900s. Researchers interested in a tangible connection to Cohen's early business ventures would enjoy this archival object.
The Shirley Wetzel archaeology notes on Nottingham include correspondence, field notes, newsletters, articles, maps, presentation slides, and printed digital images stored on a CD depicting Shirley Wetzel and the research and findings from her project on Nottingham. The materials are in good condition, and range in date from 1968 to 2007. Researchers interested in archaeological research at Rice or the methods used to date and gain insight into archaeological finds would find this collection insightful.
These records include the creative output of the Rice Television and Video Production organization, which comprises student events and original programming. There are a variety of formats including DVDs, VHS, and digital videocassettes.
These files are .wav, .avi, and .mpg on DVD. Disc titles include: "Windsync: First Half"; "Mixed Media"; "CBI Video Awards"; "VODS"; "Supershorts, Life on the Street, Runaway Bride, Small Room, KRM Pickle Shell World"; "Supershorts, Life on the Street, Runaway Bride, Small Room, KRM Pickle Shell World"; "POSADA"; "Battle o' Bands"; "KSDS Dances with Owls"; "President's Study Break"; "Greenscreen Time with Nico"; "Greenscreen: Leebron/Forman Get Rickrolled"
These files are unknown file types. Disc titles include: "Greenscreen Madness"; "Winds in Tights (1/2)"; "Winds in Tights (2/2)"; "Satin Hooks - KTRU Concert"; "Liberty Live"; "ENZO Spokesperson, Kyle Lee Music"; "Must play on DVD player"; "Richard, Luke (1/2)"; "Richard; Luke (2/2)"; "Mr. Plow Live"; "Price"
These files are CD-R and DVD-R. Disc titles include: "Phil Final Movie"; "Run LOLA Run Parody"; "Top O' the Hour Episode 1: A New Hope"; "Ask an Athiest"; "Top Cocktail Live"; "Top Cocktail Live"; "Top Coffee"; "Norman Magic: Homecoming '08"; "Sugar and Spice Live Episode"; "Sugar and Spice Halloween Live"
These files are CD-R and DVD+R. Disc titles include: "The Core (1/2)"; "The Core (2/2)"; "Ninja Episode 1"; "Ninja Preview"; "TOTS Season 1 Episode 3"; "TOTS Season 1 Episode 3"; "MKSAI Season 1 Episode 3"; "Jerry, Final Episdoes Disc 2"; "RTV5 Interview Series - Ping Sun"
These files are DVD+R. Disc titles include: "SA Debates"; "SA Presidential Debates"; "SA Debates"
These files are .mp3 on CD-R. Disc titles include: "Screw Yer Roommate - Episodes 1,2"; "SYR - 2"; "SYR - 3"
These files are unknown disc types. Content includes: "Indie Rock Show" discs from September, 2004.
These files are DVD+R. Disc titles include: "All files"; "All files"; "24 Hour Show (1/4)"; "24 Hour Show (2/4)"; "24 Hour Show - Sabine etc. (3/4)"; "24 Hour Show - Top Cocktail (4/4)"; "24 Hour Show"; "Ryan Berry"; "24 Hour Show"; "24 Hour Show Part 2"
These files are unknown disc types. Content includes: "Rick Rock Show" discs from February through March, 2004.
These files are unknown disc types. Content includes: "Rick Rock Show" discs from March through April, 2004.
These files are DVD+R. Disc titles include: "Montage, Lunch"; "Montage Files, Powerball Files"; "Montage all files"
These files are DVD+R. Contents include: "Backup" discs from August, 2005.
These files are CD-R and DVD+R. Disc titles include: "Diversity Forum Part 1"; "Diversity Forum Part 2"; "The Mathletes Interview"; "Mathletes and Others"; "Same Sex Marriage Advance Forum"; "Lindsay Interview"; "Clean Energy 1"; "Clean Energy 2"
These files are DVD+R. Disc titles include: "CSA 1"; "CSA 2"; "Disc 1"; "Disc 2"; "Part 1"; "Lunar New Year Show"
These files are DVD+R. Content includes: "Baseball Alumni Game"; "Sports Tour" discs from 2004 to 2007.
These files are DVD+R. Content includes: "Sports Tour" discs from January through October, 2008.
These files are of unknown disc type. Content includes: "Spin Cycle" discs from September through October, 2004.
These files are CD-R and DVD-R. Content includes "Spin Cycle" discs from 2005-2010.
These files are DVD-R. Disc titles include: "BSA Soul Night: Preshow"; "Soul Night"; "Soul Night (1/2)"; "Soul Night (2/2)"; "Soul Night (1/2)"; "Soul Night (2/2)"; "Soul Night: Extra Videos"; "Soul Night"
These files are DVD-R. Disc titles include: "Beer Bike Race: ENRON Tape (1/2)"; "Beer Bike Race: ENRON Tape (2/2)"; Beer Debates (2007)";"Beer Debates (2008)"; "Beer Debates (2011)"
These files are CD-R and DVD-R. Disc titles include: "Move-In (1/2)"; "Move-In (2/2)"; "Cheers, Jello, Lovett, Sid (1/2)";"Cheers, Jello, Lovett, Sid (2/2)"; "O-Week"; "Green Screen Madness"; "Leebron's BBQ"
These files are CD-R and DVD-R. Disc titles include: "SOS Disc 1 (1/6)"; "SOS Disc 7 (6/6)"; "SOS Disc 2 (2/6)";"SOS Disc 3 (3/6)"; "SOS Disc 4 (4/6)"; "SOS Disc 5 (5/6)"; "VoD"; "DVCam Tapes: Applesauce, Beinut, Miracle of Birth, Wendy's Challenge, WRC/Baker Freshman Flag"; "Mia Haman Shoutout"
These files are CD-R and DVD-R. Disc titles include: "RBT Disc 2 of 8 (1/2)"; "RBT Disc 7 of 8 (2/2)"; "RBT Track Lists"; "Jessica, Darius, Beyond the Hedges, Beer Bike 2001"; "Thomas, Richard, On Demand, News"; "Scott; Beer Bike Tape 1+3; Don't Delete (1/2)"; "Scott; Beer Bike Tape 1+3; Don't Delete (2/2)"; "Scott, Beer Bike Tape 2, Halloween Hoops, Football"; "Run Phil Run, Katie"; "Fall preview, Drinking with Phil"
These files are CD-R and DVD-R. Content includes: "Wiess Jazz Nite"; "Mr. Will Rice"; "Edgar Odell Lovett College"; "Baker 13"; "Jones College-Hair"; "Mr. Rice"
The Congregation Beth Israel Collection is made up of programs and catalogues, directories, historical documents, memorabilia, books, sermons, and temple bulletins depicting the day-to-day running of one of Houston's largest congregations. The materials are in good condition and range in date from 1854 to 2012. Researchers interested in the Houston Jewish community, particularly the events and goings-on associated with Congregation Beth Israel would find this collection insightful.
Family photos of the Gor, Chow, and Fong families, with 2 pages of biographical information.
This collection which spans 1939 to 2018 includes a 1939-1943 notebook from the Refugee Services Committee which assisted Jews fleeing the Nazi regime in WWII, as well as a variety of photographs of people and events from the Federation's activities in the 1980s. The addendum includes event programs, guides, and one VHS recording.
Handwritten notebook documenting the committee members, meeting minutes, and the activities of different subcommittees, such as the Children's Placement Committee.
Names include: Hilda Aron; Lynne Aronoff; Gilbert Baker; Phil Aronson; Stanford Alexander; Golda Baker; Shmuel Ben-Shmuel; Nancy Beren; Marion H. Bernstein; Dr. Daniel Brener; Sharon Brener; Lorraine Brown; Robert A. Caplan; Seymour Cohen; Paul Colbert; Sergiu Commisiona; Leon Davis; Scott Davis; Bill Dinerstein; Ted Dinerstein; Abe "Honey" Donsky; Helen Dow
Names: Eydie Eisen; Marcia Elefant; Elaine Epstein; Vikki Evans; Harold Falik; Cheryl Falik; Tom Falik; Dr. Bernard Farfel; Theba Feldman; Rabbi Sally Finestone; Dr. Alan Fisherman; Jacqueline Fox; Seth Freedman; Janet Frost; Charlett Frumin; Dr. Marshall Frumin; Mark S. Gardner; Milton Gelman; Gilbert Gertner; Mildred Gertner; Scott Gertner; Shirley Gluckman; Lynn Goldberg; William J. Goldberg; Willy Goldberg; Don Graubart; Noel Graubart; Dr. Steven Greenberg; Mel Gross
Names include: Carol Hoffman (Miriam Mendell); Stanley Horn; Barbara Horwitz; Joseph Hurwitz; Laura Huvard; Siegmund Izakson; Dr. Arnold Kagan; Lisa Kalmin; Ginger Kaplan; irvin Kaplan; Kathy Kaplan; Linda Kashar; Dr. Morton Katz; Col. Albert Kaufman; Ann Kaufman; Stephen Kaufman; Sol Kirschner; Susan Klaiman; Gail Klein; Suzanne Kornblit; Gary Kornblith; Joe Kornfeld; J. Livingston Kosberg; Saranne Kosberg
Names include: Abe Lack; Ruth Lack; Bob Landaver; Sidney Ladin; David I. Lampe; John Landa; Gary Landson; David Lerman; Fred Levine; Milton Levit; Diane Levy; Marcia Levy; Nat Levy; Randy Levy; Paul Lynn
General Assembly Nov. 1987; Super Sunday 1988; United Jewish Campaign 1987-88; Bureau of Jewish Education 1987-88; Community Relations Committee 1987-77; Women's Division 1987-88; Endowment Fund 1987-88
Stages Theater records contain materials related to play production programs and other production materials from 1978-2016, press clippings, annual gala and events records, administrative records, photographs, and circa 200 audio and video recordings in analog formats such as VHS and audio cassette.
Not digitized.
Not captured digitally, duplicate of STAG-0186, in this collection.
Not captured digitally.
Not captured / tape was blank.
Not captured digitally.
Not captured digitally.
Not captured digitally.
Not captured digitally.
Not captured digitally.
These external hard drives were provided by the vendor who digitized the content, Scene Savers. They include avi mezzanine master files and mp4 access files for the video, and wav and mp3 files for the audio. The audio files (both wav and mp3) and the access quality video (mp4) have been preserved in the Woodson's nearline environment as AIP numbers MS740aip_064 through MS740aip_071. All the recordings are described in this finding aid, at the item level, as Series VI.
The collection consists of a range of keepsakes memorializing the lives of Herman and Margarett Root Brown and their family. The oldest in time are the high school senior class yearbook of Herman Brown and a framed loan document bearing his signature. There are many photographs, both formal portraits and small snapshots as well as intermediate size pictures. Among the people featured in addition to Herman, Margarett, and their children are the mother and sisters of Herman and George Brown, the wife and daughters of George, and some business associates. Related to Herman Brown's business achievements are an article published in Fortune Magazine and proclamations from the Texas House of Representatives and Senate honoring him at the time of his death.
Letters from Morris Greenfield to his future wife, Bessie Peters, and a family photograph, which includes three generations of the Greenfield family, document a very small part of the lives of members of the Greenfield family from 1915 to 1918.
Certificates, correspondence, news clippings/newsletters, a photograph, a program, and an interview transcript document the lives of members of the Schlanger family and their involvement in the Houston Jewish Community from 1937-1985. Of particular interest is Daniel Schlanger's City of Houston Normal and High School Diploma from 1919. The collection also contains a sealed copy of the Jewish Herald Voice from 1973.
The Jeanmarie Amend collection is made up of school papers (including notes, essays, exams, and books), news clippings and notes concerning post-graduation options, personal papers such as journals, correspondence, and photographs, and memorabilia including dress patterns, boxes, and a small sewing kit. The materials are in good condition and range in date from 1977 to 1982. Researchers interested in the lives of students at Rice, or the emergence of women into educational and professional fields in the early 1980s would find this collection insightful.
Certificates, correspondence, event materials, memorabilia, news clippings, photographs, scrapbooks, and publications document the lives of members of the Gaber and Kline families and their involvement in the Houston Jewish Community from 1916-2017. Of particular interest are the Gaber Family Haggadah produced in 2017 containing an extensive Gaber/Kline family tree, as well as the "This is Your Life Leo Gaber" scrapbook compiled by Morelle Gaber in 1954.
The collection is made up of documents including birth certificates, membership and business cards, correspondence, and event programs. The collection also contains photographs and scrapbook pages, as well as memorabilia like pins, nametags, keychains, and commemorative pens. The materials are in good condition and range in date from 1913 to 1973. Researchers interested in the extended Yellen family, Jewish members of the armed service, or members of the Houston Jewish community, would find this collection insightful.
Correspondence, photographs, slides, negatives, programs, news clippings, publicity material, VHS tapes, audio cassettes, compact discs, and a poster document some of Janice Rubin's activities as a teacher, musician, and photographer within the Houston Jewish community from 1953 to 2015. Of particular interest is the large amount of photographic material documenting a wide variety of people and activities including, a Brith Shalom student family history project, Jewish musicians and singers, and a rally in support of Soviet Jewry in Washington D.C. Also included is a packet of materials provided to Jewish service members during World War II.
Address books, calendars, camp information materials, publications, and religious school materials document the lives of members of the Rubinsky family and their involvement in the Houston Jewish Community from 1991-2001. The papers especially demonstrate the family's involvement with Camp Young Judaea Texas and the Houston Jewish Community Center.
The Weinstein Family papers contain photographs, news clippings, books, and documents relating to the Weinstein family, and Irving and Lily Weinstein in particular. Irving's years serving in World War II are well-documented by both his membership cards and official correspondence, and the letters that he wrote regularly to Lily during his time overseas. Lily's attendance at San Jacinto High School can be explored through her yearbook from 1934 and reunion programs from 1974 and 1984. The materials (excepting the San Jacinto High school yearbook, which is fragile) are in good condition, and range in date from 1912 to 2012. Researchers interested in Jews serving in World War II, Jewish education, or the Houston Jewish community would find this collection helpful.
Correspondence, event materials, meeting minutes, written histories of the congregation, an oral history with Rabbi Gideon Estes, newsletters, news clippings, speeches, and a directory document some of the events and activities undertaken by members of Congregation Beth Am -- including Sandra Block while she was president of the Congregation -- from 1978 to 2022. Of particular interest are the written histories of the congregation in materials donated by both Sandra Block and the institution.
The Tania Brown Family Papers contain a Texas Southern Region Hadassah photo album, military correspondence, a regiment roster, a membership card to the Rainbow division veterans, two programs, and a photograph of Rachel and Frank Brown. The materials are in good condition, and range in date from 1940 to 1997. Researchers interested in Hadassah or Jews in the armed services during World War II would find this collection helpful.
The collection consists of records, news coverage, and materials from the career of Regents Professor Emeritus Dr. George C. Y. Chiou. It includes a plaque on which is mounted a cover of the Journal of Ocular Pharmacology, Dr. Chiou having been the founding editor. There are also three bound volumes: the second edition of Ophthalmic Toxicology, edited by Dr. Chiou (1999); volume 20 of the Journal of Ocular Pharmacology and Therapeutics (2004); and The Vision of Innovation, The Challenge [sic] Story of New Drug Inventor and Entrepreneur George C. Y. Chiou (written in Chinese)(2015).
The Gus Buck BBG banner is 3' by 4.5' with a backdrop of cream-colored fabric, and a navy border and fringe along the bottom. The center of the banner exhibits a silhouette of a head under the embroidered letters "Gus Buck B.B.G." The bottom is taken up by the slogan "Let Your Dreams be Tossed and Turned... Reality." Dated in 1966, the banner is in good condition.
One box containing personal photographs, a play written about Ben Katz, Beth Yeshurun programs, a VHS recording, and materials about the history of Beth Yeshurun documents some of the activities and interests of the Katz family within the Houston Jewish community from 1939 to 1991. Of particular interest is a video tape titled, "100th Anniversary" of Beth Yeshurun recorded in 1990.
The Colish / Samuels Family Papers contain group photographs of AZA and high schoolers at San Jacinto H.S., a confirmation certificate, memorabilia such as a letterman jacket "L," and a news clipping memorializing the victory of Robert Samuels' J.C.C-based baseball team, "The General," as well as school materials such as a paper about War defense stamps and bonds, a graduation announcement, and photo of Samuels his senior year. The materials are in good condition and date from 1943 to 1951. Researchers interested in Rabbi Bob Samuels, or Jewish youth growing up in Houston during this period would find the collection useful.
The Westheimer/Simon Family papers consist of materials related to Congregations Emanu El, and Beth Israel, such as sermons, programs, obituaries, and church bulletins, as well as more personal family materials like newspaper clippings, correspondence, books, memorabilia, photographs (family members, etc.), membership cards, and legal documents. Many events related to the Westheimer / Simon Family are also recorded in a number of certificates, diplomas, yearbooks, and invitations, and the collection boasts two VHS tapes and two cassette tapes, as well as several scrapbooks / memory books devoted to weddings, births, and deaths in the family. The materials are in good condition, and range in date from 1920 to 2012. To assist in genealogical research and making connections between the many people represented in this collection, the arranger's constructed family tree can be found in the control folder.
The collection is limited to material from the years 2007 through 2018. It consists of explanatory materials intended for prospective students, calendars of departmental events, and programs from shows presented in that time period.
The collection consists of materials from the career at Rice University of Dr. John W. Clark, Jr., professor in both the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and the Department of Bioengineering. He was instrumental in the founding of the latter; thus the collection includes records of the development of its curriculum from 1989 through 1997. The collection also includes records of Dr. Clark's participation in the work of several university committees, specifically Parking, Graduate Student, Admissions, and the Library. In addition there is material prepared for evaluation of courses to determine ABET accreditation in 2005.
The Bapsi Sidhwa papers contain materials related to Bapsi's writing, such as manuscripts, drafts, and contracts and correspondence with the publishers of her several books. Also contained in the collection are Bapsi's essays, articles, reviews, and lecture notes from speaking events. Many of Bapsi's published books, often with personal commentary and notes written in, can also be found in the collection. A large portion of the papers are devoted to the press surrounding Bapsi's work--including reviews, articles, and interviews from America, the United Kingdom, India, and Pakistan. Lastly, a section of the collection contains materials related to Bapsi's family life, including correspondence, newspaper clippings, and photographs.
The materials are in good condition and range in date from 1943 to 2018. Researchers interested in Women's Issues, the Indian Partition, Bapsi's relationships with family, friends, and acquaintances, and particularly the process of writing Bapsi's novels, will find this collection enlightening.
This collection consists of research material created and collected by Mary Ann Pickens about Lynn R. Lowery. It includes notes on interviews and copies of articles written by Lowery.
The Huffington and Allied Families Papers, 1650-1955 contains materials pertaining to direct ancestors and descendants of Phyllis Gough Huffington and Roy M. Huffington as well as oblique family lines. The collection consists largely of printed materials such as correspondence between Mrs. Huffington and other family members interested in genealogy as well as independent research conducted by Mrs. Huffington. Many of the printed materials include censuses, court proceedings, obituaries, and other news clippings to provide evidence of familial relationships. Other materials include maps, photographs of family members, and certificates.
The collection consists of a single letter written by L. Ruth Wells Cahill, describing her journey from her hometown of Shreve, Ohio through Chicago south to Houston by train, and speculation about plans for the incipient "Rice Institute" once she arrived there.
Two boxes containing awards and certificates, event materials, correspondence, photographs, publications, and newsclippings document the lives of the Schepps/Brand family from 1910-1997.
Two boxes consisting of Emanuel (Beaumont) programs, news clippings, photographs, certificates, a remembrance card, marriage contract (Ketubah), and legal documents, such as deeds and wills, document the lives of members of the Loeb family from 1834 to 1995. The family was a part of the late 19th and early 20th centuries Jewish communities in Beaumont, Texas, and New Orleans, Louisiana. These documents show their involvement in real estate, synagogue life, travel, and more.
Materials in this collection reflect the artist and teaching career of Stella Sullivan,
including examples of her work, class notes, correspondence, and more.
Four boxes containing certificates, construction contracts and blueprints, correspondence, school materials, reports, photographs, scrapbooks and memory books, and memorabilia spanning the years 1911 to 2015 document the lives of the Daily / Hart family. Of particular interest is the 1944 Annual Report from Congregation Beth Israel that douments a split in the congregation after Beth Israel announced that people who espoused Zionist ideals were not allowed to be members, which caused members who disagreed with that decision to splinter off and form Congregation Emanu El. Also included in the collection is the complete Beth Israel information packet regarding the "Basic Principles" -- or the exclusion of members with Zionist ideals -- to be voted on by the congregation.
Background files include relevant topics, general cases, social trends, cults, related phenomena, scientific topics relevant to ufology, assembled by Vallee in support of his research over the years. Also contains field notes and press documents about related topics such as cattle mutilations, and face-to-face meetings of NIDS and BAASS, as well as various research proposals. Correspondence includes letters exchanged with Aime Michel, Dr. Hynek, Dr. Guerin, and many leading researchers and investigators, starting in the late 1950s to the mid 2010s. Analysis files are planned for donation in the future, and will include research studies, often field investigations or document research about specific UFO topics.
Photographs, news clippings, school materials, certificates and diploma, programs/booklets, correspondence, speeches, and invitations document part of the lives of members of the Chaskin / Hecht family from 1917-1995. Of particular interest is a booklet from a family reunion that contains a detailed family tree.
This audio recording documents Shabbat services at Congregation Beth Yeshurun in 1956 - Rabbi William Malev, Cantor George Wagner, and Harry Croft's Bar Mitzvah.
One box of administrative materials, articles, event materials, photographs, and promotional materials document some of the work conducted by the Jewish Institute for Medical Research from 1959-2019.
Correspondence; books; event materials, including dance programs and wedding invitations; bulletins; newsletters and news clippings; a photograph; and a VHS cassette document the lives of the Isaacs and Hofeller families and their activities within the Galveston and Houston Jewish communities between 1919 and 2002. Of particular interest is a documentary on the 1900 Galveston storm, which features an interview with 104 year old Lorraine Isaacs Hofeller.
The collection contains class notes used by John Bryant in teaching economics courses at Rice university--at the undergraduate and graduate level--as well as notes, handouts, and worksheets relevant to specific economics topics and classes. The materials are in good condition and range in date from 2013 to 2016 (though Bryant likely used the same materials for even older classes). Researchers interested in teaching at Rice and the economics department would find this collection insightful.
Correspondence, speeches (by Jerry Cohen, Ira Tumpowsky, and Jerry's daughter, Elise Cohen Passy), a news clipping, a photograph, and an invitation document a tiny part of the life of Jerry Cohen, the first president of Congregation Beth Am, from 1973 to 1987.
Photo includes Ira Tumpowsky, Joel Katy, Jerry Cohen, and Arthur Berner.
This collection mainly contains class notes and other related materials from Cal Dean Hill, Jr., Virginia Lee Smith, and their son Howard Hill. There are also two scrapbooks documenting the early life of Cal Dean Hill, Jr.
Contents include: Master tiff and access jpgs contain images related to the lives of Cal Dean Hill, Jr. and Virginia Lee Smith
Contents include: Master tiff and access jpgs contain images related to the life of Howard Hill.
Contents include: Master tiff and access jpgs contain images related to the life of Nicholas Hill.
This collection contains newspaper clippings, reports, and other items related to the LGBTQ community and/or the HIV/AIDS crisis. The newspaper clippings are mainly focused on national coverage, while the reports provide insight into how the local LGBTQ community dealt with the crisis.
These records contain Kinder Institute Advisory Board meeting materials.
This collection contains scanned images of photographs, fliers, posters, as well as
digitized and born digital video.
Items are master tifs and access jpgs.
Items are master tifs and access jpgs.
Items are master tifs and access jpgs.
Items are master tifs and access jpgs.
Items are master tifs and access jpgs.
Items are master tifs and access jpgs.
Items are master tifs and access jpgs.
Items are master tifs and access jpgs.
Items are master tifs and access jpgs.
Items are master tifs and access jpgs.
Items are master tifs and access jpgs.
Items are master tifs and access jpgs.
Items are master tifs and access jpgs.
Items are master tifs and access jpgs.
Items are master tifs and access jpgs.
Items are master tifs and access jpgs.
Items are master tifs and access jpgs.
Items are master tifs and access jpgs.
Items are master tifs and access jpgs.
Items are master tifs and access jpgs.
This digitized video file consists of one master copy mpg and one access copy mp4.
Contents include: Richard Dobson house concert at the Mathews home.
This born digital video file consists of one master copy mp4.
This born digital video file consists of one master copy mp4.
The collection has a majority of photographs, newspaper articles, letters, and portraits. Most of the photographs are of W. Leland Anderson and his family including albums of Julia Anderson Frankels. The other photographs are of W. Leland Anderson's late family from the 1800s - early 1900s. The collection also includes a photo album of Julia Anderson Frankel's husband, Russell M. Frankel. Box 7 has a few class and family photographs with no specified dates.
Administrative records, books, correspondences, news clippings, photographs, and programs document the lives of members of Temple B'nai Israel and their involvement in the Victoria Jewish community starting from its founding in 1872. Of particular interest is the original copy of the Constitution and by-laws of B'nai Israel in 1895, news clippings on famous Victoria Jewish pioneers, and a speech from Godcheaux L. Levi, a descendant of one of the early founders of B'nai Israel, to the Victoria Historical Society. This collection would be useful for researchers interested in the history of the Victorian Jewish community, early and recent publications, and the Temple B'nai Israel.
Flashdrive contains 330 images of gravestones in B'nai Israel cemetery in Victoria, Texas.
The Isabella Gonzalez collection mainly consists of materials collected and created by Gonzalez during her time at Rice University. A large portion of the collection is photographs, contact sheets, and negatives. The collection also contains correspondence and ephemera saved during her time at Rice.
Books, bulletins, correspondence, event materials, financial records, flyers, newspaper clippings, pamphlets, photographs, plaques, programs, scrapbooks, videos, and yearbooks document the formation and history of the United Orthodox Synagogues from 1935 to 2023. Of particular interest are the organization's founding documents, several scrapbooks and photo albums, and videos of the congregation throughout the 1960s and 70s. The materials are largely in good condition and would be of particular interest to researchers interested in Houston Jewish institutions, Adath Emeth, Adath Israel, Beth Jacob, or individuals Rabbi Schwartzmann and Cantor Irving Dean. This collection forms part of the South Texas Jewish Archives.
This collection includes annual reports (2001-2005), deans' strategic plans (2006-2007), external reviews (2008-2013) of the Departments of Political Science, Sociology, Economics, Anthropology, and Psychology, department records (1993-2007), and personnel files (restricted).
The collection consists mainly of programs for which Carl Cunningham wrote commentary. The materials are in good condition, and range in date from 1965 to 2017.
This collection consists of printed scans and photocopies of posters created by Little Bobby Duncan for the Houston music venue, Rockefeller's.
This collection consists of physical and digital material documenting the music career of Danny Everitt. The physical material includes song lyrics, fliers, posters, correspondence, and photographs. The digital material includes digital images and an oral history.
Contents include low quality jpg images of Danny Everitt and his bands.
Contents include: "Dimes' Worth," "Deserted Island Blues," "Rhumba Song (La La La)," "Go!," "Blue Texas Mornin'" - Acme, "Changes," "Half Is Spent Alone," "Love Me for Me," "Did You See Her Face," "Numbered Days," "Truth Lies"
Contents include: WPGU - Emerald City Radio; Writing in Nashville - Live in Jackson
Contents include: "Blue Texas Morning," "Dimes Worth of Answers," "No More," "Deserted Island Blues," "Good Times Buddies"
Contents include: Danny Everitt Band, Shake Russell, Rick Gordon
Contents include: "Barefootin'," "Devil Woman," "What Shall I Do," "Sunset Highway," "Buick 6," "Stars," "It's Over"
Contents include: Theodore's solo set: "Second Cup of Coffee," "Suzanne," "Mornin' Comes," "Best Friend," "Someone Stand Beside You," "Willow Tree," "Old Man," "I Miss Her"
Contents include: Theodores
Contents include: "Stayed Too Long," "Rosalie," "It's Over," "Slipping Away," "Easy Way," "No More"
Contents include: "Cold Wind/Cold Rain," "Here With Me," "My Son," "What Shall I Do," "Spare Me," "When the Stars Come Out," "I Heard a Rumour," "What Was It," "River Song," "From Out of Nowhere," "I Don't Care Anymore," "Lady Million," "One Good Chance," "It's Over Again," "Easy Way," "Sunset Highway," "(Is There) Anymore Gold"
Contents include: "Morning Always Comes," "No More," "Hands on the Wheel," "Fire Down Inside," "What Was It," "One Good Chance," "It's Over Again," "Easy Way," "Stars," "Lady Million," "I Heard a Rumor," "Cold Wind/Cold Rain," "Stayed Too Long," "Rosalie," "Sunset Highway," "Slipping Away"
Contents include: "Cold Wind/Cold Rain," "Lady Million," "No More," "I Heard a Rumour," "When the Stars Come Out," "Closer to You"
Contents include: "Closer to You," "Lady Million," "Before You Accuse Me," "I Heard a Rumor," "Take Me to the River," "Fire Down Inside," "Hands on the Wheel," "Susan," "Morning Always Comes," "On Pretty Woman"
Contents include: "Two More Lovers," "One Step Ahead," "Can't Wait," "It Feels Good to Me," "One Step Ahead," "Can't Wait"
Contents include: "Can't Wait," "Love Is for All Times," "How Do We Get By"
Contents include: "Can't Wait," "Love Is for All Times," "How Do We Get By"
Contents include: "I Trusted You," "You're the One," "Bossa Nova Bar-B-Q," "Don't Shoot," "One Step Ahead"
Contents include: "When the Stars Come Out," "We Can't Stop Now," "Almost Perfect"
Contents include: "When the Stars Come Out," "We Can't Stop Now," "Almost Perfect," "What Was It"
Contents include: "A Long Time Ago," "Easing Back," "Old Man in the Pier," "Lay Eyes on You Again"
Contents include: "Stayed Too Long" - Jubilee Studio, "Rosalie," "It's Over," "Slipping Away," "Easy Way," "No More"
Contents include: "My Son," "What Shall I Do," "River Song," "I Heard a Rumour," "I Don't Care Anymore," Ballad of the Snow Leopard," "Nuke the Whales," "
Contents include: "Dimes Worth of Answers," "No More," "Good Time Buddies," "Listen to the Singer"
Contents include: work tape, "When She Finally Takes You There"
Contents include: "What Was It," "Almost Perfect," "I Heard a Rumor," "Hands on the Wheel," "Stayed Too Long," "Fire Down Inside," "Morning Always Come"
Contents include: "Love Is for All Times"
Contents include: "Blue Texas Morning"
Contents include: Side A: "Blue Texas Morning," "Dimes Worth of Answers," "Is There Anymore Gold," "Good Times Buddies," "Undo What I Did," "Stayed Too Long," "Rosalie," "Nothing Better," "Slipping Away," "Lady Million"; Side B: "Fire Down Inside," "Morning Comes," "Hands on the Wheel," "Bossa Nova Bar-B-Q," "Can't Wait," "Two More Lovers," "Precious Knight," "I Trusted You," "Lady Blue," "Love Is For All Times"
Contents include: "Love Is for All Time," "Dimes' Worth," "Bossa Nova Bar-B-Q," "Can't Wait," "Two More Lovers," "Lady Blue," "Hands on the Wheel," "Don't Take Your Love from Me," "Almost Perfect"
Contents include: "Blue Texas Morning," "Dimes Worth of Answers," "Is There Anymore Gold," "Good Time Buddies," "Undo What I Did," "Stayed Too Long," "Rosalie," "Nothing Better," "Slipping Away," "Lady Million," "Fire Down Inside," "Morning Comes," "Hands on the Wheel," "Bossa Nova Bar-B-Q," "Can't Wait," "Two More Lovers," "Precious Knight," "I Trusted You," "Lady Blue," "Love Is for All Times"
Contents include: "Rosalie," "When She Finally Takes You There," "Morning Comes," "Hands on the Wheel," "Listen to the Singer," "Summer Apart," "The Shape You're In," "No More," "Old Man in the Pier," "Undo What I Did," "Slipping Away," "It's Over," "Easy Way"
Contents include: "Can't Wait," "Love Is for All Times," "How Do We Get By," "Thieves"
Contents include: "Gotta Get Back to You," "I Don't Care Anymore," "Maybe in the Morning," "Daydreams," "Can't Wait," "Love Is for All Times," "How Do We Get By," "I Heard a Rumor," "When The Stars Come Out," "Nothin' Better," "Closer to You"
Contents include: "Red Young," "Daydream," "Doran," "I Wrote that Song," KRNN interview S.G.S.A.
Contents include: "Can't Wait," "One Step Ahead"
Contents include: "One Step Ahead," "Meltdown," "Can't Wait," "Love Is for All Times"
Contents include: master wav files and access mp3 files.
Contents include: master wav files and access mp3 files.
Contents include: master wav files and access mp3 files. Tracks include: "Sunset Highway," "Old Man on the Pier," "When the Stars Come Out," "Dimes Worth," "What Was It," "I've Got Nothing," "Devil Woman," "Nothing But Everything," "The Ballad of Aubrey Call," "We Can't Stop Now."
These born digital video files consist of one master copy mov and one access copy located at scholarship.rice.edu.
Contents include: Live at Waco Hall: "Yonder Comes the Blues," "You Don't Have to Go," "So Different Blues," "Memories of You"; Live at Lone Star Bar: "Lover's Prayer," "Winnie the Wailer," "Chicken Fried Steak," "West TX Highway," "Deep in the West," "Cake Walk," "Make Your Move," "Try, "Oh Baby," "Country Girl," "Gypsy Songman," "Tomorrow Is a Long Time," "Friend to Me Too," Guest Singer, "Georgia"
Contents include: "Anymore Gold," "No More," "It's Over," "What Shall I Do," "I Don't Care Anymore," "River Song," "Snow Leopard"
This collection contains Dogtooth Violet-related posters, documents, and audio.
Collection of 10 16mm films, 1 Super 8mm film, 1 audio reel.
Contains 16 mm film footage of Zevi Salsburg and wife on vacation in mountains, around Los Alamos, New Mexico, Summer 1959. Length of film 11:44 minutes.
Contains 16 mm film footage of Zevi Salsburg, family, children. Length of film 06:01 minutes.
Contains 16 mm film footage of Zevi Salsburg and his wife on train trip, views of mountain, Shalona Lake, Colorado and New Mexico in 1959. Length of film 11:34 minutes.
Contains 16 mm film footage of Zevi Salsburg visiting Yosemite, Rice campus, Europe in 1957. Length of film 07:39 minutes.
Contains 16 mm film footage of Labor Day activities and U.S. travel in 1958. Length of film 07:45 minutes.
16 mm film footage of Zevi Salsburg and Rosselini interview. Contains audio. Length of film 06:50 minutes.
Contains Super 8 film footage of two boys running on a track. Length of film 10:48 minutes.
16 mm film footage of Zevi Salsburg and family, Easter egg hunt at Rice University, beach, family gatherings. Length of film 16:12 minutes.
Contains 16 mm film footage of vacation to Yosemite. Length of film 09:41 minutes.
16 mm film footage of Zevi Salsburg wedding shower, wedding, and reception. Length of film 12:59 minutes.
Contains 16 mm film footage of Salsburg family and trip to Memphis in 1961. Length of film is 14:01 minutes.
KTRU news special, Dr. Salsburg, member of Faculty, selected to go before Board of Governors on Friday, April 10, with resolution passed by special faculty meeting. Interviewed live by Pat Baum. Length of audio 15:10 minutes.
The collection consists of the scans of Mr. Hong's scrapbook, which primarily includes photos of community events of the American-Chinese Post No. 596 of the American Legion, based in Houston, Texas. Events include a seminar on Veterans Administration benefits (pages 1-6), dinners held in honor of Veterans Administration staff, including Mr. Tucker, VA Manager (pg. 7, and pg 14), Veterans Parade Houston, in 1970s (pg. 8); Rainbow Meeting at Chinese Baptist Church, honoring Chinese veterans, with banner at stage (pg. 24-29, including Lewis Yee, Joe Gor, the father of Jeannie Go, and J.D. Hong); group travel to Washington DC to receive an honor from Judge Robert Echols in 2004 (pg. 31, photo includes Esther Quan). Additional events include City of Houston Proclamation honoring Post. No. 596 (pg. 82), event honoring the Flying Tigers (pg. 91-93, includes Carolyn Farb, Lewis Yee, and Tex Hill, the leader of the Flying Tigers), an Asian American Pacific Islander Heritage Celebration (pg. 101), and more. Hong's retirement from Delta Airlines is pictured on pg. 107. Among those pictured in the scrapbook are J.D. Hong, Hong's son Kevin Hong (see pg 68), Gordon Quan, Esther Quan, Lewis Yee, George Gee, Joe Gor (father of Edmond Gor), and others. Additionally, photos at the end of the scrapbook document Hong's military life, at the Clark AFB (APO 74) in the Philippines, with the first Air Explorer Scouts Squad in Mississippi (1956), with whom Hong was first to receive the Silver Award (similar to the Eagle Scout award in Boy Scouts). An additional photo features Hong at Greenville AFB Mississippi, with Capt. Bill Seufert (pilot of T33s, flight trainer), Mr. Paul, and Charles Hutchinson. This team served in the Ground Observer Corps, covering areas radar couldn't see, and spotting airplanes and tornadoes. 
Throughout Mark Kulstad's philosophical career he has focused on publications, conferences, talks, and his teaching. The collection as a whole displays his cohesive contributions to the academic community at both Rice University and The University of Michigan. His research on Leibniz, Spinoza, and Descartes is displayed throughout the entirety of the collection, and gives a deeper look into his endeavors in the scholarship of Leibniz. The collection contains extensive information on Kulstad's involvement in the Leibniz Essay Competition, the Leibniz society and its related conferences, and on his publications on the subject. The collection also has some highlights of photos and his hand written drafts of his research papers. There is also an extensive amount of information about his time at The University of Michigan as a graduate student. The first series of the collection highlights his course notes as well as his academic papers, his search for jobs, and his route to becoming a full professor with tenure. There is also a look into his thesis preparation and is accompanied by his finished thesis. The next section focuses on his involvement at Rice University. Kulstad was very involved at Rice and the collection emphasizes his time as a faculty associate at Hanszen College, his involvement as a graduate admissions advisor, and as a graduate seminar teacher.
In Series I Biographical: The series showcases a well rounded representation of Kulstad's course work from his Graduate studies at The University of Michigan. This series includes: class notes, course notebooks, course papers, and his thesis and the accompanying drafts.
In Series II Professional Development: The series includes his involvement with committees, as well as the societies and workshops he worked hard to support. There is also an accurate representation of the conferences he attended as well as the lectures he gave.
In Series III Graduate Seminars and Admissions: The series highlights the Graduate Seminars Kulstad conducted. There is also coverage of his time as part of the Graduate admissions committee.
In Series IV Course Material: This series highlights the classes that Kulstad taught at Rice. The information included includes course outlines, course readings, and course examinations requirements. There is also information about the classes that Kulstad audited.
In Series V Research: This series emphasizes Kulstad's research on Spinoza and Leibniz. This section includes readings on these topics as well as comments, information about the grants he applied for and the materials he requested for his research. There is also information about the publishers he was involved with.
Series VI Publications: This series focuses on his drafts and publications. Noteworthy publications are Leibniz, animals, and Apperception, as well as Leibniz's Conception of Expression.
This collection documents not only the early years of the Rice Institute, but also the years the institute was in the planning stages and William Marsh Rice's involvement. The assets of the institute are also detailed.
Digitized as wrc15497
Digitized as wrc15498
Digitized as wrc15496
Digitized as wrc15495
The collection contains teaching and class-related materials such as syllabi, lecture notes, course papers written by students, student evaluations of classes taught, and letters of recommendation for students. There are also materials pertaining to Rice University affairs, such as faculty records, papers about admissions and financial aid, president speeches, and texts and diary entries commenting on the Masterson Crisis. Also contained within the collection are writings by Alan Grob in the form of speeches, articles, and manuscripts for books he wrote, as well as personal items including correspondence, photographs, newsprint about his life, and awards he received. There are also a number of floppy disks containing backups of Alan Grob's computer disk and manuscripts for his book "Wordsworth and his Adversaries: A Study in the Hermeneutics of Disparagement."
The materials are in good condition and range in date from 1961 to 2007. Researchers interested in classes at Rice (particularly English Literature with a focus on Shakespeare, Victorian and Romantic writers, and Wordsworth), social and political shifts in the climate at Rice University, and the life and achievements of Alan Grob would find this collection helpful.
This collection contains slides that showcase Rice Institute buildings, events, and student life.
Contains slides of a homecoming bonfire, exteriors and interiors of campus buildings, Rondelet, commencement, an electron beam melter, Rice's 50th anniversary, student elections, and construction of campus buildings.
This collection consists of audio by Kathy Rote and an oral history with her.
Contents include: master wav and access mp3 of the songs: "Cowboy at Heart," "Nite Blues," "Rivers of Texas"
Contents include: master wav and access mp3.
One folder containing a Congregation Beth Jacob new building dedication book and a 40th anniversary book document some of the history of the congregation from 1963 to 1971.
The collection contains documentation of the Livres d'artistes books acquired for the Fondren Library; information on the artists who created the books; administrative records; and information on presentations/class instruction made about the collection.
Single broadside calling for a meeting at the YMCA at 52nd Street and Sansom Street by the West Philadelphia Committee to free Angela Davis and all political prisoners.
This collection contains photographs, ephemera, an obituary, and a digitized photogram. The photographs chronicle life around the campus including slime parades and football games.
Contains: photographs of slime initiations aka freshmen hazing, football games, students hanging out, the Rice Engineering Show, and Rice Institute buildings; ephemera includes two tickets to Collegiate Night at the Rice Hotel and The Lone Star Press business card; Eugene Mack Friedl's funeral program.
Contents include: Master tiff and access jpgs contain images related to the life of Eugene Mack Friedl.
This collection contains two video oral histories and one audio oral history. Anna Ta conducted the oral histories.
Contents include: one mov oral history master.
Contents include: one mov oral history master.
Contents include: wav and mp3 of oral history.
Physics course evaluations, grant funded research applications, experiment notes, related to the T.W. Bonner Lab at Rice University.
This collection mainly consists of the research materials for the "History of Biosciences" written by Kathleen Matthews. It also includes a draft of the History of Biosciences.
This collection includes 32 sleeves of 4" x 5" black and white photographic negatives of buildings and interiors of the Rice University campus taken in the 1960's.
News clippings, photographs, a graduation program and invitation, a senior banquet program, an acceptance letter, and a summary of student expenses document some of Hannah's time at Rice Institute from 1936 to 1938.
Photographs from the "Little Buildings Series," photographs from the "Italian Series," atlas of Italy with the routes Samuels took highlighted in yellow, his notes on the Little Buildings photographs, articles, Tony Cronin's draft essays, catalog from The Anthony G. Cronin Memorial Collection at MFAH, and a flashdrive with enhanced images of all photographs.
Photographs of buildings taken by Danny Samuels across the southern United States in 1976-1979. "A study of the morphology of storefronts."
Photographs of historic works of architecture in color in their contemporary contexts in Italy.
Color photograph prints (approximately 120) of gala events during Judge Ingversen's presidency of the Asian American Heritage Association from 1993 - 1994. The events are identified, but individual photographs are not.
The Eufemia Chua Philippine Nurses Association of Metropolitan Houston Collection contains programs, newsletters, and clippings. The programs contain the schedule of events for various PNAMH events. The newsletter contains various articles relating to PNAMH members. Details of meetings and events are listed in the clippings.
The Skylander Newsletter Collection consists of the Skylander Newsletters created by Editor Don Bell for the members of the Ellington Field Air Force Base's 3605th Armament and Electronics Maintenance Squadron and a biographical note. The collection is a complete run from 1999 to 2016. The newsletter contains updates on the squadron members and their lives, historical articles about events that occurred during the members' time at Ellington, general memories, pictures, reunion information, and obituaries.
An oral history, photographs, news clippings, memorabillia, financial documents, and event programs from Star Furniture, a Texas furniture retailer which began as a small, family-owned Jewish business in 1912. Many materials are dedicated to Star Furniture staff life and social events. This collection has a number of annual financial documents for the years 1925-1932. Of particular interest is an official, signed copy of the inaugural prayer for President Lyndon B. Johnson given by Rabbi Hyman J. Schachtel on January 20, 1965.
This collection contains a broadside distributed across the Republic of Mexico by the Mexican Congress in 1837, decreeing the abolition without exception of all slavery in all of the Republic.
Print materials such as event flyers and programs, genealogies, and circa 20 photographs, primarily regarding the activities of the Gee Family Association in Houston, Texas.
Records of Jack Rowland's military service in the Works Progress Administration, including formats such as newsclippings, correspondence, 1943 WPA Final Report in Texas, war ration card and other identification and induction cards.
This collection consists of the audio research interviews, notes, correspondence, and manuscript for the book, "Looks Like Rain: The Songwriting Legacy of Mickey Newbury" by Brian T. Atkinson.
This collection consists of four boxes containing documents, books, media, and photographs documenting college history, student productions, and events that include: CDs, DVDs, VHS tapes, audio cassettes, magazines, directories, Wiess RA correspondence, WTT records A/V specs Wiess table top lightboard, Weiss history, map, as well as materials documenting events at Hanszen, Sid Rich, Jones, and Lovett colleges from 1979 to 2008.
This collection contains mainly letters written by Manuel Paredes to Carmen Amado, who became his wife. There are also photographs and scrapbooks of his oil exploration in Peruvian Amazonia.
This collection mainly consists of fliers, 88 issues of Public News, and concert recordings on CD.
Tracks include: "Twist and Shout", "She's a Woman", "I Feel Fine", "Dizzy Miss Lizzie", "Ticket to Ride", "Everybody's Tring to Be My Baby", "Can't Buy Me Love", "Baby's in Black", "I Wanna Be Your Man", "A Hard Day's Night", "Help!", "I'm Down", "Levitation", "Rollercoaster", "Fire Engine", "Reverberation", "Don't Fall Down", "Tried to Hide", "Splash 1", "You're Gonna Miss Me", "Monkey Island Kingdom of Heaven", "She Lives in a Time of Her Own".
Tracks include: "Coretta", "Just Lookin' For You", "Jokes", "Pancho and Lefty", "Gone, Gone, Blues", "I Ain't Leaving Your Love", "Snowin' on Raton", "Racing in the Streets", "The Catfish Song", "Brand New Companion", "If I Needed You", "La-La-La-Lee, Please Lend Me Your Hand", "The Dollar Bill Blues", "Rex's Blues", "Buckskin Stallion Blues", "Who Do You Love", "The Pueblo Wlatz", "Short-Haired Woman Blues", "You Win Again", "Waitin' Around to Die", "A Lover of Women", "Go Down, Darling", "Maria", "White Firefighter Blues"
Tracks include: "See, See Rider", "I Got a Woman", "Love Me", "Trying to Get to You", "All Shook Up", "Love Me Tender", "Johnny B. Goode", "Hound Dog", "Fever", "Polksalad Annie", "Why Me, Lord?", "Suspicious Minds", "I Can't Stop Loving You", "Help Me", "How Great Thou Art", "Let Me Be There", "Funny How Time Slips Away", "Can't Help Falling in Love"
Tracks include: "Loretta", "Gone, Gone Blues", "I Ain't Leaving Your Love", "Talking Thunderbird Blues", "Pancho and Lefty", "Snowin' on Raton", "The Last Thing on My Mind", "If I Needed You"
Tracks include: "Pancho and Lefty", "Just Lookin' for You", "Gone, Gone Blues", "I Ain't Leaving Your Love", "Racing in the Streets", "If I Needed You", "Interview", "Racing in the Streets", "Interview", "If I Needed You", "Slowin' on Raton", "Interview", "Girl Scout Cookies", "Interview", "Oval Room"
Tracks include: "Only the Lonely", "Leah", "Dream Baby", "In Dreams", "Mean Woman Blues", "Blue Bayou", "Candyman", "Crying", "Oobydooby", "Go, Go, Go", "It's Over", "Pretty Woman", "Running Scared", "Man on a Window Ledge", "Joey (Mechanical Boy)", "Mental Obsession", "Lava of Love", "Washarama", "Get It On Out", "Right Down the Line", "My Imagination", "Dogs", "She's Got the Beat", "Guyana Punch", "Underwater Fun"
Tracks include: "Be-Bop-A-Lula Opening Jam", "C'mon (Pt. III)", "Mary Had A Little Lamb", "Rude Mood", "Dirty Pool", "Voodoo Child", "Heartfixin' Business", "Driving South", "Texas Flood", "Testify", "Jam #292", "Lenny (End Cut)", "In the Open", "Sugar Coated Love", "I Tried, Pretty Baby", "Collin's Shuffle", "You Can Have My Husband", "My Baby's Gone", "Good Rockin' Tonight", "Baby, Let's Play House", "Blue Moon of Kentucky", "I've Got a Woman", "That's Alright, Mama"
Tracks include: "Boilermaker", "Close to You", "You'll Be Mine", "You Done Lost Your Good Thing Down", "Empty Arms", "Breakdown", "Poison", "Texas Flood", "Rude Mood", "Don't Lose Your Cool", "Hideaway", "Pride in Joy", "Tin Pan Alley", "Letter to My Girlfriend", "Tell Me, Darling", "I Tried, Pretty Baby", "Rude Mood", " Tin Pan Alley", "Close to You", "Breakdown", "Manic Depression", "Don't Lose Your Cool", "The Wham!"
Tracks include: "The Song Remains the Same", "Sick Again", "Nobody's Fault but Mine", "In My Time of Dying", "Since I've Been Loving You", "No Quarter", "Ten Years Gone", "The Battle of Evermore", "Going to California", "Black Country Woman", "Bron-Y-Aur Stomp", "White Summer- Black Mountainside", "Kashmir"
Tracks include: "Out on the Tiles- Moby Dick", "Guitar Solo", "Achille's Last Stand", "Stairway to Heaven", "Rock and Roll", "Trampled Underfoot"
Tracks include: "Hotel California", "Lyin' Eyes", "Wasted Time", "Take it Out to the Limit", "Desperado", "Mignight Flyer", "Turn to Stone", "Already Gone", "One of these Nights", "Funk #49", "Good Day in Hell", "Rocky Mountain Way", "Witchy Woman", "James Dean", "The Best of My Love", "Walkaway", "Tequila Sunrise", "All Down the Line", "Honky Tonk Women"' "Star, Star", "Lies", "Beast of Burden", "Respectable", "Sweet Little Sixteen", "Brown Sugar", "Jumping Jack Flash"
This collection contains Rice-related correspondence to Anne Marie Smith, photographs, ephemera, and a digitized poster. Letters in the collection discuss integration at Rice University.
The collection contains 4 t-shirts with the logo of the organization. We expect more deposits from the organization.
Correspondence recommending and rejecting David Barg for Officer Candidate School and some military records, including separation paperwork, document some of Captain Barg's time in the U.S. military between 1936 and 1946.
This collection contains copies of correspondence, legislation, and proceedings pertaining to Dr. Chan's acquisition of permanent residency and citizenship in the U.S.; clippings of news articles covering Dr. Chan's research in diabetes and heart disease, as well as copies of miscellaneous honors and Chinese language documents; a copy of the program for the University of Hong Kong ceremony granting Dr. Chan his honorary degree, along with pertinent documents; and two volumes compiling papers co-authored by Dr. Chan from a variety of publications.
This collection includes sources which document Gee restaurants and/or events, the family of Jane and Albert Gee, and activities of the Chinese American Citizens Alliance (Houston Chapter). Formats include photos (circa 75), letters, plaques, awards, certificates, newspaper clippings, magazine clippings, brochures, pamphlets.
Including Albert Gee, Jane Gee, Linda Gee, Janita Gee, Hong Kong Chef (Bellaire restaurant), Hugh O'Bryan, Connie Chung, Kim sisters (Korean musical act), Gordon McRae, Jack Chow, and others unidentified.
This collection is made up of two boxes containing correspondence, media, event materials, directories, and memorabilia that document part of Rabbi Jimmy Kessler's life from 1943 to 2019. This collection forms part of the South Texas Jewish Archives.
This collection contains audio, photographs, posters, and other materials related to the music career of Jimmy Don Smith.
Notable posters include: Willie Dixon and the Chicago All-Stars, ZZ Top, Bloontz All-Star Band at Liberty Hall - 1971-05-06 - 1971-05-09 Muddy Waters, The Cold Cuts at Tipitina's, 1981-09-20 Junkin Bone with Bloontz All-Star Band at Liberty Hall, 1971
Notable posters include: The Lonnie Brooks Band, ca. 1980 - signed Freddie King and Storm at Liberty Hall, 1971-08-27 - 1971-08-28 Clifton Chenier at Fitzgerald's, 1983-09-30 - signed Townes Van Zandt at Fitzgerald's, 1980-09-12 - 1980-09-13 - signed Albert King at Fitzgerald's, 1982-11-18 - signed B. B. King at Rockefeller's, 1985-02-13 - 1985-02-16 - signed
Texas Jewish Historical Society Newsletters, membership directories, and a brochure document some events and activities undertaken by the Texas Jewish Historical Society from 1999 to present.
Forms part of the Houston Jewish History Archive.
News clippings, correspondence, and event materials document some of the history of the Levy / Lipper / Cohn families from 1922 to 1961.
One box of news clippings, membership cards, photographs, and biographical information documents the lives of Martin and Naomi Warren from 1952-2010. Of particular interest is Naomi Warren's testimony about her life, including as a prisoner at Auschwitz-Birkenau and Bergen-Belsen.
One folder of essays on Texas Jewry, a recording of Rabbi Stahl's ordination, and an oral history documents part of the life of Rabbi Samuel Stahl from 1967 to 2021.
Two boxes containing news clippings, newsletters, programs, photographs, scrapbooks, video tapes, and yearbooks document the history of Congregation K'nesseth Israel in Baytown, Texas, from 1931-2019.
One box of administrative records, event materials, newsletters and news clippings, correspondence, and media document some activities undertaken by members of the Jewish Community Center from 1936 to 2021.
This collection includes memorabilia, photographs, crystal awards, correspondence, newsclippings, and other publications.
One box of programs, event materials, and family history materials, including a digitized memoir and news clippings, document the Butler family between 1924 to 1987.
Three boxes of adminstrative and event materials, newsletters and news clippings, and general organizational materials document some of the activities of the National Council of Jewish Women - Greater Houston Section from 1989 to 2018.
One box of photographs used in the Houston Post and/or taken by Post photographers document activities within the Houston Jewish community between the 1950s and 1990s.
Three boxes of photographs, programs, flyers, correspondence, service packets, t-shirts, and newspaper clippings from Congregation Emanu El, Interfaith Charities, the Jewish-Herald Voice, West Houston B'nai B'rith, JCC West Houston, Greene Family Camp, and NFTY document some activities members of the Hertz family were involved in from 1966-2011.
One box containing a Jewish Herald Voice Rosh Hashanah magazine, a B'nai B'rith reflections book, a Pleasantville brochure, a photo of Beth Jacob/Turnberry Circle, and Joske's and Weingarten employee pins documents some activities that Terri Bamberger was involved in from 1951 to 2001. This collection forms part of the South Texas Jewish Archives.
One box containing news clippings, certificates, photographs, media, and San Jacinto High School and University of Texas materials, including an El Oroso signed by Walter Cronkite, documents the lives of some of the Schuleman family from 1911 to 2018, with the bulk of the materials spanning the 1930s to 1980s.

