Collection consists of a photograph album and other materials related to Mildred Scobee Reeher, a 1919 graduate of Pacific University, and the Reeher family.
The United States Navy employed combat photographers throughout the Second World War to document the actions of the military. This collection contains approximately 80 of these black and white glossy photographs from the Pacific front, showing such events as the bombing of Pearl Harbor and the surrender of the Japanese on the USS Missouri.
Josephine Clare Harriman was a student in the Conservatory of Music at Pacific University in Oregon from about 1902-1903. The collection consists of three small photograph albums featuring her friends and interests.
Willie and Truman Teeter were a married pair of staff and faculty members at Pacific University, where they worked for many years. This collection consists of photographs, awards, yearbooks, publications and memorabilia that they collected through their connections to Pacific.
The collection consists of records of the Willamette Baptist Young Peoples' Association from 1907-1917, mostly minutes contained within a handwritten record book, accompanied by some loose documents.
This collection is chiefly comprised of instructional manuals for radio and television production written by Fred Scheller, was a Professor of Communications and the Director of Media Services at Pacific University in the 1970s.
Scott Hall, formerly called the Harvey Scott Library, opened on the Pacific University campus in Forest Grove, Oregon in 1967. This small collection of material created on campus that year was in a time capsule that was opened 50 years later.
This collection consists of student registration records from Pacific University and its associated high school, Tualatin Academy. The records are in two log books dating from 1877-1883 and 1891-1912.
The students at Pacific University and Tualatin Academy, which was one of the earliest institutions of higher education in Oregon, created many literary magazines in the 1850s and 1860s. This collection contains many examples of such handwritten serial publications authored and edited by these students.
Collection contains the records of the Willamette Association of Congregational Ministers and Churches and also the West Willamette Association of Congregational Ministers and Churches.
Daisy Annita Rice was a high school and music conservatory student at Tualatin Academy in Forest Grove, Oregon, around 1905-1909. The album contains of pressed flowers and other plants, which she probably collected for a class there.
Malcolm and Catherine McIntosh were a prominent family of Salem, Oregon, who later moved to the Orenco area of Hillsboro. The four photograph albums in this collection contain approximately 200 portrait photographs, most dating from around 1880 to 1900, probably depicting their family and friends.
The Young Women's Christian Association at Pacific University, which was formed in 1892, was made up of female student members who organized religious study and charitable work. This record book includes a constitution, meeting minutes and membership lists covering 1892-1900.
A collection of photographs and postcards documenting the life Frances Sorensen Prideaux while attending Pacific University from 1903-1906 and afterwards living in Forest Grove.
Dr. G. Orlo Jefferson (1860-1949) was an optometrist in Portland Oregon, and also a trustee of Pacific University. He and his wife, Matilda J. Calhouns Jefferson (1859-1933) traveled extensively in the Western United States, the Middle East and Europe. The bulk of the collection is made up of photographs, diaries, and travel documents relating to the Jeffersons' journeys, which are particularly interesting for their documentation of early automobile travel.
Thomas McClelland was Pacific University's fourth president, serving from 1892-1900. This collection is primarily composed of correspondence that President McClelland received and wrote during his time at Pacific University.
This collection contains newspaper clippings about Pacific University, mostly pasted into scrapbooks, from the 1870s-2000s. It also includes loose clippings and press release files.
The Boxerettes were a women's honorary service group made up of Pacific University students. This collection includes both records and objects from the group such as their constitution, meeting minutes, treasury logs, photographs and original letterman sweater.
Collection consists of drawings and diaries (both originals and transcripts) and correspondence pertaining to Virgil K. Pringle, Pherne Brown Pringle, and various other family members.
Collection consists of correspondence and notes about Agero Nosei, a 1876 graduate of Pacific University.
Seabury Cone Mastick was a legislator and banker in New York state who later married artist Kathrin Cawein. This collection contains correspondence, photographs, publications, a diploma from Oberlin College, and various legal documents.
Ernst A. Evans, Master and Doctor of Music, was a Professor of Pipe Organ and Music Theory at Washington State College at Pullman in the 1910s. The collection is comprised of manuscript music scores and parts chiefly for keyboard and voice.
Carol and Herb Drew were students at Pacific University from 1956-1960. The collection is chiefly comprised of approximately 40 black-and-white photographs depicting student life at the school during that time.
The Congregational Association of Oregon was an organization representing the Congregationalist churches within Oregon and Washington Territory. This collection includes the Association's constitution, by-laws, minutes from 1857-1869, a list of members and associated churches, and a table of all meetings held between 1848-1886.
Mildred Helena Scobee Reeher (1897-1987) grew up in Portland, Oregon, graduating from Jefferson High School in 1915. She moved to Forest Grove to attend Pacific University and graduated in 1919. She married Max Reeher in 1918 and they spent the majority of their married life in Forest Grove.
The United States Navy employed combat photographers throughout the Second World War to document the actions of the military. Beginning with photographs taken during the bombing of Pearl Harbor, many of the prints were reissued as official publicity shots. The prints were commonly 8"x10" black and white glossy photographs. Many of them include captions on the verso describing the events depicted.
Josephine Clare Harriman was a student in the Conservatory of Music at Pacific University in Oregon from about 1902-1903. Originally from Astoria, she married Robert L. Forrest, a businessman who worked for the Portland Vegetable Oil Mills Company, in 1912.
Willie and Truman Teeter were a married pair of staff and faculty members at Pacific University, where they worked for many years. Willie, also known as "Mrs. T," was a well-known and well-loved staff member at the Pacific University School of Optometry from the 1960s through the 1990s, when she retired. Truman was a professor of chemistry.
The Willamette Baptist Young Peoples' Association was active in northwestern Oregon in the early 1900s. Its members represented youth groups from churches in the Portland, Hillsboro, Astoria and Oregon City areas. It usually held meetings about twice per year, and featured talks on youth and faith issues, musical programs and elections. In 1916, the Willamette Baptist Young Peoples' Association formally merged with the Portland Baptist Young Peoples' Association; they kept the former organization's name. In the years following the merger, up to 120 people attended the meetings.
Fred Scheller was a Professor at Pacific University in the 1960s-1980s. A Pacific University alumnus of 1943, he returned to Pacific for a Master's degree in Education in 1954. He went on to earn a Ph.D. from the Graduate School of Education at the University of Oregon in 1959. As a member of the faculty at Pacific University, he taught speech, drama and communications, and also served as the Director of Media Services in the 1970s.
Scott Hall, formerly called the Harvey Scott Library, opened on the Pacific University campus in Forest Grove, Oregon in 1967. It was the second building on campus to be constructed as a library, following Carnegie Hall.
Pacific University is located in Forest Grove, Oregon. It formerly had an associated high school, Tualatin Academy, which was active from 1849-1914. Between at least the late 1800s and the early 1900s, records of students' registrations and grades were compiled in handwritten log books. Information from these log books was probably the source of the rolls of students which were printed in the annual university Catalogues.
The students at Pacific University and Tualatin Academy, which was one of the earliest institutions of higher education in Oregon, created many literary magazines in the 1850s and 1860s.
According to a note in the West Willamette Association volume, "At its annual meeting in April 1896, the Willamette Association voted to divide into four smaller associations and in accordance with this vote, the West Willammette Association was organized...."
Daisy Annita Rice was a high school and music conservatory student at Tualatin Academy in Forest Grove, Oregon, around 1905-1909. She was originally from Clatskanie. Tualatin Academy was the college preparatory school that was attached to Pacific University. She likely attended a class there given by Charles Oscar Chambers, a professor of biology who taught a course on the botany of flowers.
Malcolm and Catherine McIntosh were a prominent family of Salem, Oregon, who later founded the Orenco neighborhood of Hillsboro.
Malcolm was the president of the Capital City Nursery Company, which produced fruit, nut and shade trees, berry plants, and other nursery stock for shipping throughout the United States and Canada. In 1896, the company expanded its operations into rural Washington County east of the town of Hillsboro, renaming themselves the "Oregon Nursery Company." This location later became their headquarters, and the company name became the name of the local community, which is now known as Orenco. Malcolm McDonald was Orenco's first mayor. Orenco later merged into the town of Hillsboro.
Catherine and Malcolm were both of Scottish descent. Catherine was born to James and Annie McIntosh of London, Ontario, around 1862. Malcolm's parents were Duncan McDonald and Agnes McIntyre, probably also of Ontario, though this is not confirmed. Malcolm was already living in Salem, Oregon, when he married Catherine in London, Ontario, on 22 May 1897. Their 1912 Arts-and-Crafts home still stands in the Orenco neighborhood at 22180 NW Birch Street, Hillsboro.
The Young Women's Christian Association at Pacific University was formed in 1892 with a total of sixteen members. By 1899, approximately two-thirds of the female students on campus (42 of 68) were members. The YWCA met regularly during the school year. Its members arranged on-campus bible studies for the University women, ran prayer meetings, sponsored talks on missionary work, and contributed to charity.
Frances Thora Sorensen from Forest Grove, Oregon attended Pacific University in the Conservatory of Music from 1903-1906. She married Arthur John Prideaux, a Pacific University graduate from Portland, Oregon, on August 15, 1908. She kept two photograph albums, one from her times as student at Pacific University and another during her early married years, 1908-1911.
Dr. G. Orlo Jefferson (1860-1949) was an optometrist in Portland Oregon, and also a trustee of Pacific University. He and his wife, Matilda J. Calhouns Jefferson (1859-1933) traveled extensively in the Western United States, the Middle East and Europe during the early twentieth century. They appear have to have enjoyed automobile travel, going on lengthy car trips in remote areas.
From 1909-1910, the Jefferson went on a lengthy trip to the Middle East and Europe, travelling by train, ship, carriage, donkey and their own personal car.
They began the trip by train, leaving Portland on September 29 for New Orleans via Juarez, Mexico. They took a boat from there up the Mississippi, eventually arriving in New York. There, the Jeffersons bought a 1910 Cadillac Model 33 and had it shipped ahead to Italy, where they would pick it up later. They left the United States from New York on the "Cedric" on January 5, 1910. Their ship stopped briefly in the Azores, Madeira and Gibraltar. After pausing at several cities in Italy, they moved on to Egypt, where they spent about a month sightseeing. From there, they went to Jerusalem and the Dead Sea, and then stopped briefly at Beirut and Damascus before reaching Constantinople in Turkey. From there, they travelled on to Greece and then back to Italy, where the Jeffersons picked up their automobile from customs in order to drive for the remainder of their trip. They drove to various cities in Italy, and then went through Austria to Germany, followed by the Netherlands and France. After shipping the car across the Channel, they then travelled through England, Wales and Scotland, and after another ferry ride, through Ireland. They logged 1,246 miles in the British Isles alone. They sailed back to New York City on October 15, 1910, more than a year after beginning their journey.
The Jeffersons also saved early images of tourist routes through scenic areas of the Western United States, including roads in the Mount Rainier National Park (late 1910s or early 1920s), the Columbia River Highway (circa 1920), and Tioga Pass near Yosemite National Park (1923).
The Jeffersons appear to have had no close living relatives when they passed away. The bulk of their estate was bequeathed to Pacific University and funded a building for the new School of Optometry, which had just opened in 1948. The building is named Jefferson Hall in their honor.
Thomas McClelland was Pacific University's fourth president, serving from 1892-1900. Born in 1849 in County Derry, Ireland, he immigrated to the United States with his family at the age of three. He earned an A.B. at Oberlin College in Ohio in 1875, and then attended Union Theological Seminary in New York and Andover Theological Seminary in Massachussetts. He then taught philosophy for 11 years at Tabor College in Iowa.
When McClelland became Pacific University's president in 1892, he stepped into a tense political atmosphere. The previous president, Jacob Ellis, had resigned over the issue of sectarian control of the university. Ellis, along with one half of the Board of Trustees, favored bringing Pacific under the formal control of the Congregationalist denomination. The other half of the Board of Trustees wanted Pacific to remain non-denominational. McClelland's task was to heal the fractures between the two parties. He fashioned a compromise, amending the charter to give a two-thirds majority of the Board to the Congregationalists, without putting the school under the denomination's direct control. This solution allowed Pacific to retain a special relationship with the Congregationalist Church, while staying a non-sectarian school.
Student life at Pacific evolved considerably during McClelland's presidency. The football team played its first game in 1893. Men's baseball, basketball and track also began early in the decade; women's basketball and track began in 1899. Extracurricular clubs centered on debate, music, drama, archery and the YMCA/YWCA flourished.
The Index, the student newspaper, was established in 1893; The Heart of Oak, the student yearbook, was first issued a year later. McClelland raised funds to construct Marsh Memorial Hall, which became the center of campus administration. He also helped to recruit two influential faculty members, Henry Liberty Bates and Mary Frances Farnham, and oversaw Pacific's 50th anniversary celebrations. Student enrollment in the university doubled during his term.
The constant need to raise money for the university took its toll on McClelland however. He often travelled for months at a time to locations across the United States, looking for sources of funding. When he resigned in 1900, he explained, "I had begun to feel the strain of the constant canvass for money at such a great distance from home and I was keenly sensible to the dact that under the circumstances I could not do for the institution all that, in my judgment, a president should do for a college," (Letter to Myron Eells, 10 Jan 1901). On leaving Pacific, he took a new position as the president of Knox College in Illinois, where he remained for 17 years. He continued to advocate for Pacific University even after leaving. As a member of the board of directors of the Carnegie Foundation, he very likely had a hand in securing its funds for a new dormitory and a library at Pacific University, which were built in 1907 and 1912.
Most of the biographical information above has been adapted from Splendid Audacity: The Story of Pacific University (Gary Miranda and Rick Read, 2000).
Various departments and individuals at Pacific University have collected newspaper clippings about the school since the 19th century. By the 1920s, clippings were being systematically collected and compiled into scrapbooks. Most of the scrapbooks were probably compiled by the Publicity Department or related departments of the University. By the 1940s, the University was subscribing to a clippings service, which supplied clippings about the University, accompanied by tickets stamped with the date and title of the newspaper where the articles appeared. These clippings were normally compiled into scrapbooks, but were sometimes left loose. This process of acquiring clippings from a commercial service and then creating scrapbooks appears to have continued from the 1940s through the early 1990s.
In the late 1990s, the Publicity Office began saving its press releases, and filing them with clippings of any articles that were published based upon them. They appear to have discontinued making scrapbooks at that time.
In addition to the scrapbooks and press release files, various individuals associated with Pacific University independently collected loose clippings. Several people who may have been involved in saving clippings include Irene Story and Rick Read, who were involved with the Old College Hall Museum. Female students in the Herrick Hall dormitory may also have collected some of the earliest clippings records, though the records are unclear.
The Boxerettes were an honorary service women's group at Pacific University. The group was founded in 1936 and was active until 1971. Young Pacific women were chosen to be in the Boxerettes based on scholarship, leadership quality and personality. The group helped host such functions as the President's Tea, freshman orientation, the Music in May concert, and beach days with their male counterparts, the Intercollegiate Knights. They were well-known on campus for their visibility in a number of programs and for hosting social events for the student body.
Virgil Kellogg Pringle and Pherne Brown emigrated to Oregon from Missouri in 1846. Pherne was a daughter of Tabitha Brown, one of the founders of Pacific University.
Agero Nosei (1852-1895), native of Tokigawa Shogunate in Japan, was a 1876 graduate of Pacific University. Nosei came to the United States in 1870 and returned to Japan following his graduation from the university. In Japan he worked in the education field, as as professor and principal of various schools. He also served in the ministry of education and spent the last few years of his life writing and publishing various educational works.
Pacific University was one of the first univesities in the United States to grant degrees to students from Japan. In 1891 the university awarded Nosei an honorary master of arts.
Seabury Cone Mastick was a legislator and banker in New York state who later married artist Kathrin Cawein. He was born in San Francisco, California on August 19, 1871 to William Henry Cone and Laura Jeanette Mastick. Left an orphan early in life, he was adopted by his mother’s brother and his wife, Seabury L. Mastick and Mary Wood Mastick. He attended Hopkins Academy in Oakland California before entering Oberlin College in 1887. While at Oberlin he met Agnes Eliza Warner, whom he married in 1896. After graduation he studied law at the University of California, Hastings School of Law receiving his Bachelor of Laws (LLB) in 1894. He also received a Masters Degree from Oberlin in 1894. He practiced law until 1917, specializing in patent litigation. In 1917 he became an officer in the United States Navy, rising to Lieutenant Commander before his retirement in 1920. He was awarded a silver star for inventing the high velocity star shell artillery ammunition. He later worked in chemical manufacturing after getting out of the navy. He had a career in politics from 1921 to 1935, serving on the New York State Assembly and as a New York Senator from 1923 to 1935. He worked in the banking industry from 1936 to 1958. Mr. and Mrs. Mastick had no children. Agnes Mastick died November 8th, 1963. The following year Seabury married artist Kathrin Cawein. Seabury died in Manchester, England on August 21, 1969.
Ernst A. Evans, Master and Doctor of Music, was a Professor of Pipe Organ and Music Theory at Washington State College at Pullman in the 1910s. He had previously been an Examiner at the Victoria College of Music, presumably in British Columbia. He was a Fellow of the Incorporated Guild of Church Musicians in London. He composed many works which do not appear to have been published. His extant manuscripts are mostly sacred works.
Carol and Herb Drew were students at Pacific University from 1956-1960. Both were journalism majors and were involved in many clubs and activities on campus. Carol, whose maiden name was Bowser, married Herb while they were enrolled.
The Congregational Association of Oregon was an organization representing the Congregationalist churches within Oregon and Washington Territory. Its first meetings, which appear to have been relatively informal gatherings of ministers, were held in Forest Grove and Oregon City in 1848. According its Constitution, its aims were to "promote all objects of Christian benevolence" and "encourage evangelical education." In practice, the Association addressed issues such as:
Funding church projects and ministers' salaries
Defining the church's position on social issues, including slavery
Hiring and assignment of ministers
Communications with other Congregationalist associations in the eastern United States
Supporting the activities of other associations including the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, the American Tract Society, the American Bible Society and Pacific University.
Most of the Association's members were ministers of Congregationalist churches in Oregon and Washington Territory. A few were from other denominations, including Presbyterians and Methodist Episcopalians. Some of the most prominent members included: Harvey Clark, Elkanah Walker, Henry H. Spalding, George Atkinson, Cushing Eells, Myron Eells, Horace Lyman, Sidney Harper Marsh, Obed Dickinson and Thomas Condon.
More information about the history of the Association can be found in Myron Eells' History of the Congregational Association of Oregon, and Washington Territory: The Home Missionary Society of Oregon and Adjoining Territories; and the Northwestern Association of Congregational Ministers. (Portland: Himes, 1881.)
The donor, Glen Griffitts, worked as a police detective in Portland, Oregon. A colleague of his, Detective Patrick McGuire, found these items abandoned in a house in Northeast Portland in the mid-1970s. Glen Griffitts determined that they were once the property of Dr. G. Orlo Jefferson and his wife, Matilda. The Jeffersons donated a large sum of money to Pacific University around 1945 and had no children. Glen Griffitts believes, based on probate records, that the Jeffersons bequeathed these items to one of their household staff, and that they were subsequently abandoned. Additional information about the provenance is available in the research notes section of this collection.
The collection consists of three items - a photograph album, book, and newspaper clipping. The photograph album features images of Pacific University during Reeher's time as a student, including activities such as as sports, May Day and theatrical presentations; individual and group views of classmates and faculty; and graduation ceremonies. Some images are identified; most are not. The book, The Home Within the Wilderness was written by Mildred S. Reeher and tells the story of the Reeher family traveling to and settling in Oregon in 1887. The newspaper clipping appeared in the News-Times (Forest Grove) as part of their "Senior Clips" series and featured Reeher and her memories of Pacific University, Forest Grove, and married life.
The collection contains approximately 80 glossy black and white prints of the Pacific front of World War II. Some significant images within the collection include the bombing of Pearl Harbor; the bombardment of Guam; aircraft and ships in battle; sailors engaged in fighting and evacuations; the Japanese surrender on the deck of the USS Missouri, and other signings of surrenders; and others. All the photographs appear to be publicity shots for the United States Navy. According to notes that arrived with the collection, the prints were given from a Navy photographer to Kevin Trainor, who gave them to Dean Howard L. Smith, who donated them to the Pacific University Archives.
The collection consists of three small photograph albums. The first is labelled "Snaps of Josephine Harriman" and features very small photographs, probably of her classmates at Pacific University; most are portraits but there are a few outdoor scenes. The second is labelled "My Last Vacation" but most of the pictures appear to have been taken on the Pacific University campus. The third album, which is mostly blank, features approximately 15 small prints of women in outdoor scenes, probably in Oregon circa 1900. With the exception of one cyanotype, all the photographs are silver gelatin prints.
This collection consists of photographs, awards, yearbooks, publications and memorabilia that Wille and Truman Teeter collected. Most of the material is related to their connections to Pacific University, such as awards that Willie Teeter won for her service as a staff member. Several issues of "The Optimist," the yearbook of Forest Grove High School from their daughter's time there, are also present.
Note: Cookbooks that belonged to Willie Teeter are cataloged separately, under MS.100. Yearbooks and runs of Pacific University publications donated by the Teeters were added to existing runs of the same publications in the Archives. Additional books from the Teeter Family were donated to the Pacific University Library for its general circulating collection.
Trophy shelved alongside the collection.
Includes classes of 1971, 1973-1993. Housed in oversized drawer 7.
The collection consists of records of the Willamette Baptist Young Peoples' Association from 1907-1917, mostly contained within a handwritten record book. This record book includes meeting minutes from 1909-1917, rosters of officers and pastors, and summaries of treasurer's reports. It is accompanied by about one dozen loose documents, including a program from the "Consolidation Rally" that merged the Willamette and Portland associations in 1916; a 1915 "Report of the Entertainment Committee"; a list of officers and their addresses; a membership count divided by church name; a letter from the Oregon Baptist State Convention; a letter from the Multnomah County Christian Endeavor Union; a form letter from the Baptist Young People's Union of America; pamphlets about Baptist missions in Mexico and China; and other miscellaneous items.
This collection is chiefly comprised of instructional manuals for radio and television production written by Professor Fred Scheller. These were probably created as teaching materials for classes and/or student workers at Pacific University. Also included: his "A Plan for Learning: A non-technical approach designed for teachers to help in systematically preparing learning sequences for individuals or groups," and his dissertation, "A Comparative Study of the Difference in Student Attitudes toward History and Chemistry Television Courses."
Ph.D. dissertation presented to the School of Education and the Graduate School of the University of Oregon.
Pedagogical manual for teachers.
Includes detailed rules and instructions for student announcers on the Pacific University campus radio station, KPUR.
Handbook for creating training videos for television.
Handbook of television production methods, including lighting, camera work, graphics, scripts, music, etc.
This small collection of material was formerly deposited in a time capsule within Scott Hall on the Pacific University Campus. The time capsule was sealed during the dedication of Scott Hall, which was at the time called the Harvey Scott Library, in 1967. Contents include a sealed 1967 Pacific University catalog; a Spring 1967 issue of the Pacific Review; a Pacific University faculty handbook; a copy of the final construction bill for Scott Hall; notes and minutes from student government meetings; a list of recent additions to the library collection; and a Coors Beer label signed by three members of the Pacific University student government. The beer label was surreptitiously placed the label within the time capsule, according to the alumni's reports. The capsule was opened on the 50th anniversary year of Scott Hall's dedication in 2017. The metal capsule that originally housed the collection was returned for use as a new time capsule in Scott Hall's walls.
This collection consists of student registration records from Pacific University and its associated high school, Tualatin Academy. Two log books are included. Both contain information such as students' names, enrollment dates, parents' names, home towns, addresses, grades and absences. The log books date from 1877-1883 and 1891-1912.
This ledger book is organized chronologically, listing students enrolled at Pacific University and Tualatin Academy for each academic year. The students' names, parents' names, home town, local address, age, date of entry, coursework, absences and grades are included in some terms.
A registration log organized chronologically. Includes students' name, courses taken and grade received, age, names of parent/guardian and home town.
This collection contains handwritten serial publications created by the students of Pacific University and Tualatin Academy. It is not clear how (or how much) they circulated. They look like a printed format of a publication. Most of the articles have to do with do with morals and values, such as happiness and temperance, as well as subjects of general interest to the student writers. Some examples of these interests include astrology, arts, education, and current events. A few of the editorials touch on student life at Pacific University and Tualatin Academy, but are very spare in detail.
5 volumes and selected articles. 1857-58. Editors: C.H. Walker, Edwin Eells, Theodore Silver, T.B. Hendery.
4 volumes from 1857-1859. Editors: Ch. H. Walker, Edwin Eells, Theodore Silver, T.H. Handley.
7 volumes. 1859-1860. Editors: J.E. Walker, Thomas B. Hoover, E. Eells, Myron Eells, C.S. Dustin, C.H. Raffety. "The College Echo is a semi-monthly journal published by a division of the students of the Pacific University and is devoted to Education, Temperance, Agriculture, Art, + Science and General Intelligence."
1 volume. Editors: William D. Lyman, Sarah Lyman, Arvid Hinman, Levi Walker, Rebecca Buxton, Amanda Tottle. General writings on topics of interest to the editors.
1 volume. 1875. Editors: Mefers, Lyman, Collier, Atkinson. Members of the Gamma Sigma Society. Purpose: “Give members of the Gamma Sigma Society an opportunity to make public their thoughts on various subjects of interest.” Short essays by members.
1 volume. Editor: J.W. Johnson. "Devoted to moral, physical, and intellectual improvement." Short essays on different topics.
3 volumes. 1857-58 no. 1-3. Editors: A.A. Grub, M.I. Scott, D. Hill, A.E. Stoll, T.L. Jolly.
4 volumes. 1858. Vol. 1: no. 1, 3, 5, and a special issue entitled “The Starry Gems,” containing selections from the compositions of each of the contributors to the “Star of the West” during the previous term. Publishing committee: Edwin Eells, Charles H. Walker, J.B. Hardly. Essays written by: Thomas B. Hoover, W.W. Black, Mary E. Morris, Myron Eells, Albert Finney, Mary A. Reasoner, Marcus W. Walker, Woodson Scoggins, Edwin Eells, L.M. Tanner, Leremiah Walker, David Stewart, Tom Thumb, P.S. Jolly, C.B. Green, M.E. Story, T.B. Hardley, Cyrus H. Walker, S.W. Hall.
16 issues. 1859-61. “Semimonthly Paper…It is devoted to temperance, arts, science and general intelligence.” Editors: James Purdin, M.H. Cotter, F.N. Reasoner. Richard L. Lewis, H.W. Scott, J.W. Jolly, J.E. Walker, Myron Eells, T. Huddlestun, D. Stewart, Kate Owens.
4 issues. "Devoted to Science, Agriculture, Arts, Improvement, Historical Researchers, and General Intelligence." Editors: J.W. Jolly, E. Eells, C.W. Raffety.
4 volumes. 1861. Editor: C.H. Raffety, J.W. Jolly, F.N. Reasoner. Authors: Nancy T. Marty, H. Naylor, L. Hines, J. Naylor, E. Reasoner, Mary Harell, R.L. Boyles, Edwin Eells, Cicero Hines, John R. Walker and others. “A semimonthly sheet published by a division of the students of the Pacific University. Devoted to science, literature, finance and general intelligence.”
1 volume, May 25, 1860. Editor: Susan L. Tanner. 1 volume. 1860. Authors: Charles H. Raffety, W. Brown. "…a semi-monthly journal published by a division of the students of Pacific University, and is devoted to science, literature, and general intelligence."
1 volume. Editor: R.B. Willmott. Published by the students of Forest Grove (Pacific) University.
1 volume. 1859. "Printed by the students of Tualatin Academy." Editor: Wesley Black.
Records of the Willamette Association of Congregational Ministers and Churches, including surveys of associated churches, correspondence, programs for meetings, documentation of church affiliations, letters of ordination, committee reports, bills, and meeting minutes. Note on box: "Probably from Henry Bates." Also one volume of minutes from the West Willamette Association of Congregational Churches and Ministers, including by-laws and a list of ministers ordained.
The album contains of pressed flowers and other plants that were collected and labelled by Daisy Anitta Rice, probably for a high school class at Tualatin Academy in Forest Grove, Oregon. The album was donated to Pacific University by Rena Watten of Tygh Valley.
The four family photograph albums contain approximately 200 photographs, most dating from around 1880 to 1900. Nearly all of the photographs are portraits, probably of the McDonald Family and their friends. Many are baby pictures and wedding pictures. The majority are are albumen prints in cabinet card format, with some carte-de-visite and tintypes of various sizes also present. The two larger albums are bound strikingly, one in bright blue velvet with embroidered flowers, and the other in blindstamped sheepskin.
Most of the photographs in the first album were produced in studios located in Salem, Oregon. One photograph in this album has a note attached to it that reads: "To Mrs. McDonald, Sincerely, Hattie." The woman in this photograph may have been a domestic servant with the McDonald family. She appears to have possibly been a woman of color. Other photographs in the album are from studios in Portland, Oregon; San Francisco, California; Saint Louis, Missouri; and other locations.
Most of the photographs in the second album were produced in London, Ontario. A few of the photographs are from studios located in Michigan. These pictures probably depict Catherine's friends and family. Like the other album, most of the pictures are single or group portraits, baby pictures or wedding pictures. There are two carte-de-visite format photographs of baseball players in uniforms, possibly dating from about 1895, with the letter "T" on their shirts. They were probably members of the London Tecumsehs, a professional baseball team active at that time. One loose piece of cardboard used as backing within the album preserves a handwritten address to "Miss Katie McIntosh"; another item is labelled, "Mrs. McIntosh... London, Ontario." A funeral card for an Ann McIntosh who died in 1897 (probably Catherine's mother), is laid in, along with a few other loose items.
The third photograph album is smaller, with one carte-de-visite inserted per page. At least two photographs in this album have the note written on the verso, "Mrs. M. McDonald, Salem, Ore." Several of them were produced in studios in Scotland, and may picture distant Scottish relatives of the McDonalds. There is also one carte-de-visite depicting two Native Americans from Minnedosa, Manitoba.
The fourth photograph album is also smaller, with one carte-de-visite inserted per page. The Pacific University Archives believes that it is associated with the McDonald Family, although it was previously shelved in a separate area and has no handwritten notes identifying it as a McDonald album. Several of the photographs picture the same people who appear in the other albums, and some were taken in studios in Ontario and Scotland. The pictures probably depict Catherine's friends and family. The archives had previously identified this album as being of the "Rogers Family?" but there is no other information about why this assignment had been made.
The record book includes a constitution, meeting minutes and membership lists from 1892-1900. It provides details on the YWCA's activities at Pacific University, such as prayer meetings, bible study, charity work, studies of missionary work, and participation in regional YWCA activities. Several blank Pacific University student registration cards, an instruction sheet entitled "The Bean" (apparently a work-sheet from a botany class), and some notes about YWCA committees are also laid in.
The two photograph albums contain photographs, postcards, and photographic postcards of the Pacific University campus, students and friends at Pacific University, the city of Forest Grove and surrounding buildings, and other nearby places in Washington County, Oregon.
The bulk of the collection is made up of photographs, diaries, and travel documents relating to the Jeffersons' travels across the Western United States, the Middle East and Europe in the early twentieth century. Many of the photographs illustrate their interest in driving automobiles to exotic and scenic locations. There are many images of roads, unusual vehicles and tourist locations. Early images of tourist routes through Yosemite National Park, Mount Rainer National Park, and the Columbia River Highway depict the roads and natural scenery of these areas. The group of photographs from the Jeffersons' trip to the Middle East and Europe (1909-1910) includes many pictures of tourist sites, but also many pictures of street scenes. They took numerous photographs of people doing manual labor. There are pictures of African American dock workers moving freight, women washing clothes, shoe shiners, peddlers and two pictures of child laborers in Italy, among others. In addition to the photographs, other notable items in the collection include a two-volume diary of the Middle East/Europe trip; a visa issued for travel in Turkey; and a group of unidentified family photographs.
Provenance information for the collection: The donor of this collection to the Pacific University Archives, Glen Griffitts, worked as a police detective in Portland, Oregon. A colleague of his, Detective Patrick McGuire, found these items abandoned in a house in Northeast Portland in the mid-1970s. Glen Griffitts determined that they were once the property of Dr. G. Orlo Jefferson and his wife, Matilda. The Jeffersons donated a large sum of money to Pacific University around 1945 and had no children. Glen Griffitts believes, based on probate records, that the Jeffersons bequeathed this collection to one of their household staff, and that it was subsequently abandoned. Additional information about the provenance is available in the research notes section of this collection. 
Nearly all the photographs in this series have a handwritten caption and date on the verso.
Includes multiple photographs of African American dock workers on the Mississippi.
Images of a "bullock sledge" in Madeira and Gibraltar seen from the sea.
Chiefly images of tourist sites, automobiles and carriages. Also includes images of street scenes: streetcleaners, women washing clothes, a child laborer "crushing clay in the street to make cement tile," a "public water closet" in use, a net weaver, and a child selling bread from a cart.
Images of tourist sites.
Chiefly images of tourist sites.
Chiefly images of tourist sites and views of Turkey from the sea. Also includes street scenes: men blacking shoes, a procession of the Sultan, men carrying crates, and stray dogs.
Images of tourist sites, transportation and peasants in traditional clothing.
Chiefly landscape views.
Includes postcards and snapshots from early automobile trips to Mount Rainier National Park, the Cloud Cap Inn at Mount Hood, Hood River, and Crater Lake Lodge; and unidentified family snapshots.
Snapshots from a trip to California, including images of landscapes and cabins at Yosemite National Park, Hetch Hetchy, driving on the Tioga Pass, and Lake Tahoe.
Notes on the provenance and history of the materials in the collection; also includes print-outs of historic maps, photographs, census documents, and other items relating to the history of the collection.
This collection is primarily composed of incoming correspondence that President McClelland received during his time at Pacific University. The most common topic within the letters is fundraising, followed by requests for course catalogs and inquiries about affairs at Pacific University. Enclosed in one letter, there is a set of reports by an undercover police agent who observed illegal liquor sales at a drug store in Forest Grove. There are also several manuscripts of writings by McClelland related to Pacific University, commencement programs, and other materials.
Regarding rumors of financial irregularities related to President Ferrin and the building of Herrick Hall.
Two letters written after McClelland had left Pacific University; regarding personal matters and the state of school.
2 letters regarding donations.
Regarding a donation.
Requesting a Pacific University catalog.
Three letters regarding donations.
Enclosing a check.
Regarding a donation.
Four incoming and four outgoing Regarding Pacific University business after McClelland had left for his next position. Includes discussion of the appointment of a new president and the Pearsons' fund.
One outgoing letter to Eells explaining his reasons for resigning from Pacific University; and one incoming letter asking for a photograph of Thomas McClelland, to be published in a history of Pacific University. This letter was found accompanied by a humorous photograph of a man dumping another man into a pond.
Two letters regarding fundraising for Pacific University.
Copy of a letter from McClelland to Lloyd regarding a donation to Pacific University.
Regarding sending a son to Tualatin Academy.
Regarding Pacific University business. For later letters between McClelland and Ferrin, see: Pacific University President William N. Ferrin Records (RG.3.105).
Recommendation letter.
Requesting a Pacific University catalog.
Recommendation letter.
Requesting a Pacific University catalog.
Requesting a Pacific University catalog for 5 Oregon women: Echo Koonly, Ilda Poppleton, Anna Luster, Olivia Jacobs, and Laura Richards.
Fragment of a letter from McClelland to Kellogg.
Contains reports from an "agent" regarding the sales of beer and liquor in Forest Grove. The reports, which appear to describe clandestine sales in a Forest Grove drug store contrary to state law, are enclosed in correspondence from McClelland's attorney and a "superintendent," who was probably from the Portland police.
Two outgoing letters and one incoming letter regarding the Dr. Pearsons endowment for Pacific University.
Outgoing letter recommending "President Warren" as the new president of Pacific University.
Regarding Pacific University business, including McClelland's acceptance of the presidency, the school's finances, recruitment of faculty, and dealings with the Carnegie Foundation. Includes many outgoing letters from McClelland to Marsh, and 1 incoming letter from Marsh to McClelland.
Recommending two prospective students for admission.
Three outgoing letters from McClelland to Pearson regarding recommendations for the next president of Pacific University.
Regarding donations.
Requesting a Pacific University catalog.
2 letters regarding donations.
Requesting a Pacific University catalog.
Requesting a Pacific University catalog.
1 incoming and 1 outgoing letter regarding approaching Dr. Pearson about donations.
Letter of recommendation.
Requesting a recommendation.
Requesting Pacific University catalog for a list of students in Scappoose, Oregon.
Regarding a donation.
One incoming and one outgoing letter regarding the burning of Pacific University's Herrick Hall (the women's dormitory) and fundraising for reconstruction.
Several incoming and outgoing letters regarding the funding of a library for Pacific University through the Carnegie Foundation, and various other financial matters.
Congratulations on his new position.
Lengthy letter regarding Pacific University's chemistry program, discussing course credits and laboratory work, and comparing it to that of Amherst College and Beloit College.
Outgoing letter from McClelland to Winchester regarding personal matters.
Fragile original copies of letters on onionskin paper. Photocopies of the items in this folder have been photocopied and filed in the main series of correspondence.
Includes a life insurance policy, bank shares, a mortgage bond, and a receipt.
Includes McClelland's inauguration program (1892), commencement programs (1893 and 1897), a circular letter and pamphlet regarding fundraising for Pacific University (1899?), and a calendar of the First Congregational Church in Forest Grove (1913).
This collection contains press clippings about Pacific University, mostly pasted into scrapbooks. These scrapbooks begin in the 1920s. The clippings from the 1940s through the early 1990s are mostly accompanied by stamped tickets that record the date and newspaper from which them came. The clippings from 1998-2003 are accompanied by the press releases that generated the news stories. Two boxes of loose clippings from various sources cover the late 19th century through the 20th century.
Label reads 1959 - 1968. Actual dates range from May 1959 - Aug 1970.
Label on volume reads Jan 1962 - Apr 1962
The collection includes the Boxerettes' original constitution, meeting minutes, activities records and treasury logs. It also includes the gavel used at every meeting, an original letterman sweater, a commendation plaque honoring the group for their service work, and other items.
Objects are placed in the same box as the records, at the end of the collection.
The collection consists of original drawings (and reproductions), by Pherne Brown Pringle, in a scrapbook and also loose pages; two diaries kept by Virgil Kellog Pringle (1846 and 1852-1856; originals and typescripts); and family correspondence (original and typescripts). Also includes correspondence with Pacific University officials with various family members.
Collection consists of correspondence and notes collected by Frances Clapp regarding Pacific University alumnus and Japanese national Agero Nosei, including a biography (in Japanese) of Nosei.
This collection contains correspondence, photographs, publications, a diploma from Oberlin College, and various legal documents, all pertaining to Seabury Cone Mastick. Other materials include memorabilia from Oberlin College, and narratives of his travels. Additional materials pertain to Mastick's first wife, Agnes Warner Mastic, his second wife, Kathrin Cawein Mastick and his nephew, Fairfax Mastick Cone.
Contains narratives typed by Seabury detailing trips taken throughout his life. Destinations include Venice, Florence, and others.
Contains correspondence between Kathrin Cawein Mastick and a representative from The National Cyclopedia of American Biography concerning inclusion of a piece on Seabury Mastic.
Contains letters and other material to and from Mr. and Mrs. Agnes Seabury Mastic.
Original artwork is enclosed, along with a note to Seabury signed "A.A.F.J.".
Contains correspondence and newspaper articles concerning Fairfax Cone Mastick, Seabury's nephew. He worked in advertising, heading up the firm Foote, Cone & Belding throughout most of its history.
Contains Seabury Mastic's death certificates, as well as letters and correspondence between Kathrin Cawein Mastick and various other individuals pertaining to various matters of Seabury Mastic's estate.
Contains a pamphlet titled "The Place of Healing in the Ministry of the Church" by Rev. George F. MacLeod, various news clippings, and a piece on Seabury's gift of a swimming pool to the town of Pleasantville.
Contains various legal documents, i.e. agreements and indentures, regarding Seabury Mastick Cone and Kathrin Cawein Mastic.
Contains Seabury's diplomas form Wagner Lutherin College and Pacific University, both written in latin.
Includes awards for horticulture exhibits shown by Agnes Mastick for a show put on by the Horticultural Society of New York, as well as a pamphlet titled "1923 Mastick Dahlias", distributor M.G. Tyler.
Includes a photo of Agnes taken in 1947 as well as a news clipping on Mr. and Mrs. Mastic's 60th wedding anniversary.
Contains a variety of material having to do with Oberlin College at the time Seabury was teaching. Includes a photo album of commencement exercises, a Phi Delta Society pamphlet, and event programs.
1969 edition containing a piece on Seabury written after his death.
Contains photographs taken outside the Pacific University Art building showing movers unloading large barrels.
Photographs of Seabury throughout his life, as well as some with Agnes Eliza Mastick and Kathrin Kawein.
The collection is comprised of manuscript music scores and parts composed by Ernst A. Evans, chiefly for keyboard and voice. Most of the works are sacred music. Several of the compositions include scores for multiple voice parts. Also present is a broadside advertising the performance of his piece "Seven Last Words" at the Saint Davids Episcopal Church in Portland.
This collection came into the hands of Edward and Lucile Evans Hargreaves, who were Pacific University graduates and staff. They donated the material to Pacific University in 1993.
The collection is comprised of approximately 40 black-and-white photographs depicting student life at Pacific University from 1956-1960. Some of the photographs were apparently created for the Pacific University Index (the student newspaper) during that time period. Some notable subjects include sporting events, Greek letter societies (Phi Lambda Omicron and Alpha Zeta), portraits of individual students, plans for the construction of Walter Hall, a "Boxer Toss," librarians in the old Carnegie Library, and the swimsuit competition in a "Miss Forest Grove" contest. Also present in the collection is one envelope of negatives.
The collection includes a record book, which contains the Association's constitution, by-laws and minutes from 1857-1869. The record book is accompanied by a set of folded pages listing the individual members, associated churches, and a table of all meetings held between 1848-1886. It lists ministers of the Congregationalist Churches in Oregon and Washington Territory, with the date when they were received as ministers in the region, along with the date and reason for leaving the Association. The names, locations and active dates of associated churches are also listed. A table listing all past meetings of the association going back to 1848 is also included.

