Charles L. Abernethy, Sr. (1872-1955) was a Democratic Congressman representing eastern North Carolina from 1922-1935. His professional papers consist chiefly of correspondence and records from his law practice and legal cases, with smaller amounts of writings and speeches, financial papers, printed materials, diaries, and some personal papers, including early deeds. There is also a large group of photographs, photo albums, and clippings scrapbooks chiefly documenting Abernethy's political career. One album from 1907 contains postcards of Beaufort, N.C.; another contains photographs of a three-month Congressional trip to Alaska, 1923, and includes images of President and Mrs. Harding and a diary transcript of the trip. Other items include some papers of his son, Charles Laban Abernethy, Jr., also a lawyer, and a volume of his poetry.
Network of independent abortion providers, allies, and individuals; founded through the merge of the National Coalition of Abortion Providers and the Abortion Conversation Project. Collection includes founding documents, newsletters, and promotional and printed materials from the Abortion Care Network. Acquired as part of the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture.
Market researcher and advertising executive who worked at several agencies; partner in a consulting practice under several names; lecturer and author of marketing textbooks. The Alvin A. Achenbaum Papers span the years 1948-2011 and document Achenbaum's career in advertising (with Grey Advertising, J. Walter Thompson and Backer Spielvogel Bates agencies) and marketing consulting (as a partner in Alvin Achenbaum Associates, Canter Achenbaum Heekin, and Achenbaum Bogda Associates). Collection includes writings and speeches, correspondence, photographs, research reports and related materials. Clients represented include 7-Eleven, American Red Cross, AT&T, Block Drug, Bristol-Myers, Campbell Soup, Chrysler, Dairy Queen, Dentsu, Franklin Mint, General Foods, GTE, Hallmark, Honda, Integrity Music, Kayser-Roth, Kia, K-Mart, Miller Brewing, MTA, Nationwide, Nestlé, Nissan/Datsun, PCA, Pfizer, Philip Morris, Quaker Oats, Revlon, Ryerson Tull, Seagram, Toyota, U.S. Dept. of Defense, and Warner-Lambert. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Joe Nash (1919-2005) was a self-taught dancer and prominent historian of African-American dance history. Collection includes photographic prints, programs, clippings, fliers, and other printed materials.
Album contains 106 black-and-white and color photographs mounted in a black-leaf photograph album, bound in Japanese-style lacquered covers. The photographer may be an African American soldier named Tommy, who served in the U.S. Army's 511th Operation and Maintenance Service (OM SVC) Company during the Korean War. It is unclear whether the photographs are from Japan or from Korea. The images depict soldiers at work and enjoying recreational time. Many photographs depict both white and African American soldiers together. Other subjects include local women and children; women with servicemen; the countryside and Japanese-style buildings; and family members and others back home. Collection includes an early 20th century 10 1/2 x 14 inch portrait of four African American children. Acquired as part of the John Hope Franklin Research Center for African and African American History and Culture at Duke University.
Consists of approximately 50 posters the bulk of which consist of corporate promotions depicting notable African Americans or significant moments in African American history and culture. Posters include biographical sketches of African American writers, scientists, professional athletes, soldiers, civil rights workers and celebrity entertainers. Participating companies include Anheuser-Busch (Budweiser), Army National Guard, CIBA-GEIGY, Columbia Artists Management, Federal Home Loan Bank, Honeywell, Nabisco and Pepsi. Also included in the collection are a number of promotional posters produced by and for the NAACP that address the organization's campaigns to reduce poverty, school dropouts and voter registration, as well as calls to join the NAACP. Acquired as part of the John Hope Franklin Research Center for African and African American History and Culture and the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
The African Americans in Film collection includes ephemeral materials, especially posters and pressbooks, promoting and advertising motion pictures featuring Black actors, directors, and production companies.
Collection consists of two series, Civil War Papers and Lee Family Papers, acquired and assembled by collectors Alfred and Elizabeth Brand. Materials relate to the Lee family, including Francis Lightfoot Lee, Henry Light Horse Harry Lee, Richard Henry Lee, and Robert E. Lee, as well as Civil War history, including battle reports, correspondence between Confederate and Union leaders and officers (such as Braxton Bragg, Jefferson Davis, William T. Sherman, and Thomas 'Stonewall' Jackson), presidential pardons and oaths of allegiance, and some printed materials.
The Roland Alston family was an African American family residing in Durham, NC. William Roland Alston, Sr., known as "Roland," became the head gardener for Mary Duke Biddle at Pinecrest then Mary Duke Biddle Trent Semans at Les Terraces. This collection contains eight oral history interviews with Roland and ten photographs of his family.
Americans for Immigrant Justice (formerly Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center [FIAC]) is a not-for-profit legal assistance organization dedicated to protecting and promoting the basic human rights of immigrants of all nationalities. The Americans for Immigrant Justice records span the years of 1980-2017. The collection contains project files and correspondence regarding immigrant detention policy and conditions in the state of Florida, particularly concerning the Haitian community; legal documents regarding the same, including restricted and confidential legal files; and audiovisual material produced by or for AIJ. The bulk of materials are organized by subject and detention facility.
In the mid nineteenth century, publishers printed the lyrics to popular songs, without their tunes, on small sheets called song sheets, handbills, or broadsides. These sheets were often illustrated with a woodcut scene or portrait and sold at gathering places where people sang together. Duke's collection of American song sheets includes 1,982 of these ephemeral productions, from "The Star Spangled Banner" to "Pop Goes the Weasel," forming a rich source for research on American society and culture. The American South and the Civil War era are especially well documented, including well over one hundred Confederate broadsides. The collection also includes carrier's addresses, non-musical poetry, and other ephemeral verse. Publishers represented in the collection include: J. Andrews, A. W. Auner, Bell and Company, James D. Gray, Johnson and Company, Charles Magnus, H. de Marsan, T. M. Scroggy, St. Clair Smith, John T. Thorne, H. J. Wehman, J. Wrigley, and others.
American woman traveling in Europe. The diary, begun on April 6, 1878, and ending on Nov. 9, 1878 in Augsburg, covers the travels of an American woman through England, France, Germany, Sweden, Norway, and Russia. Included are descriptions of visits to museums and royal palaces. While in Norway, the author met and spent time with Gen. and Mrs. Ulysses S. Grant. Formerly known as Anonymous diary, 1878.
An organization dedicated to studying ancient Greek and Latin papyri. Collection houses archives of the American Society of Papyrologists, including the Society's constitution, financial papers, correspondence, Director's Office files, memoranda, and other administrative files, spanning the years 1977-1993.
Collection comprises seven letters from Susan B. Anthony to various correspondents, one postcard written to her, a printed item, and a letter by S. J. S. Holden that mentions Anthony, Stanton, and the 1874 National Woman Suffrage Association (N.W.S.A.) convention. 
Video recording consists of a slide show of still images chiefly taken at annual meetings of the American Ophthalmological Society, most of which were and still are held at The Homestead Resort in Hot Springs, Virginia. Though the series begins with historical images, the first of which is a panoramic print of the 1919 conference attendees, most date from the 1950s through 1993, and are mostly in color. Subjects typically include scenes from the meetings, candid portraits of individuals attending the meeting and enjoying recreational activities, and the locations and grounds where the meetings were held. A credit line bears the name M. N. Luxenberg, Malcom (Mike) N. Luxenberg, ophthalmologist in Augusta, Georgia, Past President of AOS, and Professor and Chair for Ophthalmology for Augusta University. Aquired as part of the History of Medicine Collections at Duke University.
Anne Baker was an abortion counselor, serving as the Director of Counseling at the Hope Clinic for Women in Granite City, Illinois for the majority of her career. The Anne Baker papers consist of informational pamphlets, handouts, forms, workshop evaluations, personal writings, newspaper clippings, photographs, correspondence, VCRs, DVDs, cassettes, buttons, and sweatshirts.
English businessman and schoolmaster. Manuscript journal written in 25 annual vols. of Lett's Diary. Years included are 1859, 1861-1879, and 1900-1904. Volume 1870 has been rehoused into 7 different parts.
U.S. consul official and newspaper editor and publisher. Correspondence, scrapbooks, clippings, pamphlets, pictures, and genealogy, reflecting Baker's consular career and the Baker, Dunster, Griffiths, Speir, and Willis families of the U. S., Great Britain, and Australia. The papers relate to family affairs, Baker's work as consul (1907-1911) in Tasmania, as commercial attache in Russia during World War I, and as an opponent of trade with Russia (1930-1931). Includes some clippings and pictures (1916-1927) from the Trinidad consulate.
Collection comprises 23 color photographs (4"x 6") of Bamako, Mali, sent to Helene Baumann by a friend in 2002, accompanied by a letter containing descriptive information for each photograph. Baumann was librarian for African and Western European Studies at Duke University, 1988-2006. Includes images of housing conditions; markets, public spaces, monuments, and buildings; and soccer matches.
Anna Letitia Barbauld was an English woman of letters who had great professional success at a time when women writers were still something of an anomaly. She is remembered for her poetry, children's literature, essays, criticism, and editorial works. She was rediscovered when feminist literary critics examined her place in British literary history. Barbauld was also an abolitionist, something she had in common with fellow educator and Stoke Newington resident William Allen. This item is a single small sheet of paper with an autograph manuscript poem by Barbauld on the front dated August 23, 1823, and another one on the back by William Allen dated August 30, 1823. Both poems were aimed at a juvenile audience. It is likely that their common interests and close proximity led them to develop a friendship. Although this was written towards the end of Barbauld's life, it is evidence that they still had at least an epistolary relationship in 1823.
Bates Worldwide advertising agency (Bates) was established in 1940 by former executives of the Benton & Bowles agency. It grew to become one of the largest agencies in the U.S. until its demise in 2003. Bates began as a simple proprietorship, but as the company grew its organizational structure took on different forms: a partnership, then a corporation before becoming a publicly traded transnational entity, and finally becoming a subsidiary in a global holding company. From the 1970s on, Bates' growth and international expansion was fueled by a long series of mergers, partnerships and acquisitions that continued until the company was itself acquired, first by the Saatchi & Saatchi and later by the WPP Group. Materials in the collection relate to Bates' permutations into a variety of corporate entities, including Ted Bates & Co., Ted Bates, Inc., Backer Spielvogel Bates, and Bates Worldwide, Inc., along with its subsidiaries (such as Campbell-Mithun and Kobs and Draft) and parent organizations (Cordiant Communications Group, Saatchi & Saatchi). Thus, the collection provides a window into the larger corporate culture of mergers, consolidations, acquisitions and takeovers that led to the formation of giant transnational advertising conglomerates and marked a profound shift in the landscape of the advertising industry during the late 20th century. The Bates Worldwide, Inc. Records spans the years 1934-2003 and includes correspondence, corporate policy manuals, photographs, publications, graphic designs, print advertisements, electronic records and videocassettes that document the activities of this major global advertising agency over the course of its corporate life. Bates built its early reputation as an advertising agency with a particular talent for promoting pharmaceutical products (Carter's Pills, Anacin analgesics) and common household goods (Mars candies, Wonder bread, Palmolive soap, Colgate dental cream). Advertising policies developed around a philosophy Bates called the Unique Selling Proposition (USP), which informed an imperative to identify and promote a single, unique and compelling reason for consumers to use any given product or service. As the company grew into a global business, USP evolved into more complex forms, including the Bates Brand Wheel. Major clients included Brown & Williamson Tobacco Co., Carter-Wallace Corporation, Hyundai America, the Joint Recruiting Advertising Program of the combined U.S. Armed Services, M&M/Mars Inc., Miller Brewing Company, Pfizer, the U.S. Navy and Wendy's International. There is also some information on the company's founder, Ted Bates, as well as on Rosser Reeves, Bates' first copy writer and the chief architect of the USP concept.
Raymond C. Battalio (1938-2004) and John B. Van Huyck (1956-2014) worked together as professors of economics at Texas A&M University. This collection primarily documents their professional lives through their correspondence, writings, research (especially experiments), and professional and faculty activities. It was acquired as part of the Economists' Papers Archive.
Collection comprises 25 black-and-white and 48 color photographs taken from 2001 to 2012 by Marion Belanger, documenting the intersection of natural and human-built environments. Belanger's series "Everglades," taken in Florida between 2001-2004, presents images of wildlife and natural landscapes affected by the impacts of tourism, agriculture, migrant worker housing, construction, and activities of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the U.S. Army. Her portfolio "Rift/Fault," shot between 2006-2012, documents zones in California and Iceland where the San Andreas Fault and the Mid-Atlantic Rift exist - visibly or invisibly - alongside human environments; subjects in this series include housing developments, monitoring stations, geologic features and landscapes, coastal roads, and geothermal structures such as greenhouses. The digital inkjet prints in both series measure 13 or 13 1/2 x16 inches. Both projects were published as photobooks (2009 and 2012, respectively). Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
Outdoor advertising executive with Southern Outdoor Markets and Associates of the Bell Company firms, based in Atlanta, Ga. Collection includes trade publications, awards booklets, reprints and other printed materials, slides, photographs, audiocassettes and 35mm films. Companies represented include the Associates of the Bell Company; Foote Cone & Belding; Foster & Kleiser; Institute of Outdoor Advertising; Outdoor Advertising Association of America; Outdoor Advertising Incorporated; Southern Outdoor Markets. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
William Bell was a photographer from Philadelphia. He was employed in 1872 by the U.S. Geographical and Geological Explorations and Surveys West of the 100th Meridian, a United States Army survey team. Collection includes sixteen gold-toned albumen prints, printed from negatives made by William Bell on the Wheeler Expedition of 1872. Fourteen photographs are from Arizona, two from Utah. Primary subjects include landscapes of the Grand Canyon and Colorado River. Some of Bell's photographs from this expedition were used for prints in George M. Wheeler's Report Upon United States Geographical Surveys West of the One Hundredth Meridian... (Washington: GPO, 1875-1889). In the field Bell prepared his own dry-plate negatives, a photographic process somewhat uncharacteristic for his time. he This process allowed him to store prepared plates longer than his contemporaries, who used wet plates, but would have also increased the exposure times for his plates.
Printed materials including reports, event programs, newsletters, and brochures published by the Beloved Community Center between 2002-2013. Topics include local governance, the Greensboro Truth and Reconciliation Commission, and the Greensboro Police Department. Acquired as part of the John Hope Franklin Research Center for African and African American History and Culture.
Bryant Bennett was a merchant and planter residing in Williamston, North Carolina (in Martin County). This collection contains correspondence and papers of Bryant Bennett and of his family. Included are mercantile accounts of the firms of Bennett and Hyman in Williamston, N.C. and of Bennett and Price in Hamilton (both places in Martin County), school letters from a normal school in Oxford, North Carolina, deeds, promissory notes, receipts for land sold for taxes, plantation account books containing household and farm accounts, lists of slaves and supplies issued to them, business records dealing with the marketing of cotton at Norfolk, Virginia, agricultural treatises by one S. W. Outterbridge of Martin County, and letters to Bennett after he had moved to Plymouth, North Carolina, in 1869.
Beth El Synagogue is a Jewish congregation in Durham, N.C. The collection consists of organizational records for Beth El Synagogue including records related to the synagogue's governance, general membership, the Beth El Sisterhood, the Beth El Preschool, synagogue buildings, and other topics. Materials include committee reports; financial reports; correspondence; printed material, including Books of Life, programs from services, newsletters, and other publications about Jewish history; documentation about the operations of Beth-El Preschool; legal papers; financial papers; photographs of the synagogue, congregation, and programs; and subject files documenting changes in the synagogue's constitutions, construction of new synagogue buildings in 1921 and 1957, dedication services, and the careers of rabbis.
Blackman Company was an advertising company founded in 1908 by Oscar H. Blackman and Frank Hermes. Became Compton Advertising in 1937. Collection comprises a series of 30 memoranda written by company staff. Training topics address various aspects of the marketing process, as well as advertising for regional or specialized consumer markets, including the "modern woman."
Collection contains primarily correspondence and printed materials. There are also three unidentified and undated black-and-white photographs, along with a few items representing the Livingston family, including a genealogy developed by Helen Thomas Blackwell. The correspondence contains mostly routine letters to Blackwell family members from other family members; including Alice Stone Blackwell, Anna M. Blackwell, Elizabeth Blackwell, Emma Blackwell, Helen Blackwell, Henry B. Blackwell, and Lucy Stone. There are also several postcards mailed to the Woman's Journal regarding subscriptions, address changes and other matters related to publication, or the editor's business acquaintances. There are several printed materials written by Blackwell authors, including "Philosophy of Re-Incarnation" by Anna Blackwell, and "Medicine & Morality," "Scientific Method in Biology," and “Erroneous Method in Medical Education" by Elizabeth Blackwell. However, the series primarily features printed items that were maintained in the Blackwell family library. Also contains a corrected typescript (1940s) of Ishbel Ross' Life of Elizabeth Blackwell along with notes from 1958 on the Elizabeth Blackwell award at Smith College.
Advertising executive who worked for the Ogilvy & Mather agency in New York and London. Collection includes correspondence, financial and research reports, client and new business presentations, speeches, policy manuals, booklets and other printed materials, as well as videocassettes and print advertisements that document Blaney's work in client services, staff training and general management at Ogilvy & Mather. Companies represented include American Express, Chesebrough-Pond's, Nestle, Procter & Gamble, Shell, SmithKline Beecham and Unilever. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Leo Bogart was an applied sociologist and mass media expert who was Vice President and General Manager of the Newspaper Advertising Bureau (NAB) from 1960-1989. In his career with the NAB, Bogart pioneered new methodologies in newspaper marketing research and led two major projects during the mid 1970s-1989 to bolster the ailing newspaper industry, the Newspaper Readership Project and the Future of Advertising Project. He was also a prolific author and public speaker, and published 195 articles and 14 books, and delivered over 150 speeches from 1943-2005. The Leo Bogart Papers span the years 1912-2010 and document Bogart's professional work with the Newspaper Advertising Bureau; as a mass media expert; and as an author and public speaker. The collection includes correspondence, clippings, articles, speeches, books, journals, chapters, drafts, proposals, notes, reports, scrapbooks, resumes, interviews, schedules, programs, pamphlets, administrative records, research materials, publications, promotional materials, ephemera, yearbooks, student papers, military records, photographs, negatives, and slides. Materials represent Bogart's professional work as Vice President and General Manager of the Newspaper Advertising Bureau, as well as his early employment with Standard Oil (New Jersey), McCann-Erickson, and Revlon, Inc.; as a prolific author and public speaker; as a Senior Fellow with the Gannett Center for Media Studies at Columbia University; and as a mass media consultant with the Innovation International Media Consulting Group. The bulk of files relate to research on U.S. markets, although some files do cover international research projects. Topics include newspaper marketing research; newspaper readership; newspaper advertising; television and society; critiques of mass media; social science research methodology; and international newspapers in emerging markets. The collection also documents Bogart's early experiences as a student and as a soldier in the U.S. Army Signal Corps during World War II, which formed the basis for several of his writing projects.
Collection consists of two large cloth-bound photograph albums dating from circa 1881, housing 56 large albumen photographs taken by noted 19th century French photographer Félix Bonfils, who owned the Bonfils studio, and his Syrian assistant Georges Saboungi. The images were sold as souvenirs, and portray cities and towns, landscapes, ruins, monuments, tombs, and other religious and historic sites of Palestine, in areas now occupied by Israel, Lebanon, and Syria. Locations named in the captions include Beirut, Bethlehem, Cana, Damascus, Galilee, the Holy Sepulchre shrine, Jaffa, Jerusalem, the Mosque of Omar at the Dome of Rock, the Mount of Olives, Mount Tabor, Nazareth, Samaria, the Tomb of David, the Wailing Wall, the interior of the house of the English Consul in Damascus, a "crusader's tower" in the village of Ramleh, and various other sites.
Maud Ballington Booth was the founder, with her husband, of the Volunteers of America in 1896 and its auxiliary, the Volunteer Prison League. Collection comprises two letters and small handbill.
English physician and chemist. Letters from Bostock to Marcet, two letters from Marcet to Bostock, and a typed transcription of a few paragraphs from letters from 1816. The letters touch upon matters personal (e.g. Bostock's move from Liverpool to London) and professional. Includes references to many contemporary European physicians and scientists. Documents the typical research and administrative opportunities available to a British medical practitioner of the early nineteenth century. Forms part of the Trent Manuscripts and was acquired as part of the History of Medicine Collections at Duke University.
African-American graphic artist, professor and advertising executive based primarily in California; principal in the firm Archie Boston Graphic Design. Collection includes print materials, posters, sketches, greeting cards, correspondence, as well as audiovisual materials in multiple formats (DVDs, tape reels, and film reels) that document Boston's career in advertising and graphic design as well as his academic life at California State University-Long Beach. Companies represented include California Plum, Raisin and Apple Advisory Boards, FMC, Motorola, Pentel, Raytheon and Yamaha. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Photographer Margaret Bourke-White writes to comic book editor Mort Weisinger commenting that she likes a story and that "it ought to be swell with the cartoons." The note likely refers to a comic book about Bourke-White published in 1947.
Author and scholar of religion and African American studies. Collection includes Boykin's drafts and published writings on religion, African American history, imperialism, and AIDS. Also contains a small amount of books from his personal library, diplomas and other personal papers, and unidentified microfilm reels.
Eleanor Vere Boyle (1825-1916) was an British artist of the Victorian era whose work consisted mainly of watercolor illustrations in children's books. Collection comprises an autograph letter, signed E. V. B., written by Boyle to Mr. [L?]awley on May 11, regarding payment for wine glasses and his portrait in the Pall Mall Magazine.
Carol Georgette Lake Bradley (1922-2006) was a distinguished graduate of Duke University, class of 1943. Collection consists of ten handwritten spiral-bound volumes containing her memoirs, in which she describes in detail her childhood, school years, World War II, experiences at Duke University, marriage, motherhood, and teaching career. Includes a narrative on the death of one of her children from polycystic kidney disease. Filed inside the volumes are letters, photographs, clippings, programs, and other memorabilia. Related materials, created by Bradley's family, comprise transcriptions, printed digital scans of the pages, and over 2500 electronic files, chiefly photographic images and texts such as transcriptions and indexes. Acquired as part of the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture at Duke University.
Women's rights activist. Correspondence, memoranda, minutes, reports, speeches and writings, newsletters, financial reports, pamphlets, clippings, flyers, and printed materials, primarily focusing on women's organizations in which Mrs. Bradley held leadership positions. The majority of the materials pertain to the League of Women Voters of the United States, particularly as they relate to her chairing its Foreign Policy Committee. The collection also documents efforts to pass the Equal Rights Amendment through the North Carolina State Legislature in the 1970s. Other organizations highlighted are the U.S. National Commission for UNESCO, the Women's Equity Action League of North Carolina, and the Women's Forum of North Carolina. Also includes copies of the LEAGUE OF WOMEN VOTERS, (DURHAM, N.C.) BULLETIN. A common goal which runs through many of the papers was her effort to improve the condition of women legally, economically, and politically.
Herbert Clarence Bradshaw (1908-1976) was a white American author, historian, and journalist. This collection documents his personal and professional life through his subject files, which include a great deal of correspondence. A retired editor of the Durham Morning Herald, he was murdered in his home during a series of random shootings in Durham by a single individual in December 1976.
Methodist minister, active in southern Virginia in the early twentieth century. Collection of 74 unpublished typewritten sermons and texts for prayer meetings assembled by a Methodist minister active in Virginia in the early twentieth century. Although no author's name is given, from church appointment records it is almost certain that the minister is John Luke Bray (1871-1938). The sermons were given from 1907 to 1938 in localities in southern Virginia (almost all in Danville, Crewe, South Boston, Richmond, and Norfolk); the earliest sermon was given in Shawnee, Oklahoma. At times the minister may have been using churches that offered space to other denominations. The sermon notes, typed in red and black and typically two to four pages, document the typical style of Methodist preaching in the South and sometimes refer to social or economic issues. Each envelope enclosing the sermon text is marked with the title and when and where preached; most have multiple dates and locations. There are also a few miscellaneous items, including newspaper clippings, handwritten notes, and one leaf with an undated hymn with words by A. W. Davis, entitled "Over the Top With Jesus," dedicated to a "Rev. D. H. Kenney." Some fragile items have been photocopied. Arranged in two series: Prayer Meetings and Sermons.
Lydia L. Brennan ran a photographic business, the Elite Studio in Butte, Montana, until December 1896, when she sold the business to J. W. Nelson. Brennan married John N. Kirk, a Butte lawyer. Collection comprises two autograph, signed letters Lydia L. Brennan wrote to the Holter Hardware Company in Helena, Montana, on July 1 and October 3, 1896, to place orders for photographic supplies, particularly American Aristo Platino papers.
Bromo-Seltzer was an analgesic patented by Isaac Emerson of Baltimore, Md. in 1888. Booklet was part of World War II-era cooperation with the War Advertising Council and depicts the insignia and some history of U.S. military awards and decoration. Booklet also promotes War Bonds (precursor to Savings Bonds) on back cover as well as advertising Bromo-Seltzer. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Professor of Education at Trinity College, Durham NC. Collection chiefly is composed of letters, educational reports, numerous writings and addresses, and various professional papers, all relating to tobacco relief, education, and agriculture in North Carolina. Specific topics cover the Department of Education of what was then known as Trinity College in Durham, N.C.; the history of North Carolina, from an unpublished draft; and the matter of education for rural populations in N.C. and elsewhere. Materials include a microfilm of Brooks' papers held by the Department of Archives and History in Raleigh, N.C.; telegrams; extensive manuscripts for unpublished works, lecture notes, an address by Supt. Benjamin Lee Smith of Greensboro Public Schools. Other items in the collection include a scrapbook; cards from Brooks to his wife from abroad; original poems written by Brooks; photographs; memorabilia; an itinerary of his trip with other agricultural experts to Europe; a contract in manuscript drawn up in 1774 between citizens of Mecklenburg Co. and John Patterson, a school teacher, who was engaged to teach there; a printed document concerning Judge Walter Clark; and other miscellaneous items. There is also a printed copy of the diary of Dr. J. F. Shaffner, Sr. and blueprints of the N.C. State Fairgrounds.
Earl Ivan Brown, civil engineer with the United States Army Corps of Engineers; served in Philippines and Cuba during the Spanish-American War; 92nd Division Engineer in the American Expeditionary Forces; developed river and harbor improvements in the United States, principally on the Atlantic and Gulf coasts and on the Ohio River, including the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal. Collection includes correspondence, genealogical materials, notebooks, legal papers, and other collected papers of Earl Ivan Brown, a civil engineer with the Army Corps of Engineers, 1900s-1930s. Materials document Brown's career developing river and harbor improvements on the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts as well as his work on the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal.
English professor, Duke University, folklorist of Durham, N.C., and founder in 1913 of the North Carolina Folklore Society. Collection centers around Frank Clyde Brown's lifelong exploration and collecting of North Carolina and Appalachian folklore, which resulted in this vast archival collection of original folklore materials and editorial records for the seven-volume Frank C. Brown Collection of North Carolina Folklore (published 1952-1964). Collection is comprised of field recordings on wax cylinders and phonodiscs; tens of thousands of field notes, transcriptions of original songs, stories, and traditional expressions; musical scores; and numerous journal articles, student theses, books, and lists. Also included are the papers of Charles Bond, a Duke graduate student who studied and expanded the collection in 1970. The vast majority of the folklore sources originated in North Carolina, but there are some materials from other regions. Subjects include: African American traditions; ballads and songs (music as well as lyrics); European roots of North American folklore; folk music; folk poetry; games and parties; oral traditions and storytelling; sayings, names, and superstitions; social conditions in the Southern States; work songs; and North American folklore in general. In addition, one can find rich resources on the study and teaching of folklore, and attitudes during the 1920s to 1950s about Southern customs and communities.
Lawyer, superior court judge, associate justice of North Carolina Supreme Court, active in Washington (Beaufort Co.), N.C. Professional correspondence, indentures, deeds, wills, receipts, a memorandum book, and other papers, mainly dating from 1850-1878 and largely relating to George Hubbard Brown, an attorney from Washington, N.C., and his legal practice, and to his service as associate justice of the North Carolina Supreme Court. There is a small amount of correspondence, among which are letters from John Humphrey Small, U.S. Representative from North Carolina.
Leslie Brown was a Professor of History at Williams College, Williamstown, MA. She was born in 1954 and died in 2016. The Leslie Brown papers span the years 1936-2016 and undated and cover her entire career as a historian, from her doctoral training to her final position at Williams College. There is also extensive information regarding her professional interest in African-American history and the preparation of oral histories. Acquired as part of the John Hope Franklin Research Center for African and African American History and Culture.
Born in Union, Maine, John Emory Bryant (1836-1900) was an abolitionist, teacher, Union officer with the 8th Maine Volunteers, agent of the Freedmen's Bureau, newspaper editor and publisher, lawyer, and Republican politician in Georgia. The collection includes letters, journals, scrapbooks, writings, speeches, and printed materials related to the lives of John Emory Bryant (JEB), his wife Emma Spaulding Bryant, their daughter Emma Alice Zeller and her husband Julius Zeller and their descendants, and William Anderson Pledger who was a Republican contemporary of JEB. The bulk of the collection falls into four main divisions: the early years in Maine (1851-1860), during the American-Civil War (1861-1865), during Reconstruction in Georgia, and the later years in New York (1888-1900). Some of the materials are not original and are copies or typescripts. Of note are materials regarding Georgian Republican politics; conditions for Radical Republicans and African-Americans during Reconstruction, including correspondence with Henry McNeal Turner; historical views about the differences between the North and the South; Ku Klux Klan activity in Georgia, Florida, and Alabama; and a particularly passionate exchange between Emma Spaulding Bryant and her husband regarding her visits to a doctor about "uterine difficulties" (these 10 letters from Emma Bryant have been digitized and are available online).
John Buck was an American, most likely a resident of the New York metropolitan area. The collection consists of a diary in four volumes that chronicles the vacation in Great Britain of a young American named John Buck from August 10 to September 25, 1887. The volumes comprise 249 handwritten pages in total, with commercial prints, menus, receipts, and theater playbills attached to the back of selected pages. The script is elaborate, but legible, and the narrative is remarkably descriptive. Humorous sketches illustrate the first volume in particular and the third volume includes three photographs of the author. The diary provides a detailed account of Buck's voyage on the R.M.S. Britannic and his time in London, where he spent the majority of his vacation socializing and attending the theater. Buck also stayed in Edinburgh, Scotland, with Henry Irving, the famous actor and manager of the Lyceum Theatre, and with the Duke and Duchess of Beaufort at Badminton House.
Armistead Burt (1802-1883) was a planter, lawyer, and U.S. Representative from Abbeville, S.C. Collection contains political and legal correspondence of Armistead Burt (1802-1883), South Carolina planter and member of U.S. Congress. The political correspondence deals largely with the policies of John C. Calhoun and the question of secession. After 1860 the material relates chiefly to Burt's law practice, especially to the management of estates of Confederate soldiers, and the Calhoun estate. Other matters referred to include the political corruption and economic conditions in postwar South Carolina. Among the correspondents are Armistead Burt, Pierce M. Butler, Henry Toole Clark, Thomas Green Clemson, T. L. Deveaux, James H. Hammond, A. P. Hayne, Reverdy Johnson, Hugh S. Legare, Augustus B. Longstreet, W. N. Meriwether, James L. Petigru, Francis W. Pickens, Robert Barnwell Rhett, Richard Rush, Waddy Thompson, and Louis T. Wigfall.
May Byron was a prolific British author best known for her children's books including a series of biographies and abridgements of J. M. Barrie's Peter Pan. In this letter, she responds to Rev. Edwin J. Matthews' request for the most important life lesson she's learned and for a list of her publications. Byron responds that she couldn't possibly sum up her life's experiences into one lesson, and that she can't provide a list of her publications because she's lost track of them. She does note that most of her children's books are still in print and have "been going on selling for some 20 years."
The John William Cain Papers are predominantly comprised of photographs, but also contain his naval records, certificates of achievement, a small amount of correspondence, and travel memorabilia.
Collection comprises a phrenological profile (9 leaves, bound with a clip) John Capen prepared for Lydia Mather, touching on her constitution, temperament, character and her social preferences. He notes that she is in "danger of overworking" and has a strong domestic tendency; is cautious and sensitive, but not demonstrative; and has a good intellect, which is balanced by prudence and practicality that would make her an excellent businesswoman, if her life demanded it. He adds that she is conservative but not a bigot, has an excellent ear for music, and avoids attracting attention at all costs. The back of the cover holds an advertisement for Capen's business.
Lawyer of Charleston (Charleston Co.), S.C. Represented the county for two terms in the state's general assembly; member of the Confederate Army's German Artillery; and member of the Charleston City Council under T.T. Hyde. Also, officer in the National German American Alliance and active in the United Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in the South. Married Julia Pieper in 1882. Collection primarily comprises printed material related to John D. Cappelmann's numerous activities. Includes advertisements, church bulletins, invitations, tickets, and programs for balls, orations, literary society meetings, concerts, dances, baccalaureate exercises, recitals, and bicycle races. In addition, there are notices for events and general orders concerning the German Artillery, as well as information on other Confederate memorial events. There are also drafts of legislation for the General Assembly; copies of Charleston City Council minutes, local election campaign materials, bank organizing documents, as well as annual reports and other records regarding the Carolina Mutual Insurance Company, Parker Cotton Mills Company, and the Georgia State Building & Loan Association of Savannah. Charleston organizations represented include the Star Gospel Mission, and The Knights of Pythias; other organizations represented include the YMCA and the German University League. Topics of interest include the peace movement during World War I; the anti-German and anti-German American sentiment of the period; Lutheranism in the early twentieth-century South, especially regarding the Sunday School movement. The collection contains only a few personal letters written to Cappelmann; the majority of letters to him contain solicitations for monetary support, mostly to benefit various local and national Lutheran entities. A few items reference Cappelmann's children, John D., F. William, E. Henry, and Gertrude. Contains several items published in German, as well as a folder of biographical information. Several items postdate Cappelmann's death, and their immediate connection to the collection is unclear.
Materials from (or related to) the migration by sea of Cubans, Dominicans, and Haitians, including the refugee camp for Cuban and Haitian rafters that existed in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, largely dating from 1991-1996. Collection includes camp newspapers and artwork created by refugees held at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba; materials from the U.S. Coast Guard and other military sources, such as newspapers written in Haitian Creole, photocopies of camp rules and refugee intake procedures, and a transcript from an introductory video shown to refugees arriving at the camps; magazines and media coverage of refugee situations, including some material on Elián González; photographs and slides of refugees, Coast Guard personnel, and conditions in the camps in Cuba. Refugees arriving in Miami are included as are photographs of the work of the Guantanámo Refugee Assistance and Services Program in Miami and in the camps in Guantánamo Bay.
Edmund John Catrow was a marine who served in the following units during World War II. Collection primarily comprises a photograph album, entitled "The Occupation of Japan: Nagasaki, Isahaya, Kumamoto, Sasebo," Catrow maintained during his service in the marines from 1945-1946. There are 277 black-and-white photographs, mostly 3 1/4 x 4 1/2 inches, plus five Japanese newspapers and several other clippings. Many of the photographs have handwritten captions in white ink. 
The records of the documentary project Indivisible: Stories of American Community span the dates 1988-2002. Through documentary photographs and oral histories, project records, videos, and other materials, the collection documents the social conditions in twelve American communities as well as the history of the project, which explored civil activism, struggle, and change in the following locations: the North Pacific Coast of Alaska; Ithaca, N.Y.; San Francisco, California; Navajo Nation, Arizona and New Mexico; Eau Claire, South Carolina; Delray Beach, Florida; Western North Carolina; Stony Brook, N.Y.; San Juan, Texas; Chicago, Illinois; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and the Yaak Valley, Montana. The photographers are Dawoud Bey, Bill Burke, Debbie Fleming Caffery, Lucy Capehart, Lynn Davis, Terry Evans, Lauren Greenfield, Joan Liftin, Reagan Louie, Danny Lyon, Sylvia Plachy, and Eli Reed. The project was sponsored by the Center for Documentary Studies of Duke University and the Center for Creative Photography at the University of Arizona, and co-directed by Tom Rankin and Trudi Stack. Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
The U.S. Census Bureau conducts a nationwide census every 10 years. Census 2000 sought to count and classify a record number of the American population, emphasizing the changing demographics of the country. This collection was donated to the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising, & Marketing History by Sybil F. Stershic, a member of the Census Advisory Committee of Professional Associations for Census 2000. The collection includes a Census 2000 advertising binder, several informational and promotional posters, a partnership informational kit, and two special reports. There are also two VHS tapes with advertisements from the Census 2000 campaign. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising, & Marketing History.
Manufacturer of private aircraft founded in 1911 in Wichita, Kan., Collection comprises handouts of the aircraft sales training presentation that used an analogy to a football game to organize the information. Includes pages for the attendee's notes, as well as charts, graphs, financial information, and quizzes. Divided into sections: prospecting, consultant, interviewing, salesmanship, proposals, demonstrating, and scoring.
G. Hope Summerell Chamberlain was an author, artist, and civic worker, of Raleigh (Wake Co.) and Chapel Hill (Orange Co.), N.C. Letters from 1821 to 1946 concern family matters for the most part but also reflect Chamberlain's career as an author of local history and her work at Duke University as the house counselor of Pegram House. Scattered earlier letters include one from Herbert J. Hagermand of the American Embassy at Saint Petersburg, 1889; letters on the Russo-Japanese War, 1905; and letters from John Spencer Bassett, 1903. The remainder of the collection includes genealogical material on the Chamberlain family; clippings of articles about Chamberlain and her books; drafts of some of her writings; a copy of a journal of a trip to Europe in 1792-1793; diary of Chamberlain's trip to Europe in 1929; and personal diaries, 1923-1926 and 1943.
King Charles II of England (1630-1685) did not have any official heirs. He did, though, have many children by a number of mistresses. For the children born to these other women that the King acknowledged, most were given titles of nobility within a few years of their birth (along with most of their mothers). The names of seven of these children appear in this collection. This collection contains royal warrants or decrees issued during the reign of King Charles II of England. Of the seven documents, four are written on behalf of the King, two are 'certification of armes' the remaining item is a listing of possible heraldic figures. The names listed in the warrants are sons and daughters of the King and three of his mistresses.
Audio interviews and programs recorded by Charles E. Cobb, Jr., from 2012 to 2014, with members of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC) and others around the 50th anniversary of Freedom Summer and for research for Cobb's book, THIS NONVIOLENT STUFF'LL GET YOU KILLED: HOW GUNS MADE THE CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT POSSIBLE.
The photographs of Cedric N. Chatterley span the years 1983-2013, and were created throughout his career as a documentary photographer, beginning with his MFA thesis project on religious experience in the U.S. The photographs are primarily black-and-white prints ranging in size from 8x10 to 18x24 inches. The most prominent themes in Chatterley's work are labor, community, and religious expression. He has photographed chicken slaughterhouse workers in Maine; Cambodian immigrants in North Carolina; David "Honeyboy" Edwards and other Southern blues musicians in Mississippi and on tour; a substance abusers' rehabilitation community in Durham, N.C.; tornado survivors in South Dakota; an abandoned religious theme park in Connecticut; and sheep rancher Judith Fae "Pachy" Burns in Montana. Some of his documentary work also includes oral history interviews. There are also several recordings of interviews with Chatterley, where he speaks about his work as a documentary photographer, and a book by Barbara Lau containing his photographs of Cambodian immigrants. Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University. 
The papers of Phyllis Chesler are divided into the following series: Writings, Custody Speakout Project, Women and Health Organizations, and Personal and Professional Papers. Chesler's Writings are separated into subseries by titles of her published works, and comprise the bulk of the collection. These papers include research files, interviews, and chapter drafts for her books Women and Madness; Women, Money and Power; About Men; Mothers on Trial; and Sacred Bond. The detailed research files in the Writings Series also contain audio tapes and selected transcripts of interviews conducted by Chesler in conjunction with her research on women and mental health, women's history, child custody (particularly the "Baby M" case involving the lawsuit between Mary Beth Whitehead and William Stern and baby Melissa Stern), and feminist concerns. The Writings Series includes Chesler's miscellaneous writings and provides insight into her personal and professional life through correspondence, manuscripts and notes surrounding each work as well as clippings and records documenting her feminist activism. Among the major correspondents are Carolyn Shaw Bell, Sheila Kaplan, Kate Millet, Tillie Olsen, Grace Paley, Adrienne Rich, Donna Shalala, Susan Sontag, and Gloria Steinem.
Lydia Maria Child was a prominent American abolitionist. The Lydia Maria Child letters consist of two letters written by Child, the first to artist William Tolman Carlton, and the second to a Miss. Howland. The first letter concerns Carlton's well-known painting "Waiting for the Hour," and references the writer and fellow abolitionist John Greenleaf Whittier. The second letter replies to a query about the German writer Bettina Von Arnim.
Produced mostly by the Central Newsreel and Documentary Film Studio of China. The material was found in a cinema company office in Henan province, China. Collection of film advertisements and transcripts of Chinese documentary films and newsreels that spans the years 1946 to 1985; bulk of items are transcripts for documentary films and newsreels from the Cultural Revolution, 1966-1976. Dating of the 1946 item is questionable. All documents are in Chinese. Arranged into the following series: Advertisements and Film Description Series; Documentary and Newsreel Scripts Series; Feature Filmscripts Series; and Newspaper Clipping Scrapbook Series. Topics include industry, agriculture, the economy, military matters, education, public health care, medicine and science, as well as political movements, foreign relations, cultural and sporting events. Collection also contains a group of printed advertisements and other publicity for Chinese and foreign films, plays, opera, and local performances. Finally, collection includes 8 master microfilm reels for the collection.
Merchant, of Weldon (Halifax Co.), N.C. Records and business correspondence of a general merchant of Weldon, N.C., together with daybooks (1880-1918) and ledgers (1878). Also includes a letter from Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Va., concerning a son in college; and a letter from an instructor at Oak Ridge Military Institute, Guilford Co., N.C. (1917).
Robert Clower (1926-2011) was the Hugh C. Lane Professor of Economic Theory, Emeritus at the University of South Carolina. This collection primarily documents his professional life through his correspondence, writings, research, teaching, and professional activities. It forms part of the Economists' Papers Archive.
Professor of Theater Studies and English at Duke University. Collection contains playbills and programs for theatrical productions, operas, and ballets from the United States and abroad.
Lara Langer Cohen is an Assistant Professor in the Department of English at Wayne State University in Detroit, Michigan. She started collecting zines, including trading zines and corresponding with Sarah Dyer, in the early 1990s. The collection consists of approximately 280 zine titles (some with multiple issues) collected by Cohen and several hundred pieces of correspondence addressed to her or to her zines, Runt and Oh Oh Cheri, dating from the 1990s. Acquired by the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture.
Employee of the Lepetkatta Tea Co., Ltd., in Barbaru, Assam, India. Cole signed his letters "Johnson." Collection comprises weekly letters Johnson wrote to his parents in England while he served as an engineer for a tea estate, and provides commentary written from a late-colonial perspective. There is information regarding the management of the tea estate, tea manufacture, tea prices and trade, and the transformation of work processes and personal lives by mechanization, the introduction of electricity, and brick making. In addition, Johnson wrote about local customs, labor, wildlife, weather, religious festivals, disease outbreaks (esp. cholera), and Indian politics. He also wrote about various engine repairs he undertook; transportation; his favorite pastimes (including hunting and playing polo); his various horses and pets; medical and dental treatments; people he met; as well as his activities in the volunteer British military guard, where he participated in military tests, drills, and sports, and served as Farrier Sergeant. His final letters contained extensive commentary on England's role in World War I, as well as the impact of the war on Assam. Includes a few postcards, one photograph, a clipping, and a tea invoice. There is also one undated letter written to Johnson by a native missionary who requested assistance.
Carl V. Corley (1921-2016) was a white novelist and illustrator who served in the Marines during World War II. Collections contains the writings, drawings, scrapbooks, notebooks, correspondence, and published materials that document Corley's career and artistic output of Corley. The collection also includes typescripts and manuscripts of published and unpublished works of gay fiction, southern history, and heterosexual and homosexual erotica, some of which is in the form of comic books or graphic novels. The Sabina Allred Allen Collection of Carl Corley Papers includes correspondence and illustrations from Corley.
Retired Chief of the Gastrointestinal Clinic at Mount Sinai Hospital. 
Salem (Essex Co.), Mass., writer and photographer, specializing in colonial American architecture. Collection contains photographs that Cousins made; the vast majority of them were taken of Salem, Mass. They are albumen prints, most in good or excellent condition. The subjects are primarily houses, churches, and public buildings of Salem, exterior and interior shots.
Courtland Cox (1941- ) is an African American civil rights activist, former member of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, and a co-founder of the Drum and Spear Bookstore in Washington, D.C. His papers consist of materials related to the Drum and Spear Bookstore and associated organizations, folders related to his tenure as the Secretary General of the Sixth Pan-African Congress in Tanzania, as well as subject files on the civil rights movement in the South during the 1960s. Includes some photographs of events, a photograph album beloning to Cox, and a group of audiocassette recordings as well as electronic records.
Collection contains diaries of Martha (Foster) Crawford as a young woman in Alabama, 1845-1851, and later as a Baptist missionary to China. Topics include conditions in Shanghai from 1852 to 1864 and afterwards at Tengchow, Shantung, and her reactions to the Civil War in the United States. Her diary shows the impact of the American Protestant missionary on China with a day-by-day record of her life. The Shanghai period covers the Taiping rebellion and discusses the hope that the rebellion might furnish a means for converting the Empire to Christianity. Included also are several printed pamphlets and an original manuscript history of missions in China.
Consumer Reports is a product testing and consumer advocacy nonprofit organization based in Yonkers, N.Y., founded in 1936. Helen Gertrude Canoyer was an author, home economist and educator who served as Dean of the Home Economics colleges at Cornell University and the University of Massachusetts. The Helen Canoyer papers include correspondence, clippings, news releases, lecture notes, texts to speeches and articles and other printed materials. An audio tape contains an interview of Canoyer. Much of the materials pertain to Canoyer's work with the Consumer Advisory Council, its administration and its efforts to advocate for consumer protection, consumer education and home economics. Other materials pertain to conferences, personal and professional correspondence, and writings. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Consumer Reports is a product testing and consumer advocacy nonprofit organization based in Yonkers, N.Y., founded in 1936. Abraham J. Isserman was a labor lawyer, counsel to the American Civil Liberties Union during the 1930s, and one of the original members of the Board of Directors of Consumers Union. The Consumer Reports A.J. Isserman papers includes correspondence, clippings, court briefs and depositions, book manuscript drafts, photographs and other printed materials relating to Isserman's work in civil rights and labor law. Topics include labor union activities and strikes, civil liberties, communist influence, investigations into Un-American activities, deportation, and disbarment of lawyers. Persons and institutions reflected in the collection include the American Civil Liberties Union of New Jersey, the Dies Committee, Judge Harold Medina, and Leinhard Bergel. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
This collection contains family and political correspondence, scrapbooks, a letter book, and speeches related to John J. Crittenden's service as a Kentucky legislator and governor, as a member of both houses of Congress, and as a Cabinet officer. The papers contain information on the political life and public issues in Kentucky and the nation during the antebellum period, with significant material concerning Crittenden's efforts to avert the Civil War by means of a compromise plan in 1861. Other papers pertain to the private life of the family, and to the publication of "The Life of John J. Crittenden," by his daughter, Mary Ann Butler Crittenden Coleman (1871). The collection also includes unpublished papers from Thomas Hart Benton, James Buchanan, William Butler, Henry Clay, Millard Fillmore, Andrew Jackson, James Madison, John Marshall, James Monroe, Franklin Pierce, Winfield Scott, William H. Seward, Alexander H. Stephens, Benjamin Taylor, Zachary Taylor, John Tyler, and Daniel Webster. 
Consumer Reports is a product testing and consumer advocacy nonprofit organization based in Yonkers, N.Y., founded in 1936. Sylvia Lane was an economist who served on the Board of Directors of Consumers Union 1975-1977. The Sylvia Lane papers consist primarily of drafts, notes, reprints and published reports of Lane's advocacy and professional research writings. Subjects include consumer education, credit and credit discrimination, economic development, food distribution, health and medical care costs, housing and real estate, low-income communities and individuals, and sales and other taxes. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Consumer Reports is a product testing and consumer advocacy nonprofit organization based in Yonkers, N.Y., founded in 1936. James E. Mendenhall was a home economist and magazine editor who served as Education Director of Consumers Union (1959-1969). The James Mendenhall scrapbook collects articles and writings by Mendenhall during and immediately after World War II. Articles appeared under the auspices of the U.S. Office of Price Administration, where Mendenhall served during the war years. Topics of articles include gasoline prices, home economics, housing costs, inflation, price regulation, retailer integrity, savings, teacher salaries, and other aspects of war-time and postwar recovery economies. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Consumer Reports is a product testing and consumer advocacy nonprofit organization based in Yonkers, N.Y., founded in 1936. Irving Michelson was a chemist who directed the Special Projects and Public Service Projects departments during the 1950s-1960s. The Irving Michelson papers include clippings, correspondence, reprints of articles, research data, questionnaires, reports and other printed materials. Topics include air pollution, cigarette testing, economics, nuclear radiation and fallout, packaging standards, and seat belt design and testing. Much of the research discussed in the papers was conducted in Connecticut. Organizations represented include the British Consumers Association, Consumers Union, International Organization of Consumers' Unions, and the U.S. Defense Department. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Consumer Reports is a product testing and consumer advocacy nonprofit organization based in Yonkers, N.Y., founded in 1936. The National Association of Consumers was a consumer advocacy and lobbying organization founded in 1946 and active until around 1957-1958. The National Association of Consumers records include correspondence, drafts and notes for articles and speeches, meeting minutes, membership lists, bylaws and other printed materials that primarily document the administrative life of the organization. Included in the collection are correspondence and writings of Colston Warne and Helen Hall, and food safety projects relating to the pork and poultry industry, including Trichinosis. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Consumer Reports is a product testing and consumer advocacy nonprofit organization based in Yonkers, N.Y., founded in 1936. Eileen Nic was a consultant to Consumer Reports on health and environmental issues and an advocate for hazardous chemical and pesticide control. The Consumer Reports Eileen Nic papers include Correspondence, project proposals, research reports and other printed materials that relate to air pollution, chemical accidents, environmental policy, hazardous materials and pesticide use and regulation. Organizations and individuals represented in the collection include Ciba-Geigy, Esther Peterson, International Organization of Consumers' Unions (IOCU, later Consumers International) and Union Carbide (relating to the Bhopal chemical accident). Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Consumer Reports is a product testing and consumer advocacy nonprofit organization based in Yonkers, N.Y., founded in 1936. Edward Reich was an educator and consumer advocate who served as director of the New York City Board of Education's Consumer Education Office and as Board member (1943-1973), Vice President (1958-1961) and Treasurer (1961-1973) of Consumers Union. The Edward Reich papers consist of correspondence, bibliographies reports and teaching guides relating to Reich's service with the New York City Board of Education's consumer education program. Topics include establishing and organizing activities for consumer clubs; adult consumer education programs; and suggested resources for study. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Consumer Reports is a product testing and consumer advocacy nonprofit organization based in Yonkers, N.Y., founded in 1936. Frances Warne was an author, consumer advocate and instructor in home economics and consumer education; co-founder of Consumers Union. The Consumer Reports Frances Warne papers include clippings, correspondence, book manuscripts and drafts, course notes and other printed materials. The bulk of the collection pertains to "Wise Buymanship", a home economics and consumer education manual produced for the YWCA. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Consumer Reports is a product testing and consumer advocacy nonprofit organization based in Yonkers, N.Y., founded in 1936. The Washington Office opened in 1972 focused on representation of consumer interests before government institutions. Collection includes correspondence, status reports, position papers, statements and testimonies before Congressional committees and other government agencies, and other printed materials. Topics addressed include energy policy, food marketing and safety, product safety and other subjects relating to consumer protection. Institutions represented include the Center for Law and Social Policy, Consumer Product Safety Commission, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Originally designated Record Group 1LD in Consumers Union Archives. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Statesman, author, clergyman, diplomat, and educator, of Richmond, Va. Chiefly letters relating to Curry's career in education and diplomacy after the Civil War. Most of the letters were written by Curry to his son Manly Bowie Curry, giving him advice and discussing family matters and political and social questions. Includes two letter books covering the period of his envoyship to Spain and containing comments about Spanish customs and government. Also, a typewritten journal kept by M. B. Curry while serving with the United States Marine Corps in Nicaragua, 1930-1931.
Mark Danner is a writer, journalist, and professor at the University of California at Berkeley. His work covers politics and foreign affairs, with a focus on war and conflict. The Mark Danner Papers date from 1970 to 2004 and focus predominately on Danner's coverage of Haiti during the period of unrest that followed President Jean-Claude ("Baby Doc") Duvalier's exile in 1986. Additional materials document Danner's interest in the Balkan Wars during the 1990's and preliminary research on the El Mozote massacre in El Salvador. These materials include research notes, travel information, newspaper clippings, and VHS tapes.
Paul Davidson (born 1930) is the J. Fred Holly Chair of Excellence Emeritus at the University of Tennessee, Knoxville. This collection documents his professional life through his correspondence. It forms parts of the Economists' Papers Archive.
Griff Davis (1923-1993) was a photojournalist, diplomat, and film maker from Atlanta, Georgia. The collection contains photographic materials and papers related to three photo essays illustrated by Davis: one on African American writer Langston Hughes; another on artists Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston; and one on the Palmer Memorial Institute, a private preparatory school for African Americans in Sedalia, N.C. Films in the collection were taken by Davis and include two home movies and six color and black-and-white 16mm films documenting people, politics, and agricultural life in Liberia during William Tubman's presidency in the early 1950s. Completing the collection is a photo album, "Progress in Liberia, Nov. 1949-Feb. 1950," containing twenty large black-and-white photographs, assembled to promote a partnership between the government of Liberia and the Liberia Mining Company. Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
Duke University graduate and Methodist clergyman in N.C. Collection consists chiefly of papers documenting Dawson's studies at Duke University's Divinity School, and his professional life as a minister in the Methodist Church. Included are subject files; many sermon texts; correspondence; family history; appointment books; an account book; papers written by Dawson as a student in the Duke University Divinity School, including a B.D. thesis; and an ordination certificate. There is one file folder of legal papers and photographs documenting the Howland-Dawson Gardens Endowment for the Sarah P. Duke Gardens.
The NSF/CEME Decentralization Conference seminars are funded by a grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF) and administered through the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER). This collection includes materials relating to the planning and programming of the Decentralization Conferences during Roy Radner's tenure as coordinator. 
Collection comprises 4 scrapbook pages the Delannoy's compiled to document their lives during World War I. Includes a map of France with the front outlined, along with the Delannoy ration cards for sugar and gasoline, safe-passage documents for Paul and Jeanne (one set contains their black-and-white photographs), and insurance papers they signed recognizing the risk of war in areas they traveled. Three pieces of French paper money are attached to one page. The final page contains an undated poster from the Paris Chamber of Commerce regarding war loans. 
Official magazine of the Democratic National Committee, published monthly in Washington D.C. Its editors were Clayton Fritchey, Sam Brightman, and Philip M. Stern, with political cover art by Leo Hershfield. Collection contains editorial files of the Democratic Digest, dating from 1953-1961, with the contents of the files falling into three large categories: correspondence, editorial, and art files. The correspondence includes many letters from readers, critics, and Democratic Senators and Governors, chiefly in response to political issues of the day such as McCarthyism, corruption, civil rights, economics, labor, nuclear weapons, farm subsidies, party politics, and elections. Editorial files contain edited copy for articles and columns; TV and radio scripts, including speeches by Democratic candidates; and many clippings reprinted in the Digest. About a third of the collection consists of hundreds of pieces of original layout art, including political cartoons by Leo Hershfield and others, and a few photographs of political leaders such as Truman, Stevenson, and Johnson. Finally, a smaller group of printed materials published for the Democratic 1960 national campaign includes political leaflets, pamphlets, party platforms and position papers, a newsprint publication examining of the records of Nixon and Kennedy, and a few other items.
Collection comprised of 9 boxes of company records and 5 ledgers of organizational material of the Dismal Swamp Land Company, a shingle production company in existence between 1763-1879. Letter books, receipts spanning the entirety of the company's existence, and legal documents make up the bulk of the collection. 
Dorsey & Whitney LLP is a Minneapolis-based business law firm whose lawyers took on the pro bono cases of Bahraini detainees at the Guantánamo Bay detention center. The Dorsey & Whitney Records span the years 1997-2008, with the majority of the materials created between 2004 and 2008. The records consist largely of legal papers, news clippings, writings and correspondence regarding the cases of six Bahraini detainees: Jumah Al-Dossari, Abdullah Al-Nuaimi, Isa Al-Murbati, Salah Al-Balooshi, Adel Hajji and Salman bin Ibrahim Al-Khalifa, kept under extra-judicial detention by the U.S. military at Camp Delta, Guantánamo Bay Naval Base, Cuba. A team of three lawyers, Mark S. Sullivan, Joshua Colangelo-Bryan and Christopher G. Karagheuzoff took on the cases of Bahraini detainees pro bono in 2004. The records in this collection document the lawyers' legal motions, public campaigns and diplomatic negotiations for writ of habeas corpus and the release and repatriation of the Bahraini detainees. Many of these documents are also present in electronic form. The records are arranged in four series: Case Files, Correspondence, Publicity, and Digital Files. Acquired as part of the Human Rights Archive.
Benjamin Newton Duke (1855-1929) was a tobacco manufacturer, industrialist, and philanthropist of Durham, NC and New York, NY and a trustee and major benefactor of Trinity College (later Duke University). He was the son of Washington Duke, older brother of James B. Duke, husband of Sarah Pearson Angier Duke, and father of Angier Buchanan Duke and Mary Duke Biddle. The materials in this collection document the business, financial, philanthropic, and personal interests of Benjamin N. Duke and his family, especially Duke's involvement in the tobacco, textile, banking, and hydroelectric industries in North Carolina and New York and the Duke family's financial support of a variety of institutions, including educational institutions for African Americans and women, the Methodist Episcopal Church, South and individual churches, orphanages, hospitals, and community organizations. The Richard B. Arrington series and Alexander H. Sands, Jr., series document the personal and financial interests of Benjamin N. Duke's private secretaries in New York, NY.
Doris Duke was the only child of James Buchanan (J.B.) Duke, a founder of the American Tobacco Company and Duke Energy Company and a benefactor of Duke University, and Nanaline Holt Duke. Inheriting a bulk of her father's estate in 1925, which included Duke Farms in New Jersey, Rough Point in Newport, R.I., and a mansion in New York City, Doris was soon dubbed by the press as "the richest girl in the world." Although Doris did her best to live a private life, she carried on the Duke family's pattern of philanthropy by contributing to a number of public causes such as the arts, historic preservation, and the environment. Doris Duke died in October 1993 at the age of 80. In her will she left the majority of her estate to the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation. The Doris Duke Memorabilia Collection contains personal artifacts belonging to Doris Duke. The artifacts widely vary, yet tend to reflect what was important to Miss Duke including travel, philanthropy, growing orchids, and music. Of particular interest are those items from Doris Duke's childhood including scrapbooks, yearbooks, and homework assignments.
Lenoir, N.C. residents. Collection consists primarily of letters from Alfred Weimer Dula to his wife Adelaide (Mast) Dula and letters from Harry Stuart Hickman to his wife Elizabeth (Dula) Hickman. Many of the letters deal with experiences during WWII. Alfred Dula was one of the first optometrists in N.C. and wrote to his wife while travelling to small towns. Harry Hickman wrote from Aviation Medical School, San Antonio, Tex. There are other miscellaneous letters to and from various family members, some from abroad. There is one travel diary of a trip from Montreal to points in Europe.
Allyson Kay Duncan is a U.S. Circuit Judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. She is the Fourth Circuit's first female African American judge. This collection consists largely of personal and professional correspondence from Duncan's nomination, induction, and service on the Fourth Circuit, with letters from family, friends, and colleagues across the legal profession. The bulk of the collection dates from the 2000s, but includes some assorted materials from her work as an attorney for Kilpatrick Stockton and the NC Utilities Commission in the 1990s.
Group formed in the 1970s to draft a charter for the consolidation of the Durham, North Carolina City and County governments. Durham, North Carolina City/County Charter Commission records contain correspondence, financial records, reports, statements, memoranda, polls, minutes, maps, and other documents. Most materials date from 1971 to 1974.
The Durham Savoyards is a Durham (Durham Co.), N.C., production company for Gilbert and Sullivan operettas, founded in 1963 and incorporated in 1964. Collection comprises the archives of this organization and consist of minutes, reports, correspondence, programs, financial records, posters, director's notes, stage design, black-and-white and color photographs, music videocassettes, color slides, and clippings. Includes "The Savoyards, Durham Savoyards Limited, 1989" and "Mindful of the Whys and Wherefores; a Savoyard Producer's Journal" by James L. Parmentier. There are a few photographs that pre-date the founding of the Savoyards in 1963; they feature images of comic operas performed at the Southern Conservatory of Music in Durham.
A collection of letters to Eastman from civil engineer Charles Sloane; journalist and social reformer Paul Underwood Kellogg; drama critic Clayton Meeker Hamilton; Eastman's secondary school friend Ida Langdon; an unidentified friend, Summer Robinson, and various other people (including Eastman's sister, Dorothy). Includes a folder of poetry and literature sent to Eastman by unidentified correspondents. There are no letters by Eastman in the collection. 
Complete group of ten trading card sets on social and political topics created by California company Eclipse Enterprises, dating 1989-1993.
Businessman active in the lumber industry. Collection contains correspondence, legal and financial papers, printed materials, photographs, and other materials from lumber businesses beginning before 1910, especially in East Tennessee and in the Philippine Islands with headquarters in Philadelphia, Pa. The Insular Lumber Co., Negros Island, P.I., produced mahogany. Also present in the collection are personal and family papers, including numerous photographs.
The wholesale firm of Effinger & Aiken, located in Baltimore, Maryland, supplied consumer goods to stores in cities and rural towns from Maryland to Florida during the early 1900s. The collection includes eight business account books of Effinger & Aiken together with roughly 350 related business correspondence and papers. The account books document the firm's sale and shipping of goods such as crockery, glassware, wooden items, hardware, tools, and building materials throughout the southern Atlantic states. Each of two leather-bound ledgers begins with an alphabetical index listing the customer and internal accounts recorded within the ledger and their corresponding page numbers. The related business correspondence and papers, which chiefly document the firm's difficulties with debt collection, are loosely inserted in these ledgers near the associated customer accounts. Four cloth-bound daybooks record customer names with itemized purchase and/or payment transactions each day. The daybook with entries from 1895 to 1896 most likely does not pertain to the transactions of Effinger & Aiken. One small, cloth-bound account book records, in tabular form, amounts "Collect," "Cash," "Credit," and "Wholesale" for each day of the month from June 1905 to July 1920; and another small, cloth-bound account book records daily collections from 1906 to 1907.
Cataloged from item. Collection comprises a diary (124 pgs.) maintained by an unidentified woman who was educated, knowledgeable about sailing, and quite religious, during her voyages and travels around the northern coast of Scotland to cities in Norway, Sweden, the Netherlands, Belgium, England, France, and Spain.
J. Claude Evans was a United Methodist minister who served in South Carolina, Texas, and North Carolina along with his wife, Maxilla. He edited the South Carolina Methodist Advocate from 1952 to 1957, and was chaplain at Southern Methodist University in Dallas from 1957 until his retirement from the ministry in 1982. The majority of the family's papers relate to the pastoral and counseling career of J. Claude Evans, and include drafts and copies of his sermons, articles, columns, and other writings from the 1940s through the early 2000s on wide-ranging topics such as Christianity, spirituality, abortion, race, sexuality, sexism, nature, equality, aging, and violence. The papers also include some personal materials, correspondence, genealogy, notes and printed materials from his many professional activities, and Evans' subject files. There is a small amount of material created and collected by Maxilla, J. Claude's wife, largely relating to her bird watching and breeding of songbirds in Texas and North Carolina.
Sara M. Evans is a Regents Professor Emeritus in the history department at the University of Minnesota. She specializes in American social and women's history of the 20th century. Collection consists of subject files, course materials, research files, publication materials, lectures, correspondence, project documentation, student course work and student activist work accumulated by Evans during her career as first a student, then a professor and historian, of women's history. Topics include feminism, minority women, religion, violence, civil rights, labor activism at Duke University, lesbianism, motherhood, feminist theology, employment, socialist feminism, Christian feminism, National Organization for Women, Organization of American Historians, and student activism. Collection contains materials used in the preparation of her publications, including Personal Politics. There are also lectures, academic correspondence, and administrative materials from her tenure at the University of Minnesota. Audiocassette tapes from a series of interviews conducted by Evans in her research for Personal Politics, as well as a slide show from a feminist organization are also included. Originals of the audio cassette tapes are closed to use. Patrons must request use copies to access the content of this material. Acquired as part of the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture.
Wright H. Bill Everett (1925-2010) was a media space salesman for several major magazines, and the founder of his own businesses, Flix and the W.H. Everett Co., that specialized in a variety of print materials combining humorous captions with still images from silent movies. The Wright H. Everett Papers span the years 1853-1998 and include correspondence, photographs and negatives, 8mm and 16mm films and audiotapes, print advertisements, layouts, presentations, research reports, pamphlets and brochures that document Everett's career selling advertising space in national magazines as well as his own businesses, Flix and the W.H. Everett Co. Magazines represented in the collection include Advertising Age, American Home, Flying, Progressive Grocer, Reader's Digest, Reminisce, Suburbia Today, Time, Western Advertising and Woman's Home Companion. Other companies represented include American Greeting Cards, Hunter Snead, Lennen-Newell, Maclean Hunter Media and Remington Advertising. There are also files relating to Everett's book How Were Things At The Office? Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Wife of Viscount Feilding, 9th Earl of Denbigh. Diary (350 p.) and typed transcript describing a voyage to India and the social and religious life of a British Army officer's wife near Poona. Lady Feilding's description of the voyage aboard the troopship CROCODILE includes the bad conditions as well as entertainment on ship. Enroute to India they stopped at Malta, Port Said, Suez, and the Red Sea, and then went on to Bombay, Kirkee, and Poona.
Frank W. Fetter (1899-1991) was a professor emeritus of economics at Northwestern University. This collection priarmily documents his professional life through his correspondence and diaries, writings, research, professional and faculty activities, and photographs. It forms parts of the Economists' Papers Archive.
Business executive, photographer and author based in New York; considered a pioneer in the field of public relations. David Finn papers include memos, art exhibit brochures, Ruder Finn print advertising and publications, and articles written by Finn and others. Companies represented include American Can, General Mills, Ruder & Finn, and Whirlpool. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
The chief component consists of roughly 2000 lantern slides used by college professor Azel Hull Fish in lectures about the history of California, the Panama-Pacific Exposition, Plymouth Colony, the settling of the American West, social and economic development of the U.S., works of art, and other historical and philosophical subjects. The slides are arranged by subject group. Additional materials consist of photographs, some loose, but most mounted in photograph albums. Some of these were souvenir albums with views of California and other Western states by commercial photographers. Also included are some pamphlets, chiefly lecture texts, and a slide projector.
Margaret Fishback was an advertising copywriter for Macy's, Cecil & Presbrey, Warwick & Legler, Young & Rubicam, Doyle Dane Bernbach, and a number of freelance clients. A poet, columnist, and author of prose work, she contributed frequently to national magazines and published several books. The Margaret Fishback Papers span the years 1863 through 1978 and document Fishback's dual careers in advertising and writing as well as her personal life. The collection includes correspondence, layouts, drafts, galley proofs, radio scripts, working copy of advertising text, poetry, prose, published material, appointment books, scrapbooks, photographs, and other materials. Clients represented in the papers include Borden's, Chef Boy-Ar-Dee, Clairol, General Foods, Gourmet Foods, Gimbels, Macy's, Martex, Moore-McCormack Lines, Norcross, Norsk, Pabst, and Simmons Beautyrest.
Collection comprises a letter (1922 October 27) Morris Fishbein wrote to Dr. H. Sinclair Taite regarding the purchase and shipment of volumes of the Bulletin of the Society of Medical History of Chicago.
Collection comprises 5 letters (three originals and two copies) Photius Fisk wrote to "Friend Hacker," probably Maine reformer, abolitionist, and journalist Jeremy Hacker, between 1886 and 1889. Topics include health matters, money enclosed, and end-of-life planning. Also includes a copy of Fisk's obituary.
Bruno Foa (1905-1999) was a professor of economics and an economic advisor and consultant. This collection primarily documents his professional life through his correspondence, writings, and professional activities. It forms part of the Economists' Papers Archive.
Judith A. Fortney is a public health scholar and researcher who received her PhD at Duke University and worked for Family Health International and the World Health Organization. This collection documents her professional activities.
Advertising agency based in San Francisco and Los Angeles. One large portfolio featuring the corporation's campaign proposal, with 5 advertisements, to sell Bohemian beer in the California market. The proposal was presented to Carl Walters, of Southern Brewing Company in Los Angeles. There is no date on the proposal and no indication whether it was successful.
The Frederick Fraser Papers comprises documents of a cotton planter in South Carolina. Papers include correspondence concerning the sale of cotton, some personal correspondence, assorted financial transactions concerning cotton, some miscellaneous personal papers, and a scrapbook that contains a variety of materials related to social life in South Carolina and the Civil War, including: correspondence, newspaper clippings, poems, copies of tombstone engravings, invitations, photographs, and postcards.
Collection comprises twenty-five black and white gelatin silver 16x20 inch exhibit prints, representing a larger body of work on contemporary Iowa rural culture. The images portray a changing Midwest of vanishing towns and transformed landscapes. Scenes include cemeteries, slaughterhouses, farms, abandoned grain elevators, and fields. Individuals inhabiting the scenes include young people at leisure, fishermen on the Mississippi, hunters in fields, veterans on Memorial Day, Amish families, as well as more recent arrivals to Iowa, Lubavitcher Hasidic Jews at prayer and migrant workers in the fields and at home. The prints are housed in exhibit mats. Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
The Front Page (1979-2006) was a newspaper dedicated to the LGBTQ+ community in North and South Carolina. Collection consists of a large clippings file, research and subject files, newsletters, book publicity, correspondence, including letters to the editor, administrative records, a Kill box file, mailing lists, advertising layouts, photographs, a reader survey, faxes, some writings submissions, flyers, press releases, and files of other gay and lesbian publications. Other items include T-shirts, posters, and photographs. Topics represented include early research on AIDS, gay rights, resources for the community, legal and political issues, and pride events across the two states; there are also papers related to local activists and Front Page staff Lee Mullis and Jim Duley. Acquired as part of the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture.
The U.S. Farm Security Administration (FSA) was formed in 1937 as part of social and economic reforms following the Great Depression. Collection comprises 18 color photographs taken from 1939 to 1942 by FSA photographers Jack Delano (8 prints), Russell Lee (7) and Marion Post Wolcott (3). Between 1937 and 1946, FSA/OWI photographers created over 175,000 black-and-white images, and only about 1600 color images using Kodachrome chromogenic film. Subjects in this collection are diverse and include sawmills in Georgia and Maine; a wheat field in Washington State, socializing at a rural fair in Pie Town, New Mexico; tobacco cultivation and a federal housing project in Puerto Rico; and a group of African Americans fishing near a cotton plantation in Mississippi. The prints are sized 10x13 and 11x14 inches, and were created in the 1980s by photograph collector Tennyson Schad using the dye transfer process. Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
Robert Jerome Fuhrman was an advertising and marketing executive and entrepreneur, co-founder of Eggland's Best, based in Pennsylvania. The Robert Jerome Fuhrman papers consist of clippings and marketing reports. Products include Beech-Nut baby foods; Crest toothpaste (Procter & Gamble/Benton & Bowles); Eggland's Best eggs; and Ricola candies and cough drops. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Account books for a blacksmith in Abingdon, Va.
Elias Fulp was a physician from Walnut Cove, North Carolina. Postmaster of Fulp, North Carolina. The collection consists of correspondence and other papers pertaining to Fulp's role as trustee for Sidney H. Reid, who had just gone into bankruptcy. There are also several account books with accounts of a physician's practice.
The Feminist Women's Health Center in Atlanta, Georgia, was founded in 1976 by a group of women dissatisfied with the health care options and information available to them and who desired to change this situation. The clinic started in 1977 with self-help groups where women were able to learn from each other and themselves through open discussions. It expanded to offer a full range of clinical services (including providing access to birth control and contraception, abortion, donor insemination, and pregnancy care) as well as educational, outreach, and advocacy programs, addressing subjects such as sexual hygiene, sex, and sexually transmitted diseases. Collection is comprised of files documenting the development and daily operations of the Feminist Women's Health Center, a feminist non-profit women's healthcare center, from the years 1973-2003. Major components of the collection include files from research studies conducted at the center, policies and procedures for maintaining the center, and incidents of anti-abortion protests at the center, specifically involving the group Operation Rescue. The National Abortion Federation, the professional association of abortion providers in the United States and Canada, also figures prominently throughout these records. The collection is organized into six series: Administrative Files, Clinic Files, Subject Files, Financial Material, Legal Files, and Audiovisual Material. The collection also contains a physically separate Closed Series, comprised of materials from the prior six series that are currently closed to research.
Ann Henshaw Gardiner was a nurse, scientist, historian, and one of the founders of the School of Nursing at Duke University. The Henshaw and Snodgrass families were farmers and politicians in Virginia and West Virginia throughout the 18th, 19th, and 20th centuries. The Ann Henshaw Gardiner papers include legal and financial documents for the family, including materials related to enslaved people, as well as photographs, scrapbooks, local history and genealogical materials, and materials documenting Ann Henshaw Gardiner's career as a nurse in World War 1 and at Duke University.
Lisa Garmon, longtime resident of Chapel Hill, NC, was a multi-issue activist, organizing for women's rights, LGBT/queer rights, Latin American rights, and a defender of the environment. Collection contains personal/professional correspondence, subject files, and audiocassette and videocassette tapes of Lisa Garmon, writings and other materials related to the publication of the feminist zine HA!, and a zine collection. Acquired as part of the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture.
Commercial artist primarily on the U.S. west coast. Consists of 19 pencil and pen-and-ink drawings primarily of women's fashions and bathing suits prepared for retail advertising. 
Lumber company founded in 1902 by Andrew and Nat Gennett, headquartered in Georgia and South Carolina, later in Asheville, N.C. Correspondence, contracts, legal documents, and other records of the Gennett Lumber Co., mostly for the years 1920 to 1945. The two Gennett brothers Nat and Andrew, founders of the company, were part of the effort to establish the South's national forest system. Subjects covered by materials in the collection include Civil War reminiscences, life at Nashville and at Tulane and Vanderbilt universities shortly after the war, the lumber business after 1890, economic conditions in the U.S. after 1900, forest conservation, U.S. politics and foreign relations during World War I, and travel in Europe after the war.
German Army regiments assigned throughout Europe created these newspapers during World War I. Examples of newspapers produced by German military regiments from World War I, in folders organized by front. Fronts include Italy, Turkey, Belgium, France, Romania, Poland, the Eastern Front, and Galicia (Spain). There is also a large section of miscellaneous newspapers and illustrated war papers.
Mine owners and speculators residing in Cid and Thomasville (Davidson County), North Carolina. Collection consist chiefly of correspondence, along with wills, deeds, and other personal, business, and legal papers of Mrs. Alberta Stith Jones Gillingham and of her brother, Fred H. Stith, mining speculator, of Cid and Thomasville (Davidson County), North Carolina. Most of the papers are Mrs. Gillingham's and center around the operation of gold, silver, copper, sulphur, and zinc mines in the Cid district of Davidson County, North Carolina, and the complications caused in family relationships because of contested inheritances and property rights. Alberta Gillingham was also a music composer, writer, and teacher; one of her compositions, "General Harrison's inaugural quick-step," was transferred to the post-bellum sheet music collection. Includes materials concerning Furnifold Simmon's campaign for U.S. Senate in 1930, letters from Stith's children in Trinity College (now Duke University), and correspondence between Mrs. Gillingham and William H. Bailey, a lawyer of Charlotte, North Carolina.
Arthur Golden was professor emeritus at the City College of the City University of New York; editor of Walt Whitman’s Blue Book (1968), and co-editor of Leaves of grass: a textual variorium of the printed poems (1980). Collection comprises a copy of Walt Whitman's Leaves of Grass (3rd edition), containing Arthur Golden's marks toward his Walt Whitman's Blue Book edition. Golden presented the volume to Professor Gay Wilson Allen in May 1962.
Graphic artist and Creative Director at CBS Radio and Television divisions. Creator of the CBS "eye" logo and corporate typography.
Artist, advertising executive (Willard B. Golovin Co.) and director of an art gallery (Bayer Gallery) in New York, N.Y. Collection spans the years 1882-1974 and includes correspondence, tear sheets, clippings, printed material and original artwork that document Golovin's careers running the Willard B. Golovin agency and the Bayer Gallery. Clients include Aberle, Frances Denney, Glen Guard clothiers, and Harry Winston jewelers. There are also files relating to support efforts during World War II and a series of posters addressing absenteeism in war work industries. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History. Cataloged from inventory.
Collection comprises writings by Jean Gonzalez/Juana Maria Paz, 1977-2006 and undated, reflecting the breadth of her work and interests, from lesbian feminism to intential community and the lesbian land movement, with a primary focus on community building. Includes journal articles and book chapters, letters to the editor, newsletters, plays, and position statements, often in both draft and published form. Many of these works comprise her signature works in lesbian and feminist theory. Also includes architectural plans and drawings for her home in Twin Oaks. 
Resident of South Berwick, Maine. The centerpiece of this collection is a late 19th century scrapbook belonging to Sarah E. Goodwin of Maine, into which manuscript and printed instructions and patterns for the creation of tapestries, collars, edging, capes, mittens, afghans, hoods, curtains, infant shoes, slippers, and other items were pasted and pinned. Collection also includes a commonplace book of knitting and crocheting patterns, home remedies for illnesses and diseases, and a variety of household tips, as well as poems, literary quotations, and miscellaneous lists of information; as well as a catalog for a Baptist church in South Berwick, Maine (1898), numerous patterns for embroidered monograms, and many loose patterns. Acquired as part of the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture.
Collection contains correspondence, account books, records, sermons, and other papers (chiefly, 1800-1880) of the Graham family of Virginia. Includes letters of the Rev. William Graham, Presbyterian minister and one of the founders of Liberty Hall Academy (later Washington and Lee University); material relating to the patent on Dr. William A. Graham's fire extinguisher; records (1774-1803) of tuition charges and books bought by Washington College students; and correspondence between Edward Graham and Edmund Ruffin discussing scientific experiments.
Married first to David Davis, lawyer, Supreme Court Justice, and U.S. Senator from Illinois, and then to Wharton Jackson Green, agriculturist and U.S. Representative from North Carolina; resident of Fayetteville, N.C. Personal and family correspondence. Includes journal of and letters, 1851-1853, from brother James M. Burr to his wife describing his life in California during the Gold Rush; Civil War letters to Adeline from her cousin (and later second husband), Wharton Jackson Green, while a prisoner-of-war at Johnson's Island, Ohio; letters, 1882-1885, from first husband David Davis describing daily proceedings in the Senate, social functions in Washington, D.C., and notable persons; letters from friends of Davis concerning personal and political matters; letters, 1906-1928, from Jessica Randolph Smith and others pertaining to the United Daughters of the Confederacy; and letters, 1911-1931, from cousin James Henry Rice, Jr., ornithologist, naturalist, editor, and literary figure, discussing politics, conservation, South Carolina culture, world affairs, especially relative to Germany and Russia, his rice plantations, and the League of Nations.
Advertising executive at Doyle Dane Bernbach and Paula Green Advertising, based in New York. Collection includes correspondence, photographs, slides, audiovisual materials in multiple formats (VHS and Umatic videocassettes; audio cassettes; phono records; optical discs, audio and video tape reels, 16mm film), market research reports and financial reports, print advertisements, storyboards, musical scores, cookbooks and other printed materials. Companies represented in the collection include American Cancer Society, Burlington Industries, CBS radio, Chemstrand, Doyle Dane Bernbach, General Foods, Goya Foods, Hathaway shirts, Heinz, International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union, Green Dolmatch, L.C. Gumbinner, New York Times, Paula Green Advertising, Quaker Oats, Seventeen Magazine, Sterling National Bank, Subaru, and the U.S. Public Health Service. Materials cover commercial products and advocacy campaigns for breast cancer awareness, self-examination and prevention, tobacco use and antismoking programs. Most materials are in English; however some items exist in French, Italian, Japanese and Spanish. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Register of admissions and scrapbooks of the North Carolina State Hospital for the Insane, Raleigh, N.C., of which Grissom was superintendent.
The Hall family of Anne Arundel County, Maryland, were enslavers and owners of tobacco plantations. Collection includes three generations of the Hall family and documents their involvement with tobacco and other plantation operations in Maryland during the 18th and 19th centuries, including the shift to lumber and wheat after 1800. Also includes information on cotton plantations in South Carolina and the sale of cotton to England, Maryland politics and government in the 1780s, insurrections by enslaved people, and naval impressment at the time of the War of 1812.
Merchant and plantation owner of Charleston, S.C., later of Philadelphia, Pa. Collection comprises business and family correspondence, accounts, and receipts, including papers related to several of Hamilton's business partnerships (dating mainly from 1785 to 1818) and numerous private transactions, including purchases of slaves (1784-1785, 1801, 1808). There also are papers from voyages of ships in which he had a major interest, including routes to India, the Mediterranean, and the West Indies. The collection concludes with accounts and records related to the settlement of his estate from 1832 to 1870.
Abraham Hanson was an English-born American pastor and diplomat. Collection comprises 37 letters, dated 1850-1866, Abraham Hanson wrote to his wife, Lydia, and one he wrote to his father from Monrovia, Liberia, among other places. Topics include abolition, diplomatic duties, commercial affairs, emigration, shipboard travel, the condition of Liberians and his aspirations for them, health concerns, and personal matters. There are also 15 incoming letters written to Hanson and his wife, dated 1846-1866, reporting on Hanson's welfare and conditions in Liberia and Africa, along with personal travel and religious matters. Includes several condolences written to Lydia following Hanson's dearth. In addition, there is funeral sermon Hanson preached on 1848 December 10 in Wisconsin, a copy of the New York City Colonization Society's circular dated 1840 May 3, and a copy of an 1852 Liberian court decision regarding payment of tuition and provision of clothing for Robert Savage. There is also a sermon dated 1863 Dec 10, entitled "Zion's Compliance and God's Answer, Isaiah 49-16-15." Two of the letters in the collection are incomplete. Acquired as part of the John Hope Franklin Research Center for African and African American History and Culture.
Dr. Marmaduke M. Haworth was born 20 January 1823 in Guilford County, N.C., and died 23 March 1894 in Franklinville, Randolph County, N.C. He served the Franklinville area as a physician. He married Mary McMasters in 1852 and the couple had three children, Pandora, Viola, and Elizabeth. Collection comprises Haworth's medical diary and journal (approximately 156 pages), including his notes on treatment of physical ailments and on childbirth in the rural south before and after the Civil War. Haworth studied medicine at Jefferson Medical College in Philadelphia; he recorded the purchase of this notebook at Auner's bookstore to be used for his medical notes during 1846-1847. At the beginning he listed the titles and prices for the medical reference books he purchased. He then recorded 30 pages of remedies and cures, and provided a 4-page manuscript index to this material bound in at the back of the volume. He also included notes on course instruction (at one point mentioning the lectures of Nathaniel Chapman). The balance of the volume is, however, a record of over 750 obstetric deliveries that Haworth accomplished during his career, some with full case histories. The organization of the notebook is somewhat confused because Haworth stitched in pages with notes written longitudinally among the original medical course lecture notes he retained. The obstetric entries date from 1846-1894; there are two clippings inserted, one dated 1908.
Paul Hamilton Hayne was a white Southern American poet and literary critic from Charleston, S.C., and Columbia County, Georgia. He supported the Confederacy and opposed Reconstruction in the post-war South. The collection consists of correspondence, diaries, notes, scrapbooks, clippings, and literary manuscripts of Hayne and his family. The papers illustrate Hayne's career and his personal and political views.
Benjamin Sherwood Hedrick was a white professor of chemistry at the University of North Carolina, 1854-1856, and U.S. Patent Office official, 1861-1886. Collection consists chiefly of letters to Hedrick. The early correspondence is between Hedrick and Mary Ellen Thompson, his future wife. Other correspondence concerns life at the University of North Carolina, Hedrick's dismissal from the University in 1856 for his Republican and anti-slavery opinions, and his life in the North during the Civil War period. Many of the post-1861 papers relate to Hedrick's position as chemical examiner at the Patent Office. Other topics include Reconstruction, the economic plight of the South, and politics, including Hedrick's attempt to win political office in North Carolina (1868). Correspondents include Kemp P. Battle, Daniel R. Goodloe, Horace Greeley, Hinton Rowan Helper, David L. Swain, John Torrey, and Jonathan Worth.
Correspondence, reports, speeches, drafts of bills, notes, newsletters, printed material, clippings, and other papers, relating to Henderson's service as representative from the 3rd Congressional district of North Carolina, including material relating to his work on the Post Office, Civil Service, and Public Works committees, and to civil rights, minimum wage, federal aid to education, the Vietnam Conflict, anti-poverty programs, foreign aid, tobacco, Watergate, the energy crisis of the early 1970s, and local affairs and projects in eastern North Carolina.
Muriel Henderson (1920-2009) and her husband, Lawrence (Larry), were originally from Tacoma, Washington. They served as missionaries to Angola from 1947 to 1969 and eventually retired to Durham in the 1990s. The bulk of the papers relate Muriel Henderson's personal and family history (for the Woods and Henderson families). She lived with her husband Lawrence (Larry) Henderson in Angola doing missionary work from 1947 to 1969 and the collection includes many materials from this time (including journals and letters). Henderson kept in touch with people from Angola throughout the remainder of her life. The collection also includes many materials documenting her family's life in the early 20th century in the Pacific Northwest (mostly in or around Tacoma, Washington), including photographs, diaries, children's drawings and letters, school report cards, diplomas, letters, recollections (many typed) from family members, and ledgers of household expenses. Acquired as part of the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture.
The forty color inkjet photographs in this collection were taken by Lauren Henkin in May 2015 in and around Hale County, Alabama, part of the Alabama and Mississippi "Black Belt." The prints (17x22 inches) form part of a body of work titled "What's Lost is Found." Subjects include rural inhabitants, white and black; residences of all kinds, including many interiors; church exteriors and interiors; and rural and wooded landscapes, As part of the photographer's intent to capture the spirituality she perceived in the place and its people, captions for each image are taken from biblical verses. Collection includes five sheets with detailed captions and locations for each image. The Black Belt region is noted for its black topsoil, cotton plantations, the legacy of slavery, civil rights history, and photographic history: Walker Evans, Gordon Parks, and William Christenberry both produced some of their most well-known work in these same places. Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
Herron taught American literature at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, Texas. The collection includes correspondence, manuscript articles, and other material.
Edward Brodnax Hicks (1800-1858) was a lawyer, sheriff, and plantation owner from Lawrenceville, Brunswick County, Virginia. Collection comprises correspondence, legal documents, mercantile records, notes, and other papers, of Hicks and of his son, David S. Hicks, planter, lawyer, land agent, and judge in the same locality. The material relates to legal and judicial activities, Texas land deals, economic conditions in Virginia, and the Atlantic and Danville Railway Co. Included also is an extensive series of letters and papers relating to the operation, in partnership with John W. Paup, of Spring Hill plantation on the Red River, Arkansas, after 1837. An early letter, 1840, describes the deaths ("losses") of enslaved persons at the plantation, and the building of better quarters. Letters also show that Hicks engaged in selling enslaved persons at New Orleans during 1852. Correspondents include Thomas Ewing, D.J. Claiborne, Jr., Leigh R. Page, John W. Paup, and Lewis Taylor.
Robin D.S. Higham is an aviation and military historian who is professor emeritus at Kansas State University. Collection consists of scrapbooks and binders of British airplanes and ships (primarily airplanes) as well as news clippings. The scrapbooks are almost exclusively from the World War II period.
Collection contains personal, business, and legal papers of Cornelius Baldwin Hite, Jr. and of his family. The material pertains largely to life in Virginia during Reconstruction, with information about social life and customs, and on prominent Virginia families, especially the Marshall family, who were related to Hite by marriage. Includes copies (1709-1711) of passages from the diary of Mrs. Alexander Spotswood, and early legal documents relating to Hardy Co., Va.
Annie L. Hobbs of Laconia, N.H. was an instructor at the New Hampshire Conference Seminary and Female College (Methodist) in Tilton, N.H. and at the Troy Conference Academy in Poultney, Vt. during the 1850s and 1860s. Collection contains two manuscript pocket diaries, dated 1867 and 1869, and two pocket memoranda books, dated 1854-1855, 1859, and 1863-1865, kept by Annie L. Hobbs, an instructor at the New Hampshire Conference Seminary and Female College (Methodist) in Tilton, Belknap County, New Hampshire and at the Troy Conference Academy in Poultney, Rutland County, Vermont. In the diaries, Hobbs records her travels to and from her schools, evening readings, croquet games, naps, teas, Saturday excursions, her sewing work, occasional written work, receipt of letters and newspapers, Methodist festivals and Sabbath observances, and fluctuations in her health. Hobbs also regularly records her moods and her uncertainty about whether or not to go back for another term. Generally, the diaries document the life of a young female teacher living away from home, her daily routine, social contacts, and her intellectual pursuits. In the two memoranda books, Hobbs records student names and recitation periods, Lyceum lectures she attended, mathematical equations, and her expenses for 1863 to 1865.
Copywriter and advertising executive who began one of the first woman-run advertising agencies in the United States, Hockaday Associates, in New York, N.Y. in 1949. Letter appears on Harper's Bazaar stationery and concerns locating photographers for magazine illustration, editorial and publishing concerns, and a research project to survey ideas of beauty among college-age women. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Rachel Hoff is an American author and librarian. Her papers contain the original copies of her zine Intelligence Lull that she wrote when she was 15 years old; as well as writings, drawings and correspondence related to this publication. 
William Woods Holden was a journalist and Republican governor of North Carolina during Reconstruction. He was the owner and editor of the North Carolina Standard newspaper from 1843 to 1860, during which time he and the paper were affiliated with the Democratic Party. He was elected governor as a Republican in 1868, but was impeached by the Democratic state legislature in 1870 for his efforts to combat the Ku Klux Klan. Collection consists of correspondence, memoirs, business papers, legal documents, poems, and other papers. Of note are depositions and other evidence gathered by Holden and his supporters of various members of the Ku Klux Klan, documenting their membership and activities during 1869-1870. Also includes Holden family papers, including scrapbooks and account books kept by Holden's wife and daughters. 
Philip Holland lived with his wife, Corabelle Anderson, and their children, Philip (Pito) and Isabelle Holland, in Guatemala City from 1923-1927. Philip Holland worked for the U.S. Consul and served as the U.S. Consul General in Guatemala from 1924-1927. Collection consists of four photo albums with approximately 600 gelatin silver prints assembled and maintained by the Holland family during their years in Guatemala, 1923-1927. Three of the albums contain snapshots from the family's life in Guatemala City and travels in the country. The fourth album contains panoramic photographs of Guatemalan landscapes and cities by Boston photographer Henry J. Thayer. The collection's photographs feature the Holland family, especially their children, and their travels through Guatemala; street and market scenes from various towns and cities in Guatemala; church processions and parades; landscapes with Lake Atitlan and surrounding volcanoes, including Fuego and Agua; Mayan ruins, churches, palaces, and other Guatemalan architecture; local potters firing and selling pottery; railroads, streetcars, steamships, and other methods of transportation; the piers and beaches of San Jose, which apparently served as the port city for Guatemala; and various farms from the United Fruit Company. Geographic areas represented in the collection include Guatemala City, Antigua, Tecpan, Chichichastenango, Lake Atitlan, Solola, Escuintla, Panajachel, Quirigua, and the Quetzaltenango Valley.
Lawyer, and Governor of Virginia, from Winchester (Frederick Co.), Virginia. Papers contain letters from Holliday while a student at Yale University, 1846; papers relating to the 33rd Virginia Regiment, which Holliday raised and commanded during the Civil War; letters concerning the International Exhibition held in Philadelphia in 1876, at which Holliday served as a commissioner from Virginia; and letters and papers relating to Holliday's election as governor in 1877; and letters from his term as governor, for the most part dealing with routine political and administrative matters. Also includes printed matter and scrapbooks of clippings and letter books created while Holliday was a student at Yale and at the University of Virginia, 1845-1849, and as governor of Virginia, 1878-1879; and four record books concerning Holliday's legal work.
Scholar, educator, and author of Charlottesville (Albemarle Co.), Virginia. Correspondence, notes, diaries, and literary works of George Frederick Holmes. Also contains correspondence of William Howard Perkinson, educator and son-in-law of Holmes; and of Joseph Henry Herndon Holmes and Mary Ann Pemberton Holmes, parents of George Frederick Holmes. Early papers of Joseph and Mary Holmes concern their life in Demerara, British Guyana, where Joseph Holmes was a barrister, and include legal papers, poems, and a genealogy. The papers of their son, George Frederick, a professor at the University of Virginia, include correspondence, diaries, articles, literary works, and notes, and relate to his interests in philology, grammar, history, political science and economics, and to Southern colleges and universities. The papers of William Howard Perkinson are confined to a few records of his work as a professor of Latin and Greek at the University of Virginia, a few business papers, and records of the administration of his father-in-law's estate.
Medical illustrator, sculptor, and exhibit designer, affiliated with the University of Illinois College of Medicine in Chicago. Collection consists of the exhibit detail book containing text and illustrations for the exhibit "Ostetrical Forceps Delivery," curated by Dr. Frederick H. Falls and illustrated by Charlotte S. Holt, as well as five large and one small exhibition panels. The exhibit consisted of five sections: Anesthesia; Technique; Management of Newborn; Pathology; and History and Indications. Within each section, Falls and Holt presented examples of situations leading to a forceps birth, correct technique for the use of forceps, the issues arising from this method, and the treatment of the newborn after this procedure. Acquired as part of the History of Medicine Collections at Duke University.
Collection consists of historical medical instruments and artifacts, art objects, realia, and other three-dimensional objects related to the history of medicine, primarily originating from Europe and the United States, but including some artifacts from China and Japan. Ranging in age from the late 16th to the late 20th centuries, objects include medical kits and pharmaceutical items (often in the original cases and bags); equipment used in amputation, obstetrics, opthalmology, surgery, urology, neurology, early electrical therapies, and in research and diagnostic settings; instructional objects such as anatomical models and figurines; and other objects such as apothecary jars, cupping glasses, infant feeders, a bas-relief memento mori, and fetish figures. There are many models of microscopes and stethoscopes, dating from the 17th to the 20th century. Accquired as part of the History of Medicine Collections at Duke University.
Kathy Hopwood is a martial arts and self-defense teacher who founded the SafeSkills Dojo in Durham, NC. She and her partner Beth Seigler provided both martial arts classes and women's self-defense programs. The collection contains materials documenting workshops and training courses they oversaw and participated in, as well as materials from women's organizations that were dedicated to the goal of promoting women's self-defense capabilities and expertise in the martial arts. It contains professional materials as well as educational materials, publications and articles about self-defense and martial arts, especially pertaining to women and children.
Collection contains personal and professional papers of Claudia Horwitz, a Chapel Hill spiritual activist, author, and founder of Stone Circles.
Julia Ward Howe (1819-1910) was an author, lecturer, abolitionist, and suffragist, best known for authoring the “Battle Hymn of the Republic.” Collection comprises a letter dated 1909 September 22 from Julia Ward Howe to Magister H.R. Sanborn in which she discusses her plan for reading an unnamed poem at the Hudson-Fulton celebration. 
American physician and syphilis researcher. Collection consists chiefly of correspondence, planning documents, patient case files, reports, maps, and related articles and other writings, chiefly dating from 1948-1952, deriving from Hudson's ground-breaking work during the 1950s on endemic syphilis in the Middle East, in the regions of modern-day Syria and Iraq. The collection also includes drafts of writings concerning the history and epidemiology of venereal and non-venereal syphilis in colonial-period Americas and in Europe. Additional papers and many photographs relating to Hudson and his work can be found in another Ellis Hudson collection in the Rubenstein Library, which is represented in the online catalog and finding aid. Forms part of the Trent Manuscripts Collection and was acquired by the History of Medicine Collections at Duke University.
The International Center for Transitional Justice (ICTJ) is a non-profit organization that assists countries in pursuing accountability for mass atrocities and human rights abuses. Its records span the years 1918 to 2020, with the bulk of the materials dating from the 1970s-2020. Materials include ICTJ office and administrative files, program and conference records, annual reports, legal journals, human rights organization publications, reports and white papers, newspapers, subject files, teaching materials, trial transcripts, and posters and ephemera. There are many audiovisual and digital records. Groups and governing bodies represented in the materials include ICTJ, Amnesty International, United Nations organizations and missions, the European Union, the Washington Office on Latin America, the World Bank, Minority Rights Group International, criminal courts, truth commissions, and many others. Administrative files include the papers of former ICTJ Presidents and other staff files, including Juan E. Mendez, Priscilla Hayner, Louis Bickford, Alex Boraine, Ian Martin, Lisa Magarrell, and Marieke Wierda -- as well as institutional memory files that document the narrative of the creation and work of ICTJ. Acquired as part of the Human Rights Archive at Duke University.
The non-profit agency International Monitor Institute (IMI) operated between 1993 and 2003, primarily to assist international war-crimes tribunals by collecting, indexing and organizing visual evidence of violations of international human rights law. The International Monitor Institute Records, Rwanda Videotapes and Audiotapes span the dates 1992-1999, and comprise audiovisual materials related to IMI's documentation of contemporary conflicts and human rights violations in Rwanda. The collection contains videotape segments of news broadcasts as well as documentaries of the Rwandan genocide, including footage of massacre sites and refugee camps, and interviews with both victims and perpetrators of the genocide. The collection also contains audiotapes of broadcasts from Radio Télévision Libres des Milles Collines (RTLM) and Radio Rwanda, classified as incitement to genocide, as well as several recordings produced by Reporters without Borders. The bulk of materials in this collection are audiotapes of RTLM broadcasts.
Collection of incarceration and anarchist publications produced by South Chicago ABC Zine Distro. Collection consists of 103 zines and drawings which include works most notably by Mumia Abu-Jamal, Sundiata Acoli, Ashanti Alston Omowali, David Gilbert and his son, Chesa Boudin, Kevin "Rashid" Johnson, Dennis Kyne, Anthony Rayson, Bobby Sands, Sean Swain, and Harold H. Thompson.
Collection consists largely of correspondence between historian Nell Irvin Painter and her parents (1969-2003), documenting various stages of their lives, travels, and Painter's scholarly career. Also includes writings by or about Nell Painter, including reviews of her work; materials, including photographs and tintypes (circa 1890s-1910s) of African Americans in Victoria, Texas, kept by Frank and Dona Irvin, relating to their early life near Houston, and documenting aspects of African American history in that area; copies and reviews of Dona Irvin's writings; documents related to Frank and Dona's education and careers; family photographs; videos; Frank irvin's diary (2000-2003); legal papers; and other items. Acquired as part of the John Hope Franklin Research Center for African and African American History and Culture.
Renée Jacobs is a documentary photographer and photojournalist whose project, "Slow Burn," documents the abandonment of Centralia, Pennsylvania due to an underground coal mine fire in the mid-1980s. Her archive includes negatives, contact sheets, gelatin silver work prints and exhibit prints, digital inkjet prints, and publication materials deriving from the project. There are also oral history interviews on audiocassette with residents of Centralia, as well as some correspondence, a 1979 federal government report on Centralia, and color photographs and negatives taken by another photographer who visited the town in 1987. Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
Collection consists of Japanese books, periodicals and other printed materials relating to the Japanese student movement of the 1960s and later. The materials derive from the first confrontations of 1960 provoked by the Anpo treaty, through the protest movement's years of crisis and decay in the 1970s, but there are more recent materials as well. They are arranged as originally ordered, by formats. Items of interest include radical left-wing student newspapers, large flyers and smaller protest handouts, special issues from mainstream media outlets, clippings, and North Korean and former Soviet Union Communist propaganda. Notably, the collection includes a full 12-month run of the Japanese magazine, Kisetsu. Protest movement ephemera also includes original writings, chiefly mimeographed essays and manuscript submissions for publication. The collection is strong in material relating to the BUND movement (Kyôsan Shugisha Dômei), the rise of Zengakuren radicalism, and the birth of the Japanese Red Army Faction (Sekigun-Ha). Materials and this collection guide are in the Japanese language. Romanized titles are given for books and serials. The collection is part of a larger gift pertaining to the radicalization of the student movement in Japan, including books, a video, and other items which are now available as part of the holdings of the East Asian Collection in Duke University's Perkins Library.
The collection features 63 letters, dated 1800-1822 and undated. Topics include progress of various vaccination programs, at home and abroad, as well as his recognition in Parliament and the Royal Jennerian Society; impact of illness in local families; preparations for war, which he opposes; an inscription for his brother's tombstone; gifts and food sent to family and friends; illness among his family members; comments on various printing jobs; settling of accounts, lending money, and dealing with unfavorable tenants and farm managers; fossil collecting; requests for positions on behalf of others and for the return a prisoner of war who is a relation; medical cases and consultations; and his appointment as physician extraordinary to George IV. Included are letters to Dr. [Thomas] Pruen; Charles Henry Parry; James Smith (1771-1841); Dr. S.B. LaBatt; and to Nigel Kingscote. Many items are copies of family letters, they were probably made during the life of Jenner's nephew, William Davies, and contain annotations by him. In addition to the letters, there are a few miscellaneous papers, including poems, a prescription and a recipe, and a receipt for the Royal Jennerian Society. There are four holograph prescriptions and two recipes (1807-1821), four with initials "E.J.," mounted and bound in a volume with an engraved portrait of Jenner. Collection also includes a manuscript diary (188 pages) maintained by Jenner in 1811 and the Fall of 1812, primarily containing notes on his patients and their treatments for various illnesses, from syphilis to gout to heart ailments (including prescriptions) along with records of many vaccinations. There is a note of receipt of a letter (1812 Sept 12) from Dr. Alex Crichton stating that vaccination flourished throughout the Russian Empire. Also contains reports on the dissection of organs from a cow, horse, and sheep, along with two sets of notations regarding diabetes, and one on "pulmonary affections." There are occasional notes with weather observations, recipes, lists of letters written, patient charges or payments, and a few comments on his house repairs using stucco. At the end of the volume are a number of poems and epigrams.
The Jewish Heritage Foundation of North Carolina (JHFNC) graphic arts collection is an artificial collection of engravings, etchings, lithographs, screen prints, drawings, and sketches with themes related to Jewish religion, history, and culture. Artists represented include William Henry Bartlett, Paul Bourguignon, Gustave Doré, Joseph Margulies, Cécile Reims-Deux, and Yehudit Yelin-Ginat. The Jewish Heritage Foundation of North Carolina (JHFNC) is an independent organization dedicated to preserving and presenting the history of the Jewish people of North Carolina.
The oral history video recordings, audio recordings, and transcripts in this collection were produced or collected by the Jewish Heritage Foundation of North Carolina (JHFNC) and historian Leonard Rogoff as source material for various projects related to the history of Jews in North Carolina. The collection consists of individual and group interviews of Jewish residents of urban and rural North Carolina, including rabbis. Topics discussed by interviewees include family and community history, religious education, participation in Jewish congregations, anti-Semitism and race relations the civil rights movement in North Carolina, World War II military service and the Holocaust, family businesses, and philanthropy. Interviewers include Rogoff, Robin Gruber, and Steven Channing.
Lawyer, judge, and state senator, of Clinton and Raleigh, N.C. Correspondence, printed matter, clippings, and other papers, relating mainly to North Carolina politics, especially the senatorial campaigns of 1948 and 1950. Includes legislative papers (1937-1941) on Johnson's service in the North Carolina Senate; material relating to tobacco-production quotas under the Agricultural Adjustment Administration; materials from Johnson's judicial career; and papers from Joseph Melville Broughton, North Carolina Governor and senator, and Frank Porter Graham, U.S. Senator and president of the University of North Carolina. Correspondents include Broughton, Graham, and Samuel Lubbell.
Papers of militia officer and customs collector Joseph Jones of Petersburg, Va., and of his children and grandchildren, including business, personal, and military correspondence, deeds, Virginia militia records, general orders, Treasury Dept. circulars, lists of licensed vessels, letters regarding western lands, and papers relating to the port of Petersburg, Va. Correspondents include John Adams, William H. Crawford, Albert Gallatin, Richard Bland Lee, James Madison, Timothy Pickering, John Randolph, and John Tyler.
Advertising executive, 1950s-1980s. The collection documents Jones's primary career as an executive for several major advertising agencies, including Leo Burnett Company, Campbell-Ewald Company, D.P. Brother and Company, Wilding Advertising, and William R.Biggs/Gilmore Associates; and his second career as a professor of advertising at Michigan State University. Materials consist primarily of correspondence, memoranda, notes, reports, scripts, and audiovisual (including videocassettes) materials that document the development of print, radio, and television advertising campaigns for a wide variety of clients. The history and management of advertising companies in Chicago and Detroit, in Australia, and in Singapore is also represented. Major clients and campaigns documented include Chevrolet, the Florida Citrus Commission, General Motors Corporation, and Oldsmobile.
James A. Joseph is a Louisiana native who graduated from Southern University, Baton Rouge, and from Yale Divinity School. He is an ordained minister and is currently Professor of the Practice of Public Policy Studies and Leader-in-Residence at the Hart Leadership Program at Duke University. He is also responsible for launching the U.S. - Southern Africa Center for Leadership and Public Values. Joseph has worked for four U.S. presidents, beginning as Interior undersecretary for President Carter from 1977-1981. He has also served on the Advisory Committee to the Agency on International Development under President Reagan, and was appointed by President Bush to the Presidential Commission on Historically Black Colleges. In 1996, he was appointed as Ambassador to South Africa by President Clinton, where he served until 1999. He is also a former president and CEO of the Council on Foundations, 1982-1995. Collection includes correspondence, chronological files, calendars, clippings, memorabilia, notes, and administrative materials largely dating from Joseph's time as an undersecretary for the Department of the Interior and his ambassadorship to South Africa. Also included are some materials from his work for the Council on Foundations, largely dating from the late 1980s, and some awards and honors dating from the early 2000s. Some newspaper clippings dating from the 1960s discuss his Civil Rights work and ministerial activities. This material has not been processed and therefore no arrangement has been completed at this time. Acquired as part of the John Hope Franklin Research Center for African and African American History and Culture.
Founded in 1864, the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) is one of the oldest and largest enduring advertising agencies in the United States.
Founded in 1864, the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) is one of the oldest and largest enduring advertising agencies in the United States. Brouillard Communications, a division of JWT, was established in 1973 and specialized in business-to-business advertising and corporate communications. Brouillard closed in 2009. Collection includes correspondence and other printed materials, proofs and tear sheets, slides and videocassettes. Companies represented include Eaton, Irving Trust, Mellon Bank, New York Stock Exchange and Transamerica. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.ing and corporate communications. Brouillard closed in 2009. Collection iIncludes correspondence and other printed materials, proofs and tear sheets, slides and videocassettes. Companies represented include Eaton, Irving Trust, Mellon Bank, New York Stock Exchange and Transamerica. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Founded in 1864, the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) is one of the oldest and largest enduring advertising agencies in the United States. The Chicago Office opened in 1891.
Founded in 1864, the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) is one of the oldest and largest enduring advertising agencies in the United States.
The J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT), founded in 1864, is one of the largest and oldest enduring advertising agencies in the United States. The Diamond Information Center (DIC) operates as the public relations division of the diamond marketing group at J. Walter Thompson on behalf of De Beers Consolidated Mines, Ltd. The Diamond Information Center Vertical File spans the years from the 1930s to the 1980s and is chiefly an informational file of printed materials. The file was originally created when the N.W. Ayers advertising agency handled the De Beers account. The vertical file was transferred to JWT along with the account. JWT currently handles the advertising for De Beers diamonds. The file is organized into numbered, topical sections that cover a broad range of subjects relating to diamonds, the diamond industry, and the fashion design industry. Topics include: famous diamonds; the annual Diamonds International Awards; diamonds, diamond mining and trade in Africa (especially Angola and South Africa), Brazil, India, Russia and the United States; the analysis, classification, grading and cutting of gem-quality and industrial diamonds; public and private collectors, collections and exhibitions of diamonds, gems, precious stones and jewelry, including the crown jewels of European (particularly Great Britain), Russian and Indian monarchies; the history, advertising and marketing of diamonds, gems, precious stones and jewelry; the manufacture and mechanical properties of artificial diamonds and other precious stones; and the history, cultural and social aspects of the clothing and fashion design industry, with folders on individual designers, merchandisers, and fashion shows.
Founded in 1864, the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) was one of the oldest and largest advertising agencies in the United States. It was headquartered in New York. In 2023 the agency was absorbed into marketing and communications firm VML. The Domestic Advertisements Collection consists of print advertisements created by U.S. offices of the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT). The bulk of the collection dates from the 1920s and after, but a few examples are available from as early as 1875. Print advertisements appear in a variety of formats--magazine, newspaper, color, black-and-white, proofs, tearsheets, negative transfers, clippings, along with a limited number of sketches for outdoor advertising installations. Some of the advertisements feature work from notable artists, such as Norman Rockwell, and photographers like Edward Steichen, Irving Penn, and Baron De Meyer. In addition to the actual advertisements, the files dating from the 1910s to 1950s often contain insertion schedules that provide the dates and names of the magazines or newspapers in which a given advertisement appeared. In general, proofs for JWT's long-time clients have been saved more systematically than those for accounts that JWT did not hold for a long time. The collection does not include advertisements which have been transferred to microfilm (see the JWT Microfilm Collection). Also, advertisements created for clients that JWT lost prior to the 1940s are less likely to have been saved, although some were microfilmed and are still available in that form. For some JWT clients there are no print advertisements at all in this collection. Among the most extensive files of print advertisements are those for the following JWT clients: Champion Spark Plug, Chesebrough-Ponds, Eastman Kodak (Instamatic, Pocket Instamatic, and Disc cameras, Kodak film), Ford Motor Company (consumer and dealer advertisements), R.T. French, Irving Trust Bank, J. Walter Thompson Company (house advertisements), Kraft Foods (including Kraft cheeses, Miracle Whip, Philadelphia Cream Cheese, and Velveeta), Lever Brothers (Lifebuoy, Lux, Close Up, Mrs. Butterworth), Pan American World Airways (passenger jet travel, cargo transportation), Radio Corporation of America (RCA) (RCA Victor recordings, consumer goods, National Broadcasting Company), Reader's Digest, Scott Paper, Seven-Up, Standard Brands (Chase and Sandborn, Fleischmann, Royal, Tenderleaf tea), and Warner-Lambert (primarily Listerine, including advertisements produced by the Lambert and Feasley agency). Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History. The collection is continued by the J. Walter Thompson Company. Domestic advertisements, part 2.
Founded in 1864, the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) is one of the largest and oldest enduring advertising agencies in the United States. Harry Clark was an advertising executive who served as Director of JWT's Frankfurt Office and eventually of JWT's New York Office; Managing Director of Landsdowne Advertising, a JWT subsidiary; and co-founder of Smith Clark Associates, a consulting firm based in Princeton, N.J. The Harry Clark Papers cover the years 1945-1992, with the bulk of materials dating from the 1970s, the period during which Clark served as Director of the JWT Frankfurt Office, and during 1984-1986, when he served as Director of JWT in New York. The collection primarily consists of correspondence, administrative forms, presentations, speeches, meeting files, proofs, and financial reports, with extensive records from the Frankfurt Office. Companies represented include Braun, Chevron, De Beers, Eastman Kodak Company, Kellogg Company, Pan American Airways, PepsiCo, Rustenburg Platinum Mines, and Unilever. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Lois Gaeta was a television and radio script writer at the J. Walter Thompson (JWT) advertising agency from 1955 to 1961. The Lois Gaeta Papers span the years 1956 to 1961 and include television and radio scripts, filmed commercial spots, as well as print advertisements and packaging samples, that document Gaeta's work as a script and copy writer for JWT. Companies represented include Beecham Products (Eno), Blue Cross/Blue Shield, Colgate-Palmolive (Stripe toothpaste), Eastman Kodak, Mentholatum, Reader's Digest, and W.F. Young (Absorbine Jr.).
Founded in 1864, the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) is one of the oldest and largest enduring advertising agencies in the United States. Sharon Gordon worked as an assistant to Colin Dawkins in the New York Office.
Director of Research, Pacific Coast Manager, Manager of Berlin office, account representative, Vice President and Director of J. Walter Thompson Company, 1921-1963. The papers of Kennett Webb Hinks, an executive of the J. Walter Thompson Company, an advertising agency, span the years 1955-1963, and some are undated. The materials consist of copies of Hinks's outgoing office correspondence and memoranda. Letters discuss the planning of advertising campaigns for print, film and radio; market research; product design; selling strategies and advertising techniques; and budgeting. Many include summaries of business meetings. Correspondents include staff members, business associates and clients. The majority of the documents concern Lever Brothers Limited, manufacturer of a variety of soap and bathroom products. Other clients include the Wool Bureau and the New Holland Machine Company. There are frequent communications with other JWT offices in the United States and abroad. A limited amount of material pertains to Hinks's personal, business, and social affairs. Addition focuses on production issues pertaining to the Lever Brothers' Lux Radio and Video Theater program: casting, production services, properties (scripts, adaptations and tie-ins), ratings and reviews, move to a one-hour format, and other issues. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History. 
Founded in 1864, the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) is one of the oldest and largest enduring advertising agencies in the United States. Franklin C. Johnson served as Art Director and Creative Director for JWT and a number of other agencies.
The J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT), founded in 1864, is one of the oldest and largest enduring advertising agencies in the United States. Don Johnston held many positions at JWT, beginning his career as a trainee in the Detroit mailroom and retiring as CEO and President. The Don Johnston Papers span the years 1964-1996 and document his career in various positions with JWT. The collection includes international and domestic inter-office correspondence, personal and administrative files, management manuals, presentations, speeches, budgets, billings and profit reports, and video-cassettes that relate to planning for JWT projects, committee meetings, marketing research, contracts with clients, management directives, and JWT's corporate mission and philosophy. The papers also touch on Joseph O'Donnell's attempted hostile takeover of the JWT Group, and the purchase of JWT by the WPP Group. Clients represented include: Ford Motor Company, Unilever, Chevron, General Foods, and Uniroyal Tire. Offices represented include: Buenos Aires, Toronto, Chicago, Santiago, Detroit, Paris, Frankfurt, Bombay (Mumbai), London, Tokyo, New York, and Johannesburg.
Founded in 1864 in New York, the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) was one of the largest and oldest advertising agencies in the United States. In 2018 JWT merged with Wunderman to form Wunderman Thompson. The collection includes release forms, photographs and publications associated with JWT advertising campaigns; legal contracts outlining terms of agreement between clients and the agency; and other printed materials. Companies represented in the collection include Ford, Gillette, Kodak, Lever Brothers, Pacific Mills (Cocheco Manufacturing Company), Pan American , Quaker Oats, Radio Corporation of America (RCA), Seven-Up, Singer, and Uncle Ben's. Photographers mentioned or whose work appears in the collection include Richard Avedon, Ralph Bartholomew, Anton Bruehl, Horst, Otto Mayo, Valentino Sarra, and Francesco Scavullo. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Founded in 1864, the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) is one of the oldest and largest enduring advertising agencies in the United States. It is headquartered in New York. The London Office first opened in 1899. David Baker was an executive with JWT London and JWT Europe 1968-2001. Collection includes correspondence, market research reports, advertising campaign planning and strategy documents, print advertisements and other printed materials. Companies represented include Elizabeth Arden, Heineken, J&B Scotch, Jaguar, Kraft, Scott Paper, Unilever and Warner-Lambert. Materials in English, German and Spanish. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Founded in 1864, the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) is one of the oldest and largest enduring advertising agencies in the United States. The JWT London Office opened in 1899. Terry Bullen was an advertising executive at the JWT London Office who worked in New Business and as Director of Planning before retiring in 2001. The J. Walter Thompson Company London Office Terry Bullen Papers span the years 1979-2002 and consist primarily of presentations and research reports made by JWT. Clients represented include Allied Breweries, Ansell's Bitter (Carlsberg), Beconase (GlaxoSmithKline), British Airports Authority (BAA), Esso, Golden Wonder, Mr. Kipling, Tetley, and Warner Lambert Health Care. Also included are videocassettes, CD-R's and awards information. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Advertising executive with J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) London Office and Director of JWT European operations. Collection includes correspondence, financial records, operations status reports, presentations and other printed materials. Companies represented include De Beers. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Advertising executive and media specialist with J. Walter Thompson Company's London Office and JWT Europe. Collection includes correspondence, research reports, articles, presentations and other printed materials. Companies represented include CIA Media, De Beers, Nestle, Ogilvy & Mather, Revlon and Rimmel. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Founded in 1864, the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) is one of the oldest and largest enduring advertising agencies in the United States. It is headquartered in New York. The London Office first opened in 1899. Charles Friend was an executive in the JWT London Office and Area Director with JWT's European Division. Collection consists of correspondence, periodical reports and other printed materials documenting the management of various JWT offices in Europe. The bulk of correspondence pertains to JWT offices in Denmark, Portugal and Sweden. Topics of correspondence include coordination of client relations and advertising campaigns, relocation of staff, agency performance. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Founded in 1864, the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) is one of the oldest and largest enduring advertising agencies in the United States. It is headquartered in New York. The London Office first opened in 1899. J. Walter Thompson Group Ltd. was a holding company formed in 1980. Collection includes contracts, directors' reports, meeting minutes and other printed materials. Companies represented include Art Control, Lansdowne, Trushelfco, and WPP Group. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Founded in 1864, the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) is one of the oldest and largest enduring advertising agencies in the United States. The London Office first opened in 1899. Collection includes published media reports, corporate documentation, research reports, texts of presentations, correspondence, as well as casting and other production notes that document the Media Department's administrative operations as well as participation in creation of television advertising. Companies represented include BBC, British Telecom, Brooke Bond Oxo, Ford, Golden Wonder (now a subsidiary of Tayto), Kellogg, Kodak, McCann Erickson, Ogilvy & Mather; Rowntree, Scott Andrex (now part of Kimberly-Clark), St. Ivel (now part of Dairy Crest), Superchannel, Thames Television, TSB Bank, and Young & Rubicam. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Founded in 1864, the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) is one of the oldest and largest enduring advertising agencies in the United States. It is headquartered in New York. The JWT London office first opened in 1899. Anthony Rau was an executive with the London office whose career spanned the 1960s-1980s. Collection includes correspondence, research and status reports, brochures and other printed materials, and other materials that document Rau's work at JWT London in new business acquisition and JWT's charitable efforts. Companies represented include British Petroleum (BP), British Rail, Charities Aid Foundation, Singer, RCA, Tesco and United Biscuits. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History. 
Founded in 1864, the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) is one of the oldest and largest enduring advertising agencies in the United States. The JWT San Francisco office was opened in 1923. The JWT San Francisco Office Records span the years 1959-1999, and includes advertising proofs, commercial artwork, print schedules, marketing plans, manuals, company history materials, correspondence, Creative Library catalogs and audiovisual materials (audio cassettes, VHS video cassettes and videotapes). Also included are the papers of Harry A. Lee, a JWT executive involved in the development of JWT's Pacific Rim business during the 1960s. Companies represented in the collection include California Raisin Advisory Board, Dean Witter, Ferry-Morse Seed Company, Labatt's, Morris Plan, and Schlage. JWT offices touched on in the collection include New York, Manila (Philippines) and Tokyo (Japan). Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Founded in 1864, the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) is one of the oldest and largest enduring advertising agencies in the United States. It is headquartered in New York. Bill Sharfman was an executive who worked in strategic planning for JWT USA in New York as well as for the JWT subsidiary Brouillard Communications before opening his own agency, Sharfman & Co. The J. Walter Thompson Company Bill Sharfman papers include correspondence, speeches, research and policy reports and other printed materials, as well as audiovisual materials (video- and audio cassettes). Companies represented include Brouillard Communications, Chevron (Standard Oil of California), Ernst & Young (PACE Awards), GM, Goodyear, Harvard Business School, Kodak, Olivetti, Renault, Rockefeller Center, St. Ivel (Dairy Crest), Tayto (Golden Wonder), Televisión Nacional de Chile, and McNeil (Tylenol). Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Established in 1864, the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) is one of the oldest and largest enduring advertising agencies in the United States. Collection spans the years 1895-2006 and includes research reports, policy manuals, correspondence, writings and presentations and other materials documenting JWT's history and operations. It is an artificial collection that gathers a large number of small accessions and loose materials discovered during periodic cleanup and inventory of archival stacks and office spaces. Also included are some videocassettes and audio tapes. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing history.
Founded in 1864, the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) is one of the oldest and largest enduring advertising agencies in the United States. It is headquartered in New York. Collection consists chiefly of verbatim minutes of a variety of staff meetings held at the New York and Chicago offices of JWT. Also included are advertisements, photographs, articles, and other printed material attached to minutes as background material or supplemental reading for the meetings. A set of subject indexes are included for some of the meeting series. Topics discussed include account histories, case studies and company profiles; activities of international and domestic JWT offices including country profiles; advertising and client relations during a depression; development and use of advertising media (film, outdoor, print, radio, television); general business and economic conditions; market research; new business activity; promotional techniques (coupons, merchandising, retail store displays); the structure and function of various JWT departments; and social trends. Companies frequently mentioned include Andrew Jergens, Cutex, General Motors, J.C. Penney, Johns-Manville, Lever Brothers, Kraft, Pennsylvania Railroad, and Standard Brands. Speakers include Alfred Harcourt, Arno Johnson, Clarence Darrow, Claude Hooper, Daniel Starch, Edward Steichen, Fanny Bell, John B. Watson, John U. Reber, Kennett Hinks, Margaret Bourke-White, Paul T. Cherington, Rudy Vallee, Ruth Waldo, Sam Meek, Stanley Resor, Will Hays, and William Esty. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
In 1994, J. Walter Thompson Co. used its archives at Duke University and information from many offices to create three audiovisual modules on JWT history. Kodak account director Ernie Emerling managed the project. Accession (2009-0185) (50 items; 0.6 lin. ft.; dated 1990-1995) consists of miscellaneous items used in creating the Traveling Archives. Includes submissions on innovations and milestones in JWT advertising by several international offices, including Japan, India, Brazil, and Spain. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Materials from the aftermath of the earthquake that struck the Japanese region of KantoÌ„ on September 1, 1923. Includes a map of Tokyo and the disaster area; another map of the fire in Tokyo, with text in English and Japanese; a copy of the special issue International Graphic Magazine from September/October 1923; a photo-illustrated pamphlet; 18 postcards with color-tinted photographs; and a scrapbook of photographs and newsprint about the event. An additional 120 postcards, largely black-and-white photographs (some with captions), were added in 2016.
Author, teacher, naturalist, environmental activist, and World Bank consultant Wallace Vickers Kaufman was a 1961 graduate of Duke University's Trinity College majoring in English. Collection contains correspondence, reports, journals, and miscellaneous material relating primarily to Kaufman's environmental activism and as a real estate and entrepreneurial consultant. The collection also contains material documenting his friendship with Reynolds Price, a former instructor of Kaufman's at Duke, specifically correspondence, manuscripts, and several typescripts of Price's work.
Autograph manuscript letter with postmarked envelope from the actress and writer Fanny Kemble in London to Miss Patteson in Andover, 10 May, 1889. Kemble thanks Miss Patteson for sending photographs, mentioning that she particularly values one of Bishop Patteson. She says she is "glad Lord Coleridge thought Lenox (Mass.) pretty. It has always seemed to me a charming mountain village." Frances Anne "Fanny" Kemble was a British actress, writer, and abolitionist. She was born into a theater family; her acting career spanned the years 1829-1868. Kemble acted to support herself, but she was most passionate about writing, and was an accomplished playwright, poet, and diarist. She married the Pierce Mease Butler, an American who subsequently inherited his family' plantations. After spending time in Georgia, Kemble became an abolitionist and later divorced her husband. In 1863, Kemble published her anti-slavery memoir, Journal of a Residence on a Georgian Plantation in 1838-1839, which is said to have influenced the British against supporting the Confederacy in the Civil War. Kemble's own family was divided on that issue, as her elder daughter sided with her mother, while her younger daughter returned to Georgia with her father. Frances Butler Leigh published Ten Years on a Georgia Plantation Since the War (1883) as a rebuttal to her mother's memoir. Kemble's success as a Shakespearean actress enabled her to buy a cottage in Lenox, Massachusetts. Her correspondent, Miss Patteson, is the daughter of Frances Duke Patteson, a niece of the poet Samuel Coleridge Taylor; the Lord Coleridge mentioned in the letter is John Duke Coleridge (1820-1894), the 2nd Lord Chief Justice of England. Bishop Patteson refers to Miss Patteson's sister, John Patteson (1827-1871), who became an Anglican martyr after being killed doing mission work in the Solomon Islands.
Collection of 31 black-and-white photographs by André Kertész provides a sampling of his compositional styles and topical interests. Taken from 1919 through 1984, the images chiefly feature street scenes from Paris (1920-1984), and several each from Budapest and New York City. There are also two female nude studies from his 1930s series "Distortions," two still lifes, and several landscapes. The majority of the gelatin silver prints are sized 8x10 inches, with four measuring 11x14 inches. On the backs are various markings, including dates and identifying marks by Kertész and others, with many bearing a Kertész estate stamp. Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
Susan Ketchin was an author, editor, and educator. The Susan Ketchin Papers contain correspondence, manuscripts of her writings and the writings of others, reviews, publications, printed matter, teaching materials, and other papers relating principally to her work with the St. Andrews Review, Southern Exposure, the Algonquin Press, and the Duke Young Writers Camp. Some papers also concern free-lance work. Access to the Roper, Benson, and August House papers is restricted. One large group of materials was generated in the process of producing and writing The Christ-Haunted Landscape: Faith and Doubt in Southern Fiction. These materials include research files, audio tapes of interviews with authors featured in the book (Doris Betts, Randall Kenan, Allan Gurganus, Lee Smith, Larry Brown, Sheila Bosworth, and others), and typescripts. Other authors represented in the papers but whose interview tapes are not present are Reynolds Price and Clyde Edgerton. A video featuring Lee Smith is also included.
Methodist minister from Salisbury (Rowan Co.), N.C., King was executive secretary of the Methodist Board of Education of the Western North Carolina Conference, 1934-1967. His wife, Mary Eskridge King, was active in affairs of the Methodist Episcopal Church, South, and president of the Women's Society of Christian Service of the Western North Carolina Conference, 1960-1964. The papers of Carl Howie King and of Mary Eskridge King span the dates 1918-1973, and document aspects of Methodism and politics and social movements in North Carolina during the later 20th century. Types of materials chiefly consist of correspondence, meeting and conference files, and biographical material on Carl and Mary King. Mary King's papers form the majority of the collection and document her extensive involvement in the Methodist Church and its organizations; topics of interest include Christian education, political conservatism and the John Birch Society, the Civil Rights movement, prayer in schools, the Vietnam War, student unrest, and communism. Carl King's papers include correspondence, writings, and notes from his student days at Trinity College, now Duke University, and Yale University.
Robin Kirk is the Faculty co-chair of the Duke University Human Rights Center at the Franklin Humanities Institute. At the time these files were created, Kirk was serving both as a journalist and a Human Rights Watch researcher. Subject files include notes; research materials; newspaper clippings, magazines; reports, many from human rights organizations; correspondence; copies of governmental documents; notebooks; and other items on human rights, primarily in Peru. There are small amounts of material related to Colombia, Haiti and the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, and Bolivia. Publications primarily address politics and human rights issues, particularly in Colombia.
Copywriter and advertising executive with Gimbels and Macy's department stores and the Ogilvy & Mather agency. 
Advertising executive who worked for Benton & Bowles and Young & Rubicam agencies in New York, Germany and Sweden. Collection includes print advertisements, storyboards, sketches, scripts for radio and television commercials, photographs, slides, other printed materials, audio tape reels and television commercials on videotape and 16mm and 35mm films. Companies represented include Benton & Bowles, Bushmill's, Chesebrough-Pond's, Drackett (Nutrament), Eastern Airlines, General Foods (Sanka, Yuban), Goodyear, Gulf Oil, Kemp Seafood, Piels beer, Procter & Gamble, Texaco, Trygg Hansa, United Fruit (Chiquita) and Young & Rubicam. Materials are in English, German and Swedish. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History. 
Joan Harris and Lane Pryce are fictitious characters in the television drama Mad Men (2007-2015), set in a New York advertising agency during the 1960s. Consists of a letter from Pryce to Harris, dated October 7, 1965, promoting Harris to the position of Director of Agency Operations. The letter was a prop used in Season 4, Episode 13, "Tomorrowland" that originally aired on 2010 October 17. Included are an envelope bearing the Sterling Cooper Draper Pryce logo and an certificate of authenticity. Acquired as part the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Daniel William Lassiter was a physician of Petersburg, Va. Collection comprises correspondence and other papers of Daniel William Lassiter, and of his sons, Francis Rives Lassiter, lawyer and U.S. Representative from Virginia, and Charles Trotter Lassiter, politician. Much of the correspondence concerns the political career of Francis R. Lassiter. Includes information on Confederate recruitment, politicians after the Civil War, Presidential elections, the Virginia militia, and economic conditions in the U.S. Correspondents include Henry Mills Alden, Thomas Baily Aldrich, John Hollis Bankhead, Harry Flood Byrd, Champ Clark, John Warwick Daniel, Henry De La War Flood, Carter Glass, Epps Hunton, Jr., Fitzhugh Lee, Arthur Lefevre, William Gordon McCabe, Thomas Staples Martin, John Garland Pollard, Furnifold McLendel Simmons, Charles Augustus Swanson, Henry St. George Tucker, Lyon Gardiner Tyler, and Edward Carrington Venable.
Sarah Wallis Bowdich Lee was an English naturalist, author, and illustrator. This collection consists of an untitled, apparently unpublished, 1830s manuscript (439 pages) surveying the African continent and discussing African exploration, history, geography, and culture from a white British colonialist perspective.
Clare Ellaline Hope Leighton was an English printmaker who immigrated to the United States in 1939. The Clare Leighton Papers date from the mid-twentieth century and include woodblocks, preparatory prints and drawings, engravings, and correspondence related to Leighton's artistic practice.
Axel Leijonhufvud (1933-2022) was a professor emeritus of economics at the University of California, Los Angeles. This collection documents his professional life through his correspondence, writings, and research. Acquired as part of the Economists' Papers Archive.
Advertising agency founded 1935 in Chicago, Ill. Collection consists of a research report on the construction of a hydroelectric power plant and aluminum manufacturing facility in British Columbia by the Aluminum Company of Canada (later ALCAN). Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Teacher; foundation administrator and consultant. Correspondence, speeches, writings, clippings, and pictures, all related to the life and career of Robert Lester. Correspondence and clippings cover every facet of his career: teacher and superintendent of schools in Mayfield, Ky.; service in the Army in World War I, library, teaching, and administrative positions at Columbia University; his involvement with Duke University and with major fundraising organizations such as the Carnegie Corporation, and the Council of Southern Universities, where he was director of the Southern Fellowship Fund. One volume of memoranda from the Southern Fellowship Fund includes a 1966 proposal for faculty development among predominantly Afro-american colleges and universities. Lester's addresses and speeches chiefly concern education, philanthropy, and library issues. Collection also includes papers relating to other Lester family members, and to Lester's Chapel in Shelby County, Alabama.
The Jere Link papers comprise his private diaries and journals, creative and scholarly writings, lecture notes and teaching materials, along with incoming correspondence. Diaries and journals contain Link's personal thoughts and comments on his life, activities, creative and scholarly work, and relationships. Link was very open regarding his inner thoughts and concerns, and very frank about his sexual activities and his life as a gay man. His writings include general notebooks with drafts of creative work, screenplays, book proposals and drafts, Link's dissertation, along with articles, poetry, and short stories. There are teaching materials primarily featuring Link's handwritten lecture notes for his classes, along with additional related maps, handouts, photographs, exams and other materials. In addition, there are incoming personal letters and cards, along with some professional letters regarding Link's institutional appointments, writing, and Fulbright travel grant.
Three annual diaries (1923-1925) kept by Nestia V. Lloyd, a young woman (b. 1902) living with her parents in London and Wales.
Archivist and historian; chief of Foreign Affairs Branch at the U.S. National Archives. Collection consists of the biographical and professional files of Carl Ludwig Lokke, who was on the staff of the National Archives for many years. Material includes copies of his own research papers and many folders of research notes on his specialty, 18th century French colonialism in the West Indies colonies, and more specifically on the life and career of colonial administrator Baron Pierre-Victor Malouet, who was active mainly in French Guiana. There are also many transcriptions and photocopies of primary documents from archives in France and other repositories, as well as some microfilms. Other material includes Lokke's work files from the National Archives.
These 75 black-and-white (11) and color (64) exhibit photographs were selected from 297 images collected online from the crowdsourced project, "Looking at Appalachia," directed by documentarian Roger May. They were taken by 51 photographers from a wide range of backgrounds and aesthetics, from a hobbyist retired coal miner to a young photojournalist working regularly for The New York Times. States represented include: Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky, Maryland, Mississippi, North Carolina, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia. Subjects include portraits of people, rural landscapes, and farm and town life, with social events predominating. Sizes range from 14x23 to 16x20 inches, along with several 3.25 x 4.25 inch prints. Acquired by the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
Alice Houston Luiggi was an author, of New York City. Collection comprises research material gathered by Mrs. Luiggi for her book, "65 Valiants" (University of Florida Press, 1965) concerning American teachers who helped establish teacher education and public schools in Argentina during the 1870s and 1880s. 
Founded in 1937 in Clarkesville (Habersham Co.), Ga. by Morris Randolph Mitchell; took name from nearby Baptist Church; comprised of families and individuals who worked collectively on the dairy, agricultural, forestry, and woodworking projects which provided the economic underpinnings of the community; originally an economic cooperative, Macedonia later passed through two distinct phases before its demise in 1958; at end of WWII an infusion of former civilian public service men, including conscientious objectors who had served prison sentences, joined the cooperative bringing an emphasis on pacifism; last stages of cooperative lasted from 1953-1957 when members of group explored the possibility of merging with the religious community known as the Society of Brothers (Bruderhof); in 1958 Macedonia ceased to be a separate community and property was sold at public auction on June 27, 1958. Collection comprises 4 flyers regarding the various wooden block sets made by the community for children.
Correspondence, diary, account books, ledgers, bills, receipts, business records, legal papers, and other material of the MacRae family of North Carolina and Florida. Alexander MacRae's papers concern Florida plantations and their management, the Seminole Indian War (1842), and settlements in southern Florida. Papers of his son, Archibald MacRae, deal with his life aboard ship as a U.S. naval officer, and with his trips to the Azores, Italy, Sicily, Hawaii, South America, and California during the Mexican War. Other papers pertain to railroad construction and management, North Carolina militia (1832, 1839), a general commission business, life in the Confederacy and Confederate Army during the Civil War, postwar business and industrial development in the Wilmington, N.C., area, and a variety of business enterprises with which the MacRae family was connected. Includes writings and papers of Hugh MacRae.
Best-selling author and daytime television writer from Durham, N.C. The collection chiefly contains drafts and galleys of Malone's novels and other writings, personal and professional correspondence, and teaching materials. Also included are contracts and royalty statements, book tour materials and other promotional materials, videocassettes, audiocassettes, newspaper reviews and clippings, and digital files. The bulk of materials relate to Malone's career as a novelist and as a writer for the popular soap operas One Life to Live and Another World.
Collection comprises a photograph album featuring 405 color photographs (ranging in size from 2.5" x 3.5" to 4" x 6", primarily 3.5" x 5") and black-and-white publicity stills documenting members of Mama Galore and their friends while at home, backstage, and on tour. Images capture performances, make-up and other performance prep, performer's pets, and general gatherings. Also includes many ephemeral items, including obituaries, news clippings, clippings of performers mentioned in Etcetera Magazine, flyers, greeting cards, and several inscribed publicity stills.
David Mamet, b. 30 Nov., 1947, Chicago; was a writer, director, producer, and actor; sometimes credited as Richard Weisz. Collection comprises the bound typescript of Mamet's 1999 play Boston Marriage, which uncharacteristically focused on female leads, and was set at the turn of the 20th century. The manuscript is 137 pages, printed on rectos only, bound in printed yellow cardstock with the Rosentone Wender Agency address in NY. Inscribed by Mamet: "To Gwen. For a loyal friend of the A.R.T. [American Repertory Theater] -- some merchandise for your loyalty. May it amuse you, provoke your ire, shim up a chair, or start a fire. Love - David Mamet." With an additional doodle (of the author wearing an A.R.T. baseball cap) and his Mamet stamp, which also appears on the front cover. The script has a print date of December 1998, more than six months before the play premiered. The inscription has a date of June 3, 1999, about two weeks before the June 16 premiere at A.R.T. The recipient was on the Advisory Board of the theater and also a major donor to it. In a folding chemise and custom clamshell case.
The Morris and Dorothy Margolin film collection dates from 1947 to 1982 and includes twenty-five 16mm and seven Super 8 motion picture films created by Morris Margolin, chiefly documenting Morris and Dorothy's international travels. The films include footage from Pakistan, Bulgaria, Ethiopia, and Kenya -- rare destinations for Western travelers in the 1950s, 1960s, and 1970s. Highlights include an abundance of images of the Soviet Union and Israel, and images of Capetown documenting the apartheid years. All of the films are color, and a few include sound elements such as narration, music, or even sound effects. The collection also includes a handful of home movies that document family trips and events such as graduations and birthdays, and one film that appears to be a professionally produced documentary about the Soviet Union. The films are complemented by over 4,000 color slides of still images taken during their travels. The collection, arranged chronologically, also includes Digital Betacam preservation tapes, DVD masters and DVD use copies.
Farmer, banker, and Union Cavalry officer of Caledonia, Minnesota. Collection includes correspondence, diaries, writings, legal documents, printed material, record books, scrapbooks, and photographs, chiefly relating to Marshall's military service with Brackett's Battalion, Minnesota Cavalry, in Kentucky, Tennessee, and Alabama (1862-1864) and on the Northwest Indian expedition (1864-1865). Diaries include comments on his immigration from Brockton, MA to Minnesota in 1853, and on secessionist spirit in Texas, 1859-1860. Letters from his sister reflect impact of immigrants on Brockton, 1890-1910. Includes material documenting aspects of the Dakota Territory in the 1860s; Plains Indians; Red River carts; the impact of the Civil War on southern unionists, middle Tennessee, and African Americans; religion; education; the status of women; towns in southeastern New England, upper Middle West, Tennessee, and Mississippi River Valley; and Ignatius Donnelly, Horace Mann, and William T. Sherman.
Thomas Mayer (1927-2015) was a professor emeritus of economics at the University of California, Davis. This collection documents his professional life through his correspondence and writings. It was acquired as part of the Economists' Papers Archive.
John Moore McCalla was a militia officer and civil servant, of Lexington, Ky., and Washington, D.C. Collection contains correspondence, receipt books, scrapbooks, family cookbook, and other papers, relating to Civil War politics; local Kentucky politics (1820-1870); the Mexican War; presidential politics, especially Polk's election (1844) and the second inauguration of Abraham Lincoln; the American Colonization Society; American Party; and the family's opposition to Henry Clay. Includes a journal of John Moore McCalla, Jr., describing a journey to Liberia in 1860 and his activities in Washington in 1861. Also contains letters from former McCalla slaves in Liberia, and letters of John M. McCalla, Sr.'s father, Dr. Andrew J. McCalla, including several discussing the treatment of the insane and the Eastern Lunatic Asylum in Lexington, Ky. Includes records of James M. Varnum and Joseph M. Varnum's estates, inherited through Helen Varnum Hill McCalla. Also contains family papers including letter books, notes, finances, and miscellany.
William Allen McFadden (1904-1991), Methodist minister from Indiana, graduate of DePauw, Boston University School of Theology, and Union Seminary in New York. He was a lifelong pacifist and social justice worker. His wife was Glenora English McFadden (1910-2001) and her mother was Estella Graves English (1885-1960). The McFaddens had three children: Margaret McFadden (whose papers are also housed in the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture), Edith Collins, and David McFadden. This collection consists of numerous accessions containing correspondence, audiocassettes, diaries, photographs, yearbooks, printed materials, newspaper clippings, and other miscellaneous materials, largely produced by William and Glenora McFadden during their courtship and marriage, 1921-1991. Also included is correspondence from Glenora McFadden's mother, Estella Graves English, and correspondence from Margaret McFadden, the McFaddens' daughter. Please consult the Collection Overview below for more information about the materials in each accession.
John B. McFerrin was a professor of finance at the University of Florida, as well as a past president of the Southern Economic Association. He received his Ph.D. from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, writing his dissertation on Caldwell and Company. McFerrin's book, Caldwell and Company: A Southern Financial Empire, was first published in 1939 and updated in 1969. Includes documents (the majority dating from the 1920s-1930s) gathered by McFerrin during the research and writing of his book Caldwell and Company: A Southern Financial Empire, and two copies of the book.
John Sidney and Doris Thompson McGee were Baptist missionaries to Iwo, Igede-Ekiti, and Ikogosi, Nigeria from 1945-1977. They had two children, John David and Sidney. The McGee Family Papers represent the life work of two missionaries, John Sidney and Doris McGee. John and Doris were appointed to Nigeria in 1945 by the Foreign Mission Board of the Southern Baptist Convention, and served eight consecutive tours of service. The current collection contains collection information, correspondence between the McGee family members as John and Doris served in Nigeria, as well as correspondence between other missionaries, the personal papers of Doris, John S. and John David McGee, printed materials and publications about mission work and life in Nigeria (including books authored by members of the McGee family), hundreds of photographs related to the McGee's work, and audio-visual materials.
Charles C. Chick McKinney founded and headed the McKinney & Silver (M&S) advertising agency for 22 years, where he held positions of President and Chief Executive Officer. The agency, originally based in Raleigh, N.C., and presently headquartered in Durham, N.C., is one of the largest advertising agencies in the Southeastern U.S. The Charles McKinney Papers cover the years 1952-1993, with the bulk of materials dating from 1968-1990, the period during which McKinney served as President and CEO of the McKinney & Silver (M&S) advertising agency. The collection primarily consists of correspondence, memoranda, clippings, M&S presentations to clients, proofs, speeches, reports, McKinney's handwritten drafts of advertising campaigns, and numerous brochures from graphic artists and design companies. The collection also includes films of advertising spots, slides for new business presentations, and many periodicals related to advertising and graphic design. Companies represented in the collection include American Drew; Bacardi Corporation; Bahamas; Barnett Banks; Benihana; Beatrice Foods Company; Bigelow-Sanford Carpet Company; Black & Decker Corporation; Braniff Airways; Brown & Forman Inc.; Brown & Williamson; Colours; Del Monte Corporation; Drackett; Dunlop Sport, GoodMark Foods, Inc.; Gravely; Homelite; Kingsdown; Mars, Inc.; North Carolina National Bank; North Carolina Travel and Tourism; Norweigan Cruise Line; PET Dairy; Piedmont Airlines, Inc.; Pillsbury Company; Pine State; Quincy's; Royal Caribbean Cruise Line; Tile Council of America; Travelmation; and USAir Group, Inc.
Family of Irish origin living in Pennsylvania, Baltimore, and Washington, D.C. Family and business correspondence and invention papers of an Irish Catholic family living in Pennsylvania, Baltimore, Md., and Washington, D.C., whose members engaged in promoting inventions. The papers center on John Francis McMullen (1830-1900), and his wife, Lavelette (Johnson) McMullen. Includes letters from relatives in Ireland, from Virginia cousins and friends, from nuns of the Order of the Visitation of Holy Mary, from business acquaintances, from friends traveling in the U.S. and Europe, and from the novelist Mary Johnston; and papers relating to the settlement of a disputed legacy left to Mary McMullen by Miss Jane Agnes Riggs, the last of the children of George Washington Riggs, Washington banker. Also includes manuscripts of the Confederate poet, John Banister Tabb, writings of Dysart and Mary McMullen, letters and poems of William Hand Browne, editor, author, and librarian, and correspondence of Mary McMullen which gives glimpses of the Riggs family.
Twenty 17x22-inch color inkjet prints from the body of work "Le pido a Dios que no me olviden," or "I ask God that you not forget me," by photographer Veronica Melendez document the Latin American community in the Washington, D.C. metro area, primarily in Maryland and Virginia. The images are of people, cultural events, religious scenes, and symbols that recall faraway countries of origin as well as contemporary realities in these Latin American communities. Melendez's work received the 2018 ADA Collection Award for Documentarians of the American South. Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
Consists predominantly of circuit plans from the Methodist Church (Great Britain) and the earlier churches that merged to form it in 1907 and 1932: the Wesleyan Methodist Church, the Primitive Methodist Church, the United Methodist Free Churches, and the United Methodist Church (Great Britain). These circuit plans, collected by Frank Baker, document the history, growth, and organization of the itinerancy, established by John Wesley in the early years of the church when Methodism began to spread into the rural areas of England. The plans feature detailed schedules of where the itinerant preachers, known as circuit riders, were to appear and preach each week.
Terence Mitchell is a collector and expert on collectible cigarette cards. This collection contains a wide assortment of trading cards, collectible silks and fabrics, pins, and tobacco cartons and packs acquired by Mitchell. Most date to the early twentieth century.
Pyschiatrist of Villejuif and Moiselles, France. The collection (300 items; dated 1914-1975) contains the papers of Marcel Montassut, a noted French psychiatrist who worked in the Hôpital Psychiatrique de Villejuif as Médecin-Chef from 1942 to 1960. Montassut's papers are primarily research-oriented and include several of his publications, notes on particular subject areas, and reviews of work in the field of psychiatry. Also present are civil and military documents pertaining to Montassut, as well as correspondence between colleagues, including the noted French psychiatrist Léon Chertok. The bulk of his research is founded in studies on depression, melancholia, and epilepsy. Additionally, the papers include documents related to his professional involvement as interim director at the Centre Neuro-Psychiatrique de Moiselles and as president of the Société Française de Médecine Psychosomatique.
The collection documents the personal, political, and professional aspects of the life of an important feminist writer of the twentieth century. The largest group of materials consists of documentation on all of Morgan's significant written works: DEMON LOVER; DEPTH PERCEPTION; DRY YOUR SMILE; GOING TOO FAR; A HOT JANUARY; LADY OF THE BEASTS; SATURDAY'S CHILD; her well-known feminist anthologies, SISTERHOOD IS POWERFUL, SISTERHOOD IS GLOBAL and SISTERHOOD IS FOREVER; and other materials on her poems, articles, and other writings. In addition, Morgan's papers hold many items of correspondence with a wide range of individuals, including prominent activists and feminists as well as family members and close friends. There is also a significant amount of correspondence and other material that documents Morgan's role as founder of the Sisterhood is Global Institute, and records related to her role as editor and writer for MS. magazine.
Ruth "Peach Pie" Webb Morgan is an African American native of Granville County, North Carolina. The collection contains material collected by Morgan from the church-related "Women's Conference" held at the Oxford Public Works Complex in Oxford, North Carolina in 1999, 2001, 2002, and 2004. Items include handouts, photographs, meeting agendas, and notebooks. The materials offer insights into the status and relationships of African American women in North Carolina, and their church-related affiliations and activities. Acquired as part of the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture.
Beverly Preston Morriss was a physician of Amherst Co. Va. Collection includes correspondence and personal and professional papers of Morriss and of his family (chiefly 1848-1947). The material refers to the Civil War, medical administration in the Confederate Army, enslaved people, professional and family matters, and politics. Includes printed matter (mainly 1850-1875) concerned with politics and social reform.
Law professor at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Former president of the North Carolina Center for Death Penalty Litigation. Legal files, transcripts, and motions from the case of John Wesley Oliver, a former death row inmate in North Carolina. Includes materials from his initial trial with co-defendant George Moore and subsequent appeals in North Carolina's court system. Acquired as part of the Human Rights Archive.
The Munford and Ellis families were connected through the marriage of George Wythe Munford and Elizabeth Throwgood Ellis in 1838. The earliest papers from the Munford family center around William Munford (1775-1825) of the first generation, George Wythe Munford (1803-1882) of the second generation, and the children of George Wythe Munford, notably Thomas Taylor Munford (1831-1918), Sallie Radford (Munford) Talbott (1841-1930), Lucy Munford and Fannie Ellis Munford. Papers of the Ellis family begin with those of Charles Ellis, Sr. (1772-1840), Richmond merchant; his wife, Margaret (Nimmo) Ellis (1790-1877); and his brother, Powhatan Ellis (1790-1863), jurist, U.S. senator, and diplomat. Later materials include letters from Thomas Harding Ellis (1814-1898), son of Charles and Margaret Ellis, as well as some materials from their other children and grandchildren. Collection contains family, personal, and business papers of three generations of the Munford and the Ellis families of Virginia. The papers contain information on politics, literary efforts, social life and customs, economic conditions, and military questions principally in nineteenth century Virginia. Includes materials on the Civil War and Reconstruction.
Senior Seaman Nagano was a navy volunteer flight trainee at Sasebo Air Base in Japan during World War II. Collection comprises a photograph album maintained by Senior Seaman Nagano during his training at Sasebo Air Base during World War II. Contains 79 albumen and gelatin silver photographs, ranging in size from 2.25 x 1.5-inches to 5.875 x 4.25-inches, as well as a few additional paper images that Nagano cut out and pasted into the album. The majority of the photographs are captioned. There are group photographs of the entire school as well as Nagano's class. Photograph topics include physical exercise and judo, drills, formation, and Navy memorial day ceremonies. In addition, there are formal portraits of individuals as well as group portraits of those Nagano knew in flight school and from his hometown. There are also casual images of Nagano's family members, along with a formal portraits, including one of Nagano with his parents. The album cover is decorated with naval and flight images; the cover has become separated from the album.
The National Coalition for Haitian Rights (NCHR) operated between 1982 and 2006, advocating for the rights of Haitians in the United States, Haiti, and the Caribbean. The NCHR records contain the organization's administrative records, program and project files, legal files, extensive subject files, as well as a large collection of print materials.
The North Carolina Self-Portrait Photography Collection includes copy negatives, contact sheets, prints, information sheets, agreements, and voice recordings created as part of the North Carolina Self-Portrait Project, undertaken to build an archive of images and other materials documenting the experiences of African American families in the South. The photographs were assembled by requesting copy photographs from African American families primarily in North Carolina, but a few locations in Mississippi were also included. Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
The collection consists of three bound volumes belonging to Hugh M. Nelson, a resident of Long Branch, Virginia (Clarke County).
Ledger of an unknown merchant in New Bern, N.C. Transactions appear chronologically by account holder, and reflect the sale of general merchandise, such as cloth and clothing, food, rum, seed, pitch, tar, and turpentine. Accounts were settled with either cash or goods. Formerly known as Anonymous ledger C, 1767-1776.
North Carolina family active in education, law enforcement, farming, and slavery. The bulk of the papers relate to Nathan Carter Newbold and his relatives, including his father William A. Newbold and grandfather William Newbold (Sheriff of Pasquotank County, North Carolina), his first wife Mabel Wooten, and his second wife Eugenia Bradsher. Nathan Carter Newbold was the Director of the Division of Negro Education for the North Carolina State Department of Public Instruction from 1913-1950. The collection includes personal and professional correspondence, photographs, financial and property records dating from the 1840s, and recorded speeches given at Nathan Carter Newbold's retirement dinner. Some photographs have been identified as being of South Carolina during the late 19th century-early 20th century, which include portraits, street scenes (in Charleston), sail boats, as well as a few photographs of people of color, including photographs of "Lascar Sailors."Some photographs are of the U.S. Military Academy at West Point during the 1890s. Many of the legal and financial papers were generated by Nathan Carter Newbold's father and grandfather. The bulk of the correspondence relates to Nathan Carter Newbold's role as an administrator for North Carolina public schools and to his tenure as the Director of the Division of Negro Education during segregation and Jim Crow.
Company based in New York City, N.Y. Collection comprises an incomplete contract featuring penciled-in details regarding New York City outdoor advertising locations or "bulletins," the size of the space, and the cost of advertising there.
General hospital founded in 1771 in New York, N.Y. Print advertisements for nursing profession recruitment and vocational guidance. Advertisements feature testimonials from hospital nurses in various departments and clip-out coupon to send for more information. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Collection comprises thirteen programs and broadsides for private benefit musical concerts and dramas performed primarily in 1867. The majority feature dramas performed at Mr. Jerome's Private Theater. Acquired as part of the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture.
Collection of 143 stereographic images of areas in southeastern China, taken by an amateur photographer and American lighting engineer Frederick B. Nightingale from 1920 to 1921, while he traveled on business as a representative of General Electric. Nightingale's photographs are of value not only for the image content, which includes street scenes, vendors, modes of transportation, shrines, temples, pagodas, monasteries, towers, and landscapes, but also for his lengthy contextual commentary written on the back of each card. The majority of the images were taken in Hangzhou (referred to as Hangchow), Suzhou (Soochow), Mount Putuo island (Pu-tu), and Shanghai, China, but there are also a few images from other cities (Ningbo, Chang'an, and Harinen?), and a set of 11 images were taken in Japan. Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
Account of life in camp and traveling while stationed in North India and modern-day Pakistan by an unidentified wife of a British Army officer. The first entry begins in Meean Meer (or Mian Mir), a former large British cantonment in Pakistan. Officers and families traveled to locations including Islamabad, Kashmir, Aliabad, and Pindi Gheb. Illustrated with sketches.
Collection comprises items related to the One Person, One Vote: Learning from the Past, Organizing for the Future Voting Rights Conference held September 18-20, 2015 in Durham, N.C. Materials include video of the proceedings, the conference program, contents of a participant notebook, feedback from attendees, and a mailing card for a related multimedia website.
Mary Gorham Paine (b. 1843) of Yarmouth, Massachusetts, was married to Eben W. Paine (1835-1904) of Brewster, Massachusetts, a merchant ship captain in the trade between Boston and Zanzibar. They had one son, Allan Thatcher Paine (b. 1882). The collection consists of a single diary kept by Mary Gorham Paine as she traveled twice by ship from Boston to islands near Madagascar. Forty-six manuscript pages provide both a day-by-day account of her trip aboard the Sarah Hobart to Nossi-Be (present day Nosy Be) from December 25, 1879 to May 4, 1880, and a three-page, mid-journey synopsis of the passage with her young son to Reunion Island, begun on December 13, 1883. As is made clear by the text, the intent of both voyages was to join her husband who was probably located in Zanzibar at the time. Newspaper clippings chiefly concerned with literary topics, news and issues relating to Africa, and obituaries for her husband and others are pasted into 18 pages following the narrative portion of the diary together with a photograph of a man and another of a baby, most likely her husband and son. The diary as a whole provides some insight into the life of a sea captain's wife and a description of long-distance ocean travel aboard a barque such as the Sarah Hobart.
Nell Irvin Painter is a scholar, teacher, and writer in 19th- and 20th-century American and African American history who has been a faculty member of Harvard, Princeton, and the Universities of North Carolina and Pennsylvania. Collection spans the years 1793-2019, with the bulk of the material dating between 1876 and 2007, and contains correspondence, research notes, photocopies of original documents, manuscripts, publication proofs, syllabi, department memoranda, records of her speaking engagements, photographs, personal journals, papers, and photographs, many varying audiovisual formats, and computer diskettes. Also contains extensive file series related to the research and writing of five of her major books: Exodusters: Black Migration to Kansas after Reconstruction; The Narrative of Hosea Hudson: His Life as a Negro Communist in the South; Standing at Armageddon: The United States, 1877-1919; Sojourner Truth, A Life, A Symbol; and Creating Black Americans: African-American History and its Meanings, 1619 to the Present.
Collection comprises two letters (1864 January 3 and 1865 October 13) Phebe Ann Palmer wrote to unidentified recipients. Topics include the weather, health of family members, visitors and visiting, the local school teachers, the Clinton County Fair, the Civil War and its related deaths and sacrifices. She added at one point "I have told you all the gossip I know," and she writes at length about her thoughts and feelings regarding other people and situations.
The Park, Lambuth, and Sherertz families were Methodist missionaries to China, Japan, and Africa. The collection includes the family Bible; correspondence to and from members of the three families; reports; diary entries; genealogical information; a videocassette; photographs; printed material; poetry; and typescripts of essays regarding family members' daily lives and work as missionaries in China, Japan, and Africa. The families mentioned are ancestors of Olive Sherertz Lanham (Duke '43). Materials range in date from circa 1825 to 1989.
Paton was the wife of a merchant from Montrose, Scotland. The collection includes sixteen diaries written by Paton between 1849-1872.
Collection contains papers relating to Peru, roughly falling into three groups centering around commerce and industry, literary activities, and religious and social history. Includes papers (1786-1787) containing information on the mining of mercury; poems of Juan de Valle y Caviedes in 17th century script; poems by Antonio de Solís; one volume of Documentos históricos, collected by Manuel de Odriozola; three Documentos literarios from contemporary publications, among them a compilation of the papers of Peruvian viceroys and others (1580-1818); a paper relating to witchcraft and idolatry in Peru; papers (1772-1773) of the Provincial Council at Lima, containing the core of the debate within the Catholic Church on the modernization of learning which Charles III attempted to foist upon the empire; a copy of the proceso of Mariano Tupac Amaro; and material relating to politics and the industrial development of Peru and neighboring countries during the 19th century.
Parker Pillsbury (1809–1898) was an American minister, lecturer, newspaper editor, and advocate for abolition and women's rights. The collection is composed of 33 pocket diaries Parker Pillsbury kept for the years 1864 to 1896. The diaries offer a consistent, uninterrupted record of Pillsbury's life during these years, particularly his work fighting for the rights of women and African Americans and promoting Free Religion. Pillsbury records his interactions with leading social reformers of the nineteenth century, including William Lloyd Garrison, Frederick Douglass, Abby Kelley and Stephen S. Foster, Gerrit Smith, Wendell Phillips, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, Lucretia Mott, Robert Ingersoll, Charles Sumner, Henry Ward Beecher and Theodore Tilton among many others. His entries occasionally are accompanied by tipped in newspaper clippings about national events. 
Collection consists of 49 color inkjet prints from the documentary project Test of Faith by photographer Lauren Pond. The images are approximately 20x14 inches in size and are unmatted. Between 2011 and 2016, Pond documented the life, death, and West Virginian family of Pentecostal pastor and serpent handler, Mack Wolford, of the Full Gospel Apostolic House of the Lord Jesus in Matoaka, West Virginia. The series includes images of Wolford's death in his family home after he was bitten by the venomous snake. Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
Pope and Carter families of Giles, Maury, and Williamson Counties, Tennessee. Chiefly correspondence, together with writings, legal and financial papers, and other material, of the related Pope and Carter families of Giles, Maury, and Williamson counties, Tenn. Letters (1820-1865) pertain to agriculture, steam boating on the Mississippi River, selling goods to Choctaw Indians, pioneering in Texas, travels of a planter's wife, Confederate military service, Columbus, Miss, and related Clark, Rivers, Rodes (or Rhodes), and Trotter families. Twentieth century material centers on the career of Col. William Rivers Pope, especially during World War I, when he was a regimental commander in the Meuse-Argonne offensive.
Durham resident and member of the National Fraternal Society of the Deaf. Collection includes correspondence, financial papers, and materials from the National Fraternal Society of the Deaf.
Porter Advertising, founded in 1945, is an out-of-home advertising company based in Richmond, Indiana. Porter Advertising Billboard Sketches date between the 1950s and 1970s and document the company's poster designs for a wide range of businesses in the region around Richmond, Indiana. The collection includes rough and developed sketches; design drawings for specific businesses and campaigns; generic designs; and billboard mockups for local businesses such as car dealerships; banks and financial institutions; funeral homes; hospitals and clinics; motels; retail stores; restaurants; and others. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Collection consists of the personal and professional correspondence of James Hinton Pou, Sr., lawyer, politician, and land developer of Raleigh, North Carolina. Topics cover late 19th and early 20th century North Carolina politics and legal system, business and land development in North Carolina, the history of Raleigh, N.C. and Wake County, and the Pou-Bailey families.
Advertising agency founded in 1926 in Paris, France. Binder of black-and-white photographs highlighting Publicis' work for its clients. Companies represented include Bouchara, Brunswick Furriers, Colgate-Palmolive, Craven cigarettes (brand of Benson & Hedges), Lordson, Timor insecticide (SOFACO), and Weill clothiers. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Quaker farmer, fruit-grower, and broom-maker from Frederick County, Virginia. The Mordecai Purcell papers span the years 1778-1901 and contain correspondence, bills, receipts, business and legal papers, and a ledger relating to Quaker farmer Mordecai Purcell, his brother, John Purcell, and the Cather family (John Purcell married Adaline J. Cather), living in Virginia.
Tom Rankin is a documentary photographer, filmmaker, folklorist, professor of art and documentary studies, and former director of the Center for Documentary Studies at Duke University. Collection consists of 147 black-and-white and color photographs documenting the American South and China. Photographs from the South focus on religious sites, rituals, and communities in the Mississippi Delta region, as well as portraits of individuals, including portraits of Mississippi writer Larry Brown, and Southern landscapes. An additional documentary project from 2016 took Rankin to China, where he photographed semi-rural landscapes, often taken with high-rise buildings in the far distance or adjacent to industrial structures, as well as bridges and rivers, markets and live fish vendors, and a few street scenes. Finished prints range from 8x11 inch contact prints to 11x14, 16x20, and 20x24 large-format prints. Supporting materials include manuscripts, publications files, and two films, all deriving from Rankin's career and art practice. Includes a digital audio recording of a talk by Rankin at the exhibit opening of his work, "Near the Cross: Photographs from the Mississippi Delta." Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
Rockett, Burkhead & Winslow (RBW) was a Raleigh-based advertising agency that operated from 1985-2009. Accession (2009-0133) includes CDs, videotapes, DVDs, samples of print advertisements, awards, and USB drives with documents from RBW. Clients include Glaxo, Cort, Dollar Tree, Volvo, and Reed's.
R.C. Maxwell Company of Trenton, N.J., was one of the earliest enduring outdoor advertising companies, founded in 1894 by Robert Chester Maxwell (1873-1955) and continued to operate primarily in the New Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania area until the company was sold in 2000. The R.C. Maxwell Company Records span the years 1891-2001 and include photographs and negatives, videocassettes, ledgers and account books, scrapbooks, correspondence and legal papers relating to the company's operations in outdoor advertising. Photographs and negatives in several formats (film, glass negatives, polaroid prints) document billboard designs for a variety of advertisers as well as depicting billboard and electric sign structures and their location relative to the surrounding environment. Urban locations include Times Square in New York and the Atlantic City, N.J., Boardwalk, where a number of photographs also document the Miss America beauty pageant parade and other parades in which the R.C. Maxwell Company participated. A few photographs document billboard construction and erection; there are also photographs of the Maxwell family and of Maxwell company staff and employees. Scrapbooks contain images of billboards and wall paintings produced by the Maxwell company as well as by David L. Clark, a High Point, N.C. artist and sign painter who was R.C. Maxwell's guardian. Other scrapbooks document primarily Coca-Cola signs of the early 20th century, as well as World War I support efforts including the U.S. Food Administration (under the direction of Herbert Hoover), the U.S. Fuel Administration, and Liberty Bond campaigns. Companies represented in the collection include the Boardwalk Advertising Signs Co., C&B Electric Signs Co., Trenton Advertising Co., and Trenton Poster Advertising Co. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Manuscript volume includes thirty-two articles of varying lengths relating mostly to the political, economic, social, and ecclesiastical history of the French province of Dauphiné during the eighteenth century. No authors are given for any of the writings. The volume probably dates from the decade before the outbreak of the revolutions. Topics of the articles include: the boundary between Dauphiné and Sardinia; the government of Geneva in 1733; extracts from the registers of the Council of State about certain ecclesiastical matters; the boundaries of Dauphiné; methods of teaching at the University of Paris; population, emigration, and the Huguenots; the condition and productivity of Valence, Montélimar, Crest, and Die; commerce, silk and textile production; meat production; a history of fiefs; a petition from the nobles to the King, 1770; Princess Charlotte of Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel, wife of the Russian Tsarevich Alexius Petrovich; affairs concerning the parliament of Dauphiné; and other matters.
Collection includes correspondence, grant proposals, teaching materials, and articles on and by Haim Reingold. 
The images in this collection were taken by photographer Ron Reis from the 1950s to 1979 and from 2004 to 2014. The earlier body of work (1962-1974) contains 289 black-and-white photographs, accompanied by negatives and contact sheets. The later body of work (2004-2014) contains 3,719 black-and-white and color laser inkjet prints, with a majority of images dated 2012 to 2013. Reis focused his camera on street scenes primarily in New York and New England, but also in Colorado and the midwest, in Europe (Italy, England, Ireland, and Greece), and in the Middle East. His images capture anti-war demonstrations, feminist and gay pride parades, and ethnic festivals, while also documenting the more quotidian life of urban neighborhoods, street markets, and other public spaces such as Speakers' Corner in London's Hyde Park and New York City's Washington Square. The earlier black-and-white gelatin silver prints measure 11x14 inches, while the laser inkjet prints measure 11x17 inches. There are also manuscript and printed materials such as a curriculum vitae, some correspondence, exhibition publicity, articles, and photo essays. Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
North Carolina born and raised composer, Duke alumnus, and composer-in-residence and professor at Carleton College. Collection comprises primarily scores, music sketches, recordings, professional files, and correspondence that follow the development of Rhodes' compositional career. Includes published compositions and unpublished student works for both vocal and instrumental ensembles, as well as concert programs, newspaper clippings, and other publicity related items from performances of his music.
John Ridlon was a physician, surgeon, and professor specializing in orthopedic medicine, with a focus on pediatrics, practicing in New York State and Chicago, Illinois. Collection consists of medical case files and casebooks; articles and papers; correspondence; ephemera; diplomas; photographs in the form of prints, negatives, and glass plates; and medical illustrations. Accompanying the papers is a set of 118 black-and-white images from a medical-military training camp in Plattsburgh, N.Y. around 1916. There are also a handful of photographic portraits of Ridlon. Correspondents include: R. Osgood, A. Steindler, P.D. Wilson, R.K. Ghormley, J.E. Goldthwait, A.B. Judson, R.W. Lovett, H.W. Orr, S.W. Mitchell, and H. Cushing. Acquired as part of the History of Medicine Collections at Duke University.
Army engineer, Confederate officer, and architect, of Albemarle County, Virginia. Collection consists primarily of Rives' correspondence, relating to his attendance at the École nationale des ponts et chaussées, Paris; his military and civilian careers; family matters and social, political, and economic affairs in Virginia; and the Washington Peace Convention (1861). Includes a diary (1829-1831) of Rives' mother, Judith Page Walker Rives, concerning life in the diplomatic community in Paris, travels on the continent, French social life and customs, the Revolution of 1830, U.S. political developments, and other matters. Also contains three ledgers of Francis E. Rives, U.S. Representative. Correspondents include Francis E. Rives, Julia Page Rives, and Edouard Schwebelé.
Cecil F. and Marie Roberson were Southern Baptist missionaries in Nigeria between the 1950s and 1970s. Collection consists largely of historical essays and archives written and collected by Cecil Roberson to document the history of Baptists in Nigeria. Roberson's own writings are complemented by photocopies and reproductions of the Thomas Jefferson Bowen and Lurana Henrietta Davis Bowen Papers, as well as a series of correspondence written to and from Louis M. Duval between 1917 and 1934. This collection is part of the Nigerian Southern Baptist Missionary Collection held at the Rubenstein Library.
Papers of playwright and actor Charles “Buck” Roberts from Durham, N.C. The collection consists of scripts authored by Roberts, photographs of productions, scrapbooks from his youth, and programs and press releases from performances. 
Collection reflects career of Louis H. Roddis in the general field of energy with emphasis on policy and strategic issues. Topics include electric power, gas resources, petroleum, water power, energy conservation, the energy crisis of the 1970s, nuclear power, and alternative energy sources. Primarily documented in the collection are developments with nuclear power and within the nuclear industry including materials related to the Chernobyl and Three Mile Island accidents. The collection also reflects Roddis' participation in a variety of public service, charitable, industrial, and trade organizations.
Kenneth Roman is a former advertising executive and CEO of Ogilvy & Mather agency, and author of several books. The collection spans the years 1906-2011 and primarily contains materials gathered during Roman's research for a biography of David Ogilvy, The King of Madison Avenue. Includes printed materials, articles, photographs, CDs, VHS videocassettes, audiocassettes of interviews with printed transcriptions, and a collection of writings and speeches by Roman and Ogilvy. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Charles Roos (1901-1958) was the founder of Applied Econometrics, Inc. (now The Econometric Institute, Inc.). This collection documents the first 20 years of that organization through their publications and Roos' correspondence. It forms parts of the Economists' Papers Archive.
Ben Rosen is an American graphic designer and visual communications consultant. Rosen worked as a designer for J. Gordon Carr and Associates and the Blaine Thompson Company before founding his own firm, Ben Rosen Associates, in 1952, which specialized in corporate identity programs. Rosen is the author of three books on on graphic design and typography: Type and Typography (1963); The Corporate Search for Visual Identity (1970); and Digital Type Specimens (1991). The Ben Rosen Papers span the years 1936 to 2006, with the bulk of the collection dating from 1945 through 1991, and document Rosen's sixty-year career in graphic design and visual communications consulting. The collection contains materials in a variety of formats, including correspondence, writings, graphic design and printed materials, sketches, presentation boards, photographs, and slides, that document design concepts and programs (corporate logos, letterhead, packaging, industrial design, promotion) Rosen developed, through his firm, Ben Rosen Associates, for clients including American Loose Leaf, CCMI McGraw-Hill, Equitable Life Assurance, Exxon/Esso, Food Fair Stores, IBM, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, North American Reinsurance, Philip Morris, Richardson-Vicks, Russ Berrie, and Tishman Realty and Construction. The collection also includes manuscripts and published editions of Rosen's books on graphic design and typography, and touches on several of Rosen's comemorative projects, including a President Kennedy memorial, a United Nations 20th Anniversary book, and Rosen's submission to the World Trade Center Memorial design competition.
Rotary International was established as a men's service organization in Chicago in 1905. This collection contains records relating to Rotary International, District 7710, which includes counties in central North Carolina. Includes the district's conference programs, conference minutes, executive committee minutes, correspondence, directories, policies and procedures. Also includes information about the district's exchange program and various club histories, including numerous club rosters and club bulletins for the Chapel Hill and Raleigh Rotary Clubs. There are also clippings, newsletters, photographs, and slides related to the organization's activities.
Henry Ruark was a North Carolina Methodist minister whose sermons appeared in the Greensboro Daily News and were later published in book form. In 1960, he was minister of the First Methodist Church in Laurinburg, North Carolina. Collection chiefly contains Ruark's notes and clippings on a variety of issues and topics. Subjects include various Biblical issues, and how the church relates to secular issues such as war and racial integration. There are some reports he made to the Christian Century, as well as at least 200 sermons preached in Laurinburg, Rocky Mount, N.C. and the Duke University Chapel in Durham, N.C. There are also clippings from the Greensboro Daily News, sermons by others, and correspondence.
Businessman, militia officer, and Virginia state legislator, of Baltimore, Maryland, and Leesburg, Virginia. Collection houses correspondence and other papers of George Rust and of his family, relating to Rust's legislative career, his work on behalf of the Jacksonian Democrats, his investment activities in Maryland and Virginia banks and mercantile firms, and his association with the Virginia militia. Includes letters from members of the family in other sections of the United States.
Broadcast journalist, businessman, and resident of Palm Beach (Palm Beach Co.), Fla. These papers are comprised primarily of correspondence, clippings, essays, and articles related to the subjects Rutherfurd covered during his career as a broadcast journalist. Topics reflect his interest in diplomacy, journalism, and U.S. foreign relations since 1961. Much of the material documents the career of Angier Biddle Duke, a Rutherfurd family friend who served in the diplomatic corps during the Kennedy and Johnson administrations. Other material reflects the instrumental role Rutherfurd played in the creation of Duke University's Living History Program. The collection also contains more than 53 audiocassettes, two videocassettes, scripts, and filmed interviews (late 1960s to 1980s) with prominent individuals, as well as recordings of TV news segments and radio shows.
In addition, the collection contains Rutherfurd family photographs, diaries, scrapbooks, legal papers, and a genealogy, as well as drafts of Jay Rutherfurd's memoir and miscellany. Individuals represented in these materials include John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson, Richard Nixon, Haile Selassie, King Hussein of Jordan, Tito, Prince Juan Carlos of Spain, Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, Robin Chandler Lynn Duke, Jacques Fray, Rafael Calvo, Stanton Griffis, Earl E. T. Smith, Ottis Pike, Lucius Clay, Averell Harriman, Henry Kissinger, John Sherman Cooper, Stanton Griffis, Terry Sanford, Willy Brandt, Ellsworth Bunker, and Ryoichi Sasakawa, as well as other celebrities and heads of state. These materials also document Jay Rutherfurd's trips to Morocco, Southeast Asia, Nepal, the Panama Canal Zone, the People's Republic of China, Iran, and the Middle East, as well as the social life of Southampton, N.Y., and Palm Beach, Florida.
Advertising executive who worked in a number of agencies in Chicago and New York. Collection spans 1936-2014 and includes correspondence, proofs and tear sheets, sketches and cartoons, copy scripts, research reports and other printed materials, photographs and slides, audiovisual materials in multiple formats (audio and video cassettes, 16mm and 35mm film and audio reels, dvds and phono discs) and other materials that document Rydholm's career in advertising agencies in Chicago and New York including BBDO, E.H. Weiss, EURO RSCG, J. Walter Thompson (JWT), Post Keyes Gardner, Tatham-Laird, Ted Bates, and Young & Rubicam. Collection also documents Rydholm's military service with the U.S. Air Force and participation in some War Production Board youth activities during World War II, as well as his tenure as President of the American Association of Advertising Agencies (AAAA). Companies represented include Alberto-Culver, American Bar Association, Chicago Museum of Sports, Chicago Public Education Fund, Executive Service Corps, Hoover vacuum cleaners, and Northwestern University. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
D.S. Sanford was a businessman from Lake George, New York. The collection contains correspondence, bills, receipts, claims, legal papers, and accounts, pertaining to Drurie (or Drury) Sisson Sanford, dating from the 1850s to the first years of the 20th century. Topics in the correspondence chiefly concern business activities, which revolved around Sanford's real estate dealings in Long Island and Lake George, N.Y., and his patent medicine business, S.T.W. Sanford and Sons. Other materials relate to Sanford's duties as postmaster for the Lake George Assembly, and president of the Lake George League. Includes land deeds for properties in Pennsylvania, New York, and Massachusetts.
Collection includes black and white photographs of clothing, department, furniture, grocery, hardware, household appliance, music and musical instrument, shoe and other retail store window displays, signs and interior merchandise displays of businesses in the San Jose, California area. Photographs also depict clerks and store employees at work as well as storefront street scenes. Companies represented include Albers, Armour Star, Bauer & Black, Best Foods, Hart Schaffner & Marx, Montgomery Ward, Pacific Gas, Standard Oil (Calol, Pearl Oil, Red Cross gasoline, Zerolene Oil), Sunkist, Vellumoid and Victor records. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Sauer, Farrell, & Co. was a cigar manufacturing company located in Suffield, Connecticut, during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Collection of ledgers, account books, order forms, and other ephemera relating to the sale and purchase of cigars by Sauer, Farrell, & Co., Cigar Manufacturers. Materials range in date from the 1870s through the early 1900s, and it is believed that the cigar company may have changed names throughout that period. The centerpiece of the collection is a specimen book of sample cigar box labels, created by the lithographers Heppenheimer & Maurer around 1878. The specimen book includes about 115 leaves, with labels affixed on each side of the leaf; the label colors range from two colors to multiple colors per label. Account books document cigar production, purchase, and sales information. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Collection comprises 9 pages of medical case notes for eight individuals, seven of whom required surgery. One case history is incomplete. There are men and women, adults and children, and black and white individuals among the patients. Appendicitis was the most common complaint, but there is mention of gangrene, bladder trouble, and Pott's disease. Case notes include name of patient, symptoms and past treatment, and details of the operation, although no mention of the success of the procedure is provided.
Collection comprises 76 color photographic prints, measuring from 11x14 to 20x24 inches, depicting the annual prairie fires that sweep across east-central Kansas. These images were taken during the 1990s; the artist has continued taking images of prairie fires up to the present (2015). For the 1990s project, published in a book entitled "On fire," Schwarm was awarded the 2002 Honigman First Book Prize in Photography by the Center for Documentary Studies in Durham, North Carolina. The photographs were displayed in an exhibit entitled "On fire: Larry Schwarm," at Duke University's Rubenstein Library. Also included in the collection is an audio cassette recording of the artist's talk Schwarm gave on November 6, 2003, at the exhibit's opening reception. Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
Tibor Scitovsky (1910-2002) was the Eberle Professor of Economics, Emeritus at Stanford University. This collection primarily documents his professional life through his correspondence and writings. It forms part of the Economists' Papers Archive.
Yehudit Shadur (1928-2011) pioneered the contemporary revival of the Jewish papercutting tradition. Collection comprises a papercut by Yehudit Shadur, entitled "Mizrach" (east wall marker), from the original in the Jewish National Museum and Archives, Israel. Cut blue paper; mounted on brown paper. 15.25 x 18.75 inches.
Collection contains mainly letters (mostly between 1850-1869) to members of the Sheek family of North Carolina, from relatives who had migrated to Kentucky, Tennessee, Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, and Texas. The letters concern religion in the West, economic conditions, farming on the frontier, Texas during the 1840s-1860s, sectional strife, Civil War experiences, and conditions in the Confederacy and after the war.
Reverend Robert Shields, his wife Louise Shields, and members of their family were Methodist missionaries in Angola between the 1890s and the 1960s. The Shields Family Papers consist of correspondence, legal papers, and photographs created by three generations of a missionary family. The correspondence documents the experiences of a missionary family in Angola (Luanda and Malange) and Zimbabwe (including the Umtali region) in the early twentieth century, and includes letters written from family members in England, among them letters written from Greta Gazeley to her mother, Wilhelmina Shields Gazeley, in the 1950s. The photographs, dating from the early 1900s to the 1960s, portray the lives of missionaries in Africa through portraits and snapshots of the Shields family and other groups both European, American and African, as well as photographs of groups of schoolchildren, mission buildings, and various scenes of African life and landscapes. The collection includes a handwritten memoir by Robert Shields, a biographical account of Louise Raven Shield's life compiled by her daughter, Irene Withey Shields, and various writings by Irene Withey Shields and Wilhelmina Taylor Shields on their experiences in Africa. Acquired as part of the John Hope Franklin Research Center for African and African American History and Culture at Duke University.
Prominent feminist, author, and political activist in the 1960s and 70s. Author of MEMOIRS OF AN EX-PROM QUEEN (1972), ON THE STROLL (1980), and DRINKING THE RAIN (1995). The materials in the Alix Kates Shulman Papers span the dates 1892 to 2000, with the bulk of materials dating from 1968 to 2000. These materials include: manuscripts, notes, clippings, published books, correspondence, photographs, audio and videotapes, microfilm, address and date books, family and business records. The primary focus of the collection is Shulman's writing and literary career. The secondary focus is the women's liberation and feminist movements, in which Shulman was and continues to be very active (from 1968 to 2000). However, feminism and feminist activism are inextricably intertwined with Shulman's writing career, and her 1972 novel MEMOIRS OF AN EX-PROM QUEEN is regarded by many as the first novel to "come out of" the women's liberation movement of the late 1960s and early 1970s.
Resident of Mount Jackson, Va. Collection contains personal correspondence, business papers, and receipts relating to William Sigler. Some correspondence concerns local politics and economic conditions. Sigler sometimes corresponded with prominent merchants in Baltimore, Md.
Dawn Langley Simmons (1937-2000), was a British author. She started her career editing newspaper society columns and went on to become a prolific biographer and the author of Man Into Women: A Transsexual Autobiography (1971). The Dawn Langley Simmons Papers span the years 1848-2001, with the bulk of the papers being dated between 1969 and 2001. The collection houses extensive files of correspondence dating from the 1950s to 2000, with topics ranging from Simmons' formative years in Great Britain, her relationship with her mother, Marjorie Hall Copper, literary circles in Great Britain, later personal events such as her wedding, and Simmons' development as a writer. Significant correspondents or individuals mentioned in letters include Margaret Rutherford, Isabel Whitney, Vita Sackville-West, Sir Harold Nicolson, Nigel Nicolson, Robert Holmes, and Edwin Peacock. The collection also includes writings by Simmons in the form of typescripts and diaries; printed material and clippings, including articles and reviews by and about Simmons; legal and financial papers; an extensive collection of scrapbooks; photographs; audiovisual materials; and other material relating to Simmons' personal life and career as a writer.
Furnifold McLendel Simmons (1854-1940) was a U.S. Senator and political leader from North Carolina. Collection contains correspondence (most nearly complete for the 1920s) of Simmons during a large part of his public life. The bulk of the collection deals with such routine political matters as recommendations for appointments, requests for political literature, suggestions for procedure in political campaigns, and special legislation for World War I veterans. Other items relate to reform politics and the orthodox Southern position during Theodore Roosevelt's administration, the Underwood-Simmons tariff, Wilsonian reforms, the financing of World War I, the Southern defection from Alfred E. Smith (1928), and the technique of machine politics. Correspondents include Calvin Coolidge, Herbert Hoover, William Howard Taft, and Woodrow Wilson.
Roscoe Conkling Simmons was an African American orator, journalist, and community leader who strongly supported the Republican party in the early twentieth century. This collection consists of pamphlets, speeches, newspaper clippings, and other ephemera documenting his public life and service to the Republican party.
Author and medical doctor Cuthbert O. Simpkins (b. 1947) wrote the first biography of jazz saxophonist and composer John Coltrane (1926-1967), titled Coltrane: A Biography (Perth Amboy, NJ: Herndon House Publishers, 1975). The collection contains audio recordings of interviews Simpkins conducted with various family members, friends, and colleagues of Coltrane between 1971-1974 as a part of his research.
This collection contains the correspondence of Martha Eleanor Booker and her future husband Paul David Simpson from 1948-1952 and relates their struggles in school and as a couple during this time. Both were African-Americans from Virginia.
Collection contains 30 color prints from Sittler's project All the Presidents' Men. This project combines photographs made in presidential museums and historic sites across the United States with images from Sittler's father and grandfather's homes. 
Miriam Slifkin was a feminist leader in Chapel Hill who was active from the 1960's-2000's. Miriam Slifkin founded the Chapel Hill chapter of the National Organization for Women (NOW) and the Orange County Rape Crisis Center. This collection contains NOW operational files including correspondence, newsletters, chapter organization records, speeches, fund raising, budget files, files on related organizations, and files related to sexual discrimination and sexual discrimination lawsuits. Other materials document the founding and early history of the Orange County Rape Crisis Center and her work on the Board of the Orange County Human Relations Commission. Slifkin's work to make the Morehead Scholarships at the University of North Carolina coeducational are also documented. Also included are materials for courses on Women's Studies and other educational materials, handbooks, personal files, issues of SPOKESWOMAN, NCC-LAW newsletters, and two audiocassettes of an interview of Slifkin, 1994. Acquired as part of the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture.
Baptist minister; pastor of the University Baptist Church, Austin, Texas from 1943-1969. Radio talks, drafts of sermons, sermon transcripts, and a scrapbook of clippings from Smith's time as a pastor at the University Baptist Church of Austin, Texas. Also includes rosters of University of Texas Baptist students and an article on Darwinism in Texas.
Speculator and one of the founders of the Columbia Mining Company in Columbia Co., Ga. Collection (672 items; dated 1802-1872, bulk 1845-1872) includes personal and business letters, letterpress books (1849-1855), scattered diaries (1845-1907), miscellaneous business record books, and other papers of Smith and members of his family, mainly concerning Smith's speculative enterprises in mining, railroads, cotton planting, the Columbia Minining Co., and grain mills in Georgia, Tennessee, and other parts of the nation. The bulk of the material is of the period 1845-1872. Includes information on gold mining in Georgia and Tennessee, business conditions in the South before and after the Civil War, and the development of the railroad system in the South.
Educator, insurance agent, and civic leader, of Durham, N.C. Family, business, and personal correspondence (chiefly after 1851) of Southgate and of his family. The material concerns Southgate’s insurance business, life in North Carolina, the establishment of Durham, N.C., and of Duke University; the Southgate family in the Civil War, Reconstruction in North Carolina, education and civil activities in North Carolina, South Carolina, and Virginia, and schools in Durham; and the activities and genealogy of the Southgate family. Correspondents and persons mentioned include Mattie Logan Southgate Jones, Delia Haywood Wynne Southgate, James Haywood Southgate, and Myra Ann Muse Southgate.
President of the Seamen's Friend Society of Wilmington, N.C. Chiefly financial records and other papers of the Seamen's Friend Society, with a few items relating to charitable contributions around 1918. Several items also concern the United Laymen's Association of Wilmington.
Head of a Durham, N.C. advertising firm and lieutenant in the U.S. Navy during WWII. Collection contains materials related to Stauber's service in the U.S. Navy during World War II. Some of the material contains notes and scripts of announcements and news reports made by Stauber on a radio show onboard the USS Biloxi. These radio broadcasts are dated January-April and document, among other things, the US invasion of Iwo Jima and contain marks of official censorship. A large part of the collection consists of correspondence, primarily from Stauber to his mother (1942-1945). Also included are photographs of USS Biloxi reunions (1974-1980), one of which was located in Durham, North Carolina.
Collection includes print advertisements, accessories and merchandise catalogs, collector newsletters, direct mailings, cigarette and tobacco labels and packaging, point of sale displays, sheet music, memorabilia and collectibles, tobacco tins, smoking and smoking cessation paraphernalia, juvenile and adult literature, research reports and articles on smoking and health and other printed materials, along with audio and video cassettes and optical discs. Materials primarily relate to smoking, tobacco use and prevention in the United States but some international examples are also present. Materials also relate to the tobacco industry in North Carolina. Companies represented include Alfred Dunhill, American Cancer Society, American Legacy Foundation, American Lung Association, American Tobacco Company, Brown & Williamson, Liggett & Myers, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health (NIH), Philip Morris, R.J. Reynolds, Tobacco Institute, U.S. Surgeon General and Zippo. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Collection comprises a letter Stokes wrote to dramatist Benjamin Butler Davenport regarding her plan to attend his play "The Silent Assertion" with her husband. Includes enclosure.
Wolfgang Stolper (1912-2002) was a professor emeritus of economics at the University of Michigan. This collection documents his professional life through his correspondence, writings, research, and professional and faculty activities (especially his missions to Africa as an economic advisor). It forms part of the Economists' Papers Archive.
Charles Sumner (Chuck) Stone was a prominent African-American journalist, with a career spanning from his early days at the New York Age (1958-1959) to his position as editor and columnist at the Philadelphia Daily News (1972-1991). Between 1965 and 1967 he was special assistant and press secretary to New York representative Adam Clayton Powell, Jr. He served as mediator between the police and suspected criminals for over 20 years, most notably in his negotiation of the Graterford Prison hostage crisis in 1981. He is the author of multiple books, from political analyses to a novel about his time with Powell and (in 2003) a children's book. He was also an educator for many years, as Professor of English at the University of Delaware from 1985-1991 and Walter Spearman Professor of Journalism at UNC-Chapel Hill from 1991 to 2005, when he retired. The collection contains clippings, correspondence, writings, scrapbooks, photographs, video, audio, research files, and printed materials pertaining to the life and career of Chuck Stone. The papers span the years 1931-2007 and document Stone's journalism career and writings, his political career and relationship with Adam Clayton Powell, Jr., and his role as an educator.
South African Methodist Church leader and anti-apartheid activist. The Peter Storey Papers contain correspondence, datebooks, articles, lectures, sermons, committee and subject files, clippings, scrapbooks, videotapes, and electronic records. The collection documents Peter Storey's leadership and active involvement in the Methodist Church of Southern Africa, the South African Council of Churches, the Central Methodist Mission in Johannesburg, the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, Gun Free South Africa, and other religious and anti-apartheid groups. Major subjects include Nelson Mandela, Winnie Mandela, urban ministry, crisis intervention, and political violence and elections in South Africa. Materials range in date from circa 1950 to 2006. Acquired as part of the Human Rights Archive.
J. Doane Stott was a Methodist minister (N.C. conference) and missionary to Japan. A.B., Trinity College and B.D., Duke University. Chiefly sermons, clippings, and printed material of J. Doane Stott relating to his missionary work in Japan and ministry in North Carolina, as well as his lecture notes reflecting his time spent at Trinity College and Duke University. Papers also include items relating to Mr. Stott's involvement with CROP (Christian Rural Overseas Program), the Greensboro Urban Ministry, as well as the Lion's Club.
Harriet Elisabeth Beecher Stowe (1811 June 14-1896 July 1) was an American abolitionist and author. Collection comprises an introduction and a letter written by Harriet Beecher Stowe, along with a carte de visite of her. There is an undated introduction she wrote for the second edition of Narrative of Sojourner Truth. Stowe's statement appears as an introduction in some copies of the 1853 edition. In the introduction, Stowe discusses the African-American abolitionist and women's rights activist, remarking on her mental energy and revelatory powers as a Christian, and attests to Truth's character. She then mentions that the sales of the work will "secure a home for [Truth in] her old age ..." There is an undated letter Stowe wrote from Northampton Depot on Aug. 10 to Mr. Ward, informing him that although she is disposed to support his request, she is under pressures that limit her use of the pen. The carte de visite features a textured surface, and was created by the Howell studio in New York.
St. Philip's Episcopal Church was founded in 1878 in Durham, N.C. This collections contains vestry minutes, correspondence, minutes from various organizations within the church, rector's notes, church bulletins and programs, slides, photographs, financial records, appointment books, scrapbooks, clippings, canvass reports, auditor's reports, sermons, and printed materials. Also included are the records, notes, and correspondence related to parish historian Harold Parker's history of the church (published in 1997), as well as a complete file of the church's extant sermons (1912-1994) Parker compiled for another book. There are also five reels of microfilm containing copies of vestry minutes, marriage records, a church register, etc., organized by Mr. Parker into roughly chronological order and divided into sections by rectorship.
Journalist and photographer. The Deena Stryker photographs collection contains photographs, negatives, and contact sheets generated by the journalist then known as Deena Boyer during two trips to Cuba between July 1963 and July 1964, as well as exhibit prints produced in 2010. During her second trip to the island, Stryker interviewed and photographed Fidel and Raúl Castro as well as other major figures in the Cuban Revolution such as Che Guevara and Vilma Espín. Topics and photographic subjects include key members of the revolutionary government at work and relaxing; and life in Havana and in rural Cuba, focusing on shops, street scenes, rallies, farms, development projects, and schools. There is a draft of the book prepared for publication in Italian by Stryker about her Cuba trips. Stryker's original negatives were processed in Cuba by Alberto Korda, Fidel Castro's personal photographer. All of Stryker's negatives have been digitized and are available online. Acquired by the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
Sugoroku are Japanese games similar to snakes and ladders, which in the late 19th and early 20th centuries were sometimes included in newspapers and children's magazines. Includes 26 sugoroku games (some items are double-sided), primarily dating from the 1910s to 1930s, with a few earlier and later.
Anite Arrow Summers (born 1925) is a Senior Research Fellow at the Sell-Lurie Real Estate Center and Professor Emerita of Public Policy and Management at the University of Pennsylvania. This collection primarily documents her professional life and family connections to other notable economists. It was acquired as part of the Economists' Papers Archive.
This collection contains family, personal, literary, and business correspondence and other papers (chiefly 1830-1886) of Taveau, of his father, Louis Augustin Thomas Taveau, and of their family. The collection centers around Augustin Louis Taveau and relates to his education, activities as a poet, European travels (1852-1854), career in the Confederate Army, postwar condemnation of Confederate leaders, removal to Maryland (1866), and agricultural efforts. Other subjects include family and legal matters, social life and customs in South Carolina, the education of Southern girls, rice planting before the Civil War, planting in Mississippi and Louisiana (1850s), agriculture and scientific farming in Maryland, Charleston during the Civil War, postwar politics, and other matters. Correspondents and persons mentioned in this collection include William Aiken, Josias Allston, Henry L. Benbow, A. R. Chisholm, Ralph Elliott, Nathan George Evans, J. A. Gadsden, Horace Greeley, William Gregg, Thomas S. Grimké, Robert Y. Hayne, O. W. Holmes, W. H. Huger, Robert Hume, T. J. Hyland-MacGrath, Andrew Johnson, Carolina Olivia Ball Laurens, Eliza G. Maybank, James L. Petigru, J. J. Pettigrew, William Gilmore Simms, Clifford Simons, Keating L. Simons, Admiral Joseph Smith, Horatio Sprague, John R. Thompson, and members of the Girardeau, Swinton, and Taveau families.
Walter J. Taylor was incarcerated at San Quentin and Folsom prisons from 1968 to 1973. While in jail, he founded the Sisters of Motivation and the Community Concern for Prisoners organizations to help African American convicts. He was also arrested, but never charged, as a suspect in the "Stinky Rapist" crimes in Berkeley, California, from 1973 to 1978. Collection consists largely of materials from Taylor's time in prison and as a community activist, post-prison, in Berkeley, California, during the 1970s. The majority of the materials comprises Taylor's incoming correspondence during his incarceration, which includes letters from a variety of people, especially women participating as pen pals in the Sisters of Motivation organization. Other frequent writers are Taylor's girlfriends, family members, and community organizations that he had contacted regarding his imprisonment and the general condition of black male prisoners. Post-prison materials consist largely of letters of recommendation and thanks relating to his job as a youth counselor; creative writings and poems about black culture and beauty; business flyers for his music store; and Community Concern for Prisoners materials. Collection also includes several folders of news clippings, most of which relate to Taylor being the prime suspect for the "Stinky Rapist" crimes in Berkeley from 1973 to 1978. Acquired as part of the Human Rights Archive at Duke University.
Team Detroit is an umbrella organization that includes J. Walter Thompson and a number of other sister advertising agencies. It consolidates all of the ad agencies that work for the Ford Motor Company in Detroit. The accession (2009-0194) (1200 items; 4 lin. ft.; dated 2006-2009) includes marketing plans, sample advertisements and mailings, and launch details for a variety of Ford, Lincoln, Mercury, and Cadillac vehicles between 2006 and 2008. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Victoria Tepe, Ph.D., is an experimental psychologist and neurophysiologist, author, and advocate for women's reproductive health and rights. Collection includes materials from the abortion debate of the 1990s, including articles, essays, handbooks, and reviews. Acquired as part of the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture.
This collection contains business and personal correspondence, orders, price bulletins, and other papers, relating to the tobacco business of James Thomas, the tobacco industry in general, and the economic life of Virginia (1850s). Includes information on Thomas' assistance to the Virginia Baptist Seminary (now the University of Richmond). Correspondents and persons mentioned include J. L. M. Curry, George Frederick Holmes, and Basil Manly.
Papers concerned with Tilghman's law practice in Chestertown, Md., and his service in the Maryland legislature (1788-1793). Includes genealogical information about Maryland's Eastern Shore, information about economic and agricultural conditions in Maryland in the late 18th century, Tilghman's vicissitudes because of his Loyalist sympathies during the Revolution, his efforts to advance the interests of his constituents while he served in the legislature, and the Tilghman family. Volumes include a digest of legal cases in which Tilghman participated, legal notes, court dockets, and a summary of estate laws in Maryland. Includes three letters from Henry Pearce. Two of these letters are to James Tilghman, William's father, regarding the purchase of Pearce land, slaves, stock, etc.
Consists of genealogical information, correspondence, photographs, diaries, notebooks, and a manuscript autobiography relating to the large Townsend family of Felchville, Vermont.
William and James Trahern were merchants in Brunswick (Brunswick Co.), Virginia. Merchants' accounts, including daybooks, 1803-1806, and a record of cotton storage, 1825-1827, of William Trahern; and daybooks, 1806-1822, and an index of James Trahern.
Admittance, matriculation, and "Order of Lecture" cards are from a number of medical students from 1811-1880 in the University of Pennsylvania, Jefferson Medical College, Long Island College Hospital (Brooklyn, N.Y.), Harvard University Medical School, Philadelphia School of Anatomy, New Hampshire Medical Institution, Berkshire Medical Institution, and St. Bartholomew's Hospital (London, England). They contain the autographs of the most eminent professors of the day: i.e., Samuel Gross, Franklin Bache, Benjamin Rush, Austin Flint, Samuel Jackson, S. Weir Mitchell, J. K. Mitchell, Charles D. and James A Meigs, John Barclay Biddle, et al. The St. Bartholomew's Hospital card is signed by Ludford Harvey, John P. Vicent, and John Abernethy, the latter (1764-1831) being an eminent English surgeon and founder of the Medical School of St Bartholomew's. The "Order of Lecture" cards from Jefferson Medical College and the University of Pennsylvania list curricula, faculty and their residences, schedules of lectures and texts.Admittance cards, 1850-1853, are for courses at the Jefferson Medical School in Philadelphia. They include two matriculation cards for William D. Watson of Chatham County, N. C., dated Nov., 1850, and Oct., 1852, and an examination card Oct., 1852-1853, which is signed by Dr. S. Weir Mitchell as professor of Anatomy, Surgery and Physiology. Dr. Watson returned to Chatham County after his graduation. His house was destroyed during the Civil War. The portion of his medical library saved and stored in a neighboring attic eventually was placed in the historical Collection of the library of the University of Pennsylvania Medical School.
A note (ANS) witten on the letterhead of the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.
Letter (ALS) informs recipient that Apostoli will send a recent published thesis on his electrical treatment of fibromata.
This signed document is a record of lectures attended at the Konigliche Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universitat, Berlin.
Letter (ALS). Writes about botanical specimens and his activities at West Point Military Academy.
Holograph, signed. Deed of land purchase. Witnessed by Solomon Tracy and Benajah Bushnell. Acknowledged by Richard Bushnell, Justice of the Peace.
Letter (ALS). Requests of Mr. Little, a bookdealer, the account against the Western College of Physicians and Surgeons for various medical journals.
6 letters (ALS). Writes to direct the handling of botanical and zoological specimens collected during a scientific expedition to India and America, made by Behn and Danish scientists on the warship "Galathea". Two letters give an account of the controversy connected to his appointment to the Leopold-Charles' Academy in Dresden.
2 letters (ALS), a printed calling card, and a photo of an newspaper column containing biographical information. In one letter, Blackwell writes to William Robert Prince regarding his work in horticulture.
Letter (ALS) to a colleague about a patient, the husband of a Madame Serac. Includes transcription.
Most of the material relates to the leasing of property by Bland-Sutton, in particular correspondence with his solicitor, Edward John Quintas Maggs, regarding a case against Bland-Sutton, brought by a Mrs. Heath, regarding a sublet property. Other material relates to the alteration of his surname from Sutton to Bland-Sutton.
Letter (ALS) referring to various financial matters.
Letter (ALS) regarding a case of sudden death immediately following and apparently caused by aspiration of the chest witnessed by McMurtry at the Charity Hospital of New Orleans in 1873 or 1874.
3 letters (ALS). Breschet places a subscription to Cuvier's work on fishes with a M. Lerrault. In a letter to Breschet, J. Cruveilhier expresses discontent with his situation in Montpellier.
Letter (ALS). As Director of the New York State Lunatic Asylum, Brigham writes with news about the affairs of and events at the Asylum.
2 documents, signed, appointing Henry Adams as Coroner of Norfolk County and John Rollins as Division Inspector of the Second Division of the Militia. Both documents are also signed by Alden Bradford, as Secretary of the Commonwealth.
A collection of letters (ALS) from Brown, including a letter from Brown's grandfather, the Rev. John Brown; photostats, including one of the first page of the first edition of Brown's "Horae subsecivae"; and holograph notes in an anonymous hand.
Letter (ALS) to H.S. Scott in the course of his inquiry into the "state of Public Vaccination in London."
This typed transcript copy of a letter from Bumgarner to Davison, made for Mrs. Trent, was removed from the "Bataan" copy of Davison's "Compleat Pediatrician", a volume in the Historical Collection, call number "II Davison". The letter relates that Bumgarner made much use of the book during the WWII campaign in the Pacific.
Letter (ALS) to his editor or publisher, asking for paper to finish his autobiography.
Letter (ALS). Prescribes a treatment for a gynecological patient. Includes transcription and translation.
5 letters (ALS). Includes letters to J. Forbes Royle, comparing East Indian and American caoutchouc (rubber); to John Ashburton Thompson, remarking upon the "power of coca to remove bodily fatigue"; and to Ernest Hart, disparaging the antivivisection movement.
2 notes (ANS), including a note to a Mr. Darwin.
Holograph document, in an anonymous hand. Certificate of dissolution signed by all members: Knape, Mursinna, Walter, Hermbstadt, Ribke, Formey, Willdenow, Konen, Grapengiesser, Hecker and Horn.
TLS. Coolidge expresses his interest in Way's involvement with vocational schools for veterans of the World War.
Papers include an ANS attesting that medical student Louis de Charbonnel attended Cruveilhier's course during spring 1839, and an ALS prescribing a sea water bath treatment for a brain injury.
ALS. Inquiring after Curtis' application for the position of "aurist" to the Duke and Duchess of Cumberland.
ALS. Writes that he is fearful of being removed from his office of Superintendent of Registration on the Boston Sanitary Commission as a consequence of his signing a petition requesting a Board of Health. Asks that Walker speak to Secretary of State Warner or Governor Andrew on his behalf. Gives names of others who support his cause. Encloses a copy of a letter from William B. Calhoun, addressed to Warner, arguing his case.
3 ALS. One letter relates to methods of observing flies. A letter addressed to Jenner Weir discusses sexual selection among birds, the possibility of inherited effects of injury, and the question whether birds construct their nests based on instinct or learning. This letter makes mention of Edward Jenner, George Rolleston and Alfred Russel Wallace.
ANS from Walter B. Cheadle and from William Roberts.
Autograph, signed. Attests that Henriette Vitteur entered service as his cook on that day.
Holograph signed. Typed English translation available. Desault concludes that section of the pubis is not a dangerous operation and that in certain cases it is preferable to the Cesarean section.
Dorothea Dix was an American author, teacher, and reformer who advocated for improving treatment and facilities for mental health care. She also served as a superintendent for women nurses during the American Civil War. This collection consists of assorted pieces of correspondence and poetry by Dix, many relating to her health, treatment of patients, and other personal topics. Includes a 1862 letter signed by Abraham Lincoln relaying her recommendations to Edwin Stanton.
ALS dated 1822, June 5, is a recommendation for Robert T.P. Fiske. An undated ALS to a friend refers to a difficult obstetrics case.
Holograph documents, some are signed by Dodge. Record services rendered to the town of Salisbury and payments received by James R. Dodge.
ALS. Relates the circumstances of Dreys' visit to Paris, namely the death of his sister, widow of Dr. Alphonse Sanson. Informs Blanche of a visit to M. Kaempfen in Paris. Asks Blanche to convey his gratitude to "le Directeur" for granting him leave to attend to the funeral. The letter also bears an ANS, dated 1887. Jan. 22, from E. Blanche, Auteuil, to "confrere et ami", presumably forwarding Dreys' letter to "le Directeur."
ANS. Regretfully declines invitation.
ALS. Recommends a Mr. Dodd to James Buchanan, Esq.
End fragment of an ALS.
Letters from Niels R. Finsen, the 1903 Nobel Prize awardee for Medicine or Physiology. Envelope addressed to Hr. Docent Dr. phil.Schmidt-Nielsen, Lysintituts Laboratorium, Rosenvaenget, [Kobenhaven]. Typescript transcription of the Danish text and English translation.
ALS. Fisher writes of his journal, presumably of the expedition of the H.M.S. Dorothea and Trent in 1818, and of the publication of Parry's account of the same. He writes of a future expedition, aboard the H.M.S. Hecla.
Holograph documents, a few signed. Account statements and receipts of payments for medical services, advice and medicine, rendered to the town of Salisbury by Dr. Henry Fish.
ANS. Asks the addressee to make a house call.
ALS. Correspondence from Jesse Foot and his nephew, Jesse Foot, Jr., who succeeded him in his practice, to the publishers and printers John Nichols (1745-1826) and his son John Bowyer Nichols (1779-1863), relating to the publication of Foot's work. Foot, Jr., informs Nichols of his uncle's death. In a pair of letters Foot inquires into the date of birth of William Johnstone Strathmore.
ALS. Fothergill comments upon a volume sent him by Emanual Mendez da Costa, foreign secretary of the Royal Society of London. Da Costa writes in reply. His letter bears no signature.
ALS relating to financial matters.
Correspondence concerning Louis Ginsberg's bookplate collection, 1958-1968.
ALS. A cordial personal letter.
Mostly ALS. W.D. Alexander writes on Hawaiian history and refers to Goodhue's book. Drs. Fontoynont, Miyajima, Jeanselme, Montizombert, Nemorin and Anpeville write in reply to Goodhue's requests for information on literature on leprosy in their respective countries. M.F. Obregon writes regarding an appointment. Drs. Lie and Hansen of Bergen writes with reference to the Second International Leprosy Congress held in 1909. Among the letters is a typed manuscript, with answers to question on leprosy, signed by an unknown person.
Certificate of admittance as Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons of England.
ALS. A personal letter.
ALS. Enthusiastic reception of Lee's pamphlet on ventilation.
Receipts of payment, miscellaneous notes, and a list of notes due to the estate of Dr. Lee Griggs, dec'd.
2 ALS. Introduces his son, asking for Potts' aid in establishing him as a solicitor. Recommends a water treatment for Mrs. Potts' back complaint.
Document, signed. Authorizes the sale of his stock in the Company of Merchants of Great Britain Trading in the South Seas and other Parts of America.
ALS to Harley. S.W. Moore writes on the physiological chemistry of the brain. Sir Thomas Smith (1833-1909) of King's College, Edinburgh, writes on pharmacology.
ANS to Hart, relating to social engagements and editorial matters, from Samuel Wilks, Alfred Baring Garrod, John Simon, George Burrows, Thomas Lauder Brunton, William Stokes, Thomas Spencer Wells, Henry Thompson, Joseph Fayrer, James Paget and John Russell Reynolds, among others. Oddly, one note is dated 4 Feb. --18.
Holograph document, signed. Payment received of Thomas Walley for twine.
ANS. Informs addressee that she was elected coroner the previous year.
ALS from Howe and a document, signed, in French from P. Flourens, acknowledging receipt of material sent to the Academie des Sciences.
ALS, in French. Humboldt writes to P.H. Azais and Jules Berger de Xivrey on politics, philosophy, his expeditions, ethnology, natural history and the influence and inspiration of French thought. In 1966 Fritz Lange, of the Alexander-von-Humboldt-Kommission, writes to the Duke Medical Center Library regarding the Kommission's project to locate world-wide all correspondence to and from Humboldt.
Holograph documents, signed. Receipts of payments made by the town of Salisbury to Dr. Asahel Humphrey, as well as Drs. M.A. Lee and William Walton.
ALS.
Document, signed. Certificate to practice medicine, issued by the Connecticut State Medical Society to William Hyde, signed by Jeremiah West, James Potter, Simon Wolcott, and Avery Downer.
ALS and two clippings. The first clipping puts forth W.T.G. Morton's claim to the discovery of the anaesthetic properties of ether. In a letter to Joseph Hale Abbot, Jackson remarks bitterly on this public campaign, led by Drs. Bowditch and Bigelow. Jackson counters in the second clipping with his own claim to the discovery, as substantiated by several foreign juries.
ALS. Expresses his desire to obtain a copy of a catalogue for his "Cushingiana". Muses upon the fact that people can think of books in the midst of war.
ALS. Sends vaccine matter and gives detailed instructions on its use.
ALS. Writes that, in his opinion, yellow fever is not contagious, but rather "an epidemical fever, arising from some general cause". He draws upon observations of cases in Philadelphia and in the West Indies.
ALS, TLS, cards and reprints. Correspondence to Kelly from Ernest Watson Cushing; from Benjamin Frantz, on the earliest use of ether and chloroform; from William Halsted, on gynecological surgery; from William W. Keen, on yellow fever; from Fielding H. Garrison, on medical history; from D'Arcy Power; and from H.S. Jennings, on evolution. Sir Alexander Russell Simpson, Evelyn Blantyre Simpson, and James Young Simpson, all relatives of Sir James Young Simpson, relate family news. William H. Welch, friend and colleague, writes on personal and professional matters, including the faculty and staff at the Johns Hopkins Medical School, Osler and the founding of the Medical School, medical ethics, the organization of the military medical services, and World War I.
The two letters seem to have been dictated, taken by Mr. Barth. Correspondents are a Mr. Coombes and a Mr. Burns.
ALS, relating to various social engagements and household arrangements.
ALS. Describes an operation successfully performed on the Archbishop of Paris in 1774.
ANS. Asks addressee to bring his "memoire" to the evening's gathering.
ALS relating to arrangements to lecture in chemistry and a brief biographical sketch.
ANS. Requests a meeting with Bleadnell. On bottom portion of page, Bleadnell notes that he visited Sir James on January 9.
ALS. Sends Mrs. Alston a description of a method for obtaining and purifying nitrous oxide.
ALS, TLS and TL. MacNider writes to Dr. W.P. Kavanagh regarding a terminal case of myocardial infarction. Included is a typescript, unsigned, of a letter to MacNider from Kavanagh.
ALS. Expresses his thanks for help given one of his students.
Circular letter, signed, soliciting contributions for the proposed institution from all towns within the Commonwealth. This examplar is addressed to the town of Leicester and signed by Thomas H. Perkins, Daniel Sargent, Joseph May, Josiah Quincy, Tristram Barnard and Richard Sullivan.
ALS. Refers to Mayo's efforts to secure Davy's appointment as consulting surgeon at Yarmouth.
Letters of recommendation written by McClellan, for William Milnor, Jr., with Prof. Jacob Green; for Robert J. Dodd; and for George R. Morton, with John Eberle, Prof. Smith, B. Rush Rhees and John Baines.
Mitchell corresponds with Oliver Wendell Holmes and Jacob Whitman Bailey regarding his book, On the cryptogamous origin of malarious and epidemic fevers. Papers also include a line drawing, removed from Mitchell's son's copy of Gower's lectures on the diagnosis of diseases of the brain, pub. 1885; a letter of recommendation for Andrew Ellicott Kennedy; and printed sheet music, Oh! Fly to the prairie, with lyrics by Mitchell.
ALS. Writes of his arrival in Germany and of the English military medical service in general.
TLS. Regretfully declines invitation to write an article.
Josiah Clark Nott was a surgeon, ethnologist, and enslaver with a medical practice in Mobile, Alabama. Collection consists of two letters and one note, written by Nott from Mobile. The 1839 letter speaks of payment for services and financial difficulties; the 1855 letter comments favorably on a work by Arthur de Gobineau on the theory of racial differences, published in French in the U.S. in 1855, which upheld the superiority of the "Aryan race" and thus promoted slavery as a just and moral system. Nott mentions in the 1855 letter that he had hired a "young friend" to help with the translation of Gobineau's work into English, which was published in 1856 in a much shortened and edited form. The undated note asks about the suitability of evening attire. Acquired as part of the Trent Collection, History of Medicine Collections at Duke University.
ALS. Discusses the state of health of his patient, the Duchess of Newcastle, and his use of the Bath waters in her treatment.
ALS. Accepts the vice presidency of the American Institute of Instruction from Cushing, a Boston merchant and philanthropist.
Church of Saint Peter and Paul, East Harling, Norfolk -- Oxford Castle, Oxford -- Strangers' Hall -- Merton College, Oxford -- Eysingham Gate, Norfolk -- Cancelled Plate.
ALS. Responds to Green's request for the autograph of J.C. Breckinridge. Page served on Breckinridge's staff during the Civil War.
ALS. Paget writes a cordial personal letter to a Dr. Ewens. Sir Frederick Treves writes Paget regarding the Research Defence Society.
ALS. Personal and professional correspondence includes letters from R.N.D. Desgenettes, Jeffries Wyman, John Jeffries, John Collins Warren, James Thacher, Thomas M. Potter, George Hayward, John Witt Randall, Enoch Hale, John White Webster, Jerome van Crowninshield Smith, John D. Fisher, James Jackson and J.B. Whitridge. Papers also include a letter from Parsons to his brother-in-law, Oliver Wendell Holmes.
ALS. Request for student tickets to the college lectures.
Papers include a letter requesting the transfer of a relative; a note on his work on rabies; autograph manuscript notes on a text by Edou. Dumas, which refer to incorrect calculations in Lavoisier's work; and six pages of holograph manuscript notes, corrected by Pasteur, on the proceedings of the Academy of Medicine, Paris, March 19, 1878, which relate to his work on anthrax.
3 ALS. Inquires after mutual friends, among them George Pearson. Offers an account of his travels in eastern Europe, of his efforts to promote vaccination, of his research and experiments, and of the progress of the Napoleonic Wars.
Petition addressed "To his Excellency--The President of the Confederate States of America" from the citizens of Cripple Creek, Wythe County, Va. requesting the exemption of Dr. C.C. Campbell, the family physician for the area, to be exempted, detailed, and left in the area.
ANS. Excuses his absence from a committee meeting.
ALS relating to his interest in and publications on history. A newspaper clipping accompanies letters.
Papers include ALS, a receipt for taxes paid, and a statement of service for Jacques Francois Baron. The fourth item is an English translation of a missing item.
ALS. Recommends Dr. Richard North for a position in the Medical Department of the United States Army.
1 ALS from Pugnet to Benjamin Morel and a short description of Pugnet's life in an anonymous hand.
ALS. William Osler writes about his work on Boerhaave and on The evolution of modern medicine. Fielding H. Garrison writes with instructions on how to obtain a copy of The history of military medicine.
ALS. Ray writes to Rev. Dr. Peabody, perhaps Andrew P. Peabody (1811-1893), of his plans to submit an article on Jarvis' Report, and to booksellers in Paris.
ALS. Retzius writes a letter of recommendation, in Swedish, and to C.F. Quintard, thanking him for the honor of the conferral of a diploma from the Aesculapian Society.
Fragment of a ALS, with signature.
ALS. Asks if papers submitted for contests of the Societe de medecine are returned after the announcements of the awards.
ALS. Declines invitation to become a member of the National League, "Pro-Italia."
Papers consist of three types of material: correspondence, loose manuscript leaves, and ms. notebooks. Correspondence consists of letters written by Sayer, his wife, Sarah A. Sayer, and the Superintendent at the Asylum, John Gray, during Sayer's stay at the Asylum. Loose manuscripts consist of miscellaneous notes, a poem, Sayer's teacher certification, and the school lists of both Sayer and his wife, then Sarah Ann Bennet. Notebooks: "Sketches of life" (a journal, tp., 23 pp., 1842-1859); "A book intended for writings" (notebook of essays and poems, tp., 23 pp., 1837); and an algebra notebook (tp., 85 pp., 1833) with notes on town bonds at the end (3 pp., 1872).
ALS. Asks whether Thacher received a parcel of books and articles sent to him by way of his neighbor.
ALS to an Alexander Wilcocks and an ANS certifying that Jacob Hicks attended his lectures upon anatomy, surgery and midwifery.
ALS. Relates information on a parasite.
Als. Tipped in Duke Medical Center Library Historical Collection copy of her work, "Un cas celebre de melancolie, Lord Byron". Letter accompanies book, both intended for unknown recipient. The letter excuses the "poor quality" of the work, explaining the various circumstances under which the work was written.
2 ALS, regarding an upcoming operation and a social call, and an autograph signature sample.
ALS. Writes of the circumstances of the death of Grier's son in the explosion of The Miami.
ALS from Stopes to Lord Samuel and TL, presumably from Lord Samuel, to Stopes. In this exchange, Lord Samuel declines Stopes' request to review her collection of poems, "We burn", in his upcoming presentation to the English Association.
ANS. Sets a time to meet the next day.
ANS. Requests that addressee communicate information regarding veterinary schools directly to Lieut. Cabanis.
ALS to his nephew, then a student at Phillips Exeter Academy. Throop praises the academic reputation of the school, relates news of a cotton mill fire and reports on the health of various family members.
ALS. Informs Talbot that upon his return to London he will suggest the appointment of a subcommittee to report upon a certain matter.
ALS. A copy of his letter to Miss "Fanny" Clifton, written hours before his departure to the Mediterranean for Naval service, in which he passionately bids her farewell.
ALS. Tyndall inquires after "the character of the instruction" received by the two sons of a deceased acquaintance.
Autograph postcard, signed. A biographical note accompanies card.
ALS. Prescribes a course of treatment for a child patient.
ALS. Recommends a M. Gallet for a position of copy clerk.
ALS. Sends copies of a lecture to a colleague in Baltimore.
ALS. A social letter.
ALS. Reports no great change in the condition of a Miss Andrews and prescribes various medicines.
ALS, including a description of the Siamese twins Chang and Eng, prescriptions and a letter of recommendation, and newspaper clippings of obituary notices.
ALS. Declines an invitation and relates personal news.
ALS. Inquires after a paper submitted for publication.
ALS. Letter of recommendation for Doctor Forester Dexter.
2 ALS. Pertains to the exchange of copies of a book by Wilson. Wilson asks for Hunt's marked copy and offers a fresh copy.
TLS. Asks that the use of the club be extended to J.W. Babcock of Columbia, South Carolina.
Triangle Community Works! was formed in 1994 and consists of a coalition of groups, including ASPYN (A Safer Place Youth Network), The Gay and Lesbian Helpline, P-FLAG (Parents, Families, and Friends of Lesbians and Gays), and RRNGLE (Raleigh Religious Network for Gay and Lesbian Equality). Collection includes historical documents from several groups in Triangle Community Works!, including ASPYN, RRNGLE, and the Gay and Lesbian Helpline. Materials date from the 1970s to 2008.
The papers span Turner's career as a scholar of American literature, from his undergraduate education at West Texas State University in 1927 to his death in 1980, when he was an instructor at Southwest Texas State University. Comprised primarily of personal and professional correspondence with scholars and publishers of American literature, including Gay Wilson Allen, John Q. Anderson, Louis Budd, Robert Cantwell, James B. Colvert, Eddie Gay Cone, Benjamin Franklin Fisher, Albert Mordell, Norman Holmes Pearson, William Stafford, and Edmund Wilson. There are also letters, printed matter, reports, and minutes that Turner collected as a member or officer of organizations, including the American Literature Section of the Modern Language Association, Committee for American Studies, and the Associated Research Council. The Turner Papers also document the development of high school, collegiate, and graduate level instruction in American literature through the organizational records and course materials, the latter of which include Turner's personal writings and research notes, subject files, clippings, lecture notes, and other printed materials on various authors or genres of American literature, including Southern literature, American humor, Nathaniel Hawthorne and George Washington Cable.
The TCAS Academic Advising Center, formerly the TCAS Pre-Major Advising Center, located on East Campus provides academic advising resources to students before they declare a major. This collection contains memoranda, monthly newsletters, committee papers ranging in date from 1981-1994; freshman guidebooks ranging in date from 1985-1996; and basic documents regarding in-school scholarships.
AIESEC (formerly known as Association Internationale des étudiants en Sciences économiques et Commerciales) coordinates international exchange traineeships for students of business and related fields. The Duke University chapter of AIESEC was founded ca. 1966. Records include general correspondence, business contact lists, recruiting materials, and evaluations. Major subjects include Duke University students, student groups, international student exchange, business education, and Association Internationale des étudiants en Sciences économiques et Commerciales. Materials range in date from 1966-1970. English.
The Beta Eta chapter of the Alpha Kappa Psi business fraternity was established at Duke University in 1929; the chapter dissolved sometime after 1963. Records contain correspondence, bylaws, membership records, constitution, handbook, reports, certificates, and a brief history of the Beta Eta chapter of Alpha Kappa Psi. English.
Education and travel records from the Alumni Affairs Office including fliers, correspondence, and memoranda.
The Duke Amandla Chorus is a student chorale organization that performs traditional music from various countries in Africa in the respective languages. The records span 2016-2017 and include images, moving image recordings, photographs, lyrics, and organizational records.
The Alpha Phi Omega, Lambda Nu Chapter was founded in 1955 at Duke University. The student service fraternity performs variety of volunteer activities in Durham as well as greater North Carolina and South Carolina. The Alpha Phi Omega, Lambda Nu Chapter Records contain minutes, reports, correspondence, administrative information, slides, composite photographs, audio tapes, scrapbooks, and other materials. English.
The Office of Ordnance Research (OOR), U.S. Army, a Class II military institution, established offices on the Duke University campus in June 1951. On January 16, 1961 the OOR ceased to exist and was instead re-designated as the Army Research Office-Durham (AROD) under the command of the Chief, Research and Development. The 1960s and 1970s saw a weakening in the working relationship between the military and the scientific communities. In the spring of 1975, ARO left the Duke campus and moved to the Research Triangle Park, ten miles southeast of Durham. Collection contains materials pertaining to the mission and organization of the U.S. Army Office of Ordinance Research, the forerunner of the Army Research Office-Durham (AROD). The materials in the collection span the years 1957-1982.
James David Barber was a Political Science professor at Duke from 1972-1995. The scrapbook includes news clippings, correspondence, family photographs and childhood memories from the years roughly 1939-1996.
The Sports Information Office provides information about Duke athletics to the media. They also facilitate press interviews with Duke athletes and coaches. The collection includes clippings, press releases, statistics, rosters, programs and press brochures/media guides about the baseball team at Duke University. The material ranges in date from 1933-ongoing.
The Bassett Affair is a celebrated case that helped establish the concept of academic freedom in higher education in the United States and is a benchmark incident in race relations in the South. John Spencer Bassett, a Trinity College professor, published a series of articles in the South Atlantic Quarterly (1903) that praised the accomplishments of African Americans and offered views on how to improve race relations. A campaign to remove Bassett from the faculty was thwarted by a vote of support for Bassett from the University's Board of Trustees on Dec. 2, 1903. The collection contains essays, articles, clippings, correspondence, reminiscences, and other published and unpublished matter including Bassett's article, Stirring Up the Fires of Race Antipathy (1903); a scrapbook, 1903-1904, kept by Trinity College officials with newspaper clippings documenting national coverage the case received; copies of letters by Theodore Roosevelt to Owen Wister (1906) commenting on the case and on Trinity; manuscripts of My Recollections of the Bassett Trial, by Robert Lee Durham (1936), The Bassett Affair: A Play in Six Acts, by Baird Straughan (1975), and Crisis at Trinity a play by John Merritt (1989); lists of related materials in other collections; various shorter articles and speeches including comments by Richard L. Watson and an address to the Academic Council by Terry Sanford; and materials from the centennial celebration of the Bassett Affair, collected by University Archives staff. English.
The Sports Information Office provides information on Duke athletes and sports teams to the media. The collection includes largely clippings, statistics, press releases, programs and some correspondence. A good portion of the material is xeroxed.
John S. Bradway was a professor to Richard Nixon while he was a student at Duke Law School in the 1930s. The collection consists of letters, telegrams, and cards sent to and from Richard Nixon prior to his 1968 election, during his presidency and subsequent impeachment, and following his resignation in 1974 during his second term in office. Topics in the correspondence include the Vietnam War, political protests, Nixon's coverage in the press, his impeachment trial, and his book.
Bill Bramberg graduated from Duke University in 1957. The collection includes clippings, photographs, LPs, and Hoof'n'Horn memorabilia.
Branscomb became a member of the Library Council in 1928 and served as Director of the Duke University Library from 1934 to 1941. Collection contains library reports, collection information, and correspondence to and from B. Harvie Branscomb.
The Duke Chapel fifty-bell carillon was installed in 1932 and is used to play afternoon recitals, and programs on holidays and other public occasions. Duke's carillon has been played by university carillonneurs Anton Brees and J. Samuel Hammond. The collection was created by Hammond, and contains records relating to the operations and activities of Duke Chapel carillon and ranges in date from 1929-2022. Materials include administrative records, correspondence, printed recital programs, carillon and carillonneur material, clippings, photographs, and performance recordings.
The Chamber Arts Society was created in 1945 and is dedicated to the performance of classical music by small chamber ensembles. This collection includes programs for many performances from 1990-2016.
H. Keith H. Brodie came to Duke in 1974 as professor and chairman of the Department of Psychiatry and director of Psychiatric Services at Duke University Medical Center. Dr. Brodie served as Duke's Chancellor from 1982 to 1985 and as Duke's President from 1985 to 1993. Collection includes university administrative records, personal papers, manuscripts, photographs, printed matter, memorabilia, and other material created or received by Dr. Brodie during his tenure as Chancellor, 1982-1985. Subjects include admissions, the Academic Council, alumni, committees and campaigns, athletics, The Duke Endowment, various university departments, the Medical Center, and Student Affairs. English.
August Kenneth Pye (1931-1994) was twice Chancellor of Duke University (1970-1971 and 1976-1982). In addition to the chancellorship, he was Dean of the School of Law (1968-1970), University Counsel (1971-1974), Acting Dean of the School of Law (1973), Dean of the School of Law (1973-1977), Director of the Center for International Studies (1982-1984), and Samuel Fox Mordecai Professor of Law (1982-1987). Collection includes memoranda, correspondence, published materials, reports, printed matter, clippings and other materials generated by the Office of the Chancellor during Pye's two terms as Chancellor (1970-1971 and 1976-1982). There are also correspondence, speeches, printed matter, and subject files collected by Pye from 1968 to 1976 as Dean of the School of Law, Chancellor, and University Counsel.
Lewis Chase taught in the English Department at Duke University beginning in 1929. It is unclear when/if he left the University. He died in 1937. The collection largely includes material pertaining to Chase's research on writer Edgar Allan Poe. It ranges in date from 1807-1941.
The Commencement Exercises Reference Collection contains commencement programs; addresses, speeches, and sermons; and associated material.
The Counseling Center offered general psychological counseling to students, faculty, staff, and the Durham community, particularly in the areas of career planning and education, and personal and social development. It also provided students with information about jobs, graduate school, financial aid, foreign study, and employment. Records contain printed material relating to the Counseling Center and its predecessor, the Bureau of Testing and Guidance, including correspondence, reports, memoranda, financial statements, printed matters, and other materials. The materials range in date from 1950-1970.
The Duke-UNC Center for Research on Women was founded in 1982 as a collaborative endeavor between Duke University and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill to promote Women's Studies scholarship, research, and curriculum development in the South. The project was originally named the Duke-UNC Women's Studies Research Center, but changed its name to the Duke-UNC Center for Research on Women in 1987. The Center operated with support from the Ford Foundation and the Rockefeller Foundation, smaller grants from local foundations, and institutional backing from Duke and UNC. The records contain correspondence, reports, grant documents, audiotapes, a videotape, and other materials relating to the Center for Research on Women. Major subjects include women's studies curriculum development and research, pay equity, and the relationships between race, class, and gender. Materials range in date from 1982 to 1992. English.
The Dance Program Performance Films are a video record of the performances put on by the Duke Dance Program from 1990-2012.
Desarrolla is a student organization whose goal is to promote Latin America by encouraging partnerships between members of the Duke community and communities within Latin America. The Desarrolla Records span 2014-2016 and include founding documents, organization information, records of the marketing and networking teams, and brand image materials.
The Duke Human Rights Center at the Franklin Humanities Institute is an interdisciplinary center focused on promoting education and action around human rights, which offers an undergraduate certification. The Duke Human Rights Center at the Franklin Humanities Institute records include materials related to programs and events run by the DHRC, as well as other materials.
Dick Groat (Class of '52) received numerous accolades for his performances in baseball and basketball while at Duke. Groat then served two years in the United States Army. He went on to play 14 seasons in Major League Baseball, winning World Series Championships with the Pittsburgh Pirates in 1960 and St. Louis Cardinals in 1964. He was also named the National League's Most Valuable Player in 1960. The collection includes a scrapbook containing clippings that document Groat's athletic career at Duke and several issues of the Belvoir Castle that contain articles documenting his baseball and basketball career while playing in various armed services leagues with inclusive dates 1948-1955.
A report and presentation slideshow regarding social and gender relations among undergraduates. The report was released in April 2014.
This collection consists of original and copy negatives taken by various sources over several decades. Most of the negatives were produced by the Office of News and Communication's News Bureau in the early years of Duke University and later by University Photography (upon its establishment).
The Duke Chapel is the central focus of Duke University's West Campus, a Gothic-style church completed in 1935. The book Duke Chapel Illuminated, consisting of numerous photographs of the Chapel including the stained glass windows, carvings and statues, and other details, was published in 2001. The collection includes photographs taken for the creation of the book, especially of the stained glass windows, statues, and carvings in, and views of, the chapel, as well as some material about the production of the book.
Duke Photography, formerly called Duke University Photography, was the official photographic service of Duke University. The Duke Photography Records include many of the original photographs taken by the service from the 1960s through the 2010s.
Duke Taekwondo is a Sport Club training in the World Taekwondo style of Taekwondo. The Duke Taekwondo records cover 2017-2019 and include of background documents and photographs, among other administrative material.
Louis Dupree was a scholar, educator, and consultant on the refugees, politics, and archaeology of Afghanistan and Pakistan. He served as a Senior Research Associate for the Program in Islamic and Arabian Development Studies at Duke University during the late 1980s. The Louis Dupree Papers contain correspondence, notes, clippings, conference programs, drafts, manuscripts, speeches, newsletters, interview transcripts, research materials, teaching materials, a scrapbook, photographs, grant applications, memorabilia, student papers, a dissertation, and other materials related to the personal life and professional career of archaeologist, activist, and scholar Louis Dupree. Major subjects include Louis Dupree, Nancy Hatch Dupree, the Duke University Program in Islamic and Arabian Development Studies, Ralph Braibanti, Afghanistan, Afghan refugees, Afghanistan-Pakistan relations, Pakistan, the United States Army 11th Airborne, the United States Army 187th Airborne, and the United States Military Academy at West Point. English.
Robert Lee Durham was a star athlete who graduated from Trinity College in 1891. His collection contains correspondence, manuscripts of orations and songs, clippings and other printed materials.
The Duke University Union Reference Collection contains files of printed materials documenting Union administration and programming. This collection was compiled from a variety of sources by the University Archives for use in reference and research.
ECOS (Environmentally Conscious Organization of Students) is a Duke University and Durham, N.C. environmental activist group founded in 1969. ECOS is also known as the Environmental Alliance. The records of ECOS include articles of incorporation, event reports, member lists, ECOS constitutions, bylaws, minutes, correspondence, printed e-mail correspondence, a webpage printout, financial materials, clippings, flyers, meeting announcements, and newsletters. Major subjects include Duke University students, ECOS, Duke Environmental Center, Durham (N.C.) history, New Hope Dam, Eno River State Park, environmental protection, public interest groups, political activity, and student groups. Materials range in date from 1969 to 1990 (bulk 1970-1973). English.
The Pratt School of Engineering traces its history back to 1851 when Normal College, a forerunner of Duke University, advertised a Classical course which included engineering for seniors. The School of Engineering Reference Collection contains files of clippings, articles, bulletins, reports, publications, and other materials about the School of Engineering.
The Environmentalism Reference Collection contains files of clippings, flyers, announcements, publications, reports and other materials pertaining to environmental matters at the University. This collection was compiled from a variety of sources by the University Archives for use in reference and research.
The Ephemera Collection includes event tickets, dining hall placemats, football game tickets, receipts, decals, pins, meal books and tickets, programs, photographcs, and other materials related to student life at Duke.
The Sports Information Office provides information about Duke athletics to the media. They also facilitate press interviews with Duke athletes and coaches. The collection includes clippings, press releases, statistics, rosters, programs and press brochures/media guides about the field hockey team at Duke University. The material ranges in date from 1977-ongoing.
The University Finances Reference Collection contains files of publications, reports, news clippings, and memoranda related to the University's investments, fundraising, budgeting and similar financial matters. This collection was compiled from a variety of sources by the University Archives for use in reference and research.
The Friends of Duke Chapel was founded in 1974 to provide the means for interested persons to organize into an ongoing, supportive, participatory group to support the ministry and program of Duke Chapel. The records consist of correspondence, official letters to members, advisory board and committee minutes and reports, newsletters, and other organization publications. Materials are present from 1973 to 1999. English.
The Fuqua School of Business Reference Collection contains files of memoranda, clippings, and other printed materials about the school. This collection was compiled from a variety of sources by the University Archives for use in reference and research.
William Gannaway was a Professor of Latin and History at Trinity College in Randolph County from 1857 until his retirement in 1892. The collection includes account books and grade books as well as a small amount of correspondence and notes. The material ranges in date from 1853-1906.
Gilbert-Addoms Residence Hall is a freshman dormitory on East Campus. Contains the records of activities of residents Gilbert-Addoms Residence Hall. Types of materials include flyers, newsletters, agendas, notes, calendars, and damage reports. Major topics include residential living, Duke University, and social activities among students. The collection also contains accounting materials related to Addoms House. Materials date from 1957-1992 (bulk 1991-1992).
William Henry Glasson (1874-1946) was Professor of Political Economy and Social Science at Trinity College and Duke University and dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. This collection primarily documents his professional life through his correspondence, writings, and research. It forms parts of the Economists' Papers Archive.
The Duke Graduate Liberal Studies program was founded in 1984, under director Bonnie E. Erickson. The program grants a Master of Arts in Liberal studies (MALS) and is sometimes referred to as the MALS program. The materials include programs, curriculum development, faculty folders, photographs, slides, and correspondence.
The Duke Graduate Students Union is a student organization partnered with the Service Employees International Union (SEIU) to create a labor union representing graduate student workers at Duke University. Records cover the campaign to form a collective bargaining union as well as subsequent efforts to organize as a direct-action, direct-join union.
John R. Gregg, former professor of zoology, was born December 16, 1916. He received his undergraduate degree from the University of Alabama, and then completed a Ph.D. in biology at Princeton in 1946. For a decade, he served on the faculty at Columbia University before coming to Duke in 1957. He stayed at Duke until his retirement in 1986. Gregg was also a skilled longbow archer and his papers contain some information about archery. In 2009, he died at the age of 92. The John Gregg Papers contain mostly information about Dr. Gregg's research and work including materials related to the courses he taught. His interest in archery is also reflected. The collection also contains significant correspondence between Gregg and J.H. Woodger, an influential 20th century British theoretical biologist and philosopher of biology.
Contains the personal and professional records of Paul Magnus Gross, a Duke University administrator, researcher, educator, and scholar. Gross was an Assistant Professor of Chemistry (1919-1920), William H. Pegram Professor of Chemistry (1920-1965), Chair of the Chemistry Department (1921-1948), Dean of the Graduate School (1947-1952), Dean of the University (1952-1958), and Vice-President in the Educational Division (1949-1960). The Paul M. Gross Chemistry Laboratory was named in his honor. Gross was also an independent consultant with the United States Army and various commercial companies. Types of materials include correspondence, clippings, reports, research papers, meeting notes, conference materials, contracts, speeches, dedications, eulogies, lecture notes, financial information, postcards, and building plans. Major subjects include Duke University, the Graduate School, the Department of Chemistry, University Council, the Board of Trustees, University Research Council, Duke University administration, University Committee on Long-Range Planning, Oak Ridge Institute of Nuclear Studies, study and teaching of physical sciences, military training, war education, munitions development, United States Navy, United States Army, Office of Ordnance Research, universities in the southern United States, and the Gross-Edens controversy. Major correspondents include J. Deryl Hart, Robert Lee Flowers, Douglas M. Knight, Marcus Hobbs, Charles E. Jordan, and Arthur Hollis Edens. Materials range in date from 1935-1979. English.
Dr. Norman Guttman taught in the Department of Psychology from 1951 until his death in 1984. The collection contains correspondence from 1952-1982.
Charles R. Hauser was a 40 year faculty member at Duke University. He came to Duke as an instructor in Chemistry in 1929. He was appointed to full professor in 1946 and was named a James B. Duke professor of chemistry in 1961. Collection primarily consists of abstracts of articles which Hauser was co-author. Materials in the collection date from 1924 to 1969.
Frederic Hollyday was a professor in the Dept. of History from 1956-1982. The collection includes meeting minutes, memoranda and relating to his research and administrative duties and ranges in date from 1943-1971.
Hoof 'n' Horn Student Musical Theater Company was first formed in 1936 at Duke University. The organization's purpose is to provide the highest possible standard of amateur theater to the Duke University and Triangle Area communities, to serve as an educational vehicle to provide practical experience in all aspects of musical theater, and to be responsible for all necessary assets for the production of shows which it sponsors. The collection features musical scores, orchestrations, sheet music, scripts, programs, posters, a scrapbook, video and audio recordings, and administrative materials. Major subjects include Duke University students and musical productions. English.
The Office of Human Resources Reference Collection contains files of memoranda, personnel policy notices, employee handbooks and newsletters, policy manuals, news clippings, literature on training opportunities, and other materials concerning the personnel management functions of the University. Materials date from the early 1950s through the 1990s. Major subjects include benefits, wages and salaries, upward mobility programs and training, services for employees, employee awards and appreciation events, and personnel policies and work rules. This collection was compiled from a variety of sources by the University Archives for use in reference and research.
The position of Personnel Director has existed at Duke since 1949. In 1980 the division of Human Resources was created to oversee all aspects of employee affairs and relations. The collection contains memoranda, policy statements, wage and salary information, pay range documentation, and various other materials relating to employee relations and personnel management at Duke University.
The Interfraternity Council at Duke University, established in 1957, is the umbrella organization for local chapters of national fraternities. The Council interacts with representatives of campus fraternities to promote adherence to University policies and to create opportunities for fraternities to serve the campus community. This collection contains meeting agendas and minutes, pledge programs, certificates, manuals, clippings, incident reports, reports, miscellaneous writings, and printed material. General topics include correspondence between fraternities and the Interfraternity Council, judicial board files, individual chapter constitutions and bylaws, alcohol policies, hazing, pledging, property damage to fraternity houses, leadership, scholarship, and reorganization of fraternities at Duke. Contains restricted materials. The bulk of material is from 1960-1980. English.
International Comparative Studies (ICS) is an undergraduate interdisciplinary academic program affiliated with Duke University in Durham, North Carolina. The collection's files document the program's academic mission and operations, chiefly dating from the 1980s to 2011, and comprise course files, correspondence and memos, budget and grant files, alumni information, newsletter files, student work, questionnaires, materials on programming and conferences, and files about related Duke offices such as Trinity Arts and Sciences and Comparative Area Studies.
George "Jelly" Leftwich joined Duke University in 1926 as conductor of the Duke University Club Orchestra. He is best remembered for having written the words and music to Duke's fight song, "The Blue and White." The scrapbook contains newspaper clippings, photos, programs, invitations, tickets, booklets, advertisements, posters, and memorabilia related to the Duke University music department, as well as George "Jelly" Leftwich's personal photos and documents. The items date from 1925 to 1931.
John Nelson Cole, Jr. was an undergraduate student at Trinity College from 1905-1909. The scrapbook includes diary-style entries, photographs, clippings, receipts, tickets, poems, short stories, correspondence and other memorabilia related to his final year at Trinity College and his subsequent career. The scrapbook ranges in date from 1905-1919.
The Sigma Delta Chapter of Kappa Delta was chartered at Duke University in 1912. Types of material include correspondence, historical accounts, photographs, printed materials, and scrapbooks. Major subjects include student life at Duke University, establishment of a sorority, organization, pledging, initiation, community service activities, social activities, general governance, leadership, and public relations. The collection ranges in date from 1935-1981.
Wladyslaw W. Kulski was born in Warsaw, Poland on July 27, 1903. After earning his doctorate, Dr. Kulski served as diplomat and an educator. He taught Political Science at Duke University from 1964 until his retirement in 1973. He died May 16, 1989. Materials include correspondence, pamphlets, manuscripts, course notes, notebooks, photographs, printed matter and a scrapbook. The collection ranges in date from 1710-1987 and is in English, Polish, French and German.
William Thomas Laprade was Professor of History at Trinity College (now Duke University) from 1909 to 1953 and Chair of the Department of History from 1938 to 1952. Papers contain personal and professional correspondence, notes, reports, printed materials, manuscript materials, photographs, diplomas, memorabilia, clippings, student papers, and letters from the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries. Major subjects include William Thomas Laprade, history of Trinity College, Trinity College Press, Duke University Press, Duke University Department of History, Duke University libraries, The South Atlantic Quarterly, the American Association of University Professors, study and teaching of European history, American Historical Association, the North Carolina Department of Archives and History, Kiwanis Club of Durham, and Phi Beta Kappa. Major subjects of correspondence include family life, the Great Depression, World War I, and World War II. Materials range in date from 1660-1975 (bulk 1898-1975).
Collection consists of computer files comprising oral histories conducted by students with Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transexual, or Queer (LGBTQ) Duke alumni. The oral histories document the individuals' experiences as members of the LGBTQ community before, during, and after their time at Duke. The alumni attended Duke between the mid-1970s and 2000s and describe experiences at and around Duke and Durham, North Carolina from a variety of perspectives and time periods. The oral histories were collected as part of the Spring 2015 class LGBTQ History and Activism: Duke, Durham, and Beyond. Computer files include audio files (WAV and MP3), field notes and tape logs (DOC and DOCX), and the occasional supporting document file.
The Library Council is a faculty advisory committee for the Library. Minutes, agendas, membership lists, and related records of the Duke University Library Council with a card index for records from 1940-1979.
Daniel A. Livingstone is the James B. Duke Professor Emeritus of Biology at Duke University, with longstanding research interests in biology, limnology, paleolimnology, zoology, and other subjects. The Daniel A. Livingstone papers include the extensive correspondence of Dr. Livingstone from the 1980s to 2001 as well as other materials related to his research and teaching at Duke University.
Gloria Bowen McCoy attended Duke University from 1944-1946. The collection includes a scrapbook, class notes, photographs, and memorabilia of her time at Duke.
Angus McDougall taught sculpture in Durham, N.C. and made numerous sculptural renderings of Duke University professors, students, and affiliates, as well as other major figures including Helen Keller and Frederick Douglas. His scrapbook contains photographs of his sculptures and his human subjects, family photos, clippings, a book jacket and correspondence.
Me Too Monologues is a testimonial theatre production featuring monologues about race, ethnicity, culture, gender, sexuality, and identity markers. Records include scripts, publicity, and production materials.
The Middlesworth Awards have been established to encourage and recognize excellence of research, analysis, and writing by Duke University students in the use of primary sources and rare materials held by the David M. Rubenstein Rare Book & Manuscript Library of Duke University. This collection contains prize winning papers, information about the prize, nomination forms, correspondence and other records.
Christine Mimms served as secretary/executive assistant to six Duke Presidents, from President William Few to President Terry Sanford. The collection contains correspondence, clippings, photographs and other materials. The material ranges in date from 1946-1986.
The Society of 9019, organized in February 1890 under the leadership of John Spencer Bassett, was an honorary scholarship fraternity. The society began at Trinity College and continued on at Duke University. Acceptance into the 9019 was based, in part, on an academic average of 90 or above. It was also conditioned upon a scholastic average of 2.25 quality points, making it similar to the male only Phi Beta Kappa society. The 9019 is credited with establishing the South Atlantic Quarterly, supporting scholarly activities among North Carolina high schools, and establishing student-faculty forums on a variety of timely subjects. The group disbanded in the early 1940s. The 9019 records contain ritual and member lists, program and contest advertisements, ceremonial robes, founding documents, letters, photographs, memorabilia and other papers related to this honor society. The dates of the materials range from 1892-1944.
Contains the records of the Rho Circle chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa, established at Duke University in 1926. Types of materials include bylaws, certificates of membership, correspondence, financial records, history, manuals, membership lists, minutes, newsletters, reports, programs, and photographs. Major topics include governance of a leadership fraternity, member selection, honor societies at Duke University, Duke-Navy relations during World War II, leadership, and Omicron Delta Kappa. Materials are present from 1926 to 1971, however the bulk of materials are from 1926 to 1963.
The Duke University Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life serves as a liaison between the university administration and student Greek, fraternity, sorority, and selective living groups. Records contain printed materials; publications; meeting minutes; annual reports; housing reviews; residential hall constitutions and officer lists; Panhellenic alcohol surveys; correspondence; judicial files and letters; and composite photographs related to the administration of Duke University fraternity and sorority programs.
The Operations and Maintenance Department (and the organizations and individuals who preceded the establishment of the department) was responsible for construction and upkeep of Duke University Buildings. The Operations and Maintenance Department Records include correspondence, plans, architectural drawings, blueprints, financial records, contracts, desk diaries, keys, and other materials related to Duke buildings. Prominent individuals represented in the collection include Frank Clyde Brown, S.W. Myatt, and Horace Trumbauer. Major subjects include the building and administration of Duke University, the planning of buildings and grounds on the Duke Campus, and the establishment of the Duke Construction Company to oversee construction on campus. English.
Robert Osborn was a Professor of Religion at Duke University. His collection includes clippings, correspondence and trial-related documents relating to a civil rights protest in Chapel Hill in January 1964.
The President's Advisory Committee on Resources was established by President H. Keith H. Brodie in the summer of 1989 following a recommendation of the Academic Council's Task Force on University Governance. Its predecessor was the University Committee on Resources (1988-1989). PACOR was a broad-based committee, chaired by a faculty member, which advised the President on the allocation of the University's financial, human and physical resources. Material includes minutes, reports, handouts, correspondence, memoranda, spiral-bound publications, diskettes, microcassettes and standard cassettes. Materials range in date from 1988-1995.
Harold T. Parker taught history at Duke University from 1939-1977; he specialized in modern European history, European intellectual history and 19th century Europe. This collection contains material concerning Parker's experiences as a faculty member at Duke University, a soldier in World War II and as an author. The papers include correspondence, including v-mail, along with diaries, volumes, memoranda, reports, speeches, articles, photographs, essays, book drafts and other records.
The Duke Parliamentarians were a student group dedicated to the study and practice of parliamentary law. The collection includes minutes, reports, bylaws, publications, and correspondence by the Duke Parliamentarians from 1990-1996.
Virginia Parrot was a 1962 graduate of the Woman's College and a member of Debate Council and the PreMed Society. Collection contains a disassembled scrapbook and assorted loose memorabilia reflecting student life at the Woman's College in the late 1950s and early 1960s.
Ransom Patrick was a painter, sculptor and professor of Aesthetics and Art at Duke from the 1940s through the 1960s. His collection includes course materials, photographs of artworks, essays, correspondence and news clippings. Materials range in date from the 1940s-1960s.
Addison "Add" Penfield was born in Meriden, Connecticut in 1918. He came to Duke University in Durham, North Carolina in 1936. During his four years as an undergraduate he became deeply involved with sports radio broadcasting on-campus, as the play-by-play announcer for Duke Football, and of-campus he worked with numerous other radio stations throughout North Carolina. The collection contains a typed manuscript, 553 pages, concerning Penfield's career as a sports broadcaster and writer, and as a member of the Duke staff.
Phi Alpha Delta Law Fraternity, International is a professional law fraternity advancing integrity, compassion and courage through service to the student, the school, the profession and the community. This collection includes minutes, correspondence, directories, workshop materials, constitution and by-laws, questionnaires and other material.
The University Archives Photograph Collection was compiled by University Archives staff from a variety of sources for use in research and teaching. The University Archives Photograph Collection consists of approx. 51000 photographic prints, negatives, slides, illustrations, and a few daguerreotypes. The majority of the collection was generated by Duke University Photography, student publications, and university publications. Subjects include Duke University administrators, faculty, staff, students, alumni, and visitors; Duke University athletics, academic programs, events, student life, reunions, commencements, and other activities; and scenes of Duke University's West and East campuses, the Trinity College campuses (Durham, N.C. and Randolph County, N.C.), campus facilities, campus architecture, Durham, Randolph County, and other related buildings and locations. Also included are some photographs separated from other University Archives collections.
The Physical Planning Department was responsible for arranging the construction and renovation of buildings and spaces on the Duke University campus. The collection primarily contains contracts, insurance bonds, and some related correspondence between Duke officials and construction companies and architects who built or renovated campus buildings. One general file consists of status reports on multiple campus building projects in the 1970s, and an estimate and plans for a proposed East Campus Recreation Center written by James A. Ward, University Architect and Director of Physical Planning.
In 1924, Trinity College was renamed Duke University and major construction on the university began and lasted until 1932. Since then, Duke University's campuses have undergone expansions and renovations that have led to several changes to the campus. The Pictorial Works Reference Collection contains files of printed materials that depict the Trinity College and Duke University campuses. This collection was compiled from various sources by the University Archives for reference and research.
Pratt joined the psychology department at Duke in 1937 as an instructor and a member of the staff of parapsychology where he served for nearly 30 years. Contains two drafts of a manuscript entitled, The Benign Revolution: An Insider's View of Parapsychology. This was published by Doubleday in 1964 under the title Parapsychology: An insider's view of ESP.
Terry Sanford was a politician and President of Duke University from 1970 to 1985. He was Governor of North Carolina from 1961-1965, a United States Senator from 1986-1992, and campaigned for the Democratic Party nomination for President in 1972 and 1976. The Records and Papers of Terry Sanford include administrative records, personal papers, manuscripts, photographs, sound and video records, and other materials gathered by Terry Sanford during his careers as a politician and the President and President Emeritus of Duke University.
Richard Arthur Preston (b. 1910), a leading British Commonwealth scholar, was appointed the William K. Boyd Professor of History at Duke University in 1965. Major subjects of the collection include Canadian history, especially military history; the Department of History; and the Canadian Studies program at Duke. Materials include correspondence, reports, course syllabi, printed matter, manuscripts, clippings, photographs, and other papers. English.
Brantley York was an educator, author, and Methodist clergyman in North Carolina. He organized Union Institute Academy at Brown's Schoolhouse in Randolph Co., N.C. in 1839, which would evolve into Normal College, Trinity College, and later Duke University. York also wrote an English grammar, as well as several other instructional textbooks. The Brantley York Records and Papers contain correspondence, a grade book, certificates, manuscripts, and published works. Modern materials were added to the collection; these include York family genealogical information, as well as clippings about York and his activities. Major subjects include the early history of Union Institute, Normal College, Trinity College and Duke University; education in North Carolina in the 19th century; and the Methodist Episcopal Church, South. English.
Although the exact provenance of the property plats is unknown, it is indicated on the reverse side of some plats that the surveys were used by A. C. Lee, Chief Engineer of the Duke Construction Company and the plats may have been created by the Atlantic Realty Company. This collection includes approximately 100 survey plats of Duke University properties prior to the construction on East Campus and West Campus from the years 1925-1926. Also included are plats representing the Duke Homestead from 1932 that were possibly drawn by V.A. Stewman.
The Rainbow Triangle Oral History Project was originally conceived in 1996 as a way to document the lives of LGBT (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender) people in the Triangle region in particular and central North Carolina in general. Ian Lekus became the Project Coordinator in 1996 and worked with a varying group of volunteers to acquire resources, conduct interviews, and ensure the preservation and access of the oral histories collected. More than 60 interviews were conducted between 1999 and 2004. The Rainbow Triangle Oral History Collection includes original oral history recordings, transcripts, biographical information on narrators, newsclippings, correspondence, and research materials.
The Duke University Religious Council was formed in 1956 to coordinate interdenominational religious life and activity on the university campus and replaced the Student Religious Council, formed in 1937. Types of material include correspondence, minutes, annual reports, financial papers, membership rosters, and the Council’s founding documents. Major subjects include committees organized by the Council; special services, programs, and events; national Christian organizations; and documents relating to the council’s community outreach. The material range in date from 1938-1971.
The Residential Life Reference Collection contains files of reports, clippings, handbooks, and other materials concerning residential life at the University. This collection was compiled from a variety of sources by the University Archives for use in reference and research.
The Committee was formed in 1968 to raise funds for a portrait of then President Richard M. Nixon to hang in the Law School. The collection contains correspondence, financial records, and material about Joseph Wallace King, the artist commissioned to paint the portrait. The material range in date from 1968-1974.
The University Committee on ROTC was formed in 1970 to formulate recommendations on the future of ROTC at Duke University. The collection includes correspondence, minutes, testimony, reports, printed materials, reports from other institutions, student course evaluations and questionnaires, notes, and other materials. Major subjects include the role of the Naval and Air Force ROTCs on Duke's campus, the Vietnam War, the draft, and intellectual freedom on university campuses. English.
The South Africa Policy Implementation Committee was authorized by resolution of the Board of Trustees in 1986 to implement the policies recommended by the Committee on Social Implications of Duke Stock, formed in 1985. Collection contains records relating to the operations and activities of the South Africa Policy Implementation Committee and includes correspondence, memoranda, reports, minutes, printed material, and clippings concerning apartheid and Duke University's decision to divest.
Seashore Summer School, Inc. was a school for teachers affiliated with Trinity College and Duke University and located at Oriental, North Carolina. The records contain files of correspondence, financial records, reports, and printed materials documenting the school's operations.
Contains the records of the Southeastern Institute of Medieval and Renaissance Studies, a cooperative institute established in 1963 under the auspices of the Duke University-University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Cooperative Program in the Humanities. Also contains materials relating to the Duke University Center for Medieval and Renaissance Studies. Types of materials include correspondence, grant proposals, budgets, invitations, rosters, announcements, minutes, local publications, and some conference papers. Major subjects include the Duke University Cooperative Program in the Humanities, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill faculty, Duke University faculty, the Southeastern Institute of Medieval and Renaissance Studies, the Southeastern Renaissance Conference, university cooperation in North Carolina, renaissance study and teaching, and humanities study and teaching. Materials range in date from 1965 to 1981. English.
Contains the records of SHARE (Student Housing for Academic and Residential Experimentation), a co-educational residential living group at Duke University. Types of materials include correspondence, minutes, reports, evaluations, financial materials, applications, plaques, a videotape, short writings, newsletters, literary magazines, notes, photographs, and clippings. Major subjects include residence and education, Duke University, Epworth Inn, Wilson House, Faculty Apartments, experimental living, Program II, college freshmen, and faculty advisor John M. Clum. Materials range in date from 1968 to ongoing. English.
John D. Shaw was a 1932 graduate of Duke University where he played three seasons of varsity basketball. Scrapbook contains clipping and other assorted memorabilia documenting Duke basketball with the inclusive dates 1930-1932.
Mel Shimm was a professor of law and Associate Dean at the Duke Law School. The Mel Shimm papers include materials from Mel Shimm's time as a faculty member at Duke Law School. Included are class materials such as exams and readings, correspondence, committee materials, and other materials.
In 1947, Dr. Markman began teaching at Duke University as Associate Professor of Art History and Archaeology and was appointed to full professor in 1965. He retired in 1981 and is Professor Emeritus of Art History and Archaeology in 1981. The collection includes four 3-ring binders kept by Professor Markman that include his lecture notes and material for two of his courses: Latin American Art [Colonial Period] and Pre-Columbian Art and Archaeology [Mesoamerica]. There is also a folder that contains correspondence. The collection ranges in date from 1952-1986.
The Duke chapter of Sigma Xi, an honorary society recognizing scientific research, was formed in 1932. Types of materials included in this collection are: pamphlets, minutes, financial records, membership nominations, rosters, and correspondence. Major subjects include research in science and medicine, honor society membership, Duke University scholarship, and Sigma Xi. Materials range in date from 1930-1995.
Edward Christian Simmons was an economics professor at Duke University. His collection includes correspondence with author Charles Holt Carroll, Carroll's manuscript for Organization of Debt into Currency and correspondence from John Maynard Keynes.
Robert Smith (1904-1969) was the James B. Duke Professor of Economics at Duke University. This collection primarily documents his professional life through his correspondence and writings. It forms part of the Economists' Papers Archive.
The Dept. of Sociology at Duke was established in 1930 by Charles Abram Ellwood (1873-1946) and remains an active department to this day offering degrees to both undergraduates and graduate students. This collection contains student research papers, course syllabi, memoranda, newspaper clippings, documentation from the Sociology Majors Union, as well as other various departmental documents.
Philip Stewart is a professor emeritus of Romance Studies at Duke University. Stewart served on the Subcommittee on Library Relations, which was convened by Duke's Academic Council in September 1981 as part of a faculty initiative to study the potential impact of locating the Richard Nixon Presidential Library on the university campus. Materials in this collection primarily relate to the research of the Library Subcommittee, and include correspondence from Duke President Terry Sanford, who initiated the Nixon Library proposal in August 1981; correspondence from Duke faculty and trustees; press clippings; Academic Council meeting minutes; and the Library Subcommittee's report to the Academic Council. The collection also contains research and reports from the Academic Council's Subcommittee on Governance, another group formed in the wake of the Nixon Library proposal.
The mission of the Division of Student Affairs is to promote and enrich students' education through teaching, mentoring, advising, and counseling by way of on-going direct contact with students in their everyday lives. The division was created in the summer of 1979 and was placed in under the supervision of William J. Griffiths, Vice President for Student Affairs. This collection contains reports, department newsletters, and materials related to the Center for Sexual and Gender Diversity, student activities, student health, and career planning.
Students for Choice is a student organization dedicated to educating the Duke community about the status of reproductive rights nationally and locally and about available related resources, and to working to protect and uphold the freedom of choice. The Students for Choice Records contains flyers and other event materials, organizational notes, educational literature, and clippings.
The Student Photograph Album is a scrapbook of 100 black and white photographs, by an unidentified photographer, of students and scenes at Duke University and in North Carolina as well as images of Virginia, Niagara Falls, and unidentified locations. Many images have captions and identifying information and appear to all date between 1934-1936.
The Trinity College (Durham, N.C.) Athletic Association was responsible for organizing athletic events, such as baseball and basketball games. The collection includes correspondence and contracts and ranges in date from 1912-1937.
Collection contains video recordings of performing arts events at Duke from 1987-2001. The performances are largely Hoof'n'Horn but also include performances from the Dept. of Theater Studies, namely Duke Players.
The Town and Gown Reference Collection contains files of clippings, reports, publications, flyers, and other material concerning the University's relations with the city and county of Durham and the Research Triangle region. This collection was compiled from a variety of sources by the University Archives for use in reference and research.
Richard Lovejoy Tuthill was Professor of Economic Geography and University Registrar at Duke University. This collection contains correspondence, reference material, and notes on the local, state, and national organizations.
The Duke University Undergraduate Faculty Council of Arts and Sciences (UFCAS), established in 1971, guided undergraduate education in arts and sciences, adopted academic regulations and admissions policies, advised on financial aid and recognized academic achievement. It succeeded the Undergraduate Faculty Council after the body no longer included representatives from the engineering and nursing schools. In 1991, UFCAS voted to disband and reorganize as the Arts and Sciences Council. Records include bylaws, minutes, correspondence, memoranda, rosters, reports, and other records of the Undergraduate Faculty Council of Arts and Sciences at Duke University. Most of the records were created by the UFCAS Committees, which included: Curriculum, Courses of Instruction, Honors, Study Abroad, Program II, Academic Standards, Advising, Undergraduate Admissions and Financial Aid, Residential Life, Freshman Year, Advanced Placement, Athletics and Recreation, Health Science Education, and Non-western Studies. Materials range in date from 1968 to 1991. English.
Formed in 1952, the Undergraduate Faculty Council (UFC) was responsible for the governance of undergraduate education at Duke University. The Undergraduate Faculty Council of Arts and Sciences succeeded the UFC in October 1971, when undergraduate education in engineering and nursing formed separate governing bodies. Collection includes minutes, memoranda, correspondence, questionnaires, reports of standing and ad hoc committees, and other papers pertaining to faculty oversight of undergraduate education. The bulk of the material consists of the records of the Subcommittee on Curriculum, a part of the Committee on Undergraduate Instruction. Other committees include Honors, Program II, the Faculty Advisory System, Residential Life, Study Abroad, Undergraduate Admissions, Financial Aid, and Academic Standards. One of the major accomplishments of the UFC was a report called "Varieties of Learning Experience," or the Krueger Report (1968), which led to major changes in the undergraduate course of study known as the "new curriculum." English.
The Commission on University Governance at Duke University was created in April 1969 by Chancellor pro tem Barnes Woodhall. The group was charged with studying changes in university organization nationwide to create a model for administration at Duke. The group also focused on increasing student participation in university governance. The records include minutes, memoranda, correspondence, and reports produced by the Commission on University Governance, as well as reports, clippings, and other printed matter gathered by the Commission for reference purposes. The Commission published its findings and recommendations in three "Interim Reports," concerning the Board of Trustees, the Central Administration, and Departmental Governance. English.
The University Reports Reference Collection contains major reports concerning accreditation, university administration and governance, strategic planning, the curriculum, facilities, and student life. This collection was compiled from a variety of sources by the University Archives for use in reference and research.
Aleksandar Sedmak Vesić was a prominent civil engineer and Duke engineering professor. He is especially known for his work on soil properties and interaction with construction materials, as well as the use of explosives in excavation projects.
Clement Vollmer joined the German Languages and Literature Department at Duke University in 1926, where he remained until his retirement in 1956. In 1918, he published The American Novel in Germany. Professor Vollmer served as chair of the department during the 1950s, as president of the South Atlantic Modern Language Association, and was a member of numerous academic societies. Includes correspondence, recommendations, faculty meeting minutes, German Department memoranda, grade books and department enrollment statistics. Also includes date books, address books and diaries kept by Maude Hugo Vollmer (Mrs. Clement Vollmer). Inclusive years are 1898-1983.
Contains memoranda, correspondence, budgets, reports, agreements, financial information, organizational records and other printed matter from the Office of the Vice President for Business and Finance. Records concern Duke University, its various academic departments, organizations, and benefactors, including the Medical Center. These records were created by Vice President for Business and Finance Gerhard Henricksen (1962-1966) and his successor Charles B. Huestis (1966-1985), and provide a detailed account of the university's financial status. Major topics include the university's relationship with the Duke Endowment and Local Unions 77 and 465, Medical Center construction;, university properties, physical plant, and facilities renovations, national professional organizations, several university committees, the Board of Trustees, the Duke University Athletic Association, WDBS campus radio station, the Duke Vigil, Duke University Marine Lab, Huestis' personal interests and affiliations, and the departments of the Business and Finance Division (including Housing, Data Processing and the Computation Center, Accounting, Dining Halls, Personnel, Materials Support, Safety and Traffic, TelCom, and Utilities), and the University Architect. Major correspondents include University Architect, University Council, Business Manager, Corporate and University Controllers, Terry Sanford, William G. Anlyan, A. Kenneth Pye, Richard L. Jackson, J. Peyton Fuller, John Adcock. English.
Eula Wake was a 1929 graduate of the Woman's College of Duke University. Collection contains photographic prints taken at Class of 1929 reunions in 1984, 1986-87, and 1989.
Calvin Ward was a Zoology professor at Duke University. The collection contains correspondence and memoranda relating to faculty groups, the Biology, Forestry and Genetics programs and University-wide issues.
Warwick House was home to undergraduate male students from around 1968 to 1978. Contains the records of Warwick House, a non-selective residence hall for undergraduate men at Duke University. Types of material included are financial summaries, notes, and a small amount of correspondence. Major subjects include student life at Duke University, living groups, and male students. Materials date from 1968 to 1978.
Richard L. Watson, Jr. served as Professor of History at Duke University (1939-1984), Chair of the Department of History (1960-1967), Chair of the Academic Council (1964-1966, 1975-1977), and associate editor of the South Atlantic Quarterly (1974-1987). Papers include correspondence, notes, committee minutes and reports, course evaluations, research files, and manuscript drafts of chapters, and involve Watson's work with the Army Air Force Historical Office, the History Department, Duke University, professional organizations, research and writings in American history and historiography, and personal materials. English.
The University Archives Web Archives Collection was compiled by University Archives staff beginning in 2010. The majority of the collection are Duke University-affiliated sites, either built on domains owned by the University or on external platforms by affiliated offices, departments, or organizations. Website snapshots include those of administrative offices, academic departments, athletic teams, public relations offices, publications, and student organizations. Also included are some websites related to individual faculty, controversies involving Duke community members, and web content related to student activism.
Morris Weisfeld was a professor in the Mathematics Department at Duke University. His collection contains three booklets of teaching materials.
Joseph Cable Wetherby served as Associate Professor of English at Duke University from 1947-1976. The papers consist of correspondence, printed matter, speeches, clippings, minutes, memoranda, teaching aids and other teaching materials, student papers, photographs, research notes, and writings. Major subjects include the teaching of English to international students at Duke, broadcasting and the development of the WDBS radio station at Duke University, and the Duke University Debate Team, which Wetherby coached for over 20 years. English.
Nine interviews with alumnae of the Duke University Woman's College conducted by Carolyn Murray Happer from 2003 to 2004. Also includes one recording of alumnae reminisces from the 75th anniversary celebration of the Woman's College Library in 2006. Interviewees discuss their experiences and perceptions from their years at Duke University during the period of the co-ordinate college which existed from 1930 to 1972. Subjects interviewed include several class leaders, a member of the Duke family, and others who have had long established ties to the school after graduation. Also includes one recording of alumnae reminisces from the 75th anniversary celebration of the Woman's College Library in 2006.
Contains correspondence, addresses, reports, memoranda, clippings and printed material documenting Woodhall's role in the governance of the University. Topics include the student unrest of the period, such as the Allen Building takeover and Vietnam War protests, unionization of the Medical Center, the management of University-owned housing, as well as Duke Forest.
Professor of anthropology, sociology, and social work, who founded StoriesWork, a non-profit organization in Durham, N.C. that advocates Therapeutic Storytelling, or the use of folk story analysis for empowering abused women. Collection consists of several separate accessions and includes Ucko's travel diaries; teaching and course materials; transcripts of Ucko's publications, including her book, Endangered Spouses; correspondence; Russian genealogy; materials from the Henry Zvi Ucko Memorial Exhibit, "What We Brought with Us," which featured personal items taken by German Jews who fled Nazi Germany in the 1930s; and other materials from Ucko's position at the Museum of the Jewish Family in the late 1990s. Acquired as part of the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture.
In 1949 the United Nations general assembly asked secretary general to create a committee to investigate the status of slavery and the slave trade. The committee, which was active in 1950-1951, was a joint effort of the Economic and Social Council and the International Labour Organization. The collection contains research files, clippings, minutes, notes, and other materials related to the work of the United Nations Ad Hoc Committee on Slavery.
Collection comprises a photograph album maintained by an unidentified wealthy, possibly British, family; handwritten captions appear in several different hands. The 159 photographs either document family travel as souvenirs, or document both their travel and photograph collecting, because many of the photographs are albumen prints by famous late-19th-century photographers, including Bonfils, Zangaki, Samuel Bourne, Francis Frith, and others not identified except by the presence of their negative numbers and captions on the photograph. From these photographers there are images of Israel; Syria; Palestine; Jerusalem; Athens, Greece; and Agra, India, along with photographs of statues and other artifacts recovered in archaeological digs. Other photographs in the album were probably taken by family members, first in Venice, then in various places, including Scotland, England, and Jamaica. Among these photographs are albumen and cyanotype prints. Photographs in the album date between 1850 and 1897, and range in size from 1.5 x 2-inches to 8.5 x 11.5 inches. 
Collection comprises 42 photographs taken by James Van Der Zee, known for his portraits and documentation of daily life in Harlem, N.Y., especially during the Harlem Renaissance (1920s-1930s). There are views of parades, athletic teams, a Baptist group, a first-grade Harlem classroom, and the interior of Van Der Zee's studio, as well as fictionalized settings and poses conveying hopes, dreams, and humorous situations. Subjects include an elegant couple in raccoon coats, a soldier, a female impersonator, a funerary portrait of a man in an open casket, Black Hebrews, Black Cross nurses, Marcus Garvey in regalia during a parade, entrepreneurs Madam C.J. Walker and her daughter A'Lelia, boxer Jack Johnson, and entertainer Bill "Bojangles" Robinson. Included is a self-portrait of the photographer playing a violin, circa 1930. An early portrait of Van Der Zee's first wife and daughter was taken around 1908, in Lenox, Massachusetts, his birthplace. Average print size is roughly 10 3/4 x 12 inches. Almost all are exhibit prints created mostly in the 1980s from original negatives. Acquired as part of the John Hope Franklin Research Center for African and African American History and Culture at Duke University.
The bulk of this collection consists of receipts for dry goods, and farming equipment, including a S.C. bill for taxes on horses and slaves. There are also a few family letters, and two wills signed by Jacob Van Lear in 1820 and 1821.
Collection comprises a photograph album with 38 albumen photographs (6 x 4.25 inches) pasted on sheets of thick cardboard. The album's binding features decorated wood with a Jerusalem cross. The back of the binding is marked "Jerusalem" in English and Hebrew. Photographs are numbered and feature subtitles in English and French. Photographic subjects in Jerusalem include: exterior and interior of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre and several stations of the cross, the Wailing Wall, Via Dolorosa, various gates of Jerusalem, Mosque of Omar, Tomb of the Kings, Garden of Gethsemane, and Mount of Olives. Among the images of Palestine are: Jaffa, Tomb of Rachel, Bethlehem, Hebron, Tomb of Lazarus, Jericho, Dead Sea, the River Jordan, and the Tower of David and Hippicus. There is also a photograph of two women at a mill. All but two of the photographs are signed with the American Colony mark.
Ken Wainio (1952-2006) was an American surrealist author and poet based in San Francisco, California. Collection includes manuscripts and drafts of many of Wainio's poems and writings, including his novel, Starfuck. Also includes his journals and diaries, published poetry and printed materials, some correspondence, snapshots, and other biographical information.
Miscellaneous posters collected by Westchester County, New York precinct. Posters of wanted criminals collected by an unknown police detective in Westchester County, New York. Posters are from the United States and Canada. Collection includes some well-known criminals such as Lester Gillis, alias Baby Face Nelson; Mary Evelyn Frechette, alias Mrs. John Dillinger; Arthur “Doc” Barker; mobster Roger Touhy; and bank robber Frank Nash. Radicals from 1970s include Weather Underground member Cathlyn Platt Wilkerson, Symbionese Liberation Army member Kathleen Soliah; and Black Liberation Army fugitives JoAnne Chesimard (Assata Shakur) and brother Mutulu Shakur.
Henry Washington was born 1923 March 7 to parents Issac R. Washington and Irene Surrey Washington. He was a lifelong resident of Roxbury, Massachusetts, and died there on October 24, 1996. Collection comprises an African-American family photograph album maintained by Henry Washington between approximately 1940-1982. The album features 261 prints, including 204 black-and-white and 57 color prints, ranging in size from 1x1 inches to 8x10 inches. The photographs present the Washington family and its social networks in detail, with a focus on Boston's Roxbury neighborhood.
Zuriel Waterman was a physician from Cranston, Rhode Island and served as a surgeon aboard several American privateers during the Revolutionary War. He relocated to Edenton, North Carolina after the war. Commonplace book, dated circa 1769-1774, appears to have been created by Zuriel Waterman and Sarah Dean. The name Sarah Dean appears on the inside cover, but many later entries written in a different hand are attributed to Zuriel Waterman. The book contains a number of excerpts, verse, and other writings including: "A Chronological Table of Epithets of the Kings of England," "Versus on Mr. George Whitefield," "A Short and True Description of North Carolina and its Inhabitants," and "Care for bite of a mad dog." Also included is a count of inhabitants in the colony of Rhode Island by locale and race, a sketch of the city of Troy, a petition of the Continental Congress to the King of England, and various religious and political writings.
Born in Caroleen, North Carolina in 1902, studio photographer Herbert Lee Waters supplemented his income from 1936 to 1942 by traveling across North Carolina and parts of Virginia, Tennessee, and South Carolina to film the people of small communities. He collaborated with local movie theaters to screen his films, which he called Movies of Local People. It is estimated that Waters produced films across 118 communities, visiting some of them multiple times. The H. Lee Waters Film Collection dates from 1936 to 2005 and is comprised primarily of 16mm black-and-white and color reversal original motion picture films created by Waters during the filming of the Movies of Local People series. The collection, arranged alphabetically by town name, also includes various preservation and access elements created over the years from the original footage: 16mm internegatives, 16mm screening prints, 3/4-inch Umatic videotape, Betacam SP videotape, Digital Betacam videotape, VHS videotape, DVD discs, and high resolution digital files including 2K preservation video copies. The collection contains a small number of papers and physical objects related to Waters' film making, including: a photocopy of two log books (encompassed in one volume) maintained by Waters to record financial and business information during the filming of Movies of Local People; photocopied and original advertisements for screenings of Waters' films; photocopies of Waters' notes, receipts, and correspondence concerning film sales; related ephemera; copy of a 2005 master's thesis written on the films of H. Lee Waters; home movies made by Waters from the 1930s to the 1950s; and oral histories with Mary Waters Spaulding and Tom Waters, the children of H. Lee Waters.
The Wells Rich Greene, Inc. (WRG) advertising agency was founded in 1966 by Mary Wells, Richard Rich, and Stewart Greene, who were associates at Jack Tinker and Partners agency. Until its demise in 1998, WRG was ranked as one of the top 15 advertising agencies in the United States. The Wells Rich Greene, Inc. (WRG) Records contain primarily print advertisements and broadcast commercials and advertising spots for clients of WRG. Materials span 1966-1998 and include magazine and newspaper advertisements, proof sheets, audiocassettes, videocassettes, analog and digital audio tape. Corporate documentation includes press releases, clipping files, and staff photographs and slides. Clients represented in the collection include: American Motors; Bristol-Myers (Boost, Clairol, Herbal Essence, Vagistat); Cadbury (Canada Dry, Schweppes); Continental Airlines; Ford; IBM; ITT (Technology Institute, Sheraton); Liberty Mutual; MCI; Miles Laboratories (Alka-Seltzer); New York Department of Commerce; Pan Am; Philip Morris (Benson & Hedges, Player, Dunhill); Procter & Gamble (Gain, Oil of Olay, Pringles, Folder's, Sure); Ralston Purina (Chex, Dog Chow, Tender Vittles); Seagram; TWA; and Warnaco (Warner's lingerie). Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Prominent family from Asheville, NC. Includes papers of several different members of the family including correspondence, clippings, speeches, and writings of Virginia Westall in her capacity as aide to General R. L. Eichelberger; papers from family's various civic capacities; WWI and WWII correspondence; military records; family photographs and clippings; other personal correspondence including some related to cousin Thomas Wolfe; photographs of Asheville; Westall genealogy; some poetry, a journal, other writings; business papers including those concerning violin making and some from a family member's construction business in Asheville.
Collection contains a 4-page letter (7 March 1873) Whipple wrote to Jeremiah Hacker, a Maine reformer, abolition advocate, journalist, and publisher of "The Pleasure Boat." Whipple mentions an article Hacker wrote for "The Voice of Peace," as well as his admiration for "The Pleasure Boat" and "N.P. Rogers' Newspaper Writings." He also discusses his difficulty printing "The Voice of Peace," and the increase in pacifism since the end of the Civil War, noting that abolitionists and industrialists Adin Ballou and E. D. Draper were constant in their support of peace, while members of the utopian Hopedale Community were "untrue to the professions of years." Whipple included a printed photograph with his letter.
Carl and Enid Whirley were Southern Baptist missionaries in Nigeria from 1947 to 1980. The Whirley Family Papers includes material from throughout their lives, beginning with Carl's studies at Howard College, now Samford University, in the 1940s and ending with his and Enid's retirement into the 1990s. Their papers include correspondence, documents and photographs from the Whirleys' time in multiple regions of Nigeria, as well as Carl's sermon notes and teaching materials. Also includes printed materials from their time as missionaries, including Nigerian newspapers and clippings, church bulletins, and other articles, books, serials, pamphlets, and newsletters. 
Occupational therapist and medical illustrator active in Utah and North Carolina. The Dorothy Whitlock Papers span the dates 1948-1989 and derive from Whitlock's work as an occupational therapist and medical illustrator. The collection contains visual materials which include image files and loose images of medical illustrations in a variety of media, including but not limited to watercolor, graphite pencil, brushed graphite paint, pen and ink drawings, photographs of etchings, and photographs. The images include but are not limited to portrayals of various medical procedures, conditions, techniques, and tools. The collection also contains papers related to Whitlock's time as an occupational therapist at the Veterans' Administration Hospital in Oteen, North Carolina, and papers related to her interest in and work on tuberculosis. Acquired as part of the History of Medicine Collections at Duke University.
Dr. Susan Wicklund is a former abortion provider from Wisconsin. The papers chiefly document her professional career, centering on her work in the Midwest, where she operated abortion clinics in Minnesota, Montana, North Dakota, and Wisconsin from the 1990s to 2013. Materials include many items of correspondence from patients, supporters, and opponents; files on national and local abortion rights and women's movement groups; articles and newspaper clippings; conference papers; materials related to anti-abortion groups; legal documents, including court case records; a recording of her 1992 "60 Minutes" television interview, and drafts of her book, This Common Secret: My Journey as an Abortion Doctor (2007). A few clinic documents also exist in the form of leasing records, sample charts, manuals, and anonymized guestbooks. Acquired as part of the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture.
Confederate soldier, member of the 55th North Carolina Infantry Regiment, Co. K; and farmer, from Granville County, N.C. The papers of James King Wilkerson and his family date from 1820 to 1929, and consist of Civil War correspondence, a number of almanacs used as diaries, copybooks, and a few other miscellaneous papers, including a genealogical sketch. There is correspondence by Lillie Wilkerson and Luther Wilkerson, James' children, discussing social life and customs, illnesses and hospitals, employment, and personal matters; and several letters from a soldier in France during World War I. There are also two early issues of the Berea, N.C. Gazette, one from 1876, with comments on the Hayes-Tilden election, and one from shortly thereafter. The Civil War letters, written by James Wilkerson to his family, contain references to the C.S.S. Virginia, detailed descriptions of marches, comments on crop conditions as he moved from place to place, his Civil War service around Petersburg, Virginia, late in the war, and his stay in the General Hospital at Greensboro, N.C. in 1865.
U.S. naval officer and explorer, of Washington, D.C. Family correspondence, chiefly relating to naval cruises of Wilkes and his son, John Wilkes; the U.S. Exploring Expedition, 1838-1842, to Antarctica, the Pacific Islands, and the Northwest Coast of the U.S., including preliminary planning, the voyage itself with detailed descriptions of places visited, and publishing the results; gold mining and milling in North Carolina; the Civil War; and Wilkes family business ventures in North Carolina; together with legal and financial papers, writings, printed material, clippings, and other papers. Includes correspondence, 1848-1849, with James Renwick (1792-1863) and others.
Helen Maria Williams was a British novelist, poet, and translator of French-language works. Collection comprises four letters written by Helen Maria Williams, two to her nephew, Athanase Laurent Charles Coquerel, one to Mrs. Joel [Ruth] Barlow, and one to an unidentified recipient.
U.S. Geological Survey geologist. Collection consists mainly of letters Willis wrote to his wife but also includes letters to him and between other family members. They frequently wrote to one another in code; a key to the code is with the collection. His letters pertain to the Geological Survery as well as family, travels, the Appalachians and other prominent geologists such as Raphael Pumpelly. A few sketches are also included.
May be the author Eliza Wilson (Mrs. Robert Wilson) of Kirkdale, Liverpool, England. Entries describe the social life and travel of a British woman living in India with General Craigie, his wife, and daughters. They left England in November 1854, traveled by ship with stops in Egypt, and arrived in Madras in January 1855. The group lived in Madras but journeyed to other cities in southern India, including Bangalore, Mysore, and Vellore. There are references to the Sepoy Rebellion, 1856-1858, before Wilson departed India in 1860.
Enoch Cobb Wines was a prison reformer and served as corresponding secretary of the National Prison Association. Collection comprises a letter E. C. Wines wrote to G. F. Thayer (1848 January 24) regarding his thoughts on the superintendent of schools in Boston. Wines mentions Alexander Dallas Bache, who served as superintendent of schools in Philadelphia. Also includes two unrelated newspaper clippings regarding Wines' participation in prison reform congresses, with dates penciled in as 1871 and 1872.
Andrej Svorenčik and Harro Maas organized the "Witness Seminar on Experimental Economics" at the Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2010. This collection documents the planning and execution of the event, and the subsequent publication of corresponding book, The Making of Experimental Economics: Witness Seminar on the Emergence of a Field. It was acquired as part of the Economists' Papers Archive.
The Workers League for a Revolutionary Party was formed by George Spiro in 1938 as the Leninist League. In the mid-1940s the party became critical of Leninism and Marxism and changed its name to the Workers League for a Revolutionary Party. The Party was a splinter group of the Trotskyist party, the Revolutionary Workers League (RWL). Collection contains letters, memoranda, meeting minutes, and other documents relating to the activities of the Workers League for a Revolutionary Party.
Robert Wolf was a forester with the Bureau of Land Management, the U.S. Forest Service, the Bureau of the Budget, and the Office of Investigations for the Comptroller General. He is credited with drafting the National Forest Management Act of 1976. Collection includes transcripts of over 50 interviews for the Bob Wolf oral history project. Subjects include the Aztec Land and Cattle Company, 1945; below-cost timber sales and Forest Service management goals, 1980s; termination of the Klamath Reservation, 1950s; the 1976 payment in lieu of taxes bill, HR 9719; the Multiple Use Act of 1960; the National Wilderness Preservation Act; grazing fees and the 1961 Vale, Oregon, grazing dispute; the Youth Conservation Corps, 1950-1964; the Forest Road and Trail Act of 1964; the 1974 Resource Planning Act; the National Forest Management Act of 1976; the timber industry; log exports; Oregon's "Sweet Swap" of private and federal lands; public land law; construction of the Lolo Pass Road, 1957; the 1959 controversy over the Kern Plateau in the Sequoia National Forest; timber sales and the Quinalt Indian Reservation; the federal government bail-out of the timber industry, 1982-1988; the change in the Siskiyou National Forest Boundary, 1950s; national forests; the Trade Act of 1962 and US timber interests; public land management, 1950s-1980s; and the impact of the Nixon and Carter administrations on the Forest Service. Also includes a biographical sketch and an index to the transcripts.
Collection consists of a commercially produced set of 48 hand-colored glass lantern slides entitled "Woman: The World Over," published in 1901 by Riley Brothers in Bradford, England. The original printed booklet accompanying the set lists 53 slides in all, and contains detailed lecture-format captions. The women in the portraits represent nations around the world. Subjects include women of different classes; married women and women in courtship; there are women depicted in their homes, with children, and in roles which the lecture suggests are little more than slaves. Other slides show women working in agricultural, service, and industrial settings, and gambling and climbing mountains. There is one slide of the Women's Temple in Chigago, headquarters of the Women's Christian Temperance Union. Lecture notes refer to problematic social conditions for women, particularly regarding marriage, and changing social norms as the 20th century begins. One slide is black-and-white. All titles are original, as is the slide sequence. Acquired as part of the Lisa Unger Baskin Collection at Duke University.
The Women's Guild of Arts was founded in England in 1907 by textile designer and jeweller May Morris, and grew to about 60 members. The organization offered female artists an alternative to the Art Workers' Guild, the artists' association established in 1884 to encourage excellence in the fine and applied arts, and from which women were excluded until the 1960s. Collection comprises primarily 81 letters from 29 members of the Women's Guild of Arts between 1902 and 1949. There are 7 additional documents, including draft resolutions, certificates, lists, and notes.
Collection comprises a poster that promotes the organization's "aims to make knowledge about women's bodies and health available to women," and to "develop policy about women's health with women." Important issues illustrated include affordable health care, stopping the spread of AIDS, and a woman's right to choose contraception. There is also contact information.
Materials documenting the Women's Worship Circle activities including correspondence, invitations, programs, handouts, liturgies, member reflections, photographs, planning and meeting notes and agendas.
Woolworth's was a discount retail chain founded by Frank W. Woolworth in 1879 in Lancaster, Pa. now doing business as Foot Locker, Inc. Collection is comprised of a photograph album depicting shop window and department store floor displays featured at the Spring Convention of the Woolworth Chicago District. Displays feature a variety of goods including candies and confections, cosmetics, sewing supplies, publishing and printing, and women's clothing. Companies represented include American Colortype, Luxor, Maybelline, Merrill Publishing, National Candy, Regensteiner, Revlon (Cutex), Spool Cotton (Coats & Clark), Standard Oil, and Whitman Publishing. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Rev. William Young, was an itinerant Methodist preacher. Collection of 77 manuscript sermons (246 pages) that were written and used by the Reverend William Young, delivered at irregular intervals between December 1835 and January 1848.
Charles Laban Abernethy, Sr., was born in Burke County, North Carolina in 1872. Educated at UNC-Chapel Hill, he practiced law in Beaufort and New Bern, N.C., then was elected as a Democratic U.S. Congressman representing eastern N.C., serving from 1922 to 1935. He became known especially for his efforts to establish the Intracoastal Waterway in N.C. Charles Laban Abernethy, Jr., his son (1899-1968), was also a lawyer. In the early 20th century, the family resided in Beaufort, then moved to New Bern around 1913. The senior Abernethy suffered from mental illness late in life, and was committed to state institutions. His son became his legal guardian until the elder's death in 1955.
[Sources: Wikipedia, NCPedia, accessed May 2020]
The Abortion Care Network is a network of independent abortion providers, allies, and individuals which began operations in July 2008. It was founded through the merge of the National Coalition of Abortion Providers (now dissolved) and the Abortion Conversation Project, which still operates as ACN's sister organization. The majority of ACN members are independent clinic owners and staff.
1944-1946 U.S. Army Air Corps
1950 B.S., Economics, UCLA
1951 M.S., Economics, Columbia University
1951-1957 McCann-Erickson Agency: Manager of Market Research; Economist and Market Analyst
1952-1957 Ph.D. candidate, Economics, Columbia University
1957-1971 Grey Advertising: Director of Marketing and Research; Vice President and Director of Marketing Services; Executive Vice President
1957-1971 Independent Research Company: interviewer and coder
1961-1964 Instructor, Bernard Baruch Graduate School of Public and Business Administration
1967 Instructor, Advanced Advertising Institute at New York University Graduate School of Business
1971-1974 J. Walter Thompson Company: Executive Vice President and Director of Marketing Services and Corporate Planning
1974-1989 Canter, Achenbaum, Associates: Chairman of the Board
1987-1996 M/A/R/C Group: Outside Member of the Board
1989-1992 Backer Spielvogel Bates: Vice Chairman; Member of the Board
1993-1995 Achenbaum Associates: President
1995-2004 Achenbaum Bogda Associates: Chairman of the Board
2005-present Achenbaum Institute of Marketing: President and Chief Executive Officer
1948 Born.
1963-65 Studied Classics at Brandeis University.
1967 Received BA from University of California at San Diego (UCSD).
1968-1970 Studied at UCSD Department of Literature.
1971 Studied at New York University Classics Department.
1975 Published The Childlike Life of the Black Tarantula.
1975-1976 Creative Artists' Public Services Program New York State Grant For Fiction.
1978 Published Kathy Goes to Haiti.
1980 Published I Dreamt I Became A Nymphomaniac: Imagining.
1980 Published The Adult Life of Toulouse-Lautrec.
1980-1981 Instructor, The San Francisco Art Institute, Video and Performance Department.
1981 Pushcart Prize.
1982 Published Hello, I'm Erica Jong.
1983 Published Great Expectations.
1984 Published Algeria: A Series of Invocations Because Nothing Else Works.
1984 Published Blood and Guts in High School.
1986 Published Don Quixote.
1988 Published Empire of the Senseless.
1988 My Death, My Life, By Pier Paolo Pasolini published in Literal Madness.
1989 Published Young Lust; Kathy Goes to Haiti; The Adult Life of Toulouse Lautrec; Florida.
1990 Published The Seven Cardinal Virtues.
1990 Published In Memoriam to Identity.
1991 Published Hannibal Lecteur, My Father.
1991-1995 Adjunct Professor, San Francisco Art Institute.
1992 Published Portrait of an Eye: Three Novels.
1993 Published My Mother Demonology.
1994 Visiting Professor, UCSD.
1994 Visiting Professor, University of California at Santa Barbara.
1994 Visiting Professor, University of Idaho.
1996 Published Pussy, King of the Pirates.
1997 Died.
Joe Nash (1919-2005) was a self-taught dancer and prominent historian of African-American dance history. Growing up in New York City during the Harlem Renaissance, Nash was inspired by the black arts movement. After returning from his World War II military service, he immersed himself in a self-directed study of dance literature and photography. In the late 1940s and '50s, Nash performed on Broadway and toured with influential modern dance artists such as Pearl Primus and Donald McKayle. He also began teaching and lecturing on dance history in Philadelphia and New York. Nash was a consultant and lecturer at the American Dance Festival from the 1990s until his death in 2005. He was widely considered one of the leading experts on the role of African-Americans in the development of modern dance. During his life, Nash donated materials from his vast archival collection to the New York Public Library, the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture in Harlem, The Arthur Hall Collection in Philadelphia, Florida A&M University, the American Dance Festival, and the National Afro-American Museum and Cultural Center in Ohio.
Motion picture films have been created in the United States, primarily in southern California, since the very early 20th century.
The Norman Film Manufacturing Company was created in the late 1910s by Richard Norman and produced films with all-Black casts, known at the time as "race films". Race films were those movies made specifically for African American audiences and with African American casts. The studio produced silent films including The Green-Eyed Monster (1919), The Love Bug (1919), The Bull Dogger (1921), Crimson Skull (1921), Regeneration (1923), The Flying Ace (1926), and Black Gold (1928). The company and studio was located in Jacksonville, FL, along with a number of other studios in the 1910s and 1920s, but when the film industry adopted talking films and shifted to Hollywood, CA, the Norman Film Manufacturing Company moved to distributing films, then exhibiting films, before shutting down in the 1940s. The only surviving film is the Flying Ace, which was restored by the Library of Congress and is available for viewing online.
Pressbooks were marketing and promotional tools created by film distributors and sent to movie theaters. Pressbooks usually included images of posters, lobby cards, and other advertising materials available to promote the film, as well as suggestions or guides for advertising and promotion. Pressbooks came in a wide variety of sizes and could also include additional information about the film and cast itself. Pressbooks were commonly produced by major film studios from the 1910s onward.
Elizabeth D. Dalton and R. Alfred Brand, III, are daughter and son-in-law of the late Harry L. and Mary K. Dalton, collectors of rare books and manuscripts.
Polk was an Episcopal priest and Davis' classmate at West Point. He was killed in GA on a reconnaissance mission for the Confederate Army in 1864 June.
Signer of the Declaration of Independence from Virginia.
Signer of the Declaration of Independence from Virginia. Led the Stamp Act rebellion, 1766 February.
The Roland Alston family was an African American family residing in Durham, NC. William Roland Alston, Sr. (1908-1994), known as "Roland," was born to Ena and Alice Alston in Chatham County, NC. He married Stella Elizabeth Atwater (1913-2009) in 1930 and the couple had two children: William Roland Alston, Jr. (1931-1995) and Joeseph Louis Alston (1936-2023). The elder Roland became the head gardener for Mary Duke Biddle at Pinecrest then Mary Duke Biddle Trent Semans at Les Terraces, both properties located in Durham.
Americans for Immigrant Justice (formerly Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center (FIAC)) is a not-for-profit legal assistance organization dedicated to protecting and promoting the basic human rights of immigrants of all nationalities.
Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center (FIAC) was founded in 1996 because of pending restrictions and funding cuts to Legal Services Corporation (LSC) funded agencies, which prevented many organizations in the state of Florida from serving the immigrant population. Sweeping changes in immigration law and welfare reform also increased the demand for services from FIAC. In 2011 After 15 years of helping immigrants obtain legal status, successfully litigating their unjust treatment and pressing for constructive immigration laws and policy, the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center (FIAC) became Americans for Immigrant Justice (AI Justice for short and Americanos Por Justicia Inmigrante in Spanish) to better reflect the national focus and depth of their work.
In the mid nineteenth century, publishers printed the lyrics to popular songs, without their tunes, on small sheets called song sheets, handbills, or broadsides. These sheets were often illustrated with a woodcut scene or portrait and sold at gathering places where people sang together.
American woman traveling in Europe.
The American Society of Papyrologists, founded in 1961 and based at Duke University in Durham, N.C., is an organization dedicated to studying ancient papyri.
Susan B. Anthony was born February 15, 1820 in Adams, Massachusetts. She was brought up in a Quaker family with long activist traditions. Early in her life she developed a sense of justice and moral zeal. After teaching for fifteen years, she became active in temperance. Because she was a woman, she was not allowed to speak at temperance rallies. This experience, and her acquaintance with Elizabeth Cady Stanton, led her to join the women's rights movement in 1852. Soon after, she dedicated her life to woman suffrage. Ignoring opposition and abuse, Anthony traveled, lectured, and canvassed across the nation for the vote. She also campaigned for the abolition of slavery, the right for women to own their own property and retain their earnings, and she advocated for women's labor organizations. In 1900, Anthony persuaded the University of Rochester to admit women. Anthony, who never married, was aggressive and compassionate by nature. She had a keen mind and a great ability to inspire. She remained active until her death on March 13, 1906.
The American Ophthalmological Society was founded in 1864 and is currently based in San Francisco, California.
Anne Baker received her B.A. in Social Welfare from S.I.U. Edwardsville in 1975. She went on to work at the Planned Parenthood of St. Louis from 1975-1976. Baker received her M.A. in Counseling Psychology from Lindenwood College. In 1995, she published Abortion and Options Counseling: A Comprehensive Reference. Baker worked as a counselor and later the Director of Counseling at the Hope Clinic for Women in Granite City, Illinois from 1976-2012.
The collection also contains significant records of the Hope Clinic in Granite City, Illinois. The Hope Clinic was founded in 1974 with Dr. Hector Zevallos as the medical director. The clinic was bombed and subsequently rebuilt in 1982. Dr. Hector Zevallos and his wife Rosalie Jean Zevallos were kidnapped by an anti-abortion terrorist group called the Army of God. They were released eight days later. The Hope Clinic remains in operation today, although the counseling wing of the clinic was disbanded in 2012 due to budget cuts.
English businessman and schoolmaster.
U.S. consul official and newspaper editor and publisher.
Anna Letitia Barbauld (1743-1825) was an English writer, teacher, and editor who published poetry, works for children, literary criticism, and essays. She was a successful writer at a time when women professional writers were an anomaly. Her first book of poems (1773) established her literary reputation in England, and her later essays were compared to Samuel Johnson. Along with her husband, Barbauld ran the boy's school Palgrave Academy for 11 years, during which time she established herself as a writer of children's pedagogical texts, as well as poetry for children. She is credited with establishing children's literature as a legitimate genre, and her editorial works, particularly The British Novelists series, helped establish the British literary canon. Barbauld was an abolitionist and was also against the Napoleonic Wars, two subjects she addressed in her political writing. Both her poetry and her political essays were occasionally subject to harsh contemporary criticism, which eventually caused her to retreat from the public eye. She lived in Stoke Newington from 1802 until her death in 1825. Barbauld's literary legacy was largely forgotten until the rise of feminist literary criticism in the late 20th century, which helped resurrect her place in history.
William Allen (1770-1843) was an English Quaker abolitionist, scientist, educator, and philanthropist who was active in various social reform movements of early 19th century England. He was trained as a chemist, and his pharmaceutical company, Allen & Hanburys, grew into one of the UK's largest drug companies. One year after this poem was written, he founded the Newington Academy for Girls, a progressive school in Stoke Newington. Although Barbauld was near the end of her life at the time of this writing, is it evidence that she and Allen maintained at least an epistolatory friendship based on their common interests.
Ted Bates Biography
1901 Sept. 11 born Theodore Lewis Bates (New Haven, Conn.)
1920 Graduated, Andover Academy (Andover, Mass.)
1924 Graduated, Yale University (New Haven, Conn.)
Worked at Chase National Bank (New York, N.Y.); started as an assistant but soon promoted to advertising manager
circa 1927 Joined George Batten Company
1928 Named general assistant after the George Batten Company merged with Barton Durstine & Osborn to become Batten Barton Durstine & Osborn (BBDO)
1934 Named Vice President at BBDO
1935 Joined Benton & Bowles as account executive and copywriter; Bates' first account client was Colgate-Palmolive
1936 Bates named account supervisor for Continental Baking after it moved its account to Benton & Bowles
1939 After Chester Bowles expressed a desire to retire, executives from both Colgate-Palmolive and Continental Baking urged Bates to form his own agency
1940 Ted Bates Company (TBC) started, with Colgate-Palmolive and Continental Baking as its initial clients
1955-1972 Honorary Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Executive Committee, TBC
1961-1965 Chief Executive Officer, TBC
1965 Retired as CEO
1972 May 30 Died
1982 Inducted into American Advertising Federation Hall of Fame
Corporate History: Predecessors
1891 George Batten Company opened in New York
circa 1927 Ted Bates joined George Batten Company. William Benton and Chester Bowles were co-workers at the agency
1928 George Batten Company merged with the Barton Durtsine & Osborn advertising agency to form Batten Barton Durstine & Osborn (BBDO)
1929 William Benton and Chester Bowles left BBDO to form Benton & Bowles agency
1935 Bates joined Benton & Bowles; Rosser Reeves was a co-worker at the agency
1936 William Benton sold his interest in Benton & Bowles and retired
1939 Chester Bowles expressed a desire to retire from advertising; executives from both Colgate-Palmolive and Continental Baking urged Bates to form his own agency
Corporate History: 1940-1948: Ted Bates Company (TBC)
1940 Agency founded; initial clients were Continental Baking (Wonder Bread) and Colgate Dental Cream, with combined billings of $2.9 million
1942 Won Carter-Wallace account (Carter's Pills, Arrid antipersperants, Trojan prophylactics)
Rosser Reeves hired as TBC's first chief copy writer
Corporate History: 1948-1983: Ted Bates & Co. (TB&C)
1948 TBC reformed as a partnership, Ted Bates & Co. (TB&C), with 14 full partners
1952 Billings reached $30 million
1955 TB&C incorporated as Ted Bates & Co., Inc. (TB&C)
1957 Billings reached $100 million
1959 Established an international presence through a partnership, Hobson, Bates & Partners Ltd., based in London
Rudolph Montgelas named President of TB&C
1960 Donald Zuckert joined as account manager
1961 Reeves gave up positions as CEO and Chairman and returned to full-time copy writing
Rosser Reeves published his book articulating the philosophy behind the USP (Unique Selling Proposition) concept, Reality in Advertising
1962 Robert Jacoby joined as Vice President and Account Supervisor
1963 Thomas Richardson became the first African-American hired as a full-time copywriter at TB&C
1964 Established a presence in Australia and the Asia/Pacific region through acquisition of George Patterson, Pty. Ltd., Australia's largest advertising agency; formed George Patterson Bates
1965 Archibald Foster named to replace Bates as President and CEO
Rosser Reeves inducted into Copywriters Hall of Fame
Ted Bates retired as CEO of TB&C; named Honorary Chairman
1966 TB&C acquired AC & R Advertising, Inc., which became TB&C's first American subsidiary
Rosser Reeves retired
1969 Robert Jacoby named President of the New York office
1971 Billings reached $425 million
Archibald Foster named Chairman of TB&C
1972 Robert Jacoby named President of TB&C
Company moved from 666 5th Ave. address to new headquarters at One Astor Plaza
1973 Robert Jacoby named CEO of TB&C
1976 Robert Jacoby named Chairman of TB&C
Custom Marketing established as a subsidiary to concentrate on local radio advertising
1978 Acquired the Chicago agency Stern Walters/Earle Ludgin Inc.; the Campbell-Mithun agency; and Orikomi Advertising Ltd. of Japan
1979 Bill Backer and Carl Spielvogel formed Backer & Spielvogel agency
1980 Won account for Miller Brewing Company
1981 Acquired Atlanta agency McDonald & Little, the largest advertising agency in the U.S. south
Robert Bruns named President of TB&C's New York office
1982 Michael Becker hired as World Creative Leader in an effort to boost Bates's image as a top creative agency
Robert Bruns quit as President of the New York office after less than 18 months on the job
Posted earnings over $356 million on $2.4 billion in billings
Corporate History: 1983-1986: Ted Bates Worldwide
1983 TB&C renamed as Ted Bates Worldwide (TBW) to reflect its global branding aims
Donald Zuckert named President of the New York office
1984 Ted Bates Europe formed to consolidate British and continental European operations; Bruce McLaren named CEO and Chairman of Board
Rosser Reeves died, Chapel Hill, N.C.
1985 Atlanta agency McDonald & Little, acquired by TBW in 1981, closed
TBW acquired the William Esty Company in the largest advertising agency merger up to that time; also acquired Scholz & Friends, Germany's largest advertising network
Michael Becker fired as Creative Director
Won Matchbox and Olivetti Personal Computers European accounts, worth a combined $30 million; won account for Hyundai North America
Charles N. Jamison became the first African American promoted to Vice President at TBW
John H. Nichols joined TBW (from Leo Burnett USA) as head of the global management group
John Hoyne, President of TBW's international operations, entered negotiations with the Saatchi brothers for the sale of TBW
Corporate History: 1986-1994: Backer Spielvogel Bates (BSB)
1986 Acquired Draft, a direct marketing agency
Backer & Spielvogel merged with TBW to form Backer Spielvogel Bates (BSB); German agency Scholz & Friends made into a separately branded entity
TBW and another American agency, Backer & Spielvogel, acquired by Saatchi & Saatchi parent, Cordiant plc
Acquired Conill Advertising, a specialist in the U.S. Hispanic market, and direct marketing firm Kobs & Brady
Warner-Lambert fired TBW as its advertising agency
1986 Sept. 19 Donald Zuckert named CEO to replace Robert Jacoby, who was fired and subsequently forced to resign as President of the American Association of Aadvertising Agencies (AAAA) before actually taking office
1987 Donald Zuckert named President of Bates/New York
Became an equity partner in Jamison and Leary Advertising, a startup firm established by Charles Jamison and Kathryn Leary, former African American executives at TBW
Won account for Wendy's International restaurant chain
TBW resigned from American Cyanamide account under pressure from Saatchi client Procter & Gamble.
Lost nearly $300 million in billings with the departure of major clients such as RJ Reynolds Tobacco Co., Nabisco, and Warner-Lambert
1988 Subsidiary Draft renamed as Kobs and Draft
Subsidiaries William Esty and Campbell-Mithun merged into Campbell Mithun Esty
1988 June 20 Rudolph Montgelas (President of TBC 1959-1965) died
1989 Apr. 4 Archibald McGeorge Foster (President of TBC 1965-1969, Chairman 1971-1974) died
1991 Lost Miller Lite account to Leo Burnett USA; the account, which BSB had held since 1979, was worth $110 million in billings, and capped a three year slide during which BSB lost several major accounts including Prudential ($60 million), Xerox ($25 million), Dole ($20 million) and Fisher-Price ($15 million)
1992 Michael Bungey named President and CEO of Bates
1993 Bill Backer retired
141 Worldwide, an interactive sales promotion agency, launched
Corporate History: 1994-2003: Bates Worldwide
1994 Purchased McCaffrey and McCall agency, later renamed Bates Midwest
Rosser Reeves inducted into the American Advertising Federation's Hall of Fame
Launched Zenith Media USA, the world's first global media buying agency
Carl Spielvogel, chairman of BSB, retired
BSB changed name to Bates Worldwide (BW)
1995 Saatchi brothers leave Saatchi & Saatchi
Lost account for M&M/Mars, which it had held since 1954, to BBDO Worldwide
1996 Bill Backer inducted into the American Advertising Federation's Hall of Fame
Acquired BLGK, the largest advertising agency in South Africa
Bates USA lost account for Miller Genuine Draft beer, worth $45 million, to Wieden & Kennedy
BW established Worldwide Creative Board, with John Fawcett (from George Patterson Bates) as Chairman. Instituted an annual internal creative competition, Best of Bates.
1997 Cordiant plc demerger: Saatchi & Saatchi and a new entity, Cordiant Communications Group (CCG) became separate, publicly traded entities; BW remained under CCG
1998 Bates Retail established to handle retail work, including accounts for Wendy's and CVS
1999 Won account for ESPN, a cable-based sports network
Diamond AD Ltd., Korea's 3rd largest agency, bought by CCG
2000 Saatchi & Saatchi acquired by Publicis Groupe SA
Donino, White & Partners, a marketing firm specializing in the technology sector, bought by CCG, renamed DWP/Bates
CCG.XM launched as CCG's e-business consulting operation
BW billings approach $7.9 billion
2002 Lost Hyundai, Wendy's accounts
BW and partner CCG.XM won the contract to re-design the website for the US Government Services Administration (GSA)
2003 CCG bought by WPP (Wire and Plastic Products, a British manufacturer of grocery baskets transformed by Martin Sorell into a global holding company)
Bates Worldwide broken up. Bates USA operations folded into the J. Walter Thompson Co.; European operations folded into Red Cell; Bates Asia remained as a stand-alone agency
Lost Allied Domecq account, BW's 2nd largest global client at the time
CCG entered into an Interim Support Agreement with lenders to try to resolve financial problems
Notable Advertising Campaigns in Bates' History
1943 Palmolive soap, Doctors prove 2 out of 3 women can have more beautiful skin in 14 days
1945 Colgate Dental Cream, It cleans your breath while it cleans your teeth. Slogan coined by Alicia Tobin
1952 Viceroy cigarettes (Brown & Williamson Tobacco Co.), Twenty Thousand Tiny Filter Traps launched
Advertising campaign for presidential candidate Dwight D. Eisenhower (Citizens for Eisenhower) marked the first extensive use of television in a political campaign
Whitehall Pharmacal's analgesic Anacin, Fast, fast, fast relief
1954 Colgate Comedy Hour television serial variety show
M&M candy, Melts in your mouth, not in your hand
1960 Certs breath mints (American Chicle, a subsidiary of Warner-Lambert), It's two, two, two mints in one!
1961 Wonder bread (Continental Baking), Helps build strong bodies 12 ways
1964 Trident sugar-free gum (Warner-Lambert Pharmaceutical Co.), 4 out of 5 dentists surveyed recommend sugarless gum
1966 Playtex girdles, Tames your figure like nothing else. The commercial, which featured a woman in evening wear walking a panther down a city street, marked the first effort by TBC to remake its creative image in the post-Reeves era
1967 Palmolive Dish Detergent (Colgate-Palmolive), Madge the Manicurist
Visine eye drops (Pfizer), Gets the Red Out
1969 Kool Cigarettes (Brown & Williamson Tobacco Co.), Lady be Cool
1975 Kool Cigarettes (Brown & Williamson Tobacco Co.), Kool Jazz Festival started
1978 Coors Light beer (Coors Brewing Co.), product launch.
1989 Hyundai Sonata product launch
Start of Wendy's International Inc. campaign featuring the restaurant chain's CEO Dave Thomas. The campaign, one of the longest running television campaigns in U.S. retail history, included more than 800 commercials over a 13-year span.
1997 Dentyne Ice chewing gum (Cadbury Adams) product launch
1999 Lucky Strikes cigarettes (Brown & Williamson Tobacco Co.), Lucky loves you
2002 Joint--Bates USA, Ad Council, and the U.S. Army--public service campaign, Operation Graduation, to address a growing high school dropout rate
Raymond C. Battalio (1938-2004) and John B. Van Huyck (1956-2014) were both white American academic economists who spent their entire careers at Texas A&M University (TAMU; 1969-2004 and 1984-2014, respectively).
Battalio earned a BS in economics from the University of California, Berkeley in 1966 and a MS and PhD from Purdue University in 1968 and 1970, respectively, where he was supervised by Robert Basmann. He was one of the 12 founders of the Economic Science Association (ESA) in 1986 and served as its third president from 1988-1989, and he and Van Huyck founded the Economic Research Laboratory in 1997. He was married to Nancy Battalio, had three sons (Robert, Joe, and Eric Battalio), and was a US Navy veteran.
Van Huyck was the Rex B. Grey Professor of Economics at TAMU. He earned a BA in economics from the University of Virginia in 1979 and an MA and PhD from Brown University in 1982 and 1986, respectively, where he was supervised by Herschel Grossman. He was also active in the ESA and served as a board member. He was married to Patsy Johnson, had three sons (Carl Phillips, Don Ashfield, and Bjorn Bennett Van Huyck), and was a Cub Scout den leader.
Battalio began designing experiments in the 1970s to test consumer demand theory in token economies with John Kagel, and he also studied individual choice behavior in pigeons, rats, and humans; this work had broad appeal and was widely published in economics and psychology journals.
Van Huyck's early work was on sovereign debt and macroeconomics with Herschel Grossman, and it led him to develop an interest in coordination failures and studying these specifically through experiments with Battalio.
They are primarily known for their lab work on the problem of multiple equilibria in game theory. Along with Richard Biel, they carried out a series of experiments on coordination that began with the minimum-effort coordination game in 1990. Among their other experiments were ones on the emergence of conventions, chaotic dynamics, decentralized allocation, and average opinion and peasant-dictator games.
1945 Born, Fort Benning, Georgia
1974 B.A., George Mason University
1975 M.F.A., University of Iowa
1980 Real Presence
1980- Professor of English and creative writing, George Mason University
1981 Take Me Back
1982 National Endowment for the Arts grant
1984 Guggenheim Fellowship
The Last Good Time
1987 Spirits and Other Stories
1989 Mr. Field's Daughter
1990 The Fireman's Wife and Other Stories
1992 Violence
1993 Rebel Powers
1994 Rare and Endangered Species: A Novella and Stories
1995 Aren't You Happy for Me? and Other Stories
1996 The Selected Stories of Richard Bausch
Good Evening Mr. and Mrs. America, and All the Ships at Sea: A Novel
1998 In the Night Season
1999 Someone to Watch Over Me: Stories
2002 Hello to the Cannibals
Marion Belanger photographs the cultural landscape, particularly where geology and the built environment intersect. She was an honoree for the 2017 Shpilman International Prize for Excellence in Photography from the Israeli Museum of Art, and is the author of Rift/ Fault, with an essay by Lucy Lippard (Radius Books, 2016) and Everglades: Outside and Within, with an essay by Susan Orlean (Center for American Places at Columbia College Chicago, 2009). Belanger was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship to photograph the contested landscape of the Florida Everglades in 2002.
She earned an M.F.A. from the Yale University School of Art where she was the recipient of both the John Ferguson Weir Award and the Schickle-Collingwood Prize, and a B.F.A. from the College of Art & Design at Alfred University. She has been an artist in residence at the MacDowell Colony, Everglades National Park, and MASS MoCA, among others.
Her photographs are shown internationally, and her work is held in many collections including the National Gallery for Art, the New Orleans Museum of Art, and the Yale University Art Gallery and the Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library. Exhibitions include Photography and America's National Parks, George Eastman Museum, Rochester, NY; Internationale Fototage: Contemporary American Photography, Mannheim, Germany; Northern (L) Attitudes: Norwegian and American Contemporary Art, The American-Scandinavian Foundation, New York, NY. The artist resides in Guilford, Connecticut and she teaches at the Hartford Art School.
Outdoor advertising executive with Southern Outdoor Markets and Associates of the Bell Company firms, based in Atlanta, Ga. Graduate, University of Missouri School of Journalism; Account Executive, Institute of Outdoor Advertising 1960; Executive Sales Manager, Outdoor Advertising Inc. 1964; founder and President, Southern Outdoor Markets 1965, renamed Associates of the Bell Company (ABC) 1974; awarded Ray Vahue Award/Marketing Award of Merit by OAAA 1985; ABC acquired by Bill Wilkins 1987, renamed Wilkins Media Company 1999.
1830 Born Liverpool, England
1848 Began photographic career working for his brother-in-law's daguerreotype studio in Philadelphia
1872 Served as photographer for the Wheeler Survey, West of the 100th Meridian
1910 Died in Philadelphia, Pa.
In 1872, William Bell, a photographer from Philadelphia, found employment on a survey team established by the Army and formally titled: "U.S. Geographical and Geological Explorations and Surveys West of the 100th Meridian, under the command of Lieutenant George M. Wheeler." Bell had been hired by Wheeler to replace Timothy O'Sullivan, another expeditionary photographer, who participated in the Wheeler survey of 1871 and returned in 1873.
Perhaps because William Bell participated in only one expedition, a limited amount of biographical information has been recorded for him, and that information is often vague. William Bell has most often been confused with another photographer Dr. William A. Bell (1841-1920) who served on the Palmer Expedition of 1867 for which William Jackson Palmer surveyed a route through the southwest for the Kansas Pacific Railroad.
William Bell may have fought in the US-Mexican War and for the Union in the Civil War.
Some sources have also indicated that William Bell was appointed chief photographer of the Army Medical Museum in Washington, D.C., where he may have made photographs of soldiers wounded in the Civil War.
The Beloved Community Center, located in Greensboro, N.C.,. is an organization dedicated to social activism and uplift in the Greensboro area. Founded by three reverends in 1991, the center's mission of social justice is based on Dr. Martin Luther King's vision of a "beloved community."
Bryant Bennett was a merchant and planter residing in Williamston, North Carolina (in Martin County).
Mainly comprised of German and Eastern European immigrants as well as Russian-Jewish cigarette rollers, the Durham Hebrew Congregation organized in 1887 and rented a hall on Main Street. James B. Duke had formed a contract with Ukrainian immigrant Moses Gladstein to bring over a hundred workers from New York to roll cigarettes in Duke's tobacco factories. Duke automated the factory in 1884 and dismissed the Jewish workers. Most returned north, but several, including Gladstein, chose to remain and opened stores in Durham. As the population continued to slowly grow, the congregation formally chartered in 1892 and hired a rabbi. In 1905 they purchased a small, wood-framed church on Liberty Street, which became Durham's first synagogue. By 1910 the Jewish population in the area had reached approximately 305.
After the First World War, the congregation built a large, cathedral-style synagogue downtown at the intersection of Holloway and Queen Streets. Upon its dedication in 1921, they took the name Beth El Congregation. The congregation remained Orthodox throughout the 1930s and 1940s, but in 1948 hired a rabbi who was a member of the conservative movement. Despite significant internal tensions, the congregation shed its dominant orthodoxy by the mid 1950s. The congregation broke ground on a new, contemporary "American" synagogue on Watts and Markham Streets in 1957; the old structure became the Bethel Baptist Church with a primarily African American congregation. Durham took over and demolished the building in the late 1960s for urban renewal. The location is now the northwest corner of WTVD, the local ABC news affiliate for Durham.
By its centennial year, 1987, the congregation was known as Beth El Synagogue, and had not only successfully created a strategy to accommodate both its modern leanings and orthodox heritage but also helped create other Jewish congregations such as Judea Reform. Beth El had also embraced women as ritual and lay leaders in the 1970s, and the creation of the adjacent Freedman Center in 1987 allowed the congregation to further expand its community service and social action programs. Today, as part of a Jewish population of approximately 8,000 in the Durham-Chapel Hill community, Beth El defines itself as "a vibrant, dynamic community led by a volunteer board, enriched with the teachings of many dedicated community members."
Blackman Company was an advertising company founded in 1908 by Oscar H. Blackman and Frank Hermes. Became Compton Advertising in 1937.
Samuel Blackwell, a sugar refiner and lay preacher, emigrated to the United States from England in 1832, with his wife Hannah (Lane), eight children, and a governess. Their youngest child was born in New York City; they moved to Newark, N.J., then to Cincinnati, Ohio. Of the nine children, three are represented in this collection, Anna Blackwell, the poet, translator, and journalist; Elizabeth Blackwell (1821-1910), the pioneering physician; and Henry B. Blackwell (1825-1909), an editor, journalist, and businessman. Also represented is his wife, suffragist Lucy Stone, and their daughter, Alice Stone Blackwell. In addition, there are materials from Lucy's niece, Emma Stone Lawrence, who eventually married George Washington Blackwell, another of the nine children of Samuel and Hannah Blackwell. There are items from their daughter, Anna M. Blackwell, who went on to marry Charles Belden, librarian of the Massachusetts State Library, in 1908, as well as from Helen Thomas Blackwell, who married Anna’s brother, Howard.
1891, Nov. 11 Born in Wilmington, N.C.
ca. 1910 Attended Women's College, University of North Carolina (Greensboro, N.C.)
1918-1922 Served as Nurse, U.S. Army Nurse Corps, Greenville S.C.
1922, Aug. 24 Married Ralph Royd Blakely in Clinton, S.C.
1923, Sept. 3 Daughter, Florence Ella Blakely, born
1926, May 18 Daughter, Ann Newkirk Blakely, born
1984, Oct. 16 Died in Durham, N.C.
Advertising executive who worked for the Ogilvy & Mather agency in New York and London. Born 1931, Brooklyn, N.Y. Fordham University, College of Pharmacy. Military service 1953-1955. New York University Business School, 1955. 1955-1961 R.H. Macy's, buyer. 1961-1964, whelan Drug Store, manager. Ogilvy & Mather: Account Supervisor (1964); Vice President (1968); Senior Vice President (1979); General Manager O&M New YOrk (1982-1986); President O&M Healthcare (1982-1986); Worldwide Management Supervisor--Unilever, Shell, SmithKline Beecham (1986-1991); Executive Director, Worldwide Clients (1991-1994). Retired 1994.
1921 Sep. 23 Born in Lvov, Poland
1923 Moved to the United States
1938-1941 A.B., Brooklyn College
1942-1946 Served in the U.S. Army Signal Corps in WWII
1946-1948 M.A. in sociology from University of Chicago
1947-1948 Instructor in English, Illinois Institute of Technology
1948 Aug. 8 Married Agnes Cohen
1948-1951 Opinion Research Analyst, Standard Oil Company (New Jersey)
1948-1950 Ph.D. in sociology from University of Chicago
1949-1951 Lecturer in Sociology, New York University
1951-1952 Fulbright Research Fellow, Institut National d'Etudes Demographiques, Paris, France
1952-1958 Vice President, Market Planning Corporation Division, McCann-Erickson, Inc.
1953-1961 Lecturer in Sociology, Columbia University
1956-1957 President, Radio-Television Research Council
1958-1960 Director of Marketing Research, Revlon, Inc.
1960-1966 Vice President of Marketing Planning and Research, Newspaper Advertising Bureau (NAB)
1965-1966 President, World Association for Public Opinion Research
1965-1966 President, Market Research Council
1966-1967 President, American Association for Public Opinion Research
1966-1989 Executive Vice President and General Manager, NAB
1971-1972 President, Consumer Psychological Division, American Psychological Association
1989-1990 Senior Fellow, Gannett Center for Media Studies, Columbia University
1990 Adjunct Professor of Marketing, New York University
1996-2005 Director and Senior Consultant, Innovation International Media Consulting Group
2005 Oct. 15 Died, Mt. Sinai Hospital, New York, NY
Organization Abbreviations
AAAA - American Association of Advertising Agencies
AAPOR - American Association for Public Opinion Research
ABC - Audit Bureau of Circulations
ACR - Association for Consumer Research
AEJ - Association for Education in Journalism (changed to AEJMC)
AEJMC - Association for Education in Journalism and Mass Communication
AMA - American Marketing Association
ANA - Association of National Advertisers
ANPA - American Newspaper Publishers Association
APA - American Psychological Association
APME - Associated Press Managing Editors
ARF - Advertising Research Foundation
ASA - American Sociological Association
ASNE - American Society of Newspaper Editors
ESOMAR - World Association of Opinion and Marketing Research Professionals (formerly European Society for Opinion and Marketing Research)
IAMCR - International Association for Media and Communication Research
IAPA - Inter American Press Association
ICMA - International Circulation Managers Association
IFRA - [publishers]
INAE - International Newspaper Advertising Executives (changed to INAME)
INAME - International Newspaper Advertising and Marketing Executives
INCFO - Institute of Newspaper Controllers and Finance Officers
INPA - International Newspaper Publishers Association
MRDA - Media Research Directors Association
NAB - Newspaper Advertising Bureau
NRMA - National Retail Marketers Association
WAPOR - World Association for Public Opinion Research
Félix Bonfils (1831-1885) was a French-born photographer who migrated to Beirut, Lebanon around 1867, where he opened a studio named "Maison Bonfils" together with his wife, Lydie Bonfils (1837-1918), who was also a photographer. They changed the name to Bonfils et Cie in 1878. Studio assistants included the Bonfils's son Adrien (1860-1929), who in 1878 took over the photographic work while his parents ran the studios, and the Syrian brothers Georges and Louis Saboungi.
The studio produced photographic views of Egypt, Palestine, Syria, and Greece, totaling an estimated 15,000 single prints; they were also sold as stereographic views and in albums. They became much sought after by tourists and publishers, and in the wake of this success, other Bonfils studios opened in Alexandria, Cairo, and in Alés, France, where Félix Bonfils died in 1885. His son Adrien and wife Lydie continued to operate the studios; Adrien quit the business sometime around 1900, but Lydie continued to manage it until World War I forced her to flee Beirut in 1916, taking many of the Bonfils plates and prints with her.
Maud Ballington Booth was the founder, with her husband, of the Volunteers of America in 1896 and its auxiliary, the Volunteer Prison League.
African-American graphic artist, professor and advertising executive based primarily in California; principal in the firm Archie Boston Graphic Design. Born 1943, in Clewiston, Florida and grew up in St. Petersburg, Florida. After graduating from Chouinard Art Institute in Los Angeles with a BFA in Advertising Design, Boston and his brother Brad Boston, formed their own ad and design agency Boston & Boston Design in 1967. In 1969, Boston started working for the ad agency Botsford Ketchum. During his eight years with Botsford Ketchum, Boston worked with clients such as Pentel, Motorola, and Yamaha. Simultaneously he started Archie Boston Graphic Design, an advertising and design agency. In 1977, Boston received his Master's Degree in Liberal Arts from the University of Southern California and was hired as a lecturer in the Department of Art at California State University Long Beach (CSULB) where he was a member of the Design department which included the Visual Communication Design Program. He chaired the graphic design program for 12 of his 32 years before retiring in 2009. He was the first African-American elected president of the Los Angeles Art Directors Club, where he served two terms. Boston published two memoirs -- Fly in the Buttermilk: Memoirs of an African American in Advertising Design & Design Education (2001) and Lil' Colored Rascals in the Sunshine City (2009). He has also produced two historical documentaries, 20 Outstanding Los Angeles Designers and The Black Pioneers of the Sunshine City.
Margaret Bourke-White was a pioneering American documentary photographer and photojournalist. During World War II, she became the first female war correspondent; she is also known for her work in India and Pakistan, including her final interview and photograph session with Mahatma Ghandi immediately before his assassination.
Mort Weisinger was a longtime editor at DC comics best known for his work on Superman during the Silver Age of Comics. In 1946, Weisinger had recently returned from wartime service and resumed his editorial duties.
Ernest Clyde Bower was a railroad employee in New York, N.Y. and Cleveland, Ohio.
James Boykin is an author and scholar of religion and African American studies.
Eleanor Vere Boyle (1825-1916) was an British artist of the Victorian era whose work consisted mainly of watercolor illustrations in children's books. She signed her works "EVB" to obscure her identity and became one of the most important female illustrators in the 1860's.
Carol Georgette Lake Bradley (1922-2006) was raised in New Jersey and was a distinguished graduate of Duke University (class of 1943).
1917, April 8 Born
1940 B.A. Sociology, University of California at Los Angeles
1942 M.A. Northwestern University (Philosophy of Religion)
1942 Certificate of Religious Education, Garrett Theological Seminary
1947-1948 Visiting Instructor of psychology at Western Maryland College
1951-1958 Member of the League of Women Voters of the Durham Board of Directors
1957-1959 President, League of Women Voters of Durham
1958-1961 Research Assistant, Duke Center for the Study of Aging
1960-1962 Treasurer, League of Women Voters of North Carolina
1962-1965 President of the League of Women Voters of North Carolina
1966 Trustee of the Overseas Education Fund of the League of Women Voters of the United States (LWVUS)
1967-1970 Foreign Policy Chairman, LWVUS
1970-1974 First Vice-President LWVUS, headed League's Education Fund
1971-1974 Member of the Board of the National Institute for Consumer Justice, appointed by President Nixon
1972 Testified on League positions before the Republican and Democratic National platform committees
1973-1974 Consultant in Community Organization, Duke Center for the Study of Aging and Human Development
1974-1979 Member, United States National Commission for UNESCO
1975-1976 Staff member, Duke Center for the Study of Aging
1976 President, North Carolina Women's Equity Action League
1977 Vice-Chair, United States National Commission for UNESCO
1977 Delegate, National Women's Conference in Houston
1978-1979 1st Vice-President North Carolinians United for ERA
1978 Member of the Planning Committee of the 20th UNESCO General Conference Session, Paris, France and Technical Advisor to the United States Delegation
ca. 1978 Chair, Status of Women Committee of the United States National Commission for UNESCO
1979 Vice-President, Women's Forum of North Carolina
1982 Nov. 29 Died
Herbert Clarence Bradshaw (1908-1976) was born on 7 November 1908 in Rice, Virginia. He graduated with a BA from Hampden-Sydney College in 1930, an MA in classical languages from the University of Virginia in 1933, and a LittD degree from Hampden-Sydney in 1967.
For twenty years, he taught and served as a principal in Virginia, and he later taught journalism at North Carolina State University. He became a full-time journalist circa 1949 as Sunday Feature Editor of the Durham Morning Herald and was Editorial Page Leader from 1964 until retiring in December 1973. After, he served as Contributing Editor of the Winston-Salem Journal and as a member of the Durham Redevelopment Commission. He was also a member of the Board of Directors of the Human Betterment League of NC, which promoted eugenics, and was President at the time of his death.
Bradshaw was killed on 22 December 1976 while helping his wife (Mildred Elizabeth Cunningham) wash dishes in their Durham home. James Willie Grace, a Durham native and convicted felon who was likely dealing with untreated schizophrenia, carried out a series of random shootings around Durham from December 10-22 (one other man was killed). He was arrested on 28 December and later convicted on three charges of felonious assault with intent to kill.
Bradshaw is the author of The History of Prince Edward County, Virginia (1955), History of Hampden-Sydney College, vol. I (1976), History of Farmville, VA (1948), Toward the Dawn: History of the First Quarter-Century of the NC State Association for the Blind, 1934-1960 (1961), and fifty articles from 1935-1976 on the histories of the Baptist Church, the Lions organization, and organizations for the blind in NC, and historical pieces on such topics as Patrick Henry, Thomas Jefferson, and historic houses.
The minister who authored these sermons was undoubtedly a member of the Methodist Church South, and from church appointment records he is almost certainly John Luke Bray. According to Bray's obituary in the Virginia Conference Annual (1938), he was born in 1871 in Gloucester County, Virginia to John and Sarah Luke Bray, and entered the Methodist ministry in the Virginia Conference at the age of 18. He was at Randolph-Macon College for an unspecified period but did not graduate. At some point he was reportedly Superintendent of the Masonic Orphanage in Richmond. He married Pauline Clements of Gloucester, Virginia early in his career. In 1901 he left for the West, and seems to have been minister of the Methodist Church in Shawnee, Oklahoma (then Indian territory) in 1906. He returned to Virginia in 1907; a year later Taylor University in Indiana had conferred on him the Divinity Degree. Going by the sermons that survive in this collection, by 1911 he was preaching in Virginia. His first appointment may have been in Lambert's Point, Virginia (near Norfolk). He then was appointed to various large congregations in Richmond and the Norfolk area, then migrated to smaller churches in Southern Virginia. He died in 1938, perhaps in Crewe, Virginia, a small community where he held his last appointment, and is buried in Richmond.
Lydia L. Brennan ran a photographic business, the Elite Studio in Butte, Montana, until December 1896, when she sold the business to J. W. Nelson. Brennan married John N. Kirk, a Butte lawyer.
Earl Ivan Brown, civil engineer, was born at County Line, Georgia, on 13 October 1874 and graduated 6th in his class from the United States Military Academy in 1898. As a member of the Corps of Engineers, Brown served in both the Philippines and Cuba during and after the Spanish-American War. He participated in the Philippine Insurrection and the Moro Expedition before traveling to the Caribbean for the Cuban Pacification in 1906. During World War I, Brown was the 92nd Division Engineer in the American Expeditionary Forces. Throughout his career Brown developed river and harbor improvements in the United States. He worked principally on the Atlantic and Gulf coasts and on the Ohio River. Brown also worked on the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal and finished his career in 1938 as the Division Engineer of the South Atlantic Division.
Colonel Earl I. Brown died on 25 June 1963 in Durham, North Carolina at age 88. He is buried in Arlington National Cemetery. Brown was the son of William F. and Emily Absilla (Hagen) Brown. He was married to Annie Thompson who died in 1953, and then to Marylily Fisher. His nephew, Earl Ivan Brown, II, was a professor of Civil Engineering at Duke University from 1960 to 1982.
Frank Clyde Brown (1870-1943) served as a Professor of English at Trinity College, Duke University, from 1909 until his death. A native of Virginia, he received his Ph.D. at the University of Chicago in 1908. While at Duke University he served in many capacities, including chairman of his department, University Marshal, and Comptroller of the University during its initial construction. These aspects of his life are chronicled in his papers held by the Duke University Archives.
This collection of materials, however, is concerned with activities to which he devoted equal time and energy, the organization of the North Carolina Folklore Society in 1913 and his personal effort to gather and record the nuances and culture of "folk" of North Carolina and its near neighbors, which occupied him from 1912 until his death. Under the impetus of a 1912 mailing from John A. Lomax, then President of the American Folklore Society, Brown as well as other faculty members and other citizens in North Carolina, became interested in folklore and organized the North Carolina Folklore Society in 1913, with Brown as secretary-treasurer. As secretary-treasurer of this organization from its inception until his death, he provided the organizational impetus behind the Society.
Through his course in folklore at Duke, he also sent class after class out to gather the folklore of their locales, both during their studies and afterward. And virtually every summer he could be found in the most remote parts of the state, with notebook and recorder -- first a dictaphone employing cylinders, and later a machine employing aluminum discs provided for his use by the University. The result, by 1943, was a vast collection of field notes, hundreds of musical scores, thousands of audio recordings, and numerous magazine articles, student theses, books, lists, and other items related to this study. The majority of the material originated in North Carolina, with the rest from 20 other states and Canada, and came from the efforts of 650 other contributors besides Brown himself.
Although Brown promised the Society on an almost yearly basis to publish at least part of this collection to which its members were contributing, he never took more than a few tentative steps toward doing so. Thus, at Brown's death in 1943, Newman Ivey White, also a Professor of English at Duke University, close colleague of Brown's, and charged by Brown with continuing the work, inherited the dual confusion of the folklore collection, which was piled in Brown's attic office at home, and the conflicting claims of ownership of the collection of Mrs. Brown, the North Carolina Folklore Society, and Duke University. When it became apparent that all were amenable to seeing the collection in print, White assumed the post of general editor, which passed to Paull Franklin Baum, also a Professor of English and Director of the Duke Press, after White's death in 1948.
Leslie Brown was born in 1954 in New York City and was raised in Albany, N.Y. She was a Professor of History at Williams College, Williamstown, MA (2008-2016). She also taught History and African and African-American Studies at Washington University, St. Louis, MO (1999-2008), and History and Women's and Gender Studies at the University of Missouri--St. Louis (1997-1999). She served as Co-Coordinator for "Behind the Veil: Documenting African American Life in the Jim Crow South," Center for Documentary Studies at Duke University (1990-1995). Her first book, Upbuilding Black Durham: Gender, Class, and Black Community Development in the Jim Crow South, won the Organization of American Historians' Frederick Jackson Turner Award. She and Anne Valk, her life partner, co-authored Living with Jim Crow: African American Women and Memories of the Jim Crow South in 2010 which won the Oral History Association's Biennial Book Award. Brown died from leukemia in 2016.
Born in Union, Maine, John Emory Bryant (1836-1900) was an abolitionist, teacher, Union officer with the 8th Maine Volunteers, agent of the Freedmen's Bureau, newspaper editor and publisher, lawyer, and Republican politician in Georgia. During the American Civil War Bryant served in the Department of the South, in the Sea Island of Georgia and South Carolina. There he worked with General Rufus Saxton and commanded African-American troops, leading raids to free slaves from nearby plantations. In 1864 Bryant married Emma Frances Spaulding (1844-1901), who was born in Buckfield, Maine. They had two children together, a son who died in infancy and a daughter Alice. After the war, Bryant returned to Georgia and was heavily involved in Georgian Republican politics, serving as a congressman for one term and as state party chairman from 1876-1880. Bryant was involved in many organizations including the Georgia Equal Rights Association, the Methodist Episcopal Church, the Southern Advance Association, and the Sons of Temperance.
William Anderson Pledger (1852-1904) was an editor of the Atlanta Blade newspaper, teacher, prominent Black Republican politician in Georgia, and friend of John Emory Bryant. In 1880 Pledger was elected chairman of the Republican state committee in Georgia, the first Black man to serve in that office. Pledger helped organize the Afro-American League (which later became the Afro-American Council) in 1890 in Chicago and served as vice president in 1898.
Biographical note adapted from American National Biography:
https://doi-org.proxy.lib.duke.edu/10.1093/anb/9780198606697.article.0401189
https://doi.org/10.1093/anb/9780198606697.article.1500551
John Buck was an American, most likely a resident of the New York metropolitan area.
Armistead Burt (1802-1883) was a planter, lawyer, and U.S. Representative from Abbeville, S.C.
May Clarissa Gillington Byron (1861-1936) was a prolific British author who published a series of children's books, biographies, cookbooks, poetry, as well as abridgements of J.M. Barrie's Peter Pan. She published under a number of pen names, including M.C. Gillington and Maurice Clare. Her husband, the English writer Henry James Byron, was a distant cousin of the poet Lord Byron.
John William Cain (1909-1965) entered the U.S. Navy in 1924 and served in varying capacities until 1964. After being released to inactive duty in 1946 to attend college, he was recalled to active duty in 1950. He spent a good deal of time in China, Japan and Vietnam. He retired from the Navy in 1964 and died from mesothelioma in 1965. While he was not on active duty, he spent his time working on his ranch in Texas with his wife and two children.
1836-1861 Cannon family associated with Concord Steam Manufacturing Co., Concord, N.C.
1852 James William Cannon born in Mecklenburg County, N.C.
1886 J. W. Cannon elected director of Odell Manufacturing Co., Concord, N.C.
1868 J. W. Cannon joined mercantile firm of Cannon, Fetzer, and Wadsworth, Concord, N.C.
1887 J. W. Cannon founded Concord Manufacturing Co.
1892 Charles Albert Cannon born, Concord, N.C.
1893 Cabarrus Cotton Mills founded at Concord, N.C., by J. W. Cannon and others.
1893 Patterson Manufacturing Co. founded at China Grove, Rowan Co., N.C., by J. Frank Patterson, J. W. Cannon, and others.
1895 Kesler Manufacturing Co. founded at Salisbury, N.C.
1898 Cannon production shifted from cloth to towels.
1898 Wiscassett Mills Company founded at Albemarle, Stanly County, N.C., by J. W. Cannon and D. F. Cannon.
1899 Windemere Knitting Mills established at Albemarle, Stanly County, N.C.
1899 Gibson Manufacturing Co. founded at Concord, N.C., by Cannons and others.
1903 Bloomfield Manufacturing Co. founded in 1903 at Statesville, N.C.
1903 Windemere Knitting Mills became part of Wiscassett Mills Co.
1906 Franklin Cotton Mills established at Concord, N.C., by members of the Cannon family.
1907 Barringer Manufacturing Company founded.
1908 Cannon Manufacturing Company began production at Kannapolis, N.C.
1909 Imperial Cotton Mills founded at Eatonton, Georgia, by J. W. Cannon.
1911 Buck Creek Cotton Mills founded at Siluria, Ala.
1913 York Cotton Mills, York, S.C., purchased.
1915 Norcott Mills Co. established at Concord, N.C., with the Cannons and the Southern Power Co. among the early stockholders.
ca. 1915 Social Circle Cotton Mill Co., Walton County, Georgia, acquired by the Cannons.
1921 J. W. Cannon died. Charles Albert Cannon became company president.
1923 Hobarton Manufacturing Co. founded at Concord, N.C., by Charles A. Cannon and others.
1923 Swink Manufacturing Co., Rowan Co., N.C., incorporated.
1928 Cannon Mills formed from consolidation of Cannon Manufacturing Co., Cabarrus Cotton Mills, Barringer Manufacturing Co., Franklin Cotton mills, Gibson Manufacturing Co., Kesler Manufacturing Co., Patterson Manufacturing Co., Norcott Mills., and Hobarton Manufacturing Co.
ca. 1928 Bloomfield Manufacturing Co., Statesville, N.C., acquired by Cannon Mills.
1931 Swink Manufacturing Company dissolved and assets taken over by Cannon and Swink.
1935 Issaqueena Mill, Central, S.C., purchased and became Central Mills.
1935 Bloomfield Manufacturing Co. sold to J. W. Abernethy.
ca. 1944-1945 Plant at York, S.C., combined with Central Mills.
1947 Brown-Roberta Foundation established at Concord, N.C.
1949 Travora Textiles at Graham and Haw River, N.C., incorporated.
1956 Brown Manufacturing Co., Concord, N.C., acquired by Cannon Mills.
1956 Roberta Manufacturing Co., Cabarrus County, N.C., acquired.
1957 Central Mills closed.
1967 Travora Textiles at Graham and Haw River, N.C., liquidated.
ca 1970-1971 Brown Manufacturing Co., Concord, N.C., closed.
1971 Charles Albert Cannon died.
1971 Don S. Holt became president.
1974 Harold P. Hornaday became president.
1976 Imperial Cotton Mills at Eatonton, Georgia closed.
1978 Roberta Manufacturing Co. liquidated.
1979 Otto G. Stolz became president.
1982 David H. Murdock, purchased Cannon Mills.
1983 Social Circle Cotton Mill Co., Walton County, Georgia, liquidated.
1985-1986 Fieldcrest, Inc. purchased bath and bedding operations of Cannon Mills, and Fieldcrest-Cannon was established.
John L. Capen was a phrenologist based at The Phrenological Cabinet, 722 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.
Lawyer of Charleston (Charleston Co.), S.C. Represented the county for two terms in the state's general assembly; member of the Confederate Army's German Artillery; and member of the Charleston City Council under T.T. Hyde. Also, officer in the National German American Alliance and active in the United Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in the South. Married Julia Pieper in 1882.
Materials in this collection largely deal with the years 1991-1996 as the U.S. coped with large numbers of Haitian and Cuban rafters who were held in Guantánamo Bay refugee camps. Beginning in 1991, the U.S. naval base was designated as a receiving point for Haitian migrants who had been intercepted by the U.S. Coast Guard in the Caribbean Sea. Guantánamo Bay was outfitted with semi-permanent camps for the refugees while they waited for a decision from U.S. Immigration on whether they would be returned to Haiti or allowed to enter the United States. This program was expanded in 1994, when Cuban president Fidel Castro retired his Frontier Guards, resulting in a wave of Cuban rafters who were also intercepted by the Coast Guard and brought to Guantaánamo Bay. Between 1994 and 1996 about 50,000 people lived in the Guantánamo Bay camps. Cuban refugees in the camps were granted admission to the United States in 1995-1996, while most Haitian refugees were eventually returned to Haiti.
Edmund John Catrow was a marine who served in the following units during World War II: Second Joint Assault Signal Company, Field Signal Battalion; First Battalion, Sixth Marines; H & S Company, Sixth Marines; First Battalion, Eighth Marines; Regimental Weapons Military Police Company, Eighth Marines; Division Signal Company, Second Marine Division; and First Battalion, Twenty-Eighth Marines, Fifth Marine Division.
The Center for Documentary Studies at Duke University was established for the study of the documentary process. "Indivisible: Stories of American Community" was a national documentary project which took place primarily during 1999-2001, and was sponsored by the Center for Documentary Studies in partnership with the Center for Creative Photography at the University of Arizona. The project captured the experiences of individuals participating in grassroots community organizations and activism in twelve American communities at the end of the 20th century.
The U.S. Census Bureau conducts a nationwide census every 10 years. Census 2000 sought to count and classify a record number of the American population, emphasizing the changing demographics of the country. This collection was donated to the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising, & Marketing History by Sybil F. Stershic, a member of the Census Advisory Committee of Professional Associations for Census 2000.
The Cessna Aircraft Company is a manufacturer of private aircraft founded in 1911 in Wichita, Kansas
G. Hope Summerell Chamberlain was an author, artist, and civic worker, of Raleigh (Wake Co.) and Chapel Hill (Orange Co.), N.C.
King Charles II of England (1630-1685) did not have any official heirs. He did, though, have many children by a number of mistresses. Historians believe the number of children is somewhere between 10 and fifteen. The use of 'armes' or titles of nobility and the privileges that came with it was one way the King acknowledged that these were his children. The most children attributed to a relationship is that between King Charles and Barbara née Villiers (1641–1709), the Duchess of Cleveland, five, all of whom are named in this collection.
Charles E. Cobb, Jr., was born in Washington D.C. in 1943. He became active in the Civil Rights Movement while studying at Howard University, and in 1962 traveled to Mississippi, where he was a field secretary for the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee. In 1963, Cobb advocated for Freedom Schools as a way to develop political awareness and involvement by African Americans in Mississippi. After leaving Mississippi in 1967, Cobb helped found the Washington D.C. bookstore Drum and Spear, continued his efforts in African American education with the Center for Black Education, and began a long career in journalism, working for WHUR Radio, National Public Radio, Frontline, and National Geographic. Cobb has been a visiting professor of Africana studies at Brown University, an analyst for allAfrica.com, and is a founding member, and hall of fame inductee, of the National Association of Black Journalists.
1956 May 6 Cedric N. Chatterley born in Massena, New York
1987 May Master of Fine Arts thesis, Ambivalent Ecstasies/Converging Energies, exhibited at the University of Southern Illinois, Carbondale
1988-1989 In collaboration with Steven Cole, conducted six interviews with Linda Lord about her work at Penobscot Poultry in Maine
1999 Publication of I Was Content and Not Content: the Story of Linda Lord and the Closing of Penobscot Poultry, authors Alicia Rouverol and Steven Cole, photographs by Chatterley (Southern Illinois Press)
2002 July Production completed of Honeyboy, a film documentary on bluesman David "Honeyboy" Edwards, with photographs contributed by Chatterley, directed by Scott L. Taradash
2003 "Each One, Teach One," exhibit featuring the Durham, N.C. program, Triangle Residential Options for Substance Abusers (TROSA), from a project conducted by Barbara Lau and Cedric Chatterley through the Center for Documentary Studies at Duke University
2003-2005 From Cambodia to Greensboro: Tracing the Journeys of New North Carolinians, curated by Barbara Lau, photographs by Chatterley; organized by the Greensboro Historical Museum, Greensboro, North Carolina
2006 Began making his own large format cameras
2010 January 18-28 March Exhibit of Chatterley's portraits of "Honeyboy" Edwards and other blues musicians, 1991-1996, Rare Book, Manuscript, and Special Collections Library at Duke University, Durham, N.C., with concurrent exhibitions at the Center for Documentary Studies
2012 North Carolina at Work: Cedric Chatterley's Portraits and Landscapes of Traditional Labor, exhibit of photographs at the North Carolina Folklife Institute, Durham, N.C.
1940, Oct. 1 Born in Brooklyn, NY to Leon and Lillian (Hammer) Chesler
1962 Bard College, B.A.
1967 New School for Social Research, M.A.
1968-1969 Clinical research associate at Metropolitan Hospital, New York City
Psychotherapy intern at Washington Square Institute for Psychotherapy and Mental Health
Graduate study at New York Medical College
1969 New School for Social Research, Ph.D.
1969-1998 Professor of psychology at the College of Staten Island of the City University of New York
1970 Cofounder, Association for Women in Psychology
Psychotherapist in private practice
Lecturer at various institutions, including Instititute for Developmental Studies and New School for Social Research
1972 Charter member of board of directors of Women's Action Alliance
1974 Member of board of directors of Center for the Study of Psychiatry
1976 Cofounder of National Women's Health Network
1997- Research associate at International Research Institute on Jewish Women, Brandeis University
1998 Professor Emerita of City University of New York
Lydia Maria Child was a well-known American abolitionist, writer, and activist in the women's rights and Native American rights movements.
Produced mostly by the Central Newsreel and Documentary Film Studio of China, documentary films and newsreels were two of the major mass media and communication channels in China from the 1950s through 1970s. They covered all aspects of social activities, though the emphasis was on developments and achievements in the building of a socialist country. In order to reach even broader public audiences, government agents produced and printed the transcripts and shot lists for the films and sent them to cities and rural areas. Few of these printed materials have survived due to the poor quality of the paper upon which they were printed. The material in this collection was found in a cinema company office in Henan province, China.
1854 Born in Warsaw Indiana
1875 Married to Thaddeus L. "Tom" Clarke
1877 Birth of daughter, Laura Clarke
1878 Birth of daughter, Therese Clarke
1884 Divorced from Thaddeus Clarke
1885-1889 Attended Women's Medical College in Chicago
1890 Begins medical practice in Boston.
1904 Thereses Clarke marries Will Dougherty
1917 Died
Dr. Jane Clarke-Owen was born in 1854 in Warsaw, Indiana, where her mother, Dr. Marie Parks Furlong, practiced medicine. She married Thaddeus L. "Tom" Clarke in 1875 and had two daughters with him, Laura (b. 1877) and Therese (b. 1878). After divorcing her husband in 1884, she enrolled at Women's Medical College in Chicago. She studied there from 1885 to 1889. She lived apart from her daughters for much of her schooling and early career. After 1890, Clarke-Owen practiced medicine in Boston and elsewhere on the east coast. In order to support herself and her daughters, she also took on various odd jobs, including writing, working for Charles Hughes's presidential campaign, and operating a convalescent home. She was married briefly for a second time to a railroad worker named Ole Owen. She died in 1917.
Laura Clarke, Dr. Clarke-Owen's oldest daughter, lived on and off with her mother while she worked as a book canvasser, department store products demonstrator, and shop assistant in Boston, Philadelphia, New York City, and Washington D.C. Therese Clarke became an actress under the stage name Marguerite Urquhart and toured with various stock companies in the south and midwest. In 1904 she married a fellow actor, Will Dougherty, known on the stage as William H. Dupont, and converted to Roman Catholicism. She had two sons with Dougherty, Richard and Edwin, before their marriage ended.
1926, Feb. 13 Born in Pullman, WA; son of F. W. Clower (Professor of Economics at Washington State University) and Mary V. Clower
1943 Graduated from Pullman High School; 52 out of 54 on academic honors list
1943 Joined US Army; 31 months of service
1946, Jan. 7 Married Frances Hepburn (of Aberdeen, Scotland) in Wiesbaden, Germany
1946, Summer Returned to the US and enrolled at Washington State University
1948, Apr. F. W. Clower died
1948 Graduated with BA in economics, summa cum laude, from Washington State University; elected Phi Beta Kappa, Phi Kappa Phi scholastic honors; began teaching at Washington State in senior year following death of his father
1948-1949 MA, Economics, Washington State University
1949-1952 Took up residence in Oxford as Rhodes Scholar, where he researched under John R. Hicks; earned Bachelor of Letter, Economics, Oxford University, 1952
1950-1952 Assistant Tutor, New College, Oxford
1952-1957 Assistant Professor of Economics, Washington State University
1954, July (with D. W. Bushaw) "Price Determination in a Stock-Flow Economy," Economometrica
1957 (with D. W. Bushaw) Introduction to Mathematical Economics
1958-1964 Chair, Department of Economics, Northwestern University
1960, Oct. (with M. L. Burstein) "On the Invariance of the Demand for Cash and Other Assets," Review of Economic Studies,
1961-1962 Director, Economic Survey of Liberia
1963-1966 Editorial Board, The American Economic Review
1965 "The Keynesian Counter-Revolution: A Theoretical Appraisal," The Theory of Interest Rates
1966 Growth Without Development, an Economic Survey of Liberia
1967, Dec. "A Reconsideration of the Microfoundations of Monetary Theory," Western Economic Journal
1968-1969 Dean, School of Social Studies and Professor of Economics, University of Essex
1971-1986 Professor of Economics, University of California, Los Angeles
1972 (with J. F. Due) Microeconomics
1973-1980 Managing Editor, Economic Inquiry
1976 Legally separated from Frances (Hepburn) Clower
1978 Honorary Fellow, Brasenose College, Oxford
1979? Married Georgene Thousandfriend
1981-1985 Managing Editor, The American Economic Review
1985, Spring Benedict Distinguished Visiting Professor, Carleton College
1986-2000 Hugh C. Lane Professor of Economic Theory, University of South Carolina
2011, May 2 Died in South Carolina
John M. Clum is a professor of Theater Studies and English at Duke University.
Lara Langer Cohen is an Assistant Professor in the Department of English at Wayne State University in Detroit, MI. She started collecting zines, including trading zines and corresponding with Sarah Dyer, in the early 1990s.
Employee of the Lepetkatta Tea Co., Ltd., in Barbaru, Assam, India. Cole signed his letters "Johnson."
Timeline
1921 Born in Florence, Mississippi
1939-1945 Served in the U.S. Marine Corps in the South Pacific
1947-1961 Illustrator, Staff Artist, and Unit Chief in the Mississippi Highway Department
1961-1981 Illustrator, Staff Artist, and Unit Chief in the Louisiana Highway Department
2016 Passed away in Jackson, Louisiana
Carl V. Corley was a white author and illustrator of a variety of materials such as gay pulp fiction, comic books, physique art, utopian science fiction, Louisiana history (especially on Cajun folkways), and also books on religious themes.
Corley was born in Florence, Mississippi in 1921. He graduated from Florence High School and served in the U.S. Marine Corps in the South Pacific in World War II. After the war, Corley worked as an illustrator for the Highway Department in Mississippi (1947-1961) and Louisiana (1961-1981). In his official capacities, he designed and drew tourist guides, manuals, pamphlets, road maps, and traffic surveys. In the 1970s and early 1980s, he contributed an illustrated strip on Louisiana folklore to the Eunice News. Corley passed away on November 3, 2016, in Jackson, Louisiana.
In the 1950s, Corley made a name for himself as a "physique artist," as he contributed drawings of scantily clad men to fitness magazines--a genre that has been identified by cultural historians as early homoerotica. Between 1966 and 1971, he published twenty-two paper back novels of gay male pulp fiction.
Sabina Allred Allen was born on June 21, 1922, to Robert and Mamie Allred in Mississippi. She married Bobby Arnold in September 1946, shortly after she and Corley ended their relationship. Sabina and Bobby divorced in May 1949, and then she married Dempsey Allen in June 1949. Sabina Allred Allen passed away on December 7, 2008, in Pearl, Mississippi.
Dr. Cornell was a consultant in gastroenterology at the Mount Sinai Medical Center and the retired Chief of the Gastrointestinal Clinic at Mount Sinai Hospital.
Frank Cousins was a Salem (Essex Co.), Mass. writer and photographer, specializing in colonial American architecture.
The Drum and Spear Bookstore was founded in 1968 by SNCC veterans Charlie Cobb, Judy Richardson, Courtland Cox, and Curtis Hayes (later Muhammed), developing out of the civil rights/black power movement in Washington, DC. It specialized in books written by black authors and books on Asian, African, and African American subjects. The founders took the name Afro-American Resources, Inc., and operated Drum and Spear Bookstore, Drum and Spear Press, and the Center for Black Education. The center held classes for community youth and sponsored educational forums and speakers. The Drum and Spear operated from 1371 Fairmont Street, Washington, D.C. NW, until its closure in 1974. Courtland Cox was born in 1941 in New York City. While a Howard University student, Cox became a member of NAG and the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee (SNCC). He worked with SNCC in Mississippi and Lowndes County, Alabama, was the Program Secretary for SNCC in 1962, and was the SNCC representative to the War Crimes Tribunal organized by Bertrand Russell. In 1963 he served as the SNCC representative on the Steering Committee for the March on Washington. In 1973 Cox served as the Secretary General of the Sixth Pan-African Congress and international meeting of African people in Tanzania. He co-owned and managed the Drum and Spear Bookstore and Drum and Spear Press in Washington, D.C. Cox was appointed by President Clinton to serve as the Director of the Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) at the Department of Commerce, a position he held until January 20, 2001. He is currently on the board of the SNCC Legacy Project.
[Adapted from the SNCC Legacy Project website, 2019] Martha Foster Crawford was a Baptist missionary and wife of Tarleton Perry Crawford, from Clinton (Greene Co.), Alabama.
Consumer Reports is a product testing and consumer advocacy nonprofit organization based in Yonkers, N.Y., founded in 1936. Helen Gertrude Canoyer was an author, home economist and educator who served as Dean of the Home Economics colleges at Cornell University and the University of Massachusetts.
Helen Canoyer was born in Minnesota in 1903. She attended the University of Minnesota (BS, MS, PhD in 1940, the first woman to graduate with a doctorate at the university) and taught economics and marketing there until World War II. During the war Canoyer served with the War Production Board, Department of Commerce and with the Office of Alien Property Custodian. She became Dean of the College of Home Economics at Cornell University in 1954 and held the position until she retired in 1968; she was the first woman faculty member in the Graduate School of Business and Public Administration at Cornell. In 1962 President Kennedy appointed Canoyer to lead the Consumer Advisory Council. In 1971 Canoyer was named Dean of the College of Home Economics at the University of Massachusetts. Canoyer died in San Francisco in 1984.
Consumer Reports is a product testing and consumer advocacy nonprofit organization based in Yonkers, N.Y., founded in 1936. Abraham J. Isserman was a labor lawyer, counsel to the American Civil Liberties Union during the 1930s, and one of the original members of the Board of Directors of Consumers Union.
Abraham J. Isserman was born in 1900 in Belgium. Isserman served with the Royal Fusiliers during World War I. Isserman served as Counsel to ACLU 1930s-1941 and as defense counsel for strikers at Consumers Research who were fired during the 1935 strike. Isserman was a member of the Consumers Union Board of Directors from 1936. Isserman was part of the defense counsel during the Foley Square trial of 1949, in the course of which Isserman was disbarred in 1952, and later reinstated in 1961. Isserman was a partner in the Isserman and Isserman legal firm. Isserman died in 1988 in New York.
John J. Crittenden (1787-1863) was a Kentucky lawyer and statesman from Frankfort (Franklin Co). During his career he served as a Kentucky legislator, as Kentucky governor, as a member of both houses of the U.S. Congress, and as a Cabinet officer. His political career spans the antebellum and early Civil War periods and he was involved in a futile attempt to prevent the onset of the Civil War through a political settlement in 1861.
Consumer Reports is a product testing and consumer advocacy nonprofit organization based in Yonkers, N.Y., founded in 1936. Sylvia Lane was an economist who served on the Board of Directors of Consumers Union 1975-1977.
Sylvia Lane was born in 1916 in New York. She graduated from Berkeley (AB, 1934; MA 1936), Columbia (MA, 1937) and the University of Southern California (PhD, 1957) with degrees in economics and finance. Lane held a number of Professorships: Assistant Professor, University of Southern California (1947-1960); Associate Professor of Economics and Finance, San Diego State University (1961-1965); Associate Professor of Finance and Associate Director of the Center for Economic Education, California State University at Fullerton (1965-1969); Chairman, Department of Finance, California State University at Fullerton (1967-1969); Professor of Agricultural Economics, University of California, Davis (1969-1976). She died in 2013.
Consumer Reports is a product testing and consumer advocacy nonprofit organization based in Yonkers, N.Y., founded in 1936. James E. Mendenhall was a home economist and magazine editor who served as Education Director of Consumers Union (1959-1969).
James Edgar Mendenhall was born in 1903 in Indiana. He attended Kansas State Teachers College (now Emporia State University; BS 1924) and Columbia University (PhD 1930). Mendenhall was editor of Building America magazine in the 1930s and became Education Director for the Institute for Consumer Education at Stephens College. During World War II he served as head of Educational Services for the U.S. Office of Price Administration. From 1959 until his retirement in 1969 Mendenhall was Education Director for Consumers Union. In 1968 he as named to the Board of Directors of the New York State Council on Economic Education and was appointed Assistant Professor of Home Economics at Queens College in 1970. Mendenhall died in 1971.
Consumer Reports is a product testing and consumer advocacy nonprofit organization based in Yonkers, N.Y., founded in 1936. Irving Michelson was a chemist who directed the Special Projects and Public Service Projects departments during the 1950s-1960s.
Irving Michelson was born in 1911 in New York. He graduated from Brooklyn College (BS chemistry, 1939). Michelson worked at the U.S. Naval Observatory (1930-1936) and the U.S. Customs Laboratory (1936-1947) before joining Consumers Union. Michelson served as head of the Chemical Division (1947-1952) and Special Projects Division (1952-1957) before being named Assistant Director of the Technical Division in 1957. In 1959 Michelson became Director of the Public Service Projects Division where he remained until he left Consumers Union in 1964 to become Director of Scientific Research at the America Safety Equipment Corporation. Michelson retired in 1976 and died in 2013.
Consumer Reports is a product testing and consumer advocacy nonprofit organization based in Yonkers, N.Y., founded in 1936. The National Association of Consumers was a consumer advocacy and lobbying organization founded in 1946 and active until around 1957-1958.
The National Association of Consumers (NAC) formed in 1946 as a private-sector initiative to continue the consumer advocacy work of the Office of Price Administration's Consumers Advisory Committee when the government agency was disbanded after World War II. Helen Hall, vice chairperson of the Consumer Advisory Committee and director of the Henry Street Settlement, was named president of the NAC. Membership in the organization consisted of both individuals and local chapters, made up of existing consumer organizations as well as newly formed organizations. Originally headquartered in Washington, D.C., the NAC moved to the Henry Street Settlement in New York and later to Amherst, Mass. The NAC was a registered lobbyist that advocated for a wide range of issues, including food standards, product labeling, rent control, milk prices as well as for the creation of Cabinet-level consumer protection agencies. The NAC's status as a lobby eventually restricted its ability to secure private-sector funding and its viability declined through the 1950s. In 1955 the NAC reorganized as an educational corporation and pursued a merger with the Council on Consumer Information, which never materialized. Dr. William Haller, an economist at Dickinson College, took on the role of executive secretary in 1955, but NAC operations stalled and the organization was effectively inactive around 1957.
Source: Consumer Reports, historical note on National Association of Consumers, Consumer Reports Archives records.
Consumer Reports is a product testing and consumer advocacy nonprofit organization based in Yonkers, N.Y., founded in 1936. Eileen Nic was a consultant to Consumer Reports on health and environmental issues and an advocate for hazardous chemical and pesticide control.
Eileen Nic was born in Philadelphia in 1951. Nic graduated from Temple University and Columbia University (MA, Sociology) and worked with the Philadelphia Department of Health. Nic served as consultant for pollution toxicity, pesticides and hazardous chemicals with the Sierra Club, Natural Resources Defense Council, and Consumers Union. Nic served as the International Organization of Consumers Union (IOCU) representative to the United Nations. Nic died in New York in 1993.
Source: New York Times obituary, June 26, 1993.
Consumer Reports is a product testing and consumer advocacy nonprofit organization based in Yonkers, N.Y., founded in 1936. Edward Reich was an educator and consumer advocate who served as director of the New York City Board of Education's Consumer Education Office and as Vice President (1958-1961) and Treasurer (1961-1973) of Consumers Union.
Edward Reich was born in 1903 in New York. He was educated at City College of New York (AB 1922, MSBA 1923), Columbia University (MA 1924), and New York University (PhD approximately 1927). He served on the Consumers Union Board of Directors (1943-1947) and held positions of Vice President (1958-1961) and Treasurer (1961-1972) with the organization. Reich was co-founder of the Consumer Education Association and editor of its journal during the early 1940s. Reich served as Director (1942-1947) and Chairman (1947-1961) of the New York City Board of Education's Consumer Education Office. He was author of two books: Consumer Goods: How to Know Them and Use Them (with Carlton John Siegler, 1937), and Selling to the Consumer (1949). Edward Reich retired from Consumers Union in 1973 and died in 1983 in New York.
Consumer Reports is a product testing and consumer advocacy nonprofit organization based in Yonkers, N.Y., founded in 1936. Frances Warne was an author, consumer advocate and instructor in home economics and consumer education; co-founder of Consumers Union.
Frances Lee Corbett was born in West Virginia in 1898 and raised in the Washington, D.C. area. She obtained an A.B. from Cornell University and a M.S. degree from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. She married Colston E. Warne in 1920 and the two formed part of the group that founded Consumers Union in 1936. Frances Warne served as an instructor in consumer economics, consumer education and home economics at the University of Massachusetts. She was author of "Wise Buymanship" a manual of consumer education produced by Consumers Union for the YWCA. Frances Warne died in Massachusetts in 1982.
Consumer Reports is a product testing and consumer advocacy nonprofit organization based in Yonkers, N.Y., founded in 1936. The Washington Office opened in 1972 focused on representation of consumer interests before government institutions.
Established in 1968 to advocate for interests of low-income, women and other underrepresented people and communities. In the 1980s it narrowed its scope of activities to focus on poverty issues.
Statesman, author, clergyman, diplomat, and educator, of Richmond, Va.
Mark Danner is a writer, journalist, and professor at the University of California at Berkeley. His work covers politics and foreign affairs, with a focus on war and conflict.
1930, Oct. 23 Born in Brooklyn, NY
1950 BS, Brooklyn College
1951-1952 Instructor in Physiological Chemistry, University of Pennsylvania
1953-1955 US Army service
1955 MBA, City College
1955-1958 Instructor in Economics, University of Pennsylvania
1958-1960 Assistant Professor of Economics, Rutgers University
1959 PhD, University of Pennsylvania
1960-1961 Assistant Director, Economics Division, Continental Oil Company
1960 Theories of Aggregate Income Distribution
1961-1963 Assistant Professor of Economics, University of Pennsylvania
1963-1966 Associate Professor of Economics, University of Pennsylvania
1964-1966 Consultant, Resources for the Future
1966-1987 Professor of Economics, Rutgers University
1966-1975 Associate Director of Bureau of Economic Research, Rutgers University
1972 Money and the Real World
1973 Ford Foundation Energy Policy Project
1975-1978 Chair, New Brunswick Department of Economics and Allied Sciences and Director, Bureau of Economic Research, Rutgers University
1978- Founder and Editor (with Sidney Weintraub) of Journal of Post Keynesian Economics
1981 International Money and the Real World
1987-2001 Distinguished Professor of Economics, University of Tennessee, Knoxville
1987 (with son Greg Davidson) Economics for a Civilized Society
1991 Controversies in Post Keynesian Economics
1991 (with J. Kregel) Economic Problems of the 1990s: Less Developed Countries, Europe and the United States
2007 John Maynard Keynes
Biographical Note: Griff Davis (1923-1993)
Griffith J. Davis, known as "Griff," was born in Atlanta, Georgia on April 18, 1923. He was introduced to photography during high school. After serving in World War II, Davis returned to Atlanta where his photojournalism career flourished as he worked while at Morehouse College for the Atlanta Daily World, Time, and Ebony, who authorized him to do a photojournalism spread on his sister's high school, the Palmer Memorial Institute, a private boarding school in North Carolina.
Griff Davis' journalistic career introduced him to many political and cultural players of the time, including Langston Hughes, who was one of his earliest mentors. Davis received his M.A. in journalism from Columbia in 1949, the only Black student in the program. As a journalist for the Black Star photo agency, New York Times, Ebony, and many other publications, Davis traveled in the United States, Africa, and Europe during the forties and fifties. In 1952 the Republic of Liberia sponsored Davis' one-man show "Liberia, 1952," at the American Museum of Natural History, and in the years that followed he produced three documentary films, including one narrated by the then-unknown actor Sidney Poitier.
In 1952 Davis joined the U.S. Foreign Service, spending most of his time advancing Truman's Point Four program for foreign aid (later USAID), chiefly in Liberia. He also served in Tunisia and Nigeria, and retired in 1985. In 1993, Morehouse College awarded Davis the Bennie Trailblazer Award, named for his former mentor and president of Morehouse, Benjamin Mays, for personal and professional achievements. Griff Davis passed away in 1993 in Atlanta, Georgia at the age of 70.
[Adapted from Wikipedia website biography and "Still Here: The Griffith J. Davis Photographs and Archive in Context," University of South Florida exhibit website, introduction by Dorothy Davis, viewed July 1, 2021]
Biographical Note: Charles Alston (1907-1977) 
Charles Alston was an African American painter, sculptor, illustrator, muralist and teacher based in the New York City neighborhood of Harlem. He was active in the Harlem Renaissance. Alston was born in 1907 in Charlotte, N.C. His father had been born into slavery in 1851 in Pittsboro, North Carolina. After the Civil War, Alston gained an education and graduated from St. Augustine's College in Raleigh. Through marriage, he became close to artist Romare Bearden and his family. Alston designed and painted murals at the Harlem Hospital and the Golden State Mutual Life Insurance Building. He passed away in 1977.
[Source: Adapted from Wikipedia website biography, viewed July 1, 2021]
Biographical Note: Langston Hughes (1902-1967)
Langston Hughes (1902-1967), who claimed Paul Lawrence Dunbar, Carl Sandburg, and Walt Whitman as his primary influences, is particularly known for his insightful portrayals of Black life in America from the 1920s through the 1960s. Hughes wrote novels, short stories, plays, and poetry, and is also known for his engagement with the world of jazz and the influence it had on his writing, as in his book-length poem "Montage of a Dream Deferred" (Holt, 1951). His life and work were enormously important in shaping the artistic contributions of the 1920s Harlem Renaissance.
[Source: Adapted from Wikipedia website biography, viewed July 1, 2021]
Biographical Note: Hale Woodruff (1900-1980)
Hale Aspacio Woodruff (1900-1980) was an American-born painter, draftsman, printer, and educator who is probably best known for his murals, especially the Amistad Mutiny Murals (1939) at the Savery Library at Talladega College in Alabama. Woodruff studied in France from 1927 to 1931, and was greatly influenced by African art and cubism. However, upon his return to the United States he concentrated on social issues, including scenes of Southern poverty and depictions of lynchings.
[Source: Adapted from Wikipedia website entry, viewed July 1, 2021]
The founder of Palmer Memorial Institute, Charlotte Hawkins Brown (1883–1961) was born in Henderson, North Carolina, and raised and educated in Massachusetts. Brown named the Alice Freeman Palmer Memorial Institute (PMI) in Sedalia, North Carolina, after her mentor and benefactor, the second woman president of Wellesley College. Brown raised funds to expand campus facilities and worked to strengthen PMI's artistic and scholarly offerings, and through her efforts, the school evolved from an agricultural and manual training facility to a fully accredited, nationally recognized African American preparatory school for junior and senior high school students. In 1987 the Charlotte Hawkins Brown Museum opened on the PMI grounds as North Carolina's first African American state historic site.
[Source: Adapted from the National Park Service website on a traveling exhibition of Griff Davis photographs of PMI, viewed July 1, 2021]
The close friendship between Griff Davis and Harlem Renaissance author Langston Hughes (1902-1967) began in Davis' college days and lasted for decades. They collaborated on journalistic projects, and Davis often accompanied Hughes as his official photographer.
Charles Alston and Hale Woodruff were 20th century African American artists. Although they were known for their commissioned mural works, they also created paintings, sculptures, and other artworks.
In the late 1940s Alston and Woodruff began work on a mural project commissioned by Golden State Mutual Life Insurance Company, which asked the artists to illustrate African American contributions to the settling of California. Alston worked with Woodruff on the murals in a large studio space in New York; they used ladders to reach the upper parts of the canvas. The mural consists of two panels: "Exploration and Colonization" by Alston and "Settlement and Development" by Woodruff. The murals were unveiled in 1949 at the Golden State Mutual Headquarters in Los Angeles.
[Source: adapted from Wikipedia page on Charles Alston, viewed July 1, 2021]
The Decentralization Conference-Seminars are funded by a grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF) and administered through the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER). The CEME, Conferences on Econometrics and Mathematical Economics, was created to form several series of standing national seminars on various topics. Both the General Equilibrium and Decentralization conference series were formed out of the mathematical economics side of the organization. The Decentralization Conference was first coordinated by Roy Radner. The conference is traditionally held once a year, but occasionally more often. The first Decentralization Conference was held at UC Berkeley in 1971.
The term decentralization refers to the starting point of many of the problems addressed in the series: the necessary information starts in a decentralized state. Much of the conference series has focused on questions of design and of various systems for production and allocation of goods, services, and information. These range from understanding voting systems to markets to the organization of the internal lines of communication and assignment of tasks within a firm. Topics covered at past conferences include: mechanism and market design, recourse allocation, matching, team theory, contracting, organization of the firm, communication, computation, and processing of information. Currently, the Decentralization conference series includes the design of any institutions, contracts, organizations, or relationships in which information and/or incentives play a role.
Paul and Jeanne Delannoy were residents of 24 Avenue de la R̀̀̀̀è̀̀public, Paris, where they owned a pharmacy. Both were pharmacists.
1897, Dec. 21 Born Davidson County, N.C.
1918 A.B. Trinity College (now Duke University)
1921 LL.B. Trinity College
1921-1926 Practiced law in Lexington, N.C.
1922-1934 Member, Lexington Board of School Commissioners
1926-1946 Member, McCrary and DeLapp law firm
1927, July Married Rose Sexton of Denton, N.C.
1928-1930 Davidson County attorney
1942-1950 Chair, North Carolina State Republican Party
1946-1950 Davison County attorney
1946-1952 Practiced law independently in Lexington, N.C.
1950-1964 Legal counsel for the North Carolina Republican Party
1951-1952 North Carolina State Chairman of Dwight D. Eisenhower's campaign for the presidency
1952-1976 Partner, Lexington law firm that maintained a general and trial practice under various names: DeLapp and Ward, 1952-1966; DeLapp, Ward, and Hedrick, 1966-1972; DeLapp and Hedrick, 1972-1974; DeLapp, Hedrick and Harp, 1974-1975; DeLapp, Hedrick, Harp, and Smith, 1975-1976.
1965-1970 Trustee, Davidson County Community College
1967-1974 Davidson County attorney
1976, Aug. 9 Died, Winston-Salem, N.C.
1983 Named posthumously to the North Carolina GOP Hall of fame
Member of the American, North Carolina, and Davidson County Bar Associations and the Lexington Rotary Club. Member and Elder in the First Evangelical and Reformed Church (later United Church of Christ) in Lexington. Member of the Kiwanis Club.
The Democratic Digest was the small-format magazine of the Democratic National Committee, with its offices based in Washington, D.C. The monthly issues chiefly consisted of editorial columns, election news, political cartoons and satire, and many reprinted articles and opinion pieces from pro-Democratic U.S. newspapers. Its predecessor, also titled the Democratic Digest, was published by the Women's Division of the Democratic National Committee from 1933-1953. The Democratic Digest was continued in 1961 as The Democrat.
The chief editor during the time represented by this collection was Clayton Fritchey (1904-2001), a journalist who was also assistant to the Secretary of Defense and assistant to President Trumann; he also had close relations with Adlai Stevenson in various capacities. The managing editor was Samuel C. Brightman (1911-1992), noted Washington correspondent and Democratic Party public relations manager. Serving as senior editor was Philip Stern (1926-1992), also director of research for the Democratic National Committee (1953-1956); and deputy assistant to the Secretary of State for Public Affairs (1961-1962). The Democratic Digest's cover artist was Leo Hershfield, noted illustrator and courtroom artist; many pieces of his original artwork are in the Art and Layout Series.
The Dismal Swamp Land Company was founded by George Washington, Thomas Walker, William Nelson, Thomas Nelson, Robert Burwell, John Robinson, Fielding Lewis, Anthony Bacon, John Lyme, Samuel Gist, Robert Tucker, and William Waters. The number of shareholders grew as original owners divested their interests and family inherited stakes. The Company operated between 1763-1879 and was originally interested in agricultural pursuits (including rice cultivation), but the sale of cypress shingles and staves proved more profitable. The company went under as a result of post-Civil War economic conditions and concurrent decrease in the shingle trade.
Dorsey and Whitney LLP is a business law firm which was founded in 1912 in Minneapolis, MN, where its headquarters are still located, to provide legal counseling to the First Bank of Minneapolis. A team of three lawyers, Mark S. Sullivan, Joshua Colangelo-Bryan and Christopher G. Karagheuzoff, from the New York Office of the firm took on the cases of Bahraini Guantánamo detainees pro bono in 2004. These lawyers represented the Bahraini detainees until the release and repatriation of all of them by 2008. Sullivan, Colangelo-Bryan and Karagheuzoff did not only follow the legal cases of their Bahraini detainees but also got involved in public activities in order to raise awareness about the human rights situation and abuses at the military detention center in Guantánamo Naval Base. They also initiated negotiations with Bahraini diplomats and officials regarding the release and repatriation of their clients. The team of Dorsey & Whitney lawyers also paid a visit to Bahrain to meet with the relatives of their clients.
Jumah Al-Dossari is a joint citizen of Bahrain and Saudi Arabia detained in December 2001 in Pakistan, kept under arrest by the U.S. military in Kandahar, Afghanistan, and transferred to Camp Delta military detention center in January 2002 and eventually released without facing any charges in 2007. He suffered severe psychological and physical abuse both in Kandahar and Guantánamo. Al-Dossari attempted suicide thirteen times and went on hunger strikes at least twice while under extra-judicial detention at Guantánamo. His case became an emblematic example of the abuse and torture at Guantánamo naval base and detrimental consequences of long term solitary confinement. Al-Dossari was represented by the Dorsey & Whitney LLP lawyer Joshua Colangelo-Bryan and he was repatriated to Saudi Arabia in 2007.
Joshua Colangelo-Bryan is a Senior Attorney at the New York office of Dorsey & Whitney LLP. He gained his law degree in 1999 from the University of Washington School Of Law. Prior to working for Dorsey, Joshua served with the United Nations Mission in Kosovo, where he participated in the prosecution of criminal cases involving war crimes and terrorism. He also has participated in post-conflict humanitarian aid work in the Balkans. He practices in the areas of complex civil litigation, employment law, and securities fraud. He also represents individuals and entities before federal and state agencies. He devotes a substantial portion of his practice to pro bono cases, including the representation of Guantánamo Bay detainees.
1855 April 27 Benjamin Newton Duke is born to Washington and Artelia Roney Duke in Orange County, North Carolina.
1858 Benjamin's mother Artelia and half-brother Sidney Taylor Duke die of typhoid fever.
1871 Benjamin and his sister Mary enroll in New Garden School (later Guilford College), near Greensboro, North Carolina.
1874 Washington Duke moves his family to Durham proper.
1877 February 21 Benjamin marries Sarah Pearson Angier of Durham, North Carolina.
1878 W. Duke, Sons and Company is established. Benjamin is a director of the new company, along with brother James B. Duke, father Washington Duke, George W. Watts, and Richard Wright.
1882 or 1883? October 3 George Washington Duke, Benjamin and Sarah's first child, is born.
1884 December 8 Angier Buchanan Duke, Benjamin and Sarah's second child, is born.
1885 September? George Washington Duke dies at age 2 or 3.
1887 November 16 Mary Lillian Duke (later Mary Duke Biddle), Benjamin and Sarah's third child, is born.
1889 Benjamin is elected to the Board of Trustees of Trinity College, Randolph County, North Carolina.
1890 Benjamin becomes a director of the newly-formed American Tobacco Company.
1891? Benjamin becomes a director of the Oxford Orphan Asylum in Oxford, North Carolina.
1892 Erwin Cotton Mills is established, with Benjamin N. Duke as president and William A. Erwin as manager.
1893 April 6 Mary E. Lyon (Mary Duke Lyon), Benjamin's sister, dies at age 39 in New York.
1893-1922 Benjamin becomes president of The Fidelity Bank of Durham, North Carolina.
1898 Benjamin serves as a delegate to the General Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, South, in Baltimore, Maryland.
1899? Benjamin becomes president of the Cape Fear and Northern Railway
1901 Benjamin resigns from the board of directors of the Oxford Orphan Asylum.
Benjamin and Sarah purchase their first home in New York, NY. The family divides time between New York and Durham.
1902 Benjamin becomes treasurer of the American Tobacco Company
1904 Benjamin resigns as treasurer of the American Tobacco Company
1905 May 8 Washington Duke dies at age 84 in Durham, North Carolina.
1905 June Angier B. Duke graduates from Trinity College, Durham, North Carolina.
Southern Power Company (later Duke Power Company) is established by Benjamin N. and brother James B. Duke in Charlotte, North Carolina.
1906 Benjamin becomes president of the Durham and Southern Railway.
1907 May Benjamin resigns as a director of the American Tobacco Company.
1907 June Mary L. Duke graduates from Trinity College, Durham, North Carolina.
1908-1910 Benjamin and Sarah's "Four Acres" house is built in Durham, North Carolina.
1913 April Richard B. Arrington, Benjamin and James's private secretary and financial agent dies in White Plains, New York.
Alexander H. Sands, Jr., is hired as Benjamin and James's private secretary and financial agent in New York, New York.
1915 Angier B. Duke marries Cordelia Biddle.
Mary L. Duke marries Anthony J. Drexel Biddle, Jr.
1922 Benjamin resigns from the presidency of The Fidelity Bank of Durham, NC
1923 September 3 Angier B. Duke dies in a boating accident on Long Island Sound at the age of 38.
1925 Benjamin and Sarah establish the Angier B. Duke Memorial to support scholarship at Duke University.
1925 October 10 James B. Duke dies at the age of 68 in New York, New York.
1927 Benjamin resigns from the presidency of Erwin Cotton Mills
Benjamin resigns from the presidency of Durham and Southern Railway
1927 January 8 Benjamin dies in New York, New York at the age of 71 and is interred in the Duke family mausoleum in Maplewood Cemetery, Durham, North Carolina
1936 The remains of Benjamin, James B. Duke, and Washington Duke are removed from Maplewood Cemetery to the Memorial Chapel of Duke University Chapel.
1936 September 3 Sarah P. Duke dies at the age of 80 in Blowing Rock, North Carolina.
Benjamin Newton Duke (1855-1929) was a tobacco manufacturer, industrialist, and philanthropist of Durham, NC and New York, NY and a trustee and major benefactor of Trinity College (later Duke University). He was the son of Washington Duke, older brother of James B. Duke, husband of Sarah Pearson Angier Duke, and father of Angier Buchanan Duke and Mary Duke Biddle.
Benjamin Newton Duke held a leadership position in several North Carolina and New York businesses, including the American Tobacco Company, W. Duke, Sons & Company, Erwin Cotton Mills, Fidelity Bank of Durham, Citizens' National Bank of Durham, Trinity Land Company, Durham Realty Corporation, Durham and Southern Railway Company, and Southern Power Company. Along with James B. Duke and their partner, George Washington Watts, Benjamin Duke held substantial investments in a variety of enterprises throughout the United States.
Duke was also the primary agent for the Duke family's philanthropic activities from the late 1880s until his death.
Born on November 22, 1912, Doris Duke was the only child of James Buchanan (J.B.) Duke, a founder of the American Tobacco Company and Duke Energy Company and a benefactor of Duke University, and Nanaline Holt Duke. Inheriting a bulk of her father's estate in 1925, which included Duke Farms in New Jersey, Rough Point in Newport, R.I., and a mansion in New York City, Doris was soon dubbed by the press as "the richest girl in the world." Although Doris did her best to live a private life, she carried on the Duke family's pattern of philanthropy by contributing to a number of public causes such as the arts, historic preservation, and the environment. Doris Duke died in October 1993 at the age of 80. In her will she left the majority of her estate to the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation.
Allyson Kay Duncan (b. 1951) was born in Durham and attended Hampton University (BA, 1972) and Duke University (JD, 1975). She worked for the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (1978-1986) and was a professor at NC Central School of Law (1986-1990) before being appointed by Gov. James Martin as Associate Judge to the North Carolina Court of Appeals in 1990. After losing the next election, she was appointed to the North Carolina Utilities Commission in 1991, where she worked until joining the Kilpatrick Stockton firm in 1998. In 2003 she was elected as the first African American president of the North Carolina Bar Association, and was also nominated by President George W. Bush to fill a vacancy on the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals. She was confirmed by the U.S. Senate in July 2003 and inducted to the court in August 2003, where she continues to serve (as of 2018). Duncan was the first African American woman to join the Fourth Circuit.
The Durham Central Labor Union is the umbrella organization for Durham labor unions.
The records came from the upper floor of the St. Luke Apostolic Church of Jesus Christ building, formerly Durham's Central Union Hall (or Labor Temple).
The Durham Savoyards is a Durham (Durham Co.), N.C., production company for Gilbert and Sullivan operettas, founded in 1963 and incorporated in 1964.
Crystal Eastman (June 25, 1881-July 8, 1928) was an American lawyer, antimilitarist, feminist, socialist, and journalist. She attended Vassar College and Columbia University, and obtained her law degree from New York University (1907). Her first job as an attorney was to investigate labor conditions for the Russell Sage Foundation. Her pioneering report, Work Accidents and the Law (1910), led New York Governor Charles Evans Hughes to appoint her the first woman on New York State's Commission on Employers' Liability and Causes of Industrial Accidents, Unemployment and Lack of Farm Labor. As a member of that commission, Eastman drafted the country's first workers' compensation law. During Woodrow Wilson's administration, Eastman became investigating attorney for the United States Commission on Industrial Relations. Meanwhile, Eastman also struggled to further women's rights--first suffrage and later equal rights--as co-author of the first Equal Rights Amendment. During World War I, she was a leader of the peace movement, working with Carrie Chapman Catt to organize the Carnegie Hall meeting that led to the founding of the Woman's Peace Party of New York--later renamed the Women's International League of Peace and Freedom--the oldest women's peace organization. Eastman became Executive Secretary of the Women's Peace Party. A leading advocate for civil liberties and the rights of conscientious objectors during World War I, she joined Norman Thomas and Roger Baldwin in founding the American Civil Liberties Union.
In 1910 Eastman married Wallace Benedict; the marriage ended in divorce in 1915. As a statement of financial and personal independence, Eastman refused to accept alimony, stating that to accept her former husband's money would be to betray herself as both a woman and a feminist. In 1916 Eastman married the British editor and antiwar activist Walter Fuller; the couple had two children, Jeffrey and Annis.
Sources: National Women's Hall of Fame website, https://www.womenofthehall.org/inductee/crystal-eastman/ Vassar Encyclopedia, http://vcencyclopedia.vassar.edu/alumni/crystal-eastman.html Wikipedia entry for Crystal Eastman, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crystal_Eastman
Eclipse Enterprises, also known as Eclipse Comics, was an independent American comic book publisher during the 1980s and early 1990s. In 1978, it published the first graphic novel intended for specialty comic stores; it also was one of the first companies to offer royalties and creator ownership of rights. It was also one of the early comic book publishers to produce trading cards.
Eclipse Enterprises was founded by brothers Jan and Dean Mullaney in 1977; it eventually settled and operated in Sonoma County, California. Due to the controversial products it distributed (which led to several lawsuits), as well as a devastating flood in 1986, Eclipse suffered ongoing financial hardships and eventually ceased operations in 1994. The owners filed for bankruptcy in 1995.
The wholesale firm of Effinger & Aiken (partners Charles H. Effinger and George B. Aiken), located in Baltimore, Maryland, supplied consumer goods to hundreds of hardware, grocery, drug, and general goods stores in cities and rural towns in Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida during the early 1900s. Several traveling salesmen represented the firm; and goods such as cutlery, crockery, glassware, wooden items, hardware, tools, rope, saddles, guns and ammunition, fishing and hunting equipment, wagon wheels and axels, farm equipment, and building materials generally were shipped by railroad freight.
The firm's beginning and ending dates of operation are unclear. However, the R.L. Polk & Co's Baltimore City Directory for 1899 lists Effinger as a partner in Ramsey & Effinger, a firm specializing in china, glassware, and house furnishing goods; and the Federal Reporter, Volume 184 indicates that on February 9, 1909, the partnership of Effinger & Aiken and each partner individually were adjudicated bankrupts.
J. Claude Evans was born in Anderson, SC, in 1917. He graduated from Wofford College and Duke Divinity School (1940) and became an ordained member of the South Carolina Methodist Conference. He served pastorates in Columbia, Clemson, and Walhalla, was a Navy chaplain in 1944-45, edited the S.C. Methodist Advocate from 1952-57 (for which he wrote many editorials on issues like race and McCarthyism), and served as the university chaplain at SMU from 1957-82. In retirement he wrote regular columns for the Waynesville, N.C., Mountaineer, primarily on social justice issues. He also had a substantial practice in family counseling.
His papers consist of large numbers of sermons, articles (he wrote regularly for the Christian Century in the 1960s and 1970s), and columns as well as some correspondence. He began speaking out on racial justice in 1942 with a sermon attacking the biological idea of race that got him barred from the pulpit of Washington Street Methodist Church in Columbia. In the early 1970s, before Roe v. Wade, he was active in the Clergy Consultation on Abortion, an abortion referral network, and he wrote a number of sermons and columns on gay rights, drawing on the experience of having a lesbian sister.
Maxilla Evans was born in 1917 in Palmyra, North Carolina. She first attended the N.C. Women's College in Greensboro, but graduated from N.C. State University in 1940 with a degree in landscape architecture. She and J. Claude Evans married that year and had four children. Maxilla was an active birder and gardener, and raised prize-winning canaries along with collecting rare and unique Appalachian plants. She help found and create the Corneille Bryan Native Garden at Lake Junaluska, North Carolina. The couple later relocated to Asheville. J. Claude Evans died on September 7, 2007. Maxilla Evans died on December 25, 2007.
Sara Evans was born in South Carolina in 1943, and lived in Texas before receiving her bachelor's degree in history from Duke University in 1966. She earned a master's degree in political science from the University of Chicago, and graduated from the University of North Carolina with a doctorate in American history. She spent her academic career teaching and researching women's history at the University of Minnesota from 1976 until her retirement in 2008. Her books include Personal Politics: The Roots of Women's Liberation in the Civil Rights Movement and the New Left (1979, 1980); Free Spaces: The Sources of Democratic Change in America (1986); Born for Liberty: A History of American Women (1989); Wage Justice: Comparable Worth and the Paradox of Technocratic Reform (1989); Journeys That Opened Up the World: Women, Student Christian Movements (2003), and Tidal Wave: How Women Changed America at Century's End (2003).
1925 Aug. 23 Born,
1939-1942 Attended Hackley School, Tarrytown, N.Y.
1943 Attended Staunton Military Academy, Staunton, Va.
1943-1946, 1950 Military service, U.S. Army Air Force
1944 Aviation Cadet, U.S. Army Air Force
1946-1948 Student, Journalism major, Kent State University, Kent, Oh.
1948-1950 Merchandising, Young &amp; Rubicam
1950-1951 Advertising Promotion Manager, Sports Afield magazine
1950-1956 Advertising Sales, Woman's Home Companion magazine
1952-1953 Free-lance artist and writer, Flying magazine
1953 Advertising assistant, Hunting &amp; Fishing magazine
1956 Advertising assistant, General Outdoor Advertising
1956-1960 Advertising Sales, American Home magazine
1959 Publication of How Were Things at the Office? 
1960-1963 Self-employed, W.H. Everett Co.
1961 Produced humorous image series, So You're in the Ad Game?, Marketing magazine
1962-1970 Produced humorous image series, What They're (Really) Saying, Advertising Age
1963-1965 Advertising Sales Development, Time magazine
1965-circa 1985 Advertising Sales, Progressive Grocer magazine
2010 Aug. 30 Died, Ridgefield, Conn.
Wife of Viscount Feilding, 9th Earl of Denbigh.
1899, May 22 Born in San Francisco, CA
1916 Graduated from Princeton High School (NJ)
1920 AB, Political Science, Swarthmore College (Phi Beta Kappa)
1922 AM, Princeton University
1924 AM, Harvard University
1926 PhD, Economics, Princeton University
1928-1934 Assistant Professor and Professor of Economics, Princeton University
1929, Jan. 14 Married Elizabeth Pollard (died 1977)
1934 Member, Commission on Cuban Affairs, organized by Foreign Policy Association
1934-1948 Associate Professor and Professor of Economics, Haverford College
1937-1938 Guggenheim Fellowship (research on banking in Great Britain)
1939 Economist, Export-Import Bank
1940 Economic advisor, Central Bank of Ecuador
1943-1946 Economic advisor, Lend-Lease Administration and Department of State; 10 months in India
1948-1967 Professor of Economics, Northwestern University
1950, Summer Advisor, International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1951 Advisor to Department of State, Division of German Affairs, and member of American delegation to London for Preliminary Conference on German Debts
1978, Apr. Married Elizabeth Miller Stabler (died 1985)
1991 Died in Hanover, NH
Business executive, photographer and author based in New York; considered a pioneer in the field of public relations. Born 1921; graduated City College of New York; co-founded Ruder & Finn 1948 with William Ruder; remaned Ruder-Finn 1989; 2006 winner of John W. Hill Award; PR Week Hall of Fame 2015
1887, Sept. 23 Born, Frederick County, Md.
1908 B.S. in horticulture, Maryland Agricultural College (now the University of Maryland), College Park, Md.
1908,1910 Commandant and instructor, Bethel Military Academy, Warrenton, Va.
1910-1912 Assistant Horticulturist at the West Virginia Experiment Station, Morgantown, W. Va.
1912 Professor, Georgia State College of Agriculture (later incorporated into the University of Georgia), Athens.
1912-1917 Extension Horticulturist, Georgia State College.
1914-1917 Co-editor, Southern Fruit Grower.
1917-1919 U. S. Army Field Artillery Officer, serving primarily in France.
Taught horticulture in the College of Agriculture, A.E.F. University, Beaune, France.
1918 Graduate, U. S. School of Artillery Fire.
1920, June 15 Married Mary Valentine Moss.
1920-1922 Manager, Planters Products Company, Ga.
Horticulturist and marketing agent, Atlanta, Birmingham and Atlantic Railway Company.
1923-1925 County Agricultural Agent, Clarke County, Ga.
1926-1927 State Agent in Marketing for Georgia.
1928-1951 Organized and headed the Department of Agricultural Economics and Rural Sociology, University of Georgia.
1931 M.S. in agriculture, University of Georgia.
1942-1944 Education officer and director of Troop School, U.S. Army Air Force, Lowry Field, Colo.
1944-1945 Member, Governor's Agricultural &amp; Industrial Development Board, Ga.
1947-1948 Member, City Council, Athens, Ga.
1951 Retired from University of Georgia faculty.
1956, May 28 Died.
Wrote bulletins, government reports, addresses, and many articles for Southern Ruralist, Southern Agriculturist, The Georgia Democrat, Country Gentleman, and The Progressive Farmer.
Azel Hull Fish was appointed pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Nyack, NY, in 1911. He was also a college professor during the 1930s at Tusculum College in Tennessee. He and his wife, Alice Graham, had one son. In the 1930s he moved to New Jersey, where he was headmaster of a school. He died on March 31, 1949, in Ridgewood, New Jersey. He and his wife are buried in San Rafael, California. Many of his relatives were based in Carpinteria, California, and he lived in California for a time as a youth, and traveled there for visits later on in life.
Margaret Fishback
1900 Mar. 10 Born Margaret Fishback, Washington, D.C.
1917 Graduated from Central High School (Washington, D.C.)
1921 A.B. degree, Goucher College (Baltimore, Md.)
1921 Teacher, English and History, Columbia Junior High School (Washington, D.C.)
1922 Organizational Department, Tamblyn and Brown (New York, N.Y.)
1926-1930 Divisional copywriter, R. H Macy & Co. (Macy's)
1930-1942 Institutional advertisement writer, Macy's
1932 Published I Feel Better Now, Verses
1933 Published Out of My Head
1935 Published I Take It Back
1935 June 14 Married Alberto Gastone Antolini, chief rug buyer, Macy's
1937 Published One to a Customer: Collected Poems
1938 Published Safe Conduct: When to Behave--And Why
1940 Published Time for a Quick One
1940-1942 Copy Chief, Macy's
1942 Jan. 25 Son Anthony Frederick (Tony) Antolini born
1943-1947 Wrote Woman-Talk column in Liberty magazine
1945 Published Look Who's A Mother!
1948-1950 Copywriter, Cecil & Presbrey
1951 Copywriter, Warwick & Legler
1956 Divorced Alberto Antolini
1958 Copywriter, Young & Rubicam
1959 Oct. 1-1961 Copywriter, Doyle Dane Bernbach
1963 Published My Little Library: Dolls, Games, Rhymes
1963 Published Poems Made Up to Take Out
1968 Published The Animal Parade (translated from German)
1969 Published A Child's Book of Natural History
1985 Sept. 25 Died, Camden, Me.
Margaret Fishback Antolini was an advertising copywriter and author of light verse and prose. She was known for her wry, cynical attitudes towards domesticity, and her marriage to Alberto Gastone Antolini in 1935 prompted headlines such as Sneerer at Love Engaged to Wed (The New York American, 17 April 1935). The couple had one son, Tony. Fishback lived in several New York City neighborhoods, settling in Murray Hill in 1941, where she would remain until at least 1976. She spent most summers in Thomaston, Maine.
Fishback contributed light verse and prose to a number of national publications, including Collier's, Cosmopolitan, Glamour, Good Housekeeping, Harper's Bazaar, Look, Mademoiselle, New York Times, Reader's Digest, Saturday Evening Post, and Woman's Day. She authored several compilations of light verse, an etiquette book called Safe Conduct: When to Behave--and Why, and two children's books. Common themes in Fishback's work include New York City, womanhood, marriage, and career. Fishback also frequently based her writings on stories and advertisements in newspapers. She published primarily under her maiden name, but also occasionally under her married name and the pseudonyms Marne and Marnie.
Fishback was described in a 1932 New York newspaper article as the highest-paid advertising woman in the world. In addition to her advertising work for Macy's and various advertising agencies, she also did extensive freelance work. Fishback contributed to advertising campaigns for Arrow Shirts, Borden's, Chef Boy-Ar-Dee, Clairol, DuPont, Gimbels, Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company (A&P), Hanes Hosiery, Martex, Norsk, Pabst Blue Ribbon, Seagram's, Simmons Beautyrest, and Wrigley, among several others. She was also a member of the professional society Advertising Women of New York (AWNY).
Chronology of Major Published Work
1932 I Feel Better Now, Verses
1933 Out of My Head
1935 I Take It Back
1937 One to a Customer: Collected Poems
1938 Safe Conduct: When to Behave--And Why
1940 Time for a Quick One
1945 Look Who's A Mother!
1963 My Little Library: Dolls, Games, Rhymes
1963 Poems Made Up to Take Out
1968 The Animal Parade (translated from German)
1969 A Child's Book of Natural History
Dr. Morris Fishbein was an editor for the American Medical Association Journal and an health columnist.
William Righter Fisher
1849 June 27 Born in Montgomery County, Pa. to Wiliam A. and Sarah Fisher
1870 Graduated from Dickinson College in Carlisle, Pa.
1871-1874 Attended Universities of Heidelberg and Munich
1874-1876 Taught modern languages at Dickinson College
1876 Jan. 4 Married Mary Wager
1876 Admitted to Philadelphia bar and began to practice law
1932 Feb. 18 Died in Philadelphia, Pa.
Mary Wager Fisher
1845 Born in Lansing, N.Y.
1864 Graduated from Alfred University
1866 Taught freedmen at Dr. Manly's school in Richmond, Va.
1870 Became journalist, covering political events in Washington, D.C.
1872 Wrote series of articles entitled, The Traveller Abroad for The Rural New Yorker
1876 Married William Righter Fisher
1915 July 1 Died in Bryn Mawr, Pa.
Photius Fisk was a military chaplain, philanthropist and abolitionist.
Bruno Foa (1905-1999) was a white Italian-born, Jewish economist, lawyer, consultant, and professor. Educated in Italy as an economist and lawyer, he became Italy's youngest full professor of economics at age 28. In 1937, he married Lisa Haimann, a refugee from Munich, and they moved to London in 1938. While in London, he worked for the British Broadcasting Company, the National Institute of Economic and Social Research, and guest lectured at the London School of Economics.
In 1940, Foa moved his family to the United States. He began work at Princeton University on a Rockefeller Foundation Grant and later moved to Washington, DC, where he worked for the Rockefeller Foundation, the Office of Inter-American Affairs, the Bureau of Latin American Affairs and the Federal Reserve Board.
In 1945, Foa settled in New York City and became an economic consultant focusing on Italian reconstruction and economic development after World War II. During this time, he published his book on Italian monetary reconstruction and wrote many articles in both American and Italian journals about financial development. He taught at Yale University and the University of Pennsylvania, among many other guest lecturer positions.
Foa's work afforded him the opportunity to travel many times to Europe, especially Italy, and other destinations around the globe, including Jerusalem, Somalia, and South America. In Europe and America, he encountered, knew, and worked with a variety of people from a wide range of professions: economists, writers, architects, businessmen, politicians, labor leaders, and Zionists.
Judith A. Fortney has made significant contributions to research in the field of reproductive health, and has been actively involved in this research since 1974. She worked for Family Health International in North Carolina for 25 years where she was involved in research and writing surrounding maternal mortality and contraceptive epidemiology. She conducted the first RAMOS (Reproductive Age Mortality Survey) Study in Egypt and Indonesia in the early 1980s and has consulted for various U.N. agencies and NGOs. She also worked for the World Health Organization in Geneva where she developed strategies for their Safe Motherhood program, and was a long time member of the WHO contraceptive epidemiology committee and maternal mortality research committee. She has published widely in the field of reproductive health, including such topics as: contraceptive epidemiology, maternal mortality, and sexually transmitted infections.
She received a PhD in demography from Duke University, a master’s degree from the University of Wisconsin and a bachelor’s degree from the London School of Economics. She is an instructor at Columbia’s Mailman School of Public Health and an adjunct professor in the Department of Maternal and Child Health at the University of North Carolina.
Advertising agency based in San Francisco and Los Angeles.
Frederick Fraser was a cotton planter in the South Carolina low country in the early to mid-1800s. He was associated with the Fraser and Thompson firm in the Charleston, S.C., cotton business.
Danny Wilcox Frazier (b. 1971) is a documentary photographer based in the Midwest. His book, DRIFTLESS: PHOTOGRAPHS FROM IOWA, was published by Duke University Press in 2007, and won the Duke University Center for Documentary Studies/Honickman Book Prize in Photography.
Founded by Jim Baxter in 1979 and based in Raleigh, North Carolina, The Front Page was a bi-monthly newspaper published by Bugle Publishing, Inc. devoted to the LGBTQ+ community in North and South Carolina. Its last issue was published in May 2006, after which it was absorbed by Charlotte-based newspaper QnotesCarolinas.
Jim Baxter (1953-) went on to study journalism at Syracuse University after selling The Front Page to QnotesCarolinas. In September 2006, he became the first openly gay man to receive a distunguished alumnus award from his alma mater Guilford College. He also received the Front Page Award from QnotesCarolinas. Both awards recognized Baxter's significant contributions to the LGBTQ+ community in North Carolina and beyond.
Source: "Alma mater, publication honor student," The Daily Orange, October 2006, https://dailyorange.com/2006/10/alma-mater-publication-honor-student/ (accessed December 13, 2023).
The Farm Security Administration Project
The Farm Security Administration (FSA) was created in 1937 under the Department of Agriculture, as part of the U.S. Federal government "New Deal" recovery programs following the Great Depression. Its main purpose was to minister to the needs of and improve the dire situation of impoverished rural people across the U.S.
In support of this effort, the FSA hired noted photographers and oral history interviewers to promote FSA programs and to document economic and social conditions and natural landscapes of the U.S. and its territories, as well as to illustrate the still-present vitality of the United States in the aftermath of the Depression. Led by economist/photographer Roy Stryker, the project ran until 1942, when the FSA was dissolved and subsumed under the Office of War Information (OWI). Many of the photographers hired for the FSA continued their work under the OWI.
Between 1937 and 1946, FSA/OWI photographers created over 175,000 black-and-white images, and only about 1600 color images using Kodachrome chromogenic film, at that time a relatively new technology. Among the FSA photographers were Jack Delano, Russell Lee, and Marion Post Wolcott, whose color images form this collection.
[Adapted from the Library of Congress FSA/OWI Color Photographs Collection website, accessed March 2019.]
Born in the Ukraine in 1914, Delano came to the United States in 1923 when he was five. After graduating from Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts in 1937, Delano worked as a photographer for the Farm Security Administration (FSA) and the Office of War Information (OWI). He was also a well-known music composer. He moved to Puerto Rico in 1946 and lived there until his death in 1997.
Russell Lee (1903-1990) was born in Illinois. A journalist and photographer, he was best known for his photographic work for the Farm Security Administration from 1936 to 1943. He died in Austin, Texas, where he had taught photography at the University of Texas.
Robert Jerome Fuhrman was an advertising and marketing executive and entrepreneur, co-founder of Eggland's Best, based in Pennsylvania.
Robert Furhman was born in New York in 1929 and attended Bethany College and Harvard Business School. Fuhrman worked on marketing for Beech-Nut baby foods and Ricola candies, served as Vice President for totes and Brand Manager for Procter & Gamble's Crest toothpaste. Fuhrman was co-founder and CEO of Eggland's Best, a leading branded egg in the United States. He died in New Jersey in 2019.
The Feminist Women's Health Center in Atlanta, Georgia, was founded in 1976 by a group of women dissatisfied with the health care options and information available to them and who desired to change this situation. The clinic started in 1977 with self-help groups where women were able to learn from each other and themselves through open discussions. It expanded to offer a full range of clinical services (including providing access to birth control and contraception, abortion, donor insemination, and pregnancy care) as well as educational, outreach, and advocacy programs, addressing subjects such as sexual hygiene, sex, and sexually transmitted diseases.
Lisa Garmon, longtime resident of Chapel Hill, NC, was a multi-issue activist, organizing for women's rights, LGBT/queer rights, Latin American rights, and a defender of the environment. Garmon died in 2007.
German Army regiments assigned throughout Europe created these newspapers during World War I.
Professor of English at Duke University, specialist in Renaissance Italy.
Alberta Bassett (Stith Jones Gillingham was the daughter of Dr. Nicholas Long Bolling Stith, who graduated in medicine from the University of Pennsylvania in 1829 and who lived in Halifax County and then in Raleigh. He had at least two other children, Anna Guion and Fred H. Stith. Dr. Stith and his brother, A.B. Stith, bought 1000 shares of stock in the Ward gold mine in 1854, one of the largest mines in the Cid mining district of Davidson County, N.C. Mrs. Gillingham inherited at least part of the properties which she came to hold in the Cid mining district. It appears from the papers that her mining interests included gold, silver, copper, sulphur, and zinc. One of the mines she came to own was the Ward mine. Her first marriage in 1881 was to J. Howard Jones, also a mine owner, who died in 1884. She also became involved with a lawyer from Charlotte, William H. Bailey. She married her second husband, Captain H.R. Gillingham, in 1905. By then, Alberta and her brother and sister had become estranged, and a long legal battle ensued during the late 19th and early 20th centuries over the ownership of the mines.
Emma Simpson Glover, daughter of Germaine Franklin and Margaret (?) Simpson, was born during the late 1870s or 1880s in Midway Mills, Nelson County, Va. The papers also document the existence of at least two sisters, Mary and Mabel; a brother, Walter Charles; and an uncle, Charles H. Simpson, who later published several novellas based on his experiences in Montana. Emma remained in Midway Mills until she married Samuel Ridout Glover, a physician, in 1911, when she moved to nearby Howardsville, Va. Emma's mother died around 1896; her father died in 1906.
Arthur Golden was professor emeritus at the City College of the City University of New York; editor of Walt Whitman’s Blue Book (1968), and co-editor of Leaves of grass: a textual variorium of the printed poems (1980)
1911 Born, Manhattan, N.Y.
1928 Graduates from Vocational School for Boys; moves to Los Angeles and works in lithography and photoengraving.
1930s Returns to New York; works for Journal American, House & Garden
1937 CBS Radio, Promotion Department
1940 Art Director, CBS Radio
1941 Office of War Information
1943-1946 U.S. Army; works on training manual design; discharged 1946 with rank of Captain
1946 CBS Television; named Creative Director in 1951
1951 New corporate style for CBS: typography based on Didot typeface; "eye" logo symbol based on imaged from Shaker folk art
1959 Dies, New York
Jean Gonzalez, a.k.a. Juana Maria Paz, is an author, dramatist, and lesbian feminist, born in New York of Puerto Rican heritage. Since 1990, she has lived in Virginia as a resident in the intentional collective and ecofeminist community Twin Oaks.
The Rev. William Graham was a Presbyterian minister and one of the founders of Liberty Hall Academy (later Washington and Lee University); He performed many scientific experiments, one of which led him to the patent on the modern fire extinguisher.
Married first to David Davis, lawyer, Supreme Court Justice, and U.S. Senator from Illinois, and then to Wharton Jackson Green, agriculturist and U.S. Representative from North Carolina; resident of Fayetteville, N.C.
Advertising executive at Doyle Dane Bernbach and Paula Green Advertising, based in New York. Born 1927, Los Angeles, California; BA University of California, Berkeley, 1944; Grey Advertising 1947-1948; Promotions Director, Seventeen Magazine 1952-1954; Copywriter, L.C. Gumbinner 1954-1956; Vice President, Creative Manager, Doyle Dane Bernbach 1956-1969; Creative Director and President, Green Dolmatch 1969-1977; Creative Director and CEO, Paula Green Advertising 1978-2013; One Club Creative Hall of Fame 2012; Died Dec. 4, 2015 New York.
Significant campaigns: Avis "We Try Harder"; Subaru U.S. launch; ILGWU "Look for the Union Label"; American Cancer Society (breast self examination; PAP smear test advocacy); U.S. Public Health Service antismoking campaign; New York Times "Home Delivery"; Ms. Magazine launch.
Eugene Grissom (1831-1902) was a North Carolina physician who served as superintendent of the North Carolina insane asylum in Raleigh from 1868 until 1889.
The Hall family of Anne Arundel County, Maryland, were enslavers and owners of tobacco plantations.
James Hamilton (1763-1829) was likely born in Scotland, and emigrated to the United States in 1784. He established a business in Charleston, South Carolina, as a shipping merchant associated with Edward Mortimer & Co. of Charleston, David McCredie of Charleston and Savannah, and Henry Bethune & Co. of London. In 1800 he established a cotton plantation on St. Simons Island, Ga., with about 300 slaves, and later jointly owned (with John Couper) a second plantation property, a rice plantation with 450 slaves, Hopeton, on the Altamaha River near Darien, Georgia. He also acquired two substantial town homes, No.13 Broad Street in Charleston, and No. 260 Walnut Street in Philadelphia. His wife was Nancy Isabella Steedman (1780-c.1818) of London. They had two children, Agnes Rebecca, and George (b.1806).
At his death in April 1829 in Philadelphia, Hamilton owned four coastal Georgia plantations, and a total of 662 slaves, and was a very rich man. He devised his entire estate in trust to his grandchildren, of whom only one, Isabella Hamilton Corbin (b.1827), was alive in 1829. The other two legatees were Elizabeth T. Corbin (b.1831), and Richard Washington Corbin (1837-1922). Each heir was to receive a full one-third share upon reaching the age of 21 years. After his death the executors invested heavily in 5% bonds of the State of Pennsylvania, and during and after the Civil War in U.S. Treasury bonds. After the 1827 marriage of Agnes Rebecca Hamilton to Francis Porteus Corbin (1801-1876), a lawyer from Virginia, the Corbins lived in France. The other child, George, never married and later lived in Liverpool. Collateral relations included his wife's niece Isabella Bethune (1804), his wife's cousin Margaret (Mrs. Daniel) Kennedy (1805), his nephew Robert Wilson and grand-nephew James Hamilton Wilson, both of Liverpool, and his niece Janet Wilson of Philadelphia and Scotland.
In 1848, after two decades of the administration of Hamilton's estate, principally the Georgia slave plantations and the Pennsylvania state bonds and other financial investments, the estate was valuated at over $1 million, including 764 slaves.
As directed, from 1848-1858 the estate was successively divided among the three heirs, with Francis P. Corbin as trustee for the shares of Isabella H. (1848) and Elizabeth T. (1852), and with annuities funded principally by Pennsylvania and U.S. bonds exempted from the estate division, continuing to Agnes Corbin and George Hamilton through at least 1867.
Abraham Hanson was an English-born American pastor and diplomat. Hanson was born in 1818 and was educated near Bromley in South Yorkshire. He moved to the United States to become a pastor in the Methodist Episcopal Church, serving in parishes in Aurora, Illinois, Chicago, Milwaukee and Racine, Wisconsin. He left the ministry in 1851 due to poor health and relocated to Kenosha, Wisconsin, where he became involved in local politics and was elected city treasurer for several terms. In May 1862, he became a U.S. Commercial Agent in Liberia. In 1863, he was appointed by President Abraham Lincoln to become the first U.S. Commissioner and Consul-General to Liberia. In 1866, Hanson became ill with fever. He died on July 20, 1866, and was buried in Monrovia, the Liberian capital.
Dr. Marmaduke M. Haworth was born 20 January 1823 in Guilford County, N.C., and died 23 March 1894 in Franklinville, Randolph County, N.C. He served the Franklinville area as a physician. He married Mary McMasters in 1852 and the couple had three children, Pandora, Viola, and Elizabeth.
Paul Hamilton Hayne was a white Southern American poet and literary critic from Charleston, S.C., and Columbia County, Georgia. He supported the Confederacy and opposed Reconstruction in the post-war South.
1827 Born, Davidson County, N.C.
1851 Graduated with highest honors, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
1851-1854 Clerk, Nautical Almanac, Cambridge, Mass.
1852 Married Mary Ellen Thompson
1854-1856 Professor of Chemistry Applied to Agriculture and the Arts, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
1856 Expelled from UNC for anti-slavery, pro-Republican views; left North Carolina
1856-1857 Travelled the U.S. Northern states, looking for work
1857 Chemist, New York
1858 Clerk, Mayor's office, New York City
1859 Teacher, Cooper Union
1861-1886 Examiner, Patent Office, Washington, D.C.
April 1865 Agent, American Union Commission; toured N.C. and examined schools
January-March 1868 Attended N.C. Constitutional Convention, Raleigh
1868 Candidate for Congress, N.C. 4th District (was defeated)
1886 Died, Washington, D.C.
1921 Born, April 16, on a farm near Hubert, Onslow County, North Carolina.
1942 Graduated with B.S. degree from Davidson College; married Mary Wellons Knowles of Wallace, North Carolina, December 11; their three sons are David Bruce, Wiley Bryant, and Wimbric Boney.
1942-1946 Commissioned as second lieutenant in Army Air Corps, served overseas in India, China, and Okinawa, discharged as major in Air Force.
1949 Graduated with LL.B. from University of North Carolina Law School, Chapel Hill.
1949-1950 Practiced law in Wallace.
1951-1952 Served as Assistant General Counsel to the Committee on Education and Labor, U.S. House of Representatives.
1952-1954 Practiced law in Wallace.
1954-1958 Elected and served as solicitor of the Duplin County General Court.
1958-1960 Elected and served as judge of the same court.
1960-1976 Elected to the 87th Congress as Representative for the Third District of North Carolina, November 8, 1960; served continuously until retirement in 1976.
Committee Assignments
Committee Assignments:
87th Congress 1961-1962
Post Office and Civil Service Committee, Subcommittees on Census and Government Statistics, Manpower Utilization
88th Congress 1963-1964
Post Office and Civil Service Committee, Subcommittee on Manpower Utilization (Chairman); Public Works Committee, Subcommittees on Public Buildings and Grounds, Rivers and Harbors
89th Congress 1965-1966
Post Office and Civil Service Committee, Subcommittees on Manpower Utilization (Chairman), Postal Operations; Public Works Committee, Subcommittees on Flood Control, Public Buildings and Grounds, Rivers and Harbors, Ad Hoc Subcommittee on Appalachia
90th Congress 1967-1968
Post Office and Civil Service Committee, Subcommittees on Manpower and Civil Service (Chairman), Position Classification, Retirement Insurance and Health Benefits; Public Works Committee, Subcommittees on Flood Control, Public Buildings and Grounds, Rivers and Harbors, Special Subcommittees on Economic Development Programs, Ad Hoc Subcommittee on Appalachia
91st Congress 1969-1970
Post Office and Civil Service Committee, Subcommittees on Manpower and Civil Service (Chairman), Retirement Insurance and Health Benefits; Public Works Committee, Subcommittees on Flood Control, Rivers and Harbors, Roads, Special Subcommittee on Economic Development Programs, Ad Hoc Subcommittee on Appalachia
92nd Congress 1971-1972
Post Office and Civil Service Committee, Subcommittees on Manpower and Civil Service (Chairman), Postal Facilities; Public Works Committee, Subcommittees on Flood Control and Internal Development, Rivers and Harbors, Roads, Special Subcommittee on Economic Development Programs
93rd Congress 1973-1974
Post Office and Civil Service Committee, Subcommittees on Manpower and Civil Service (Chairman), Investigations; Public Works Committee, Subcommittees on Water Resources, Transportation, Economic Development, Investigations and Reviews, Energy
94th Congress 1975-1976
Post Office and Civil Service Committee, (Chairman), Subcommittee on Manpower and Civil Service (Chairman); Public Works Committee, Subcommittees on Aviation, Economic Development, Public Buildings and Grounds
Muriel W. Henderson was born on June 20, 1920 in Tacoma, Washington, and died on June 9, 2009 in Chapel Hill, NC. Her family and friends knew her as Ki. She lived a full and active life with a wonderful will to experience as much as possible. She spent 22 years as a missionary in Angola with her husband Larry, leaving there in 1969 when the colonial war for independence made it hard to continue the work. She and Larry moved to New Jersey where he worked for the mission board in New York and she worked in social services. She loved working with African students at the Africa-America Institute. Ki and Larry finished their careers in Florida, first in Leisure City and then at Sun City Center. From 1985 to 1991 they lived in Portugal, where they had first gone in 1947 to learn Portuguese for their work in Angola. Ki helped Larry research in Portuguese archives for his book on the church in Angola. While there, they reconnected with many old friends from Angola. In 1991 they moved to Durham, NC and became active in the life of Pilgrim United Church of Christ. Ki was a life-long letter writer and corresponded with friends and colleagues all over the world.
Biographical sketch taken from Muriel's obituary, available at: http://www.cremationsocietync.com/sitemaker/sites/Cremat2/obit.cgi?user=murial-henderson.
Born in Washington, D.C., artist Lauren Henkin graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in Architecture from Washington University in St. Louis and now resides in Maine.
Henkin's work is focused on the tension between preservation and extinction — from fading relationships to invasive growths to material possessions — as told in the American vernacular.
Her work resides in over twenty institutional collections including the Cleveland Museum of Art, Portland Art Museum, Yale University, Smith College Museum of Art, and Brown University's Bell Gallery, among others. She is also the founder of Vela Noche, a publisher of handmade books and editions.
Henkin received the 2017 Duke University Archive of Documentary Arts Award for Southern Documentarians.
Ima Honaker Herron was professor emeritus of American literature from Southern Methodist University (Dallas, TX). Herron received her Ph.D. from Duke University in 1935.
Edward Brodnax Hicks (1800-1858) was a sheriff and plantation owner of Lawrenceville, Brunswick County, Virginia. He was also superintendent of schools for a time. His son and successor to the estate and law practice, David Hicks, was a judge, sheriff, land agent, lawyer, and planter in the same locality. In 1870 he was engaged with Turnbull in selling Brunswick County land to Northerners and there is some correspondence on this matter. In 1878, David became County Judge of Brunswick County, and in the same year the letters show him as a partner in the Brunswick Land Company, engaged in land negotiations in Texas. In 1896 he was made trustee of this company, having all the land it owned put in his charge. David S. Hicks had at least three children: Rowena, Bessie, and David Jr., who was in 1894 engaged with Thomas B. Price in the lumber business in Lawrenceville.
Robin Higham, Ph.D., was born in 1925, the son of an American mother and a British father. He raised in London before being sent to the United States at the outbreak of the Battle of Britain in 1940. He joined the Royal Air Force in 1943, and flew over both Europe and Asia before being discharged in 1947. He attended the University of New Hampshire and then transferred to Harvard University, graduating with honors in 1950.
Higham was also married in 1950 to his wife, Barbara, and the couple lived in California for a few years before returning to Cambridge. He earned his Ph.D. in 1957, with a dissertation on the development of British aviation. The family then moved to North Carolina, where Higham taught in the History Department at the University of North Carolina from 1957-1963. He also helped found the Duke and University of North Carolina National Security Seminar.
Higham left UNC in 1963 and moved to Kansas State University, where he helped establish the school's doctoral program in military history. He also served as editor for Military Affairs (now the Journal of Military History) from 1968 through 1988, Aerospace Historian from 1970 through 1988, and the Journal of the West from 1977 through 2003(?). In addition, he founded Sunflower University Press in 1977. He is professor emeritus in the History Department at Kansas State University.
Cornelius Baldwin Hite was a farmer of Winchester (Frederick Co.), Va.
Annie L. Hobbs was an instructor at the New Hampshire Conference Seminary and Female College (Methodist) in Tilton, New Hampshire and at the Troy Conference Academy in Poultney, Vermont during the 1850s and 1860s.
Born 1907, Wichita, Kansas; Vassar College 1929 (English and History); Marshall Field 1929-1934; Harper's Bazaar 1936-1940; Montgomery Ward 1941; taught Columbia University Lincoln School during World War II; opened Hockaday Associates agency 1949. Died 1992, New York. 1877 Clyde Roark Hoey born, 11 December
1899 Studied law, University of North Carolina
1898-1902 Served in N. C. House of Representatives
1899 Admitted to North Carolina Bar
1900 Married Bessie Gardner
1902-1904 Served in N. C. Senate
1913-1919 Appointed Assistant United States District Attorney, Western North Carolina District
1919-1921 Declined re-nomination. Resumed law practice, 1921
Elected to 66th Congress to fill vacancy caused by resignation of Edwin Y. Webb.
1928 Democratic Presidential Elector-at-Large
1937-1941 Governor of North Carolina
1944-1954 United States Senator from North Carolina until his death on May 13, 1954
Committee Assignments
1945-1954 Agriculture and Forestry
1945-1946 District of Columbia
1947-1952 Expenditures in the Executive Departments
1949-1954 Finance
1953-1954 Government Operations
1945-1946 Immigration
1945-1946 Interstate Commerce
Rachel Hoff grew up in Pennsylvania where she attended high school in the 1990's. She wrote the zine Intelligence Lull when she was 15 years old, and was nearly expelled from her high school for distributing it. Her parents argued the First Amendment on her behalf. She is currently a librarian in Pennsylvania.
William Woods Holden (1818-1892) was a journalist and Republican governor of North Carolina from Raleigh (Wake Co.) N.C. He was owner and editor of the North Carolina Standard newspaper from 1843 to 1860, during which time he was a member of the Democratic Party. He served as a N.C. delegate to the Democratic National Convention in Charleston, S.C., in 1860. As the Civil War progressed, Holden criticized the Confederate government and became a leader of the North Carolina peace movement. In May 1865 President Andrew Johnson appointed him provisional governor of North Carolina, serving until December 1865. In 1868 he ran and won as the Republican candidate for governor. In an effort to combat the Ku Klux Klan, Holden suspended habeas corpus and imposed martial law on Alamance and Caswell counties. He was impeached in 1870 by the Democratic state legislature on eight charges related to the rough treatment of North Carolina citizens due to his efforts to combat the Ku Klux Klan. He was convicted of six of the eight charges and removed from office in 1871. Following his removal from office, Holden moved to Washington, D.C. and resumed a career in journalism. In 1873, President Ulysses S. Grant appointed him postmaster, a position he held in Raleigh until 1881.
Holden was married twice: first to Ann Augusta Young, who died in 1852 and with whom he had four children. He married Louisa Virginia Harrison, a widow with four children of her own, in 1854. He died in Raleigh in 1892.
Holden was sued by a rival newspaperman, Josiah Turner, in 1885, following Turner's arrest by Holden during his term as governor. The suit continued into the 1890s, despite Holden's being incapacitated by poor health. His wife, Louisa Virginia Holden, acted in his place and the suit was continued against her after Holden's death in 1892. Turner lost the suit in 1894.
Philip Holland was born in 1877 in Murray, Kentucky, and eventually settled in Jackson, Tennessee. He married Corabelle Anderson in 1904, and they had two children: Philip (nicknamed Pito) and Isabelle Holland.
The Holland family spent much of the early 1900s living abroad, with Philip Holland, a lawyer, working for the U.S. Consul. He was first stationed in Puerto Plata, 1910-1911, which was followed by tenures in Saltillo (1911-1913) and Basel, Switzerland (1913-1923). The family moved to Guatemala in 1923, and Holland became U.S. Consul General in Guatemala from 1924-1927. After Guatemala, Holland was stationed in Liverpool from 1929-1938. The family returned to the United States with the outbreak of World War II.
Isabelle Holland, the youngest child, was born in 1920 in Basel, and grew up with her family in Guatemala City and Liverpool. She graduated from Tulane in 1942, and worked in publishing before becoming a published author herself in her 40s. Isabelle wrote over 50 books, mostly fiction for teenagers, including The Man Without a Face (1972). She died in 2002.
Frederick William Mackey Holliday, of Winchester (Frederick Co.), Va., was a member of the Confederate Congress and the 38th Governor of Virginia from 1878 to 1882.
George Frederick Holmes was a University of Virginia faculty member, an early sociologist, and an ante-bellum writer who defended the institution of slavery. He fully described this position in his textbook, The Science of Society, published in 1883.
Charlotte S. Holt (1914-1990) worked for forty years as a medical illustrator, sculptor, and exhibit designer. Together with her professional partner, Dr. Frederick Falls, head of the OB/GYN department at the University of Illinois, Holt created thirty-six major medical exhibits for the education of physicians and surgeons. Holt's illustrations focus on gynecological and obstetric cases, and her bas-relief sculptures show the diseases and conditions most frequently fatal to mothers and babies. Holt and Falls also produced a medical atlas, entitled Atlas of Obstetric Complications (1961).
The History of Medicine Collections artifacts collections began in 1956 with the donation of the Josiah C. Trent Collection, which formed the nucleus of the History of Medicine Collections at Duke Unversity's Medical Library. The Trent family's donation included many artifacts related to the practice of medicine. Subsequent acquisitions over the years from many other donors make up the rest of this collection, which forms part of the History of Medicine Collections at Duke University. The collection continues to receive additions.
Kathy Hopwood, working with her partner Beth Seigler, created martial arts and self-defense workshops and training courses for women in order to equip them to defend themselves against assault, rape, and other forms of attack. She also dedicated considerable work to the promotion of child safety, self-defense for older adults, and self-defense for individuals with disabilities. She oversaw the opening of her own dojo in Durham, North Carolina, which was active from 1982-2015. The organization's name changed over time: it was founded in 1982 as the Triangle Women's Karate Association. When Beth Seigler partnered with Hopwood, its name changed to Triangle Women's Martial Arts, located at 715 Mangum Street in Durham, and then finally to SafeSkills Dojo in 1992 when they relocated to 3710 Shannon Road. In 2008, they related to their final space at 3702 Hillsborough Road in Durham. Claudia Horwitz founded the spiritual activism organization Stone Circles in 1995 and led the organization until 2013. Her previous work includes developing youth leadership, supporting struggles for economic justice, and strengthening social change organizations. She was a Rockefeller Foundation Next Generation Leadership Fellow and has a masters' degree in public policy from Duke University. She is the author of The Spiritual Activist: Practices to Transform Your Life, Your Work, and Your World (Penguin Compass, 2002), and serves on the board of the Seasons Fund for Social Transformation.
Julia Ward Howe (1819-1910) was an author, lecturer, abolitionist, and suffragist. She is best known for authoring the “Battle Hymn of the Republic,” which was published by the Atlantic Monthly in 1862 and became the Union’s Civil War anthem. She also co-founded the American Woman Suffrage Association and was the first woman elected to the American Academy of Arts and Letters in 1908.
Hunter is a collector of works by certain southern authors taught by William Blackburn. Tyler is a Duke alumna and Pulitzer Prize-winning novelist and short story writer, whose best-known works include novels The Accidental Tourist (1985) and Breathing Lessons (1988).
Hunter is a collector of works by certain southern authors taught by William Blackburn. William Styron is an award-winning author of American literature, including such works as Sophie's Choice and The Confessions of Nat Turner. Both are Duke University alumni.
The International Center for Transitional Justice (ICTJ), founded in 2001 and based in New York City, is a global non-profit that works with partners in post-conflict, conflict, and democratic countries to pursue accountability, truth, and reconciliation for large-scale human right abuses, through a series of measures including criminal prosecutions, truth commissions, reparations programs, and institutional reforms. It also has offices in Bogotá, Colombia; Brussels, Belgium; The Hague, The Netherlands; Kampala, Uganda; Nairobi, Kenya; and Tunis, Tunisia.
Louis Bickford joined the International Center for Transitional Justice at its foundation in 2001. During his time at the ICTJ, Bickford served as Director of the Memory and Memorials Unit as well as the Policymakers and Civil Society Unit.
Biographical Note for Pippa Scott
The International Monitor Institute (IMI) was founded in 1993 by actress and film producer Pippa Scott. Scott, daughter of screenwriter Allan Scott who wrote some of the Astaire-Rogers films, was educated in California and in England, at Radcliffe College and the Southern California Institute of Architecture. Ms. Scott acted in such films as "The Searchers" and "Auntie Mame," and was a founding partner of the Emmy-award winning television company Lorimar Productions (producer of such TV hits as "The Waltons" and "Dallas"). Scott established Linden Productions in 1987 to develop documentaries focusing on current issues. Linden's latest production is "King Leopold's Ghost," a documentary about the exploitation of the Congo by King Leopold II of Belgium. Scott was a member of the Women's Refugee Commission, the Pacific Council on Foreign Relations, and the Los Angeles World Affairs Council. Historical Note for the International Monitor Institute
Organizational History. The International Monitor Institute was founded in 1993 and operated until 2003. Its primary mission was to assist international war-crimes tribunals by collecting, indexing and organizing visual evidence of violations of international human rights law. Videos and audio tapes were acquired through donation as well as on collecting trips by IMI associates in the former Yugoslavia, Kuwait, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Iraq, Burma (Myanmar), Thailand, Cambodia, and other countries. IMI's activities also included developing regional archives of videos on conflict and human rights abuses, producing film and multimedia projects to assist humanitarian organizations, organizing public outreach events, conducting video research for governments, film makers, authors, and students, and providing educational outreach. Patrons and partners of IMI and its collections included the International Criminal Court and its staff, Human Rights Watch, Physicians for Human Rights, the Simon Wiesenthal Center, the governments of Bosnia-Herzegovina and Croatia, and former First Lady Hillary Clinton. Mumia Abu-Jamal (born Wesley Cook, 1954 Apr. 24) was convicted of the 1981 murder of Philadelphia police officer Daniel Faulkner and sentenced to death. He has been described as "perhaps the world's best known death-row inmate." Before his arrest, he was an activist and radio journalist who became President of the Philadelphia Association of Black Journalists. He was a member of the Black Panther Party (BPP) until October 1970.
Sundiata Acoli (born Clark Edward Squire, 1937 Jan. 14) is a former member of the Black Liberation Army (BLA), a member of the indicted Panther 21, and current member of the Republic of New Afrika. He was sentenced to life in prison in 1974 for killing a New Jersey state trooper.
David Gilbert (born October 6, 1944) is an American radical leftist organizer and activist who is currently imprisoned at Clinton Correctional Facility. Gilbert was a founding member of Columbia University Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) and member of the Weather Underground Organization (WUO). After ten years underground, he was arrested in October 1981, along with members of the Black Liberation Army and other radicals, for the Brinks robbery.
Kevin "Rashid" Johnson is the defense minister for the New Afrikan Black Panther Party Prison Chapter and an active jailhouse lawyer. His writings and artwork are prominently featured in the Incarceration Zine Collection.
Dennis Kyne is a leading anti-war activist and prominent member of Veterans for Peace. He is based in San Jose, California.
Ashanti Alston Omowali is an anarchist activist, speaker, and writer, and former member of the Black Panther Party. Alston refers to himself as "the @narchist Panther", a term he coined in his @narchist Panther Zine series. He was also a member of the Black Liberation Army and spent more than a decade in prison for an armed robbery conviction.
Anthony Rayson is an American anarchist activist and author. He runs the South Chicago ABC Zine Distro and publishes many zines and pamphlets. He is a co-founder of and an officer for Shut This Airport Nightmare Down (STAND), a resident's group in Peotone, Illinois who oppose the proposed Chicago south suburban airport.
Robert Gerard "Bobby" Sands (1954 Mar. 9–1981 May 5) was an Irish volunteer of the Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA) and member of the United Kingdom Parliament who died on hunger strike while imprisoned in Her Majesty's Prison Maze (HR Prison). He was the leader of the 1981 hunger strike in which Irish republican prisoners protested against the removal of Special Category Status. During his strike he was elected as a member of the United Kingdom Parliament as an Anti H-Block/Armagh Political Prisoner candidate. His death resulted in a new surge of IRA recruitment and activity.
Sean Swain (born 1969 Sept. 12) has been serving a life sentence for aggravated murder in Mansfield Correctional Institution in Ohio. While incarcerated, he has run for a number of political offices, most notably for Ohio Governor in 1006 and 2010. He ran as an anarchist write-in candidate under the banner of the Zapatista Party.
Harold H. Thompson (1942 Apr. 9-2008 Oct. 11) was an Irish-American anarchist activist and prisoner. Thompson received a life sentence after being found guilty of killing his son's mother's convicted murderer. Thompson served in the Vietnam War before being discharged for being wounded, and became an anti-war and anarchist activist associated with the Vietnam Veterans Against the War during the 1960s and 1970s.
Mr. Yoder is a postcard collector and Duke University alumnus (class of 1938).
Dona Irvin (1917-2009) was the author of The Unsung Heart of Black America, I Hope I Look That Good When I'm That Old, and other works. Frank Irvin was a chemist and worked for many years for the Chemistry Department of the University of California at Berkeley. The Irvins are the parents of historian Nell Irvin Painter, whose papers are also in the Rubenstein Library.
Renée Jacobs' early photojournalism included assignments for The New York Times, Philadelphia Inquirer and many other newspapers and magazines. She received the Robert F. Kennedy Award for Outstanding Coverage of the Disadvantaged and her work is in the permanent collection of the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library. Slow Burn was originally published in 1986 and re-issued in 2010 to favorable reviews in The New York Times Review of Books and photo-eye. Renée Jacobs went on to study environmental law as a result of her work in Centralia. She practiced civil rights and constitutional law for fifteen years. In 2007 she returned to photography. Her work has been exhibited and published around the world, and has recieved the prestigious International Photography Award for Fine Art Nude among other honors.
Edward Jenner, (born May 17, 1749, Berkeley, Gloucestershire, England—died January 26, 1823, Berkeley), was an English surgeon and scientist who was the pioneer of smallpox vaccine, the world's first vaccine.
Jenner was a country youth, the son of a clergyman. Because Edward was only five when his father died, he was brought up by an older brother, who was also a clergyman. Edward acquired a love of nature that remained with him all his life. He attended grammar school and at the age of 13 was apprenticed to a nearby surgeon. In the following eight years Jenner acquired a sound knowledge of medical and surgical practice. On completing his apprenticeship at the age of 21, he went to London and became the house pupil of John Hunter, who was on the staff of St. George’s Hospital and was one of the most prominent surgeons in London. Even more important, however, he was an anatomist, biologist, and experimentalist of the first rank; not only did he collect biological specimens, but he also concerned himself with problems of physiology and function.
In addition to his training and experience in biology, Jenner made progress in clinical surgery. After studying in London from 1770 to 1773, he returned to country practice in Berkeley and enjoyed substantial success. In addition to practicing medicine, he joined two medical groups for the promotion of medical knowledge and wrote occasional medical papers. He played the violin in a musical club, wrote light verse, and, as a naturalist, made many observations, particularly on the nesting habits of the cuckoo and on bird migration.
Smallpox was widespread in the 18th century, and occasional outbreaks of special intensity resulted in a very high death rate. Jenner had been impressed by the fact that a person who had suffered an attack of cowpox—a relatively harmless disease that could be contracted from cattle—could not take the smallpox—i.e., could not become infected whether by accidental or intentional exposure to smallpox. Pondering this phenomenon, Jenner concluded that cowpox not only protected against smallpox but could be transmitted from one person to another as a deliberate mechanism of protection. In May 1796 Jenner found a young dairymaid, Sarah Nelmes, who had fresh cowpox lesions on her hand. On May 14, using matter from Sarah’s lesions, he inoculated an eight-year-old boy, James Phipps, who had never had smallpox. Phipps became slightly ill over the course of the next 9 days but was well on the 10th. On July 1 Jenner inoculated the boy again, this time with smallpox matter. No disease developed; protection was complete. In 1798 Jenner, having added further cases, published privately a slender book entitled An Inquiry into the Causes and Effects of the Variolae Vaccinae.
Early reactions to the Inquiry from the medical community and the general public were mixed. Members of the medical community, especially those with investments in the practice of variolation, tried to discredit Jenner’s discovery or stake their own claim to it. Jenner had especially acrimonious feuds with two London physicians, Dr. George Pearson and Dr. William Woodville. Pearson even gave evidence against Jenner’s 1802 petition to the House of Commons for recognition of his work on vaccination.
Despite some people’s doubts about the safety and efficacy of Jenner’s smallpox vaccine, there was great demand for cowpox samples to conduct vaccinations in England and abroad. Jenner and other practitioners in England sent dried cowpox specimens sandwiched between glass to Europe and the United States.
The Jewish Heritage Foundation of North Carolina (JHFNC) is an independent organization dedicated to preserving and presenting the history of the Jewish people of North Carolina. Through public programming and exhibits, the JHFNC aspires to educate and showcase the richness of Jewish Life as well as promote a familiarity with the culture and lifestyle of Jews to the general public. In 2014, the JHFNC transferred their historical collections, including the materials in the graphic arts collection, to the Rubenstein Library.
The Jewish Heritage Foundation of North Carolina (JHFNC) is an independent organization dedicated to preserving and presenting the history of the Jewish people of North Carolina. Through public programming and exhibits, the JHFNC aspires to educate and showcase the richness of Jewish Life as well as promote a familiarity with the culture and lifestyle of Jews to the general public.
In 2014, the JHFNC transferred their historical collections to the Rubenstein Library, including the oral history recordings and transcripts. Originally from Garland, North Carolina, Jefferson D. Johnson, Jr., attended Garland High School and Trinity Park School in Durham before enrolling in Trinity College in 1919. He served as a private in World War I before returning to college and graduating with a B.A. in 1923. Johnson was an active member of Trinity's Sigma Chi fraternity and also played semi-professional baseball. After teaching for a year, he returned to Trinity and earned a law degree in 1926. In 1935, he married Frances Faison. The couple eventually had three children.
Johnson became the Town Attorney for Clinton, N.C., and served from 1928-1941. He also successfully ran for State Senator of the 9th District in 1937 and 1941. In 1941, he was appointed Special Superior Court Judge, where he served until 1945. He managed the successful U.S. Senate campaign of J. Melville Broughton in 1948, as well as the unsuccessful U.S. Senate campaign of Franklin P. Graham in 1950. The 1950 campaign was extremely controversial, with Graham's opponent, Willis Smith, using racist language and personal attacks on Graham to gather the support of white voters afraid of desegregation.
In that same year, 1950, Johnson was elected Associate Justice of the State Supreme Court. He served until forced to retire from illness in 1959. He died shortly afterward in 1960.
Joseph Jones (1727-1805) was a militia officer and customs collector, of Petersburg, Va.
1919, Oct. 18 Born in St. Louis, Mo., to Walter C. and Anna (Kensinger) Jones
1937 Graduated from Roosevelt High School
1938-1939 Nadine College of Advertising, St. Louis
1939-1940 Washington University
1941-1944 138th Infantry: Alaska; 337th CTD Pennsylvania
1944, Oct. 7 Married Alice May Guseman, Pa.
Children: Jeffrey Kensinger, b.1948; Janice Anne, b. 1950
1944-1952 Freelance writer, St. Louis, for Radio Stations KMOX and KSD, Premier Radio Enterprises, Gardner Advertising Agency, and local government and non-profit agencies
1952-1957, Aug. Leo Burnett Company, Chicago: Copywriter, Television and Radio Department; and TV Group Head (1955)
1957, Aug.-1967 Campbell-Ewald Company, Detroit: Creative Director for TV and Radio, Vice President, 1957-1960; Senior Vice President and Creative Director, 1960-1966; Executive Vice President and Creative Director, 1966-1967
1959 Grand Prix, Cannes International Film Festival, for "An American in Paris"
1961 Grand Prix, Cannes International Film Festival, for "The Magic Ride"
1968-1970 D.P. Brother Company, Detroit: Senior Vice President and Executive Creative Director
1971-1973, Mar. Leo Burnett Company, Chicago: Senior Vice President and Executive Creative Director
1973, Mar.-1974, Apr. Leo Burnett Pty. Ltd., Sydney, Australia: Regional Creative Director
1974, Apr.-Dec. Leo Burnett Pte. Ltd, Singapore, Malaysia: Regional Creative Director
1974, Dec. 31 Retired from Leo Burnett Company
1975-1976 Consultant to Leo Burnett Company, Chicago and Leo Burnett Pte., Ltd, Singapore, Malaysia
1975- Writer, farmer, Barry County, Mich.
1979 Wilding Advertising, Southfield, Mich.: Creative consultant
1981-1983 William R. Biggs/Gilmore, Kalamazoo, Mich.: Creative Supervisor
1982-1995 Lecturer, Department of Advertising, Michigan State University
1988 Visiting Lecturer, People's Republic of China, U.S. Exchange Program in Advertising
1990 Visiting Lecturer, Taipei, Taiwan and Jakarta, Indonesia
1992 Visiting Lecturer, Dalhousie University, Nova Scotia
1996 Professor Emeritus, Michigan State University
Other awards include the American Film Festival, Best of Automotive Award, 1961; Film Festival Hall of Fame for two commercials, 1965; and the American Freedoms Award, 1985
James A. Joseph is a Louisiana native who graduated from Southern University, Baton Rouge, and from Yale Divinity School. He is an ordained minister and is currently Professor of the Practice of Public Policy Studies and Leader-in-Residence at the Hart Leadership Program at Duke University. He is also responsible for launching the U.S.-Southern Africa Center for Leadership and Public Values.
Joseph has taught at Yale Divinity School and at Clairemont Colleges, where he served as chaplain. He was also active in the Louisiana Civil Rights movement during the 1960s. From 1971-1976 he worked as vice president of the Cummins Engine Co. and was president of the Cummins Engine Foundation. In 1977, he was appointed by President Carter to be the undersecretary of the Interior, where he served until 1981. He was also chairman of the presidentially appointed Commission on the Northern Mariannas under President Carter; a member of the Advisory Committee to the Agency for International Development under President Reagan; and an incorporating director of the Points of Light Foundation and a member of the Presidential Commission on Historically Black Colleges under President Bush. He is also a former president and CEO of the Council on Foundations, 1982-1995.
Joseph served as ambassador to South Africa from January 1996 to November 1999, and was the first and only U.S. ambassador to present his credentials to President Nelson Mandela. In recognition of Joseph's contributions, South African President Thabo Mbeki awarded him the Order of Good Hope, the highest honor the Republic of South Africa bestows on a citizen of another country. Before serving in South Africa, Joseph was the first chairman of the board of directors of President Clinton's Corporation for National Service.
This information is taken from his personal papers and from Joseph's biography as written on the Hart Leadership Program website.
Advertising columnists wrote daily newspaper columns on advertising and closely related subjects.
1962, Feb.-1964, July Executives in the J. Walter Thompson Company begin to discuss the preparation of a publication for the company's centennial year; potential authors are reviewed
1963, July Sidney Ralph Bernstein agrees to write the history; granted leave from Advertising Age where he was Editorial Director
1963, Aug. Marianne Keating, a J. Walter Thompson Company staff member, assigned as Bernstein's research assistant
1963-1964 Research materials collected, interviews conducted
1964, Sept. Manuscript reviewed by Norman H. Strouse
The JWT Chicago Office opened in 1891 by Charles Raymond.
Company founded in NY in 1864. The J. Walter Thompson company is one of the world's oldest and largest advertising firms.
1922, Sept. 8 Born on an Indian reservation near Tulsa, Oklahoma
1930s Grew up in New York City, where he studied art and planned to be a portrait painter
1943, March - Sept. Worked with WABC radio's wartime all-night record operation
1943, Sept. 10 - 1946, Mar. 8 In the Air Corps; advanced from private to corporal; worked in public relations and on corps newspapers
1947 Began his 34 year career at the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) as a mailroom messenger in the New York office. He shortly thereafter advanced to be a market research clerk.
1949, Jan. Appointed Junior Copywriter, assistant to Larry D'Aloise at JWT
1949, Sept. - 1951, Feb. Assigned to JWT-London's copy group; first American to join the London office after the WWII hiatus; worked on Pan American and Parker Pen accounts
1950, Dec. Started JWT/BMRB (British Market Research Bureau) News, renamed Round the Square, the London office's house publication
ca. 1950 Married Patricia Horan, an American who worked in the London office's Art Department
1951 Returned to New York Office
1952, April - 1953, Mar. Worked in Montreal office on Barrett and Dominion Glass accounts
1953 Rejoined New York office, writing on a variety of accounts including Ford international, Mosler Safe Co., Blue Cross, and J B. Williams
1953-1971 Worked on Ford account
1962-ca. 1978 Principal assignments consisted of Ford-Ford Division Magazine, Outdoor, Advance Projects and International
1965 Named a Vice President
1972, Oct. Sent to Paris office as Creative Director
1978 Proposed writing a history of JWT which he worked on for several years as a part-time JWT employee
1981 Retired from J. Walter Thompson Company
1986 November 27 Died in Pennsylvania
The J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT), founded in 1864, is one of the largest and oldest enduring advertising agencies in the United States. The Diamond Information Center (DIC) operates as the public relations division of the diamond marketing group at J. Walter Thompson on behalf of De Beers Consolidated Mines, Ltd.
Beginning in 1919 the New York Office of the J. Walter Thompson Company began to systematically retain the advertisements it had created. The Statistical and Information Department, renamed the Information and Records Department in the 1920s, arranged the advertisements in scrapbooks. Initially, most of the advertisements preserved were tear sheets, the actual advertisements clipped from newspapers and magazines. By the 1930s, however, the department retained the final printers' proofs for magazine advertisements. The scrapbooks therefore began to be called proof books.
In the 1950s the responsibility for creating proof books fell to individual account groups. In addition to the account group proof books, a file clerk under the supervision of the Traffic Department maintained proofs. When no longer of current use, the file clerk transferred the proofs to a storeroom or records center. Throughout these years, individuals who helped create campaigns or who managed an account sometimes would maintain personal proof books.
In 1977 the New York Office established a Creative Library. Its responsibilities included the preservation on microfilm of all print advertisements, which was done for most of the 1980s. Imprints are located in the JWT Microfilm Collection; the originals were apparently destroyed after microfilming. The Creative Library has made an effort to create files of work from all major U.S. offices, so work from Atlanta, Chicago, Detroit, Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Washington, D.C., is better represented in the collection from the late 1970s and after. Where known, the office that created the advertisements is noted in the container list. In addition, JWT subsidiaries such as Brouillard Communications or Lord Geller Federico and Einstein (LGFE) are noted where their work has been identified.
1935, Sept. 5 Born Harold Frank Clark, Jr., Norwalk, Conn.
1957 BA, Amherst College, Amherst, Mass.
1957-1959 MA, English Literature, Stanford University
1959 International Representative, JWT New York Office
1965 Account Supervisor, JWT Frankfurt Office
1967 PhD, English Literature, Columbia University; dissertation titled Dickensian Journalism: A Study in Household Words
1969 Director, JWT Frankfurt Office
1970 Managing Director, JWT Frankfurt Office; Management Supervisor on major accounts
1974 Senior Vice President of JWT, relocated to New York
1977 Group Account Director on Labatts, Reader's Digest and, in 1979, Burger King accounts
1983 Managing Director, Landsdowne Advertising, a division of JWT-USA
1984 Senior Vice President, Director of Communications and Development.
1988 Retired from JWT; co-founded Smith Clark Associates, a consulting firm based in Princeton, N.J.
2009 Feb. 4 Died, Princeton, N.J.
Clark served on the Princeton (N.J.) Borough Zoning Board, the Amenia (N.Y.) Zoning Board of Adjustment and the Master Planning Committee; member of the Board of Directors of the McCarter Theatre, Princeton Singers and Trenton Children's Chorus. He was also active in the theater and appeared in several local productions. [Sources: J. Walter Thompson Company Biographical Information; Princeton Town Topics obituary Feb. 18, 2009]
After graduating from Mount Holyoke College, Lois Gaeta worked at the J. Walter Thompson Company advertising agency as a script writer for television and radio commercials during the years 1955 through 1961. Later in her career, Gaeta worked in video and in continuing education programs in the medical profession.
1897 Sept. 3 Born in Mineapolis, Minnesota
1920 Earned Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Minnesota
1920-1921 Studied law and taught economics at the University of Minnesota
1921-1924 Joined J. Walter Thompson's Chicago Office and served as Director of Research
1925-1929 Appointed Pacific Coast Manager based at JWT's San Francisco Office
1929-1932 Manager of JWT's Berlin Office and supervised Vienna and Warsaw offices
1932-1936 Returned to JWT Chicago as Account Representative for Swift, Elgin and Northern Trust Co. accounts
1936-1942 Elected Vice President of JWT
1942-1945 Served as Lt. Commander, a Member of the Office of Strategic Services Planning Group
1946 Joined JWT's New York Office as an Account Representative
1949 Elected Director of JWT
1952 Elected Director of J. Walter Thompson Ltd. (Canada)
1955 Elected to JWT's Board of Directors Executive Committee
1961 Became a Senior Vice President of JWT
1964 Jan. Retired from JWT
1982 July 22 Died in Baltimore, Maryland
Active in advertising trade association work at his retirement, Hinks was a Director of The Advertising Council. He was a director of the Youth Consultation Service and the Manhattan-Westchester Division of the National Council of Christians and Jews, and a Director and Council Member of the Association for the Aid of Crippled Children.
The Information Center was founded by the J. Walter Thompson Company New York Office in 1918. The records contain several folders detailing efforts to reorganize and expand the Center's services in the mid-1950s. Included are reports describing the purpose of the Center personnel recruitment efforts, and readings about ways to organize office files. In 1980, some of these records were transferred to the J. Walter Thompson Company Archives, which was established in New York in 1979. Some of the files remained active in the Archives until the records were transferred to Duke University in 1987.
Born July 11, 1918; attended Mizen Academy of Art 1938-1939; U.S. Army during World War II, rank of Sargeant; Art Director, Foote Cone & Belding 1946-1955; Art Director, Campbell-Mithun 1955-1956; Art Director, Maxon 1956; Art Director, Needham Louis & Borey 1956-1962. JWT Chicago: Art Director 1962; Vice President 1964; Creative Director 1967; resigned 1973.
1927 Born George Donald Johnston, Elmira, NY
1950 B.S., Summa Cum Laude, in Journalism and Economics, Michigan State University
1951 Began career with JWT as a trainee in Detroit Office mail room
1952 M.A with Honors in International Economics, School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University. Johnston attended on a JWT scholarship.
1952 Assistant International Account Representative, JWT New York
1953 Representative, JWT Colombia
1956 Account Representative and Account Supervisor, JWT New York
1961 Managing Director, JWT Amsterdam
1964 Managing Director, JWT Tokyo
1966 Vice President-Europe, JWT Frankfurt
1967 Vice President-Europe, JWT London
1971 Senior Vice President, JWT Latin America
1972 Member of Board of Directors and Executive Committee
Executive Vice President-International JWT New York
1974 President and CEO of JWT Company
1978 Chairman of JWT
1980 Chairman of newly formed JWT Group Inc.
Chairman of American Association of Advertising Agencies
Won International Advertising Association Annual Award.
1986 Established Sarita and Don Johnston Professorship in Latin American Studies at Johns Hopkins University
1987 Retired from JWT
Upon retirement from the JWT, Johnston was named Chairman of the International Executive Service Corps. Johnston is currently a Trustee Emeritus of Johns Hopkins University.
Founded in 1864, the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) is one of the oldest and largest enduring advertising agencies in the United States. It is headquartered in New York. The London Office first opened in 1899. David Baker was an executive with JWT London and JWT Europe 1968-2001. Reading University 1968 (Mathematics); JWT London: Media Department Trainee 1968; Account Planning 1970; Associate Director 1975; Account Representative(Persil) 1976; Director in Charge of Accounts 1980; Head of Planning, JWT Europe, Worldwide Director for Thompson Total Branding 1997; retired 2001.
Founded in 1864, the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) is one of the oldest and largest enduring advertising agencies in the United States. The JWT London Office opened in 1899. Terry Bullen was an advertising executive at the JWT London Office who worked in New Business and as Director of Planning before retiring in 2001.
Advertising executive with J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) London Office and Director of JWT European operations. Joined JWT London 1961; Associate Director of the London Office 1966; London Board of Directors 1971; Deputy Director, JWT European Region 1985; Chief Executive and Managing Director, JWT London, 1985; Director JWT UK Group Ltd. 1985; President, JWT Europe 1986.
Advertising executive and media specialist with J. Walter Thompson Company's London Office and JWT Europe.
JWT Sydney 1970-1976; Assistant Media Director, JWT London 1976-1984; Media Director, JWT London 1984; JWT Worldwide Board 1992; Chairman, JWT Worldwide Media Group 1995-1997; Managing Partner, Mindshare Worldwide, 1998-2000; Chairman, CIA International Media Unit, 2000-2002; Global Development Director, ECI Media Management, circa 2013-2015.
Founded in 1864, the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) is one of the oldest and largest enduring advertising agencies in the United States. It is headquartered in New York. The London Office first opened in 1899. Charles Friend was an executive in the JWT London Office and Area Director with JWT's European Division. Friend came to JWT from Norman Craig & Kummel where he was an international management specialist. At JWT, Friend served as Managing Director and President of JWT Peru before transferring to the London Office as Area Director with JWT Europe.
Founded in 1864, the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) is one of the oldest and largest enduring advertising agencies in the United States. The London Office first opened in 1899.
Founded in 1864, the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) is one of the oldest and largest enduring advertising agencies in the United States. It is headquartered in New York. The JWT London office first opened in 1899. Anthony Rau was an executive with the London office whose career spanned the 1960s-1980s.
Company founded in NY in 1864. The archives document the history, operations, policies, and accomplishments of one of the world's oldest, largest and most innovative advertising firms. These files came from the New York Office's Information Center.
1895 September 22 Born, Nashville, Tennessee
1913 Graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy
1917 Commissioned as 2nd lieutenant, U.S. Marine Corps August 27
Received A.B. from Yale University, New Haven, Conn.;
1918 Promoted to 1st lieutenant and then temporary captain, U.S.Marine Corps
1919 Decorated with the Silver Star, the Purple Heart with one Oak Leaf Cluster; France's Croix de Guerre with Palm; the Victory Medal with Aisne-Marne, St. Mihiel and Defensive Sector clasps and three bronze stars; and the French Fourragere for valiant service.
Discharged April 3.
1920 Joined the Charles W. Hoyt Co.
1921 October 14 Married Priscilla Mitchel
1922-1970 Served on the board of Time Magazine
1925 Joined J. Walter Thompson as manager of the London office
1929 J. Walter Thompson Co. opened offices in Argentina, Australia, Canada, India, Poland, and Uruguay
1930 Returned to New York office, elected Vice President and Director of International Operations
1940-1944 Served as a Special Consultant to the Secretary of the Navy for Air and member of the Navy Civilian Advisory Committee. Made several trips to the Pacific area and visited the Carribean and South America for the Navy.
1945 Awarded a Presidential Citation by President Truman and a Navy Distinguished Service Medal
1946 Invited to join a Civilian Advisory Committee to work with the Navy on its postwar program. Upon the recommendation of the Army, Navy, and Marines, awarded the Medal for Merit for his service to the U.S. Navy.
1949 Awarded the Navy's Distinguished Public Service Award for outstanding services to the U.S. during World War II.
1955 Promoted to Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of J. Walter Thompson Co.
1956 One of five purchasers of The Greenwich Times, Greenwich, Conn.
1959 Helped to found The Episcopalian
1962-1981 Operated Walker and Company, a book publisher
1964 January 28 Retired from the J. Walter Thompson Co.
1964-1969 President and Director of the Rome Daily American in Italy
1981 August 15 Died in a Greenwich, Connecticut hospital of complications following a heart attack
1891 Feb. 1 Born in Philipsburg, Pennsylvania
1910-1914 Earned A. B. from Mount Holyoke College
ca. 1916 Worked as a social worker in Rhode Island and New York
ca. 1917 Organized Hostesses, Inc., a service bureau that arranged parties, shopping, etc.
1928 May 2 Began working at JWT's New York Office in the Women's Editorial Department
1929 Jan. 1 Transferred to the JWT Personality Department
1959 Jan. 31 Retired from JWT
1963 Jan. 7 Died
For more biographical information on Lucille Turnbach Platt, see the JWT Archives Personnel Files and similar information in the Biographical Files.
Harry A. Lee Biography
1910 Jan. 10 Born, Santa Monica, Calif.
1920s-1931 Educated at Principia High School, St. Louis, Missouri and Stanford University
1931 McCarty Advertising Agency, Los Angeles
1936 Media research, junior account representative, JWT San Francisco Office
1942-1945 Commissioned Lieutenant J.G. Commanded naval air patrols from Canal Zone, Central and South America. Later a navigator for Naval Air Transport Service, Pacific and Far East areas. Discharged after the war as a Lieutenant Commander
1945 Founded and operated Philippine Advertising Associates Inc., in Manila and Japan Advertising Associates in Tokyo
1955 Sold agencies to JWT and rejoined the agency as Vice President and Pacific Area Manager
1958-1963 Director of School Board, Hillsborough, Calif.
1961 Chairman, Advertising Committee, Invest in America
1960-1964 San Francisco Chamber of Commerce: Director and member of the Executive Committee (1960-1964); President (1962-1963); Chairman, Board of Directors (1964)
Founded in 1864, the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) is one of the oldest and largest enduring advertising agencies in the United States. It is headquartered in New York. William L. (Bill) Sharfman was an executive who worked in strategic planning for JWT USA in New York as well as for the JWT subsidiary Brouillard Communications before opening the Sharfman & Co. agency.
William L. Sharfman was born in 1942. Sharfman graduated from the University of Michigan (BA, 1964) and Columbia University (MA, 1965; PhD, 1969). Sharfman taught at Columbia (Preceptor and Lecturer, 1966-1970) and Idaho State University (Dept. of English, 1970-1972). Sharfman worked at Time Sharing Information Services (President, 1972-1973); Metragraphic Systems (Vice-President, 1973-1976); J. Walter Thompson (Research and Planning, 1976-1978; Senior Vice-President, Strategic Planning, 1982-1985) and Brouillard Communications (Planning Director, 1978-1982). Sharfman opened the Sharfman & Co. agency in 1985.
Founded in 1864, the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) is one of the oldest and largest enduring advertising agencies in the United States. It is headquartered in New York.
Founded in 1864, the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT) is one of the oldest and largest enduring advertising agencies in the United States.
The Great Kanto earthquake struck the Japanese island of Honshu at 11:58 a.m. on September 1, 1923. With a magnitude of 8.3 on the Richter scale, the earthquake leveled Tokyo and the surrounding areas of Yokohama, Chiba, Kanagawa, and Shizouka. Along with the destruction of buildings and land, the earthquake resulted in widespread fires, as many people had been cooking their lunch around the time that the earthquake struck. A simultaneous typhoon in Northern Japan led to high winds that caused firestorms in cities across the region.
Estimated casualties from the earthquake and the resulting fires range from 100,000 to 150,000 people. About 2 million people were left homeless. Over the next several years, Tokyo was rebuilt with stricter safety standards, and more parks were added to offer open spaces as refuges. In 1960, the Japanese government declared September 1 to be Disaster Prevention Day.
Wallace Vickers Kaufman was born April 10th, 1939 in Queens, New York Kaufman came to Duke University to study English in 1957, taking his A.B. in 1961. He also studied at Merton College at Oxford University as a Marshall Scholar from 1961-1963.
Along with fellow classmates and writers Fred Chappel and Anne Tyler, Kaufman's writing was fosterd under the direction of William Blackburn. Also while at Duke Kaufman developed a close student-mentor relationship with author Reynolds Price. Kaufman and Price continued to correspond well into Kaufman's own professional career. After graduating, Kaufman taught high school sciences courses, middle school English, and writing courses at Duke University and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. While a resident of Chatham County, Kaufman developed an interest in land development projects that included caveats for environmental protection. An extension of this interest led to involvment with, among otehr regional and national environmental organizations, the Conservation Council of North Carolina (CCNC), an organization that Kaufman eventually chaired. Kaufman also served on several local and state boards of realtors, the North Carolina Land Stewardship Council, and Conservation Fund, North Carolina. At this time, Kaufman also travelled extensively in Latin America. During his travels Kaufman promoted indigenous writers, particularly Guatemalan writer Victor Dinoicio Montejo.
In the mid-1990s Kaufman began consulting work for the World Bank and the International City/County Management Association in nations of the former Soviet Union and Eastern Bloc, including Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland and Kazakhstan, the final Soviet Republic to declare independence. This work encompassed a broad scope of work including advising local residents on land and housing reform, teaching property valuation, investigating the effectiveness of aid projects, economic surveys, and some work training local journalists. In 2001 Kaufman relocated to western Oregon where he began a career in arbitration and mediation.
Frances Anne "Fanny" Kemble was a British actress, writer, and abolitionist. She was born into a theater family; her acting career spanned the years 1829-1868. Kemble acted to support herself, but she was most passionate about writing, and was an accomplished playwright, poet, and diarist. She married Pierce Mease Butler, an American who subsequently inherited his family's plantations. After spending time in Georgia, Kemble became an abolitionist and later divorced her husband. In 1863, Kemble published her anti-slavery memoir, Journal of a Residence on a Georgian Plantation in 1838-1839, which is said to have influenced the British against supporting the Confederacy in the Civil War. Kemble's own family was divided on that issue, as her elder daughter sided with her mother, while her younger daughter returned to Georgia with her father. Frances Butler Leigh published Ten Years on a Georgia Plantation Since the War (1883) as a rebuttal to her mother's memoir. Kemble's success as a Shakespearean actress enabled her to buy a cottage in Lenox, Mass. Her correspondent, Miss Patteson, is the daughter of Frances Duke Patteson, a niece of the poet Samuel Coleridge Taylor; the Lord Coleridge mentioned in the letter is John Duke Coleridge (1820-1894), the 2nd Lord Chief Justice of England. Bishop Patteson refers to Miss Patteson's sister, John Patteson (1827-1871), who became an Anglican martyr after being killed doing mission work in the Solomon Islands.
Born in Hungary, André Kertész (1894-1985) was known for his mastery of composition with light, his experimental photography, and for his street photography and portraiture. After living in Paris for a decade and developing his style as a photographer and photojournalist, he immigrated to the U.S. in 1936, where he continued his work. After World War II, Kertész became a naturalized U.S. citizen, returning in subsequent years to France and other places around the world to take photographs.
After practicing as a photojournalist in Europe and in the United States for a good part of his career, in the early 1960s he pulled away from this type of work for good, and enjoyed a period of growing and widespread acknowledgment of the quality of his work. He died in 1985 in New York City.
Susan Ketchin was an author, editor, and educator.
Robin Kirk is the Faculty co-chair of the Duke University Human Rights Center at the Franklin Humanities Institute and is a founding member of the Pauli Murray Project, an initiative of the center that seeks to use the legacy of this Durham daughter to examine the region's past of slavery, segregation and continuing economic inequality. An author and human rights advocate, Kirk is a lecturer in the Department of Cultural Anthropology and directs the Human Rights Certificate. An essayist and award-winning poet, she has published widely on issues as diverse as the Andes, torture, the politics of memory, family life and pop culture. Kirk authored, co-authored and edited over twelve reports for Human Rights Watch. In the 1980s, Kirk reported for U.S. media from Peru, where she covered the war between the government and the Shining Path. She continues to write for US media, and has been published in The New York Times, Washington Post, Sojourners, The American Scholar, the Raleigh News and Observer, the Boston Globe, the Durham Herald Sun and other media.
Born Reva Fine, in New York, N.Y. 1927. AB English and Philosophy, Hunter College. Copywriter at Gimbels department store 1949-1951; Macy's 1951-1953. Junior copywriter at Ogilvy & Mather 1953. Career at Ogilvy & Mather: Senior Vice President 1962; Associate Copy Chief 1963; first female elected to Board of Directors 1975; U.S. Creative Head 1980; retired 1983. Published novel "Having It All" in 1991. Died 2008.
Advertising executive who worked for Benton & Bowles and Young & Rubicam agencies in New York, Germany and Sweden. Born 1929. Graduate Pratt Institute (Advertising Design) 1950. Started career at Benton & Bowles as an apprentice Art Director(New York) 1950. Military service 1951-1953; Young & Rubicam: Television Art Director, Art Supervisor (New York)1953-1964; Associate Creative Director (New York) 1964-1968; Vice President/Creative Director (Frenkfurt, Germany) 1968-1970; Vice President/Creative Director (Stockholm, Sweden) 1970-1973; Associate Creative Director/Director of Television and Radio Production (Frankfurt) 1973-1975; Associate Creative Director (New York) 1975-1978. Benton & Bowles: Creative Supervisor (New York) 1978-1986. Freelance: Blakemore & Killough, and Baumwoll & Tannen 1986-1987.
The drama Mad Men ran on the AMC network 2007-2015.
An educator, writer, and critic, Leary taught at Duke and Columbia Universities, and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
Sarah Wallis Bowdich Lee was a white English author, illustrator, traveller, zoologist, botanist, and pteridologist.
Clare Leighton was born in England in 1898. She studied at Brighton College of Art and the Central and Slade Schools in London. Leighton is best known for her books of stories and illustrations of agrarian subjects and the American South. The artist was a member of Duke University's Department of Art, Aesthetics, and Music from 1943 to 1945 and was awarded several prizes for her artistic achievements.
For more information, see Hickman, Caroline. "Clare Leighton and the American South." Duke Library Magazine Vol. 17, No. 3 (Spring/Summer 2004).
1933 Born in Stockholm, Sweden
1960 BA, University of Lund
1961 MA, University of Pittsburgh
1964 Acting Assistant Professor, University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA)
1967 PhD, Economics, Northwestern University
1967 Assistant Professor, UCLA
1968 On Keynesian Economics and the Economics of Keynes: A Study in Monetary Theory
1971-1994 Professor, UCLA
1991-1997 Founder and Director of Center for Computable Economics, UCLA
1995-2008 Professor of Monetary Theory and Policy, University of Trento
2000 Macroeconomic Instability and Coordination: Selected Essays
2007-2011 Wrote over a dozen articles for Council of Economic Policy Research (CEPR) and VoxEU on fiscal crises of European Union
2022 May 02 Died in Los Angeles, CA
Advertising agency founded 1935 in Chicago, Ill. Robert MacDonald Lester (1889-1969) was an author, teacher and employee of the Carnegie Institute of New York. His published works include Forty Years of Carnegie Giving (1941). Lester was also the recording secretary of the Council of Southern Universities and executive director of the Southern Fellowships Fund.
Liggett and Myers (now Liggett Group, Inc.) was founded in 1873 in Durham, N.C. The company became a major force in the tobacco industry offering such cigarettes as Fatima, a leading national brand in the early part of the 20th century.
Jere Hudson Link was born on June 12, 1951, in Mobile, Alabama. He graduated with honors from McGill Institute High School in Mobile in 1969. He attended the University of Alabama, received his undergraduate degree with special honors in German from the University of Texas at Austin (1973), a Master of Arts in Comparative Literature from University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (1975) and his Ph.D. in History from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (1988). Jere was awarded the Fulbright Scholarship in his pursuit of his graduate studies. During his career he taught at Virginia Tech, The Westminster Schools, Pace Academy, and Kennesaw State University. He was honored as Georgia Star Teacher of the Year in 1997 and regional Star Teacher in 1993 and 2004. He died in Atlanta, Georgia, on March 15, 2018.
Nestia V. Lloyd (b. 1902) was an unmarried woman who lived with her parents in London and near Colwyn Bay in Wales during the years 1923, 1924, and 1925.
Archivist and historian; chief of Foreign Affairs Branch at the U.S. National Archives.
The "Looking at Appalachia" project was launched in February 2014 and is directed by Roger May. The advisory board members are Rob Amberg, Pete Brook, John Edwin Mason, Joy Salyers, and Elaine McMillion Sheldon. The editorial board is comprised of Aaron Blum, Chris Fowler, Kate Fowler, Pat Jarrett, Megan King, Raymond Thompson, Jr., and Susan Worsham.
Roger May is an Appalachian American photographer currently living in Raleigh, North Carolina. He was born in the Tug River Valley, located on the West Virginia and Kentucky state line, in the heart of what is commonly known as Hatfield and McCoy country. He served in the Army for seven years. His photographs and essays have been published in National Geographic, The Oxford American, The Guardian, THE WEEK, The Bitter Southerner, Appalachian Heritage, and others.
The exhibit images are the work of 51 photographers. Please refer to the project’s website for links to individual photographer biographies. Featured artists: Dobree Adams, Rob Amberg, Elle Olivia Andersen, Nathan Armes, Mike Baker, Josh Birnbaum, Cordis Bishop, Aaron Blum, Brett Carlsen, Micah Cash, Matthew Conboy, Katie Currid, George Etheredge, Gloria Baker Feinstein, Wes Frazer, Amanda Greene, Justin Hamel, Mary Hamilton, Ashley Hoffman, Chris Jackson, Pat Jarrett, Rebecca Kiger, Megan King, John Edwin May, Roger May, Michael McCraw, Maddie McGarvey, Rachel Molenda, Andrea Morales, Pat Owens, Nic Persinger, Alan Pittman, Lauren Pond, Jared Ragland, Tamara Reynolds, Jake Reinhart, Dennis Savage, Joseph Oliver Shay, Michael Sherwin, Stephen Speranza, Melissa Stallard, Ryan Stone, Bob Tankersley, Kristian Thacker, Mark Trent, Pang Tubhirun, Dave Wharton, Meg Wilson, Sean Wysong, Rachel Yoke, and Joshua Yospyn.
Alice Houston Luiggi was an author, of New York City.
Founded in 1937 in Clarkesville (Habersham Co.), Ga. by Morris Randolph Mitchell; took name from nearby Baptist Church; comprised of families and individuals who worked collectively on the dairy, agricultural, forestry, and woodworking projects which provided the economic underpinnings of the community; originally an economic cooperative, Macedonia later passed through two distinct phases before its demise in 1958; at end of WWII an infusion of former civilian public service men, including conscientious objectors who had served prison sentences, joined the cooperative bringing an emphasis on pacifism; last stages of cooperative lasted from 1953-1957 when members of group explored the possibility of merging with the religious community known as the Society of Brothers (Bruderhof); in 1958 Macedonia ceased to be a separate community and property was sold at public auction on June 27, 1958.
Resident of Marianna, Fla.
MacRae family of North Carolina and Florida.
1826, Dec. 1 Born Monroe, Southhampton Co., Va.
1847 Graduated from Virginia Military Institute, Lexington, Va.
1850 Became Assistant Engineer of the Orange and Alexandria Railroad
1852 Became Chief Engineer, Fredericksburg and Valley Plank Road Company
1855 Married Otelia Butler
1861 Became President and Chief Engineer of the Norfolk and Petersburg Railroad
1861 Commissioned Brigadier General in the Confederate Army
1863 Elected to the Virginia State Senate
1864 Commanded unit known as "Mahone's Brigade" at the Battle of the Petersburg Crater
1865 Simultaneously became President of both the Norfolk and Petersburg Railroad and the South Side Railroad
1870 Created the privately owned Atlantic, Mississippi, and Ohio Railroad (AMandO)
1877 Defeated in seeking the Virginia Democratic gubernatorial nomination
1879 Organized and assumed leadership of the Readjuster Party in Virginia
1880 Elected to the United States Senate and pledged his allegiance to the Republican Party
1882 Became Chairman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture
1886 Ran unsuccessfully for reelection to the United States Senate
1889 Ran unsuccessfully for Governor of Virginia on the Republican ticket
1895, Oct. 8 Died in Washington, D.C. Buried in Petersburg, Va., where the Daughters of the Confederacy erected a monument to him
Michael Malone is a novelist and television writer from Durham, North Carolina. Educated at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and Harvard University, Malone taught at the University of Pennsylvania and Yale but is best known for his work as an author and a writer for the soap operas One Life to Live and Another World. Malone won a 1994 Daytime Emmy Award for Best Writing for his work on One Life to Live. Malone is married to Maureen Quilligan, a professor of English at Duke University. The couple reside at Burnside, a historic home in Hillsborough, N.C.
Selected Publications
The Delectable Mountains (1976)
Dingley Falls (1980)
Handling Sin (1983)
Time's Witness (1989)
Foolscap: Or, the Stages of Love (1991)
Uncivil Seasons (1993)
First Lady (2001)
Red Clay, Blue Cadillac: Stories of Twelve Southern Women (2002)
The Last Noel (2003)
The Killing Club (2005)
Mama Galore was a group of East Coast Drag show performers that appeared in New York City, Philadelphia, North and South Carolina, and Florida, among other locales.
David Mamet, b. 30 Nov., 1947, Chicago; was a writer, director, producer, and actor; sometimes credited as Richard Weisz.
Born on July 28, 1908 in Brooklyn, New York, Morris Margolin spent most of his life in the New York metropolitan area. He graduated from New York University (NYU) in 1926 and taught accounting at Far Rockaway High School in Queens, New York from 1933 to 1940. Morris was the founding partner of Margolin, Winer & Evans, an accounting firm established in Jamaica, New York, in 1946 that later moved to Garden City, Long Island. He was also a charter member and former president of the Jamaica, Queens, chapter of B'nai B'rith, a global Jewish community service organization.
In 1936, Morris married Dorothy Safran. Dorothy was born to Polish parents in Budapest, Hungary, on July 28, 1911. Her family emigrated to the United States in 1913 and settled in New York City. Dorothy graduated from NYU, where she studied Spanish language and culture, and also did graduate work. Dorothy was a lover of the arts and an active member of Women Strike for Peace. The couple had two daughters: Elaine, born in 1940, and Linda, born in 1944.
Morris was an amateur filmmaker, photography enthusiast, and classical music aficionado. The Margolins were avid travelers, taking an extensive series of international trips. Morris documented their travels through his photography and filmmaking and then shared his films with fellow members of the Metropolitan Film Club in Manhattan and at B'nai B'rith functions. The couple also hosted screenings in their home for friends and family.
Morris retired in 1970, and the Margolins soon moved to Palm Beach, Florida, where Morris continued to share his films and photos with new friends. Morris passed away in 1990, Dorothy in 2007.
Eugene Marshall (1832-1919), born in North Bridgewater, Massachusetts, was a surveyor, farmer, and banker who served as a volunteer in the Union Army during the Civil War and Sioux Wars (1862-1865) while with units known successively as Curtis' Horse, the 5th Iowa Cavalry, and Brackett's Battalion. He married Elizabeth "Lizzie" Williams (1843-1895) in 1866 following his medical discharge from the Army. They had four children together: Ella Fannie (1868-1888), Hayward (1870-1923), Anna Olive (1876-1967), and Ethel Eugenia (1880-1958). Marshall left his family home early and spent most of his adult civilian life in Minnesota and Iowa, and his retirement years in Manchester, Tennessee. While on his travels in and out of uniform, he recorded a wealth of observations concerning the events, people, and environments in each area. Marshall supplemented his observations with accounts of his own participation in politics and economic endeavors, as well as commentary on national figures and events. His experiences in the Midwest and the South are complemented by letters from his sister who had remained in North Bridgewater.
Thomas Mayer (1927-2015) was a white Austrian-American academic economist who was born in Vienna in 1927 and emigrated to Britain in 1938. He graduated with a PhD from Columbia University in 1953 and taught at West Virginia University, the University of Notre Dame, Michigan State University, and the University of California, Berkeley before finally settling at the University of California, Davis. He studied monetary policy and economic methodology.
John Moore McCalla was a lawyer, Democratic politician, brigadier general of Kentucky militia, and second auditor of the United States. He was the son of Dr. Andrew J. and Martha (More) McCalla. John McCalla married Maria Frances Hogg and had three sons, Dr. John M. McCalla, Jr.; Andrew J. McCalla; and Thomas McCalla. Dr. John M. McCalla, Jr. married Helen Varnum Hill and they had a daughter names Isabel Hill McCalla. Isabel married Edmond Lee Goldsborough and had three children: Edmond Lee, John McCalla, and Helen Louisa.
McCalla attended Transylvania University in Lexington, Kentucky. He joined the Lexington Light Artillery Co. in 1812 and found himself part of the Fifth Regiment of Kentucky Volunteer Militia. The Kentucky troops were sent to the relief of besieged Frenchtown on River Raisin, Michigan, where they underwent massacre and imprisonment when General James Winchester surrendered on Jan. 22, 1813.
After his military career, McCalla Sr. became interested in many different areas. He had political ambitions along with studying law. He became the U.S. Marshal of Kentucky, and on March 31, 1845 was appointed second auditor of the U. S. Treasury under James Polk's administration. His term lasted until 1849, at which time he focused on his law practice. McCalla was an ardent Democrat and was welcomed to the American Party in 1854. He was a political opponent of Henry Clay and a supporter of Andrew Jackson. Following the war he supported Andrew Johnson.
Dr. John McCalla Jr. worked as a clerk and physician during the Civil War. He also traveled to Liberia as part of the American Colonization Society in 1860.
William Allen McFadden (1904-1991), Methodist minister from Indiana, graduate of DePauw, Boston University School of Theology, and Union Seminary in New York. He was a lifelong pacifist and social justice worker. His wife was Glenora English McFadden (1910-2001) and her mother was Estella Graves English (1885-1960). The McFaddens had three children: Margaret McFadden (whose papers are also housed in the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture), Edith Collins, and David McFadden.
John B. McFerrin was a professor of finance at the University of Florida, as well as a past president of the Southern Economic Association. His Ph.D. was from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, with his dissertation on Caldwell and Company. McFerrin's book, Caldwell and Company: A Southern Financial Empire, was first published in 1939 and updated in 1969.
Caldwell and Company was founded in Nashville in 1917 by Rogers C. Caldwell. Originally a municipal bonds distributor, the company grew rapidly--first selling real estate bonds and industrial securities, and later acquiring ownership and interests in banks (including the Bank of Tennessee), newspapers, and other ventures, including Nashville's professional baseball team. By 1929, it was the largest investment banking house in the south.
All was not well with the company's finances, however. Rogers Caldwell charged his personal expenses to the company, securities were substituted unethically, and the business had inadequate cash reserves to legally cover its investments. Caldwell and Company also became involved in state politics, financially backing Colonel Luke Lea and his interests. (Lea was also from Nashville, a former United States Senator, and a newspaper publisher.) Lea's influence with the state government, including Governor Henry Horton, led to significant deposits of Tennessee money into Caldwell banks, bypassing competitive bidding for state-funded projects. In September 1930, bank examiners discovered the low cash reserves, and on November 7 the Bank of Tennessee was declared insolvent. The collapse of Caldwell and Company immediately followed, including runs on other company-owned banks across the South. On November 14, 1930, the company went into receivership.
John Sidney (1913-1999) and Doris (1918-1998) McGee were appointed on April 11th, 1945 by the Foreign Mission Board of the Southern Baptist Convention to Nigeria, where they served eight consecutive terms. Their primary role was that of "missionary advisors," or "field evangelism" for church development. They served at the Baptist College of Iwo from 1945-1948, and then at the Baptist Mission in Igede-Ekiti (Western Nigeria) and Ikogosi from 1949-1977. In 1956, they helped establish the sixth Baptist high school in Nigeria: the Ekiti Baptist High School, in Igede. In 1957, they were made "Chief Gbaiyegun of Igede," by the Onigede and Chiefs of Igede-Ekiti. In 1961, they were made paramount chief by the Ewi of Ado, on behalf of the Ekiti Baptist Association. In 1977, they were made "Chief Akorewolu of Ikogosi" by Loja and Chiefs of Ikogosi-Ekiti. The couple retired in 1978 after thirty-three years of missionary service.
John Sidney and Doris had two sons, John David (b. 1943) and Sidney (b. 1948). The McGees' children stayed with them in Nigeria until John David returned to the US for high school in 1958, where he stayed with a foster family. Much of the correspondence between family members takes place when the McGee children are in the United States to finish their education.
Charles C. Chick McKinney was born in 1931 in Newdale, N.C., and raised in Spruce Pine, N.C. Between 1950-1952, he attended the University of Tennessee, where he majored in Industrial Management. He received a degree in Business Administration from the University of North Carolina's School of Business in 1957. McKinney began his career in 1957 at the J.T. Howard advertising agency in Raleigh, N.C. There, he served as Creative Director and member of the board. In 1968, McKinney founded the McKinney & Silver advertising agency, and he served as President and Chief Executive Officer until 1990. The agency grew to one of the largest advertising agencies in the Southeastern U.S.
McKinney received over 500 major awards from creative and advertising competitions, and some of his work appeared in The One Show exhibit in New York City, the New York Advertising Club Show, the American Television Commercials Festival, and the Communication Arts Show. In 1973, an Ad Daily poll named one of the top creative people in America.
In addition, McKinney also served as a judge in many advertising competitions around the U.S., including for the Communication Arts competition in California. He was frequently asked to speak at business and industry group meetings, including for the Magazine Publishers Association. He also served as a trustee of the North Carolina Symphony, and was a member of the National Trust for Historic Preservation, the Sphinx Club, the Carolina Country Club and the Figure Eight Yacht Club, among others.
McKinney died Sept. 12, 2007 in Raleigh, N.C.
Entomologist (termite biology), psychologist, cartoonist, writer of children's books, and ocean traveler. McMahan is credited with 59 publications, many under the name E. A. McMahan, including 11 children's books.
1924 Born, Davie County, N.C.
1946 A.B., Duke University, Major in Psychology
1948 M.A. in Psychology, Duke University
1943-1954 Research Assistant, Parapsychology Laboratory, Duke University. Close friend of Rhine family.
1960 Ph.D, Entomology, University of Hawaii
1960-1961 Post-doctoral work, Zoology, University of Chicago
1961-1987 Professor, Department of Biology, UNC-Chapel Hill. Received outstanding teaching award in 1970.
1987-1988 Peace Corps, College of Agriculture, Port Antonio, Jamaica
1989 Received North Carolina Entomological Society's Award of Excellence for contributions to entomology.
1989-2009 Retired to Carolina Meadows, a retirement community in Chapel Hill, N.C.
2009 Died, Chapel Hill, N.C.
1912 Nov. 26 Born, Pensacola, Fla.
1934 Graduated from Florida State College for Women with a degree in literature and history
1934-1937 Taught in Northwest Florida high schools
1939 Graduated from Scarritt College in Nashville with a Masters degree in Christian Education
1939 Aug. 31 Arrived in Japan
1941 Feb. 29 Forced to return to the United States
1942 Took courses in Japanese language at the University of California, Berkeley, and lived in the International House
1943 Taught at the Topaz Relocation Center in Topaz, Utah
1944 Graduated from the Nashville School of Social Work with a Masters in Social Science
1945 Served as a child welfare worker in Escambia County, Fla.
1947 Jan. 7 Became the first Protestant missionary to return to Hiroshima after World War II
1948 Jan. 19 Held the first service of the Ushita Christian Church in her home
1952 Dec. Mother died
1980 Named the sixth Special Honorary Citizen of Hiroshima
Named Professor Emerita at Hiroshima Jo Gakuin College
1980 May 26 Left Hiroshima for a six-month furlough prior to her official retirement
1980 Dec. 1 Officially retired from service
1984 Aug. Returned to Hiroshima as a special guest of the city and took part in the memorial ceremony at Peace Park
1991 July 19 Died in Lake Chautauqua, N.Y., at a missionary's conference
Veronica Melendez is a visual artist currently based in Washington, D.C. She received her MFA from the University of Hartford and BFA from the Corcoran College of Art and Design. From illustrations of iconic household products to photographs documenting the diaspora of Central Americans within the D.C. metro area, her work is greatly influenced by her Latinx upbringing. Melendez is the 2018 recipient of the Duke University Archive of Documentary Arts Collection Award for Documentarians of the American South.
Isabella Grant Meredith was a playwright in New York, N.Y.
Frank Baker was a scholar, editor, collector, and Duke University faculty member specializing in the history of English and American Methodist history, and of the life and career of minister John Wesley.
Terence Mitchell is a card collector and co-author of American Tobacco Cards: Price Guide and Checklist, published by Tuff Stuff Publications, 1999.
The cards in this collection include both nineteenth and twentieth century card sets, many of which were classified as N (for Nineteenth Century) or T (for Twentieth Century) cards by Jefferson Burdick in his foundational work on card collecting, American Card Catalog (published 1951). There are hundreds of different N card series from numerous tobacco companies; only a small selection of examples are included in this collection. The T card series includes Premium Cards (T1-T16); Insert Cards (T25-T139); and Carton Panels (T175-T177). T numbers have been included if provided by Mitchell.
Dr. Marcel Montassut, a French psychiatrist, was born on August 14, 1897. Professionally, Montassut worked in the Centre Neuro-Psychiatrique de Moiselles as an interim director in 1940, as well as at the Hôpital Psychiatrique de Villejuif as Médecin-Chef from 1942 to 1960. During World War I and World War II, he served as a medical assistant and doctor. Montassut also held the presidency of the Société Française de Médécine Psychosomatique in 1960. He married in 1937 and spent much of his career in Villejuif. During his lifetime, Montassut published many articles on depression, epilepsy, fatigue, and psychosomatics. He worked closely with Léon Chertok, a well-known French psychiatrist. Montassut died in 1975.
1941, Jan. 29 Born in Lake Worth, Fla.
1956 Graduated with Honors from the Wetter School
1956-1959 Student with private tutors at Columbia University, ages 15-18
1961-1969 Free-lance book editor
1962 Married Kenneth Pitchford
1968 Organized first feminist demonstration against Miss America Pageant
1969 Birth of son, Blake
1969-1970 Editor for Grove Press
1970 Author, compiler, and editor of Sisterhood is Powerful: An Anthology of Writings from the Women's Liberation Movement
1970 Founder and president of The Sisterhood is Powerful Foundation
1972 Monster: Poems published
1973 Visiting chair and guest professor of Women's Studies at New College, Sarasota, Fla.
1974-1987 Editor and columnist of Ms. magazine
1978 Going Too Far: The Personal Chronicle of a Feminist published
1979-1980 Received National Endowment for the Arts grant
1982 Depth Perception: New Poems and a Masque published
1982-1984 Received Ford Foundation grant
1984 Founder of Sisterhood is Global Institute
1984 Author, compiler, and editor of Sisterhood is Global: The International Women's Movement Anthology
1987 Distinguished visiting scholar and lecturer at Rutgers University, N. J.
1989 The Demon Lover: On the Sexuality of Terrorism published
1989-1993 Editor in chief of Ms. magazine
1990 Divorced from Kenneth Pitchford
1992 Received Honorary Doctorate from the University of Connecticut
1993 Consulting editor of Ms. magazine
1996-1997 Visiting professor at the University of Denver Graduate School of International Affairs
2000 Saturday's Child: A Memoir published
2003 Author, compiler, and editor of Sisterhood is Forever: The Women's Anthology for a New Millennium
2003 Columnist for Ms. magazine
Robin Morgan is a feminist activist, award-winning poet, novelist, journalist, and essayist. She was a child model, had her own radio show at the age of four, and was a child star on television. Since the late 1960s, when she organized the first demonstration against the Miss America Pageant, Morgan has been active in the feminist movement. In 1984, she founded the Sisterhood is Global Institute, an international, non-governmental, and non-profit organization concerned with women's rights which is currently based in Montreal, Canada.
As a recipient of numerous writing grants, Morgan has published eighteen books, including six poetry collections, two books of fiction, the now-classic anthology Sisterhood is Powerful (named by the American Library Association one of the "The 100 Most Influential Books of the 20th Century"), and an anthology of international feminism, Sisterhood is Global. She has also consistently contributed to Ms. magazine. She currently lives in New York.
Beverly Preston Morriss was a physician of Amherst Co. Va.
Robert P. Mosteller (b. 1948) is the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs and Professor of Law at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He was born in North Carolina and earned graduate degrees from both Yale and Harvard before working for the Washington, D.C. Public Defender Service as Director of Training and Chief of the Trial Division. Mosteller taught at Duke Law School from 1983 to 2008. He is particularly interested the death penalty, and served as co-reported for the Death Penalty Initiative of the Constitution Project and as president of the North Carolina Center for Death Penalty Litigation.
Mosteller was also an attorney for John Wesley Oliver, a former death row inmate whose case file represents the content in this collection.
In May 1979, John Wesley Oliver and co-defendant George Moore, Jr., were convicted of murdering Allen Watts and Dayton Hodge in an armed robbery of a gas station in Robeson County, North Carolina. Oliver was sentenced to death for both murders, while Moore was sentenced to death for the murder of Dayton Hodge. On appeal, the Supreme Court of North Carolina affirmed the defendants' convictions, but vacated the death sentences and remanded the cases for re-sentencing.
In January 1982, Oliver was re-sentenced to death for the murder of Dayton Hodge, and both defendants were sentenced to death for the murder of Allen Watts. The case was appealed, and the death penalty for Watts' murder was overturned, but Oliver's second death sentence for the murder of Dayton Hodge was affirmed.
In April 1994, following a hearing on Oliver's Motion for Appropriate Relief, the court vacated Oliver's death sentence when the Superior Court judge found that the prosecution had withheld from the defense important information that would have cast doubt on eyewitnesses' identification of Oliver as the person responsible for the death of Dayton Hodge. The judge ordered a new sentencing hearing regarding Hodge's murder. In a 2009 article, Mosteller writes that "a combination of processes resulted in the exclusion of all African Americans in a jurisdiction where approximately one-fourth of the population was African American from a jury that in 1982 recommended death sentences for two African American defendants [Oliver and Moore] charged with the murder of two white men... The death sentence was vacated on the basis of a violation of the defendant's due process rights under Brady v. Maryland" (Kotch and Mosteller: "The Racial Justice Act and the Long Struggle with Race and the Death Penalty in North Carolina").
The cases came before the court in November 2001 for re-sentencing, and the State of North Carolina elected not to seek the death penalty. Oliver was sentenced to life imprisonment for both murders, while Moore was sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of Dayton Hodge.
The Munford and Ellis families were connected through the marriage of George Wythe Munford and Elizabeth Throwgood Ellis in 1838. The earliest papers from the Munford family center around William Munford (1775-1825) of the first generation, George Wythe Munford (1803-1882) of the second generation, and the children of George Wythe Munford, notably Thomas Taylor Munford (1831-1918), Sallie Radford (Munford) Talbott (1841-1930), Lucy Munford and Fannie Ellis Munford. Papers of the Ellis family begin with those of Charles Ellis, Sr. (1772-1840), Richmond merchant; his wife, Margaret (Nimmo) Ellis (1790-1877); and his brother, Powhatan Ellis (1790-1863), jurist, U.S. senator, and diplomat. Later materials include letters from Thomas Harding Ellis (1814-1898), son of Charles and Margaret Ellis, as well as some materials from their other children and grandchildren.
Senior Seaman Nagano was a navy volunteer flight trainee at Sasebo Air Base in Japan during World War II. He was training to be a pilot on an aircraft carrier. Nagano had an older brother serving in Manchuria and another brother who owned a business in China.
The National Coalition for Haitian Rights (NCHR) was founded to advocate on behalf of Haitian citizens, immigrants, and refugees, both in the United States and regionally.
In December 1981, major civil rights organizations joined with Haitian community groups and advocates to March on Washington to protest President Reagan's new policy of interdiction at sea of Haitian refugees and indefinite detention of Haitian asylum-seekers. The march was organized under the banner of an umbrella organization called the Committee for the Defense of Haitian Refugees (CODEHR). A few months later in February 1982, these organizations decide to transform CODEHR into the National Emergency Coalition for Haitian Refugees, appoint an executive director, form a board and raise operational funds from member organizations. In addition to Haitian advocacy organizations (the Haitian Refugee Center, Haitian Fathers, Haitian Centers Council) it included major civil rights groups (NAACP, National Urban League, Southern Christian Leadership Conference), and major denominations (the US Catholic Conference of Bishops, the Episcopal Church, the National Council of Churches, Church World Service, and Lutheran Refugee Service) and human rights groups (Americas Watch, Lawyers Committee for Human Rights), in all about 44 organizations. Bishop Anthony Bevilacqua and Bayard Rustin as Chairman and Vice-Chairman, respectively, provided leadership. Susan Buchanan was the first Executive Director. Another key leader was Ira Gollobin who founded the National Lawyers Guild, headed the National Committee for the Protection of the Foreign Born, and litigated several key immigration and refugee cases.
Around August/September 1982, the organization eliminated "Emergency" from its title and became the National Coalition for Haitian Refugees. Around this time, Michael S. Hooper (research director for the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights) becomes the new Executive Director. Jocelyn "Juny" McCalla succeeded him in 1988.
By 1994, after President Clinton's historic decision to deploy 20,000 troops to Haiti to restore President Jean-Bertrand Aristide to elected office, NCHR had expanded its scope of work from refugee rights to civil and international human rights, taking advantage of a paradigm shift in US-Haiti relations that put the US more on the side of democracy in Haiti. To reflect this the organization changed its name to the National Coalition for Haitian Rights in 1995.
From 1995 until 2006, when the organization shut down, NCHR focused on two key goals. First, it worked to equip Haiti with its own professional human rights group, by grooming the field office, which it had established in Port-au-Prince in 1992 to become an independent national group with field offices throughout Haiti. Second, NCHR set its sights on strengthening the capacity of Haitians to exercise greater political power and influence over US policy towards Haitian communities and Haiti. In 2004, NCHR-Haiti became the National Network for the Defense of Human Rights.
During its twenty-four years of operation, NCHR tackled a wide variety of issues faced by Haitians in Haiti and the US and the Caribbean. These included US immigration policy, treatment of Haitian immigrants (including such categories as "boat people", migrant workers, and refugees), documenting conditions at US detention centers such as Guantanamo and Krome, HIV/AIDS in the Haitian community, human rights abuses and accountability in Haiti under the Duvalier regime and post-Duvalier governments, police corruption and abuse both in Haiti and in New York City, and electoral and judicial reform in Haiti. [Source: NCHR records, Jocelyn "Juny" McCalla]
Special Note On Immigration and Legalization in the NCHR records
Immigration and legalization are a common thread throughout NCHR's existence and in its historical records.
In June 1982 Judge Eugene Spellman ruled against the Reagan Administration's broad Haitian detention order, freeing the 3,500 Haitian held in detention centers throughout the country. Spellman addressed the Administration's concern that, once released, Haitian asylum-seekers would just disappear into the ether by giving NCHR the responsibility to a) report to the court on a regular basis whether the Immigration courts complied with the ruling (hearings could not proceed if the Haitian asylum-seekers did not have legal representation) and b) secure legal assistance nationwide for the Haitian asylum-seekers. NCHR was uniquely situated to do so, because its membership consisted of voluntary agencies (USCC, LIRS, CWS, etc.) that agreed to resettle the released asylum-seekers. Accordingly, NCHR worked with these groups as well as law firms and legal groups (ACLU, National Lawyers Guild, etc.) to coordinate legal representation efforts, train pro bono lawyers in the art of Haitian asylum issues and representation, and communicate with immigration courts around the country on hearings. Spellman's 1982 ruling was crucial to NCHR's evolution and led to NCHR eliminating "emergency" from its name.
The aforementioned programs and activities lasted until 1986. In that year, Congress passed and President Reagan signed the Immigration Reform and Control Act (IRCA). The legislation had four provisions, one of which was called Cuban-Haitian Adjustment (CHA), which was in fact more Haitian than Cuban. This was a far-reaching provision that was adopted primarily thanks to NCHR. CHA granted Haitian asylum-seekers in the USA since before January 1, 1982 permanent residence (green cards) and made the status retroactive to January 1, 1982. In other words, any Haitian who qualified for this provision could obtain a green card in 1987, and immediately fulfill the 5-year residency requirement that made him or her eligible for US citizenship through naturalization. An estimated 40,000 Haitian refugees benefited from the legislation. At this point NCHR switched to training lawyers and advocates on the law's provisions and successful representation.
While these laws and reforms were being enacted in the US, Haitians kept fleeing the despotic regimes that succeeded the Duvaliers. Thus NCHR's investigating and reporting on human rights conditions, educating the US Congress and the Administration in order to influence policymaking and lawmaking continued apace. In 1988, NCHR extended human rights monitoring to the Dominican Republic and the Bahamas, and initiated a monthly bulletin, Haiti Insight. The human rights reporting was key to providing substantive support to Haitian asylum claims. Over time, the bulletin became required reading for US asylum adjudicators. In 1992, the Haitian military took power through a coup d'état and exiled President Aristide. Shortly afterwards, thousands of Haitians took to the high seas and were intercepted by the US Coast Guard and warehoused in the US naval military base at Guantanamo, Cuba (GTMO). Once again, NCHR was at the forefront of advocating for Haitian asylum-seekers. The official records of the litigation undertaken on behalf of the Haitian refugees will not direct the public's attention to NCHR's key role in this effort, but it was substantial. For strategic and practical reasons, the groups involved in the litigation chose a member organization -- the Haitian Centers Council – as the lead organization because it was headquartered in Brooklyn where NCHR and the Yale Law School filed suit on behalf of the Haitians held in GTMO. By 1994, NCHR had secured the release of about 11,000 Haitian refugees and the right for them to seek asylum on U.S. soil. About 3 years later, NCHR secured legislation granting them and thousands of others (an estimated 50,000) legal permanent residence (green cards). NCHR challenged the U.S. Interdiction-at-sea policy all the way to the Supreme Court, which unfortunately decided that the President had quasi-absolute powers outside of U.S. borders.
It is important to note that for purposes of immigration enforcement, the U.S. border steadily receded from 12 miles to 3 miles (under Reagan), from 3 miles to sure footing on land (under Clinton), whereas a slot machine or a detainee in GTMO is not in US territory unless in the 12-mile limit. Note also that Customs and Border Patrol has a 100-mile wide authority to patrol on each side of the border, i.e. for purposes of immigration enforcement. All of New York City (its 8 million + residents) is within the border.
In short, NCHR's legalization and immigration efforts, activities, and programs may have shifted focus and administrative and programmatic location over the years, but they always were part of NCHR's DNA. [source: Jocelyn "Juny" McCalla]
Special Note On Immigration and Legalization in the NCHR records
Immigration and legalization are a common thread throughout NCHR's existence and in its historical records.
In June 1982 Judge Eugene Spellman ruled against the Reagan Administration's broad Haitian detention order, freeing the 3,500 Haitian held in detention centers throughout the country. Spellman addressed the Administration's concern that, once released, Haitian asylum-seekers would just disappear into the ether by giving NCHR the responsibility to a) report to the court on a regular basis whether the Immigration courts complied with the ruling (hearings could not proceed if the Haitian asylum-seekers did not have legal representation) and b) secure legal assistance nationwide for the Haitian asylum-seekers. NCHR was uniquely situated to do so, because its membership consisted of voluntary agencies (USCC, LIRS, CWS, etc.) that agreed to resettle the released asylum-seekers. Accordingly, NCHR worked with these groups as well as law firms and legal groups (ACLU, National Lawyers Guild, etc.) to coordinate legal representation efforts, train pro bono lawyers in the art of Haitian asylum issues and representation, and communicate with immigration courts around the country on hearings. Spellman's 1982 ruling was crucial to NCHR's evolution and led to NCHR eliminating "emergency" from its name.
The aforementioned programs and activities lasted until 1986. In that that year, Congress passed and President Reagan signed the Immigration Reform and Control Act (IRCA). The legislation had four provisions, one of which was called Cuban-Haitian Adjustment (CHA), which was in fact more Haitian than Cuban. This was a far-reaching provision that was adopted primarily thanks to NCHR. CHA granted Haitian asylum-seekers in the USA since before January 1, 1982 permanent residence (green cards) and made the status retroactive to January 1, 1982. In other words, any Haitian who qualified for this provision could obtain a green card in 1987, and immediately fulfill the 5-year residency requirement that made him or her eligible for US citizenship through naturalization. An estimated 40,000 Haitian refugees benefited from the legislation. At this point NCHR switched to training lawyers and advocates on the law's provisions and successful representation.
While these laws and reforms were being enacted in the US, Haitians kept fleeing the despotic regimes that succeeded the Duvaliers. Thus NCHR's investigating and reporting on human rights conditions, educating the US Congress and the Administration in order to influence policymaking and lawmaking continued apace. In 1988, NCHR extended human rights monitoring to the Dominican Republic and the Bahamas, and initiated a monthly bulletin, Haiti Insight. The human rights reporting was key to providing substantive support to Haitian asylum claims. Over time, the bulletin became required reading for US asylum adjudicators. In 1992, the Haitian military took power through a coup d'état and exiled President Aristide. Shortly afterwards, thousands of Haitians took to the high seas and were intercepted by the US Coast Guard and warehoused in the US naval military base at Guantanamo, Cuba (GTMO). Once again, NCHR was at the forefront of advocating for Haitian asylum-seekers. The official records of the litigation undertaken on behalf of the Haitian refugees will not direct the public's attention to NCHR's key role in this effort, but it was substantial. For strategic and practical reasons, the groups involved in the litigation chose a member organization -- the Haitian Centers Council – as the lead organization because it was headquartered in Brooklyn where NCHR and the Yale Law School filed suit on behalf of the Haitians held in GTMO. By 1994, NCHR had secured the release of about 11,000 Haitian refugees and the right for them to seek asylum on U.S. soil. About 3 years later, NCHR secured legislation granting them and thousands of others (an estimated 50,000) legal permanent residence (green cards). NCHR challenged the U.S. Interdiction-at-sea policy all the way to the Supreme Court, which unfortunately decided that the President had quasi-absolute powers outside of U.S. borders.
It is important to note that for purposes of immigration enforcement, the U.S. border steadily receded from 12 miles to 3 miles (under Reagan), from 3 miles to sure footing on land (under Clinton), whereas a slot machine or a detainee in GTMO is not in US territory unless in the 12-mile limit. Note also that Customs and Border Patrol has a 100-mile wide authority to patrol on each side of the border, i.e. for purposes of immigration enforcement. All of New York City (its 8 million + residents) is within the border.
In short, NCHR's legalization and immigration efforts, activities, and programs may have shifted focus and administrative and programmatic location over the years, but they always were part of NCHR's DNA. [source: Jocelyn "Juny" McCalla]
Special Note On Immigration and Legalization in the NCHR records
Immigration and legalization are a common thread throughout NCHR's existence and in its historical records.
In June 1982 Judge Eugene Spellman ruled against the Reagan Administration's broad Haitian detention order, freeing the 3,500 Haitian held in detention centers throughout the country. Spellman addressed the Administration's concern that, once released, Haitian asylum-seekers would just disappear into the ether by giving NCHR the responsibility to a) report to the court on a regular basis whether the Immigration courts complied with the ruling (hearings could not proceed if the Haitian asylum-seekers did not have legal representation) and b) secure legal assistance nationwide for the Haitian asylum-seekers. NCHR was uniquely situated to do so, because its membership consisted of voluntary agencies (USCC, LIRS, CWS, etc.) that agreed to resettle the released asylum-seekers. Accordingly, NCHR worked with these groups as well as law firms and legal groups (ACLU, National Lawyers Guild, etc.) to coordinate legal representation efforts, train pro bono lawyers in the art of Haitian asylum issues and representation, and communicate with immigration courts around the country on hearings. Spellman's 1982 ruling was crucial to NCHR's evolution and led to NCHR eliminating "emergency" from its name.
The aforementioned programs and activities lasted until 1986. In that that year, Congress passed and President Reagan signed the Immigration Reform and Control Act (IRCA). The legislation had four provisions, one of which was called Cuban-Haitian Adjustment (CHA), which was in fact more Haitian than Cuban. This was a far-reaching provision that was adopted primarily thanks to NCHR. CHA granted Haitian asylum-seekers in the USA since before January 1, 1982 permanent residence (green cards) and made the status retroactive to January 1, 1982. In other words, any Haitian who qualified for this provision could obtain a green card in 1987, and immediately fulfill the 5-year residency requirement that made him or her eligible for US citizenship through naturalization. An estimated 40,000 Haitian refugees benefited from the legislation. At this point NCHR switched to training lawyers and advocates on the law's provisions and successful representation.
While these laws and reforms were being enacted in the US, Haitians kept fleeing the despotic regimes that succeeded the Duvaliers. Thus NCHR's investigating and reporting on human rights conditions, educating the US Congress and the Administration in order to influence policymaking and lawmaking continued apace. In 1988, NCHR extended human rights monitoring to the Dominican Republic and the Bahamas, and initiated a monthly bulletin, Haiti Insight. The human rights reporting was key to providing substantive support to Haitian asylum claims. Over time, the bulletin became required reading for US asylum adjudicators. In 1992, the Haitian military took power through a coup d'état and exiled President Aristide. Shortly afterwards, thousands of Haitians took to the high seas and were intercepted by the US Coast Guard and warehoused in the US naval military base at Guantanamo, Cuba (GTMO). Once again, NCHR was at the forefront of advocating for Haitian asylum-seekers. The official records of the litigation undertaken on behalf of the Haitian refugees will not direct the public's attention to NCHR's key role in this effort, but it was substantial. For strategic and practical reasons, the groups involved in the litigation chose a member organization -- the Haitian Centers Council – as the lead organization because it was headquartered in Brooklyn where NCHR and the Yale Law School filed suit on behalf of the Haitians held in GTMO. By 1994, NCHR had secured the release of about 11,000 Haitian refugees and the right for them to seek asylum on U.S. soil. About 3 years later, NCHR secured legislation granting them and thousands of others (an estimated 50,000) legal permanent residence (green cards). NCHR challenged the U.S. Interdiction-at-sea policy all the way to the Supreme Court, which unfortunately decided that the President had quasi-absolute powers outside of U.S. borders.
It is important to note that for purposes of immigration enforcement, the U.S. border steadily receded from 12 miles to 3 miles (under Reagan), from 3 miles to sure footing on land (under Clinton), whereas a slot machine or a detainee in GTMO is not in US territory unless in the 12-mile limit. Note also that Customs and Border Patrol has a 100-mile wide authority to patrol on each side of the border, i.e. for purposes of immigration enforcement. All of New York City (its 8 million + residents) is within the border.
In short, NCHR's legalization and immigration efforts, activities, and programs may have shifted focus and administrative and programmatic location over the years, but they always were part of NCHR's DNA. [source: Jocelyn "Juny" McCalla]
The Center for Documentary Studies, an interdisciplinary educational organization affiliated with Duke University, is dedicated to advancing documentary work that combines experience and creativity with education and community life. Founded in 1989, CDS connects the arts and humanities to fieldwork, drawing upon photography, filmmaking, oral history, folklore and writing as catalysts for education and change.
The North Carolina Self-Portrait project (NCSP) was directed by Alex Harris at the Center For Documentary Studies, Duke University. The NCSP project was modeled after a similar project conducted by the Center for the Study of Southern Culture at the University of Mississippi. The objective of these projects was to photograph the family pictures of African Americans, and to record on audio tape the family member's descriptions of the photographs.
Nathan Carter Newbold was the Director of the Division of Negro Education for the North Carolina State Department of Public Instruction from 1913-1950. Born in 1871 in Pasquotank County, N.C., Newbold lived and worked in North Carolina most of his life. He attended Trinity College (now Duke University) in 1895 and went on to work in education at schools across North Carolina first as a teacher, principal, and superintendent, and then as the Director of the Division of Negro Education in Raleigh during segregation and Jim Crow. He was a founding member of the North Carolina Commission for Interracial Cooperation and served as director of the Division of Cooperation in Education and Race Relations.
Nathan Carter Newbold married Mabel Wooten in 1900. Wooten was born in La Grange, North Carolina in 1875 and died in 1903. She attended the State Normal and Industrial School in North Carolina (which later became the University of North Carolina at Greensboro) and graduated in 1895.
In 1905 Nathan Carter Newbold married Eugenia Bradsher, who was born in 1875 in Person County. Eugenia Bradsher was a classmate of Mabel Wooten at the State Normal and Industrial School in North Carolina (UNCG) and also graduated in 1895. She died in 1960.
William Newbold was Nathan Carter Newbold's grandfather. He was the Sheriff in Pasquotank in the 1850s and died in 1864.
General hospital founded in 1771 in New York, N.Y. The New York Ladies' Southern Relief Association was founded by Mrs. Algernon Sydney Sullivan in New York City in December, 1866. Its purpose was to aid the starving and destitute women and children of the South, who had experienced crop failures following the Civil War. The organization collected funds, food, and clothing, and distributed them via southern clergy.
Frederick B. Nightingale (F.B.) was born in 1885 and died in the 1950s. He worked in sales for General Electric until the 1940s, when he founded his own lighting company, Kim Lighting, and became a local celebrity in 1928 when he erected the giant "Star of Palawoo" above his Pasadena property in the Altadena hills in California.
The Outdoor Advertising Association of America (OAAA) compiled and held the materials that became this collection of poster designs (formerly known as the Outdoor Advertising Sketch Library), but the card file and volumes in this collection most likely originated within the outdoor advertising companies represented, such as General Outdoor Advertising Co. and Foster and Kleiser. OAAA is the primary professional and trade association representing the outdoor advertising industry and was founded to promote outdoor advertising interests in the United States. OAAA members own and operate billboards, street furniture, transit, or other outdoor advertising displays. Members also include service providers to the industry, users of the outdoor medium, and others supporting its goals.
Significant Dates in Outdoor Advertising History
1891 OAAA was founded as the Associated Bill Posters' Association of the US and Canada (ABPA)
1901 Outdoor advertising company Foster and Kleiser opened for business in Portland and Seattle; the company later was known as Patrick Media, then Eller, then Clear Channel
1906 ABPA changed its name to Associated Bill Posters and Distributors of the United States and Canada
1912 Association changed its name to the Poster Advertising Association, Inc. (PAA)
1920 The Art Directors Club was organized, establishing standards for commercial arts through competitions and the identification of categories of commercial art
1925 PAA and the Painted Outdoor Advertising Association merged to become OAAA
The Fulton Group and the Cusack Co. combined to become the General Outdoor Advertising Company
1930 First National Contest and Exhibit of Outdoor Advertising Art was held under the auspices of the Outdoor Advertising Department of the Advertising Council of the Chicago Association of Commerce
1962 The first modern multivision painted bulletin displayed in Sacramento, Calif.; triangular sections permitted display of three different designs on a single unit
1990s Painted boards were replaced by computer-generated formats
Digital technology affected creation of advertising designs and display
1907 May 22 Born, Caro, Mich.
1928 Graduated from the Art Institute of Chicago; worked for several years for various newspapers and advertising agencies
circa 1933 Joined Outdoor Advertising, Inc. (OAI) 
circa 1938 Became an Associate Art Director, OAI
1957 Married Janet Brewster, then-Executive Secretary of the National Society of Art Directors
1958 Became President, Art Directors Club of New York, and Art Director, OAI
1959 Became Chairman, Art Division, Sister Elizabeth Kenney Foundation Fund, a public service campaign to fight polio
1965 Won a gold medal for water colors at the 25th Annual Members Exhibition of the Art Directors Club of New York, for his painting entitled Composition No. 1
circa 1968 Retired as Art Director of OAI, to become a consultant art director
1988 July 4 Died, Montville, N.J.
Garrett Orr was a graphic artist and billboard designer. A director with Outdoor Advertising, Inc. (OAI) for over 30 years (1938-1968), Orr oversaw national outdoor advertising campaigns during a period where technological advances and a developing interstate highway system stimulated rapid growth in the U.S. outdoor advertising industry. Stan H. Henderson, President of the Georgia Outdoor Advertising Company, Inc. once said of Garrett Orr, Garry probably produced more outdoor advertising art than any other man in history.
Mary Gorham Paine was born on March 2, 1843, in Yarmouth, Massachusetts, to Captain Thacher Gorham (1806-1874) and Dinah Hall Bray (1807-1856). She married Captain Eben W. Paine (1835-1904) of Brewster, Massachusetts, and had one son, Allen Thatcher Paine, born on April 29, 1882. Her husband, who commanded merchant ships in the trade between Boston and Zanzibar, resided in Zanzibar as agent for the Ropes & Co. shipping firm for several years, presumably during the time this diary was written. After retirement, he farmed cranberries and later served as Brewster's town clerk, treasurer, and director of the Barnstable County Mutual Fire Insurance Company.
1942 Aug. 2 Born Nell Elizabeth Irvin, in Houston, Texas, to Frank and Dona L. Irvin
1962-1963 Studied French medieval history at University of Bordeaux, France
1964 B.A. (honors) in anthropology, University of California, Berkeley
1965-1966 Studied at University of Ghana, Institute of African Studies; met Colin Painter, a linguistics teacher at the university, to whom she was married from 1965 to 1966
1967 M.A. in African history, University of California, Los Angeles
1969 Entered Harvard doctoral program in history; met Nellie Y. McKay, a first-year graduate student in English, and began lifelong friendship
1974 Ph.D. in American history, Harvard University
1974-1977 Assistant Professor of History, University of Pennsylvania
1976 Published Exodusters: Black Migration to Kansas After Reconstruction
1977-1980 Associate Professor of History, University of Pennsylvania
1979 Published The Narrative of Hosea Hudson: His Life as a Negro Communist in the South
1980-1988 Professor of History, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
1982-1983 Guggenheim Fellow
1985-1986 Russell Sage Visiting Professor of History, Hunter College of the City University of New York
1987 Published Standing at Armageddon: The United States, 1877-1919
1988-1989 Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences Fellow
1988-1991 Professor of History, Princeton University
1989 Oct. 14 Married Glenn R. Shafer, a professor in the business school of the University of Kansas
1990-1991 Acting Director, Program in Afro-American Studies, Princeton University
1991- Edwards Professor of American History, Princeton University
1992-1993 National Endowment for the Humanities Fellowship
1996 Published Sojourner Truth, A Life, A Symbol
1997-2000 Director, Program in African American Studies, Princeton University
2002 Published Southern History Across the Color Line
2004 Apr. Retirement conference in her honor, Princeton University: "Constructing the Past, Creating the Future: The Legacy of Nell Irvin Painter"
2005 Published Creating Black Americans: African American History and Its Meanings, 1619 to the Present
2005 Received Emeritus Status at Princeton University
2007 Fellow, American Academy of Arts and Sciences
2010 Published The History of White People
In addition to items listed in the chronology, Painter has been an active member of a wide variety of professional organizations, including: the American Antiquarian Society, the American Historical Association, the American Studies Association, Association of Black Women Historians, Berkshire Conference of Women Historians, the Institute for Southern Studies, the National Book Foundation, Organization of American Historians, and the Southern Historical Association. She has also served on the editorial boards of several publishers and journals, including the University of North Carolina Press, the Encyclopedia of American Cultural and Intellectual History, and SIGNS.
Sources for biographical information include: Contemporary Authors Online; Contemporary Black Biography; Notable Black American Women; Who's Who in America, 2005-; and Painter's web site, www.nellpainter.com. Phebe Ann Palmer married Benjamin R. Palmer and the couple had nine children. They were Quakers. At the time these letters were written, the couple resided in Low Moor, Clinton Co., Iowa. They served as links in the local Underground Railroad, delivering escaped slaves to Clinton, Iowa, where they rowed across the Mississippi River. Mr. Palmer was elected to the General Assembly in 1866, where he read the first petition for woman's suffrage.
The Park, Lambuth, and Sherertz families were Methodist missionaries to China, Japan, and Africa. Margaret Paton was the wife of a merchant from Montrose, Scotland.
1900 Jan. 15 Born in Montgomery, Alabama
1918 Oct.-Dec. Student Army Training Corps enlistee at University of California when World War I armistice signed
1924 Graduated from Northwestern University (Evanston, Ill.) with a Bachelor of Science degree
1925 Graduated from Northwestern with a degree in Civil Engineering
1925 Sept.-1927 Apr. Research Engineer at Sunland Sales Corporation
1927 Apr.-1933 Jan. Chief Engineer-Secretary at the Outdoor Advertising Association of America (OAAA)
1933 Jan.-1936 Jan. Erskine Fellow and Research Associate for Miller McClintock at Erskine Bureau for Street Traffic Research at Harvard University
1936 Jan.-1937 Apr. Research Associate for McClintock at Advertising Research Foundation
1937 Apr.-1942 June Engineer and Manager of National Field Service Department at National Outdoor Advertising Bureau (NOAB)
1942 June-1944 June Major-Lieutenant Colonel in US Air Force during World War II
1944 Jul.-1945 Jan. 1 Managing Director of Traffic Audit Bureau (TAB)
1945 Jan. 1 -1962 President and General Manager of NOAB
1950 Featured speaker at the national convention of the British Poster Advertising Association
1958 Speaker again for the British Poster Advertising Association
1962 Retired from NOAB
1963 Guest of honor and speaker at the European Association of Outdoor Advertising in Paris
1972 Died
After retirement, Paver still promoted the establishment of an international organization to make use of poster advertising throughout the world and traveled extensively for this purpose. He worked closely with the British and London Poster Associations and the Outdoor Advertising Federation of Europe. Paver also published "My World War II Experiences" at some point before 1968. Only a few copies were created by printer, Harry Deckoff, of the Tribune Printing Company in New York
Parker Pillsbury (September 22, 1809 – July 7, 1898) was an American minister, lecturer, newspaper editor, and advocate for abolition and women's rights. He was born in Hamilton, Massachusetts, the son of Oliver Pillsbury, a blacksmith and farmer, and Anna (Smith) Pillsbury. He was a descendant of William Pillsbury who came to Massachusetts circa 1640. Parker’s parents moved to Henniker, New Hampshire in 1814. He was educated in the district school and worked on farms in New Hampshire and as a wagoner in Massachusetts. From 1835 to 1838, he studied at the Gilmanton Theological Seminary, and then for a year at the more conservative Andover Theological Seminary. By the time Pillsbury left Andover he was a devout Abolitionist. He briefly held a parish position at the Congregational Church at Loudon, New Hampshire, however his Congregational license to preach was revoked in 1840 because of his use of the pulpit to denounce slavery. Though he held no regular pastorate, he continued to preach for free religious societies in Toledo, Ohio, Battle Creek, Michigan, Rochester, New York and elsewhere. On January 1, 1840, he married fellow abolitionist Sarah H. Sargent of Concord, New Hampshire.
Pillsbury was an abolitionist of the Garrisonian type, and from 1840 until the emancipation of the slaves was lecture agent for the New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and American anti-slavery societies. An admirer of John Brown, he spoke at a demonstration meeting in Rochester, New York following Brown’s execution. In 1840 and again in 1845-46 he edited the Herald of Freedom, at Concord, New Hampshire, and from January to May 1866 the National Anti-Slavery Standard, in New York City. After the Civil War he was active in efforts to procure the right of suffrage for African Americans believing that the right to vote was necessary for their protection. He was also interested in temperance, political reform, international peace, and women’s rights.
Pillsbury was one of the earliest and most devoted advocates women's rights in the nineteenth century. He severed his connection with the Standard when its managers showed themselves more favorable toward extending the right to vote to African Americans than to women. He was a long time vice-president of the New Hampshire Woman Suffrage Association and helped draft the constitution of the American Equal Rights Association. From 1868 to 1870, he was joint editor with Elizabeth Cady Stanton of the Revolution, a radical weekly. In addition to contributions to these newspapers, he wrote the Acts of the Anti-Slavery Apostles (1883), a history of the abolition movement in New England.
Lauren Pond is a documentary photographer based in Ohio.
Pope and Carter families of Giles, Maury, and Williamson Counties, Tennessee.
John W. E. Pope was born approximately 1881. He and his wife, Sarah Dennis Pope, lived in Durham, N.C. Pope was deaf and although he worked as a laborer, he and his wife received welfare and unemployment benefits at times during the early 20th century. He was also an active member of the National Fraternal Society of the Deaf, and served as the Durham chapter president in the 1920s.
James Hinton Pou, Sr. (1861-1935), a lawyer, politician, and land developer based in Raleigh, North Carolina, was born in Tuskegee, Alabama, to Edward William and Anna Maria Smith Pou of Johnston County, N.C. The family moved to Johnston County after the Civil War. Pou began practicing the legal profession in Raleigh, and soon joined the practice of his relative by marriage Josiah Bailey, and later with his son, James H. Pou, Jr.
In the period of Reconstruction politics Pou emerged as an active, articulate Democrat and served three terms in the General Assembly: in 1885 as a representative and in 1888 and 1892 as a senator. Although he was urged to pursue a career in politics, he chose to devote his time to his law practice.
In 1889, Pou was married to Annie Walker. They had two children, James H. Pou, Jr., and Edith Walker Pou, who married Josiah Bailey, whose papers are also available in the Rubenstein Library.
James H. Pou died in Raleigh, N.C. in 1935 and is buried in Oakwood Cemetery.
[From DICTIONARY OF NORTH CAROLINA BIOGRAPHY: VOLUME 5, P-S edited by William S. Powell. Copyright Â© 1994 by the University of North Carolina Press. Used by permission of the publisher. www.uncpress.org]
Advertising agency founded in 1926 in Paris, France by Marcel Bleustein-Blanchet. Acquisitions, mergers and alliances: Intermarco 1970s; Foote Cone Belding 1988 (ended 1995); Hal Riney 1998; Burrell Communications 1999; Saatchi & Saatchi 2001; Bcom3 (Leo Burnett, DMB&B) 2002; Dentsu 2003.
Mordecai Purcell, a Quaker farmer, fruit-grower, and broom-maker, first lived in Loudoun County, Virginia, then moved to Frederick County near Winchester in 1834. He never married. He appears in Confederate Army rolls as a private, 2nd regiment, Virginia Infantry, but he may have been a supporter of the Union. He is quoted in the Southern Claims Commission records as being harshly treated by Confederates in 1864, but his claim was not approved. According to a history of the county, John Purcell, Mordecai's brother, was in California for the gold rush but it is not known if the materials refer to that period.
Tom Rankin served as the Director of the Center for Documentary Studies at Duke University for three consecutive five-year terms until 2013, and is a Professor of the Practice in the Arts and Director of the Master of Fine Arts program at Duke University. A documentary photographer, filmmaker, writer, editor, and folklorist, he has been documenting and interpreting American culture, particularly in the South, for nearly twenty years. His photographic work has been published and widely exhibited. His most long-standing work has been to reveal through the documentary arts the culture and society of the Mississippi Delta region, where he also served as a faculty member of Delta State University and the University of Mississippi. He has returned many times since the 1980s to photograph the landscapes and people of the Mississippi Delta, most recently in 2011 after the great floods of that year.
His books include Sacred Space: Photographs from the Mississippi Delta (1993), which received the Mississippi Institute of Arts and Letters Award for Photography, 'Deaf Maggie Lee Sayre': Photographs of a River Life(1995), Faulkner's World: The Photographs of Martin J. Dain (1997), and Local Heroes Changing America: Indivisible (2000).
He received an MFA from Georgia State University and an MA from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. American Photo Magazine named Tom Rankin as one of the 100 Most Important People in Photography, May, 2005.
Rockett, Burkhead & Winslow (RBW) was an integrated marketing communications agency that was based in Raleigh, North Carolina, and had clients including BB&T, CORT, Glaxo, Volvo, Dollar Tree, and Reed's. It opened in 1985 and by 1997 had over 120 employees, but declined in size and operations over the next decade. RBW suffered serious financial losses due to clients' trimmed advertising budgets, finally closing permanently in February 2009.
1873 R. (Robert) C. (Chester) Maxwell born
1870s? David L. Clark, an artist who worked in the southeastern US and lived in High Point, N.C., adopted R.C. Maxwell.
1880s? Ran away from the home of David L. Clark; eventually became a sign painter.
1894 Founded an outdoor advertising firm, the R.C. Maxwell Company of Trenton, N.J., at age 21.
1917-1918 During World War I, he served as chief of the Outdoor Advertising Section of the Public Information Division, U.S. Food Administration
1919 The company began creating electric advertising signs.
1923 R.C. Maxwell Company merged with the Trenton Poster Advertising Company and moved to the building at 725 E. State Street in Trenton, N.J.
1920s R.C. Maxwell Company established the Electric Sign Manufacturing Plant in Atlantic City, N.J. to create electric spectacular signs.
1954 R.C. Maxwell died.
2000 R.C. Maxwell Company sold to Interstate Outdoor.
R.C. Maxwell Company of Trenton, N.J., was one of the earliest enduring outdoor advertising companies. Founded in 1894 by Robert Chester Maxwell (1873-1954), the business followed burgeoning industry trends, beginning with a variety of outdoor advertising signage along New Jersey and New York roadways as well as at tourist destinations like Atlantic City, N.J., and New York's Times Square. With the commercial development of the incandescent bulb after World War I, the company began creating electric advertising signs in 1919. Maxwell saw great potential in these spectacular signs and established the Electric Sign Manufacturing Plant in Atlantic City, N.J. in the 1920s. This subsidiary created such giant ads as a 50-foot Colgate thermometer that was placed atop a building on the Atlantic City Boardwalk in 1922. The billboards and spectaculars themselves served as a form of advertising for the company, which displayed slogans such as Maxwell Did It and Maxwell Hits alongside its client's signs. R.C. Maxwell owned numerous billboards in Atlantic City, N.J., and a large number of pictures in this collection are located on the Atlantic City boardwalk.
Haim Reingold (1910-2003) was born in Poland, raised in Tel Aviv, and came to the United States in 1930, where he taught mathematics for almost 70 years. He received his bachelor's, master's, and doctorate in mathematics from the University of Cincinnati, and joined the faculty at the Illinois Institute of Technology in 1945.
Ron (Ronald E.) Reis began taking photographs as a child with an Argus A2. He shot sports photography in junior high school with an Argus C-3 and an Ansco Reflex. He continued photographing sports, acquiring cameras, and developing his darkroom skills throughout high school. When he moved to Philadelphia in 1953 to attend the University of Pennsylvania, Reis turned his 35mm Leica from the sports fields to the streets.
Influenced by the work of Helen Levitt, Louis Stettner, and Cartier-Bresson, Reis became a passionate street photographer, honing his ability to compose and capture photographs on the fly. This decisive quality is reflected in his contacts sheets filled with single exposures. Reis primarily photographed in New York, Connecticut and Europe during the 1960s. The collection captures the look and feel of the 1960s, especially in the cities of New York City and London.
Reis's photographic work has been exhibited at the Worcester Art Museum, Dartmouth College, the A.T. Gallery in New Haven Connecticut, the New Britain Museum of American Art, the E. Leitz Gallery in New York, and the Image Gallery in New York. In addition, several of his prints were exhibited, as the only amateur photographer, in a Christmas show at the Witkin Gallery in New York City as well as in a one-man show at Parents Magazine Gallery in New York City. His work has been published in Camera 35, Leica Magazine, Popular Photography, and U.S. Camera. Permanent collections of his images reside at Duke University's Rubenstein Library, in the Worcester Art Museum (Worcester, Massachusetts), the Museum of American Art in New Britain, Connecticut, and the British Institute of Contemporary Arts in London.
Ronald Reis died in New York City in April 2014.
Louisa E. Rhine
1891, Nov. 9 Born, Louisa Ella Weckesser, on an island in the Niagara River, New York State.
1919 Bachelor of Science in botany, University of Chicago.
1920 Married Joseph Banks Rhine.
1921 Master of Science in botany, University of Chicago.
1923 Earned Ph.D. in botany, University of Chicago.
1923-24 Research fellow in plant physiology at the Boyce Thompson Institute for Plant Research in Yonkers, N.Y.
1924-26 Taught Latin at West Virginia University, Morgantown.
1927 Moved to Durham, N.C.
1930-48 Involved in raising her family and civic affairs.
1948 Began active research at the Duke University Parapsychology Laboratory.
1948-83 Research resulted in the publication of 18 scientific reports in the Journal of Parapsychology and 6 books.
1961 Published Hidden Channels of the Mind.
1980 President of the British Society for Psychical Research.
1983, Mar. 17 Died, Durham, N.C.
1983 Something Hidden, detailing the history of J.B. Rhine's research, published posthumously.
Joseph Banks Rhine
1895, Sept. 29 Born, Waterloo, Juniata County, Pennsylvania.
ca. 1915-1917 Attended Ohio Northern University and the College of Wooster as a preministerial student.
1919 Discharged from the U.S. Marine Corps.
1920 Married Louisa Ella Weckesser.
1922 Bachelor of Science in botany, University of Chicago.
1923 Master of Science in botany, University of Chicago.
1923-24 Research fellow in plant physiology at the Boyce Thompson Institute for Plant Research, Yonkers, New York.
1924-26 Taught plant physiology, West Virginia University in Morgantown.
1925 Ph.D. in botany, University of Chicago.
1926-27 Worked with Dr. Franklin Prince at the Boston Society for Psychical Research.
1927 Came to Duke University to work with Dr. William McDougall, who had just been named head of the Psychology Dept.
1928 Offered an instructorship in philosophy and psychology at Duke with understanding he could do psychical research as well.
1930 Under sponsorship of McDougall, founded Parapsychology Laboratory which at first was part of Duke Psychology Department.
1934 Published Extra-Sensory Perception.
ca. 1935 Laboratory was set apart from the Dept. of Psychology, given some financial support and became known as the Parapsychology Laboratory of Duke University.
1937 Launched the Journal of Parapsychology.
1962 Foundation for Research on the Nature of Man was established under Rhine's guidance.
1965 Retired from Duke and the Duke Parapsychology Laboratory was transferred into the Institute of Parapsychology under the sponsorship of the Foundation for Research on the Nature of Man.
1980, Feb. 20 Died, Hillsborough, N.C.
Composer-in-Residence and Andrew W. Mellon Professor of the Humanities at Carleton College where he joined the faculty in 1974. Rhodes' principal teachers have been William Klenz, Iain Hamilton, Donald Martino, and Mel Powell. Born in Forest City, North Carolina in 1940, he received degrees from Duke University and the Yale University School of Music. Rhodes has been the recipient of numerous commissions and composition awards, including grants from the National Endowment for the Arts, the National Endowment for the Humanities, the Rockefeller Fund for Music, a citation and award from the American Academy of Arts and Letters, a Guggenheim Fellowship, two Tanglewood Orchestra Prizes, two McKnight Foundation Fellowships, two Fromm Foundation Commissions (Harvard), and a Bush Foundation Fellowship for Artists. Rhodes' compositions are published by C. F. Peters, E.M.I., Theodore Presser, J Ballerbach, and Schott, and recorded on labels including CRI, Centaur Records, First Edition (Louisville), Innova, New World Records, and Vienna Modern Masters.
John Frederick Ridlon, born in Vermont in 1852, was a physician, surgeon, and professor specializing in orthopedic medicine, practicing in Chicago, Illinois. He served as president of the American Orthopedic Association (1895) and was its secretary for many years. At 65 years of age he served in the U.S. Medical Corps during World War I, advancing to major. He died in Illinois in 1936.
Alfred Landon Rives was an Army engineer, Confederate officer, and architect, of Albemarle County, Virginia.
Cecil F. and Marie Roberson were Southern Baptist missionaries in Nigeria between the 1950s and 1970s.
Roberts was active while a student at Duke University and in many Triangle (Raleigh-Durham-Chapel Hill) theater groups: East Durham Community Players, Durham Theater Guild, Duke University Singing and Dancing Choruses, Duke Players, Hoof 'n' Horn, Carolina Playmakers (the precursor to the PlayMakers Repertory Company), Carriage House Theater, Allied Arts Follies, Durham Star Professional Playhouse, and the New Triangle Players (the original name for the Triangle Repertory Theater).
Roberts first organized the Durham Star Playhouse in the late 1950s. He founded the Triangle Summer Theater in 1963 which became a professional theater the next year and then blossomed in to the Triangle Repertory Theater.
Many of the clippings and one of the scrapbooks concern the Triangle Repertory Theater, where many of Roberts’ plays were produced. Roberts co-directed this theater along with Wesley Van Tassel and attempted to establish it as a permanent professional theater in Durham, N.C. in 1964 and 1965.
Perhaps Roberts’ most famous play is The Dukes, produced in 1964. The play concerns the collaboration between James Buchanan Duke and Dr. William Preston Few which resulted in the creation of Duke University. The script begins with several pages of historical background regarding the time period (early to mid 1920s).
1918, Sept. 9 Born in Charleston, S.C.
1935-1939 Received B.S. from U. S. Naval Academy
1939-1955 Officer on Active Duty in the United States Navy
1942-1944 Received M.S. in Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering from Massachusetts Institute of Technology
1946-1947 Attended Post-Doctorate Level Classified Training Course in Nuclear Reactors, Clinton Laboratories of the Manhattan Engineering District, now Oak Ridge National Laboratory
1946-1947 Worked at Project Officer in the Navy Nuclear Program for the Development of the Nuclear Power submarines, the Nautilus and the Sea Wolf
1947-1955 Assisted Nuclear Reactor Design U.S.S. Nautilus, Department of Navy
1955-1958 Deputy Director of Division of Reactor Development, Atomic Energy Commission
1957 Director of Nuclear Activities at the General Public Utilities Organization (later Service Company and the GPU Nuclear Corporation)
1958-1967 President and CEO of Pennsylvania Electric Company, Subsidiary of General Public Utilities (GPU), Johnstown, Pa.
1959-1969 Board Chairman, CEO, and Director of the Saxton Nuclear Experimental Corporation, a Subsidiary of GPU
1967-1969 Chairman of Pennsylvania Electric Company, Director of Nuclear Power Activities at General Public Utilities Corporation, New York City
1969-1973 President of Consolidated Edison
1973-1974 Vice Chairman of Consolidated Edison
1974-1975 Worked as Consultant to the Adminstrator of the U. S. Federal Energy Administration
1975-1976 President and CEO of John J. McMullen Associates
1976- Private Consulting Engineer
1991, Sept. 15 Died, Charleston, S.C.
Charles Frederick Roos (1901-1958) was a white American research and academic economist. He graduated with a PhD from the Rice Institute in 1926 and taught at Cornell University (1928-1931) and Colorado College (1934-1937). He was director of research at the National Recovery Administration (1933-1934) and Cowles Commission (1934-1937). He left to assume a business research position and founded Applied Economics, Inc. in 1938 (now The Econometrics Institute, Inc.). He was also one of the founders of the Econometric Society and eventually became president in 1948.
1920 Oct. 20 Born in Detroit, Mich.
1938 Enrolled in drawing and painting courses at the Society of Arts and Crafts, Detroit, Mich.
Graduated Cass Technical High School, Detroit, Mich.
1938-1939 Cranbrook Academy of Art, Bloomfield Hills, Mich.
1939-1941 Pratt Institute, New York, N.Y., program in advertising design
1941-1942 Designer, J. Gordan Carr &amp; Associates
1942 Aug.-1945 Oct. Aerial Motion Picture Photographer for the U.S. Army, stationed primarily in England
Co-founded a school of Art and Architecture for servicemen at Chalgrove Air Base in England; taught courses in drawing and design
Developed a proposal for the conversion of U.S. air bases into British housing; presented plan before British government ministers
1946-1947 Art Director, Blaine Thompson Company, New York, N.Y.
1948-1953 Freelance designer, J. Gordon Carr and Associates; projects included American Airlines, Benson &amp; Hedges, Pepsi, Shell Oil, Sky Chef
Package design, Robert Leonard Studio
1952 Founded Ben Rosen Associates
1952-1953 Studio designer, Alan Berni and Associates
1955 Received New York State Teacher's License in Commercial Art/Package Design
Began teaching at the School of Visual Art, New York, N.Y.; developed and taught package design course
1963 Type and Typography published
Designed John F. Kennedy memorial document
Late 1960s Lectured at Cooper Union, New York, N.Y.
1970s Lectured at Pratt Phoenix Center, New York, N.Y.
1970 The Corporate Search for Visual Identity published
1975 Relocated Ben Rosen Associates from New York, N.Y. to Ho-Ho-Kus, N. J.
1977-1978 Formed Ritta, Rosen &amp; Arnoldy, a consulting firm that specialized in graphic design and corporate identity
1980s-early 1990s Member, Arts Advisory Board, Bergen Community College
1991 Digital Type Specimens published
1992 Wrote Introduction to a new edition of Jan Tschichold's Treasury of Alphabets and Lettering
2003 Submitted design proposal to the World Trade Center memorial competition
Men's service organization established in Chicago in 1905.
Henry Ruark was a North Carolina Methodist minister whose sermons appeared in the Greensboro Daily News and were later published in book form. In 1960, he was minister of the First Methodist Church in Laurinburg, North Carolina.
Born 1937, Chicago, Ill.; BA Northwestern University 1958; U.S. Air Force 1958-1959; Air Force Reserve 1959-1965; Young & Rubicam 1960-1963; Post Keyes Gardner 1963; E.H. Weiss agency 1963-1965 (copywriter); BBDO 1965-1966 (Copy Supervisor); 1966-1985 JWT Chicago (Creative Supervisor 1966-1969, Vice President and Creative Director 1969-1980, Board of Directors 1980, resigned 1985); Harvard Advanced Management Program 1982; 1986 Ted Bates Advertising (Chief Creative Officer); 1987-1998 Tatham-Laird and Kudner--later Euro RSCG Tatham (Chief Creative Officer, CEO); 1991 Adweek Advertising Executive of the Year; 1999 JWT Chicago (consultant); 2014 died, Chicago.
Sauer, Farrell, & Co. was a cigar manufacturing company located in Suffield, Connecticut, during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Suffield was the site of the country's first cigar factory, which opened in 1810 after its owners hired a Cuban to teach its workers how to roll tobacco. The town became home to numerous factories that used local crops and sold a variety of cigars throughout the eastern United States. Not much is known about Sauer, Farrell, & Co. in particular, but its involvement in cigar manufacturing and selling appear to reflect the general activities of Suffield cigar factories during this time.
Heppenheimer & Maurer was a lithography company that created box labels for cigar manufacturers to paste on the inside lid of a box of cigars. Sample books like the one in this collection were distributed to local cigar manufacturers, who could then order the labels by their designated number. Frederick Heppenheimer, from New York City, was one of the earliest and most prolific commerical lithographers. He later partnered with Louis Maurer, another well-regarded artist, to create Heppenheimer & Maurer in 1872. Maurer was one of the few cigar label lithographers who regularly signed his work. The company was one of dozens of lithography companies from this period whose art reflected everyday life in the United States.
John Shelley Saurman was a physician based in Philadelphia, Pa, then Salem, Or. He received his doctor of medicine degree in medicine from Temple University in 1909. In Temple's Department of Medicine, Saurman was a Demonstrator of Pathology and Bacteriology, Instructor in Gynecology, and Assistant Professor of Materia Medica. He was also an Instructor of Bacteriology at Temple's Training School for Nurses. In 1912-1913, he became Associate Professor of Bacteriology. Saurman married Lucy Beatrice Roach in 1921, but the two divorced in 1929. Saurman died in 1931.
Grandchild of Fabius and Adelle Fullwood, former slaves of Opilaka, Ala.; manager of Scarborough Nursery School, Inc.; and an active participant in civic, religious, social, and community organizations of Durham, N.C.
Larry Schwarm studied photography and received his MFA and BFA in photography and sculpture from the University of Kansas in Lawrence. Recognizing the fascination that all human beings have with fire, he began photographing the annual midwestern prairie fires in the early 1990s and has continued with this work until 2015. Other recent bodies of work document the F-5 tornado that hit his hometown, Greensburg, Kansas, in 2007; the lives of Kansas farmers, as part of the "Biofuels and Climate Change: Farmers' Land Use Decisions project," funded in part by the National Science Foundation; and life and society in Cuba, 2010. In 2013â€“2014, Schwarm was one of eighty artists featured in the exhibit "A Democracy of Images: Photographs from the Smithsonian American Art Museum." His works are held by many museums and galleries in the United States, including the Smithsonian American Art Museum, San Francisco's Museum of Modern Art, the Philadelphia Museum of Art, and the Library of Congress. He is currently Distinguished Professor of Photography at Wichita State University in Wichita, Kansas.
1910 Born in Budapest, Hungary
1932 JD, University of Budapest
1938 MSc., London School of Economics
1939 Arrived in US as Leon Traveling Fellow
1943-1946 Served in US Army
1945 Bronze Medal, US Army
1946-1958 Recruited to Stanford University by Bernard Haley
1951 Welfare and Competition: The Economics of a Fully Employed Economy
1958-1968 Professor, University of California, Berkeley
1965 Fellow, Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development
1968-1970 Heinz Professor of Economics, Yale University
1969 Money and the Balance of Payments
1970-1976 Eberle Professor of Economics, Stanford University
Industry and Trade in Some Developing Countries: A Comparative Study
1976 The Joyless Economy: an Inquiry into Human Satisfaction and Consumer Dissatisfaction
1999 Published first part of his memoir in Hungarian Quarterly, Vol. 40
2002, June 1 Died in Palo Alto, CA
Yehudit Shadur (1928-2011) grew up in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and studied fine art and art history in Milwaukee, London, and New York. In 1950, she settled in Israel, first on kibbutz Nirim in the Negev and later in Jerusalem. For several years she lived and taught at the Sdeh Boqer College of the Negev. Besides her work based on traditional Jewish folk art, she exhibited landscape drawings and has worked in various print-making techniques, mural compositions, and Jewish decorative arts. Yehudit Shadur pioneered the contemporary revival of the Jewish papercutting tradition.
The Sheek family of North Carolina had many relatives who migrated to Kentucky, Tennessee, Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, and Texas in the mid-nineteenth century.
Reverend Robert Shields, his wife Louise Shields, and members of their family were Methodist missionaries in Angola between the 1890s and the 1960s. Members of the Methodist Episcopal Church, Robert and Louise Shields went to Africa from Ireland and the United States, respectively, in the 1880s and 1890s as part of Bishop William Taylor's self-supporting missions. They worked as missionaries in Angola until 1936, and their children and grandchildren remained in Angola and Zimbabwe. Robert Shields, born in Ireland in 1866, moved to Angola as a missionary in 1887. There he married Lizzie Whiteside of Newry, Ireland in 1891. Lizzie died in 1895, and their son Wesley died at a young age. Shields remarried in 1895, to Louise Raven, who had moved from Chicago to join the mission in Angola. They worked in Quessua, Angola until 1902, when they moved to Luanda, Angola. Robert and Louise had five living children: Robert Dodson (born 1896), Irene Withey (born 1899), Margaret Louise (born 1902), Helen Augusta (born 1903), and Wilhelmina Taylor (born 1905). They also had a daughter, Suzanna, who died at three months from malaria.
May 21, 1866 Robert Shields is born in Ireland.
1887 Robert Shields goes to Angola as a missionary.
1891 Robert Shields marries Lizzie Whiteside, of Newry, Ireland, in Angola.
1895 Lizzie Whiteside dies.
November 10, 1895 Robert Shields marries fellow missionary Louise Raven (from Chicago)
September 24, 1896 Robert Dodson Shields born.
October 5, 1899 Irene Withey Shields born.
1902 Shields family moves to Luanda, Angola
1902 Margaret Louise Shields born.
1902/1903 Louise, Robert Dodson, Irene and Margaret travel to England.
September 3, 1903 Helen Augusta Shields born.
October 1903 Louise returns to Angola.
September 15, 1905 Wilhelmina Taylor Shields born.
1906 Robert and Louise travel to England and Ireland on furlough.
1912 Robert and Louise visit their children in England on furlough.
1919 Robert and Louise visit their children in England and the United States on furlough.
1920 Robert and Louise return to Angola with Irene and Wilhelmina. Margaret and Helen remain in the United States at DePauw University.
1927 Robert and Louise travel to England on furlough.
1929 Wilhelmina Taylor Shields begins work as a teacher in Zimbabwe.
1935 Robert and Louise retire from missionary work, travel to South Africa and England.
April 17, 1936 Robert dies in London after an operation for an abscessed appendix.
December 15, 1936 Louise dies in Bermuda, where she had moved to live with her daughter Margaret.
July 15, 1938 Wilhelmina Taylor Shields marries George Gazeley.
Alix Kates Shulman (given name Alix Audrey Kates) was born in Cleveland, Ohio in 1932 to Dorothy Davis Kates and Samuel Kates. Raised in suburban Cleveland Heights, she graduated from Case Western Reserve University in 1953 with a degree in English and History. She moved to New York City after college and began graduate studies at Columbia University where she met and married fellow graduate student Marcus Klein in 1954. After marriage she began a series of research, editorial and writing jobs. She and Klein were divorced in 1958, and she then married Martin Shulman in 1959. She gave birth to her son Ted in 1961 and to her daughter Polly in 1963.
Shulman became involved in the early women's liberation movement groups in New York City in the late 1960s. She participated in the famed Miss America Pageant Protest in Atlantic City in 1968, was an early member of the groups Redstockings and WITCH in 1969, and joined the New York Radical Women in 1970. At approximately the same time she became active in the women's liberation movement, Shulman began her literary career, publishing articles in both feminist and mainstream periodicals, and publishing a number of children's books and non-fiction books about Emma Goldman. She and Martin Shulman drafted a Marriage Agreement which was published in the feminist journal Up From Under in 1970. The Agreement was re-printed with accompanying articles in Redbook (in 1971) and then in Life (1972). Due to these re-printings, the Agreement received much press and raised much controversy. It was attacked by, among others, Norman Mailer and Russell Baker. Also in 1972, Shulman published her first major (and semi-autobiographical) novel, Memoirs of an Ex-Prom Queen.Memoirs became a national best seller, raised much debate about the growing feminist movement and the situation of women in U.S. society, and launched Shulman's writing career on a national level.
Throughout the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s, Shulman continued to work as a feminist activist, to write essays and short stories for a wide variety of journals and newspapers, to teach and present speeches and conference papers, and to publish novels and memoirs. She divorced Martin Shulman in 1985 and married former Cleveland Heights High School classmate Scott York in 1989. Her two most recently published books are Drinking the Rain (1995), an account of her solitary, non-technological life on a Maine island, and A Good Enough Daughter (1999), a memoir focusing on her relationships with her late parents. She received an honorary doctorate of Humane Letters from Case Western Reserve University in 2001.
William Sigler was a resident of Mount Jackson, Va.
probably 1922 Born to Jack Copper and Marjorie Hall Ticehurst; later adopted as an adult by the actress Margaret Rutherford
1946 Emigrated to Canada, to Ojibway Reservation, Lake Nipigon, Canada; served as missionary, teacher, and midwife
1947-1949 Returned to England, taught theater and art at the Gregg School, Croydon
1950-1952 Returned to the U.S., worked as a society editor for The Nevada Daily Mail, Missouri
1952 Moved to New York, became society columnist for the Port Chester Daily Item
1955 Published Me Papoose Sitter
1957 Hall's play, Saraband for a Saint, performed in Harlem, New York
1957 Published Princess Margaret: An Informal Biography
1962 Hall moved permanently to Charleston
Hall legally adopted by Margaret Rutherford and her husband
1963 Publication of Vinnie Ream: The Story of the Girl Who Sculpted Lincoln
1967 Gender affirmation surgery, Johns Hopkins University, with name changed to Dawn Pepita Langley-Hall.
1963 Publication of Jacqueline Kennedy, a Biography
1969 Jan. Married John-Paul Simmons in Charleston, first legal interracial marriage in South Carolina; second wedding ceremony performed in England
1970 Publication of Rose for Mrs. Lincoln: A Biography of Mary Todd Lincoln
1971 Natasha Simmons born; birth certificate, created at a later date, declares Dawn Langley Simmons the birth mother
1982 Divorced John-Paul Simmons
1983 Published biography, Margaret Rutherford: Blithe Spirit
1995 Published autobiography, Dawn: A Charleston Legend
2000 Sept. 18 Died, Charleston, S.C.
Furnifold McLendel Simmons (1854-1940) was a U.S. Senator and political leader from North Carolina.
Roscoe Conkling (sometimes spelled Conklin) Simmons was born in Greenview, Mississippi, in 1878, and was a nephew of Booker T. Washington' third wife. Simmons graduated from Tuskegee Institute in 1899. He became a prominent journalist for newspapers like the Chicago Defender, the Washington Times-Herald, and the Chicago Tribune. He was also a lifelong Republican. He was a popular orator in the African American community and served as a director of the Republican National Committee's Colored Speakers Bureau for presidential campaigns between 1924 and 1936. Simmons died in April 1951.
Author and medical doctor Cuthbert O. Simpkins (b. 1947) wrote the first biography of jazz saxophonist and composer John Coltrane (1926-1967), titled Coltrane: A Biography (Perth Amboy, NJ: Herndon House Publishers, 1975). Coltrane was born in Hamlet, N.C., and his family moved to High Point in 1927, where he lived until 1943. Beginning in the mid-1940s, he regularly performed on tenor saxophone as a sideman, including stints in bands led by Jimmy Heath, Dizzy Gillespie, Miles Davis, and Thelonious Monk. By the early 1960s, Coltrane was leading his own ensembles, including an influential quartet with McCoy Tyner, Jimmy Garrison, and Elvin Jones. As a saxophonist, he brought renewed attention to the soprano saxophone in the 1960s, and as a composer and an improviser, Coltrane contributed to a number of harmonic and melodic innovations in jazz.
The letters of Martha Eleanor Booker Simpson (1928-2010) and Paul David Simpson (1918-2010) cover their years spent in college (1948-1952). Martha attended Elizabeth City Teachers College, Winston-Salem Teachers College, and Warren County Training School, while Paul attended Virginia State College and went on to work for Phenix High School while Martha completed her education.
Joseph Starke Sims was a Civil War Confederate officer, cotton grower, and South Carolina senator.
Rebecca Sittler is a photographer, writer, and Associate Professor of Art at California State University, Long Beach. She has exhibited her work at venues such as Sam Lee Gallery, Daviel Cooney Gallery, the Photographic Center Northwest, Torrance Museum of Art, the Griffin Museum, Atlantic Center for the Arts, RayKo Gallery, Photographic Resource Center, as well as the University of Florida, Texas Woman's University, Boston University, and Washington State University. Internationally, Sittler's photographs have been shown in Russia, South Korea, China, and England. She received her MFA from Massachusetts College of Art in 2003 where she studied with photographer Aberlardo Morell.
George Hoffman Slater was a landowner in Fauquier County, Va.
Miriam Slifkin is a women's rights activist in Chapel Hill who founded and was president of the Chapel Hill chapter of the National Organization of Women (NOW). She also helped found the Orange County Rape Crisis Center. She received a Ph.D. in Botany from the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill in 1968 and worked in that field for some time before dedicating herself to women's rights activism.
Baptist minister; pastor of the University Baptist Church, Austin, Texas from 1943-1969.
Florence Moss Smith was born in 1911. While she was an undergraduate student at Duke University from 1928 to 1932, her parents, Mr. and Mrs. C. W. Moss, lived in Mobile, Ala. As an undergraduate at Duke, she was active in the Y.W.C.A., took part in the Woman's Athletic Association, and belonged to the White Duchy.
Receiving her undergraduate degree in 1932, she returned to Duke periodically to pursue graduate studies. She worked at the Duke University Press from 1937 to 1938 and on Oct. 1, 1938, was appointed general personnel worker and counselor-at-large in the Woman's College at Duke University. The Woman's College Student Handbook indicates that by 1939 she held the position of Director of Religious Activities. She held this position until 1941 when she married Frank Ferrell Smith, also a Duke alumnus, who was with the U.S. Soil Conservation Service at that time. From the time her husband joined the U.S. Navy in 1942 until his discharge in 1945, Smith stayed with her parents who still resided in Mobile, Ala. During the war she was the primary person responsible for rearing their two sons, Frank Jr., born in 1942, and Howard, born in 1944.
After World War II, the Smith family settled in Alabama. By 1959, they were living in Loxley, Ala., and a third son James (Jim) had been born.
Three generations of Florence Moss Smith's family are represented in the collection, which ends in 1973. At that time, her son Jim had just competed law school at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, and Howard, having completed a tour of duty in Vietnam in 1971, was just getting out of the U.S. Army. By 1973, both of them had married. Frank Smith, Jr. died in March of 1960. When Ms. Smith gave the collection to the Rubenstein Library, she was living in Elberta, Ala.
Speculator and one of the founders of the Columbia Mining Company in Columbia Co., Ga.
Educator, insurance agent, and civic leader, of Durham, N.C.
Walter P. Sprunt was the president of the Seamen's Friend Society of Wilmington, N.C.
William (Bill) Erwin Stauber ran an advertising agency in Durham, N.C. and was a Durham County Commissioner in the 1970s. Stauber graduated from the University of North Carolina in 1940 and became a production manager for WPTF Radio in Raleigh, N.C. Stauber enlisted in the U.S. Navy in 1942 and was a deck officer on the light cruiser USS Biloxi in a year and half tour in the Pacific. In 1945, the commanding officer of the Biloxi arranged for Stauber to make a daily 3:45 radio broadcast for the ship, giving the crew news from the communications office.
Biographical Note: Jacob Stirewalt
Jacob Stirewalt
1805 Born August 17, in Rowan Cty., Va.
1833 Married Henrietta Henkel, New Market, Va.
1837 Licensed by the Tennessee Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran Church.
1838 Ordained by the Tennessee Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran Church.
1869 Died August 21; buried at Emmanuel Church, New Market, Va.
After his ordination, Jacob Stirewalt served pastorates in Shenandoah, Page, and Rockingham Counties in Virginia. He was an active member of the Tennessee Synod, often speaking at conventions held in Virginia, North Carolina, and Tennessee. He fathered four sons, two of whom became Lutheran ministers, and six daughters.
Biographical Note: Jerome Paul Stirewalt
Jerome Paul Stirewalt
1850 Born, April 11, New Market, Va.
1873 Ordained by the Tennessee Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran Church.
1878 Married to Tirzah A. Coffman, Shenandoah Cty., Va
1914 D.D. Lenoir Rhyne College. Hickory, N.C.
1920 Retired to New Market, Va.
1934 Died; buried at New Market, Va.
Jerome Paul Stirewalt, one of Jacob Stirewalt's four sons, studied theology under pastors of the Tennessee Synod. During his career as a pastor, which spanned from 1874 to 1920, he served fourteen different churches in pastorates in Virginia. Jerome Paul Stirewalt was very active in the leadership of the Tennessee Synod, serving as secretary for six terms, and four terms each as treasurer and president. He was a frequent contributor to Lutheran and secular periodicals and contributed an article on the history of the Tennessee Synod for "The Lutherans in America," edited by E.J. Wolf.
Biographical Note: Martin Luther Stirewalt
Martin Luther Stirewalt
1882 Born, July 24, New Market, Va.
1902 A.B. Lenoir Rhyne College, Hickory, N.C.
1906 B.D. Chicago Seminary.
1906-1909 Instructor, Weidner Institute, Mulberry, Indiana.
1907 Married Caroline Dentzer, Chicago, Ill.
Ordained, Chicago Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran Church.
1909 Professor of Ancient Languages at lenoir Rhyne College.
1921 D.D. Lenoir Rhyne College.
1922-1920 Professor of Practical Theology, Chicago Seminary.
1928 Graduate Study at Northwestern University, Evanston, Ill.
1930-1938 Pastor of a Lutheran Church in Salsbury, N.C.
1951 Retired to Hickory, N.C.
1955-1959 Associate Professor, Lenoir Rhyne College.
1935-1960 Member of the Board of Lenoir Rhyne College.
1960 Died, March 10, Hickory, N.C.; Buried in New Market, Va.
Martin Luther Stirewalt, the only son of Jerome Paul Stirewalt, served as an instructor at the Weidner Institue, a Lutheran School in a suburb of Chicago, from 1906-1909. He was active in the leadership of the North Carolina Synod, serving as vice-president from 1917-1922 and from 1919-1922 was the secretary of the joint commission overseeing the merger of the Tennessee Synod with the North Carolina Synod. He also served on the board of Lenoir Rhyne College from 1921-1922 and again from 1935-1960.
Biographical Note: Catherine A. Stirewalt
Catherine A. Stirewalt
1929 B.A., Carthage College.
1938 M.A., New York University.
1939-1941 Traveled to China to study Chinese and to begin missionary work for the Lutheran Church near Tsingtao in the Shantung Province.
1941-1943 Interned by the Japanese in the Weihsien Concentration Camp near Tsingtao, China during World War II.
1943 Repatriated to United States.
1947 Returned to China to resume missionary work for the Lutheran Church. Taught school in a Lutheran Mission near Tsingtao.
1949 Left China as the Communists came to power.
1950 Accepted as a Deaconess in the United Lutheran Church.
Catherine A. Stirewalt is the daughter of Martin Luther Stirewalt. Prior to pursuing her missionary activities, she worked as a high school teacher.
Rose Harriet Pastor Stokes (July 18, 1879 – June 20, 1933) was an American socialist activist, writer, birth control advocate, and feminist.
1912, May 13 Born in Vienna, Austria
1930-1934 Attended the Universities of Berlin, Bonn, and Zurich
1935 MA, Economics, Harvard University
1936-1941 Instructor and Tutor, Economics, Harvard University
1938 PhD, Economics, Harvard University
1941, Nov. 9 (with Paul Samuelson) "Protection and Real Wages," Review of Economic Studies
1941-1949 Assistant Professor (1941-1948), Associate Professor (1948-1949), Swarthmore College
1947-1948 Guggenheim Foundation Fellowship, University of Zurich
1949-2002 Associate Professor (1949-1953), Professor (1953-1982), Director of Center for Research on Economic Development (1963-1970), Professor Emeritus (1982-2002), University of Michigan
1960 Germany Between East and West and The Structure of the East German Economy
1961-1962 Head, Economic Planning Unit, Federal Ministry of Economic Development, Nigeria
1963-1964, 1964-1965 Chief, US Agency for International Development (USAID) economic mission to Tunisia
1966 Planning Without Facts: Lessons in Resource Allocation from Nigeria's Development
1966 Fulbright Professor, University of Heidelberg
1967 Member, Economic Section, International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)
1967 Head, IBRD Mission to Togo and Dahomey (now Benin)
1970 Member, USAID Mission to Nigeria
1981 Member, UN Mission to Malawi
1983 Chief, IBRD Mission to Benin
1994 Joseph Alois Schumpeter: The Public Life of a Private Man
2002, Mar. 31 Died in Ann Arbor, MI
In addition, Stolper participated in economic missions to Malta (1963), Liberia (1963), and Turkey (1968), and worked as a consultant to the Ford Foundation, USAID, the United Nations, and the IBRD (the World Bank). He also held various visiting professorships/lecturing posts at the Universities of Zurich, Heidelberg, and Munster.
His professional affiliations include membership in the American Economic Association, the Nigerian Economic Association, the International Institute of Public Finance, and the International Schumpeter Society (founding president).
1924 July 21 Born in St. Louis, Mo. to Charles Sumner and Madalene Martha (Chafin) Stone
1942-1943 Attended Springfield College
1943 Drafted, commissioned as a navigator in the U.S. Army Air Corps
1948 Graduated from Wesleyan University, A.B. Degree in political science and economics
1951 Graduated from the University of Chicago, M.A. in sociology
1956-1958 Represented CARE (Cooperative American Remittances Everywhere) in Egypt and India
1958 Began work as a journalist at the New York Age
1958 Oct. 4 Married Georgia Louise Davis
1960 Became Associate Director of the American Committee on Africa
Became White House correspondent and editor of the Washington Afro-African
1963 Became Editor-in-Chief and Columnist for the Chicago Defender
1965 Television commentator for WCIU Chicago
1964-1967 Press secretary and special assistant for New York Congressional Representative Adam Clayton Powell, Jr.
1967 Published Tell It Like It Is
1968 Publication of Black Political Power in America
1969 Commentator for The Today Show on NBC
1970 Publication of King Strut
1970-1972 Director of Minority Services for the ETS (Educational Testing Service)
1972-1991 Senior Editor and Columnist at the Philadelphia Daily News
1975 First president of the National Association of Black Journalists
First president of the Philadelphia Association of Black Journalists
1981 Nov. Served as negotiator in the Graterford Prison hostage situation in Graterford, PA
1985 Co-founded FairTest, the National Center for Fair & Open Testing
Became Professor of English at the University of Delaware
1989-1991 Attended Eastern Baptist Theological Seminary
1991 Appointed Walter Spearman Professor of Journalism and Mass Communication at UNC-Chapel Hill
1997 Served as readers' advocate for the St. Louis Post-Dispatch
2003 Published Squizzy the Black Squirrel: A Fabulous Tale of Friendship
2005 Retired from teaching
2014 April 6 Passed away in Capel Hill, NC
Peter Storey (b. 1938) was schooled in Cape Town, South Africa, spent some time in the South African Navy, and then trained for the Methodist ministry at Rhodes University. Storey pastored churches in Cape Town, and later served as a chaplain to Robben Island prison, where he ministered to Nelson Mandela. After two years in Australia, Storey returned to District Six, a coloured community in Cape Town whose people faced forced removal under apartheid law. Storey was prominent in the fight against these removals, at the same time launching a number of ministries, including The Carpenter's House, Cape Town's first non-racial community center, and founded Dimension, the national newspaper of the Methodist Church, which took an uncompromising anti-apartheid stance under his nine-year editorship.
He was appointed to Johannesburg's Central Methodist Church in 1976, the year of the Soweto uprising, and immediately questioned the all-white nature of the congregation. The following years saw the loss of some 200 white members, but also the creation of the first fully integrated Methodist church in the land. The Central Methodist Mission--as it became known--was a center of protest action against apartheid, often being surrounded and sometimes invaded by government Security Forces.
During this period Storey became Vice President of the South African Council of Churches (SACC) and was elected President of this body in 1981. In this position, he and Bishop Desmond Tutu, who was then General Secretary, steered the SACC through its most controversial and embattled era of anti-apartheid action. This included facing the notorious Eloff Commission of Inquiry into the SACC. His testimony to the Commission has been published under the title Here We Stand.
In 1984 Storey was elected President of the Methodist Church and co-lead an ecumenical delegation to the United Nations and Europe to urge international pressure against the South African Government's forced removal policy. He then became Bishop of the Central District, including Johannesburg and Soweto. He also headed up the Journey to the New Land transformation process, which has redesigned the Methodist Church for its mission in the new South Africa.
Committed to peacemaking, he co-chaired the Wits-Vaal Peace Secretariat, responsible for keeping the peace in the Johannesburg region in the run-up to the first democratic elections and became Patron of the Methodist Order of Peacemakers, which focused on non-violence. He was first chairperson of the Gunfree South Africa movement, and he was a member of President Mandela's Selection Committee for the Truth and Reconciliation Commission.
Storey has received honorary Doctor of Divinity and Doctor of Law degrees. His international ministry has included frequent preaching and lecturing journeys to the United States, Europe, and Australia, and he has addressed many conferences related to the situation in South Africa, the truth and reconciliation process, and world peace.
[Biographical Note adapted from: February 11, 1999 - Rev. Dr. Peter Storey at STH. Boston University School of Theology, March 24, 2003. http://www.bu.edu/sth/news/archive/storey.html] J. Doane Stott was a Methodist minister (N.C. conference) and missionary to Japan. A.B., Trinity College and B.D., Duke University.
Harriet Elisabeth Beecher Stowe (1811 June 14-1896 July 1) was an American abolitionist and author. Her novel Uncle Tom's Cabin(1852) was a depiction of life for African Americans under slavery; it reached millions as a novel and play, and became influential in the United States and United Kingdom. It energized anti-slavery forces in the American North, while provoking widespread anger in the South. She wrote more than 20 books, including novels, three travel memoirs, and collections of articles and letters. She was influential for both her writings and her public stands on social issues of the day.
St. Philip's Episcopal Church was founded in 1878 in Durham, N.C.
Deena Stryker (1933-), formerly Deena Boyer, was born in the United States, received her Baccalaureate in Paris, and began work as a multilingual journalist at the Agence France-Presse in Rome in 1958. She lived in Poland and Hungry in the late 1960s where she worked in radio. She did graduate work in Global Survival and Future Studies at the University of Massachusetts from 1974 to 1975, and during the Carter administration was a speech writer for Joe Duffy, the Assistant Secretary of State for Cultural Affairs from 1977 to 1978. Stryker has lived and worked in France, Italy, Cuba, Holland, the United States, and Eastern Europe.
すごろく, or sugoroku, are Japanese games similar to "snakes and ladders". These types of games typically involve numbered squares, which players navigate from bottom to top using dice, and where there may be "ladders" allowing a climb ahead or "snakes" causing a fall behind. Sugoroku may vary in structure and game play, and often include instructions on how to play. In the Meiji, Taisho, and early Showa periods (1890s-1940s and later), sugoroku games were sometimes included as inserts in newspapers and children's magazines.
Anita Arrow Summers (born 1925) is a white American academic and government economist. She earned an AB in economics from Hunter College in 1945, an MA in economics from the University of Chicago in 1947, and undertook doctoral studies at Columbia University. She worked as Head of the Urban Section in the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia's Research Department, and in various capacities at the University of Pennsylvania. She is currently a Senior Research Fellow at the Sell-Lurie Real Estate Center at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, and Professor Emerita of Public Policy and Management at Wharton. She served as a member of the Board of Directors of Meridian Bancorp, Inc., Merit Mutual Savings Funds, Advancted Technology Center, William Penn Foundation, Executive Services Corps, and as Chair of the Board of Directors of Mathematica, Inc. She is currently a member of the Board of Directors of Waverly Heights, Ltd.
Summers has notable family ties to other prominent economists. Her brother is Kenneth J. Arrow. Her husband, Robert Summers, is a noted economist and the brother of Paul A. Samuelson. Anita Summers's son is economist Lawrence H. Summers.
Walter Lee Sutton
Walter Lee Sutton was born in 1863 in Wilkes County, Georgia. In 1886, he married Harriet (Hattie) Louise Wynn, also from Wilkes County, and they had ten children, two of whom died at an early age.
Sutton attended school in Danburg, Ga., and in the early 1880s went to business college in Atlanta. Before he ran his own business he worked in the general merchandising business Sutton and Anderson, which was run by his father and uncle, and delivered the Atlanta Constitution to families in the area. From about 1888 to 1907, he was a partner with his brother-in-law, Thomas V. Heard, in the general merchandising business, Heard and Sutton, in Danburg. When this firm was dissolved about 1907, Sutton maintained the firm which continued as a general merchandising business under the name W. L. Sutton Company. Sutton was also a planter, cotton merchant, director of the National Banks of Wilkes, and a director of Pope Manufacturing Company of Washington, Ga.
In addition, Sutton was a member of the Danburg Baptist Church, where he served on the Board of Deacons and as Superintendent of the Sunday school. He donated land for the consolidated school built in Danburg in the early 1920s, served as a trustee of the school, and chairman of the Board of Education of Wilkes County. He was active in the Democratic Party, member of the Woodmen of the World, and the Wilkes County Farmers Club. Sutton died in 1947.
Information relating to the Anderson, Danforth, Sutton, and Wynn families is in an information folder filed at the beginning of the collection.
Sutton-Wynn Famlies
Sutton Family
(Moses Sutton m. Sarah Rhodes) >> John A. Sutton
(Edward R. Anderson m. Julia A. McLendon) >> Martha U. Anderson
John A. Sutton - m. 1862 - Martha U. Anderson >> Walter L. Sutton 1863-1947
Walter L. Sutton m. Harriet (Hattie) Louise Wynn in 1886.
Wynn Family
(John L. Wynn m. Minirea A. Thornton) >> Samuel K. Wynn
(Samuel Danforth m. *Harriet Brown) >> Emma Almira Danforth
Samuel K. Wynn - m. 1864 - Emma Almira Danforth >> Harriet Louise Wynn, 1867-1923
(*Harriet Brown had a sister Almira Brown Reab.)
Augustin Louis Taveau (1828-1886), was a planter and author born and raised in South Carolina. He was the son of Louis Augustin Thomas Taveau (1790-ca. 1857), planter; and his wife, Martha Caroline (Swinton) Ball Taveau (d. 1847). He attended school at Mt. Zion Academy, Winnsboro, South Carolina starting in 1838. From 1848 until 1854 Taveau lived usually in or near Charleston studying law while also developing an interest in poetry. During this time he took a two year trip to Europe largely financed through his father's estate. In 1855 Taveau had a book of his poems, "The Magic Word and Other Poems" (Boston, 1855), published under the pseudonym of Alton.
Late in 1861 Taveau settled on a farm near Abbeville, South Carolina, but soon afterwards joined the Confederate Army. His career in the army continued until 1865. Immediately after the war, papers containing letters and copies of letters were published in the New York Tribune by Taveau under the title of A Voice from South Carolina. In the letters he stated that former Southern leaders could not be trusted and condemning them for having allowed conscription. After searching for a place to live after leaving the army, Taveau and his family finally settled in 1866 on a farm near Chaptico in St. Mary's County, Maryland. From 1866 until his death he continued to write poems and other literary works, worked to get patents for several inventions and oversaw work on his farm.
Walter J. Taylor was born on September 4, 1934, and was educated as a mechanic in the San Francisco area. He was convicted several times for burglary, robbery, and other crimes, and was sent to San Quentin prison in 1968 following a string of burglaries in Berkeley, California. While in prison he attended classes, read and wrote about African Americans' struggle for justice and civil rights, and served on the San Quentin Inmate Advisory Council. He was later transferred to Folsom Prison. Many of his letters from jail mention his campaigns for prisoner rights, including a right to privacy in prisoner correspondence and his protesting of the censorship of Black newspapers for prisoners.
While in prison, Taylor maintained an active correspondence with his family and friends. This was supplemented through prolific correspondence to pen pals that he met through Sisters of Motivation, an organization that he founded to enable communication between women and black male prisoners. Although the Sisters of Motivation literature claimed that it was not a dating service, Taylor's correspondence reveals that he had relationships with several women that he appears to have met through the organization.
Although he was up for parole several times previously, Taylor was eventually granted parole in 1973. He remained in the Oakland area as a counselor for Thresholds, a community advocacy group targeted at juvenile delinquents. He also served as a collections agent for KDIA Radio, and opened his own record store, Oldies But Goodies. Taylor remained an activist for prisoner rights, running at one point for the Oakland Community Action Agency's administrative board. He also founded the Community Concern for Prisoners organization to help African American men in prison. Throughout his life, Taylor appears to have been actively writing articles, essays, poems, and songs, and this activity continued as well.
In October 1978, Taylor was arrested and held for four days as a suspect in the Stinky Rapist case. The Stinky Rapist was a serial rapist in Berkeley and Oakland, California, who police believe raped at least 62 women, beginning in 1973 and lasting for five years. The rapist was deemed stinky because many of the women reported him having a foul smell. None of the victims were able to see their attacker, making it impossible to identify him. Taylor was suspected due to his being in the vicinity in several of the cases, as well as his reported sexual fetishes, his peculiar behavior, and his known contact with some of the victims, two of whom were members of the Sisters of Motivation. The evidence being circumstantial, however, led police to release him without charging him. Taylor subsequently reported severe repercussions for his business and his job. The rapes stopped shortly afterward, and the statute of limitations ran out in 1981.
Not much is known about Taylor's life following the Stinky Rapist suspicions. He is believed to have died in 2007.
Team Detroit is an umbrella organization that includes J. Walter Thompson and a number of other sister advertising agencies who work for the Ford Motor Company in Detroit.
Edward Telfair was a merchant, member of the Continental Congress, and Governor of Georgia. He served three terms as Governor of Georgia and was the first governor to serve under the Georgia Constitution of 1789.
Victoria Tepe, Ph.D., is an experimental psychologist and neurophysiologist, author, and advocate for women's reproductive health and rights.
James Thomas, Jr. (1813-1882) was a tobacco manufacturer of Richmond, Virginia.
William Tilghman (1756-1824), was lawyer and chief justice of the supreme court of Pennsylvania. His law practice in Maryland related chiefly to Cecil, Kent, and Queen Anne counties. Tilghman's father, James Tilghman (1716-1793), was also a lawyer.
Residents of Felchville, Windsor County, Vt.
William and James Trahern were merchants in Brunswick (Brunswick Co.), Virginia.
U.S. biochemist; received 1972 Nobel Prize for Chemistry.
U.S. botanist, chemist and geologist.
Physician and professor of medicine, of New York State.
German professor of anatomy and zoology, Kiel.
First U.S. woman to receive a medical degree.
French psychiatrist.
English surgeon and gynecologist.
English surgeon.
U.S. specialist in diseases of the chest.
French physician and anatomist.
Physician of New York.
Physician and Governor of Massachusetts, 1816-1823.
Scottish physician.
English sanitarian.
North Carolina physician.
Gynecologist, of Lowell, Massachusetts.
French physician and medical professor.
Scottish toxicologist and pharmacologist.
English physician.
The Collegium Medico-Chirurgicum, Berlin, was connected to the Perpiniere, an institution founded in 1795 for the training of surgeons for the Prussian army.
U.S. President.
French surgeon, anatomist, and pathologist.
English ophthalmologist and otologist.
U.S. naturalist and hygienist.
English naturalist and biologist.
English geologist, paleontologist and antiquary.
French ophthalmologist and surgeon.
French physician and surgical anatomist.
Dorothea Lynde Dix (1802-1887) was an American author, teacher, and reformer who advocated for improving treatment and facilities for mental health care. She also served as a superintendent for nurses during the American Civil War.
Dix was originally from Hampden, Maine and attended school in Boston, Mass. She became interested in mental healthcare while living abroad in Europe, and returned to the United States to tour American facilities. She publicly advocated for the cause, lobbying healthcare officers and politicians, and raising funds through state allocations and private contributions to improve hospitals and medical treatment of mental health patients throughout the country. Her work led to the establishment of state asylums in North Carolina, New Jersey, and Illinois.
During the American Civil War, Dix was designated as Superintendent of Army Nurses for the Union Army. She sought formal training and opportunities for women in nursing, and over the course of the war appointed over 3000 nurses. She later fundraised for a national monument for deceased soldiers, now standing at Fort Monroe, Virginia.
Dix had recurring health problems throughout her life, and spent later years as a resident of the New Jersey State Hospital in Trenton.
Source: Norwood, Arlisha R. "Dorothea Dix," National Women's History Museum website, accessed 2022 Nov. 10: https://www.womenshistory.org/education-resources/biographies/dorothea-dix
Physician of Boston.
Physician of Salisbury.
Scots gynecologist and pediatrician.
Physician and professor at Jefferson Medical College.
Physician and professor of Georgia.
British astronomer and Artic explorer, sometimes listed as George Fisher.
Physician of Salisbury.
Physician of New York.
English surgeon.
Quaker physician, botanist and natural philosopher.
Loyalist and Boston physician and landowner.
French veterinarian.
Physician and specialist on leprosy.
French physician and translator of the work of Johann Peter Frank.
English medical missionary.
Physician in Jefferson County, Virginia (now West Virginia).
English physician.
English physician.
English physician and chemist.
London physician and editor of the British Medical Journal.
Physician of Massachusetts.
First woman elected coroner in the U.S.
Physician. The first to train the blind and deaf mutes in the United States.
German natural scientist and explorer.
Physician of Salisbury.
English zoologist and evolutionary biologist.
Physician of Connecticut.
Physician and chemist.
English surgeon.
Nephew of Edward Jenner.
English surgeon.
U.S. gynecologist and surgeon.
English physician, writer on gastronomy and optics.
French physician.
French surgeon.
English physician and chemist.
English physician.
Physician and chemist of New York.
North Carolina physician and professor of pharmacology.
French experimental physiologist.
British physiologist and surgeon.
Professor of surgery at the Jefferson Medical College.
Physician and scientist of Philadelphia.
English military physician.
Norwegian zoologist and oceanographer.
Josiah Clark Nott (1804-1873), born in South Carolina, was a surgeon, ethnologist, and specialist in infectious disease vectors; his first practice was established in Mobile, Alabama in 1833. He was an enslaver and was a well-known instigator of racist theories of white supremacy; together with Henry Hotze, he translated Arthur de Gobineau's book, "An Essay on the Inequality of the Human Races," from French into English.
English physician and philanthropist.
Physician and professor of Connecticut.
Physician and historian.
British surgeon.
U.S. naval surgeon.
Surgeon of King's College Hospital.
French physician and chemist.
Physician of Geneva.
French psychiatrist.
U.S. obstetrician and gynecologist.
French surgeon and anatomist.
Physician and medical professor of Charleston, South Carolina.
French physician; physician to Napoleon's army in Egypt.
Professor of anthropology at Brandeis University.
Physician and writer on the jurisprudence of insanity.
Swedish anatomist.
Physician of Boston.
French physician.
Italian pathologist and hygienist.
Patient at the New York St. Asylum, Utica, New York.
Physician and botanist of Charleston, South Carolina.
Philadelphia physician.
German obstetrician.
New York gynecologist.
Surgeon.
Pioneer of birth control and sexual education.
French surgeon.
French physician.
Pioneer, philanthropist and founder of Throop University, later the California Institute of Technology.
British surgeon.
Surgeon.
Scientist and natural philosopher.
German psychologist and philosopher.
Homeopathic physician.
French chemist and neurochemist.
German physiologist.
English novelist and social worker.
Physician and ophthalmic surgeon of Massachusetts.
Boston surgeon.
English physician and novelist.
Professor of obstetrics, College of Physician and Surgeons of the Western District, University of the State of New York.
English surgeon.
Physician.
Triangle Community Works! is an organization that seeks to serve as a framework, a resource, and a partner to meet the emerging needs of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and other communities in the Greater Triangle area of North Carolina. It was formed in 1994 and consists of a coalition of groups, including ASPYN (A Safer Place Youth Network), The Gay and Lesbian Helpline, P-FLAG (Parents, Families, and Friends of Lesbians and Gays), and RRNGLE (Raleigh Religious Network for Gay and Lesbian Equality).
The Gay and Lesbian Helpline, which joined TCW! in 1996, began operating in 1991 as the first hotline for the gay and lesbian community in the Raleigh area. It offers peer counseling, education, information, and referrals for callers about anything from gay-friendly bars to AIDS education.
ASPYN, another component of TCW!, serves as a community safe haven for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, questioning, and allied youth, ages 13-18.
More information about Triangle Community Works!, including their various programs and current activities, can be found on their website, http://www.tcworks.org/.
Arlin Turner
1909 Born November 25 in Abilene, Tex.
1927 Received B.A. from West Texas State University
1930 Received M.A. from the University of Texas
1934 Received Ph.D. from the University of Texas
1934-1936 Instructor at the University of Texas
1936-1953 Professor of English at Louisiana State University
1941 Published Hawthorne as Editor
1942-1946 Served in U.S. Naval Reserve
1947-1948 Awarded Guggenheim Fellowship
1951 Visiting Professor, University of Montreal. Visiting Professor, University of Colorado
1952 Awarded Fulbright appointment to University of Western Australia
1953-1979 Professor of English, Duke University
1956 Published George W. Cable: A Biography
1957 Visiting Professor, University of Texas
1958 Visiting Professor, University of Virginia
1958-1964 Chairman, Duke University Department of English
1959-1960 Awarded Guggenheim Fellowship
1960 Published Mark Twain and George W. Cable: The Record of a Literary Friendship
1961 Visiting Professor, University of Illinois
1961 Published Nathaniel Hawthorne: An Introduction and Interpretation
1962 Visiting Professor, University of Iowa
1963 Visiting Professor, New York University
1964 Visiting Professor, University of Bombay
1966-1967 Awarded Fulbright appointment to University of Hull, Hull, England
1968 Visiting Professor, University of Pennsylvania
1969 Huntington Library Research Award
1973-1974 Awarded Senior Fellowship, National Endowment for the Humanities
1974 Awarded James B. Duke Professorship
1976 Received Doctor of Humane Letters from Berea College, Ky.
1978 Visiting Professor, State University of New York
1979 Appointed Therese Kayser Lindsey Professor of Literature, Southwest Texas State University
1980 Published Nathaniel Hawthorne, a biography.
1980 Died, April 24 in Austin, Tex.
Organizational Service Biography
The following lists selected offices and leadership roles held by Turner in professional organizations as documented in this collection. Turner was active in other professional groups that are not represented in his papers. The dates reflect the years of the highest positions he held and do not represent the total period of his membership or leadership. The organizations are listed alphabetically.
1956-1967 Fellowship Selection Committee, 1961-1963, 1965-1966
American Council of Learned Societies (ACLS)
Regional Associate, 1956-1967
1954-1979 Managing Editor, 1954-1963
Editor, 1969-1979
American Literature
1955-1972 Advisory Council, 1955-1957, 1967-1972
Executive Committee, 1958-1959 
American Studies Association (ASA)
Vice President, 1969-1970
1956-1968 Member, Committee for American Studies 1956-1960, 1962-1963, 1967-1968
Committee for International Exchange of Persons, (CIEP), Conference Board of Associated Research Councils (CBC)
Chairman, Committee for American Studies, 1957-1960
1949-1967 Modern Language Association (MLA)
Chairman, American Literature Section, 1966-1967
Secretary, American Literature Section, 1949-1967
1961-1966 Director, Commission on Literature, 
1964-1966
Director, 1961-1964
National Council of Teachers of English (NCTE)
1968-1976 Member, Advisory Panel on Media Programs, 1976
Chairman, Fellowship Selection Committee, 1968-1972
National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH)
1956-1957 South Atlantic Modern Language Association (SAMLA)
Chairman, American Literature Section, 1956-1957
1956-1979 Member, Editorial Board 1956-1979
South Atlantic Quarterly
1955-1972 Southeastern American Studies Association (SEASA)
Vice-President, 1955-1956, 1968-1970
President, 1956-1957, 1970-1972
Henry Arlin Turner, a professor of English and Literature, is best known for his scholarship on Nathaniel Hawthorne and George Washington Cable. His interests also included Edgar Allan Poe, Herman Melville, Mark Twain, William Faulkner, Southern Literature, and American Humor writings. Turner authored, edited, or reviewed an extensive list of publications on these subjects, in addition to the monographs listed above.
The TCAS Academic Advising Center, formerly the TCAS Pre-Major Advising Center, located on East Campus provides academic advising resources to students before they declare a major. All freshmen are assigned an advisor upon matriculation and meet with this advisor until they declare their major, which must be done by the end of their fourth semester at Duke. The Academic Advising Center publishes a monthly newsletter and assists students with course selection, course dropping/adding, finding tutors, and major declaration among other things.
From http://www.duke.edu/aiesec/
The Duke University chapter of AIESEC was founded around 1966. AIESEC is an international, non-political, non-profit, student-run, independent, educational foundation. It is comprised of students and recent graduates of institutions of higher education who are interested in professional careers in economics and management. AIESEC provides companies with highly qualified, cost-effective temporary workers from many countries. These students and recent graduates provide insight into foreign markets and bring an international perspective to management. Internationally, AIESEC arranges the details to place more than 6,000 business graduates each year. In the United States, AIESEC provides traineeships with companies such as IBM, AT&T, Arthur Andersen, and General Electric.
The Duke University chapter was responsible for locating companies in North Carolina interested in sponsoring an international student for a short traineeship exchange, and for hosting foreign students. The Duke University chapter also worked with the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill chapter to provide orientation, entertainment, and guidance for students who came to the Raleigh-Durham, N.C. area on an AIESEC traineeship exchange. The Duke University chapter organized the exchange of many students during the late 1960s; the majority of students traveled to work in western European offices.
As of 2003, AIESEC is active at Duke University.
Alpha Kappa Psi was the first professional business fraternity in the United States. The fraternity was founded October 5, 1904 at New York University and is headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana. Alpha Kappa Psi's objectives are to further the individual welfare of its members, foster scientific research in the fields of commerce, accounts, and finance, to educate the public, and to promote courses leading to degrees in business administration.
The Beta Eta chapter at Duke University was chartered on December 7, 1929 in the School of Business Administration. There were 20 original members. Carroll Cunnin was the first president. Semi-monthly meetings were held on campus in the Union Ballroom. They included discussions of current topics in business and featured local businesspeople as speakers. Members of the fraternity also visited industrial organizations, assisted professors with business-related presentations, and corresponded with large organizations on business questions. The fraternity dissolved sometime after 1963.
The Duke Alumni Association's travel program arranges trips for alumni and a Duke faculty host to a wide variety of locations. Trips and destinations have included a South American Amazon cruise, a cruise through the Panama Canal, Morocco, Greece, Italy, Spain, England, and others.
The Duke Amandla Chorus is Duke University's first African chorus, and performs traditional music from various countries in Africa in the respective languages. The chorus shares stories about the culture and people and incorporates dancing and African instruments. "Amandla" is a Zulu and Xhosa word that means "power," and the Chorus uses music as an avenue to teach the Duke and Durham community about the multiplicity of African culture, history, and values.
The following brief history appears on the Lambda Nu website: http://www.duke.edu/apo/
Lambda Nu Chapter of Alpha Phi Omega was founded at Duke University in 1955 by Thomas R. Neese. Encouraged by area Boy Scout representative Bill Roth, Neese recruited Robert M. Graper and Joseph Griffin, fellow brothers of the Phi Kappa Sigma fraternity. Together, they organized the first pledge class with assistance from Rho Chapter of UNC-Chapel Hill. Sixteen men comprised this initial group, which first met in February of 1955. Potential service projects were discussed at this meeting, and the future Brothers choose a project blazing a nature trail at the Durham Children's Museum (now the Museum of Life and Science). This first project, which preceded the chartering of Lambda Nu, has been a regular project of the Chapter ever since.
The Chapter grew in prestige during the 1960s, despite a membership which hovered around twenty men during most of this period, and a need to establish itself among larger service organizations at Duke. APO appeared successful, expanding its service program to include a diverse range of projects.
In 1974, Lambda Nu began accepting women, a full two years before the National fraternity went co-ed. The Chapter was able to do this by submitting membership lists to the National office that included only first initials and last names. Soon afterwards, however, the Chapter began to drift apart, with its last active member deactivating around 1978.
In the Spring of 1979, Duke sophomore Bob McMahan learned about APO from friends who were Brothers at the Iota Lambda Chapter at North Carolina State. McMahan spent the fall 1979 semester researching the history of Lambda Nu and recruiting interested people. By April of 1980, Lambda Nu was reborn, initiating nineteen pledges.
As Duke grew during the 1980s, so did Lambda Nu. Alpha Phi Omega celebrated the opening of the Bryan Center in 1982 helping the Duke University Union raise money to buy the baby grand piano that now sits in the Center's Schaefer Mall. By the end of the 1980s, the Chapter was annually performing thousands of hours of service for the Durham community, working for groups like the Eno River State Park, Lenox Baker Children's Hospital, Genesis Home, Duke Rescue Mission, and many local hospitals, schools and shelters. In addition, the chapter's fundraising efforts grew to a donation approaching ten thousand dollars each year to a local charity.
The Office of Ordnance Research (OOR), U.S. Army, a Class II military institution, established offices on the Duke University campus in June 1951. Marcus E. Hobbs, Chairman of the Department of Chemistry, served as acting chief scientist until Tomas J. Killian took over in a permanent capacity. Hobbs was instrumental in developing the "skeleton of the organization" which continued throughout the life of the organization with only minor adjustments. The organization was divided into four main divisions chemistry, mathematics, engineering, and physics. Scientists to fill the top slots were drawn primarily from Duke University, with others from the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill, North Carolina State, and Virginia Polytech.
OOR first occupied the Hanes Mansion, but after 6 years, the burgeoning Office had outgrown the available space. In December 1958, OOR moved into a new building that was built for them on the Duke campus north of the School of Engineering. The OOR entered a lease arrangement with the University for the space helping to cover the cost of construction.
On January 16, 1961 the OOR ceased to exist and was instead re-designated as the Army Research Office-Durham (AROD) under the command of the Chief, Research and Development.
The 1960s and 1970s saw a weakening in the working relationship between the military and the scientific communities. In the spring of 1975 ARO left the Duke campus and moved to the Research Triangle Park ten miles southeast of Durham.
In an effort to bring all the revenue producing branches of the Business and Finance Division under one office in the early 1960s a Business Auxiliaries department was organized. It included Administrative Data Processing, Dining Halls, Housing Management and University Stores, and later, the Computation Center. From 1976 to 1980 a Campus Services department oversaw a number of activities that had been previously administered by the Physical Plant Department. These included custodial services, grounds maintenance, studio productions, office equipment, transportation, and mail. In 1980 the Auxiliary Services Division was created to replace Business Auxiliaries and Campus Services. In 2009, it was responsible for the operations of food services, special events and conference services, transportation and parking, housekeeping, housing management, office services, and the campus stores. See the newsletter, News and Views, FY1994-1995, for a history. In earlier years, parking was managed by Public Safety (now the Duke Police Dept.), but materials from that period are housed in this collection, rather than under Public Safety.
James David Barber was born in 1930 in Charleston, W. Va. and went on to receive his B.A. and M.A. from the University of Chicago and his Ph.D. from Yale University. After teaching at Yale for several years, he joined the faculty of Duke's Political Science Department as Chair in 1972. Barber was well known as a presidential scholar and published numerous books including The Presidential Character: Predicting Performance in the White House, The Pulse of Politics: Electing Presidents in the Media Age, Politics by Humans: Research on American Leadership and The Book of Democracy. He served as chair of Amnesty International U.S.A. during the mid-1980s. He remained a community activist in Durham after his retirement from Duke in 1995, helping to raise money for various causes. He died in 2004 at the age of 74.
The Sports Information Office provides information about Duke athletics to the media. They also facilitate press interviews with Duke athletes and coaches. For many years, the Sports Information Office has maintained records, photographs and other material about Duke athletic teams.
The Bassett Affair is a celebrated case that helped establish the concept of academic freedom in higher education in the United States and is a benchmark incident in race relations in the South. John Spencer Bassett, a Trinity College professor, published a series of articles in the South Atlantic Quarterly (1903) that praised the accomplishments of African Americans and offered views on how to improve race relations. A campaign to remove Bassett from the faculty was thwarted by a vote of support for Bassett from the University's Board of Trustees on Dec. 2, 1903.
The Sports Information Office provides information about Duke athletics to the media. They also facilitate press interviews with Duke athletes and coaches. For many years, the SI Office has maintained records, photographs and other material about Duke athletic teams.
John Saeger Bradway (1890-1985) taught law at Duke University School of Law from 1931 to 1959, where Nixon was one of his students. Bradway taught in California until his retirement in 1970. Bradway was married to Mary Henderson in 1921. He died on January 2, 1985 in Eureka, California.
Richard Milhous Nixon (1913-1994) attended the Duke University School of Law from 1934 to 1937, graduating number three in a class of twenty-six. During his three years at Duke, Nixon was active in the Duke Bar Association and was elected President in his senior year. Following school, Nixon began a political career. He was a Senator for California (1950-1953), the nation's 36th vice president (1953 to 1961), and was elected the 37th president of the United States, serving from 1969 until his resignation in 1974.
Nixon was the first U.S. president, since Andrew Johnson in 1868, to be the subject of formal impeachment proceedings in the House of Representatives. The impeachment process began on October 30, 1973, following a series of staff firings and resignations known as the Saturday Night Massacre prompted by the Nixon administration's attempt to cover-up its involvement with the 1972 break-in at the Democratic National Committee headquarters at the Watergate office complex in Washington, D.C.
On May 9, 1974, formal hearings in the impeachment inquiry of President Nixon began, culminating July 27â€“30, 1974, when the Democratic-led Judiciary Committee approved three articles of impeachment charging the president with obstruction of justice; injury to the constitutional rights of citizens; and the abuse of power. Once Nixon was told his that both his impeachment and his conviction were inevitable he resigned the presidency on August 9, 1974, before the House could vote on the articles of impeachment.
R. William Bramberg, Jr., of River Forest, IL, graduated from Duke University in 1957. While a student, Bramberg was a member of Alpha Tau Omega and Hoof'n'Horn.
The Duke Chapel Carillon Records contain the history of the Duke Chapel fifty-bell carillon which was installed in the tower in 1932 in honor of James B. Duke by George G. Allen and William Perkins, chairman and vice chairman of the Duke Endowment. It is used to play afternoon recitals, and programs on holidays and other public occasions. Duke's carillon is played manually from a keyboard located beneath the bells.
The instrument was cast in Loughborough, England by the John Taylor Bellfounders, Ltd. in 1932. The carillon was restored by the same company, now known as John Taylor and Co. in 1992. Anton Brees, who served as the first university carillonneur from 1932 to 1956, gave the inaugural recital on the Chapel carillon as part of commencement weekend in June 1932. While at Duke, Brees simultaneously played at the Bok Singing Tower at Lake Wales, Florida.
J. Samuel Hammond began playing the carillon in 1965 while a Duke undergraduate student in history. He became the Chapel Carillonneur in 1968. He later took on the position of music librarian, in 1974, making him the first music librarian at Duke. In 1986, Hammond transitioned to the role of rare book cataloger and was also designated university carillonneur by President Brodie. He retired from Duke University Libraries in 2012 and continued as university carillonneur until his retirement from the position in 2018. J. Samuel Hammond passed away in February 2021.
The Chamber Arts Society (CAS) was formed in 1945 to support classical music performances by small chamber ensembles at Duke University. Ernest Nelson, a professor of Renaissance History, led the formation of the Society with several other faculty members and was the first Director, 1945-1963. Leland Phelps, a professor in the German Department, was Director from 1963 to 1971, succeeded by Ruth Blum from 1979 to 2000. In 2000, Professor of mathematics Robert Bryant became Director and was then succeeded in 2007 by Professor of English George Gopen. Initially independent of the University, in 1985 the financial administration of the CAS was taken over by Susan Coon of the Duke Office of Cultural Affairs, later the Duke Institute of the Arts and then the Duke Performances Series. The CAS also has an Advisory Board of eight members of the University community who work with the Director of CAS and Duke Performances.
For the first 60 years of operation, the CAS held about five concerts per season, inviting well-respected artists from all over the world. Since George Gopen assumed the directorship, the CAS has held about eight concerts per season. Repeat performers have included the Beaux Arts Trio, the Julliard String Quartet, the St Lawrence Quartet, the Takacs Quartet, the Emerson String Quartet, and many others.
H. Keith H. Brodie received his M.D. in 1965 from Columbia University. He served at hospitals in New Orleans and New York City before becoming a clinical associate with the National Institute of Mental Health in 1968. In 1970, he joined the medical faculty of Stanford University. He came to Duke in 1974 as professor and chairman of the Department of Psychiatry and director of Psychiatric Services at Duke University Medical Center. Dr. Brodie served as Duke's Chancellor from 1982 to 1985 and as Duke's President from 1985 to 1993.
August Kenneth Pye (1931-1994) was twice Chancellor of Duke University (1970-1971 and 1976-1982). Educated at the University of Buffalo (B.A., 1951) and Georgetown University (J.D., 1953, LL.M., 1955), Pye held the positions of professor and associate dean at the Georgetown University Law Center, 1955-1966. Pye held a number of positions at Duke. In addition to the chancellorship, he was Dean of the School of Law (1968-1970), University Counsel (1971-1974), Acting Dean of the School of Law (1973), Dean of the School of Law (1973-1977), Director of the Center for International Studies (1982-1984), and Samuel Fox Mordecai Professor of Law (1982-1987). Upon leaving Duke University, Pye held the positions of President and Professor of Law at Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Texas (1987-1994).
President Emeritus R.L. Flowers was named Chancellor in 1949. The position was seemingly an honorary one, and there are no records of his tenure. The office was re-established in March 1969, when President Douglas M. Knight wanted an officer to assist with an increasing executive workload. The Chancellor was given responsibility for the internal operation of the University. Under the University By-Laws of May 10, 1988, the Chancellor was an executive officer with powers and duties assigned by the President. The occupants of the office have been Robert L. Flowers (1949-1951), Barnes Woodhall (1969-1970) (pro tem), A. Kenneth Pye (1970-1971), John O. Blackburn (1971-1976), A. Kenneth Pye (1976-1982), and H. Keith H. Brodie (1982-1985). With Dr. Brodie's inauguration as President, the office was left vacant until William G. Anlyan, M.D., was named Chancellor in 1988. He retired in 1990 and was not replaced.
When James B. Duke selected the site for Duke University's West Campus, in 1925, he chose to locate the Chapel on the site's highest ridge. The Chapel was the first building planned for the new campus, but the last one to be completed. Construction started in 1930, was completed in 1935, and cost nearly $2.3 million. The Chapel began to be used before its stained-glass windows and other details were finished; commencement was held in the Chapel in 1932.
Although the Chapel was inspired by other buildings, including English cathedrals and the chapels of other American universities, it is not a copy of any other specific building. The architect was Julian Abele, chief designer with the Horace Trumbauer firm, of Philadelphia. America's first black architect of renown, Abele was educated at the University of Pennsylvania and in France. In addition to Duke's original West Campus, he designed the Georgian buildings on Duke's East Campus. Abele's other designs include the Philadelphia Museum of Art, Harvard's Widener Library, and mansions for James B. Duke.
Lewis Nathaniel Chase was born in 1873 in Sidney, Maine and grew up in Rochester, New York. He earned his A.B. in 1895 from Columbia University. After graduation, he studied stage dancing at Daly's Theater and with several private instructors. He spent one year in Philadelphia selling office equipment before returning to Columbia University and earning his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees in 1898 and 1903, respectively. He subsequently taught English at the University of Indiana, the University of Louisville, and the University of Bordeaux in France. In 1910, he made a research trip to London, where an old acquaintance suggested that Chase write a volume on Poe for the Harrap's Poetry and Life series; this inaugurated Chase's exhaustive research into Poe's life. In 1916, Chase returned to the U.S. and taught Literature at the University of Wisconsin, and the University of Rochester. He relocated to India in 1920, where he was appointed professor of English Literature at Aligarh Muslim University. Within a few years, he moved to China, where he taught at four different universities. Eventually, he returned to the U.S., teaching at the University of California, the California School of Technology, Riverside College and Union College before joining the faculty of the English Department at Duke University in 1929. Besides Edgar Allan Poe, Chase also specialized in the work of Georgia poet Thomas Holley Chivers, utilizing Duke's collection of Chivers manuscripts. Chase died in 1937.
On November 21, 1852 the State of North Carolina authorized Normal College, Duke's predecessor institution, "to grant such degrees and marks of honor as are given by colleges and universities generally." The institution first awarded A.B. degrees the following year, and thus 1853 is our "degree date." Two brothers, D. C. and Lemuel Johnson, were the recipients, and made up the first graduating class. The 2009 commencement was the one hundred and fifty seventh. The University began printing commencement numbers on the programs in 1932, when that year's was marked as the eightieth commencement. The count therefore was started with the 1853 ceremony. Union Institute and Normal College did celebrate commencement before 1853; however no degrees were awarded at those ceremonies.
Since the 1920s, various counseling services had been offered by the University in cooperation with organizations such as the "Y" and the Southern Women's Educational Alliance. The Bureau of Testing and Guidance was created in 1944 to provide educational and vocational testing services to the University and on occasion to the Durham community. The first staff members were James M. Slay, an Assistant Dean of Trinity College, assistant director Jay Ostwalt, and administrative assistant Mrs. R.E. Lee. The office offered pre-college testing of applicants, placement testing, career counseling, and aptitude testing. It underwent major reorganization in the fall of 1950.
In the 1950s, Henry Weitz became director of the Bureau, the staff was enlarged, and the program's focus was changed to emphasize counseling, with testing placed in a supporting role. In 1964, the name of the organization was changed from the Bureau of Testing and Guidance to the University Counseling Center, further accentuating the role that counseling had come to play in operations.
As its primary mission, the Counseling Center offered general psychological counseling to students, faculty, staff, and the Durham community, particularly in the areas of career planning and education, as well as personal and social development. It also provided students with information concerning jobs, graduate school, financial aid, foreign study, and employment. In 1977, the Counseling Center merged with Student Mental Health Services to form Counseling and Psychological Services, or CAPS.
The Duke-UNC Center for Research on Women (CROW) was founded in 1982 as a collaborative endeavor between Duke University and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill to promote Women's Studies scholarship, research, and curriculum development in the South. With support from the Ford Foundation and the Rockefeller Foundation, smaller grants from local foundations, and institutional backing from both Duke and UNC-CH, the Center aimed to create a network among scholars and others in the region who were interested in the new scholarship on women.
The Center's regular activities included a post-doctoral humanist-in-residence fellowship program; the publication of a working papers series: Southern Women: The Intersection of Race Class and Gender, a joint effort with the Memphis State University Center for Research on Women; the publication of a biannual newsletter, Branches, which informed scholars and other interested individuals in the region about conferences, job opportunities, grants and the new scholarship on women; and a wide range of conferences, seminars and community events.
The Center also sponsored statewide and regional conferences on topics such as Pay Equity in North Carolina, Women and Work in the South, and Dialogues Between Black and White Women. Other activities included high school and college curriculum transformation projects, including the Ford funded project, Incorporating Women of Color Into the Undergraduate Curriculum; women's studies summer institutes; the 1988 annual Southeastern Women's Studies Association (SEWSA) meeting; and the 1991 Southern Association of Women Historians Conference. From 1985-1990 the Research Center was home to Signs: A Journal of Women in Culture and Society, one of the leading feminist scholarly journals in the country. The central purpose of the Center was to underline the dynamics of gender, race, and class as central themes upon which to base understanding of women's and men's experiences in the South.
The Center's Advisory Board included both Duke and UNC-CH faculty: Dorothy Browne (School of Public Health, UNC); William H. Chafe (History, Duke); Peter Filene (History, UNC); Barbara Harris (Women's Studies/History, UNC); Iris Hill (Center for Documentary Studies, Duke); Soyini Madison (Speech Communications, UNC); Micheline Malson (Inst. for Public Policy, Duke); Jean O'Barr (Women's Studies, Duke); Margaret O'Connor (English, UNC); Angela O'Rand (Sociology, Duke); Naomi Quinn (Anthropology, Duke); Janice Radway (Literature, Duke); Anne Firor Scott (History, Duke); Jacquelyn Dowd Hall (History, UNC) was the Academic Director and Christina Greene was the Project Director.
The Center's primary projects included:
Curriculum Transformation: grants from the Ford Foundation and the Rockefeller Foundation to work with faculty in the region to create or revise courses in the humanities and social sciences to reflect the new scholarship in women's studies with particular attention to issues of race and class. The Center's first Ford grant in 1982 provided support for the Duke and UNC-CH Women's Studies Program Directors to develop the Introduction to Women's Studies Course on each campus. In 1989-1992, Ford funded the project Incorporating Women of Color Into the Undergraduate Curriculum to work with Duke and UNC-CH faculty in four target departments: History, English, Sociology and Anthropology.
Research: Ford provided funding in 1982 for 11 faculty and 28 graduate students from Duke and UNC-CH whose work addressed the Center's focus on gender, race and class.
Signs: A Journal of Women in Culture and Society: In 1985, the Center won a national competition to become the host (1985-1991) to the leading scholarly feminist journal. Many of the Center's Advisory Board members served as editors for the journal. 
Rockefeller Humanist-In-Residence Fellowship Program: From 1987-1992, the Center received grants from the Rockefeller Foundation to bring scholars to the Center for a year to work on a book-length manuscript on race, class, and gender. These funds provided support for 11 scholars (mostly junior scholars), all of whom were able to turn dissertations into books or make substantial progress on completing a second book.
What Difference Does Difference Make: The Politics of Race, Class, and Gender: Ford and Rockefeller Foundation grants provided funds for a national conference to explore the state of the current scholarship on diversity. The conference, held May 1992, brought together scholars in women's, racial, ethnic and critical legal studies to explore some of the current debates surrounding work on diversity, including the controversies over "political correctness" and multiculturalism, affirmative action and the Columbus quincentennial.
Pay Equity in North Carolina: The Center received funding from the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation to promote pay equity (based on gender and race equity) in North Carolina through a statewide conference and a pay equity study/project which would serve as a model for similar efforts throughout the state. The Center completed the second phase of the project in the fall of 1992, and Orange County became the first public entity in North Carolina to conduct a pay equity study and make pay adjustments in accordance with its findings.
Visiting Lectureship Series: (funded largely through UNC-CH) brought nationally acclaimed scholars including Kate Young, Joyce Ladner, Gerda Lerner, Frances Fox Pivens, Annette Kolodny, Johnella Butler, Alison Jaggar, Rosalind Petchesky, Ethel Klein, Grace Baruch, and bell hooks to both Duke and UNC-CH for several days to conduct small seminars for faculty and graduate students and to deliver public lectures on both campuses.
Branches: published quarterly and then biannually, the Center's newsletter reached any scholars and interested persons in the Southeast with information about conferences, jobs, funding opportunities and the new scholarship on women. 
The Center also sponsored a wide-range of other grant funded projects such as Dialogues Between Black and White Women; Common Differences Between Black and White Women and hosted both the Southeastern Women's Studies Association Conference and the Second Southern Conference in Women's History.
In the 1970's, dance at Duke, under the excellent guidance of Julia Wray, was housed in a very supportive Physical Education department. The course offerings included two levels of modern dance technique, modern dance repertory, composition, improvisation, and two or three courses in dance history. Two full length concerts as well as 2 or 3 informal events were offered each year. In the late 70's, two levels of ballet technique were added to the curriculum. In the 80's, after dance was moved from Physical Education and placed within the Institute of the Arts, the program developed increased rigor in its training both in the studio and in theory courses. As the number of full time faculty grew from two to seven, the selection of courses increased dramatically.
Adapted from: http://danceprogram.duke.edu/about/history Founded in 2014, Desarrolla is a Student Organization Finance Committee-funded organization whose goal is to promote Latin America by encouraging partnerships between members of the Duke community and communities and countries within Latin America. From their website, Desarrolla promotes its goals by positioning Latin America among Duke members as a continent of opportunities and empowered communities, facilitate partnerships between Latin America and the Duke community, and support sustainable projects that empower Latin American communities and organizations.
"The Duke Human Rights Center at the Franklin Humanities Institute brings together an interdisciplinary group of scholars, staff and students to promote new understandings of and action on human rights. We engage with issues of race, ethnicity, gender, sexuality, religion, income inequality, the environment, the philosophy and history of human rights, the literature that emerges alongside it, linguistic rights, and artistic responses in our research, teaching, programming and outreach. Our goal is to foster strategies and collaborative, cross-disciplinary and critical thinking about human rights in both local and global contexts. The Center is committed to social justice. In partnership with the FHI, we see the humanities as an essential frame and launch point for inquiry. We develop undergraduate courses and global experiences, sponsor campus-wide events that encourage awareness and activism on human rights and engage in long-term partnerships with community-based organizations."
The DHRC at FHI offers a Human Rights Certificate for undergraduate students, as well as a number of programs including the Rights! Camera! Action! Film Series, RightsWatch, and Bass Connection programs in Human Rights. Since 2009, the DHRC has run the Pauli Murray Project, a series of programs and events for the Durham community.
Source: The Duke Human Rights Center at the Franklin Humanities Institute website, Mission Statement, https://humanrights.fhi.duke.edu/who-we-are/mission-statement/, accessed 2019 September 05.
Dick Groat was born in Wilkinsburg, Pennsylvania on November 4, 1930. At Duke, Groat played basketball and baseball and accumulated numerous awards and accolades for his performances in both sports. In basketball, Groat was named All-American in 1951 and 1952 and United Press International's (UPI) National Player of the Year in 1952 after setting an NCAA single-season scoring record with 839 points. Groat was also named the Southern Conference Male Athlete of the Year in 1951 and 1952, the Southern Conference Basketball Tournament's Most Outstanding Player in 1951 and 1952 while also earning all-conference baseball honors in those two seasons, and the Helms National Player of the year in 1952. Additionally, in May 1952, Groat's #10 basketball jersey became the first to be retired in Cameron Indoor Stadium and the only until 1980.
Groat signed a contract with Major League Baseball's Pittsburgh Pirates shortly after graduating in 1952. Groat also served two years in the United States Army from 1953-1955 and played in armed service basketball and baseball leagues. Groat went on to have a fourteen year career in the big leagues with the Pittsburgh Pirates (1952-1962), St. Louis Cardinals (1963-1965), Philadelphia Phillies (1966-1967), and the San Francisco Giants (1967). Groat was a member of the World Series Champion Pittsburgh Pirates (1960) and St. Louis Cardinals (1964). He was also a five-time All-Star selection and in 1960, the National League's Most Valuable Player and the recipient of the Lou Gehrig Memorial Award. While most well-known for his Major League Baseball career, Groat was also selected by the Fort Wayne Pistons in the first round of the 1952 National Basketball Association amateur draft.
Duke Inquiries into Social Relations was a student-run organization that aimed to investigate and raise awareness of the state of social and gender relations among undergraduates.
Most of the negatives were produced by the Office of News and Communication's News Bureau in the early years of Duke University and later by University Photography (upon its establishment). The Office of News and Communication continues to work with the news media and others to highlight the activities of Duke's faculty, students and staff while University Photography documents the people and programs of Duke University, providing high-quality images for departments, special events, sports programs, the news media and others.
The Duke Chapel is the central focus of Duke University's West Campus, a Gothic-style church rising 210 feet high and completed in 1935. It is constructed with what is commonly called Duke stone, a bluestone from a quarry in Hillsborough, N.C., which is used across West Campus. The Chapel contains 77 stained glass windows and hundreds of carvings and sculptures depicting scenes from the Bible.
In 1924 James B. Duke created the Duke Endowment, funding the development of Trinity College, which renamed itself Duke University. James B. Duke was closely involved with the planning of the new campus for the university, and declared "I want the central building to be a church, a great towering church which will dominate all of the surrounding buildings." The firm of Horace Trumbauer of Philadelphia, P.A., was hired to design the new campus, and the chief designer of the Trumbauer firm was Julian Abele, the first African American graduate of the architecture program at the University of Pennsylvania.
Construction on the Chapel began in 1930, with the cornerstone laid on October 22; the majority of the initial construction on West Campus had been completed already. Construction took more than two years, although the Chapel was not completely finished and formally dedicated until 1935; the building was complete enough to be used for Commencement in 1932. Designed in an English Gothic style, the building combines modern materials such as steel trusses with traditional architectural methods such as flying buttresses.
The stained glass windows were created between 1931 and 1933, and were designed and made by G. Owen Bonawit. A panel in Window 2, the Noah window, also credits designer S. Charles Jaekle and craftsman Hugh Doherty. Bonawit apparently selected the subjects depicted in the windows.
Stone carving was done by the John Donnelly Company; woodwork by Irving and Casson-A.H. Davenport, Inc.; ironwork by William H. Jackson Company; carving of the sarcophagi in the Memorial Chapel tombs by Charles Keck; and the carillon was cast by the Taylor Bell Foundry of England. It is unknown exactly who chose the subjects of the exterior and interior carvings. John Donnelly was located in New York, and is likely the one who chose the subjects of the exterior carvings, consulting with a professor from Vanderbilt University. The statues include what appear to be several mistakes: the statue meant to depict Thomas Coke, an 18th century Methodist bishop, may actually depict Thomas Coke, a 17th century English judge; the statue of Robert E. Lee originally had a belt buckle that read U.S. despite Lee being famous as a Confederate general; and other unusual choices.
The original main organ was created by the Aeolian Company, and in 1976 the Chapel received a new organ made by Dirk Flentrop, which was officially named the Benjamin N. Duke Memorial Organ but is commonly referred to as "the Flentrop." A smaller organ is located in the Memorial Chapel.
The Chapel also includes a Memorial Chapel and crypt. Entombed in the Memorial Chapel are James Buchanan Duke, Washington Duke, and Benjamin N. Duke, all of whom were removed from Maplewood Cemetery in 1935. Within the crypt can be found Duke President William P. Few, Duke President and N.C. politician Terry Sanford, and several other figures from Duke's history.
Beginning in 1994, some of the stained glass windows underwent restoration by artisan Dieter Goldkuhle. From 2015 to 2016, the ceiling and roof of the Chapel were completely restored.
In August 2017, after the white supremacist rally and counter-protests in Charlottesville, Va., of August 8, and subsequent protests in the Durham and Chapel Hill areas that included the toppling of a Confederate statue in front of Durham City Hall, the statue of Robert E. Lee was vandalized. Duke President Vincent Price ordered the removal of the statue of Lee from the entrance to the Chapel to an unknown location. In 2018, President Price announced that no new statue would be added, and the spot remains empty.
The book Duke Chapel Illuminated was published in 2001. Photographs of the stained glass windows and other Chapel images were done by Les Todd and Chris Heldreth of Duke Photography. The text was written by Minnie Glymph and the design by Lacy Chylack, both of the Duke University Medical Center.
Sources: Duke Chapel Illuminated, Duke University Archives, David M. Rubenstein Rare Book & Manuscript Library, Duke University.
The Architecture of Duke University, Duke University Archives, David M. Rubenstein Rare Book & Manuscript Library, Duke University.
"Robert E. Lee statue is removed from Duke Chapel," 2017 August 19, The Chronicle, https://www.dukechronicle.com/article/2017/08/robert-e-lee-statue-removed-from-campus, viewed 2018 October 04.
Duke Photography was the official photography service for Duke University from the mid-twentieth century through 2018. The service accepted requests for photographs from offices and individuals around campus, assigning each request a job number, and staff photographers took pictures on a variety of photographic formats, recording some information about the subjects of the images as well as the requesting departments.
Duke Taekwondo is a Sport Club training in the World Taekwondo style of Taekwondo. From their website, Duke Taekwondo practices "primarily for Olympic-style sport taekwondo sparring," as well as coaching in poomsae (forms). Several times throughout the year, Duke Taekwondo travels to participate in regional and national competitions. As of 2019, Duke Taekwondo offers belt rank-testing during each semester.
Louis Dupree was born in Greenville, North Carolina in 1925. He attended Greenville High School until about 1943, enlisting in the armed forces before earning his diploma. He served in World War II, first as a merchant seaman, then as an officer in the 11th Airborne Division in the Philippines campaign and occupation of Japan. Dupree received the Mariner's Medal, Merchant Marine Combat Bar, Combat Infantry Badge, Purple Heart, and Bronze Star.
During 1947 to 1955, Dupree earned his bachelor's, master's, and doctorate degrees in Anthropology from Harvard. He began research in Central and South Asia in 1949. In the United States, Dupree taught and conducted research at Air University, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama, from 1953 to 1957. In 1957, he accepted a teaching appointment in the Anthropology Department at Pennsylvania State University. Dupree taught as a Visiting Professor at Kabul University (Afghanistan), Princeton University, and the United States Military Academy at West Point.
From 1959 to 1983, Dupree was a representative of the American Universities Field Staff (AUFS) in Afghanistan and Pakistan. He spent two years researching and writing under the AUFS program, returning to the United States every third year to lecture at the twelve universities sponsoring AUFS. Dupree was also director of several archaeological surveys and excavations in Afghanistan from 1959 to1983, sponsored by American institutions such as the American Museum of Natural History, the National Science Foundation, the American Philosophical Society, and the National Endowment for the Humanities. His excavation on upper Paleolithic sites at Aq Kupruk in northern Afghanistan won international acclaim.
In 1966, Dupree married Nancy Hatch in Afghanistan, whom he had met while she was writing a guidebook of the Bamiyan area of Afghanistan. The Duprees continued to intermittently live and work in Afghanistan.
While on AUFS business in Kabul, Afghanistan just prior to the 1978 Soviet Invasion, Dupree was imprisoned by Afghans and their Soviet advisors. He was interrogated at length about United States intelligence operations and his interactions with Afghans. He was ultimately released through the intervention of Afghan friends. The account of his imprisonment appears as a six-part series, Red Flag over the Hindu Kush in American University Field Staff Reports (1980).
As other nations became interested in the plight of Afghanistan, the Duprees were called upon to advise the parliaments or foreign ministries of Germany, France, Sweden, Norway, England, Austria, Pakistan, and to the United Nations High Commission on Refugees. Dupree frequently corresponded with Pakistan's president, General Mohammed Zia Ul-Haq. In the United States, Dupree acted as a consultant to the State Department, United States Agency for International Development (U.S. AID), the Peace Corps, Esso Pakistan Fertilizer Company, United Nations Development Programs, UNESCO, Helsinki Watch, Amnesty International, the World Bank, and other organizations.
In 1985, after teaching for one year at West Point Military Academy and another year at Princeton University, he joined the Program in Islamic and Arabian Development Studies at Duke University as a Senior Research Associate. He held concurrent appointments at Duke University as Visiting Professor of Anthropology, Political Science, and Public Policy Studies. He also taught at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in the departments of Anthropology and Political Science.
The Islamic and Arabian Development Studies Program operated at Duke from 1977 to 1989 under the direction of Professor Ralph Braibanti. It funded the acquisition of library materials that supported its mission, facilitating the accession to the Duke libraries of two major Middle Eastern collections: the Joseph J. Malone Collection on Arabian Affairs and the Louis and Nancy Hatch Dupree Collection on Islamic Inner Asia. The Dupree Collection consists of about 5,000 items, 200 of which are located in the David M. Rubenstein Rare Book & Manuscript Library. Reflecting the careers and interests of their donors, the materials in the collection focus on the anthropology, art, archaeology, folklore, linguistics, and history of Afghanistan. There are also significant holdings on Islam, the Central Asian Republics, and South Asia.
A social activist, Dupree was Honorary Director and one of the founders of the Afghan Relief Committee. The beneficiaries of the Afghan Relief Committee were primarily Doctors Without Borders, Freedom Medical of Washington, D.C., Aide Medicale International, and Sainte Sud of Marseilles. Dupree was involved with the Afghanistan Action Committee at Duke University and corresponded with members of many other humanitarian assistance organizations.
Dupree and Nancy Hatch Dupree spent years researching and living in Afghanistan and planned to retire there. Together they researched and planned to write a book on Afghan refugees in Pakistan. By 1987, their collaborative work earned them a joint award, the International Rescue Committee's Bronze Medal for Service to Afghanistan Refugees. In 1988, the Duprees returned to Pakistan as Joint Fulbright Senior Scholars. Louis Dupree authored many books and over 200 articles. His articles appeared in various publications such as American Anthropologist, the Middle East Journal, the Economist, the New York Times, the Nation, Evergreen Review, and the Khyber Mail.
Some of the books authored by Dupree include: Afghanistan (1973), Physical Anthropology of Afghanistan (1970), Changing Patterns of Social Structure in Afghanistan (1970), Deh Morasi Ghundai: a Chalcolithic Site in South-Central Afghanistan (1963), and The Desert Survival Field Test (1956).
Louis Dupree died in 1989 at the age of 63. Nancy Hatch Dupree continued her work with Afghan refugees.
Born in Shelby, NC in 1870, Robert Lee Durham was a member of the Trinity College championship football team of 1891, the same year of his graduation. He received a law degree in 1892 and subsequently practiced law until 1909, taking time out to fight in the Spanish-American War. During 1909-1919, he served as dean and mathematics instructor at various institutions including Davenport College, Centenary College, and Martha Washington College. In 1919, he became president of Southern Seminary, a school for girls in Buena Vista, VA. He was the brother of Stonewall and Plato Durham, and the father of Dr. Margaret Robey, all Trinity graduates. He died in 1948 after a brief illness.
The Duke University Union, founded in 1954 as the Duke Student Union, has as its purpose promoting social, recreational, cultural, educational and spiritual activities at Duke. Membership is now open to all members of the Duke community. At present (2009), an executive group and program directors administer the Union.
ECOS (Environmentally Conscious Organization of Students) was formed at Duke University in 1969. ECOS grew to include members of the Durham, N.C. community in their efforts to educate people on environmental concerns. Other environmental groups active around the Raleigh-Durham, N.C. area in the early 1970s were: Chapel Hill ECOS, Organization for Environmental Quality (Raleigh), and the Conservation Council of North Carolina.
ECOS members were advocates of University-wide recycling, conservative population growth, and responsible consumption. At Duke University, members proposed an environmental studies program and organized a teach-in. ECOS came to be known for their recycling efforts, employing a small staff to collect newspapers, aluminum, and glass for resale to local companies.
Some of ECOS' awareness-raising activities included a Bike-a-Thon between Raleigh and Durham, protesting the development of the Eno River area, protesting construction of the New Hope Dam, and lobbying for environmentally sound work spaces. The Eno River Park project was particularly important to the Durham, N.C. region. In the early 1970s, ECOS and supporters led a campaign to save the Eno River area from commercial development. Due to ECOS' protest efforts, the city of Durham withdrew its efforts to construct a reservoir. The Eno River State Park was established in 1972.
As of 2003, ECOS is known as the Environmental Alliance and is active at Duke University.
taken from Pratt School of Engineering website: http://www.pratt.duke.edu/about/history.php
The Pratt School of Engineering traces its history back to 1851 when Normal College, a forerunner of Duke University, advertised a Classical course which included engineering for seniors. Normal College became Trinity College in 1859 and engineering was introduced in 1887 and became a regular course offering in 1903.
When Trinity became Duke University in 1924, engineering underwent vigorous development.
1927 Civil and Electrical Engineering departments were established.
Classrooms/labs located in Asbury building on East campus. Engineering students were housed in Southgate building on East campus.
1931 Mechanical Engineering department established.
1937 Departments of CE, EE, and ME were administratively grouped to form the Division of Engineering.
1939 The University incorporated the Division of Engineering into the College of Engineering.
1946 First women to graduate from the College of Engineering: Muriel Theodorsen Williams (EE) and Marie Foote Reel (EE).
1947 Male Engineering students relocated to West Campus.
1948 College of Engineering moves to West Campus and begins classes in new Engineering Building (Old Red), now Hudson Hall.
1960 Doctor of Philosophy degree first offered in Electrical Engineering.
1964 Doctor of Philosophy first offered in Civil Engineering.
1966 College of Engineering changed to School of Engineering.
1968 First black engineers to graduate from School of Engineering: Kenneth Spaulding Chestnut (CE) and Alfred J. Hooks (ME).
1971 Department of Biomedical Engineering established — First BME Department established at a university in the United States — set the stage nationally for other BME Departments.
1984 Nello L. Teer Library Building opens.
1992 Engineering building, (Old Red) named Hudson Hall to honor Fitzgerald S. "Jerry" Hudson E'46.
1994 Levine Science Research Center opens.
1999 Kristina M. Johnson becomes first woman dean.
Duke University School of Engineering named the Edmund T. Pratt Jr. School of Engineering for Edmund T. Pratt Jr. E'47.
2004 Construction was completed on the Center for Interdisciplinary Engineering, Medicine and Applied Sciences in August. Pratt hosts dedication on November 18, 2004. Duke's Board of Trustees approve renaming CIEMAS in honor of Michael and Patty Fitzpatrick. CIEMAS is now formally known as the Fitzpatrick Center for Interdisciplinary Engineering, Medicine and Applied Sciences, informally dubbed the Fitzpatrick Center.
The Sports Information Office provides information about Duke athletics to the media. They also facilitate press interviews with Duke athletes and coaches. For many years, the SI Office has maintained records, photographs and other material about Duke athletic teams.
The Friends of Duke Chapel was founded in 1974 to provide the means for interested persons to organize into an ongoing, supportive, participatory group to support the ministry and program of Duke Chapel. The Friends open membership to anyone interested in the Chapel and its program. It grew out of a predecessor group called the Full Membership Chapel Group, organized under and continuing the name of Duke University Church (Interdenominational). Full Members supported the Chapel program but membership was limited to persons affiliated with the University either as faculty or staff. As part of its mission, the Friends of Duke Chapel provide funds to aid numerous aspects of the Chapel program such as the chapel choir, organ, vestments, renovation needs, and provision of televised services. Membership benefits included weekly mailing of the Sunday bulletin, announcements and invitations to services, concerts, and music programs, as well as a Friends of Duke Chapel newsletter.
The Friends have continuously helped fund and contribute to numerous initiatives and renovations of the Chapel, including the construction of a handicapped ramp access to the Chapel, installation of the Flentrop organ, and providing televised access to the Sunday services for patients at Duke Medical Center. They also contributed to enriching the preaching and theologian-in-residence programs.
An Advisory Board governs the group. Originally a nine-person board, it was enlarged to a thirteen person board in 1981, always including the Dean of the Chapel. Past board members include William Stokes, Helen Crotwell, Jack Blackburn, Arthur Kale, William King, Ella Jean Shore, Carolyn Penny, and Mary Parkerson, who became the first Friends Director in 1980.
In 1968, the University's Board of Trustees approved the establishment of a Graduate School of Business Administration and the award of the M.B.A degree. The School opened in the fall of 1970, the last of the schools James B. Duke requested that the University include. In 1980, John Brooks Fuqua, Atlanta entrepreneur and philanthropist, endowed the school with $10 million and it was renamed in his honor. Deans have been Louis D. Volpp, 1970-1973; Danny Laughhun, 1973-1974; Tom Keller, 1974-1995; Rex Adams, 1995-2001; Douglas Breeden, 2001-2007; and Blair Sheppard, 2007-
William Trigg Gannaway was born in Wythe County, Virginia in 1826. He graduated from Emory and Henry College in Bristol, Tennessee in 1847. In the autumn of that year, he opened a high school at Floyd Court House, Virginia. He conducted this school for a few years when he was elected head of a high school at Germanton, North Carolina. He ran this school until he was appointed Professor of Latin and History at Trinity College in Randolph County, North Carolina in 1857. In the absence of Braxton Craven, Gannaway served as President of the college from 1863-1865. He remained at Trinity College until it moved to Durham in 1892, when he retired from teaching. After retiring, he kept his home and farm in Randolph County. He died in 1911.
Gilbert-Addoms Residence Hall opened in 1957 and is constructed of buff brick with limestone trim. Its name commemorates two outstanding scholars who began teaching at Duke with the founding of the Woman's College: Dr. Katherine Everett Gilbert and Dr. Ruth Margery Addoms. In 1930, the new West Campus opened and what had been the Trinity College campus (now East Campus) became the Woman's College.
Gilbert-Addoms, the largest dormitory on East Campus, is home to freshman undergraduate students. Gilbert-Addoms is located between Southgate and Blackwell Residence Halls.
William Henry Glasson (1874-1946) was a white American academic economist and administrator who was born in Troy, New York. He received a PhB from Cornell University in 1896 and a PhD from Columbia University in 1900. He was head of the Department of History and Civics at the George School (Newton, PA) from 1899-1902 and came to Trinity College after. During this tenure at Trinity and Duke University, he was instrumental in the development of the Department of Economics and the Graduate School. He was Professor of Political Economy and Social Science from 1902-1940; appointed in charge of the establishment of the retirement annuity plan for the faculty and administration; the head of the Department of Economics and Business Administration; chairman of the faculty committee on graduate instruction; and dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences from 1926-1938. He was secretary of the Phi Beta Kappa Society for the South Atlantic district; editor of the South Atlantic Quarterly from 1905-1909; and a member of the Durham Board of Education.
The Duke Graduate Liberal Studies program was founded in 1984, under director Bonnie E. Erickson. Additional previous directors include Diane Sasson and Donna Zapf. The program grants a Master of Arts in Liberal studies (MALS) and is sometimes referred to as the MALS program.
The Duke Graduate Students Union (DGSU) formed in early 2016, when graduate student workers partnered with the Service Employees International Union (SEIU). These two organizations campaigned to form a majority union and petitioned the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB). The election in March 2017 was inconclusive: although the tabulated votes indicated the vote would fail, enough ballots remained contested by SEIU and the University to tip the vote in either direction. SEIU, acting on behalf of DGSU, withdrew the petition to unionize from the NLRB. Since spring 2017, DGSU exists as a direct-action, direct-join union and is active on campus advocating for increased benefits for graduate student workers, as well as organizing alongside other employee labor groups at Duke University.
John R. Gregg (1916-2009) was a Biological Science Professor Emeritus at Duke University. After earning an undergraduate degree from the University of Alabama and his PhD from Princeton University, Gregg served as a professor in the Duke University Zoology department from 1957 to his retirement in 1986. During his time at Duke, Gregg served as the acting chair of the Zoology department chair from 1958-1959 and as director of graduate studies from1968-1971. Gregg authored 33 publications during his academic career including two books, The Language of Taxonomy (1954) and Form and Strategy (1963). His work on taxonomic systems in The Language of Taxonomy led to the development of the "Gregg Paradox".
During the summer of 1967, he led the Undergraduate Institute for Theoretical Biology sponsored by NASA. During his career, Gregg collaborated closely with British biologist Joseph Henry Woodger, the developer of the influential Axiomatic Method.In addition to his scientific work, Gregg was extremely passionate about archery and donated his collection of antique bows and other artifacts to the Smithsonian Museum.
Paul M. Gross was born in 1895. He received degrees from the City College of New York (B.S., 1916) and Columbia University (M.S., 1917 and Ph.D. 1919) in physical chemistry. He arrived at Trinity College in 1919, and began his tenure as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, teaching physical, organic, and fluorine chemistry. He led the Chemistry Department as Duke University underwent the transformation from regional college to research university. Gross served Duke University as an Assistant Professor of Chemistry (1919-1920), William H. Pegram Professor of Chemistry (1920-1965), Chair of the Chemistry Department (1921-1948), Dean of the Graduate School (1947-1952), Dean of the University (1952-1958), and Vice-President in the Educational Division (1949-1960). Gross was a proponent of scientific research and its value for education and society and held many seminars for science educators in North Carolina.
Gross directed Duke University's scientific research for both the U.S. Army and Navy during wartime. Naval Research on organic fluorine gases, compounds, and batteries was carried out by the Chemistry Department under contract with the Office of Naval Research. As part of the Army Scientific Advisory Panel, Gross advised top U.S. Army researchers on scientific matters. Gross was also involved in the Frangible Bullet Project, the largest military research project at Duke University. The frangible bullet, developed in 1942, was a plastic explosive that behaved like a bullet and enabled accurate training practices. The project earned Gross the President's Medal of Merit.
While a successful scientist, Gross is perhaps best known at Duke University as an administrator. Gross' administrative career at Duke University began in 1934 when he was named Chair of the University Research Council, a position he held until 1949. The Research Council helped to guide the University as it developed into a respected research institution. He also chaired the University Committee on Long Range Planning from 1959-1960. His opinions on administrative matters, along with his Vice President of Educational Division status, led to conflicts with President A. Hollis Edens around 1960, in what came to be known as the Gross-Edens Affair. The conflict mostly concerns the debate over whether Duke University should become a regional or national university, and to what degree the institution should be known for its devotion to research or teaching. Edens resigned from his position as University President, and Gross was removed from his administrative position as a result of the conflict.
In addition to his university positions, Paul Gross also served on numerous state, regional, and national boards relating to scientific research. In the late 1940s, he was a founder of the Oak Ridge Institute for Nuclear Studies (later Oak Ridge Associated Universities) and served as its President until 1949. President Harry S. Truman appointed Gross to the original National Science Foundation board in 1950, a position he held for 12 years. Gross held other administrative positions within the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the United States Health, Education, and Welfare Committee on Environmental Health, the Council of Southern Universities, the North Carolina Board of Science and Technology, Research Triangle Institute, Governor's Research Triangle Committee, and the North Carolina Atomic Energy Advisory Committee.
As an independent contractor, Gross was called upon to evaluate the composition of products including beer, cosmetics, film, and fire extinguishers. He was a sought-after speaker among his colleagues, giving many dedications, eulogies, lectures, panel discussions, testimonials, and dinner addresses during his career. When Gross retired from teaching at Duke University in 1965, the Gross Chemical Laboratory on Duke University's West Campus was named in his honor. Paul M. Gross died in 1986 at the age of 91.
Paul M. Gross was the son of Magnus and Ellen Sullivan Gross of New York. He married Gladys Cobb Peterson in 1918. They had two children: Paul M. Gross, Jr. and Beatrix Gross Ramey.
Norman Guttman was born October 17, 1920 in Minneapolis, Minnesota. He married Renate Pawel on February 6, 1948. He received his B. A. degree in 1942 from the University of Minnesota and his Ph.D. from Indiana University in 1951. He came to Duke soon after earning his Ph.D. and began teaching in the Dept. of Psychology. Dr. Guttman was Director of Graduate Studies in Psychology from 1963-1964 and 1965-1967. He was also active in curricular reform at Duke. His chief interests were learning stimulus generalization, conditioning, motivation, and the history of psychology. He died in April 1984.
Charles R. Hauser was a 40 year faculty member at Duke University. He came to Duke as an instructor in Chemistry in 1929. He was appointed to full professor in 1946 and was named a James B. Duke professor of Chemistry in 1961. Hauser was born in California (b. 1900) but reared and educated in Florida receiving his B.S. and M.S. from the University of Florida in 1923 and 1925 respectively. His Ph.D. was received from the University of Iowa in 1928.
Hauser was a member of the National Academy of Sciences, and was the author of more than 400 articles on original research appearing in publications such as the Journal of the American Chemical Society and the Journal of Organic Chemistry. He received numerous awards and citations such as the Certificate of Merit for his work on a government project during World War II on the synthesis of anti-malarials, the American Chemical Society's Florida Section Award as the year's (1957) "outstanding chemist of the South" the National American Chemical Society Award for Creative Work in Synthetic Organic Chemistry (1962), the Herty Medal (1962), and the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufactures Association Medal (1967). He died in 1970 at the age of 69.
Frederic Blackmar Mumford Hollyday was born in Easton Maryland in 1928. He received his B.A. from Washington and Lee University in 1948, and his M.A. and Ph.D. from Duke University in 1950 and 1955, respectively. He joined the faculty of the Duke History Department in 1956, and he specialized in 19th century German history. In 1968 and 1971, he served as Director of Undergraduate Studies in the History Department. Among his major publications include the books Bismarck's Rival: A Political Biography of General and Admiral Albrecht von Stosch (1960), Bismark: Great Lives Observed (1970), and the edited volume of E. Malcolm Carroll's The Western Powers and Soviet Russia, 1917-1922. He was promoted to Professor in 1971 and served in that capacity until his death in 1982.
Hoof 'n' Horn Student Musical Theater Company was formed in 1936 at Duke University. Its first annual production was "Say When," performed in Page Auditorium in May 1941. The organization's purpose is to provide the highest possible standard of amateur theater to the Duke University and Triangle Area communities, to serve as an educational vehicle to provide practical experience in all aspects of musical theater, and to be responsible for all necessary assets for the production of shows which it sponsors.
1948/1949 The position of Personnel Director first appeared in the University Bulletin. The appointee, Walter G. Cooper, reported to the Business Manager and Comptroller. The Personnel Department was given authority over all "employees of the University who are not directly connected in a professional capacity with its social or academic activities."
1969/1970 The Personnel Department had the following structure: Director, Wage and Salary, Personnel Records, Employment Office, Medical Center Personnel, Training and Development, Cost Reduction
1980-1982 The Human Resources division was created and structured as follows: Director (an Assistant Vice President), Benefits and Records, Employee Relations, Employee Services, Wage and Salary, Human Resources Development, Employment Office, Labor Relations
1997 Administration, Benefits Administration, Temporary Services, Employee Occupational Health Services, Learning/Training and Organizational Development, Rewards and Recognition [formerly Wage and Salary], Recruitment.
2000 The Human Resources division became headed by a Vice President
1948-1949 The position of Personnel Director first appeared in the University Bulletin. The appointee, Walter G. Cooper, reported to the Business Manager and Comptroller. The Personnel Department was given authority over all "employees of the University who are not directly connected in a professional capacity with its social or academic activities." 
1969-1970 The Personnel Department had the following structure: Director, Wage and Salary, Personnel Records, Employment Office, Medical Center Personnel, Training and Development, Cost Reduction
1980-1982 The Human Resources division was created and structured as follows: Director (an Assistant Vice President), Benefits and Records, Employee Relations, Employee Services, Wage and Salary, Human Resources Development, Employment Office, Labor Relations 
1997 Structure revised to include: Administration, Benefits Administration, Temporary Services, Employee Occupational Health Services, Learning/Training and Organizational Development [several name changes], Rewards and Recognition [formerly Wage and Salary], Recruitment.
2000 The Human Resources division became headed by a Vice President
The Interfraternity Council at Duke University, established in 1957, is the umbrella organization for Duke University chapters of national fraternities. The Interfraternity Council primarily interacts with the Council of Presidents (presidents of campus fraternities) to promote adherence to University policies and to create leadership opportunities for fraternities to serve the campus community. The Interfraternity Council is divided into legislative, executive and judicial branches.
The Legislative Board is called the Council of Presidents and includes the presidents of all member fraternities. The Council of Presidents convenes to vote on administrative matters of the Interfraternity Council.
The Executive Council generally facilitates policy creation and assembles committees to work on special events and community service projects. Over the years, these activities have consisted of Greek Week, Shoe and Slipper Weekend, Help Week, and many outdoor concerts. The Executive Council also handles record keeping, publications, and financial accounting.
The Judicial Board enforces the Interfraternity Council Penal Code, tries cases involving infractions by member fraternities, and levies appropriate punishment. Fraternities must maintain good standing with the Council by paying dues, providing periodic financial reports, and completing service projects. Some of the issues reported to the Judicial Board are noise and alcohol violations, hazing, pledging rules, and property damage to fraternity houses.
The Interfraternity Council generally supports fraternity presence at Duke University by employing outside contractors and advisory boards. The input from these sources has helped fraternities make policy decisions about going co-ed, closing a chapter, or updating their image. Since 1954, the Interfraternity Council has published many handbooks for students including: The Greek Way (1954-2001), Rushing Relations (1969-1970), and Open Relations (1961-1969).
Duke University's International Comparative Studies (ICS) is an undergraduate interdisciplinary program that bridges the humanities and social sciences.
taken from the Pratt School of Engineering development page http://www.pratt.duke.edu/development/major_gifts.php
The James B. Duke Society recognizes those individuals who have followed the example and generosity of Duke University's founder, James B. Duke, by continuing his vision through involvement and support, and by providing cumulative gifts exceeding $100,000 to all areas of Duke University.
To acknowledge membership in the James B. Duke Society, the University commissioned Tiffany and Company to create a limited edition porcelain box inspired by the original architect's drawings of the West Campus Union and dormitory buildings. Each member of the James B. Duke Society receives one of these "special" boxes and is invited to Duke's annual gala donor recognition weekend.
At the conclusion of 2006-2007 the James B. Duke Society numbered 3156 members.
George "Jelly" Leftwich, a native of Wilmington, NC, was born in 1905. He joined Duke University in 1926 as conductor of the Duke University Club Orchestra, where he remained until 1933. Leftwich is remembered best for having written the words and music to Duke's fight song, "The Blue and White." He ultimately turned over the song's rights to the university.
During his time as conductor, Leftwich elevated both the level of musicianship and number of participants in the music department. His orchestra regularly performed and traveled, while billed as "the South's Finest College Band." Leftwich was never known to have mastered an instrument himself, but was well regarded in his capacity as conductor.
Leftwich's time prior to Duke is unclear. While he is credited in newspapers with having attended the University of North Carolina before transferring to Duke in his sophomore year, there is no official record of him as a student at the university. Certain contents of his scrapbooks indicate that he led the Wilmington, NC Seashore Hotel Orchestra in the summer season and was a member of the Carolinians Orchestra in the time leading up to his acceptance of an offer from Duke.
After his time at Duke, Leftwich changed his name to Lee Dixon and pursued a career as a musician. However, he experienced little success and ultimately left the music business during World War II. Upon his music retirement, Leftwich went into the hotel industry and eventually became the manager of the "Downtown Club" in Richmond, Virginia.
Leftwich married his former vocalist Kay Keeyer, and they had two sons. He died in 1977 in Richmond, Virginia, and was buried in his hometown of Wilmington, NC.
The son of famed Methodist minister Rev. John Nelson Cole, John Nelson Cole, Jr. was born in 1895 and grew up in Rockingham, NC. He entered Trinity College in 1905 and was a member of the Alpha Tau Omega fraternity as well as the Glee Club. He was also friends with Angier B. Duke.
After graduating in 1909 with a degree in journalism, Cole went on to teach English at the Woodberry School in Orange, VA for a short time. From 1910 to 1912, he attended Columbia University's journalism program. He subsequently worked for the Baltimore Hotel, the N.Y. Edison Company, and as a reporter for the New York Evening Post. Later, he worked as advertising writer and salesman for the U.S. Printing and Lithograph Company. Eventually, he became founder and president of the Planographic Equipment Company, which manufactured printing presses and produced pictorial sections for large newspapers.
The Sigma Delta Chapter of Kappa Delta was charted at Duke University in 1912. Its charter members included Mary Gorham, Lucille Gorham, Katie Lee McKinnon, Estelle Flowers, and Catherine Thomas.
During 1915, meetings were held in the home of Mary White Cranford. The women wanted a chapter house on campus, but President Few opposed the idea. Sigma Delta continued to have monthly meetings off campus until 1916, when they were granted meeting space in the Woman's Building. In fall 1918, the women moved into a suite in Alspaugh Hall.
During the first year of their Kappa Delta affiliation, the Sigma Delta chapter attended a Halloween party, gave two rushing parties, and attended garden parties. Some other activities enjoyed by the Sigma Delta chapter were: a "Dream Ship Cruise" themed ball with fellow fraternity men, War Chest and YMCA philanthropy, slumber parties, and supporting Hungarian exchange students at Duke. Kappa Delta also participated in Greek Night and created a float for Joe College Weekend.
The Sigma Delta chapter lost its charter in 1967 but was re-chartered in 1976. From 1976 to 1981, the chapter was active on campus, but again lost its charter in 1990. The sorority was formerly governed by the Panhellenic Association at Duke University.
Born in Warsaw, Poland on July 27, 1903, Wladyslaw W. Kulski was a diplomat and educator who earned a Master of Law degree in 1925 from Warsaw Law School and a Doctor of Law in 1927 from Paris School of Law. In 1938, he married Antonina Reutt of Kislovodsk, Russia. They had no children. He was a member of the Polish diplomatic service from 1928-1945 and Minister Plenipotentiary, Polish Embassy, London from 1940-1945. Dr. Kulski served as Professor of Political Science at the University of Alabama from 1948-1951, at Syracuse University from 1951-1964, and at Duke University from 1964-1973. He authored several works, including Thus Spake Germany (1941) and The Soviet Regime (1954) and was editor of the Polish "White Book." Dr. Kulski died in Durham, NC on May 16, 1989.
Dr. Kulski began his diplomatic career as a member of the staff of the League of Nations service at the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs (1928-1933). In that position, he functioned as a legal and political officer, was a member of the Polish delegation to the Conference of the Reduction and Limitation of Armaments in Geneva (1932-1933), and was councilor and later Secretary of the Permanent Delegation of Poland to the League. From 1936-1940, he was head of the legal service at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In 1939, he was sent to London to negotiate the British-Polish Treaty of Mutual Assistance, which soon became the diplomatic basis for Britain's declaration of war on Nazi Germany. In 1940, he became Minister Plenipotentiary at the Polish Embassy in London and held that post until 1945 when he left the Polish service. He came to the U.S. in 1946 and became a naturalized citizen in 1953.
In 1964, he came to Duke University where he was named James B. Duke Professor of Political Science. He retired in 1973. During his academic career, Dr. Kulski continued to lecture to audiences in academia and government. He specialized in comparative government, in particular the Soviet government, international relations, and international law. He was awarded several foreign decorations and held both Fulbright and Guggenheim research awards.
William Thomas Laprade was born in Franklin County, Va. in 1883. As a young adult, he practiced speaking in his community's debating society and as a teacher in the Sunday School. Laprade received a bachelor's degree from Washington Christian College in Washington, D.C. (1906) and taught Latin and mathematics from 1906 to 1907. He was concurrently a teacher, graduate student at Johns Hopkins University, and minister of the Antioch Christian Church near Vienna, Va. Laprade received a doctorate in History from Johns Hopkins University in spring of 1909.
Later in 1909, Laprade joined the faculty of Trinity College (now Duke University), becoming Trinity's first teacher of British and European history. Laprade specialized in the history of 18th century Europe and occasionally preached sermons. Students testified that his most memorable and successful courses were intense seminars conducted in his home. Laprade was Chair of the History Department and Chair of the American Association of University Professors during the period after World War II during McCarthyism attacks on alleged communists in government. Laprade insisted on total freedom of inquiry for scholars.
Laprade was manager of the Trinity College bookstore (then known as the "Book Room") from 1912 to 1926. He spent time in England from 1926 to 1927, acquiring many important English books for the bookstore. The books ultimately became part of the library's collection of British materials. Laprade was the first editor of the Trinity College Press (1922-1926), director of the Duke University Press (1944-1951), and editor of the South Atlantic Quarterly (1944-1957).
Off campus, Laprade was a "Minute Man" speaker during World War I, and lectured on history and politics to secretaries enrolled in YMCA army training schools. He was also a charter member of the Durham Kiwanis Club, and rumored to have attended every meeting from 1920 to 1975. Laprade served the State of North Carolina as a member of the North Carolina Commission on Race Relations, President of the North Carolina State Literary and Historical Association, and executive board member of the North Carolina Department of Archives and History.
Laprade was a member of several professional and honorary societies, including Phi Beta Kappa and the Royal Historical Society of England. In April, 1975, Laprade was awarded an honorary degree of doctor of letters by Duke University on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the school. The North Carolina Historical Commission passed a resolution in 1975 honoring the life work of Laprade.
Laprade was an avid letter writer; his family letters reflect life in the southern United States during World War I, the Great Depression, and World War II. Laprade died in June 1975 at 91 years of age.
During the Spring 2015 and Spring 2016 semesters, students enrolled in a course titled LGBTQ History and Activism: Duke, Durham, and Beyond conducted oral history interviews with Duke alumni about their involvement in the LGBTQ movement before, during, and after their time at Duke.
Daniel A. Livingstone was born August 3, 1927 in Detroit, Michigan. He attended Dalhousie University in Nova Scotia, Canada, graduating with a Bachelor's of Science in 1948 and a Masters of Science in 1950. He then pursued a PhD at Yale University, finishing in 1953. He taught ecology, limnology, zoology, biology, and geology courses at Duke and was the James B. Duke Professor Emeritus of Biology. In 1989, he was awarded the G. Evelyn Hutchinson Award by the American Society of Limnology and Oceanography for his research in Africa and North America in the areas of limnology, paleolimnology, and paleoecology.
Livingstone's research interests were primarily in bioclimatology, limnology, and paleolimnology, but he also published work on a wide variety of subjects including zoology, paleontology, fish populations and zoogeography, coring technologies, and pollen analysis. He was also the inventor of a corer, named the Livingstone corer, used by many American palynologists and palaeolimnologists. He conducted extensive research in sub-Saharan Africa, including Cameroon, Kenya, Ghana, amd Tanzania, as well as in North America, particularly Nova Scotia. He was also awarded numerous grants from the National Science Foundation and other organizations, and corresponded with many professionals in the fields of biology, limnology, paleolimnology, ecology, climatology, and many other areas.
Daniel Livingstone married Dr. Pat Palmer, a botanist and professor, in 1989. He died March 6, 2016 in Raleigh, North Carolina.
Gloria Lois Bowen was born June 21, 1926. She attended Duke University in the Woman's College from 1944-1946, leaving after her marriage to John McCoy (alumnus of Duke and Duke Law, class of 1951). While at Duke, she was a member of the Alpha Phi sorority, attended games, events, and dances, and took classes in Music, French, Spanish, Zoology, Philosophy, and other topics.
Gloria and John McCoy had three children, Dana McCoy Anderson, John McCoy Jr., and Carol McCoy Townsend, as well as seven grandchildren. The couple lived in Daytona Beach, Florida and Black Mountain, North Carolina.
Angus McDougall was born in Oxford, England. He studied sculpture in Boston, Massachusetts during the 1920s, and later in Italy. Eventually he returned to England to study drawing and architecture, and where he enrolled in the Royal College of Art's Sculpture School. In 1938, he returned to the U.S. and served as a designer for Steuben Glass, Inc. and as advertising manager at Creative Age Press. He later moved to Durham, N.C., where he taught sculpture and made portrait heads on commission.
Me Too Monologues is a testimonial theatre production featuring monologues about race, ethnicity, culture, gender, sexuality, and identity markers. Started in 2009, the series has grown both in length of production at Duke, as well as beyond Duke's campus.
The Middlesworth Awards have been established to encourage and recognize excellence of research, analysis, and writing by Duke University students in the use of primary sources and rare materials held by the David M. Rubenstein Rare Book & Manuscript Library of Duke University. The awards are granted annually to the authors of the best undergraduate and graduate student papers based largely on materials from the David M. Rubenstein Rare Book & Manuscript Library. Funding for the awards has been provided by Chester P. Middlesworth (A.B., 1949) of Statesville, North Carolina.
Orphaned at an early age, Christine Mimms was raised by her mother's sister in Scotland County, North Carolina. After graduating from Gibson High School, she attended Meredith College where she was active in government and the debating society. She received her business training at Kings Business College in Raleigh. She moved to Durham in 1935 when she was hired as a secretary. Mimms served as secretary/executive assistant to six Duke Presidents, from President William Few to President Terry Sanford. She married S. C. Mimms in 1966 and was an active member of the Watts Street Baptist Church. She helped organize both the Durham Theater Guild and the Allied Arts and was a member of the arts society's original board of directors. She retired from Duke in 1977. Mimms died in 1990.
The Society of the 9019 was the first honor society at Trinity College. In February of 1890, John Spencer Bassett founded the Society of the 9019 and became its first president. Bassett's desire to arouse the intellectual and literary interests of students and to stimulate interest in the history of the South inspired him to create the 9019. The 9019 recognized the outstanding students of the college, encouraged its members to promote scholarship on campus and in the community, and fostered a "true college spirit." The origin of the name is a representation of a) the 90 percent average required for admittance and b) the number of original members. As a precursor to Phi Beta Kappa, the 9019 provided a unique opportunity for recognition and involvement in campus activities. Notable contributions include the creation of the South Atlantic Quarterly and supporting scholarly activities among North Carolina high schools via annual declamation contests. The 9019 continued operation throughout the transformation to Duke University, but competing fraternities and World War II brought an end to the organization.
Omicron Delta Kappa was founded at Washington and Lee University in 1914 as a campus leadership honor society. It soon expanded to other colleges and the Rho Circle chapter was established at Duke University in 1926. Omicron Delta Kappa admitted juniors and seniors as well as faculty members and honorary members both alumni and non-alumni on the basis of character, scholarship, distinguished achievement, and consecration to a great purpose. The five categories of campus life that were emphasized were scholarship, athletics, social and religious activities, publications, and the arts. Election to membership was considered one of the top honors that could be conferred at Duke University. The focus of the Rho Circle chapter was service to the university and community through the cooperation of all campus leaders. The first president of the Rho Circle chapter was Marshall I. Pickens, later head of the Duke Endowment.
The Rho Circle chapter maintained a good relationship with other national officers through correspondence of well-connected faculty and administrators, such as Frank C. Brown. Omicron Delta Kappa became inactive in the late 1960s or early 1970s as a result of general student opposition to the "elitism" of special leadership distinctions. There were also disputes within the national organization about scholarship standards and the fraternity's refusal to admit women. Although correspondence continued between William J. Griffith, the longtime secretary of the Duke University chapter, and the national officers, the society has never been reactivated at Duke.
The Duke University Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life serves as a liaison between university administration, and student fraternity, sorority, and selective living groups. The office advises, serves and supports 38 nationally affiliated chapters and the general Greek community. Following restructuring under Vice President for Student Affairs Larry Moneta in 2002, the Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life was supervised by the Dean of Students. In 2012 the Office was moved to Campus Life under Associate Vice President Zoila Airall. The Fraternity and Sorority was then a free standing Office for four years before moving in 2016 under the University Center for Activities and Events (UCAE), an umbrella center for student clubs and organizations located in Campus Life.
The Operations and Maintenance Department, responsible for care of buildings and grounds, truly began in 1948, but several departments and groups carried out its functions prior to that date. The administration's Business Division had some responsibility for operations; the University Comptroller, Frank C. Brown, was in charge of some aspects of construction in the 1920s; and the Duke Construction Company, formed by the Duke Endowment, also held responsibility for construction. Please see the series scope and content notes for more information on the people and organizations responsible for operations and maintenance.
An ordained Methodist minister, Robert Tappan Osborn was born in 1926 in Seattle, Washington. He received his A.B. from U.C.L.A. in 1946 and his B.D. from Garrett Biblical Institute in 1950, and spent a year at the University of Zurich, Switzerland. In 1954 he was awarded the Ph.D. from Drew University and joined the faculty of the Duke University Department of Religion that same year, where he taught until his retirement in 1997. He served a term as chair of that department. His research focused on the field of contemporary theology and Christian thought and his publications include the books Freedom in Modern Theology (1967) and The Barmen Declaration as a Paradigm for a Theology of the American Church (1991).
Osborn became active in the civil rights movement during the 1960s, advocating for Christian involvement in issues of racial justice. In January 1964, he and four other Duke faculty members (Professor William Wynn of the Psychology Department, Professor Fred Herzog and Professor Harmon Smith, both of Duke Divinity School, and Professor Peter Klopfer of the Zoology Department) joined a group including students and faculty from UNC and NCCU (white and African American) for a restaurant sit-in at Watts Grill in Chapel Hill. The professors were arrested on counts of trespassing; and the ensuing, drawn-out trials in Hillsborough ultimately led to a U.S. Supreme Court decision in the case of Klopfer vs. the State of North Carolina. In the final days of his term as governor, Terry Sanford (later to become president of Duke University) pardoned the professors.
The President's Advisory Committee on Resources was established by President H. Keith H. Brodie in the summer of 1989 following a recommendation of the Academic Council's Task Force on University Governance. Its predecessor was the University Committee on Resources (1988-1989). PACOR was a broad-based committee, chaired by a faculty member, which advised the President on the allocation of the University's financial, human and physical resources. Its twenty-one members consisted of five faculty, seven administrators, two students and seven ex officio non-voting members from the faculty, the administration and the student government. PACOR's chairs were Wes Magat of the Fuqua School of Business, Allen C. Kelley of the Economics Department, and Jim Cox of the Law School. John Wessels served as the staff director until 1995 when his position was eliminated. PACOR continued into President Keohane's administration but with different responsibilities and duties.
Harold T. Parker taught history at Duke University; he specialized in modern European history, European intellectual history and 19th century Europe. Parker was born near Cincinnati, Ohio on December 26, 1907. He received his undergraduate and doctoral degrees from University of Chicago in 1928 and 1934 respectively. He began teaching at Duke University in 1939 and retired in 1977, although he continued to teach after his retirement as a professor emeritus. His career at Duke was interrupted during World War II, when he served in the Pacific Theater. Parker was known for his teaching excellence according to one of his obituaries, and was awarded the Annual Distinguished Teaching Award by the National Association of Schools and Colleges of the United Methodist church in 1973. In addition to being a professor, Parker published several books including The Cult of Antiquity and the French Revolutionaries (1937) and Three Napoleonic Battles (1944). He was also a longstanding member of St. Philip's Episcopal Church in Durham, NC and published a history of the church in 1996. Harold T. Parker passed away in 2002.
The Duke Parliamentarians were founded in 1990 by four undergraduate students interested in the study and practice of parliamentary law. The founding members were Stanford M. Brown (President), Nikola R. Djuric (Secretary-Treasurer), Howard M. Mora, and Michael W. Ruiz; membership was eventually extended beyond graduation from Duke University. The group dedicated itself to the use of Robert's Rules of Order Newly Revised and included a lesson on parliamentary procedure at each official meeting. The Duke Parliamentarians were recognized as an offical student group by the Associated Students of Duke University (ASDU) and were primarily active from 1990-1994, publishing a Parliamentary Primer, a Handbook for Members, and other materials. In 1991 the group conferred honorary membership on Dr. Floyd Riddick, Parliamentarian-Emeritus of the United States Senate and a Duke University alum (class of 1932).
Virginia Parrott entered the Woman's College of Duke University in the fall of 1958 and graduated in 1962 with a degree in History. Parrott was a four year member of the Debate Council; a member of the PreMed Society her freshman and sophomore years; and a member of Tau Kappa Alpha.
Ransom Rathbone Patrick was born in 1906 in Santa Barbara, CA. He began as a graphic artist, apprenticing as a sign-painter and newspaper artist and eventually became a freelance artist in Seattle, San Francisco, Cleveland and New York. In 1944, he received is B.A. from the University of Washington, in 1947 and 1959, respectively, he received his M.F.A. and Ph.D. from Princeton University. He taught at Oberlin College, the University of British Columbia, the University of Minnesota and Western Reserve University before joining the Duke faculty as chair of the Aesthetics, Art and Music Department at Duke University in 1954. Specializing in American and modern art, Patrick also designed the ceremonial flag of Duke University. He died in April of 1971.
Addison "Add" Penfield was born in Meriden, Connecticut in 1918. He came to Duke University in Durham, North Carolina in 1936. During his four years as an undergraduate he became deeply involved with sports radio broadcasting on-campus, as the play-by-play announcer for Duke Football. He also worked off-campus with numerous other radio stations throughout North Carolina. He graduated in 1940 and began his storied career as a sports broadcaster working in Georgia, South Carolina, New York, and of course North Carolina. He also worked with the U.S. Army for a number of years. During Penfield's years as a sports broadcaster, writer, and Director of Sports Information at Duke he covered football, basketball, baseball, and golf. He knew such legendary Duke figures as Wallace Wade, Eddie Cameron, and Ted Mann. In the 1980's he completed a 553 page memoir about his career in sports broadcasting.
Phi Alpha Delta began as a "law student league" formed to fight an 1897 ruling made by the Supreme Court of Illinois, which affected law students' admission to the bar association. Following the resolution of this controversy, the league wanted to create a formal association and founded the Lambda Epsilon Fraternity in 1898. In 1902, the fraternity was reorganized and renamed Phi Alpha Delta in order to extend the benefits of the organization to a wider range of the legal profession. More information about the fraternity is available on their website here: http://www.padcommunity.org/about-phi-alpha-delta
The University Archives Photograph Collection was compiled by University Archives staff from a variety of sources for use in research and teaching.
The Physical Planning Department was responsible for arranging the construction and renovation of buildings, parking lots, and other spaces on the Duke University campus. In the 1960s and 1970s, it was headed by James A. Ward, Director of Physical Planning and University Architect, who was based in the Allen Building. The contracts in this collection bear the signatures of many Duke officials, including John M. Dozier, Business Manager; and G.C. Henricksen, Assistant Treasurer. Some of the contractors used by Duke include George W. Kane, William Muirhead, and Rea Construction Company.
In 1892, Trinity College relocated to Durham from Randolph County, North Carolina. In 1924, the Duke Endowment was established to help develop the school into a university. That same year, Trinity College was renamed Duke University and major construction on the university began. This construction project consisted of expanding what is currently East Campus and building West Campus. In 1932, West Campus opened, and the Duke University Chapel was completed marking the end of the construction project. Since then, the campuses of Duke University have undergone expansions and renovations that have led to many changes to the campus over time. Joseph Gaither Pratt was born in Winston-Salem, NC on August 31, 1910 to Joseph M. and Mattis H. Pratt. He completed his academic training at Duke University: A. B. in 1931, M. A. in 1933 and Ph.D. in 1936. He married his wife Nellie in 1936, and they had four children. Pratt joined the psychology department at Duke in 1937 as an instructor and a member of the staff of parapsychology where he served for nearly 30 years. He left Duke in 1963 to join the University of Virginia School of Medicine. He died in November 1979.
James Terry Sanford was born August 20, 1917 in Laurinburg, N.C., the son of Cecil L. and Elizabeth Martin Sanford. He received the A.B. degree (1939) and the JD degree (1946) from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. After serving in the military and FBI and while practicing law in Fayetteville, N.C., Sanford embarked on a political career. He served as North Carolina State Senator from 1953 to 1954 and as United States Senator from 1986 to 1992. In 1961 he was elected Governor of North Carolina and held the office through 1965.
In December 1969 Sanford was elected President of Duke University. He assumed the office in April 1970 and held the position through June 1985. His involvement at Duke continued as President Emeritus, from 1985 to 1998, and as Professor of Public Policy, from 1992 to 1998. Terry Sanford died on April 18, 1998 and is buried in the Crypt in the Chapel at Duke University.
Sanford married Margaret Rose Knight in 1942; they had two children, Elizabeth Knight and Terry, Jr.
Born in 1910, in Middlesbrough, England, Preston was educated at the University of Leeds (B.A., 1931; M.A., 1932; diploma in education, 1933) and Yale University (Ph.D, 1936). Preston was appointed lecturer at the University of Toronto (1936); Assistant Lecturer at the University College, Cardiff (1938-1940); a member of the Royal Air Force (1940-1945), Assistant Professor at the University of Toronto (1945), Professor of History in the Royal Military College of Canada (1948-1965), and the William K. Boyd Professor of History at Duke University (1965-1980). Preston was the director of the Canadian Studies Program at Duke University (1973-1979).
Preston was a prolific writer of scholarly articles and books. His works include:
Gorges of Plymouth Fort: A Life of Sir Ferdinando Gorges, Captain of Plymouth Fort, Governor of New England, and Lord of the Province of Maine, University of Toronto Press, 1953;
Kingston before the War of 1812, Champlain Society, 1958; 
Canada in World Affairs, 1959-61, Oxford University Press, 1965;
Canada and the Imperial Defense: A Study of the Origins of the British Commonwealth's Defense Organization, 1867-1919, Duke University Press, 1967.
Canada's RMC: A History of the Royal Military College, University of Toronto Press, 1969, new edition, 1984;
The Defence of the Undefended Border: Planning for War in North America, 1867-1939, McGill-Queen's University Press, 1977;
The Squat Pyramid: Canadian Studies in the United States, Center for International Studies, Duke University, 1980;
Perspectives in the History of Military Education and Professionalism, U.S. Air Force Academy, 1980
To Serve Canada: A History of the Royal Military College Since the Second World War, University of Ottawa Press (Ottawa, Canada), 1991.
Preston received a number of awards during his career. He received the Commonwealth Fund fellowship (1933-36); Nuffield summer travel award (1954); Duke University summer research scholarship (1957); City of Kingston Achievement Award (1957) for his television series and publications on the history of Kingston; Canada Council senior fellowship (1963-64); Social Science Research Council grant (1963); Canada Confederation Medal (1967); Guggenheim fellowship (1971-72); Donner Memorial Medal (1975) for promotion of Canadian studies in the United States; LL.D., Royal Military College of Canada (1977); and the Northern Telecom Gold Medal (1983) for the promotion of Canadian studies. Preston was named honorary professor of history, Royal Military College of Canada (1973).
Preston married Marjorie Ethel Fishwick in 1939, and had three children.
A largely self-taught educator, Methodist minister, and author of a series of English grammars, Brantley York (1805-1891) was asked by Methodist and Quaker farmers in rural Randolph County, N.C. to help provide education for their sons and daughters. At the site of the former Brown's Schoolhouse, he organized Union Institute Academy in 1838 and met with instant success, building two new buildings within a year-and-a-half. Though gratified at his accomplishment, he worked extremely hard raising money, and he began to go blind working late at night preparing recitations in subjects he had not adequately studied. In fact, he recorded in his diary a statement saying he considered his years at Union Institute to be "truly onerous." York, however, had found his life's work at Union Institute and though completely blind by age forty-eight, he lived to be eighty-six and founded half-a-dozen schools, lectured over 8,000 times, and taught more than 15,000 pupils. He served as Principal of Union Institute from 1838 to 1842.
Duke University (Durham, N.C.) was established in 1924 and evolved from the following institutions: Brown's Schoolhouse (Randolph Co., N.C.) 1838-1839; Union Institute (Randolph Co., N.C.) 1839-1851; Normal College (Randolph Co., N.C.) 1851-1859; Trinity College (Randolph Co., N.C.) 1859-1892 and (Durham, N.C.) 1892-1924.
taken from Undergraduate Publications Board homepage http://www.duke-union.org/About_UPB?
Since 1924, the Undergraduate Publications Board, commonly referred to as the Pub Board or UPB, has overseen the production of each of the university's recognized publications (with the exception of The Chronicle and Towerview). The Board also approves and supports emerging publications, known as Independents, runs the Blackburn Literary Festival, and administers the John Spencer Bassett Fund. Its continuing mission is to provide diverse forums in which students can engage their creative, intellectual, political and literary faculties.
Currently (2007), the UPB oversees the production of eleven publications: The Archive; Blind Spot; Carpe Noctem; The Chanticleer; Duke Blue; Erudito; Latent Image; Matter Magazine; Vertices; Passport Magazine; and Woman's Handbook. A sampling of other titles produced during the UPB's history include: Tobacco Road; Prometheus Black; Missing Link, Jabberwocky; and Teacher-Course Evaluation Book.
The Rainbow Triangle Oral History Project was originally conceived in 1996, by then-Director of Duke's Center for Lesbian, Gay & Bisexual Life (later the Center for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Life, now the Center for Sexual and Gender Diversity) John Howard, who suggested the project to Ian Lekus, then a Ph.D. candidate in the Department of History and a member of the Duke University Task Force for Lesbian, Gay, and Bisexual Matters.
The project was envisioned as a way to document the lives of LGBT people in the Triangle region in particular and central North Carolina in general, with the additional goals of exploring the idea of community identities and formation, breaking down barriers between the University and the local community, and documenting the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the Triangle.
Lekus became the Project Coordinator in 1996 and worked with a varying group of volunteers to acquire resources, conduct interviews, and ensure the preservation and access of the oral histories collected. From 1996 to late 1997, Lekus worked with others at Duke and elsewhere to develop forms and processes, conduct training workshops for interviewers, and establish how interviews would be used and preserved. Anne Valk, a visiting professor at Duke, and Patrick Toal and Parker Doig, graduate students at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, were other active project leaders at this time. In February 1998, the project was officially launched during a talk by author and activist Mab Segrest on the Duke campus, but the first group of interviews were conducted in late 1998 and early 1999.
Dr. Karen Krahulik became the Director of the Center for LGBT Life in 1999 and continued support for the project. In Fall 2000, Dr. Krahulik and Ian Lekus co-taught a class called American Communities: Gender, Sexuality, and Oral History, presented by the Women's Studies Program and the History Department, and sponsored by the Center for Documentary Studies. As part of this class, students conducted oral history interviews that focused on gender and sexuality in the lives of the narrators, and several of these interviews were conducted as part of the Rainbow Triangle project. Ian Lekus taught this class again in 2004, and additional interviews from this class became part of the project.
Narrators are generally residents of the Triangle region, many of them with a connection to Duke or Durham in particular. Narrators include both LGBT people and heterosexual people who have been involved in LGBT issues in some way. Interviewers include Duke staff or volunteers for the Center for LGBT Life, Duke students, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill students, and others.
Administrator in nonprofit sector focusing on rural economic development; graduate of Duke, class of 1992. Originally from North Carolina.
Staff member at Student Action with Farmworkers, originally from Colima, Mexico.
Owner of MEA Financial Services and graduate of Duke, class of 1978, originally from West Virginia. As of 2016, president of the Nicholas Sparks Foundation.
Executive Director of North Carolina Lambda Youth Network and graduate student of history at North Carolina Central University (NCCU), originally from Georgetown, Guyana.
Poet and library assistant, graduate of UNC-CH, class of 1975. Originally from Kannapolis, North Carolina.
AIDS activist and former newspaper reporter, editor, and executive. Originally from North Carolina. Died July 14, 2002.
English professor at Duke University, originally from Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
Owner of Cameron's shop in University Mall, Chapel Hill; graduate of UNC-CH, class of 1973. Originally from Wilmington, North Carolina.
Staff member at Women's Center of Duke University, graduate of Duke, class of 2001. Originally from Houston, Texas.
Lighthouse keeper and Executive Director of Outer Banks Conservationists; graduate of UNC-CH, class of 1958; graduate of NC State, 1984. As of 2016, watercolor and print artist. Originally from Montclair, New Jersey.
High school and elementary school teacher, originally from Arkansas.
Teacher, activist in LGBT community. Originally from western Massachusetts.
Roman Catholic nun (Sisters of Saint Joseph), teacher, active in AIDS ministry and ministry to gay community. Originally from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Died December 31, 2010.
No biographical information available.
Reverend and founding pastor of Imani Metropolitan Community Church (Imani MCC) in Durham; graduate of NC State, class of 1987. Originally from Henderson, North Carolina.
Activist for women's health issues, especially those of lesbians; member of klezmer band Freylach Time!. Originally from Long Beach, California.
Staff member in the Duke Graduate School Admissions Office, founding member of the LGB Task Force, and graduate of Duke, class of 1969. Originally from Danville, Virginia.
Member of the legal staff of the North Carolina General Assembly; graduate of UNC-Chapel Hill Law School, 1985. Originally from Tennessee.
Papercutting and calligraphy artist, originally from Denver, Colorado.
Member of the Board of Directors of the North Carolina Lesbian and Gay Health Project, based in Durham, North Carolina.
Historian and activist for social, economic, and environmental causes; the first openly gay elected official in North Carolina (Chapel Hill Town Council, 1987); UNC-CH graduate work in history 1969-1981. Originally from Franklin, New Jersey. Born 1941, died October 28, 2007.
Singer, songwriter, and musician and manager of a law firm. Originally from Florence, South Carolina.
Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering and former college athlete. Originally from St. Louis, Missouri.
Dancer and choreographer, activist and minister to people with HIV/AIDS.
Former director of the Freeman Center for Jewish Life and father of adopted son. Originally from southern California; resident of Durham at the time of the interview.
Unitarian Universalist minister based in Chapel Hill; single foster parent to 85 boys between 1985 and 1999. Originally from Massachusetts.
Owner of Francesca's Dessert Caffe in Durham, North Carolina. Originally from Lumberton, North Carolina.
Licensed Clinical Social Worker based in Durham, North Carolina.
No biographical information available.
Administrator in Duke Student Affairs. Originally from New Jersey.
Director in Sports Information at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Originally from the Chicago area.
Greensboro-based professional, active in the Imani Metropolitan Community Church of Durham. Originally from Trinidad.
Realtor and nurse based in Durham, North Carolina. Originally from Texas.
Youth Prevention Coordinator at the Durham Crisis Response Center at the time of interview.
Proprietor of the Cafe at the Regulator (Durham, North Carolina) at the time of interview.
No biographical information available.
Chaplain at Duke Hospital. Originally from Burlington, North Carolina.
Graduate of Duke (1990) who was starting point guard on the women's basketball team.
Theater director/producer; co-founder and editor of the journal Sinister Wisdom. Born 1922, died 2013.
Assistant Coordinator of the Sexual Assault Support Services (SASS) at Duke University.
Director of Equality North Carolina, and active in several North Carolina LGBT organizations. Originally from Raleigh, North Carolina.
Graduate of Duke, class of 2003. Active in field hockey while at Duke. Originally from Montreal.
Lawyer and former employee of Americans for a Fair Chance, and former director of the Orange County Human Rights and Relations Department.
Student Affairs employee at Duke University. Originally from Atlanta, Georgia.
Detective and firearms instructor with Duke Police; graduate of Duke (class of 1983), graduate of UNC-CH (MA, 1987); originally from Southern California.
No biographical information available.
Professor of women's studies at Duke University, graduate of Duke (M.Div, 1989, and PhD, 1993); originally from Syracuse, New York.
Licensed clinical social worker (LCSW), minister, and activist focusing on children and families, HIV/AIDS, LGBTQ community, people of color, and homelessness; graduate of Duke (M.Div 2005). Originally from Scotland Neck, North Carolina.
Psychologist and therapist, originally from Eastern North Carolina.
No biographical information available.
Student at UNC-Chapel Hill at time of interview (graduated 2001), originally from Greensboro, North Carolina. As of 2016, Organizing Director for Jobs With Justice.
Staff member in Duke University Libraries. Originally from Tuscaloosa, Alabama.
Scientist and professor at Duke University Medical Center, Cardiology Division, at time of interview. As of 2016, Director of Regenerative Medicine Research at the Texas Heart Institute.
Teacher and administrator in Durham Public Schools; graduate of UNC-Chapel Hill (class of 1970, MAT 1971, PhD 1990); originally from Durham, North Carolina. As of 2016, adjunct professor in Duke's Master of Arts in Teaching program.
Director of Young Adult and Campus Ministry for the Unitarian Universalist Association; graduate of Duke (PhD 1998); originally from Brooklyn, New York.
Mother of one and carpenter; graduate of Duke, class of 1976. Originally from Maryland.
Professor in School of Education at UNC-Chapel Hill, originally from Illinois.
Lecturer in Department of Computer Science at UNC-Chapel Hill.
Elementary school teacher and activist for LGBT issues; graduate of Duke, class of 1971. Originally from Kentucky.
As of 2016, the Learning Outreach Director at the Center for Documentary Studies at Duke.
No biographical information available.
The Religious Council was formed in 1956 to coordinate interdenominational religious activities affiliated with Duke University. In April of 1955, members of the Special Church Board Committee, a sub-committee of the Duke University Church, proposed to create a unified council with a widened sphere of operations. The new council would coordinate and serve as an advisory board to the various campus committees and organizations involved in religious activities. In 1956, to facilitate these goals, the Board of Duke University Church (established in 1938) and the Student Religious Council (formed in 1937) were merged to create the Religious Council. The Religious Council was a committee-based organization with community, faculty, and student representation. However, the Council emphasized student membership on the various committees. The Council also emphasized its interdenominational character, encouraging the participation of all faiths in religious activities.
After the opening of Duke's West Campus in 1930, the arrangement and administration of residential life at the University remained fairly static through the 1950s. Some fraternities had the same blocks of rooms for decades. Then, beginning with the work of the University Committee on Long-Range Planning (1958-1962), residential arrangements and administration came under close review. That process has continued. Groups involved in it have included the Undergraduate Faculty Council, its successor, the Undergraduate Faculty Council of Arts and Sciences (UFCAS), and its successor, the Arts and Sciences Council, the West Campus Community Council (WCCC), the Community Council of the Woman's College (CoCoWoCo), the Residential Life Committee, the Residential Policy Committee, and successor groups.
A group of Law School students formed the bipartisan Nixon Portrait Committee to raise funds for a portrait of President Richard Nixon, a 1937 graduate of the School. The Committee was chaired by Charles S. Mill, Jr., a student in the Duke Law School. The portrait was painted by Joseph Wallace King and was presented to the Law School at the 1969 Commencement ceremony. Since that time it has been stored in the Law School and the Art Museum. In March of 1998, there were plans to loan the portrait in turn to the Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives, the Nixon Library, and the National Portrait Gallery.
The University Committee on ROTC was formed in 1970 at the request of Duke President Terry Sanford. The Committee was established to review the status of the ROTC program at Duke, and to determine whether the program should be abolished, modified, or maintained. Some students and others had complained that ROTC did not fit into the curriculum at Duke, that its coursework did not allow students to think critically, and that Duke symbolically supported the war in Vietnam through its sponsorship of ROTC.
The members of the committee were Aubrey W. Naylor, Thomas G. Wilson, David Pace, Chip Rawlings, and A. Kenneth Pye. In May of 1971, the committee recommended that the ROTC program be continued, although modified, and offered a number of recommendations. ROTC is currently still in operation at Duke University.
Formed in 1986, the South Africa Policy Implementation Committee pursued the policies formulated by the Committee on Social Implications of Duke Stock and agreed to by the Board of Trustees. In 1985, University President Terry Sanford created the Committee on Social Implications of Duke Stock. The Committee was chaired by Law School professor Walter Dellinger, III, and composed of four students, graduate and undergraduate, six faculty members, two administrators, and two Trustees.
On May 3, 1986 the Board of Trustees, at the recommendation of the Committee on Social Implications of Duke Stock, voted to sell all holdings of companies doing business in South Africa if that nation's system of apartheid was not ended by January 1, 1987.
The Board's vote in support of divestment followed more than a year of campus activism focusing on apartheid and University investments in South Africa.
The Seashore Summer School developed out of an experimental summer school for teacher training that was started in 1919 by Holland Holton of Trinity College's Department of Education. The school, located at Oriental, North Carolina, initially operated as a branch of the college's summer school; another branch of the college's summer session was located at Lake Junaluska, NC. Both braches became distinct corporations, the one in Oriental receiving its charter on February 5, 1924. William Preston Few, President of Trinity College was ex-officio the chairman of its board, and Taylor B. Attmore, Superintendent of Schools of Pamlico County, NC, its secretary, and later its director. As specified in the charter, it remained "affiliated with" Trinity and, later, Duke, and its offerings were included in the course catalogs of the college and university. The school offered courses in education, history, music, and social and physical sciences. Courses had to be approved by North Carolina's Superintendent of Public Instruction. Due probably to financial difficulties questions about its future began to come up late in 1927, and it appears to have ceased operations in 1928.
The Southeastern Institute of Medieval and Renaissance Studies was a cooperative scholarly institute established in 1963 under the auspices of the Duke University-University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Cooperative Program in the Humanities. During the summers, the institute's members presented five-week seminars in a classroom setting. The location of the institutes alternated between the campuses of Duke University and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. They were coordinated by a joint committee of faculty members from each university. These institutes drew scholars from colleges and universities throughout the United States and provided a forum for intense study and teaching. Beginning in 1968, the joint committee initiated a fund-raising effort for continuation of the institutes.
In 1972, the National Endowment for the Humanities approved an additional funding request to support the institutes for the summers of 1974-1976 based on the stipulation that by 1977 the institutes would be funded entirely by the two sponsoring campuses.
While summer institutes were held through the summer of 1979, the joint committee was not able to secure a commitment of permanent funding from either Duke or UNC-Chapel Hill. Plans for the 1980 Institute were canceled due to the lack of funding and the committee began a new search for continuing support. The Southeastern Institute of Medieval and Renaissance Studies has not been active since 1980.
Many scholars and coordinators of the Southeastern Institute of Medieval and Renaissance Studies were also affiliated with the Southeastern Renaissance Conference, an annual conference established cooperatively by Duke University and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1943. Renaissance studies continue at Duke University at the Center for Medieval and Renaissance Studies, an interdisciplinary, degree-granting program.
SHARE (Student Housing for Academic and Residential Experimentation) was founded in 1970 as an academically elite experimental living group of 54 men and women. The integrated residence, then known as the Experimental College, was part of Duke's "New Curriculum". The "New Curriculum" recommendations of 1969 had suggested various changes in living arrangements for students on campus, including the elimination of freshmen dormitories and the establishment of a co-educational dormitory.
SHARE generally included students who were creative and possessed special talents or interests. SHARE applicants also had to demonstrate a clear sense of academic direction, and show interest in helping develop programs of the Experimental College within the first year. Students enrolled in Program II, an interdisciplinary study program, were given preference to live in the SHARE house.
The first director, overseeing the academic progress of residents, was English professor John Clum. Clum worked closely with the administration of Duke University to blend SHARE's social and academic components into a sustainable living environment. SHARE was first located in the Faculty Apartments (now Wilson House) on Duke University's East Campus. The apartment-type layout of the building allowed for men and women to live closely together while preserving privacy. SHARE participants lived in Wilson House until 1982, then in Alspaugh House from 1983 to 1984. In 1984, SHARE moved again to Epworth Inn, where it would remain until 1997. In 1997, SHARE was moved to Wilson House.
SHARE programming consisted of a variety of seminars, credit courses, meetings, film festivals, and lectures. Events included a "Use Your Appendages" Party, Anime Fest, Epworth Prom (Oil My Lizard), The Epworth Retreat, and "Twilight", a rave. Two of the most notable activities were SHARE hours and Pedagogo. SHARE hours gave members of the dorm an opportunity to tell others about their interest and experiences. Pedagogo was a series of events where members of the Duke University faculty were invited to Epworth to speak informally about issues in research and academics.
In 1995, SHARE became the first living group on campus to include members from all four undergraduate years. SHARE persisted as an alternative to conventional Duke residential life. When cited for low membership in 1997, SHARE was relocated from Epworth House to the third floor in Wilson House. As of 2003, SHARE is active at Duke University.
John D. "Bub" Shaw, a native of Meriden, Connecticut, was a 1932 graduate of Duke University. He played three seasons of varsity basketball and was named captain his senior year. In addition, he won honorable mention on the All-Southern College team during his last two seasons and was rated by some experts as one of the five best guards in the South. After graduating Shaw returned to Meriden where he taught U.S. history, coached the school's baseball team, and became assistant basketball coach. Shaw passed away in Meriden on January 9, 2006.
Melvin G. Shimm was born January 30, 1926 to Joseph and Sadie Shimm in New York City. He served in the Army during World War 2, then graduated from Columbia University in 1947. He then graduated from Yale Law School in 1950 before practicing law in New York City and Washington, D.C. He became a professor of law at the University of Chicago in 1952 before coming to Duke University in 1953. He was a member of the faculty of the Duke Law School until his retirement in 1996, and he served as the Associate Dean of the Law School from 1978-1983. He served as the editor of Law and Contemporary Problems, as faculty editor of the Duke Law Journal, and edited the Journal of Legal Education, as well as non-Duke publications such as the Journal of Business Law and Business Law Review. He was also the Director of the Duke Summer Institute in Transnational Law from 1986-1992. He won the Mordecai Society Award in 1960, the Duke Law School A. Kenneth Pye award in 1999, and the Duke University Award for Merit in 1996. In 2000, an endowed professorship in the Duke Law School was named for him.
Mel Shimm married Cynia Brown (Dr. Cynia B. Shimm), a psychologist who also taught Psychology for Lawyers with Mel Shimm at Duke Law School. The couple had two sons, David and Jonathan. Mel Shimm died on September 17, 2005.
Sidney D. Markman was born October 10, 1911 in New York, the son of Samuel Markman and Eva Bodie. He earned his A. B. in 1934 from Union College in Schenectady, NY and his M. A. and Ph.D. from Columbia University in 1936 and 1941 respectively. From 1941-1945, he worked as Professor of Art History and Archaeology at the National University of Panama. From 1945-1947, Dr. Markman undertook independent research in Guatemala, studying the fields of Pre-Columbian art and archaeology and Hispano-American art. In 1947, Dr. Markman began teaching at Duke University as Associate Professor of Art History and Archaeology and was appointed to full professor in 1965. He retired in 1981 and is Professor Emeritus of Art History and Archaeology in 1981.
Founded in 1886, Sigma Xi, The Scientific Research Society, is a non-profit membership society of nearly 75,000 scientists and engineers. Sigma Xi is headquartered in Research Triangle Park, N.C. and has more than 500 chapters at universities and colleges, government laboratories and industry research centers. In addition to publishing American Scientist, Sigma Xi awards grants annually to promising young researchers, holds forums on critical issues of science and society, and sponsors a variety of programs supporting honor in science and engineering, science education, science policy, and the public understanding of science.
The idea for a Duke University chapter of Sigma Xi was conceived during spring 1929, when a number of people interested in scientific research across departments began to meet on campus. They contacted Sigma Xi's national secretary regarding proper organization of a chapter and then held a general interest meeting was held in New Science Hall on Duke's East Campus in 1929. With fourteen members, the Sigma Xi Club of Duke University organized as a club and elected officers. As the petition for full membership to the national society continued, the members of the club were called on to present the history of the University and summaries of their own research. Their completed formal petition was accepted in June, 1932 and the charter granted in December 1932. Installation took place March 23, 1933. Some early members who petitioned for the charter were: Ruth Margery Addams, Lucius Aurelius Bigelow, Bert Cunningham, Wilburt Cornell Davison, Joseph Banks Rhine, and Frederick Adolphus Wolf.
The Duke University chapter of Sigma Xi holds meetings about six times per year. Initiations are held annually and feature a keynote address from a professional in the sciences. Election to Sigma Xi is arranged through a campus department representative, with members coming from all departments in social, physical, and medical sciences. New members are elected to Sigma Xi as associates or full members, depending on their research contributions. New members must have demonstrated abilities in conducting research and a potential for leadership in their field.
The Duke University chapter offers grants to students and professionals in the community. Smaller grants have been awarded to science teachers in North Carolina, while Duke University students have received awards for travel, field work, and conferences.
Edward Christian Simmons was born in Pittsburgh, PA in 1909. He received his Ph.D. from Ohio State University in 1936, and subsequently taught at Ohio State, Wayne State and the University of Michigan. Simmons joined the U.S. Navy Reserves in 1943 and served as an aerial navigator in the Caribbean until 1946. He joined the Duke faculty in 1947, where he taught Economics specializing in monetary-fiscal policy. He died in 2001.
Robert Sidney Smith (1904-1969) was a white American academic economist who was born in Waterbury, Connecticut. He received a AB and AM degrees from Amherst College and a PhD from Duke University in 1932. He served as a professor of economics from 1932 until his death in 1969, and he was named the James B. Duke Professor of Economics in 1964. His research focused on Latin American economic history and the history of Hispanic economic thought.
The Dept. of Sociology at Duke was established in 1930 by Charles Abram Ellwood (1873-1946) and remains an active department to this day offering degrees to both undergraduates and graduate students. This department seeks to educate students on the scientific study of society, including patterns of social relationships, social interaction, and culture. At Duke the department was known as the Dept. of Sociology and Anthropology until 1972 when the two fields split into separate departments.
In early August 1981, Duke University President Terry Sanford told Duke faculty that he had opened negotiations to house the Presidential Library of Richard Nixon – a Duke Law School alumnus – on the Duke campus. In response, Duke's Academic Council, which represented faculty interests, formed two major committees to discuss how the decision was made and to propose the direction of future negotiations regarding the Nixon Library: the Subcommittee on Governance and the Subcommittee on Library Relations.
Philip Stewart, then a professor in the Department of Romance Studies, served on the Academic Council's Subcommittee on Library Relations, charged on September 17, 1981, to answer the question: "Can a Nixon Presidential Library be developed at Duke that does not compromise the integrity of Duke University?" The subcommittee examined several areas of Duke's intersection with the proposed library, including use of land, the library's potential scholarly value, and whether the library would have a museum component. The Library Subcommittee submitted its report to the Academic Council on October 21, 1981, with recommendations on conditions to be met in order for negotiations to proceed.
Philip Stewart was born May 21, 1940. He received his Ph.D. from Yale University in 1967, and came to teach at Duke in 1972. Stewart's books include Imitation and Illusion in the French Memoir-Novel, 1700-1750 (1969), Engraven Desire: Eros, Image, and Text in the French Eighteenth Century (1992), and Editer Rousseau: Enjeux d'un Corpus, 1750-2012 (2012). He has also produced and edited a number of translations and critical editions in the field of French literature. Stewart is a former president of the American Association of Teachers of French and was selected for membership in the Ordre des Palmes Académiques, a French society that honors educators in French language and culture. As of August 2016, he is Benjamin E. Powell Professor Emeritus of Romance Studies at Duke University.
The mission of the Division of Student Affairs is to promote and enrich students' education through teaching, mentoring, advising, and counseling by way of on-going direct contact with students in their every day lives. The division was created in the summer of 1979 and was placed in under the supervision of William J. Griffiths, Vice President for Student Affairs. Griffith retired in 1991 and was succeeded by Janet S. Dickerson. Jim Clack became interim Vice President for Student Affairs when Janet Dickerson left in July of 2000 for Princeton University. The current (2011) Vice President of Student Affairs, Larry Moneta, accepted the position in 2001.
Student Affairs is comprised of a multitude of departments, all of which work in tandem to support and enrich students' educational experiences during their time at Duke University. These departments include: Campus Life; Career Center; Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS); Dean of Students Office; Residence Life and Housing Services; Student Health Center; and Resource Administration.
Students for Choice is a student organization dedicated to educating the Duke community about the status of reproductive rights nationally and locally and about available related resources, and to working to protect and uphold the freedom of choice.
The origin of the Trinity College (Durham, N.C.) Athletic Association is unclear. It is likely that it was established soon after Trinity joined the Southern Intercollegiate Athletic Association during the 1902-1903 academic year, as did other similar institutions. What is known is that in 1907, the Board of Trustees approved the formation of the Athletic Council, which served as the governing body of athletics on-campus. Between the two, athletic events/games were organized. The Athletic Association is probably the predecessor to the current Dept. of Athletics.
Richard Lovejoy Tuthill was Professor of Economic Geography from 1953-1980, when he retired as Professor Emeritus. Additionally, he was appointed the first University Registrar in 1953 by President A. Hollis Edens, a post he served until 1969. He was a Fellow of the American Geographical Society of New York and one of the founding members of North Carolina Geographical Society.
The Duke University Undergraduate Faculty Council of Arts and Sciences (UFCAS), established in 1971, guided undergraduate education in arts and sciences, adopted academic regulations and admissions policies, advised on financial aid and recognized academic achievement. It succeeded the Undergraduate Faculty Council after the body no longer included representatives from the engineering and nursing schools. Council membership consisted of the president, provost, dean of the undergraduate college, and elected members of the faculties of the humanities, natural sciences, and social sciences. The dean presided at meetings, while a member of the faculty was elected chair of the Executive Committee.
Most of Council's work was done through its standing and ad hoc committees, which included: Curriculum, Courses of Instruction, Honors, Study Abroad, Program II, Academic Standards, Advising, Undergraduate Admissions and Financial Aid, Residential Life, Freshman Year, Advanced Placement, Athletics and Recreation, Health Science Education, and Non-western Studies. In 1991, UFCAS voted to disband and reorganize as the Arts and Sciences Council.
Undergraduate Faculty Council began in 1952, as a result of a re-organization of the Duke University Faculty. The Undergraduate Faculty Council (UFC) was responsible for the governance of undergraduate education, a task that the Faculty Council previously had undertaken. The UFC included representatives from the Engineering and Nursing schools. The Dean of Trinity College served as chair. The UFC first met on November 13, 1952. The Undergraduate Faculty Council of Arts and Sciences succeeded the UFC in October 1971, when undergraduate education in engineering and nursing formed separate governing bodies.
Standing Committees of the Undergraduate Faculty Council included Undergraduate Instruction (which absorbed the Curriculum Committee and the Committee on Courses of Instruction between 1964-1965), Honors, Program II, the Faculty Advisory System, Residential Life, Study Abroad, Undergraduate Admissions, and Financial Aid. Ad hoc committees included Academic Standards, Committee on Committees, and the Committee on the Organization and Functions of the UFC. The creation of a report called "Varieties of Learning Experience," or the Krueger Report (1968), represents one of the major accomplishments of the Undergraduate Faculty Council. The Krueger Report led to major changes in the undergraduate course of study known as the "new curriculum."
The late 1960s was a time of rapid change at American colleges and universities, as most experienced a surge of politicization by student activists; at Duke, this was most clearly exemplified in the Allen Building takeover of February 13, 1969. In response both to this local event and to national trends in higher education, the Faculty Committee on Student Concerns, the Executive Committee of the Academic Council, and the Student-Faculty-Administrative Council (SFAC) recommended the creation of a Commission on University Governance. In April 1969 Chancellor pro tem Barnes Woodhall appointed this committee, with the hopes that future demonstrations similar to the Allen Building takeover might be avoided if effective official opportunities for student participation in university governance could be established. The Commission on University Governance was therefore charged with the task of studying changes in university organization nationwide, focusing particularly on student participation in governance, and making recommendations for Duke accordingly.
Members of the Commission eventually agreed that this purpose was best accomplished by dividing university governance into three categories: departmental governance, the central university administration, and the Board of Trustees. The latter body was already the subject of a study by a Board of Trustees Special Committee headed by Brantley Watson, and the Commission coordinated its efforts with the Watson Committee. The Commission on University Governance also worked simultaneously and cooperatively with the Chancellor's Advisory Committee, "The Committee of Twelve," which replaced the SFAC as the forum for airing Duke community grievances and which was meant to advise the administration concerning potentially volatile campus issues. The Commission on University Governance met 34 times between October 27, 1969 and May 17, 1970, at which time it adjourned for the school year and was never reactivated.
Aleksandar Sedmak Vesić was a Yugoslav-American geotechnical engineer and a major figure in the history of the Duke University Pratt Engineering School. Vesić specialized in soil mechanics, the application of engineering principles to construction materials, behavior of soils on the ocean floor, and the use of explosives in excavation projects.
Vesić studied at the University of Belgrade and received his doctorate in civil engineering. He worked at the Geotechnical Institute in Ghent, Belgium before moving to the United States in 1956. He began teaching in 1958 at the Georgia Institute of Technology. In 1963, he became a professor at Duke University, where he remained until his death in 1982. He was named Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering in 1974 and served as such until his death. In his honor, and in recognition for his contributions to the Engineering School, the position of department head of civil engineering bears his name, and the math, science, and technical library was renamed the Vesić Library in 1982, shortly after his death. This library carried his name until it closed in 2008.
Clement Vollmer was born in 1889 and grew up in Brooklyn, New York. He received his A.B. degree at Heidelberg University in Ohio in 1909 and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Pennsylvania in 1913 and 1915, respectively. He taught at the University of Pennsylvania for 10 years and at Cornell University for one year before joining the German Languages and Literature Department at Duke University in 1926, where he remained until his retirement in 1956. In 1918, he published The American Novel in Germany. Professor Vollmer served as chair of the department during the 1950s, as president of the South Atlantic Modern Language Association, and was a member of numerous academic societies. He also served as government interpreter in World War I and also as army and FBI consultant in World War II. Professor Vollmer died in 1972.
The Vice President for Business and Finance was the chief fiscal officer of the university, and reported to the President. The position was established in 1962, and was superseded in 1985 by the position of Executive (or Senior) Vice President. The officer was responsible for fiscal planning, preparation of the budget, and supervision of the University's non-academic programs. Ordinarily, the Vice President for Business and Finance was responsible for signing formal requests for grants and contracts submitted to government agencies and foundations, and had custody of contracts, deeds agreements, and other documents relating to the University's non-academic operations.
The Vice President for Business and Finance was responsible for Duke's entire Business and Finance Division; at various times in division history the positions of Business Manager, Treasurer, Controller, University Architect, and Vice President for Administration and Health Affairs reported to the Vice President for Business and Finance. The Vice President for Business and Finance was also responsible for such departments as Physical Plant, Personnel, Business Auxiliaries (including Dining Halls, Stores, and Housing divisions), Material Support, Internal Audit, Data Processing, Public Safety, and Accounting, among others.
Occupants of the position were Gerhard C. Henricksen, 1962-1966, and Charles B. Huestis, 1966-1985.
Gerhard Henricksen (1907-1994) came to Duke in 1936 as an internal auditor. He was promoted to Assistant Comptroller and Assistant Business Manager in 1948, Comptroller and Assistant Treasurer in 1956, Comptroller and Business Manager in 1958, and Assistant to the President for Business and Finance in 1961. In 1962, Henricksen was appointed to fill the newly created position of Vice President for Business and Finance, a position he held until his promotion to Vice President and Treasurer of the university in 1966.
Henricksen was succeeded as Vice President of Business and Finance by Charles B. Huestis (1920-), who came to Duke from Hughes Aircraft Company in 1966. Huestis served as the Vice President for Business and Finance for the next 19 years, retiring in 1985. In addition to his professional duties at Duke, Huestis also served as a director of the Durham Investment Company and Research Triangle Foundation, was an active Sierra Club member and mountain climbing enthusiast (including participating in the 1963 American Mt. Everest Expedition), served on numerous university committees, and was a member of "The Troika" which guided the university during the period between presidents in 1969. Huestis was succeeded as Senior Vice President by Eugene McDonald.
Eula Wake was a 1929 graduate of the Woman's College at Duke University.
Calvin Ward was born in 1928 in Yancey, TX. He earned his B.A., M.A. and Ph.D. at the University of Texas and began teaching in Duke's Zoology Department in 1952, where he specialized in genetics. In 1957, he received a grant from the U.S. Public Health Service to study genetic damage from radiation.
Warwick House was a non-selective living group for undergraduate men on Duke University's West Campus. The house contained a total of 30 rooms and was part of the Few Federation during the late 1970s. The Few Federation was a unifying group of several men's and women's independent houses and men's selective upperclass houses. As an independent living group, Warwick House was at times governed by the Association of Independent Houses, Office of Student Affairs, and the Office of Housing Management.
Richard Lyness Watson, Jr. was born December 25, 1914 in Mount Hermon, Mass. He attended Mount Hermon Preparatory School and graduated 1931. He studied economics and history at Yale University, receiving his B.A. in 1935, and his Ph.D. in 1939. Immediately after attaining his doctorate he moved to Durham and began teaching at Duke University. He was drafted into the Army in 1941 and commissioned in May 1943. He first served at the Coast Artillery School until appointed to the Army Air Force Historical Office. While at this post he served as chief of the Southwest Pacific Branch and was responsible for selecting documents on and writing histories pertaining to the Pacific theatre of operations during the War. His work was ultimately included in the seven volume series, The Army Air Forces in World War II, edited by Wesley Frank Craven and James Lea Cate.
During his forty-five year tenure at Duke, Watson served as one of the university's leading "citizens." He not only served in positions of leadership at the departmental level, but at the university level as well. Duke recognized his citizenship in 1988 when they awarded him the Duke University Medal for Distinguished Meritorious Service. While trained to specialize in early 19th century American history, Watson filled a needed role in the Department of History by shifting his research and teaching focus to early twentieth-century American history. His particular interests lay in the Progressive, Depression, and New Deal Eras. He chaired the department from 1960-1967 and stood in as Acting Chair in 1970-1971 and 1980. He took a lead in the burgeoning development of Black Studies, teaching several summer workshops for college professors on the materials of black history.
Watson led, at numerous points in his career, the faculty's most important representative bodies. He was vice chair of the University Council from 1961-1962; Chairman of the Academic Council from 1964-1966, as well as 1975-1977; and vice chair of the Academic Council from 1973-1974. He was the first person to hold the position of Faculty Secretary of the Academic Council, a position created in 1984. In addition, he was a member of the board of the Duke University Press from 1973-1982, and was associate editor of the South Atlantic Quarterly from 1974-1987. Watson also played a central role in the faculty movement to bar the Nixon presidential library from locating at Duke.
Watson answered the university administration's call to service. This is evidenced in the numerous committees, advisory councils, and task forces to which he was appointed. He played a significant role in helping define and implement university policies during student unrest of the late 1960s. As chair of the Committee on Judicial Procedures he helped put into place judicial procedures and policies to deal with the pickets and protests regulations. He also served on the Faculty Committee on Student Concerns which helped develop policies in response to the takeover of the Allen Building in 1969 and his work on the Student-Faculty-Administration Committee addressed drug policies, military recruitment on campus, and the pickets policy.
Watson served as President of the Southern Historical Association (1976-77) and of the Historical Society of North Carolina (1972-73); he was also chair of the Organization of American Historians' Frederick Jackson Turner Prize Committee from 1964-68. In addition, he sat on the board of editors of both the Mississippi Valley Historical Review (1958-60) and the Journal of Southern History (1968-70). He was a member of the Board of Trustees of St. Augustine's College from 1965-1971.
His activity in the Durham community was recognized by the Duke University Campus Ministry, who in 1992 awarded him its Humanitarian Service Award. Watson aided in the establishment of the St. Philip's Community Kitchen and the Durham Urban Ministry Center. He was also a familiar face in community theater, as a long-time member of Durham Savoyards, a group that presents annual performances of Gilbert and Sullivan.
In the midst of his teaching and academic service, Watson continued to conduct and publish scholarly research. He won the R.D.W. Connor Award for the best article to appear in the North Carolina Historical Review in both 1960 and 1965. He contributed greatly to the teaching of history in the secondary schools by his editorship, along with William Cartwright, of Interpreting and Teaching American History (196?) and its revised edition, Reinterpretation of American History and Culture. Other books he authored or edited include, Bishop Cannon's Own Story, the United States in the Contemporary World, 1945-62, and The Development of National Power: The United States 1900-1919.
Upon retirement in 1984, Watson continued his relationship with Duke. He was active in the university's FOCUS program, as well as hosting Japanese students from Hosei University each year.
Richard L. Watson, Jr. died on September 22, 2000.
The University Archives Web Archives Collection was compiled by University Archives staff beginning in 2010. The collection was built using the Internet Archive's Archive-It service for capturing and preserving web-based digital content.
Morris Weisfeld received his B.S. from Brooklyn College in 1949, his M.A. and Ph.D. from Yale University in 1951 and 1954, respectively. He taught mathematics at the University of Chicago, the University of Southern California, University of California at Berkeley and Harvey Mudd College before joining the Duke faculty in 1967 where he taught sophomore calculus and applied mathematical analysis. His research focused on the structure theory of rings and computational mathematics. He served as the managing editor of the Duke Mathematical Journal during the early 1970s.
1910 Born 2 May, Bellingham, Washington
1930-1936 Student, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan; B.A., Speech, 1934; M.A., Speech, 1936
1936 Married Carol Van Sickle
1936-1942 Assistant Professor of Speech, Oklahoma State University
1942-1946 Active Duty, U.S. Navy, as Lieutenant
1946-1947 Director of Radio, Wayne State University
1947-1976 Associate Professor of English, Duke University
1948 Published "In the Realm of Radio", in Southern Speech Journal
1952-1976 Regional Governor, Delta Sigma Rho Tau Kappa Alpha (forensic honorary), reelected 1976
1953 Graduate study in Speech and Psychology, University of Florida
1957 Summer, Guest Professor of Speech, Wake Forest University
1960 President, Southern Speech Association
1960-1967 Temporary Action Duty, U.S. Navy, as Lieutenant Commander; Head of English Dept., U.S. Naval Preparatory School, Naval Enlisted Scientific Education Program
1961 Published "Academic Status Seekers", in Southern Speech Journal
1963 Published "Debate 1984", in The Speaker
1967 Director Producer for Durham Savoyards Ltd. (Gilbert and Sullivan Shows): Iolanthe (1967); Gondoliers (1974)
1976 April: Debate Team wins National Championship
1976 Distinguished Service Award of Delta Sigma Rho Tau Kappa Alpha
1976 Died 12 October, Duke University
Wetherby was active in many professional organizations during his career, including the Speech Association of America, Educational Theatre Association (Honorary Life Member), Southern Speech Association, Delta Sigma Rho Tau Kappa Alpha, Sigma Alpha Eta (Speech and Hearing Honorary), American Forensic Association, North Carolina Speech Association (President), and Association of Teachers of English to Speakers of Other Languages.
The Duke University Woman's College opened in the fall of 1930 as part of the expansion of Trinity College into Duke University. In 1924 James B. Duke established the Duke Endowment and gave funds to transform a small liberal arts college into a major university. From 1925 to 1927 the existing Trinity Campus (now Duke's East Campus) was rebuilt and transformed to become a residential campus for undergraduate women. From 1928 to 1930 Duke's new gothic West Campus and residential campus for undergraduate male students was constructed and known as Trinity College for Men. In 1972, the Men's and Women's colleges were merged to form Trinity College of Arts and Sciences.
In the Fall of 2002, the Woman's College marked the 30th anniversary of its merger with the Trinity College for Men with a reunion. Carolyn Murray Happer, Class of 1960, curated an exhibition on the history of Woman's College and decided to start an oral history interview project with alumnae for use in a proposed history of Woman's College. Barnes Woodhall served as the Special Assistant to the President and then Chancellor pro tem from 1969-1970. Born January 22, 1905 in Rockport, ME, he was educated at Williams College (A.B., 1926) and Johns Hopkins University (M.D., 1930) and became a neurosurgeon. He held several positions at Duke University including appointments as Dean of the School of Medicine and Vice Provost of Medical Affairs. He died in 1985.
Professor of anthropology, sociology, and social work. Founded StoriesWork, a non-profit organization in Durham, N.C., advocating Therapeutic Storytelling, or the use of folk story analysis for empowering abused women. The organization offers training to domestic violence staff/volunteers, the medical/psychiatric profession; the legal profession and private practitioners.
In 1949 the United Nations general assembly asked secretary general to create a committee to investigate the status of slavery and the slave trade. The committee, which was active in 1950-1951, was a joint effort of the U.N. Economic and Social Council and the International Labour Organization. The committee published their findings in a report in 1951.
Born in Lenox, Massachusetts on June 29, 1886, James Van Der Zee moved to Harlem, New York City as a young man, and had already established his own photography studio on West 135th Street by 1916; sometime in the early 1930s he moved his flourishing studio to 272 Lenox Avenue. He became one of the leading figures of the Harlem Renaissance and was much sought after due to his talent for portraiture.
in 1969 his work was featured in a 1969 Metropolitan Museum of Art exhibition, "Harlem on my Mind," after which, already in his eighties, he enjoyed a revitalized career and received many accolades. He received the Living Legacy Award from President Carter in 1978, and was named a fellow of the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
Van Der Zee died in Washington, D.C. on May 15, 1983, shortly after receiving an honorary doctorate from Howard University. His widow, Donna Mussenden Van Der Zee, manages the James Van Der Zee estate. His work is held by major U.S. cultural institutions and has been exhibited around the world.
Jacob Van Lear was a resident of Augusta Co., Va. He married Jane Berry Tate, and the two had seven children, Claudia, John, William, Samuel, Mary, Eveline, and James.
F. Vester was probably Frederick Vester, who was a member of the American Colony in Jerusalem, a religious community founded by American emigre Christians Horatio Gates Spafford (1828-1888) and Anna T. Spafford, and perpetuated by their daughter, Bertha Spafford Vester, and others. Frederick Vester helped form the Photo department in the Colony.
Ken Wainio was born in Ukiah, California, about two hours north of San Francisco, in 1952. He began to write at age fifteen--having been influenced by the writings of the French poets Lautreamont, Rimbaud, and Nerval. He moved to San Francisco at the beginning of the 1970s to study at San Francisco State University with the Greek surrealist poet Nanos Valaoritis, and met the American surrealist poets Philip Lamantia and Stephen Schwartz. A couple of years later, in an informal "poetry class" being conducted in the home of Harold Norse, he met Thomas Rain Crowe, Neeli Cherkovski and Luke Breit--along with whom he would later help to resurrect Beatitude magazine. Wainio was co-editor of issue No. 26 which appeared in 1977. During the 1970s, his poems were regularly published in Bay area literary magazines. With Jerry Estrin, Wainio was a founding editor of the surrealist publication Vanishing Cab. After driving a taxicab for the entire decade of the 1980s, he moved to Glenhaven, California. His travels took him to Greece and Egypt, where he spent considerable time in the 1980s and 1990s. His poems and fiction were published both in America and abroad in such journals as Nexus, Asheville Poetry Review, Litterature en Marche and Gregas in Montpellier, France. His books included Crossroads of the Other (written in the 1970s and published in 1994), Letters to Al-Kemi, Starfuck (a novel published on computer disk in 1996) and Automatic Antiquity (a collection of poetry published in 2004). Wainio died on January 26, 2006.
Biographical note source: The Baby Beats & The 2nd San Francisco Renaissance. New Native Press, 2005.
These posters were collected by an anonymous detective of the Westcheser County, NY police department.
Henry Washington was born 1923 March 7 to parents Issac R. Washington and Irene Surrey Washington. He served as a sergeant in the U.S. Army Air Corps during World War II, as a repairman for the Tuskegee Airmen. In his private life, Washington was an artist and musician. He was a lifelong resident of Roxbury, Massachusetts, and died there 1996 Oct 24.
Zuriel Waterman was a physician from Cranston, Rhode Island and served as a surgeon aboard several American privateers during the Revolutionary War. He relocated to Edenton, North Carolina after the war.
Born August 23, 1902, Herbert Lee Waters spent the majority of his life in Lexington, North Carolina operating a photography studio. Waters supplemented his income from 1936-1942 by traveling across North Carolina and parts of Virginia, Tennessee, and South Carolina to film the people of small communities. He collaborated with local movie theaters to screen his films, which he called Movies of Local People and billed with the phrase "See yourself in the movies!" It is estimated that Waters created films in 118 communities, visiting some of them multiple times. In 1942, Waters returned to Lexington and continued operating his photographic studio until his death in 1997. The Library of Congress listed Waters' Kannapolis film on the National Film Registry in 2004. 1966 Opened upon the departures of Mary Wells, Richard Rich, and Stewart Greene from Jack Tinker and Partners
1967 Won American Motors Company (AMC) account
1968 Won Trans World Airlines (TWA) account
Initial public offering
1969 Richard Rich left WRG
1970 AMC Gremlin launch
Won Alka-Seltzer account (Miles Laboratories)
1971 Agency of record, Procter & Gamble
1974 WRG reverted to private ownership
Stewart Greene left WRG
1979 Won Ford Motor Company corporate account
1990 Mary Wells Lawrence resigned as CEO, replaced by Ken Olshan
1991 Majority stake sold to BDDP; renamed Wells Rich Greene BDDP
1996 Sold to GGT PLC (London)
1997 Renamed Wells BDDP; soon after sold to Omnicom Group
1998 Dissolved by Omnicom
Among the notable campaign slogans created by WRG: Plop, plop, fizz, fizz,I can't believe I ate the whole thing, and Try it, you'll like it (all for Alka-Seltzer); I (heart) New York (New York State Commerce Commission); Trust the Midas Touch (Midas Muffler); At Ford, Quality is Job 1 (Ford Motor Company); and Raise Your Hand If You're Sure (Procter & Gamble's Sure anti-perpirant). 1928 May 25 Born Mary Georgene Berg, Youngstown, Oh.
Circa 1945 Attended Neighborhood Playhouse School of the Theater, New York, N.Y.
Circa 1947 Attended Carnegie Institute of Technology
Married Bert Wells
1951 Advertising writer, McKelvey's Department Store, Youngstown, Oh.
1952 Fashion Advertising Manager, Macy's Department Store, New York, N.Y.
1953 Copy Chief, McCann-Erickson agency
1957-1963 Worked at Doyle Dane Bernbach
1964-1966 Worked at Jack Tinker and Partners; primary responsibility for Braniff Airlines account
1965 Divorced Bert Wells
1966 Opened Wells Rich Greene, Inc. with Richard Rich, and Stewart Greene, associates from Jack Tinker and Partners
1967 Married Harding Lawrence, CEO of Braniff Airlines
1968 Upon WRG Initial public offering, became first woman CEO of a company listed on the New York Stock Exchange
1969 Considered the highest-paid woman in U.S. advertising industry
Inducted into Copywriters' Hall of Fame
1970 Honorary Doctor of Law, Babson College
1971 Named Advertising Woman of the Year
Honorary Doctorate, Carnegie-Mellon University
2002 Memoir, A Big Life in Advertising, published
Harding Lawrence died
Sources:Advertising Age Encyclopedia of Advertising (Fitzroy Dearborn 2003); The Ad Men and Women (Applegate 1994); Who's Who in Advertising (1963-); Wikipedia, Mary Wells Lawrence The Westall Family was a prominent family from Asheville, NC.
Zerah Colburn Whipple was a peace activist, and editor and publisher of THE VOICE OF PEACE.
Carl and Enid Whirley were Southern Baptist missionaries to Nigeria from 1947 to 1980. In 1943 both graduated from Howard College, now Samford University, in Birmingham, Alabama. Carl completed a Doctor of Theology from the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary while in Nigeria in 1958. Enid completed the Woman's Missionary Union Training School. They began their time as missionaries at the Olivet Baptist High School, then called the Oyo Baptist Boys' High School, in 1948. Carl served as the school's principal. Thereafter they worked at the Baptist College in Iwo, Hillcrest School in Jos, and Newton Memorial School in Osogbo. From 1971-1979, Carl was president of the Nigerian Baptist Theological Seminary in Ogbomosho. Enid continued to remain active in the Women's Missionary Union of Nigeria. Upon retirement, Carl served as a professor in the religion department at Samford University until 1987. The Whirleys also returned to the United States on several occasions during their time as missionaries, during which they spoke at churches throughout the American South.
Dorothy Whitlock (1894-1989) was the Director of Occupational Therapy at the State Tuberculosis Sanatorium in Ogden, Utah and later worked as an occupational therapist at the Veterans' Administration Hospital in Oteen, North Carolina. Whitlock was also a talented medical illustrator and created many illustrations of medical procedures, conditions, tools, and other images relating to the practice of medicine.
Susan Wicklund was born in 1954 and spent her career as an abortion provider in the Midwest. In her early twenties, she herself received an abortion just three years after the procedure was legalized. Her experience was relatively traumatic due in part to the apathy of the providers. This inspired her to pursue a career in medicine so that she could one day be the kind of abortion provider she wished she had when she underwent the procedure. She opened her own clinic in 1993, after which she faced constant threats from anti-abortion groups, and was targeted as a murderer of children. Despite fearing for her life, she continued practicing until 2013, when she retired and closed her clinic, the Mountain Country Women's Clinic in Livingston, Montana. She recounts her experiences in her own words in her book This Common Secret: My Journey as an Abortion Doctor, which was published in 2007.
James King Wilkerson was born in North Carolina June 12, 1842, probably in Granville County, the son of Alexander Hamilton and Mary Ann D. Royster Wilkerson. He enlisted in the Confederate Army in 1861 and served through the end of the war. He married Elizabeth Frances Slaughter (1849-1929) Dec. 16, 1869 and had two children, Luther C. (1874-1942) and Lillie (1877-1955); Lillie became Lillie Cutts by marriage. James K. Wilkerson died in Granville County, N.C. June 1, 1919, and is buried in the Stovall Baptist Church cemetery, Granville County, N.C.
The primary correspondent in this collection is Charles Wilkes (1798-1877), naval officer and explorer, who was a collateral descendant of John Wilkes (1727-1797), the noted English politician. Charles Wilkes was born in New York City, the son of John De Ponthieu and Mary (Seton) Wilkes. From 1815 through 1817 Wilkes was in the merchant service on board several ships until he was appointed midshipman in the U. S. Navy on Jan. 1, 1818. His naval career was destined to be a rather distinguished, yet controversial one. During the next fifteen years he served on board several ships including the Franklin and the Waterwitch, was promoted to lieutenant in 1826, and surveyed the Narragansett Bay in 1832-1833. Wilkes's scientific achievements were rewarded by his appointment to take charge of the Depot of Charts and Instruments in Washington, D. C. in 1833. In 1837 and 1838 he was involved in further surveying work at the shoals of Georges Bank and the Savannah River.
In 1838 Secretary of War Poinsett ordered Wilkes to command the South Seas Surveying and Exploring Expedition. This expedition and the publications concerning it provided the primary focus for his career until 1861. This Exploring Expedition, which was absent from the United States from 1838 to 1842, had as its chief fields of exploration the islands of the Pacific Ocean, the coast of the Antarctic Continent, and the American Northwest coast. From 1843 to 1861, Wilkes was assigned to special duty, chiefly to be in charge of the Exploring Expedition collections and reports. In 1844 his Narrative of the United States Exploring Expedition was published, and scientific volumes appeared from time to time. In 1842 Wilkes had been tried by a court-martial and sentenced to be publicly reprimanded for illegally punishing some of his men. Despite this he was promoted to commander in 1843 and to captain in 1855.
During the Civil War Charles Wilkes took the controversial step of overhauling the British mail steamer Trent and removed by force the Confederate commissioners James Mason and John Slidell, He saw other service in a variety of commands and received promotion to commodore and then to acting rear admiral in 1862. Again in 1864 Wilkes was court-martialed and found guilty. Two years later he was promoted to rear admiral on the retired list and was placed on special duty for a part of 1870-1873, After the Civil War he purchased the iron works at High Shoals, N. C. and pursued business interests there for several years.
Wilkes was married twice: first to Jane Jeffrey Renwick, sister of James Renwick (1792-1863) in 1826, and then to Msry H. (Lynch) Bolton in 1854, after the death of his first wife, He had six children from these marriages, For further biographical information please consult Autobiography of Rear Admiral Charles Wilkes. U. S. Navy, 1798-1877 (Washington, 1978); The Hidden Coasts by Daniel Henderson (New York, 1953); and other sources listed in the Information Folder in box 1 of the collection,
John (''Jack'') Wilkes (1827-1908), sailor and businessman, was the son of Charles Wilkes as well as a correspondent in this collection. Immediately after his appointment as a midshipman on September 9, 1841, young Wilkes was sent to sea. He served on the Delaware and on the Mississippi in the Gulf Squadron during the Mexican War. His appointment to the U. S. Naval Academy came in 1846. After graduation he was assigned to duty on the Albany and on the Marion. In about 1848 his father had him transferred for a time to work on the charts and calculations of the Exploring Expedition. On Nov. 3, 1854, he resigned his commission.
John Wilkes settled in Charlotte, N. C. in December, 1853, probably during a leave of absence from the U. S. Navy. He moved to North Carolina to supervise certain mining and milling property but in 1858 purchased the Mecklenburg Flour Mills The next year he became the proprietor of what would eventually be titled the Mecklenburg Iron Works. During the Civil War Wilkes took an active role in the Southern effort through his service in the local vigilance committee and the Home Guards, and as a financial advisor to North Carolina state officials. Wilkes also became a railroad contractor in government service.
In August, 1869 Wilkes obtained a charter for the First National Bank of Charlotte and served as its first president until 1869. This bank had the distinction of being the first national bank established south of Richmond. Wilkes formed a business partnership in the Rock Island Woolen Mills, but after its failure he devoted his energy to the successful Mecklenburg Iron Works.
Wilkes married Jane Renwick Smedberg of New York in April, 1854. Mrs Wilkes became a prominent Charlotte philanthropist. The couple had nine children, five of whom died at a young age. For further biographical information please see Biographical History of North Carolina by Samuel A. Ashe (Greensboro, 1906); Biographical Dictionary of the Confederacy by Jon L, Wakelyn (Westport, Conn., 1977); and Confederate Military History, vol. IV(Atlanta, 1899).
Helen Maria Williams was a British novelist, poet, and translator of French-language works. A religious dissenter, she was a supporter of abolitionism and of the ideals of the French Revolution; she was imprisoned in Paris during the Reign of Terror, but nonetheless spent much of the rest of her life in France.
Bailey Willis (1857-1949) was a geological engineer who worked for the U.S. Geological Survey. He was born in New York and studied at Columbia University, earning degrees in mechanical and civil engineering. In 1879, he began working with the Northern Pacific Railroad, under the direction of Raphael Pumpelly, and surveyed regions of Appalachia and the Northwestern U.S. He visited Mt. Rainier in 1882, and later contributed to its designation as a National Park.
Willis began working for the U.S. Geological Survey in 1884, spending the next decade working and researching in the Appalachian Mountains and throughout the eastern U.S. His publications on the region's geology garnered international attention from scientists. In 1903, he led an expedition funded by the Carnegie Institution to northern China, an area previously unexplored by geologists. He also traveled and mapped geology throughout South America, Africa, Asia, and Eastern Europe. Later in his career he lectured at Johns Hopkins and Stanford, retiring from teaching in 1922. He remained an active explorer and geologist, however, until his death in 1949.
Willis married Altona Grinnell in 1882; the couple had one child before she died in 1896. Willis remarried in 1898 to Margaret Baker. They had three children.
This historical note is drawn from Eliot Blackwelder's biographical memoir "Bailey Willis: 1857-1949," published by the National Academy of Sciences in 1961.
May be the author Eliza Wilson (Mrs. Robert Wilson) of Kirkdale, Liverpool, England.
Enoch Cobb Wines was a prison reformer and served as corresponding secretary of the National Prison Association.
Andrej Svorenčik studied theoretical physics and economics in his native Slovakia and social sciences at California Institute of Technology. He defended his dissertation on the history of experimental economics at the University of Utrecht in 2015. In 2010 Svorenčik, along with history of economics scholar Harro Maas, organized the Witness Seminar on Experimental Economics at the Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences (KNAW).
The Workers League for a Revolutionary Party, originally the Leninist League of the United States, was founded by George Spiro in 1938. Spiro, known as George Marlin (a portmanteau of Marx and Lenin), formed the party after an ideological conflict with the Revolutionary Workers League (RWL), formed by Hugo Oehler as a Trotskyist movement within the Workers Party of the United States. The conflict arose after RWL's rejection of Trotskyism. Spiro and his followers, known as Marlenites, felt that the Leninsit League did not go far enough in vocalizing its rejection of Trotskyism and Trotsky himself. The party published a newspaper, In Defense of Bolshevism. Interpreteing the Second World War as a war on the proletariat, the party became critical of both Leninism and Marxism, and in 1946, changed its name to the Workers League for a Revlutionary Party. Amidst internal dissent, the party dissolved around 1950.
Robert Wolf was a forester with the Bureau of Land Management, the U.S. Forest Service, the Bureau of the Budget, and the Office of Investigations for the Comptroller General. He is credited with drafting the National Forest Management Act of 1976.
The Women's Guild of Arts was founded in England in 1907 by textile designer and jeweller May Morris, and grew to about 60 members. The organization offered female artists an alternative to the Art Workers' Guild, the artists' association established in 1884 to encourage excellence in the fine and applied arts, and from which women were excluded until the 1960s. Mary Seton Watts was Hon. Chairman between 1907 until 1914, when she assumed the title of Hon. President. May Morris was the first Hon. Secretary, and Chairman from 1915 onwards. Etcher and engraver Mary A. Sloane was the Hon. Secretary from 1909 to 1924. The Guild also included the painters Marianne Stokes, Annie Swynnerton, Marie Stillman, Kate Bunce and Evelyn De Morgan; the bookbinder, Katharine Adams; and the house decorator, Agnes Garrett. There were notable upper-class members such as the sculptor Feodora Gleichen and tempera painter Christiana Herringham.
The Women's Worship Circle was founded in 1993, largely by women who were connected to St. Paul Seminary at the University of St. Thomas in St. Thomas, Minnesota. Many of the early members had attended the Re-Imagining Conference that toook place in Minneapolis also in 1993.
Members divided the work of preparing church services, which were informed by Catholic and Lutheran liturgy. They met and had their services in the United Church of Christ Lyndale Church from December 1994 until 2000. The group disbanded in 2000.
Woolworth's was a discount retail chain founded by Frank W. Woolworth in 1879 in Lancaster, Pa. Discount chain Woolco opened 1962, closed in the U.S. 1983; 1997 closed last remaining stores in the U.S., renamed the firm Venator; renamed Foot Llocker, Inc. 2001
Rev. William Young, was an itinerant Methodist preacher. Young was born in Staunton, Virginia, and at age 27 was ordained an elder and appointed to the Charleston, Virginia, circuit. In 1837 he was given circuit assignments in Ohio, where he served for the remainder of his career, working in Urbana, Piqua, Springfield, Cincinnati, Zanesville and Marietta. Young also served occasionally as a presiding elder and as an agent for Ohio Wesleyan University, Cincinnati Female College, and the American Tract Society.
The collection was purchased by the Duke University David M. Rubenstein Rare Book & Manuscript Library from Carmen Valentino in 1998. Acc. 2011-0153 was donated in 2011.
The Garrett Orr Papers were transferred to the David M. Rubenstein Rare Book & Manuscript Library from Fairleigh Dickinson University in 1996 and 2000.
The Louis H. (Louis Harry) Roddis Papers were donated to the David M. Rubenstein Rare Book & Manuscript Library by Louis H. and Alice Roddis in 1982, 1984, 1991, and 1992. Processing of this collection was supported in part by gifts from Louis H. Roddis.
The collection principally comprises a large series of correspondence and legal records accumulated by North Carolina lawyer and politician Charles L. Abernethy, Sr. during his tenure as U.S. Congressman. There are papers relating to the senior Abernethy's law practice and business dealings in Beaufort and New Bern, N.C. (including legal papers concerning land development in Carteret County, Cape Lookout, and Horse Island maintained by both father and son).
Other materials include deeds and other early papers, political speeches, newspaper clippings and scrapbooks of Abernethy's political career, a diary, and the Abernethy coat-of-arms. There are also papers assembled by Abernethy's son, Charles L. Abernethy, Jr., a lawyer in his father's firm, and a volume of his poetry.
A lare group of photographs and albums includes a photograph album containing snapshots the elder Abernethy took during a congressional trip to Alaska for three months of 1923 (including photographs of President and Mrs. Harding), as well as a typescript of his diary from the trip; and an album containing postcards of Beaufort, N.C, in 1907, featuring a celebration of either the 200th anniversary of the town's founding or the opening of passenger and rail service to the town (or both).
Collection includes founding documents, newsletters, and promotional materials from the Abortion Care Network, with items dating from 2007 to 2010 and undated. Acquired as part of the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture.
The Alvin A. Achenbaum Papers span the years 1948-2011 and document Achenbaum's career in advertising (with Grey Advertising, J. Walter Thompson and Backer Spielvogel Bates agencies) and marketing consulting (as a partner in Alvin Achenbaum Associates, Canter Achenbaum Heekin, and Achenbaum Bogda Associates). Collection includes writings and speeches, correspondence, photographs, research reports and related materials. Clients represented include 7-Eleven, American Red Cross, AT&T, Block Drug, Bristol-Myers, Campbell Soup, Chrysler, Dairy Queen, Dentsu, Franklin Mint, General Foods, GTE, Hallmark, Honda, Integrity Music, Kayser-Roth, Kia, K-Mart, Miller Brewing, MTA, Nationwide, Nestlé, Nissan/Datsun, PCA, Pfizer, Philip Morris, Quaker Oats, Revlon, Ryerson Tull, Seagram, Toyota, U.S. Dept. of Defense, and Warner-Lambert.
The papers of Kathy Acker, 1975-1996 and undated, are comprised, for the most part, of manuscript drafts of her novels, short stories, and other miscellaneous writings ranging from early works such as The Childlike Life of the Black Tarantula (1975) to her last novel Pussy, King of the Pirates (1996). Described as a cyberpunk author and performance artist, Acker's novels question the strictures of female sexuality and the power of language.
The volumes of The Childlike Life of the Black Tarantula were self-published and distributed by Kathy Acker. The novel was presented in six serialized parts, usually mailed to subscribers, friends, and potentially interested parties. Volumbes 1 and 3 are text sheets cut to size and mounted. Volumes 1-5 bear Ron Silliman's small ownership stamp.
Part one of six parts titled "Intention: I become a murderess by repeating in words the lives of other murderesses." 37 pages.
Part two of six parts entitled: "A point-to-point comparison between my life and the life of Moll Catpurse, the Queen-Regent of Misrule, the Roaring Girl, the benevolent tyrant of city thieves and city murderers, the Bear Lady." 11 pages.
Part three of six parts entitled: "A secret document: I move to San Francisco, I begin to copy my favorite pornography books and become the main person in each of them." 21 pages.
Part four of six parts entitled: "I become Helen Seferis, and then, Alexander Trocchi." 46 pages.
Part five of six parts entitled: "I explore my miserable childhood: I become William Butler Yeats." 29 pages.
Part six of six parts, entitled: "The story of my life." 28 pages.
Likely intended to be another serial publication, but never finished or distributed.
Includes promotional audiovisual materials, including one mixtape produced by Town House Studios in London, and three promotional compact discs.
Electronic files include writings by Acker.
Audiocassette RL00011-CS-0008 removed to Box 33.
Jeff Goldberg is a friend and collaborator of Kathy Acker. These materials consist of postcards and letters from Acker to Goldberg as well as materials related to the estate of Acker's mother, Claire W. Alexander.
Collection includes photographic prints, programs, clippings, fliers, and other printed materials.
Album contains 106 black-and-white and color photographs carefully arranged and mounted in a black-leaf photograph album, bound in Japanese-style lacquered covers inlaid with mother-of-pearl. Photographer may be an African American soldier named Tommy, who served in the U.S. Army's 511th Operation and Maintenance Service (OM SVC) Company during the Korean War. It is unclear whether the photographs are from Japan or Korea, as the latter was strongly influenced by Japanese culture until the end of World War II.
The images depict soldiers in and out of uniform and often engaged in recreational pursuits. Many photographs depict both white and African American soldiers together. Other subjects include local women and children; women with servicemen; the countryside and Japanese-style buildings; and family members and others back home. Included with the album is an early 20th century 10 1/2 x 14 inch portrait of four African American children.
Acquired as part of the John Hope Franklin Research Center for African and African American History and Culture at Duke University.
Consists of approximately 50 posters the bulk of which consist of corporate promotions depicting notable African Americans or significant moments in African American history and culture. Posters include biographical sketches of African American writers, scientists, professional athletes, soldiers, civil rights workers and celebrity entertainers. Participating companies include Anheuser-Busch (Budweiser), Army National Guard, CIBA-GEIGY, Columbia Artists Management, Federal Home Loan Bank, Honeywell, Nabisco and Pepsi. Also included in the collection are a number of promotional posters produced by and for the NAACP that address the organization's campaigns to reduce poverty, school dropouts and voter registration, as well as calls to join the NAACP. Acquired as part of the John Hope Franklin Research Center for African and African American History and Culture and the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Features: Affonso I; Askia Mohammed Toure; Mansa Kankan Mussa; Shaka Zulu; Menelek II; Hannibal; Akhenaton; Taharqa/Tirharkah
Features: Lloyd N. Ferguson; Augustus A. White III; Samuel L. Kountz; David Blackwell; Jennie R. Patrick; LaSalle D. Leffall Jr.; Reatha Clark King; Walter E. Massey
Features: Shirley Verrett; Leontyne Price
Includes: Army National Guard: You Belong, featuring William H. Carney 1975; Army National Guard: Hell Fighters from Harlem 1974; Bell System: Communication in Black Culture; Coors: Heritage Series "Settlers" 1981; Honeywell: Martin Luther King Jr. "The ultimate measure of a man..." 1980; Nabisco: Famous Black American Writers
Includes: Back to School/Stay in School Program; Civil Rights is for Everybody Regardless of Color Join NAACP; "In There" Join Work in the NAACP featuring Bob Gibson approximately 1967; Keep the Idea of Freedom Alive Join NAACP featuring Mrs. Medgar W. Evers; People is What the NAACP is About; What's Your Bag Brother Helpin' or Hurtin'
Features: Paul Robeson; Harriet Tubman; John Henry; Jackie Robinson; Charlie Christian; Alexander Dumas; Garrett A. Morgan
Includes: Charles Evers Senate campaign; 18 Year Old Can Vote--Have You Registered?; Be Counted on Election Day--Register So You Can Vote; Black Is Beautiful But You Look Prettier When You Are Registered; Put Your Vote Where Your Mouth Is
The African Americans in Film collection includes ephemeral materials promoting and advertising motion pictures featuring Black actors, directors, and production companies. Materials in this collection include press books, posters, promotional booklets, campaign books, advertising manuals, programs, lobby cards, and other formats. The films documented include silent films, Blaxploitation films, blockbuster action films, musicals, documentaries, and dramas, from smaller Black owned and operated companies to major studio productions. Actors frequently featured in films documented here include Sidney Poitier, Dorothy Dandridge, Pam Grier, Jim Brown, Brock Peters, Fred Williamson, Ruby Dee, Brenda Sykes, Sammie Davis Jr., James Earl Jones, and many others.
Description often includes the format of the material and/or one or more of the Black stars featured in the film. Some description provided by George Robert Minkoff Inc., the dealer from whom part of the collection was purchased, is provided in quotes. Some of that description may have originated from the books Blacks in American films and television: an encyclopedia. and Toms, coons, mulattoes, mammies, and bucks: an interpretive history of Blacks in American films., both by Donald Bogle. The majority of the materials are from the United States, but a few items were created by or for audiences in other countries such as Japan, Denmark, France, Germany, and the United Kingdom, and are noted as such.
French press book; Starring Eddie Murphy.
"Feature about the legendary boxer Muhammad Ali."
poster; white snipe over rating bug
poster
pressbook
poster
poster
British advertising promotion guide sheet
Press book; Starring Robert Hooks.
Advertising supplement; "Publicity specifically designed for Black audiences."
poster
Press book; Starring Moms Mabley and Stepin Fetchit.
Starring Bill Duke.
British press kit
Japanese promotional booklet; Starring Djimon Hounsou.
"Harry Belafonte produced and starred in this adaptation of Bernard Malamud."
Promotional booklet; "Sent out by Disney and containing an article about Danny Glover and the film."
pressbook
poster
Japanese promotional brochure; Starring Eddie Murphy.
poster
poster
pressbook
poster
"Spike Lee directed this film about a frustrated African American TV writer who proposes a blackface minstrel show in protest, but it becomes a hit, to his chagrin. Starring Damon Wayans, Savion Glover, Jada Pinkett Smith and Tommy Davidson."
poster
"Pam Grier in one of her early starring roles."
poster
British press kit
poster
French press sheet; "Clint Eastwood directed this biography of the legendary Charlie Parker, who was portrayed by Forest Whitaker."
poster
Press book; Starring Jim Kelly and Scatman Crothers.
Promotional booklet done like a comic book
Starring Fred Williamson.
poster
poster; moderate handling
pressbook
poster
lithograph print
Press book; Ossie Davis (director). Starring Leslie Uggams and Ruby Dee.
poster
"Black-cast drama about oil-drilling from the Norman Film Manufacturing Company."
pressbook
poster
Starring Pam Grier.
poster
Press book; "Rodeo documentary, with guest appearances by Muhammad Ali and Woody Strode."
pressbook
poster
pressbook
poster
pressbook
"Blaxploitation film starring John Daniels and Tanya Boyd."
poster; modest seam wear
lobby card
poster
poster
poster; A style; small patch repair
poster; B style; crunched corner
Starring Raymond St. Jacques.
poster
pressbook, lobby card
press photographs
Special promotional booklet; "Synopses in English, Spanish, French, German and Italian."
"Reissue of 1938 film The Duke is Tops; Lena Horne's debut film and a very rare specimen of Black independent filmmaking."
pressbook
poster
poster; All-black cast
poster
British press book
Press book; Starring Yaphet Kotto.
pressbook
poster
poster
"Advertising flyer for four Norman Film Manufacturing Company Black-cast films suggested as a quadruple bill: The Love Bug (1919), The Crimson Skull (1921), The Green-Eyed Monster (1919) and The Bull-Dogger (1921)."
"Film directed by Gillo Pontecorvo about a slave revolt on a Caribbean island early in the 19th century."
Starring Mike Sims.
poster
poster
Campaign press book; Starring Alex Briley and Ray Simpson.
pressbook
pressbook
poster
"Ossie Davis portrays a Southern Roman Catholic priest whose church has been burned by the KKK."
Danish theater program; "Program is extensively illustrated."
Lobby cards (2): "Poster is in color and shows actor Harry Belafonte, standing, kissing the feet of actress Dorothy Dandridge, who is sitting on the edge of a table. Visible graphic dimensions: 10.75x13.75 inches."
Press book; Starring Dorothy Morrison and the Combs Sisters.
premiere program
Ad supplement
Starring Raymond St. Jacques. "The brain of a white district attorney is transplanted into the body of a Black man."
poster
poster
Press book; "Richard Roundtree in a Blaxploitation western."
Campaign manual; Starring Jim Kelly.
Exhibitor's manual; "American release of the French film Les Tripes Au Soleil, a film whose setting is unclear (it seems to be a French film set in the Old West), with the cast equally divided between Black and white actors."
poster; extra fold
Press book; Starring James Earl Jones and Diahann Carroll.
poster
Exhibitor's campaign book; Starring Ivan Dixon.
poster; B style
Press book; Starring Tamara Dobson.
Press book; Starring Tamara Dobson.
premier program
Starring Pam Grier.
pressbook
poster; A style
poster; B style
Exhibitor's campaign book (British press book);
poster; white snipe over rating
Press book; Starring Godfrey Cambridge and Raymond St. Jacques. "This is a sequel to Cotton Comes to Harlem, adapted, like its precursor, from Chester Himes."
poster; All-black cast
Starring Jim Brown.
Press book; Starring Pam Grier and Thalmus Rasulala.
poster
Pressbook; directed by Shirley Clarke.
poster; B style
pressbook
poster
pressbook
Japanese promotional brochure; Starring Gregory Hines.
pressbook
pressbook
poster
poster; credit correction; snipe glue to bottom
"From the Norman Film Manufacturing Company: Baffling Western Mystery Photo-Play. Supported by Bill Pickett, World's Champion Wild West Performer, the one-legged Marvel, Steve Reynolds, and 30 Colored Cowboys. Produced in the All-Colored City of Boley, Okla. An Epic of Wild Life and Smoking Revolvers. All-Colored Cast. Contains an article by star Anita Bush, Introduction of Negro Drama in New York."
"Advertising flyer for four Norman Film Manufacturing Company Black-cast films suggested as a quadruple bill: The Love Bug (1919), The Crimson Skull (1921), The Green-Eyed Monster (1919) and The Bull-Dogger (1921)."
Starring Jim Brown.
poster
Press book; Starring Dorothy Dandridge.
Press book; Starring Sidney Poitier.
poster
Japanese promotional booklet; Starring Wesley Snipes.
Starring Al Freeman, Jr.
British press book
pressbook
poster
Ad pad
Ad supplement
Japanese promotional booklet; Starring Samuel L. Jackson.
poster
poster
pressbook
poster
British press book
Press book; Starring Sidney Poitier.
Advertising supplement
Press book; Starring Richard Roundtree.
"Action film with female stars, one African-American, one Caucasian, and one Asian."
Press book; Starring Sidney Poitier and Ruby Dee.
pressbook
poster
poster
Starring Rosey Greer.
poster
press photographs
poster
Starring Billy Dee Williams.
Press book; Starring Ja'net DuBois, Virginia Capers, and Sonny Jim Gaines.
poster
"A Black-cast aviation drama from the Norman Film Manufacturing Company."
Press book; "Sidney Poitier starred in this film; screenplay from an original story by Poitier."
poster; wear at folds
British press book; Starring Pam Grier.
poster
Starring Pam Grier.
sell sheets
pressbook
poster; NSS stamp on bottom border
"Country and western musical film, racially integrated by the presence of singer Charley Pride."
poster
Press book; Starring Diane Sands. Script by Maya Angelou.
poster
British press book; Starring Ernie Hudson.
Promotional book; Starring Denzel Washington, Morgan Freeman, and Andre Braugher. "Sumptuously illustrated book on the film, printed in a small edition for circulation to major theater chains."
Broadsides; "Four broadsides used in the movie. Includes: "Proclamation... April 10, 1863" (2 copies); "The Enemy is Approaching;" and "Regulations for Camp Readville.""
Lobby card; "Directed by Oscar Micheaux. From the story Naomi, Negress. Poster, circa 1938, is in color and shows a seated man on left, bending over a distressed woman lying sick in bed. Visible graphic dimensions: 10.75x13.75 inches."
Lobby cards and bag; "Eight lobby cards used to advertise the movie in theater lobbies, along with the paper bag for the cards."
pressbook
Reissued 1967; Starring Hattie McDaniel.
Reissued 1967; Starring Hattie McDaniel.
Press book; Starring Paul Winfield. Bogle, p. 96: [Winfield] portrays a Vietnam veteran returning home to New York to a dead wife, the victim of a drug overdose. Enlisting the aid of three other Viet vets, he becomes a vigilante, determined to rub out the dope dealers.
Promotional brochure
poster
British press book; Starring Danny Glover.
Advertising supplement
Press book; Starring James Earl Jones.
poster
pressbook
"Advertising flyer for four Norman Film Manufacturing Company Black-cast films suggested as a quadruple bill: The Love Bug (1919), The Crimson Skull (1921), The Green-Eyed Monster (1919) and The Bull-Dogger (1921)."
pressbook
poster; patch repair, stains in border
1969 reissue of 1967 film on double-bill with 1966 film To Sir, With Love; Starring Sidney Poitier.
poster
Starring Calvin Lockhart.
poster
Starring Fred Williamson.
poster
Pressbook; "Cicely Tyson in a Carson McCullers adaptation."
Special promotional flyer
poster
"Detective film, starred Bill Cosby with his costar from the I Spy television series of the 1960s, Robert Culp."
poster
Press book; Starring Bernie Casey.
Press book and merchandising manual; Starring Billie Dee Williams and Richard Pryor.
pressbook
pressbook
Starring Brenda Sykes.
poster
poster
Press book ad supplement;
Starring Max Julien.
poster
Press book; Starring Jim Brown.
poster
poster
poster
pressbook
Danish illustrated theater program
Special ad supplement; "Issued in conjunction with the film's winning two Oscars."
Press book; Starring Ruby Dee and Brock Peters.
Starring Halle Berry.
pressbook
poster
poster
pressbook
poster
Press book; Starring Jim Brown.
Advertising booklet
Supplementary advertising sheets
poster; A style; moderate wear
poster
poster
Starring Diana Ross, Billy Dee Williams, and Richard Pryor.
Advertising
Press book ad supplement
Screenplay by William Gunn. Starring Pearl Bailey, Diana Sands, and Louis Gossett Jr.
poster
Press book; "Robert Hooks in a Tennesse Williams adaptation of The Seven Descents of Myrtle."
poster
poster
Press book; Director and producer: Gordon Parks.
Promotional flyer
poster
pressbook
"Ella Fitzgerald's first dramatic role, that of a nightclub singer in a Skid Row bar."
poster
poster
poster
Press book insert
Press book insert; "This press book insert was especially prepared for placement in Negro newspapers."
Press book; Starring Yaphet Kotto.
Danish souvenir program; "All original materials from Lifeboat are extremely uncommon. Canada Lee co-starred in this Hitchcock film from a script by John Steinbeck. Lee's performance is often cited by historians as an early case of a Black actor playing a non-stereotypical role in a major Hollywood film."
poster
Danish illustrated theater program
Press book; Starring Sidney Poitier.
poster
Starring Sidney Poitier.
poster
poster
Starring Sidney Poitier.
Advertising supplement
Advertising flyer; "Advertising flyer for four Norman Film Manufacturing Company Black-cast films suggested as a quadruple bill: The Love Bug (1919), The Crimson Skull (1921), The Green-Eyed Monster (1919) and The Bull-Dogger (1921)."
Press book insert
Press book; Starring Brock Peters.
Press book insert
1977 reissue of 1973 film; Starring Richard Pryor.
poster
Press book; Starring Dorothy Dandridge
poster
Press book; "Feature-length documentary about the life of Malcolm X, given a very limited release by Warner Brothers, all materials from this film are extremely hard to find."
Promotional book; "Directed by Spike Lee. Deluxe special illustrated promotional book on the film, printed in small edition, profusely and richly illustrated."
poster; A style
poster; B style
Ad Supplement; "With special promotion for Black audiences."
Press book; Starring James Earl Jones. "The first Black President of the United States. First they swore him in. Then they swore to get him."
poster
Starring Ken Norton and Brenda Sykes.
Starring Sidney Poitier, Eartha Kitt, and Juano Hernandez.
Starring Basil Wallace.
poster
Starring Brock Peters.
British press book
Starring Clifton Brown.
poster
Japanese promotional brochure; Starring Will Smith.
Screening program; Starring Ving Rhames.
pressbook
poster; minor bleed-thru of distributor stamp
poster
Starring Jeanne Bell and Jayne Kennedy.
British press book; Starring O.J. Simpson.
Starring Ken Gampu.
British campaign book
Promotional pamphlet
Japanese promotional brochure; Starring Wesley Snipes.
pressbook
poster
pressbook
poster
poster
poster
poster; rippled lower border
Press book; Starring Sammy Davis, Jr.
Starring Sidney Poitier.
pressbook
Press book; Starring Sidney Poitier and Diahann Carroll.
poster
pressbook
poster
poster; rippling at folds from folding
pressbook
poster
poster
pressbook
British press book; Strring Michael Winslow and Bubba Smith.
Press book; Starring Sidney Poitier.
Promotional flyer
Press book; Starring Jimi Hendrix.
pressbook
"Romance in Southern Seas featuring Stella Mayo, Sensational Colored Screen Beauty. All-Colored Cast, contains a detailed list of proposed upcoming production and text emphasizing that Norman is the only Company making Colored Pictures that owns and operates its own studio and laboratory."
Lobby cards (6); "Group of six half-tone lobby cards. 11x14 inches; some small stains here and there. Florida: Toddy Films, 1948. One of a series of Toddy Films' comedies featuring Mantan Moreland."
Press book; Starring Jim Brown.
Promotional booklet The Prison Record
Press book; "Sammy Davis Jr. in one of the famous Rat Pack films with Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin, et al." Bogle II, p. 214-5: On the surface the clan pictures were egalitarian affairs; underneath they rotted from white patronizing and hypocrisy.
"B-movie rock musical showcased calypso group the Five Stars."
Promotional flyer
Advertising supplement
Press book; Starring Ossie Davis.
"Rare film about Afro-British life, a mystery about a young woman attempting to pass."
pressbook
poster
poster
Press book; Featuring Jesse Jackson, Sammy Davis Jr., the Chi-Lites, Nancy Wilson, and the Temptations. "Concert film from the 1972 Operation PUSH exposition in Chicago, interspersed with documentary footage of the period."
Advertising sheets
Advertising supplement (#2)
poster
poster
British press book
Starring William Marshall.
Press book; Starring Henry Baker.
poster
Press book; Starring Richard Roundtree.
Press book; "One of the legendary films which launched the Blaxploitation film cycle of the 1970s."
Press book; "Director Gordon Parks and Richard Roundtree teamed up again for this first sequel."
Press book
poster; All-black cast
Promotional brochure
Press book; "The first of a very successful series of comedies pairing Richard Pryor and Gene Wilder."
poster; undersized, extra folds
Press book; Starring Lou Gossett, Jr.
poster
Press book; Starring Jim Brown and Judy Pace.
poster
premiere program
poster
Starring Jim Brown and Brock Peters.
Starring Dionne Warwick and Ossie Davis. "Official entry 1969 Cannes Film Festival."
Starring Sidney Poitier.
pressbook
poster
poster; smudge in right border
Press book; Starring Fred Williamson.
Advertising sheets
poster
"Very early entry in the Blaxploitation cycle starring athlete Rafer Johnson."
poster
poster
Press book; Starring Roberta Flack and Wilson Pickett.
pressbook
Starring Irene Cara and Lonette McKee.
poster
poster; B style
Campaign book; Starring Jim Brown and Diahann Carroll.
pressbook
Theatre program; Starring Eartha Kitt, Nat King Cole, Ruby Dee, Ella Fitzgerald, Cab Calloway, Pearl Bailey, and Mahalia Jackson. "Theatre program from Germany, with an elegant photomontage of images from the film."
poster
Souvenir program; "Famous wartime musical which made use of an astonishing virtual who's who of top African-American talents. Lena Horne. Fats Waller. The Nicholas Brothers. Cab Calloway. Bill Robinson. All promotional materials from this film are extremely scarce. This is a nicely illustrated souvenir program from Denmark."
pressbook
poster
poster
Starring Marki Bey.
poster
Press book; Starring Ron O'Neal.
Advertising sheets
Press book; Starring Ron O'Neal.
poster
Advertising supplement
Press book; Starring Roger E. Mosely.
poster; credit correction; snipe glue to bottom
Press book; "Melvin Van Peebles (director). [This is an extremely rare press book, all original materials from this film seem to have vanished a long time ago.]"
poster; Canadian ink censor stamp
pressbook
Ad supplement
pressbook
poster
lobby cards
Press book; Starring Jackie Wilson and Chubby Checker.
Press book; Starring Fred Williamson.
Advertising supplement
poster
Press book; Starring the group Earth, Wind, and Fire.
poster; NSS stamp at bottom
poster
Press book; Starring Sidney Poitier.
pressbook
poster
poster
Starring Jim Brown, Fred Williamson, and Jim Kelly. Directed by Gordon Parks, Jr.
pressbook
poster
poster; image of James Edwards
Starring Jim Brown. [A small area of blank margin to one leaf is missing, with no content affected].
poster
1967 reissue of 1962 film; Starring Brock Peters. "Reissue on a double bill with, of all the possible unlikely choices, a Doris Day comedy."
Starring Sidney Poitier.
Advertising press book insert; "Multiple-run and hold over advertising press book insert."
pressbook
poster
Starring Christopher St. John (also producer, writer, and director). Early entry in the Blaxploitation cycle. Bogle II, p. 241.
poster
Advertising booklet; Starring Roscoe Lee Browne
Advertising sheets
poster
Press book; Starring O.J. Simpson.
Special advertising printout
pressbook
poster
pressbook
Starring Robert Hooks and Paula Kelly.
poster
Starring Isaac Hayes.
Promotional newsletter; Starring Isaac Hayes. "Special promotional piece in the form of a newsletter, International Bail Bond News."
Press book; "Special press book for a double-bill release with Foxy Brown (1974)."
British campaign book; Starring Scatman Crothers.
Starring Hal Frederick and Esther Anderson. "Unusual but sensationally-treated story of mixed race couples."
poster
Starring Ruby Dee and Roscoe Lee Browne.
pressbook
poster
poster
Press book; Starring Sidney Poitier.
poster; B style
Press book insert
poster
Starring Rex Ingram.
Promotional booklet
poster
pressbook
pressbook
poster
Starring Woody Strode.
"Legendary rock musical showcases Sly and the Family Stone, Richie Havens, and, of course, Jimi Hendrix."
Press book; Starring Harry Belafonte. "Science-fiction film in which Belafonte is one of only three survivors of a nuclear holocaust, produced by Belafonte."
Ad pad
Starring Moses Gunn.
poster
poster
"Flyer for unproduced film serial of the 1920s featuring 15 chapters. Also features advertisements for films "Regeneration," "The Crimson Skull," "Green Eyed Monster," and "The Bull Dogger.""
Letters, reports, certificates of appointment, receipts, loans, and other documents pertaining to the Civil War and to the Lee family, and collected by Alfred and Elizabeth Brand. The Civil War Papers Series includes battle reports from Bull Run (1861), Fredericksburg, and Gettysburg; Confederate Army General Orders Nos. 9, 64, and 18; letters detailing the operation of the Confederate Army, outcomes of battles, and Confederate opinions about the Civil War and specific officers. Includes a broadside, Rally Round the Flag, Boys!; a transcription of an interview with Jefferson Davis by newspaper writer Augustus C. Buell (1876); a draft of the poem The Conquered Banner by the Rev. Abram J. Ryan (1865); two engravings (of Grant and Sherman); John H. Miller and M. French's obligation and oath of allegiance to Virginia and to the Confederate States of America (1862); and J. C. Winsmith's oath of allegiance to the USA and pardon from Andrew Johnson and William H. Seward (1865).
Writers and correspondents in this Series are primarily from Virginia (especially Berkeley County) and Kentucky. Named individuals include Pierre Gustave Tonte Beauregard, Braxton Bragg, David Holmes Conrad, Samuel Cooper, Samuel Wylie Crawford, Jefferson Davis, Ulysses S. Grant, Thomas "Stonewall" Jackson, J. E. Johnson, I. Nadenbousch, Daniel Ruggles, William T. Sherman, and Edwin M. Stanton.
The Lee Family Papers Series comprises primarily Colonial-era governmental and financial documents pertaining to Francis Lightfoot Lee, Henry Light Horse Harry Lee, and Richard Henry Lee, Sr. Documents pertain to slavery and enslaved people; maps and surveys of leased land; and loan indentures. Includes certificates appointing Francis Lightfoot Lee as Justice of the Peace (1757-1768); and a letter from Richard Henry Lee, Sr., to Henry Lee regarding the colonists' agitation for freedom (1770). Ante-bellum and Civil War documents in the Lee family papers include loan indentures; a bill of sale for cotton to the Confederate government; two cartes-de-visite (of Robert E. Lee); letters written by Richard Henry Lee, Jr., discussing the sale of his sister's slaves; and a letter from Robert Edward Lee to Samuel Cooper regarding poorly executed military orders (1865). Several documents throughout the collection include the original rare manuscripts dealer's description.
Written by Col. J.W. Allen on 1862 December 23 from headquarters of the 2nd Virginia Infantry at camp near Mosses Neck. Includes a draft and final copy.
Written by Col. J.W. Allen on 1863 July 30 from camp on road near Robinson River. Preliminary draft.
Incomplete.
On verso of Winchester report. Hanff was a private in Capt. Nadenbousch's Company D, Second Regiment of Virginia Infantry.
Beauregard requested that his ranks of officers be filled as soon as possible.
May not be related to Beauregard correspondence.
Bragg described the Perryville Campaign, Kentucky, and defended himself against other officers who were critical of his command, including General Leonidas Polk and General Hardee.
Bransford asked Brent what to do about furloughed soldiers who could not reach the armies commanded by Lee or Beauregard.
Cooper was Adjutant and Inspector General.
Regarding the deaths of Conrad's sons Holmes Addison Conrad and Henry Tudor Conrad at the first battle of Bull Run, 1861 July 21. The men were the first casualties of the Civil War from Berkeley County, VA.
Regarding the deaths of Conrad's sons. Includes envelope. Nadenbousch also spelled as Nadenbushe.
Letter details the role Crawford's command of Pennsylvania Reserves played in the Battle of Gettysburg (1863 July 1-3). Includes transcription.
Letter lists Davis' birthplace, education, and political offices.
Petition includes outlines of troop size and proposed movements. Secretary of War J. A. Letcher added comments to the petition, 1864 Jan. 16.
Seddon was former Secretary of War for the Confederacy. The letter discusses Davis' distrust of ex- General Joseph E. Johnston.
Wife of Jefferson Davis.
Includes signature. Published by C.B. Richardson.
Claim regarding bacon impressed for the use of the Confederate Army from Wm. H & J. Mathews.
Letter asks whether Jackson should accept the services in Virginia of a company of Maryland volunteers. [Includes photocopy.]
Letter regarding supplies. [Includes transcription.]
Includes the addresses of Virginia Gov. Kemper, and the Rev. Moses D. Hoge
Acknowledged and accepted the terms set forth in Major General W. T. Sherman's Special Field Order No. 65, hailing the end of the Confederacy.
Lomax asked O'Ferrall to send some of his troops as scouts to report to Lomax on the Greenville Road.
Letter describes pranks by students at Erskine College and their attitude toward the Civil War.
Regarding the activities of a Samuel Baxley, whom Seaman would like to see arrested. Enclosed in letter from [J. L. Preston] to Nadenbushe.
Referring the matter of Samuel Baxley's arrest to Nadenbushe (also written as Nadenbousch). Includes envelope.
Letter describes Olds' journey through the South as a member of Sherman's army.
Signed in print by Capt. W. C. Baskin
At Ruggles request, the Board examined Acquia Creek on the Potomac River to ascertain the best place to put a battery to secure iron, tin, and several vessels. Members of the board were Thomas H. Williamson, Major of Engineers, Va. Army; H. H. Sims, Liet., Va Navy; and Wm. H. Ker, Brigade Inspector.
Ruggles transmitted the report from the Virginia Board of Engineers with his own comments. Includes a manuscript map of Acquia Creek and the Potomac River.
Telegram requesting two thousand pounds of corn meal powder.
Telegram regarding Special Orders No. 85, paragraph nine.
Possibly the original first draft. Found among the original Lee papers. At least one line differs from the earliest printed version. Rev. Ryan was known as the poet-priest of the Confederacy.
Includes envelope.
Includes envelope.
Includes signature. Photography by Brady & Co. Engraved by William Wellstood.
Letter brings news of the capture of Richmond, VA by Federal troops and the pursuit of Jefferson Davis and the remnants of Lee's army.
Letter describes the successful recovery of an enemy-held ferry.
[Includes envelope.]
Acknowledgment refers to an oath of allegiance signed on 1865 October 31.
Authorized and [signed] by Robert Dinwiddie, Lt.-Governor and Commander-in-Chief of Virginia.
Authorized and [signed] by Francis Fauquier, Lt.-Governor and Commander-in-Chief of Virginia.
The specific trial concerns the murder of Daris Dallas. The suspects are Joe, Sam, and Pendoe, slaves belonging to George West. Authorized and [signed] by Francis Fauquier, Lt.-Governor and Commander-in-Chief of Virginia.
Authorized and [signed] by Francis Fauquier, Lt.-Governor and Commander-in-Chief of Virginia.
Authorized and [signed] by John Blair, President of his Majesty's Council and Commander-in-Chief of Virginia.
Indenture also signed by Ludwell Lee and Charles Lee.
Letter includes a manuscript map of the property around Bear Quarter Island and a copy of the location of the West Survey of Patrick Henry and George Kelly as it stands on the books.
Letter concerns land.
Letter concerns the estate of R.H. Lee's sister and the sale of her servants [slaves]. Lee writes, I feel great reluctance to separate the children from the mother and father...
Letter concerns the estate of R.H. Lee's sister and the sale of her servants [slaves]. Lee also lists the names of his children: Those of age include Mary A. Lee, Flora Lee, and Frances H. Lee. Those under age include Samuel A. Lee, Richard H. Lee, Ludwell Lee, John L. Lee, and Francis L. Lee.
Note concerns the appointment of permanent Brigade Inspectors. [Includes transcription.]
General order of surrender of the Army of Northern Virginia.
Letter concerns certain of Lee's orders in regard to correcting abuses, securing discipline and enforcement of orders [in the Department of East Tennessee and Southwestern Virginia] that Cooper failed to properly execute.
Letter in response to Miss Day's request for Robert E. Lee's autograph.
Enclosed in above letter to Miss Day.
This collection contains eight oral history interviews that author Judy Hogan conducted with Roland Alston, Sr. and ten photographs of his family. These 1990 interviews are on eight audiocassettes, and there are five versions of the transcript from 1991. Three versions are annotated with corrections for a separate typist, and versions four and five are more narrative in format as a deliverable to a Dot (Dorothy) King. Topics include Alston's employment history with Mary Duke Biddle and Mary Duke Biddle Trent Semans; growing up on a farm in Chatham County; Durham and regional businesses, especially those for gardeners; his family life; and his views on relationships between people, including employers and employees, men and women, and parents and children. The photographs are mostly studio portraits of him and/or his wife and children.
Eight original audiocassettes with the oral history interviews and five different versions of the transcript. Three versions are annotated with corrections for a separate typist and versions four and five are more narrative in format.
Recorded at 1044 West Forest Hills Boulevard (Pinecrest).
Corrected.
Version 4 omits Hogan and is more narrative; corrected.
Version 5 omits Hogan and is more narrative.
10 photographs of the Roland Alston family, almost all studio portraits.
Shacklette Studio, Durham.
High school.
High school.
Cutting the cake.
Includes some of Roland Senior's grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
Includes Stella, Joseph, and Roland Jr.
Possibly includes wife and two sons.
Possibly includes wife Rose Marie, daughter, and two grandchildren.
The Americans for Immigrant Justice (AIJ) records, formerly the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center (FIAC), span the years of 1980-2017. This collection contains extensive documentation of the events and crises surrounding asylum, deportation, detention and abuses that took place within Florida detention centers from the years 1980 to 2017, as well as documentation regarding issues of repatriation. It records the efforts of AIJ to advocate on behalf of immigrant and refugee populations, mainly in Florida, during this time. The majority of material in this collection deals with Haitians seeking asylum in the U.S., but also includes major material on Cuban and Central American refugees, then minor files on Chinese, Middle Eastern, and other immigrant populations. Many files focus on Cheryl Little's work with child refugees and detainees and their asylum claims, and on discrimination against female immigrants. Files also include material on interdiction at sea and related court documents, government immigration policy pre- and post-9/11, documentation on hunger strikes at various facilities, material related to the Haitian Boat crises, and documentation of raids on immigrant populations. The detention facilities of particular concern in this collection include Guantanamo, Krome, and Turner Guilford Knight correctional facilities, as well as Florida's county jails.
The collection contains legal documents related to the activity of AIJ, including affidavits of detainees held in Florida facilities, and other court documents, such as court pleadings and briefings; reports on facility conditions; correspondence, including correspondence between detainees and their families, letters from concerned citizens, and formal correspondence between AIJ and other organizations and officials; case studies and reports on immigration and refugee crises, and reports of abuses and conditions in Florida detention facilities; FBI interviews with detainees; related articles and speeches; restricted material, including medical records; and promotional and educational videos produced by or for AIJ, documentary footage of missions and events, and press conference and news footage.
The series in this collection include the Detention Series, the Immigrant and Refugees Series, the Restricted Series, the General Organizational Records Series, the Audiovisual Series and the Photographic Materials Series. The bulk of the material for this collection belongs to the Detention Series and the Immigrant and Refugees Series.
Acquired as part of the Human Rights Archive at Duke University.
Series contains documents related to detention facilities holding immigrant and refugee populations of interest to Florida Immigration Advocacy Center, particularly Haitian populations. The series focuses on Krome, Turner Guilford Knight, and Guantanamo detention facilities as well as county jails and other facilities holding immigrants and refugees. Many files deal with allegations of abuse and mismanagement within the facilities. Files include legal documents such as affidavits and court records and other materials such as newspaper articles, correspondence, government reports, and PR materials. Also included are files related to Haitian asylum and repatriation and materials related to Guantanamo children and child refugees. Sensitive and confidential material has been moved to the Restricted Files series. Files are arranged in approximate alphabetical order.
Subseries contains materials related to Guantanamo detention facility, particularly with regard to the Haitian population and child refugees detained at Guantanamo. The subseries includes affidavits, attorney statements, emergency action and funding requests, reports on facility conditions, correspondence, press releases and published reports.
Amnesty and Tap Tap meeting.
Air Sunshine.
When in Haiti.
Background, etc.
Beyer memo.
Karla Pearcy, 1995 Aug. 8.
Originals, etc.
U.S. Attorney General.
Guantanamo Children, Jan. 24, March 8, March 31, May 22, June 29, July 31.
Subseries contains materials related to Krome detention facility, including some material on children's asylum claims. The subseries includes affidavits, articles, correspondence, reports about facility conditions and policies, information on the hunger strike, and court cases files.
Re: Haiti issues.
A lawsuit between plaintiffs Bob Graham, the Governor of FL, and others vs the Reagan administration represented by William French Smith, US attorney general. The suit is related to conditions at Krome.
Documents regarding the case of Faiq Marrogi Kattola et al vs Janet Reno, the US Attorney General at the time. It contains primarily depositions for the case, lawsuit with multiple detention cases with migrants from various countries where the primary complaint is extended or indefinite detention, mostly at Krome but also other detention centers and county jails.
Documents regarding the case of Faiq Marrogi Kattola et al vs Janet Reno, the US Attorney General at the time. It contains primarily depositions for the case, lawsuit with multiple dentention cases with migrants from multiple countries where the primary complaint is extended or indefinite detention, mostly at Krome but also other detention centers and county jails.
Haitian complaints against Krome detention center.
Includes Krome tour, 1996 April.
Treatment of Haitian refugees.
Subseries contains materials related to Turner Guilford Knight (TGK) Correctional Center.
Subseries contains materials related to Florida county jails. The subseries mainly includes affidavits and reports on facility conditions.
Originals.
Citrus/Hornando/Manatee.
Pending.
Subseries contains materials related to general detention issues of interest to the FIAC. The subseries mainly includes documents regarding detention procedures and abuses and cases of indefinite detention.
Series contains documents related to immigrant and refugee populations of interest to FIAC, particularly Haitian populations. Files primarily deal with issues of deportation and asylum, as well as issues relating to US detention. Files include legal documents such as affidavits and court records and other materials such as newspaper articles, correspondence, government reports, and PR materials. Sensitive and confidential material has been moved to the Restricted Files series. Files are arranged in rough alphabetical order.
Subseries includes files related to AIJ's work on behalf of Cuban immigrants, most notably Elián González and the case of Campos vs INS which dealt with the naturalization process and mental and physical disabilities.
CABA vs Christopher is a major lawsuit that the set precedent for Guantanamo policy and was filed on behalf of over 30,000 Cuban refugees, aka balseros, interdicted at sea and detained at Guantanamo Naval Base. The Cuban American Bar Association filed the lawsuit against the Clinton administration represented by Warren Christopher, Secretary of State. The suit cites the refugees' rights under the Cuban Adjustment Act of 1966 and the "unsanitary, deplorable and medically inadequate detention camps" at the base.
Legal documents, news articles, and press releases related to the highly publicized case of Elián González, a Cuban child rescued at sea after losing his mother and step father in their attempt to reach Miami. His case drew wide spread public attention and debate, sparking a contensious custody battle between his father in Cuba and relatives in Miami.
Legal documents related to the class action lawsuit brought forward by Edilma Trujillo et al against US Attorney General Janet Reno and other Clinton administration and federal officials. The lawsuit covers mostly Cuban elderly and disabled naturalization applicants caught in "naturalization limbo" because their naturalization process had been unnecessarily delayed without proper notification or reasoning.
A class action lawsuit brought forward by primarily Cuban elderly, disabled, and ill immigrants denied medical exemption and fee waiver for the English requirement of their naturalization test and some were also then denied citizenship.
A class action lawsuit brought forward by primarily Cuban elderly, disabled, and ill immigrants denied medical exemption and fee waivers for the English requirement of their naturalization test and some were also then denied citizenship.
A class action lawsuit brought forward by primarily Cuban elderly, disabled, and ill immigrants denied medical exemption and fee waiver for the English requirement of their naturalization test and some were also then denied citizenship.
Subseries contains documents related primarily to issues of, and cases related to, deportation and asylum specifically within the Haitian community. Many files deal with the Haitian Boat crises of 2001 and 2002, with some focus on women and children refugees and children stranded in Haiti. Subseries also includes materials on various crises in Haiti, including the AIDs crisis and the 2011 earthquake. Files include articles, letters, asylum seeker statements, district court pleadings and briefings, documentation on hunger strikes, and court documents regarding interdiction. Included is AIJ's work on the case of Rev. Joseph Dantica.
The case of Reverend Joseph N. Dantica, the uncle of the renowned Haitian author Edwidge Danticat. She writes about her family's history and this case in a memoir entitled "Brother, I'm Dying" (2007). Joseph N. Dantica died in ICE custody at Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami, FL due to complications from cancer after being detained at Krome. He was detained for seeking asylum despite having the legal right to enter the US on an active visa. The documents available include medical records, autopsy reports, personal records, legal documents, FIAC's case against the DHS requesting his documents through FOIA, correspondence, news articles, and other communications related to the case.
FIAC v NSA is a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) suit against the NSA to release any and all documents proving that Haiti is being used as a staging ground for third country nationals that may be involved in terrorist plots, in particular Pakistanis and Palestinians. This was cited by US Attorney General Ashcroft as the reason why Haitian refugees and migrants were being discriminated against.
Contains legal files pertaining to a lawsuit by Haitian detainees against the INS and DOJ. On December 3, 2001 US Coast Guard intercepted a boat named Simapvivetzi, carrying Haitian refugees off the coast of South Florida near Biscayne National Park. The survivors were detained at Krome and other facilities. The case covers the lawsuit of a number of detainees who filed for asylum and were requesting to be released and were suing for discrimination, mistreatment, and abuse. Includes supporting documentation, statements by detainees and governmental officials, correspondence, and research for the case conducted by AIJ attorneys.
CABA vs Christopher is a major lawsuit that the set precedent for Guantanamo policy and was filed on behalf of over 30,000 Cuban refugees, aka balseros, interdicted at sea and detained at Guantanamo Naval Base. The Cuban American Bar Association filed the lawsuit against the Clinton administration represented by Warren Christopher, Secretary of State. The suit cites the refugees' rights under the Cuban Adjustment Act of 1966 and the "unsanitary, deplorable and medically inadequate detention camps" at the base. Haitian Refugee Center Inc. joined the suit as an Intervenor plaintiff on behalf of the over 6,000 Haitian refugees detained at Guantanamo and the discrimination and abuse they faced compared to Cuban refugees, including unaccompanied minors.
A screenplay by Kevin Sharpley related to the 2001 Haitian boat incidents.
News articles, correspondence, and other documentation related to US representative Kendrick B. Meek's attempts to expand on the original HRIFA bill.
Documents related to asylum seekers and TPS status, includes reports, photos, and news articles.
Files contain documents related to issues of deportation, asylum, and immigration within the US, including materials regarding the Cuban refugee population and some material regarding Eastern European refugees. Subseries particularly focuses on discrimination against female immigrants, and also gay rights in an immigrant context immigration, labor, and raids on immigrant populations. Materials primarily include case studies, articles, and court reports applicable to AIJ's work.
Documents related to an immigration scam in which undocumented immigrants were made to pay large fees for fraudulent asylum applications to Canada. The scammers operated under the name Jerusalem Haitian Community Centre.
Lawsuit of the Coalition of Florida Farm Workers vs the Federal Emergency Management Agency. COFFO was suing FEMA for their policy of refusing to provide victims of natural disasters (primarily after the 2004 hurricane season) who are not "qualified aliens" with short term non-cash aid. Includes correspondence, court documents, depositions, data, and invoices related to the case.
Documents related to the suit brought forward by Jamaican immigrant Robert A. Lettman vs Janet Reno, US Attorney General in 11th Circuit of US Appeals Court. Lettman seeks damages for unlawful deportation and the mishandling of his case. Documents include research, notes, correspondence, and other cases brought against US Attorney General Reno.
Documents related to an immigration scam in which a fake Native American nation took large sums of money from undocumented immigrants promising them legal status in the US through tribal membership. The scammers operated under the name Pembina Nation Little Shell Band of North America (or Little Shell Pembina Band). They primarily targeted the Haitian community of South Florida.
Materials in the Restricted Series have been pulled from the Detention, Immigrants and Refugees, and A/V series based on their potentially sensitive or confidential nature. Files include legal documents such as affidavits, correspondence with or about clients, medical records, and other statements and potential evidence. Access is restricted. Researchers must receive prior authorization from donor in order to access the material in this series. Please contact Rubenstein Research Services to request access.
Divided into the relevant subseries of Reports and Speeches, Correspondence, Media Coverage, and Digital Presence.
The Correspondence Subseries contains materials related to correspondence, including letters and emails between AIJ and other persons or entities both governmental and non-governmental.
The Media Coverage Subseries including documents such as news articles, press releases, information on press conferences, and a general range of media coverage related to AIJ and their interests.
A Miami New Times newspaper from the week of January 17-23, 2002. Contains a post 9/11 profile of Shaheed Mohamed, an anti-terrorist informant that was later deported, featured on the front cover.
The Reports and Speeches sub-series contains long form reports created by AIJ and related organizations on topics such as detention conditions, immigration policy, and legal services for immigrants. The sub-series also includes speeches given by AIJ staff, primarily by director Cheryl Little.
Series contains promotional/educational videos produced by or for FIAC.
Also see "Anti-Immigrant city ordinances in Florida" in the Subject Files series.
Series includes photos of Guantanamo 1994-1995, Krome 1989-1990, demonstrations and other miscellaneous photos, in black and white and in color, undated.
Includes photos of Guantanamo 1994-1995, Krome 1989-1990, demonstrations and other miscellaneous photos, undated.
Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center trip to take statements from children and adult Haitians detained at Guantanamo camps.
Family Camps 4, 5, 7; Cuban paintings; Camp #11; goodbye party, views of camps.
Repatriation of Haitian unaccompanied minors.
Photos were taken sometime between 1991-1996. These photos are related to the Ismae Lawsuit. The boat is docked with 3 Haitian stow-aways held in a cage on the docks. Also contains photos of a plane to Guantanamo in 1995.
Cheryl Little with Haitian Refugee Center, Inauguration of Aristide.
Primarily staff on-site.
Series contains AIJ's research and advocacy files on diverse immigration issues such as immigration related legislation, detention and asylum, DACA and Dreamers, law enforcement, human trafficking, scams and exploitation of immigrants. Documents include research files, correspondence, studies, testimony, press and media, educational materials, and FOIA documents.
Advocacy and research documents related to a series of proposed city ordinances promoted by anti-immigrant groups. The ordinances aimed to target employers of undocumented immigrants. Files related primarily to the proposed ordinances in Palm Bay, FL and Avon Park, FL. Also see video, "Palm Bay City Council Meeting," RL00035-VHS-0003, in the Audiovisual Materials series.
Includes meeting minutes, memos, correspondence, newspaper clippings, agendas, questionares, opposition research, and other documents on efforts against Prop 187 type legislation or referendums in the state of Florida that sought to block access to medical care and education for undocumented immigrants. There are a number of documents related to Citizens for Florida, the coalition formed to oppose Proposition 187 in FL.
The case of "Baby Margaret", an 18 month old infant brought from Jamaica to the US, stateless and unidentifed, later deported once her identity was confirmed. The case serves as an example of the need for legal representation for unaccompanied minors.
Documents containing information on opposition to the proposed CLEAR Act that would authorize and incentivize local police forces to detain undocumented immigrants and seize their assets.
A Jamaican detainee suing for abuses he suffered while in detention in Louisiana.
Folder named Kids in detention.
Contains documents related to the DREAM Act, DACA recipients, advocacy and legislation affecting DACA recipients aka Dreamers.
The case of a US citizen detained and sedated against her will under the suspicion of being an migrant drug mule due to her recent travels to the Dominican Republic. Medical procedures were performed on her against her will and she was not informed that she had been sedated, the aftereffects of which caused her to be involved in a car accident on her way back home.
FOIA requests submitted by AIJ related to various cases such as conditions in a Monroe County Jail detention center in Key West, FL, Haitian TPS status, Krome riots, and guidelines for the release of Florida public records.
Opposition to the DHS policy ordering the mandatory detention of asylum seekers from over 34 countries.
Information on raids conducted against Florida airport workers that were allegedly using false documents.
Secure Communities was a program allowing law enforcement and ICE to collaborate using biometric and other identifying technology to locate and aprehend criminal aliens and deport them.
Notes on US citizens unlawfully detained due to racial profiling and assumptions they are undocumented. Includes the case of a US citizen of Mexican descent born in the US to US born parents.
Duke's collection of American song sheets includes around 1,982 of these ephemeral productions, from The Star Spangled Banner to Pop Goes the Weasel, forming a rich source for research on American society and culture. The American South and the Civil War era are especially well documented, including well over one hundred Confederate broadsides. The collection also includes carrier's addresses, non-musical poetry, and other ephemeral verse. Publishers represented in the collection include: J. Andrews, A. W. Auner, Bell and Company, James D. Gray, Johnson and Company, Charles Magnus, H. de Marsan, T. M. Scroggy, St. Clair Smith, John T. Thorne, H. J. Wehman, J. Wrigley, and others.
Note that some song sheets are housed in the Confederate Pamphlet collection and the Broadsides collection.
Chiefly song sheets documenting the Civil War and the American South. Some song sheets have been cataloged individually. Digitized song sheets are numbered
Addition contains 212 Civil War and Reconstruction era song sheets published by prominent song sheet publishers of the period such as J. Andrews, A. W. Auner, Bell and Company, James D. Gray, Johnson and Company, Charles Magnus, H. de Marsan, T. M. Scroggy, St. Clair Smith, John T. Thorne, H. J. Wehman, and J. Wrigley. Song sheets in this addition have not been digitized.
Rare early (first?) version of a popular American drinking song, in which Adam and Eve appear as the first tipplers, "and ever since then, all manner of men/ The lame, the blind, and the mute/ Our bankers and clerks, politicians and turks/ Drink the juice of the Forbidden Fruit." This chorus is followed by a litany of public figures who imbibe, including Edwin Booth, [Henry Ward] Beecher, President Arthur, Frank James, Bob Ford, Oscar Wild[e], General Grant, Roscoe Conkling, and [James G.] Blaine. The names varied over time, but the song remained in circulation for many decades and was recorded by folklorist Alan Lomax in the 1950s. Lomax identified it as originating in the Ozarks, but by the turn of the century the song was sufficiently widespread to make an appearance in Jack London's story "The Man on the Trail, A Klondike Christmas," published in the Overland Monthly in January 1899.
Song sheets in this series are housed in the Confederate Pamphlets collection. Call numbers are listed.
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 95
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 96
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 97
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 98
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 99
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 100
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 101
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 102
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 103
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 104
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 105
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 106
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 107
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 109
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 117
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 118
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 119
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 120
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 121
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 122
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 123
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 125
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 129
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 130
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 131
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 133
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 134
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 141
Call Number: Conf Pam qo # 142
Call Number: Conf Pam q # 757
Call Number: Conf Pam # 732
Call Number: Conf Pam # 733
Call Number: Conf Pam # 734
Call Number: Conf Pam # 735
Call Number: Conf Pam # 736
Call Number: Conf Pam # 737
Call Number: Conf Pam # 738
Call Number: Conf Pam # 739
Call Number: Conf Pam # 740
Call Number: Conf Pam # 741
Call Number: Conf Pam # 742
Call Number: Conf Pam # 743
Call Number: Conf Pam # 744
Call Number: Conf Pam # 745
Call Number: Conf Pam # 746
Call Number: Conf Pam # 747
Call Number: Conf Pam # 767
Call Number: Conf Pam # 768
Call Number: Conf Pam # 769
Call Number: Conf Pam # 770
Call Number: Conf Pam # 771
Call Number: Conf Pam # 773
Call Number: Conf Pam # 774
Call Number: Conf Pam # 775
Call Number: Conf Pam # 777
Call Number: Conf Pam # 778
Call Number: Conf Pam # 779
Call Number: Conf Pam # 780
Call Number: Conf Pam # 782
Call Number: Conf Pam # 783
Call Number: Conf Pam # 784
Call Number: Conf Pam # 785
Call Number: Conf Pam # 786
Call Number: Conf Pam # 787
Call Number: Conf Pam # 814
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 803
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 804
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 805
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 806
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 807
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 808
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 809
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 810
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 811
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 812
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 813
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 814
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 815
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 816
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 817
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 818
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 819
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 840
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 841
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 842
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 843
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 844
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 845
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 846
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 847
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 848
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 853
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 854
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 855
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 856
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 857
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 860
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 861
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 862
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 863
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 864
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 865
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 866
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 867
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 868
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 870
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 871
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 874
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 875
Call Number: Conf Pam 12 mo # 932
Song sheets in this series are housed in the Broadsides Collection. Call numbers are listed.
Call Number: Brdside Case LA1
Call Number: Brdside Case LA1
Call Number: Brdside Case LA1
Call Number: Brdside Case LA1
Call Number: Brdside Case LA1
Call Number: Brdside Case LA1
Call Number: Brdside Case LA1
Call Number: Brdside Case LA1
Call Number: Brdside Case LA1
Call Number: Brdside Case LA1
Call Number: E Pam ff#80
Call Number: Conf. Broadside F-58
Call Number: Conf. Broadside F-59
Call Number: Conf. Broadside F-60
Call Number: Conf. Broadside F-61
Call Number: Conf. Broadside F-62
Call Number: Conf. Broadside F-63
Call Number: Conf. Broadside F-69
Call Number: Conf. Broadside F-73
Call Number: Conf. Broadside F-74
Call Number: Conf. Broadside F-75
Call Number: Conf. Broadside F-76
Call Number: Conf. Broadside F-77
Call Number: Conf. Broadside F-78
Call Number: Conf. Broadside F-79
Call Number: Conf. Broadside F-83
Call Number: Broadside F-405
Call Number: Broadside D-75
The diary, begun on April 6, 1878, and ending on Nov. 9, 1878 in Augsburg, covers the travels of an American woman through England, France, Germany, Sweden, Norway, and Russia. Included are descriptions of visits to museums and royal palaces. While in Norway, the author met and spent time with Gen. and Mrs. Ulysses S. Grant. Formerly known as Anonymous diary, 1878.
Collection houses archives of the American Society of Papyrologists, including the Society's constitution, financial papers, correspondence, Director's Office files, memoranda, and other administrative files, spanning the years 1977-1993. Collection has been given basic processing: items are in original order as received.
Collection comprises seven letters from Susan B. Anthony to various correspondents, one postcard written to her, a printed item, and a letter by S. J. S. Holden that mentions Anthony, Stanton, and the 1874 National Woman Suffrage Association (N.W.S.A.) convention. In June 1870, Anthony wrote two letters to Edwin A. Studwell, who became her business manager, regarding payment for lectures in which she participated with Elizabeth Cady Stanton; her need to sell her serial, The Revolution, and plans for its continued success; competition with suffragists in Boston; her life insurance policies; and her general need for ready funds. There is also a Dec. 1873 letter from Anthony to Judge Henry R. Selden requesting copy for his argument made on Anthony's behalf regarding the Rights of Women in the U.S. District Court of New York, to be published in time for the upcoming N.W.S.A. convention. The postscript to this letter was written upon a flyer for a mass meeting of the New York Woman's Suffrage Society. Collection includes a copy of the final, printed version of Selden's argument, "Rights of women under the late constitutional amendments."
In 1894, Anthony wrote two letters to a suffragist concerning problems in Kansas; she wished to identify the Republican, Progressive, or other person responsible for "stirring things up," for the Republicans failed to include suffrage in their platform. On 1900 April 24, Anthony wrote to Rachel [Foster Avery?] regarding several publications in process, including forms for letters to the national conventions of the prohibition, Populist, Democratic, and Republican parties; a "memorial;" an appeal to the Ecumenical Council; along with other work to be shared by the suffrage leadership. A letter from Anthony 1900 July 22 was written to an unnamed suffragist who likely requested an autograph, "Yes indeed--you shall have my pen tracks--not only--but also my wish that you both believe in work for the protection of women in the crowning right of citizenship--the right to vote--and so help to hasten the day when ours shall be a true republic in practice as it now is in theory."
Collection also includes a postcard written to Anthony from Mary L. Lathrop in Jackson, [Miss.?] in 1874 regarding Lathrop's inability to send more money following Anthony's successful speaking engagement there; the money went toward advertising for the event. Another letter, from S. J. S. Holden to Rachel [Foster Avery?], in 1874 describes attendance at the N.W.S.A. convention, the speeches of Anthony and Elizabeth Cay Stanton, and other pastimes in Washington, D.C. Several of the letters in the collection are written on N.W.S.A. or National-American Woman Suffrage Association letterhead; Anthony's 1894 letters are stamped with the ownership mark of the Daughters of the Pioneers of Washington library. Collection includes dealer transcriptions for two of Anthony's letters.
Video recording consists of a slide show of still images chiefly taken at annual meetings of the American Ophthalmological Society, most of which were and still are held at The Homestead resort in Hot Springs, Virginia. Though the series begins with historical images, the first of which is a panoramic print of the 1919 conference attendees, most date from the 1950s through 1993. Subjects typically include scenes from the meetings, candid portraits of individuals attending the meeting and enjoying recreational activities, and the locations and grounds where the meetings were held. A credit screen gives the name M. N. Luxenberg, who is almost certainly Malcom (Mike) N. Luxenberg, an opthalmologist in Augusta, Georgia, Past President of AOS, and Professor and Chair for Ophthalmology for Augusta University. Aquired as part of the History of Medicine Collections at Duke University.
The Anne Baker papers contains documentation of Baker's personal life and of her professional role as the Director of Counseling at the Hope Clinic of Granite City, Illinois. They include materials from workshops and trainings she gave, secondary literature about abortion counseling, correspondence, materials from different protests that she and other Hope Clinic staff attended, personal notes, histories of the Hope Clinic, and newspaper clippings from the kidnapping of Dr. Hector Zevallos and his wife Jean Rosalie Zevallos.
Manuscript journal written in 25 annual vols. of Lett's Diary. In the early volumes, Baker lived in Bayswater, England, and was a partner in a firm in the Colonial Commission trade. He wrote of attending plays, concerts, and sporting events. He spent much of his time working among boys and young men at the West London Youths Institute. Although married with children, he wrote of his great affection for boys, and sometimes mentioned taking them home and sleeping with them. He described marital discord caused by his wife's "cold" treatment of particular boys. In 1875, his wife left him.
Entries also document his financial difficulties, which necessitated his borrowing large sums of money and which culminated in bankruptcy in 1875. He attempted to open a school in 1877, but had few students due to "terrible scandals," which he attributed to his wife. By 1875, he had been ordained into the Church of England, and the later volumes describe his life as a curate in various parishes. In 1902, he signed on as chaplain on the S.S. Macquerie on a 3-month voyage to Australia, but left the ship in Melbourne with the atheist Captain angry at him. At the end of the last journal, he was living in his home town of Derby.
Papers of Henry D. Baker (1873-1939), U.S. consular official and newspaper editor and publisher, contain correspondence, clippings, genealogy, printed material, pictures, and volumes. The bulk of the papers before 1900 refer to the Griffiths, Speir, Willis and Austin families of England and Australia, related through Baker's wife, Gwyneth Griffiths. They concern family matters, and the service of Charles Ralph Griffiths (1790-1850) as British vice consul and consul at Buenos Aires, 1823-1846. Material after 1900 relates to the consular career of Henry Baker in Tasmania, 1907-1911, Bombay, 1913-1914, and Trinidad, 1916-1927; Baker's service as commercial attache at Petrograd, Russia; and his opposition to trade with Russia, 1930-1931. Tasmanian Scrapbook, 1907-1911, includes clippings, photographs, and pictures relating to Tasmania, Australia, New Zealand, and the islands of the Bass Straits. Scrapbook, 1911-1933, contains pamphlets, articles, speeches, pictures, clippings and letters concerning relations with Russia during World War I and in 1930-1931, and Baker's activities in the United States, Trinidad, Tasmania, India, and New Zealand. There are also printed copies of books by Baker and by Charles H. Baker; family photographs and copies of portraits, especially from the Griffiths family; photographs of Trinidad and Baker's trip to Persia, 1916; and photographs of "Erryd," Victorian home of the Griffiths in Wales. Printed material consists of speeches, articles and pamphlets by and about Baker. The clippings, 1910-1951, include articles by and about Baker and items about the countries in which he served. An extensive genealogical folder contains information about the Baker and Dunster families of America and the Griffiths, Speir, Willis, Hart, and Blondeau families of England and Australia.
Collection comprises 23 color photographs (4"x6") of Bamako, Mali, sent to Helene Baumann by a friend in 2002, accompanied by a letter containing descriptive information for each photograph. Baumann was librarian for African and Western European Studies at Duke University, 1988-2006. Includes images of housing conditions; markets, public spaces, monuments, and buildings; and soccer matches.
Collection consists of a single piece of paper (20 x 12.5 cm) with an autograph manuscript poem by Anna Letitia Barbauld on the front and a poem called "Follow Me" by William Allen on the back. Barbauld's poem reads as follows: Born to the weighty honours of a name/Whose deeds of mercy England's shores proclaim/Yet know, you may inherit lands or pelf/But must, for praise - for love, be good yourself. It's signed A.L. Barbauld and dated August 23rd 1823. The verso contains a two-stanza autograph manuscript devotional poem by William Allen titled "Follow Me." It is signed Stoke Newington 30 of 8th month 1823. Barbauld and Allen were both educators and abolitionists who lived in Stoke Newington at the time of this writing. These poems are evidence that they had at least an epistolary friendship.
The Bates Worldwide, Inc. (Bates) Records span the years 1934-2003 and include correspondence, corporate policy manuals, photographs, publications, graphic designs, print advertisements, electronic records and videocassettes that document the activities of this major global advertising agency over the course of its corporate life. Bates began as a simple proprietorship, but as the company grew its organizational structure took on different forms: a partnership, then a corporation before becoming a publicly traded transnational entity, and finally becoming a subsidiary in a global holding company. From the 1970s on, Bates' growth and international expansion was fueled by a long series of mergers, partnerships and acquisitions that continued until the company was itself acquired, first by Saatchi & Saatchi and later by the WPP Group. Materials in the collection relate to Bates' permutations into a variety of corporate entities, including Ted Bates & Co., Ted Bates, Inc., Backer Spielvogel Bates, and Bates Worldwide, Inc., along with its subsidiaries (such as Campbell-Mithun and Kobs and Draft) and parent organizations (Cordiant Communications Group, Saatchi & Saatchi). Thus, the collection provides a window into the larger corporate culture of mergers, consolidations, acquisitions and takeovers that led to the formation of giant transnational advertising conglomerates and marked a profound shift in the landscape of the advertising industry during the late 20th century.
Bates built its early reputation as an advertising agency with a particular talent for promoting pharmaceutical products (Carter's Pills, Anacin analgesics) and common household goods (Mars candies, Wonder bread, Palmolive soap, Colgate dental cream). Advertising policies developed around a philosophy Bates called the Unique Selling Proposition (USP), which informed an imperative to identify and promote a single, unique and compelling reason for consumers to use any given product or service. As the company grew into a global business, USP evolved into more complex forms, including the Bates Brand Wheel. Major clients include Brown & Williamson Tobacco Co., Carter-Wallace Corporation, Colgate-Palmolive Company, Hyundai America, the Joint Recruiting Advertising Program of the combined U.S. Armed Services, M&M/Mars Inc., Miller Brewing Company, Pfizer, the U.S. Navy and Wendy's International. There is also some information on the company's founder, Ted Bates, as well as on Rosser Reeves, Bates' first copy writer and the chief architect of the USP concept.
The collection is organized into ten series and one cumulative subject index--Client Files, Corporate Communications Department, Creative Department, Financial Records, Human Resources Department, Memorabilia, New Business, Print Books, Vertical Files and Audiovisual Materials. The Client Files Series includes research reports, storyboards and graphic designs for Bates' clients. The Corporate Communications Department Series includes company-wide memoranda, public relations policy manuals, and a large file of biographical sketches and photographs of Bates' executives, as well as news clippings and press releases relating to the company and its clients. The Creative Department Series primarily focuses on Bates' efforts to stimulate creativity throughout its worldwide offices through participation in internal and industry-wide advertising competitions. The Financial Records Series includes general ledgers and other accounting reports. The Human Resources Department Series includes employee benefits literature and information on company affairs including press releases and staff memoranda. The Memorabilia Series includes promotional clothing, games, office posters and awards. The New Business Series includes materials relating to requests for proposals from prospective clients. The Print Books Series contains material from over 100 albums of proof sheets and print advertisements from existing clients. The Vertical Files Series consists of an alphabetical file of general information collected to aid in various aspects of company operations. The Audiovisual Materials Series contains periodic review collections of advertising, video memoranda, speeches, retirement presentations and highlight compilations prepared for prospective clients and award show consideration. A Subject Cross-Reference Index at the end of the finding aid links materials pertaining to specific clients, corporations, events and policies scattered throughout the various subject series.
Some materials were received as electronic files. Disks were assigned consecutive numbers reflecting the order in which they were encountered. If a work has a corresponding or associated electronic file, the file is included in the container list. The contents of each disk have been migrated to the Special Collections server. Consequently, the contents of these disks are available only in correspondingly numbered electronic subdirectories. Consult a reference archivist for access to the electronic files. Contains correspondence, reports, clippings, artwork, storyboards, print advertisements and other printed materials for Bates' clients from 1969 to 2002. Major clients represented in this series include Brown & Williamson (Kool, Lucky Strike cigarettes), Burroughs-Wellcome (Zovirax), Carter-Wallace (Arrid, Pearl Drops toothpaste, Trojan condoms), Hyundai America, Joint Recruiting Advertising Program (JRAP), Miller Brewing Co., Paddington Corporation (Bailey's Irish Cream, J&B whiskey), Peace Corps, Pfizer (Visine), the U.S. Navy, and Warner-Lambert. The extent of materials varies among the clients. In some cases, the series includes only artwork related to advertising campaigns, proof sheets of print advertisements, or correspondence. Holdings are more extensive for other clients, and includes broadcast placement schedules, account expenditure audits, and market research studies. Print advertising for many of these clients have been maintained separately in bound volumes and may be found in the Print Books Series. The series begins with a general files section that includes materials relevant to overall client relations and an archived, numbered set of dismantled storyboards for numerous clients. Thereafter, the series is arranged alphabetically by client name.
Some materials were received as electronic files. Disks were assigned consecutive numbers reflecting the order in which they were encountered. If a work has a corresponding or associated electronic file, the file is included in the container list. The contents of each disk have been migrated to the electronic records server. Consequently, the contents of these disks are available only in correspondingly numbered electronic subdirectories. Consult a reference archivist for access to the electronic files.
Audiovisual materials have been removed to the Audiovisual Materials Series. Originals are closed to use. Technical Services staff need to produce use copies before contents can be accessed. Please consult with Research Services staff before requesting audiovisual materials.
Includes Aalborg Extra, 1992; A&E Products, undated; Ad Council--Federal Voting Assistance Program (Y2Vote.org), 2000; Allied Domecq (Sauza), 2000-2001; Avis Rent-a-Car, 1992; Bates Worldwide, 1995; BSB/Bates South Africa, 1992; Carter-Wallace (Arrid XX, Trojan), 1995; Cityview Apartment Homes, undated; Comet Rice, undated; Electrolux, 1992; Energizer, 1992; Estée Lauder, 2001; H.J. Heinz, undated; Internet Security Systems, undated; JRAP, 1998; Lubriderm (Pfizer), 1992; M&M/Mars, 1989; Mandarin Oriental Hotels, 1992; Midtown Golf, 1991; Murata Electronics, undated; Myanmar Brewery, undated; Neosporin (Warner-Lambert), 2002; Old Forester, 1992; Oronite (Chevron Texaco), 2002; Precision Drilling, 2001; Pró Juréia, 1992; St. Luke's/Texas Heart Institute, 2002; Shell Oil Company, undated; Stuyvesant Lights (Scholz and Friends), 1992; Telecom Malaysia, 1992; Thomas' English Muffins, undated; United Jewish Appeal-Federation (dinner to honor Max Dane), 1991; Wendy's, 2001-2002; Westvaco, 2002; Whitney Museum of American Art, 2000.
Poster removed to Box CL15.
Poster removed to Box CL15.
Poster removed to Box CL15.
From Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Chile, Spain and Venezuela campaigns.
Disk contains logos of a black and white logo of a unicorn, a barcode, and a chemical symbol for acyclovir.
Disk contains logos of a black and white logo of a unicorn, a barcode, and a chemical symbol for acyclovir.
Includes Actifed, Certs, Filteray, and Zovirax.
Disk contains a Continental Insurance interactive program, and the installer file for the program.
Focuses on 15-24 year-old African-American youth sector.
Disk contains two sets of Mentadent video stills.
Disk contains a video file.
Including Trade,Trojan Man, and Variety.
Including Trade,Trojan Man, and Variety.
Agency review of a major study of American sexual attitudes and habits undertaken by the University of Chicago.
Disk contains 1 color and 2 black and white logos for Berlitz #1 Top Rated Ships 1998
Includes Lady Footlocker, Kids Footlocker.
Disk contains two logos entitled NBA, and Allstar Weekend.
Disk contains three logos for NBA on TNT.
Disk contains various National Football League and Nike logos.
Disk contains various '97 NFL Experience logos.
Disk contains two black and white photos entitled Mrs. Stern and 3 Beauties.
Disk contains a Nike logo.
Includes One Less Thing to Worry About and O.J. Simpson Superstar campaigns.
Disk contains a program entitled Hyundai 2002 Catalog and supporting files
Disk contains one untitled audio file
Includes work performed by Grey Advertising.
Includes work performed by Grey Advertising.
Empty folders with radio station, sports team logos displayed on covers.
Background articles on Peace Corps Director Chao.
Disk contains two video files
Advertising concepts proposed and sketched but never approved for production.
See also listing under Pfizer in this series.
Marketing study for a sports gum concept, undertaken for Warner-Lambert by the Erinwoods Consulting Group.
Marketing study of biodegradable gum products, undertaken for Warner-Lambert by BAI International.
Includes work performed by McCaffrey and McCall agency.
Corporate reports, correspondence and memoranda, press releases, news clippings, general office files and photographs that originated in or were maintained by Bates Corporate Communications Department. The series dates between 1940-2003 and primarily documents the corporate public relations, news events and publicity activities of Bates offices, personnel and clients. The materials contained in the series thus record mainly newsworthy events, as opposed to daily operations--client relationships and advertising campaigns rather than account management specifics, or, promotion announcements rather than personnel employment records. Other files reflect materials in general distribution throughout the corporation. Some of the material contained in the series, primarily news clippings, originated in the corporate Information Center. The series is organized into seven subseries--General Office Files, Clients, Media, Meetings, Mergers and Acquisitions, Offices, and People--and arranged alphabetically therein.
Some materials were received as electronic files. Disks were assigned consecutive numbers reflecting the order in which they were encountered. If a work has a corresponding or associated electronic file, the file is included in the container list. The contents of each disk have been migrated to the electronic records server. Consequently, the contents of these disks are available only in correspondingly numbered electronic subdirectories. Consult a reference archivist for access to the electronic files.
Correspondence, printed materials, articles, clippings, and photographs that pertain to general departmental administration. Key topics include branding and brand management, corporate contributions and memberships, library/knowledge management, public relations, recruitment and research. Arranged alphabetically.
Disk contains two Word documents sign-in sheets, two Word Notification forms, and an Excel sign-in spreadsheet
Includes company finance manual.
Disk contains program entitled IAA Membership Directory and supporting files
For more information on creative activities, see the Creative Department Series.
Disk 1 of 3. Contains 100 folders for different clients each containing Word, Powerpoint, and Excel documents
Disk 2 of 3. Contains 100 folders for different clients each containing Word, Powerpoint, and Excel documents
Disk 3 of 3. Contains 70 folders for different clients each containing Word, Powerpoint, and Excel documents
Listing of commercial spot reels held by Bates corporate library, organized by country of origin, format and whether entered into a competitive event.
Includes distribution lists for news releases.
Analysis of physical beauty and non-physical characteristics (individuality, power, confidence, et cetera).
Disk contains one Powerpoint document entitled Present and one Word document entitled Speech
Clippings, correspondence, articles, campaign information and news releases. Chief clients include the Ad Council, Avis, Bestfoods (CPC International), British American Tobacco Company, Burroughs-Wellcome Company, Campbell's Soup Company, Carter-Wallace, EDS, Hyundai, the Joint Recruiting Advertising Program, Miller Brewing Company, Warner-Lambert, Wendy's International and the Whitney Museum of American Art. For more information on Bates' clients and client accounts, see the Clients Series. Arranged alphabetically.
Disk contains a video still entitled Beeper1
Disk contains a video still entitled Beeper2
Disk contains a video still entitled Beeper3
Disk contains a video still entitled Beeper4
Disk contains a video still entitled Hotline1
Disk contains a video still entitled Hotline2
Disk contains a video still entitled Hotline3
Disk contains a video still entitled Hotline4
See also CPC International below.
Disk entitled Debbie DeBain: Schicchitana
See also Bestfoods, Inc. above.
Correspondence regarding loss of account.
Reports, clippings, correspondence, and printed materials that document Corporate Communications' task of staying abreast of what was said about Bates, its clients and key executives in the news and trade press. While the subseries does include some information on media as an advertising resource (media buying manuals, a media glossary, etc.), the bulk of the subseries consists of a long run of weekly news clipping files, Today's Press, which were produced by the Corporate Communications Department and distributed to key executives. Organized into four categories--general files, commercial publications, corporate publications, and Today's Press. Arranged alphabetically except for Today's Press, which is arranged chronologically.
Feature on Backer Spielvogel Bates (BSB) Europe.
From a binder entitled Bates in the News.
Includes folder 6 of 6, removed from Box CC115.
Presentations, speeches, photographs, and correspondence relating to corporate and industry-wide meetings--including the American Advertising Federation luncheons, the Pan-American CEO Institute Roundtable, the Conference Board West Coast Marketing Symposium, and Bates' own Worldwide Management Meetings. The American Advertising Federation luncheons honored two Bates executives (Rosser Reeves in 1994, William Backer in 1996) who were inducted into their Advertising Hall of Fame. Two meetings, the Pan-American CEO Institute Roundtable and the Conference Board West Coast Marketing Symposium, both held in 1992, discussed the implications the newly enacted North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). The two Worldwide Management Meetings reconsidered Bates' corporate brand identity as a global advertising agency. The 1996 meeting, in particular, focused on creative aspects of advertising and inaugurated the internal Best of Bates competitions. (For more on this competition, see the Creative Department Series). Arranged alphabetically.
Rosser Reeves inducted 1994; William Backer inducted 1996.
Impact of NAFTA on marketing.
Discussion of NAFTA impact.
Disk contain three powerpoint documents
Correspondence, memoranda, news clippings and agreements relating to Bates interest in, investigations and pursuit of other corporations. Included is material on the Saatchi & Saatchi takeover of Bates, Bates' merger with Backer and Spielvogel, and the demerger of the Cordiant Communications Group. Arranged alphabetically by corporate entity.
Clippings, correspondence, photographs and printed materials relating to Bates' regional and international offices, as well as Bates subsidiaries. Organized into three categories--Headquarters, International Offices and North American Offices--and alphabetically therein.
Clippings, press releases, photographs, biographical sketches, writings, speeches and presentations relating primarily to Bates executives, but also includes files on key corporate leaders and other prominent people. There are no employment-related materials present apart from publicly released notices of appointments and promotions, and biographical materials gathered for use in public releases and internal newsletter items. Organized alphabetically.
Includes notice of promotion to Senior Vice President.
Includes notice of promotion to Executive Vice President.
CEO of Proctor and Gamble.
Includes notice of appointment as President and CEO of Bates Canada.
Bates Europe.
See related materials in file for Jim McKennan.
Bates New Zealand.
Disk contains program file entitled 1 To 1 and supporting files
Speech given at various IAA functions.
Includes notice of promotion to Senior Vice President and Creative Director, Bates USA.
Vice President, 141 Interactive.
See related material in files for Frank Assumma.
Includes notice of promotion to New Business Director for Bates Europe.
Includes notice of appointment as Chief Finance Officer, Bates North America.
Includes notice of promotion to Regional Managing Director of Bates Latin America.
Includes notice of promotion to Executive Vice President, Director of New Media and New Technologies, Bates North America.
Zenith Media.
Includes notice of promotion to Senior Vice President, Creative Manager for Bates USA.
Vice President, Director of Client Services, Bates Promotion Group, Bates USA.
Vice President, Editorial Director, Corporate Communications, Bates USA.
Concerns Rosser Reeves Papers at the State Historical Society of Wisconsin.
Includes notice of appointment as CEO of 141 Europe.
Includes notice of promotion to Executive Vice President, Bates USA.
Executive Vice President, Group Account Director, Bates USA West.
Includes notice of promotion to Senior Vice President and Management Representative.
In 1994, Backer Spielvogel Bates renamed itself Bates Worldwide and embarked on a project to create a new corporate brand identity as a global advertising agency. The new branding emphasized the creative aspects of advertising. It was a way of reinvigorating the concept of the Unique Selling Proposition (USP), Bates's traditional advertising philosophy--every successful product inherently contained a unique or compelling idea (or proposition) that made the product attractive to consumers, and successful advertising identified that unique idea and linked it to a consumer's life needs. This project led to the creation of a Global Creative Board and inaugurated an annual internal creative competition known variously as Best of Bates or Bates's Best, the first awards for which were given during the Worldwide Management Meeting in 1996. The Creative Department was charged with coordinating this yearly competition and helped in the selection of entries for various industry-wide awards competitions.
The Creative Department Series includes entry forms, memoranda, print advertisement proofs and photocopies, slides and printed material. The series dates between 1980s-2003, but most of the materials date from 1997-2002 and document the Creative Department's coordination of internal and external awards competitions, in particular the annual Best of Bates program. It includes a significant portion of international advertisements; however, the files do not represent the total output of Bates Worldwide offices. Rather, they reflect what Bates's various international offices considered their best work for the period covered herein. They provide a glimpse into some of Bates's international campaigns and creative output for clients such as Arnott's department store (Ireland), Audi/Volkswagen, Caltex, Camel cigarettes, Heineken, Le Meridien hotels, Land Rover, Nokia cellular phones, Pfizer, Royal Mail of Australia, Seat automobiles, and Thames bottled water. Many of the submission forms (some are still attached to the submitted item) for these competitive entries include a description of the USP that informed the advertisement's design. In addition, the series contains general files pertaining to other Creative Department operations and activities.
The series is organized into three subseries--Creative Binders, Print Advertisements and Office Files--that reflect the various formats of materials in the series. Both the Creative Binders Subseries and the Print Advertisements Subseries contain examples of advertisements entered into competitive events, which are present in varying formats--slides, proofs, tear sheets, and photocopies. There is some redundancy to the container list: because of the various formats it was not feasible to house all materials pertaining to a specific client together. Thus, portions of the container list repeat client names.
Consists of materials maintained in binders by the Creative Department, primarily entry forms and slides of entries, winners for the Best of Bates and Cannes competitions, as well as other examples of Bates's advertisements. Arranged alphabetically by competition event, chronologically therein, and then alphabetically by event category.
Proof sheets and photocopies of print advertisements entered into company-wide Best of Bates competitions. Most are in color, many are large-format and several are mounted on foamboard for presentation purposes. Specific clients listed below have more than two images present; many other clients are represented in the collection by a single image, but are not listed by name. International offices are heavily represented in this subseries, but the materials present only reflect a portion of the actual output of Bates global operations. For a more comprehensive collection of Bates's domestic output, see the Print Books Series. For ease of access, the subseries is organized into two lists--chronological and alphabetical.
Arranged by year, therein alphabetically by category and client name.
Includes ACP Gourmet Traveller, Audi, British American Tobacco, Bryggentoveningen, Bryggerigruppen, Carrier, Child Relief and You, Clorets, Consejo Publicitario Argentino, DHL, Discovery Channel/Animal Planet, Deutsche Bank, EDS, Energy Australia, ESPN, Farmindustria, Gentleman magazine, Höganäs Keramik, House of Prince, Jaguar, Just Diamond.
Includes Mercedes Benz, Nokia, NZ Cheese, Pripps Breweries, Provident Financial Services, RCI, Seat, Smithkline Beacham, Spectrum United, Stora, Suntours, Toyota, Vala Shopping Mall
Includes Bates Poland, Bates Ukraine, British American Tobacco, Gaz Metropolitain, Heinz
Includes BAT Romania/Viceroy, Hamilton Island, Ikea, Inchape, Pearl & Dean, Peugeot, Pfizer, Photonica, Suntours
Includes Aksjon 2000/Y2K Problem, Amnesty International, Brazilian Transplant Association, Cancer Foundation of Western Australia
Includes Millennium Foundation, Organ Donation Center of Thailand, Project Hope China, Rumsmiddeldirektoratet, Unicef
Includes Cutty Sark, Discovery Channel, Frankfurter Allgemeine, Loto/Moët, Nokia
Includes Araldite adhesives, Arnott's, Art Perform, Audi, Ballantine/Sauza, Bates Latin America, Boda Nova, Bose, Caltex, Camel cigarettes, Carter-Horner, Centenary Institute, Crown lager, Danish Distillers, Danish Rail, Electric Art, ETA barbeque sauce, Groupom, Hindustani Lever, India tourism.
Includes Jockey, Just Diamond, Land Rover, McIlhenny-Tabasco, Mercedes Benz, New Moment Design, Pripp's Breweries, Provident Bank, Rover, Safeway, SAP.com, 77th St. Streetwear, Superdrug, Tennis Canada, USM Modular Furniture, Zanussi
Includes Kaiser beer, Land Rover, Volkswagen, Whitney Museum
Includes Caltex, Kaiser beer, Nokia, Royal Mail
Includes Mercedes Benz, Nokia, Rover, Royal Mail
Includes Airtime/TV3, Camel, Corona beer, ESPN, Rover, Schwarzkopf.
Includes advertisements for Audi, Caltex, Cancer Foundation of Western Australia, Cystic Fibrosis, Millennium Foundation, Friends of the Earth, Ikea, Mova Regional, Royal Mail, Varma
Includes Ansett Australia, Arnott's, Audi, Autotelegraaf, BoardIt.com, Bridgestone, Buick, Caltex, Camel cigarettes, CricketNext.com, Datex, Earth's Choice, EnBW Energy, Forbes, Foster's, Heineken, International SOS, Ivey School of Business, Just Diamond, Just Gold
Exclusively Kahlua
Includes Kahlua, Land Rover, Le Meridien, Mercedes Benz.
Exclusively Nokia
Includes Once, PacSun, Pripp's Breweries, Revista Negocios, Rover, Royal Mail, Sony, Spectranet, Sydney 2000 Apparel, Thames water, Toyota, Villacher, Wahindia.com, Warner Lambert India, Wendy's ice cream, Westfall Shopping Centre, Zappy Baby, Zenith
Exclusively Audi, Seat
Includes AO Safety, Audi, Benylin, BT, Camel cigarettes, CricketNext.com, Endless Pain, Foster's/Carlton Gold, Heineken, Icon Megastore, Le Meridien, MacQuarie University, Mu-Rata, New World Mobility, Nokia, Once, Pro-Plus, Roche-Rennie, Rover, Royal Mail, Seat, Solar Inc., Sydney 2000 Apparel, Trojan, UUNet, Verizon, Volkswagen
Includes Alis, Ansett Australia, ASSY 2000, Forbes, JRAP, MacQuarie University, No Regrets, Raw Bar, Volkswagen/Audi, Woolworths
Exclusively Heineken
Includes American Express, Asta Medica, Audi, Ballantines, Barnes & Thornburg, Battery, Bell South, BMW, BT
Includes Carlton Ale, Corporación INCSA, Cutty Sark, DHL, DTAC, Egmont Comics, ESPN
Includes Forbes, GlaxoSmithKline, Group Telecom, House of Prince, Hyundai, Jimmi Taco Sauce
Includes Kaiser beer, Mercedes Benz, MG/Rover, Pharmacia Upjohn
Includes Polenguinho Cheese, Saab, Seat, Sky Television, Sonae.com
Includes Taco Bell, Taj Bengal, TDC Mobil, Thames Water, Time, Volkswagen
Includes Warner Lambert, Wella, Yahoo.com., Zoo Safari
Includes American Express, Ballantine's, Barnes and Thornburg, Belfa, BMW/Mini, Clorets, Europcar, Granath
Includes Hamilton Island, Hyundai, Ikea, Onida, Seat, Sky Television, Time, Verizon, Volkswagen, Yellow Pages.
Includes Amnestia Internacional, Assistência Médica Internacional, Instituto Nacional de Cardiologia Preventiva, Prostate Cancer Research Foundation, Royal Flying Doctor Service, Save Our Kids.
Includes AO Safety, Audi, Future Kids, Heineken
Includes Land Rover, New World Mobility, Nokia, Seat
Includes National Geographic, Nokia, Thames water, Volkswagen/Audi.
Includes Audi, British American Tobacco/Lucky Strike, Cutty Sark, Epilady, Hyundai, Mercedes, Moët/Loto, Nokia, Odol mouthwash, Royal Mail, Solar Inc., Stavanger Museum, Whitehall/Chapstick.
Includes Consejo Publicitario Argentino and Thredbo
Contains the locations of materials for the clients most heavily represented in the chronological list. Arranged by client name and then by date.
Correspondence, clippings, listings and printed materials relating to creative competitions, creative standards, databases (such as Adbank) and information technology, as well as files relating to executives such as John Fawcett, supporting materials for annual reports and departmental events. The files include calls for submissions, informational brochures and awards booklets for many of the major advertising industry awards competitions, as well as correspondence and submission forms for Bates's own Best of Bates competitions. Some of the images in the awards booklets represent Bates award-winning entries, but there is little documentation about the actual entry submissions themselves, nor are the actual submission procedures for external awards competitions well-documented here. Included is a run of the Creative Department's newsletter Shout! Arranged alphabetically. Therein, printed materials are further arranged chronologically.
from Barry Stephenson
file of Denise Williams
Induction of William Backer
Advertising Marketing Effectiveness
Articles and clippings relating to creative awards
Statements of accounts, ledgers, computer-generated sales analyses, tax information and trial balances dating between 1941-1993. There is not a complete run of any one kind of report. Organized alphabetically by type of report and chronologically therein.
Memoranda, lists of executives, manuals on company policies and procedures, along with information on benefits, new employee orientation and training and other printed materials created or used by the Bates Human Resources department. The series is organized into eight subseries--Administrative Files, Clients, Employee Information, Media, Meetings, Memoranda, Personnel Files, and Printed Materials. Arranged alphabetically.
Organizational charts, shareholder lists and files on mergers (especially Bates with Backer Spielvogel) and acquisition projects (including Kenyon & Eckhardt, Needham, Harper & Steers, and Tracy Locke agencies) and Bates' takeover by Saatchi & Saatchi. Included is information on Bates' original incorporation in 1955. Organized into two categories--General files and Mergers and acquisitions--and alphabetically therein.
Primarily lists of clients and account information. Arranged alphabetically.
Orientation materials for new employees, benefits packages (insurance, profit sharing, retirement), job descriptions, manuals for supervisors, performance evaluation guidelines and training materials. Included is information on the Unique Selling Proposition (USP) as Bates' guiding philosophy, employee training in USP, and case studies of significant USP campaigns, such as Certs and Nicorette. USP was the constant corporate principle that survived Bates' long history of name changes and mergers. The first part of the series is arranged alphabetically by company or subsidiary name, followed by files relating to USP that are arranged alphabetically by topic.
Clippings and articles about Bates, Bates executives (including Ted Bates and Rosser Reeves), clients and competitors, media department publications and press releases. Organized into four categories--Articles and clippings, Media Department files, Press releases, and Scrapbooks. Files are arranged alphabetically, except for the press releases, which are arranged chronologically.
Materials handed out at company-wide managers' meetings as well as materials pertaining to advertising industry meetings, such as the Advertising Hall of Fame meeting, and conferences hosted by the American Association of Advertising Agencies (AAAA). Arranged alphabetically by meeting title, and chronologically therein.
Sponsored by AAAA
Organization-wide communications primarily to general staff and to foreign offices relating to company policies, new business announcements, key promotions and other subjects of general interest. Arranged chronologically.
Appointment announcements, lists of executives, recruitment and employee turnover studies, as well as files on key executives such as Archibald Foster, Robert Jacoby, Larry Light and Rosser Reeves. There is no file for Ted Bates himself. Series does not include information on the promotions, salaries, benefits or evaluations of individual employees except in the context of publicly distributed press releases. Arranged alphabetically. For housing reasons, scrapbooks are located at the end of the subseries.
Unpublished manuscript of Ted Bates Co. history
Periodical publications, pamphlets and brochures that promote Bates and USP, as well as annual reports from Bates' parent corporations, such as Saatchi & Saatchi and Cordiant PLC. Arranged alphabetically by type and title.
Includes letters, posters, plaques, items with corporate logo and other memorabilia. Arranged alphabetically.
Presented to Ted Bates Advertising for its minority hiring program.
Poster was part of a knowledge management program at Bates.
Includes photo-essay booklet What I Had to Do by Geralyn Shukwit
Correspondence, letters of introduction, mailings, research reports, presentations and other printed materials. The series spans 1973-2003, but most of the materials fall between 1993 and 2003, and represent Bates' pursuit of new business accounts through its various New Business departments during the final decade of the company's existence. The series is organized into three subseries--General Files, Competing Agencies, and Companies--and alphabetically therein.
Some large-format items have been removed to special boxes. Items have been linked to the pertinent subseries by a dummy file, which title appears in brackets.
Audiovisual materials have been removed to the Audiovisual Materials Series. Originals are closed to use. Technical Services staff need to produce use copies before contents can be accessed. Please consult with Research Services staff before requesting audiovisual materials.
Some materials were received as electronic files. Disks were assigned consecutive numbers reflecting the order in which they were encountered. If a work has a corresponding or associated electronic file, the file is included in the container list. The contents of each disk have been migrated to the electronic records server. Consequently, the contents of these disks are available only in correspondingly numbered electronic subdirectories. Consult a reference archivist for access to the electronic files.
Administrative files, general corporate presentation materials, research reports and other materials used to prepare new business pitches. Included is a sample portfolio of print advertisements used to support presentations. Arranged alphabetically.
Disk contains a powerpoint file entitled Bates Worldwide, and a folder of various fonts
Disk 1 of 10 containing office powerpoint, word, excel, fonts, and art for various clients (7th Street-Bates).
Disk 2 of 10 containing office powerpoint, word, excel, fonts, and art for various clients (Bed, Bath & Beyond-Continental).
Disk 3 of 10 containing office powerpoint, word, excel, fonts, and art for various clients (Creative CD-Estée Lauder).
Disk 4 of 10 containing office powerpoint, word, excel, fonts, and art for various clients (First Plus-KPMG).
Disk 5 of 10 containing office powerpoint, word, excel, fonts, and art for various clients (Labatts-Merrick).
Disk 6 of 10 containing office powerpoint, word, excel, fonts, and art for various clients (Modell's-Nine West).
Disk 7 of 10 containing office powerpoint, word, excel, fonts, and art for various clients (Nokia-Qwest).
Disk 9 of 10 containing office powerpoint, word, excel, fonts, and art for various clients (Salon Selectives-SunLife).
Disk 10 of 10 containing office powerpoint, word, excel, fonts, and art for various clients (Templates-WorldSpace).
Disk entitled New Business Presentation 1997 contains 15 folders for different customers each containg powerpoint documents
Disk entitled Exact Sciences presentation to Jennifer Rosenberg, 2002 Nov. 4
Primarily summary reports on 37 competing agencies, but also includes a limited sampling of competitive new business pitches and presentations. Arranged alphabetically by agency name.
Letters of introduction, correspondence, mailings, and presentation materials that document Bates' active pursuit of new business. Over 400 companies and/or products are represented, although most of the files are limited to contact letters (feelers) that Bates' offices sent out to prospective clients, along with some responses to requests for information and follow-up communication. Some companies' files, however, are more extensive, comprising research reports, credentials presentations, analyses of a prospective client's competing products, and account planning strategies, and provide a glimpse into the actual process Bates undertook to win new business accounts. These companies include Amtrak, Bali Company, Bank of America, Bell South, Chevron-Texaco, Coca-Cola Company, Colgate-Palmolive, A.T. Cross, Delta Airlines, IKEA, Jenny Craig, KPMG, Marconi PLC, Motorola, New York Lottery, Nokia, the Office of National Drug Control Policy, Parmalat, Petsmart, Reckitt-Benckiser, Sara Lee Lingerie, Sunkist Growers, Inc., Unisys, the U.S. Navy and WebMD. Arranged alphabetically by client name.
See also SBC Communications
Disk contain two folder each containing various fonts and logos
Disk contains five folders entitled Asia Media,Latin America Media,Canada Media,Asia Media, and U.S. Media each of which contains several spreadsheet files
see also Ralston Purina
see also Rezulin
Legal dispute over a partnership to secure new business in southern Florida.
Disk contains a powerpoint file, and six video files that are part of the powerpoint presentation
Luggage tag reads Paul Levine, Chief Marketing Officer. Includes advertisements from Brown and Williamson, Honda, Nike, Tommy Hilfiger, Warner-Lambert and Wendy's
Portfolio of advertising examples from clients including the Ad Council, National Geographic, Nokia, Sauza, and the Whitney Museum.
Package in the form of Batesopoly, a parody of the Parker Brothers, Monopoly board game.
Print proofs, tear sheets and photocopies of print advertisements maintained in print books by the Print Production Department, which was responsible for producing these advertisements in various sizes, colors, and shapes. Entries in the books were apparently made as the advertisements were created. The print books thus reflect Bates' domestic client roster over time and constitute a representative sampling of Bates' North American output for the years covered. (For examples of Bates' international work, see the Creative Department Series.) Major clients represented include Avis, Campbell's Soup Company, Carter-Wallace, Cunard Lines, Foot Locker, Hyundai, Kal Kan, Lancaster, M&M/Mars, Miller Brewing Co., Paddington, Panasonic, Prudential-Bache, T. Rowe Price, Trans-World Airlines (TWA), U.S. Navy, Warner-Lambert, Wendy's International, and Westvaco. The files are organized into two lists--chronological and alphabetical. There is considerable date overlap in the chronological listings, largely due to the vaying durations of Bates' client relationships.
Arranged by year, then alphabetically by client contained in each print book
Some advertisements by McCann Erickson agency
Some advertisements by McCann Erickson agency
Arranged by client, then by year
Consists of clippings, journal articles, research reports and other printed materials that cover a wide range of topics of general interest to Bates staff. Publication dates of the materials in this series cover 1934-2001, although the bulk of materials date between 1986 and 1998. Major topics include advertising, advertising agencies, beverages, brands, drugs, food, foreign markets, internet, marketing, medical, research, retail, sports, television, tobacco, women, and youth market. Files were maintained by Bates alphabetically according to topic in the order presented here; entries appearing in brackets have been added to aid in cross-referencing topics.
Listed below are audiovisual materials that require production of access copies before use.
Subject Cross-Reference Index
141 Communicator, box CL1
141 Worldwide, box CC66
1-800-Flowers, box NB6
53 International, box NB6
77th St. Streetwear, box CR21
A&E, boxes CL6, NB6
A.T. Cross (Cross pens), box NB8
AAAA: see American Association of Advertising Agencies
AAF: see American Advertising Foundation
Aalborg Extra, box CL6
AAMCO, box NB6
AAR Partners, box NB6
AC & R, boxes CC97, HR2, HR6
ACE (Beckton Dickinson), box CC19
Achenbaum, Alvin A., boxes AVO2, CC99
ACP Gourmet Traveler, box CR10
Activo (Warner-Lambert), box CL134
Acxiom Corporation, box NB6
Ad Club of New York, box CC4
Ad Council, boxes CC4, CC19, CL6, PB75A, PB98
Ad Partner, box CC5
Adams (Body Smarts), box CC19
Adidas, box NB6
Admap, 2001 Oct, box NB1
Advertising Age, boxes CC36, CC37, NB1
Advertising Agency Search Service, box NB6
Advertising Women of New York, box CC5
Adweek, boxes CC38, CC67
Agency, box CC39
AIDS Foundation, box PB93
Airtime/TV3, box CR26
Aksjon 2000/Y2K Problem, box CR15
Albert, Newhoff, and Burr, box CC63
Alcon, boxes PB109, PB119
Alis, box CR36
Allen and Dorward, box CC63
Allied Domecq, boxes CC19, CL6, PB129
Alltel, box NB42
American Advertising Federation (AAF), box AVO38, CC4
American Advertising Hall of Fame Luncheon, box CC55
American Association of Advertising Agencies (AAAA), boxes CC4, PB75A
American Chemistry Council, box NB6
American Chicle, boxes HR14, PB7, PB19, PB33
American Cyanamid, boxes PB34, PB46, PB58
American Express, boxes CR39, CR45
American Foundation for the Blind, box PB75A
American Plastics, box NB6
American Public Transportation Association, box NB6
American Standard, box NB6
American Suzuki, box NB6
Amgen, box NB6
Aminoff, Susan, box CC99
Amnesty International, boxes CR15, CR47
Amtrak, boxes NB6, NB7
Anheuser Busch, box NB7
Animal Planet, box NB7
Ansett Australia, boxes CR29, CR36
Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield, box NB7
AO Safety, boxes CR35, CR48
AOL Time-Warner, box NB7
Apple and Eve Juice Company, box NB7
Araldite, box CR20
ARANESP, box NB7
Arctangent, box NB7
Argosy Casino, box CC19
Arnott's, boxes CR20, CR29, NB7
Aroyan, Edward, box CC99
Arrid (Carter-Wallace), boxes CL6, CL30-CL38, PB93
Art Perform, box CR20
Arthur Andersen and Co., box CC63
Arthur D. Little, Inc., box NB7
Artzet, Edwin L., box CC100
Aruba Tourism, box PB111
Assistencia Medica Internacional, box CR47
Assumma, Frank, boxes AVO24, CC99
ASSY 2000, box CR36
Asta Medica, box CR39
Astoria Federal Savings, box NB8
AT & T Business, box NB8
Audi, boxes CR10, CR20, CR28, CR29, CR34-CR36, CR39, CR48, CR50, NB8
Autotelegraaf, box CR29
Avery, Graham, box CC100
Avis, boxes CC20, CL6, NB8, PB44, PB64, PB77, PB88, PB93, PB120, PB130
Baan Company, box CC21
Backer & Spielvogel, box HR15
Backer Spielvogel Bates, boxes AVO2-AVO21, CL7-CL10, HR6, HR22, HR23, HR45, HR46, PB28, PB75
Backer, William (Bill), boxes AVO3-AVO4, CC100, HR43
Bailey's Irish Cream, box CL118
Baldwin, Joanna, box CC100
Bali Company, box NB8
Ballantine/Sauza, boxes CR20, CR39, CR45, NB8
Bank of America, boxes NB8, NB9
Barnes & Thornburg, boxes CR39, CR45
Barnes and Noble, box NB9
Barnett Bank, box NB9
Basile, Paul, box CC100
Bassell, Gary, box CC100
BAT Romania/Viceroy, box CR13
Bates Buzz, box CC40
Bates Healthcare, box NB1
Bates Latin America, box CR20
Bates Media, box CC36
Bates News, boxes CC40, CR41
Bates North, box CC55
Bates Poland, box CR12
Bates South Africa, box CL6
Bates Ukraine, box CR12
Bates Worldwide, boxes AVO36, AVO37, CL6
Bates, Theodore (Ted), boxes AVO24, CC100, HR15, HR43
Battery, box CR39
Becker, Michael, box HR41
Becker, Robert, box CC63
Beconase (Glaxo), box CL134
Bed, Bath & Beyond, box NB9
Beech-nut, box NB9
Beefeater, box NB9
Belfa, box CR45
Bell South (see also SBC Communications), boxes CC21, CL11, CR39, NB9, NB10, NB42
Benadryl, boxes PB93, PB118, PB125
Bendelac, Stanley, box CC100
Bennett, Steve, box CC100
Benylin, box CR35
Bermuda Department of Tourism, box NB10
Bescoby, Janet, box CC100
Best Buy, box NB10
Best of Bates awards, box CC6
Bestfood's/Entemann's, boxes CC21, NB10, PB86, PB89, PB121
Beta (Sony), box CL4
BGV PCS, box NB10
Bianco, Zel, box AVO24
Bic Corporation, box NB10
BJ Wholesale, box NB10
Bloom Agency, box CC63
Blue Cross Blue Shield, box NB10
Blue Galleon, box NB11
Bluefly.com, boxes NB10, NB11
BMW, boxes CR39, CR45
BoardIt.com, box CR29
Bob's Stores, box NB11
Boda Nova, box CR20
BodySmarts, box NB11
Boeing, box NB11
Bolla wines, box CL11
Bonjour, box PB30
Boomerang Tracking, box NB11
Borden's, boxes PB8, PB20
Bose, box CR20
Boston Beer Co., box NB11
Bradley, Stephanie, box CC101
Brandwise LLC, box NB11
Brazilian Transplant Association, box CR15
Breck, boxes PB8, PB20
Bridgestone, box CR29
Brightlane.com, box PB93
Brightline Technologies, box CL11
Bristol Myers, box PB9
British Airways, boxes NB11, PB71, PB78, PB86
British American Tobacco (see also Brown & Williamson), boxes CR10, CR12, CC21
Broadway Association Incorporated, box CC5
Brown & Williamson (see also Lucky Strike), boxes AVO1, CC21, NB11
Browne, Noel, box CC101
Brune, Chris, box AVO24
Bruns, Robert, boxes HR24, HR41
Bryggentoveningen, box CR10
Bryggerigruppen, box CR10
BT, boxes CR35, CR39
Buick, box CR29
Bungey, Michael, boxes AVO5-AVO7, AVO25, CC56, CC60, CC69, CC101-CC105
Burger King, box NB11
Burroughs Wellcome (see also Warner Wellcome), boxes CC21, CL16-CL20, PB76, PB89, PB94
Butt, Richard, box CC106
Cable and Wireless, box PB131
Cabletrom, box PB93
Cabletron Systems, box CL23
Cadbury Adams (Certs), box HR13
Cadbury-Schweppes, box NB11
Caffera, John, box CC106
Caggiano, Tom, box CC106
Caldor, box NB11
Calgary (see also Miller Brewing Company), box PB40
Caltex, boxes CR20, CR23, CR28, CR29
Camel cigarettes (R.J. Reynolds), boxes CR20, CR26, CR29, CR35
Campaign, box CC39
Campbell Soup Company, boxes CC21, CC22, CL3-CL5, CL24, NB11, PB28, PB43, PB76, PB92, PB93, PB112
Campbell-Mithun Esty, box CC63
Campbell-Mithun Inc., boxes CC63, HR2
Cancer Foundation of Western Australia, boxes CR15, CR28
Cannon, box NB11
Cap Gemini Ernst & Young, box NB11
Capital One, box NB11
Careerbuilder.com, box NB11
Careerengine.com, box NB11
Cargill, box NB12
Caribbean Tourism, boxes PB93, PB106, PB111
Caribiner, box HR3
Carlton Ale, box CR40
Carlton Gold, box CR35
Carnival Cruise Lines, boxes NB12, NB44
Carpenter, Tom, box CC106
Carrier Corporation, boxes CR10, NB12
Carter, Arthur, box AVO7
Carter-Horner, box CR20
Carter's New Little Pills (Carter-Wallace), box CL40
Carter-Wallace (see also Arrid, Trojan), boxes AVO1, AVO7, CC22, CL6, CL25-CL29, CL40-CL42, PB10, PB21, PB34, PB46, PB58, PB66, PB89, PB94, PB99, PB107, PB119, PB129
Cartier, box NB12
Catto's Scotch Whiskey, box CL118
Cause of Results, box NB12
CBS, boxes PB65, PB82, PB109, PB127
CBS Broadcast Group, box CC22
CCG.XM, boxes CC68, CC98
CDW, boxes CL51, NB12, PB93, PB118, PB124
Centenary Institute, box CR20
Center for Communication, box CC5
Century 21, box NB12
Certs (Cadbury Adams), box HR13
Champion Products, box NB12
Champs, boxes PB93, PB108, PB122
Channel One Communication, box NB12
Charter, box NB12
Chase, box PB123
Chase Chemical, box PB116
Chase Manhattan Bank, boxes CL51-CL52, PB10
Chattem, box NB12
Chemical Bank, boxes CL51-CL52
Chemical Geoserve, box PB106
Chevron-Texaco, boxes NB12, NB13
Chiat Day, box HR3
Child Relief and You, box CR10
Children's Health Insurance Program, box NB13
Children's Television Workshop, box NB13
Christensen, Andrea, boxes CL26, CL45
Chrysler Building, box AVO8, CC80
Cincinnati Bell, box NB13
Cinemax, boxes PB46, PB58A, PB67
Cinnaburst (see also Warner-Lambert), box PB93
Circuit City, box NB13
Cisco Systems, boxes CL51, NB13
CIT, box NB13
Citgo, box NB13
Citibank-Direct, box NB13
Citizen Watch, boxes CL52, NB13, NB14
Citizen's Bank, box NB14
Citron, John, box CC106
Cityview Apartment Homes, box CL6
Clairol (see also Procter & Gamble), boxes NB14, PB21
Clark, Chris, box CC106
Classico, box NB14
Clinique, boxes PB93, PB117, PB128, PB132
Clinton (President William), box CC106
Clio awards, box CC6
Clio Awards winners, 2001, box NB1
Clipper beer (see also Miller Brewing Co.), box CL3
Clorets, boxes CR10, cr45
CMGI, Inc., box NB14
CNN (Cable News Network), boxes AVO8, CC22
CNS, Inc., box NB14
Coca-Cola Company (Coke), boxes CC23, nb14
Colgate, boxes PB11, PB20, PB35, PB45
Colgate-Palmolive, box NB14
Comedy Central, box NB14
Comet rice, box CL6
Commodore Computers, box PB44
Common, William, box CC106
Compaq, boxes CC23, NB14, NB15
Compuserve, box NB15
Computer Associates International, box NB15
Conagra, box NB15
Conair, box PB12
Concerta, box NB15
Condado Plaza, box PB111
Conference Board, box CC5
Conoco, box NB15
Consejo Publicitario Argentino, box CR10
Continental Airlines, box NB15
Cooper, Irwin, box AVO9
Coors Brewing Company, boxes NB15, PB12, PB36
Cordiant Communications Group, boxes AVO37-AVO38, CC84-CC86, HR11, HR49, NB2, CC66
Corona beer, box CR26
Corporacion INCSA, box CR40
Corporate Angel Network (CAN), box CC23
Corrigan, Tim, boxes AVO9, CC106
Court TV, box NB15
Courtemanche, Howard, box CC106
Cousins, Geoffrey, box AVO9
Coyne, Kevin, box CC106
CPC International (see also Bestfoods), box CC23
Cracknell, Andrew, box AVO9, CC107
Crain's, box CC39
Credit Suisse/First Boston, boxes NB15, NB16
CricketNext.com, boxes CR29, CR35
Croft Original Sherry, box CL118
Crown Lager, box CR20
Cuisinart, box NB16
Cuisine Solutions, box NB16
Cunard Lines, boxes CC23, CL53-CL56, PB93, PB100, PB108, PB122, PB128
Cushman & Wakefield, box NB16
Cutty Sark, boxes CR18, CR40
CVS, boxes CC23, NB17, PB128
Cystic Fibrosis, box CR28
Dane, Max, box CL6
D'Angelo, Art, boxes CC69, CC107
Danish Distillers, box CR20
Danish Rail, box CR20
Dannon, box NB17
Datek Online Brokerage Services, box NB17
Datex, box CR29
Davis and Geck, boxes PB109, PB119
Dawn, box CC63
DeBain, Debbie, box CC60
Debreceni, John, box CC107
Del Monte, box NB17
Delaney, box CC39
Dell Computers, box NB17
Della Femina, Jerry, box HR41
Deloitte, box NB17
Delta Airlines, box NB17
Demi-Tasse, box CL118
Denehy, Micky, box CC107
Dentyne Ice (see also Pfizer), boxes CL123, CL134, PB125
Derivion, boxes CL57, PB93
Desitin (see also Warner-Lambert), box PB118
Deutsche Bank, box CR10
DG Bank, box NB17
DHL, boxes CR10, CR40, PB46A
Dial Corporation, box NB17
Diamond, Healthworld, and Waterloo, box CC67
Dick-Rath, Deborah, box CL26
DiPasca, Rodger, boxes CL27, CL125
Discovery Channel/Animal Planet, boxes CR10, CR18
Discovery Networks, box NB17
Discovery.com, box NB17
Disney: see Walt Disney, box NB18
Dolan, Bernie, box CC107
Dole, box PB68
Donaldson, William, box AVO15
Donino, White, and Partners, box CC72
Double Click, box NB18
Dr. Scholl's, boxes PB37, PB47, PB58
DRM, box PB123
DTAC, box CR40
Dudynskay, Michael N., box CC107
Duffy-Mott, box PB33
Dunlop Maxfly Sports Corporation, box NB18
Dupont, box NB18
Duracell, box NB18
E & J Gallo, box NB18
E.D.S. (Electronic Data Systems), box CC23
Earth's Choice, box CR29
Easdon, Don, box CC107
Eastman Kodak, box CL57
Eazor, Joe, box CC107
eBook (RCA), box NB18
Eckerd, box NB18
Eddie Bauer, box NB18
EDS, boxes CR10, PB93, PB123, PB129
Egmont comics, box CR40
Eisnor, box NB18
Electric Art, box CR20
Electrolux, boxes CL6, PB7, PB13, PB34, PB93
EnBW Energy, box CR29
Endless Pain, box CR35
Energizer, box CL6, NB18
Energy Australia, box CR10
Epilady, box CR51
Ericsson Cellular, box CC23
ESPN, boxes CC23, CC24, CR10, CR26, CR40
Estée Lauder, boxes CC24, CL6, PB113, PB118, PB124
ETA barbecue sauce, box CR20
Ethan Allen, box NB18
Europcar, box CR45
Eveready, box CL58
EVineyards, box NB18
Falcon Jet, box PB99
Farmindustria, box CR10
Fawcett, John, boxes AVO26, AVO31, AVO38, CC56, CC107
Federal Voting Assistance Program, box CL6
FedEx, box NB18
Fidelity Investments, box NB18
Fiedler, John, box HR41
Financial Times, box NB18
Finesse (Helene Curtis), boxes CL3, CL4
First Response, box PB93
Fisher Price, boxes PB57, PB93
Florida Prepaid College Board, box NB18
Florsheim, box NB18
Follow the Rabbit, box NB18
Food Network, box NB18
Foot Locker, boxes CC24, CL58-CL62, PB93, PB106, PB107, PB121
Forbes, boxes CR36, CR41
Forest Labs, box NB18
Fortune International, box CC39
Foster, Archie (Archibald McGeorge), box HR41
Foster's, boxes CR29, CR35, NB18
France Telecom, box NB18
Frankfurter Allgemeine, box CR18
Frank's Nursery and Crafts, box NB18
Fresto (Warner-Lambert), box CL134
Friends of the Earth, box CR28
Froelich, Bob, boxes AVO26 CC107
Fruit of the Loom, box NB18
Frutali (Warner-Lambert), box CL134
FT.com, box NB18
Fuji, box NB18
Future Kids, box CR48
Futures @ Net, box NB18
Gadzooks, box NB18
Gamble, Robert, box CC107
Gateway, box NB18
Gaz Metropolitan, box CR12
GE (General Electric), boxes PB93, PB130
GECC (General Electric Capital Corporation), boxes PB99, PB110
Geiger, Joan, box HR41
General Felt, boxes PB101, PB111
General Foods, boxes PB22, PB38, PB46A, PB54
General Motors, box NB18
Gentleman magazine, box CR10
Gerald Stevens, box NB18
Gilbey Canada, box CL118
Gilette, box NB18
GlaxoSmithKline, box CR41
GNC, box NB18
Go Beyond meeting, box CC56
Goldman Sachs, box NB18
Goldstein, Leonard, box AVO26
Gore-Tex, box NB18
Granath, box CR45
Grand Bay Hotels, box NB19
Green Mountain, box NB19
Grey Advertising, boxes CL75-CL82
Grignon, Perianne, box CC107
Grolsch, box NB36
Group Telecom, box CR41
Groupom, box CR20
GTE (General Telephone), boxes CC24, PB93
Gury, Jeremy, box HR41
Gymboree Corporation, box NB19
Hackett, Randall, box CC107
Haddad, box PB89
Hahn, Carole, box CC107
Hallmark, box NB19
Hamill, Alex, box CC107
Hamilton Island, boxes CR13, CR46
Hamilton, Rich, box CC108
Hart, Timothy, box CC108
Hasbro Incorporated, box NB19
HBO (Home Box Office), boxes CC24, NB19, PB23, PB39
Health and Hospitals Corporation, box NB19
Health Net, box NB19
Healthmark, box CC63
Healthworld, box CC24
Hearn, Colin, boxes CC60, CC108
Hearn, David, box AVO27
Hefty, boxes PB14, PB35
Heineken, boxes CR19, CR29, CR35, CR37, CR48, NB19
Heinz (H.J. Heinz), boxes CL6, CR12, NB19
Helene Curtis, boxes CL3, PB31
Help USA, box PB118
Herbert, Ike, box AVO11
Hertz Rent-a-Car, boxes CL63-CL64, PB14
Heublein, boxes PB109, PB120, PB130
Hewlett-Packard, box NB19
Hilton, box NB19
Hindustani Lever, box CR20
Hinton, Graham, box CC108
Hire.com, box NB43
History Channel, box NB19
Hoefer, Dieterich, and Brown, box CC63
Hoffman Advertising Group, box CC63
Hoffman-La Roche, box CL69
Hoganas Keramik, box CR10
Holiday Inn, box PB93
Holland House, box PB48
Holloway Sportswear, boxes AVO1, NB19
Holmen, Robert, box HR24
Holten, Morgens, box AVO11
Home Depot, box NB19
Hoosier Lottery, box CC24
Horton, Church, and Goff, box CC64
House of Prince, boxes CR10, CR41
Howard Johnson (HoJo), box PB110
Howard Swink, box CC64
HP: see Hewlett-Packard, box NB19
Humphrey, Browning, and McDougall, box CC64
Hyatt International Corporation, box NB19
Hyundai, boxes AVO1, AVO11, CC24-CC26, CL65-CL68, CR41, CR46, PB51, PB61, PB72, PB79, PB93, PB125
IAA (International Advertising Association), boxes AVO12, CC5
Icon Megastore, box CR35
IKEA, boxes CR13, CR28, CR46, NB20, NB41
Imperial Tobacco, box CL69
Inchape, box CR13
India tourism, box CR20
Indianapolis Colts (football team), box CC27
Industrial National Bank, box PB15
Infogrames Incorporated, box NB20
ING Group, box NB20
Ingalls Association, box CC64
Instant Photo (Sony), box CL4
Instinet.com, box NB20
Instituto Nacional de Cardiologia Preventiva, box CR47
Integrated Health (TAP Pharmaceuticals), box NB20
Intel, box NB20
Interactive Edge, box CC27
Interland, box PB93
International Continental Baking (ITT CBC; see also Wonder), boxes PB9, PB45
International Olympic Committee, box NB20
International SOS, box CR29
Internet Security Systems, boxes CL6, PB118
Intuit Incorporated, box NB20
Investor and Analyst presentation, box CC57
IRTS (International Radio and Television Society), box CC5
Israel Ministry of Tourism, box PB111
ISS, box PB124
ISS (Internet Security Systems), box NB20
Ivey School of Business, box CR29
J&B Scotch Whiskey, boxes CL118-CL119
J.I. Case, box NB20
J.P. Morgan, box NB20
Jacoby, Robert, boxes HR24, HR41
Jador, boxes PB16, PB19
Jaguar, box CR10
Jamont, box CC27
JCPenney, box NB20
Jaret International, box NB20
Jenny Craig, box NB20
Jergens, box NB20
JetBlue Airways, box NB20
Jhirmack, box PB79
Jimmi Taco Sauce, box CR41
Jockey, box CR21
Jockey, box NB20
Joint Recruiting Advertising Program (JRAP), boxes CC27, CL6, CL69-82, CR36, NB21, PB92, PB118
Jones-Lundin Associates, box NB20
Joop!, box PB87
Jose Cuervo, box PB131
Joseph Garneau, boxes HR24, PB24, PB38, PB54
Juice Works (Campbell Soup Co.), box CL3
Just diamond, boxes CR10, CR21, CR29
Just gold, box CR29
Just Having Fun, box NB21
Just My Size, box NB21
Kahlua, boxes CR30, CR31
Kahn, Dominique, box CC108
Kaiser beer, boxes CR22, CR23, CR42
Kal Kan, boxes PB15, PB25, PB35, PB45, PB59, PB68, PB73, PB84, PB101, PB114
Kapsky, Mark, box CC108
Kaszner, Charles, box CC108
Kaufman & Board Home Corporation, box NB21
Kearns, W.H., box HR42
Kellam, Alan, box CC108
Kellogg Company, box NB21
Kennedy, Neil, box CC108
Kenyon & Eckhardt, box HR3
KFC USA (Kentucky Fried Chicken), box NB21
Kinney Shoes (Woolworth Specialty Footwear Division), boxes CC27, CL83-87, NB21, PB87, PB119
Knisley, Patrick, box CC108
Knockando Scotch Whiskey, box CL119
Knoll Pharmaceuticals, box NB21
Kobrand, Alize, box NB21
Kobs & Brady, box CL132
Kobs and Draft, boxes CC64, CC65, CC76
Kool (see also Brown & Williamson), boxes CL11, CL15, PB22, PB118
Kost, Steve, box CC108
KPMG, boxes CL88, NB21
Krev, Mitch, box CL27
L.L. Bean, box NB22
Labatt USA, box NB21
Lady's Choice (see also Carter-Wallace), box CL39
Lancaster, boxes PB85, PB86, PB93, PB102, PB115
Land Rover, boxes CR21, CR22, CR31, CR49
Land's End, box NB21
Larson and Bateman, box CC65
Latino marketing (Bates South), box NB3
Laxatives, box CL40
Lazard Freres, box CC65
Lazarus, Kara, box CC108
Lazarus, Shelley, box CC108
Le Meridian, boxes CR31, CR35
Lee, Spike, box CC60
Lego Systems, box NB21
Leiner, box NB21
Leisure Planet, box NB21
Lenz, Bob, boxes AVO13-AVO14, HR24
Leung, Matthew, box CL28
Levi Strauss & Co., boxes NB21, NB22
Levine, Paul, box CC108
Levitt, Theodore, box AVO27
Lexis-Nexis, box NB22
Lexmark, box NB22
Light, Larry, box AVO41, HR42
Lighthouse, box NB22
Lighthouse Global Network, Inc., box CC67
Limited Brands, box NB22
Lindt Chocolates, box NB22
Lipitor, box PB87
Lojack, box NB22
Los Angeles Dodgers, box NB22
Loto/Moet, box CR18
Louis Rich, boxes PB46A, PB54
Löwenbräu (see also Miller Brewing Company), boxes CL2-CL4, PB40
Lubriderm (see also Pfizer), box CL6
Lucky Strike (see also Brown & Williamson), boxes CL11-CL15, PB87, PB118, PB125
Luxottica, box NB22
Lycos, box NB22
Lysol, box NB22
M&M/Mars, boxes AVO27, CC27, CL6, PB4, PB17, PB21, PB38, PB46A, PB54, PB58A, PB66, PB73, PB84, PB101, PB114
MacLennan, Ross, box HR42
MacQuarie University, boxes CR35, CR36
Magnavox (North American Philips), boxes PB55, PB76, PB87, PB92
Magnum malt liquor (see also Miller Brewing Company), box CL3
Major League Baseball, box NB22
Malibu, box CL119
Mandarin Oriental Hotels, box CL6
MapQuest, box PB130
Marchese, John, boxes CC56, CC108
Marconi PLC, boxes CL89, NB22-NB24
Marine Midland Bank, box NB24
Marriot, box NB24
Mastercard, box NB24
Mattel Inc., box NB24
Maxell, boxes CL89, PB114, PB123
Maxrate.com, box CL89
Maybelline, boxes PB13, PB21, PB36, PB58
Mayer, Martin, box HR42
Mazzuchelli, Robert, box CC108
MCA/Universal, box NB24
McBride, Gary, box CC109
McCaffrey & McCall, boxes CC72, CL135
McCann-Erickson, boxes CL108-CL109
McDonalds - Boston Franchise Group, box NB24
McIllhenny-Tabasco, box CR21
McKennan, Jim, box CC109
Meadow Lea Foods, box NB24
Media, box CC54
Mego, boxes PB25, PB34
Meineke, box NB24
Meister Brau (see also Miller Brewing Company), boxes CL4, CL5, PB40
Melanson, Anne, box CC109
Men's Wearhouse, box NB24
Mercedes Benz, boxes CR11, CR21, CR24, CR331, CR424
Met Life (Metropolitan Life Insurance), box NB24
Metropolitan Museum of Art, boxes CL90, PB75A
MG, box CR42
MH20, box NB24
Michelin North America, box NB24
Michelob (Anheuser Busch), box PB45
Midas Inc., box NB24
Midtown Golf, box CL6
Midway Games, box NB24
Militarycareers.com, box NB24
Millennium Foundation, boxes CR16, CR28
Miller Brewing Company, boxes CC27-CC29, CL91-CL112, PB2, PB6, PB40, PB56, PB69, PB83, PB87, PB97, PB112
Miller High Life (see also Miller Brewing Company), boxes CL1-CL5
Mini Cooper, box CR45
Minute Maid, box NB24
Mobil, boxes PB14, PB45
Modell's, box NB24
Mohegan Sun, box NB24
Molson Breweries, box NB24
Monahan, Tom, box CC60
Monarch Pharmaceuticals (Altace), box NB24
Monster.com, boxes AVO1, NB24
Montgelas, Rudolph, box HR42
Montgomery Ward, box NB24
Morgan Anderson & Co., box NB25
Morris, Mark, boxes AVO28, CC56, CC109, CL16, HR42
Motorola, boxes NB25, NB26
Mount Sinai, box CC29
Mova Regional, box CR28
MP Total Care, box NB26
Mr. Hero, box NB26
Murata Electronics, boxes CL6, CL113, CR35, PB118, PB124
Murray, John, box AVO13
Museum of Television and Radio, box CC5
Music Bank, box NB26
Mustang/Joop! Jeans, boxes PB86, PB102, PB115
MVP.com, box NB26
Myanmar Brewery, box CL6
Nabisco, boxes HR14, PB13
Nadler and Larimer, box CC66
Nair, boxes PB87, PB118
Napa Auto Parts, box NB26
National Discount Brokers, box NB26
National Geographic, boxes CL113, CR50
Nationwide Advertising Service, box CC66
National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), box CC29
NCR, boxes CL4, CL5, PB49
Needham Harper & Steers, box HR3
Neogenic Pharmaceuticals, box NB26
Neosporin (see also Warner-Lambert), boxes CL6, PB87
Nestlé Purina, box NB26
Net2Phone, box NB26
Neupogen, box NB26
New Moment Design, box CR21
New World Mobility, boxes CR35, CR49
New York Knicks, box NB27
New York Landmarks Preservation Commission, box CC29
New York Lottery, boxes NB26, NB27
New York Public Library, box CC5
New York Racing Association, boxes PB81, PB90, PB103
New York Times, box NB27
Newman, Richard, box CC109
Nextel, box NB27
Nicorette, box HR14
Nike Inc., box NB27
Nikon, boxes NB27, NB45
No Regrets, box CR36
Nokia, boxes CR11, CR18, CR23, CR24, CR28, CR32, CR35, CR49, CR50, NB27, NB43
Norman, Craig, and Kummel, box CC66
North American Philips (Magnavox), boxes CC29, PB55
Northern Telecom (Nortel), boxes NB27, PB72, PB79, PB82
Northwest Airline, box NB27
Novartis, box NB27
Noxell, box PB31
Nutro Products, box NB27
NYSE, box CC69
NZ Cheese, box CR11
Oakley, box NB27
Ocean Spray, boxes NB27, PB7
Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), boxes CC29, NB27, NB28
Old Forester, box CL6
Old Navy, box NB27
Once, boxes CR33, CR35
One Club for Art and Copy, box CC5
Onida, box CR46
Opensite, box CL113
Operation Graduation, box NB28
Opportunity in Diversity presentation, box CC57
Optimum Online, box NB28
Oracle Corporation, box NB28
Organ Donation Center of Thailand, box CR16
Origins, boxes PB110, PB126
Orion Pictures, box CC29
Orion Telecommunications, box NB28
Orkin, box NB28
Orlando/Orange Country Convention & Visitors Bureau, box NB28
Oronite (ChevronTexaco), box CL6
Osborn, Rick, box CC109
Outdoor Life Network, box NB28
Pacific Sunwear (PacSun), boxes CC29, CR33, NB28
Paddington Corporation, boxes CL114-CL119, PB26, PB32, PB42, PB52, PB62
Palm Bay Imports, box NB28
Panasonic, boxes PB4, PB17, PB27, PB41, PB46A. PB47, PB59
Papagiannacopoulos, Yannis, box CC109
Parke-Davis, box NB28
Parker, Osbert, box AVO28
Parliament (Philip Morris), boxes PB53, PB63, PB74
Parmalat, boxes CC29, NB28, NB29
Partnership for a Drug Free America, boxes CC30, PB129
Paster, Harry, box AVO14
Peace Corps, boxes CC30, CL120-CL122, NB38
Pearl & Dean, box CR13
Pearl Drops (Carter-Wallace), box CL43
Pearson, Steve, box AVO28
Pep Boys, boxes AVO14, NB29
Perrier, boxes PB110, PB126
Person, Sarah, box CC109
Petplace.com, boxes AVO1, NB29
Petsmart, boxes NB29, NB30
Peugeot, box CR13
Pfizer, boxes CL123-CL124, CR13, PB7, PB38, PB46A, PB54, PB68
Pfizer-Lipitor, box NB30
Pharmacia Upjohn, box CR42
Philips Electronics (see also North American Philips), box NB30
Philips-Van Heusen, box NB30
Photonica, box CR13
Picon, Mindy, box CL114
Pier 1 Imports, box NB30
Piker Geroge, box PB36
Pinkham, Richard, box HR42
Pioneer Electronics, box NB30
Pironen, Maria, box CC109
Playboy Enterprises, Inc., box NB30
Playtex, boxes NB30, PB15, PB25
PMC-Sierra, box NB30
PNC Bank, box NB30
Polenguinho Cheese, box CR43
Pond-Jones, Jay, box CC109
Positano, box PB75A
Potenzano, John, box CC109
Precision Drilling, box CL6
Prempro (Wyeth Ayerst Women's Health), box NB30
Prescriptives, box PB117
Presideo, box CL122
Prevacid (TAP Pharmaceuticals), boxes CC30, NB30, PB87, PB118, PB132
Priceline.com, box NB30
Prime Retail, box NB30
Pripp's Breweries, boxes CR11, CR21, CR33
Pró Juréia, box CL6
Proctor & Gamble (see also Clairol), box NB30
Prodigy, box NB30
Progress Software, box NB30
Progressive Insurance, box NB30
Project Hope China, box CR16
Proplayer, box PB117
Pro-Plus, box CR35
Prostate Cancer Research Foundation, box CR47
Provident Financial Services, boxes CR11, CR21
Prudential, box CC30
Prudential, box NB31
Prudential-Bache, boxes PB9, PB24, PB36, PB60, PB70
PSINet, Inc., box NB31
Pulte Corporation, box NB31
Purex, box NB31
Purina: see Ralston Purina
Pusser's Rum, box CL119
Puttner, Gerhard, box CC109
Quaker, box NB31
Quantera, box NB31
Qwest, box NB31
R. J. Reynolds, box PB44
R.R. Donnelley and Sons, box NB32
Radio Corporation of America (RCA) (see also eBook), boxes NB31, PB12, PB25, PB33
Radio Shack, box NB31
Ralston Purina, boxes CL125, NB31
Raw Bar, box CR36
Rayovac Corporation, box NB31
RCI, boxes CR11, NB31
Re/Max, box NB32
Reckitt-Benckiser, box NB31
Red Cross, box NB32
Red Lobster, boxes PB30, PB31
Reebok International/Rockport Company, box NB32
Reeves, Rosser, boxes AVO14, AVO28, AVO29, CC109, CC110, HR15, HR42
Reichel, Walter, box HR42
Relpax, box NB32
Remy Amerique, box NB32
Renaissance Hotels and Resorts, box NB32
Report Card meeting, box CC58
Resort Condominiums, box NB32
Resume.com, box NB32
Revista Negocios, box CR33
Reyburn, David, box CC111
Rezulin (Parke-Davis/Warner-Lambert), boxes NB32, PB87
Rhone-Poulenc Rorer Pharmaceuticals, box NB32
Richards Group, box CC66
Ritz-Carlton, box NB43
RJ Reynolds, box PB33
Robertson, Mike, box CC111
Roche-Rennie, box CR35
Rogers, Ken, box AVO14, AVO29
Roman, Dan, box CC111
Rosenthal, Larry, boxes CL114-CL116
Rover, boxes CR21, CR24, CR26, CR33, CR35, CR42
Rowland, Michael, boxes CL116-CL117
Royal Flying Doctor Service, box CR47
Royal Mail, boxes CR23, CR24, CR28, CR33, CR35. NB32
Royal Olympic Cruises, box NB32
Rubenstein Associates, box NB32
Ruido Group, box NB33
Rutstein, [?], box AVO29
Rumsmiddeldirektoratet, box CR16
Ryder, box NB33
S.B. Thomas Co. (Thomas's English Muffins). box CC30
S.C. Johnson & Sons, box NB34
Saab, box CR43
Saatchi & Saatchi, boxes AVO16, AVO38, CC72-CC74, CC76, CC78, CC86, HR3, HR11, HR49
Safeway, boxes CR21, HR14
Samsonite Corporation, box NB33
Samsung Group, box NB33
Sanders Printup Loomis, box CC66
Sanson-Tricard, Violaine, box CC111
SAP.com, box CR21
Sara Lee Coffees, box NB33
Sara Lee Lingerie, boxes NB33, NB34
Sauza (see also Allied Domecq), boxes NB34, PB118
Save Our Kids, box CR47
Savings & Loan Association, boxes CL3, CL126, PB1, PB3, PB29
SBC Communications, box NB34
Scaros, Dean, box CC111
Scentstrips, box PB86
Scheonfeld, Jay, box CC111
Schering-Plough, box NB34
Schick-Wilkinson Sword, boxes CL127, NB34
Scholastic Entertainment, box NB34
Schoning, Peter, box CC60, CC111
Schwarzkopf, box CR26
Schweitzer, Gary, box CC111
Schweppes, boxes PB14, PB33, PB50
Scunci (L & N Sales and Marketing), box NB34
Seagate Technology, box NB34
Sears Roebuck & Co., boxes AVO15, NB34
Seat, boxes CR11, CR34, CR35, CR43, CR46, CR49
Sempra Energy Solutions, box NB34
Serta, box NB34
Seven-Up, box PB31
Sharp Electronics, box NB34
Shell Oil Company, box CL6
Sheraton, box NB35
Showtime, box NB35
SHR, box NB35
Sidney 2000 Apparel, box CR33
Silberberg, Bob, box CC111
Silver, Jaqueline (Jackie), boxes CC111, HR42
Silver, Jacqueline, box HR42
Silverman, Marylin, box CC111
Simon Project, box CC75
Singer, Claude, box CC111
Sky Television, boxes CR43, CR46, CR49
Slomin's, box NB35
Slosberg, Robert, box CC112
Smith, Ian, box CC112
Smith, Nancy, box CC112
Smith, Steve, boxes CL117-CL118
Smithkline Beecham, box CR11
Solar Inc., box CR35
Sole Technology, box NB35
Sonae.com, box CR43
Sonicare, box NB35
Sony, boxes CL3-CL5, CL128-CL129, CR33
Spalding Sports Worldwide, box NB35
Speakers Bureau, box CC5
Spectranet, box CR33
Spectrum United, boxes CR11, NB35
Speedy (Bates Canada), box NB35
Speilvogel, Carl, boxes AVO15-AVO19, CC66, CC112, HR24, HR43
Sprint, box NB35
St. Francis Friends of the Poor, box PB75A
St. Luke's/Texas Heart Institute, box CL6
Stake, Marcus H., box CC112
Standard Brands Company, box PB12
Stanley Steamer, box NB35
Staples, box NB35
Starwood Lodgings, box NB35
Starz!/ Encore (Liberty Media), box NB35
Stavanger Museum, box CR51
Steele, Gary, box CC112
Stern, Les, boxes AVO31, CC60, CC112
Stone, Marcia, box CC112
Stora, box CR11
Stride Rite, box NB35
Stubbings, John, box CC112
Sturtevant and Hildt, box CC66
Stuyvesant Lights (Scholz and Friends), box CL6
Suave (Helene Curtis), boxes CL3, CL4
Sunkist Growers, Inc., boxes NB35, NB36
Suntours, boxes CR11, CR13
Superdrug, box CR21
Susnjara, Gary M., box CC112
Sydney 200 Apparel, box CR35
Symbol Technologies, box NB36
T. Rowe Price, boxes CC30, NB36, PB99, PB118, PB120, PB125, PB131
T.J. Maxx, box NB36
Taco Bell, box CR44
Taj Bengal, box CR44
TAP Pharmaceuticals (Prevacid), boxes CC30, PB118
Target Corporation, box NB36
Tarrytown Conference, box CC58
Tatnell, Art, box CC112
Taylor, Tony, box CC113
TDC Mobil, box CR44
Ted Bates Inc., boxes AVO38, AVO39, AVO41, PB11, PB20, PB33, PB37, PB48, PB59, PB126
Teen Link, boxes CC17, HR21
Teenage market, boxes CL29, CL31, CL33, CL34, CL49, CL50
Telecom Malaysia, box CL6
Tennis Canada, box CR21
Terzis, Jon J., box CC113
Tetra Pak, box NB36
Texaco, boxes CC30, PB108, PB118, PB122
Thames water, boxes CR33, CR44, CR50
The Gap, box NB18
Thomas' English Muffins, box CL6
Thomasville Furnishings, box NB36
Thompson Medical Co. (Slim Fast), box PB12
Tickets.com, box NB36
Tiffany & Co., box NB36
Time, boxes CR44, CR46
Timex, box NB36
TMT Conference, box CC72
Today's Press clippings, boxes CC42-CC53, NB1
Toothpaste, boxes CL42-CL43
Torello, Judy, boxes CC9, CC10, CC60, CC113
Toshiba, box NB36
Toyota, boxes CR11, CR33
Tracy-Locke Advertising, box HR3
Transworld Airlines, box NB36
Trojan (see also Carter-Wallace), boxes CL6, CL43-CL50, CR35, PB118
Truserv Corp., box NB36
Tucker Wayne, box CC66
Turner, Ted, box AVO16
TV Cable Magazine, box PB39
TV Guide, box NB36
TWA, boxes PB91, PB95, PB95, PB104, PB105
Tyco International, box NB36
UDate.com, box NB36
Ultram (Ortho-McNeal Pharmaceuticals), box NB36
Uncle Ben's, boxes HR24, PB58A, PB68, PB85
UNICEF, boxes CC30, CR16
Unique Selling Proposition (USP), boxes AVO20, AVO22, AVO27, AVO29-AVO31, CC18, CC41, HR12, HR13, NB3, NB4
Unisys Corporation, box NB36
United Airlines, box NB36
United Jewish Appeal-Federation, box CL6
United Parcel Service (UPS), box NB36
Universal Studios, box NB36
Upton, John K., box CC113
Uptown Nails, box NB36
U.S. Airways, box NB36
U.S. Army, box PB110
U.S. Beverages LLC, box NB36
U.S. Mint, boxes CL130, PB68
U.S. Navy, boxes CL130-CL132, NB37, PB5, PB18, PB19, PB37, PB48
U.S. Postal Service (USPS), box NB38
USM Modular Furniture, box CR21
UUNet, boxes CL133, CR35, NB38, PB118, PB124
V-8 Juice (see also Campbell Soup Co.), boxes CL3, CL4
Vala Shopping Mall, box CR11
Valtrex (Burroughs Wellcome), box CL21
Van Brunt and Co., box CC66
Varma, box CR28
Verizon, boxes CR35, CR46, PB125
Viewtrade.com, box NB38
Villacher, box CR33
Virgin Atlantic Airways, box NB38
Virgin Records, box NB38
Visa USA, box NB38
Visine (see also Pfizer), boxes CL123, CL124, PB46A
Vlasic Pickles, box NB38
Volkswagen, boxes CR22, CR35, CR36, CR44, CR46, CR50
W Hotels, box NB39
Wahindia.com, box CR33
Wal-Mart.com, box NB38
Walsh, Bernard, box CC113
Walt Disney Company, box NB38
Warner-Lambert, boxes CC30, CC31, CL134, CR45, HR14, NB38, PB13, PB19, PB33, PB50, PB99, PB118, PB121, PB128, PB132
Warner-Lambert India, box CR33
Warner-Wellcome (see also Burroughs-Wellcome), boxes CL16, PB107
Waste Management, box NB38
We Can, box CC6
WebMD, boxes CC7, NB38, NB39
Webster, boxes PB79, PB82
Weider Nutrition International, box NB39
Weinfeld, Mark, box CC113
Weissman, George, box AVO21
Welch Foods, box NB39
Wella, box CR45
Wendy's, boxes CC31-CC35, CL6, PB85, PB99, PB118, PB124, PB132
Wendy's ice cream (Australia), box CR33
Western Union, box NB39
Westfall Shopping Centre, box CR33
Westvaco, boxes AVO34, CC35, CL6, CL135, NB39, PB99, PB116, PB118, PB126
Wheretheheckisit.com, box NB39
Whiteford, Robert, box AVO35
Whitehead, Bill, boxes AVO35, CC56, CC113, CC114
Whitney Museum of American Art, boxes CC6, CC35, CL6, CR22, PB118, PB125
William Douglas McAdams Inc., box CC66
Williams, Dylan, box CC114
Williams-Sonoma, box NB39
Winn-Dixie, box NB39
Wiz, box NB39
Women's Fund of Central Indiana, box PB118
Wonder (see also Intercontinental Baking), box PB35
Woolworth's, box CR36
Worldwide Management meeting, boxes AVO35, AVO36, CC58-CC60, HR26
Worth.com, box NB39
Wycoski, R., box AVO39
Xerox Corporation, boxes NB39, PB80
Y&R International, box HR3
Y2Vote.org, box CL6
Yahoo.com, box CR45
Yellow Pages, box CR46
Yo-Go, box CL134
Yturbe, Jean de, boxes CC107, CC114
Zanussi, box CR21
Zany Brainy, box NB39
Zappy Baby, box CR33
Zenith Electronics Corporation, boxes CC98, CR33, NB39
Zoo Safari, box CR45
Zovirax (see also Burroughs Wellcome), boxes CL21, CL22
Zuckert, David, box HR42
Audio and video tapes in multiple formats that include speeches, video memoranda, historical overviews and testimonials which commemorate company events such as anniversaries, retirements, and office openings, or pay tribute to the work and legacies of key executives. The series is organized into two categories--Audiovisual Materials Pulled from Other Series and Audiovisual Materials Added to Collection. Materials pulled from the other series have been arranged alphabetically according to the series titles in which they were originally housed, and therein alphabetically by topic and item title. Materials added to the collection have been arranged alphabetically according to the corporate identity responsible for the item's production, and therein alphabetically by topic and item title. Each item has been assigned a unique number that will be used to manage the production of any use copies requested by researchers.
Unique item numbers reflect the order in which items were encountered during processing and appear out of sequence in the following arrangement, which is according to title of the series from which the items came.
From box CL14. Format: VHS.
From box CL12. Format: Audio cassette.
From box CL12. Format: VHS.
From box CL12. Format: Audio cassette tape recording.
From box CL40. Format: Audio cassette.
From box CL40. Format: Audio cassette.
From box CL40. Format: Audio cassette.
From box CL66. Format: VHS.
From box CL68. Format: VHS.
From box NB2. Format: VHS.
From box NB19. Format: VHS.
From box NB6. Format: VHS.
From box NB24. Format: VHS.
From box NB29. Format: VHS.
From box NB6. Format: Audio cassette tape recording.
From box NB6. Format: VHS.
From box VF56. Format: VHS.
From box VF73. Format: Audio cassettes.
Format: Betacam
Format: 1" reel
Format: Betacam
Format: 1" reel
Format: Betacam
Format: 1" reel
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: 1" reel
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam. See Use Copy UC-A-13.
Format: Betacam
Format: 1" reel
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: 1" reel
Format: U-matic
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: VHS
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: 1" reel
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: 1" reel
Format: Betacam
Format: 1" reel
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: 1" reel
Format: Betacam
Format: 1" reel
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: 1" reel
Format: 1" reel
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: 1" reel
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: 1" reel
Format: Betacam
Format: VHS
Format: Betacam
Format: 1" reel
Format: 1" reel
Format: 1" reel
Format: DVC
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam NTSC
Format: Betacam
Format: VHS
Format: Betacam
Format: 1" reel
Format: 1" reel
Format: Betacam
Format: VHS
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: 1" reel
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: 1" reel
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: 1" reel
Format: 1" reel
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: 1" reel
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: 1" reel
Format: 1" reel
Format: 1" reel
Format: 1" reel
Format: 1" reel
Format: 1" reel
Format: 1" reel
Format: 1" reel
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: 1" reel
Format: Betacam
Format: 1" reel
Format: 1" reel
Format: Betacam
Format: 1" reel
Format: 1" reel
Format: 1" reel
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: 1" reel
Format: 1" reel
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: NTSC
Format: Betacam
Format: NTSC
Format: NTSC
Format: Betacam
Format: VHS
Format: VHS
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: VHS
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: VHS
Format: VHS
Format: VHS
Format: VHS
Format: VHS
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: DVC
Format: DVC
Format: VHS
Format: VHS
Format: Betacam
Format: 3.5 floppy disk
Format: Zip disk
Format: DVC
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: DVC
Format: VHS
Format: VHS
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: DVC
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: HI-8
Format: HI-8
Format: HI-8
Format: HI-8
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: 1" reel
Format: DVC
Format: DVC
Format: VHS
Format: VHS
CD-ROM
Format: VHS
Format: VHS
Format: DVC
Format: Betacam
Format: VHS
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: DVC
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: VHS
Format: VHS
Format: VHS
Format: VHS
Format: VHS
Format: VHS
Format: VHS
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: DVC
Format: DVC
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam-NTSC
Format: Betacam
Format: VHS
Format: VHS
Format: VHS
Format: DVC
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: VHS
Format: VHS
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: DVC
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: DVC
Format: DVC
Format: DVC
Format: DVC
Format: DVC
Format: DVC
Format: DVC
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: VHS
Format: Betacam
Format: Betacam
Format: 1" reel
Format: Betacam
Format: BetacamSP. Source: OR-A-13. Date Created: 2006.
Format: BetacamSP. Source: OR-A-101. Date Created: 2007.
Format: BetacamSP. Source: OR-A-148. Date Created: 2007.
Format: BetacamSP. Source: OR-A-171. Date Created: 2007.
Format: BetacamSP. Source: OR-A-196. Date Created: 2007.
Format: BetacamSP. Source: OR-A-226. Date Created: 2007.
Format: BetacamSP. Source: OR-A-254. Date Created: 2007.
Format: DVD. Source: OR-A-13. Date created: 2006.
Format: DVD. Source: OR-A-101. Date Created: 2007.
Format: DVD. Source: OR-A-148. Date Created: 2007.
Format: DVD. Source: OR-A-171. Date Created: 2007.
Format: DVD. Source: OR-A-196. Date Created: 2007.
Format: DVD. Source: OR-A-226. Date Created: 2007.
Format: DVD. Source: OR-A-254. Date Created: 2007.
The Raymond C. Battalio and John B. Van Huyck papers document their careers as economists at Texas A&M University (TAMU), particularly their work developing the field of experimental economics in the 1990s. Their papers are combined in one collection given their close working relationship.
The primary subjects are behavioral game theory, experimental economics, and macroeconomics. There are records related to Battalio's presidency of the Economic Science Association, Van Huyck's activity for Experimental Economics, and the founding of the Economic Research Lab at TAMU.
The most common type of material by far is research files on experiments, but there are also many correspondence files, manuscript files for writings and referee reports, course files for teaching, and files for their professional activities as economists. To a lesser extent, there are university and department files for their activities as faculty members, plus personal files from Van Huyck (especially academic coursework and family material).
The greatest amount of professional correspondence is with Charles Holt, David Levine, Thomas Palfrey, Charles Plott, Alvin Roth, and Larry Samuelson. Battalio and Van Huyck communicated with many contributors to experimental economics, and there is a lesser amount of correspondence with James Andreoni, Colin Camerer, John Kagel, and Vernon Smith.
This collection contains 1,309 floppy disks, 245 optical disks, six hard drives, five quarter-inch cartridges, and three USB thumb drives. Most or all of them belonged to Van Huyck, and he migrated files and folders to newer storage mediums over time and created backups for security or home use. Electronic records from most of these items have been copied to a server and are available. 137 installation disks for software were retained (but not copied) for possible emulation in the future; a separate inventory of them is available by request from Research Services.
Battalio and Van Huyck's correspondence, which is mainly professional in nature and with other economists, especially Charles Holt, David Levine, Thomas Palfrey, Charles Plott, Alvin Roth, and Larry Samuelson. Topics include the exchange of papers and research material, referee activity, and paper submissions. Organized into three subseries to preserve their original order: Alphabetical Correspondence (for Van Huyck), Chronological Correspondence (for Battalio), and Email Correspondence (from Van Huyck's computer disk drives).
Van Huyck's correspondence, sometimes on behalf of himself and Battalio and almost entirely professional. Topics include the exchange of papers and research material, referee activity, paper submissions, and job searches and offers, and the largest amount is with Larry Samuelson. Arranged alphabetically by last name of correspondent or organization/institution.
Text files.
Brief correspondence about writing and research experiments during Van Huyck's time at UC San Diego.
Related to Hawk-Dove and Asset Market experiments, among others.
Text files.
About exchanging papers and a planned visit by Van Huyck.
About exchanging papers and other routine matters.
About exchanging research material.
Text and executable files.
About exchanging research material.
Text and executable files.
About exchanging research material.
Text files; zipped folder.
Personal correspondence about job search.
Personal correspondence about job search.
About exchanging papers, publication of research, and research funding.
About exchanging papers.
About Econometrica.
About referee request.
About Games and Economic Behavior.
Personal correspondence about job search.
About Econometric Society.
About refereeing.
About American Economic Review.
About exchanging papers.
Unanswered requests for papers by Van Huyck from authors.
Answered requests for papers by Van Huyck from authors.
Requests received by Van Huyck for copies of papers.
Personal correspondence about job search.
About publishing in Journal of Monetary Economics.
About refereeing for RAND Journal.
About submission to Review of Economic Studies.
About exchanging papers.
Paper request.
About exchanging papers and research data.
Brief correspondence about bargaining games.
Includes discussion of proposed experiments.
About exchanging research material.
Text files; zipped folders.
About exchanging papers and class notes.
Personal correspondence.
About Van Huyck sending a paper to Schelling.
Publisher pamphlets and promotional material.
About submission to International Journal of Game Theory.
About refereeing for Quarterly Journal of Economics.
About exchanging papers.
About submission to American Economic Review.
Personal correspondence and materials related to job offer.
Personal correspondence and materials related to job offer.
Personal correspondence and materials related to job offer.
Text files.
Battalio's correspondence, which is about the exchange of papers, referee requests, and other routine matters. Arranged chronologically.
Van Huyck's email correspondence from computer disk drives. Arranged alphabetically in folders that preserve their original order and title.
Text, spreadsheet, image, executable, and GIS files; zipped folders.
Correspondents include Ray Battalio, David Cooper, John Kagel, Alvin Roth, Larry Samuelson, Vernon Smith, and family members, among others. Attachments include research material on experimental work with Battalio and others.
Correspondents include Ray Battalio, David Cheney, Drew Fundenberg, Charles Holt, David Levine, Thomas Palfrey, Alvin Roth, Larry Samuelson, and Reinhard Selten, among others. Attachments include some research material on experiments with Battalio and graduate students.
Correspondents include Ray Battalio, David Cooper, and Alvin Roth, among others. Topics include research and experiments.
Correspondents include Ray Battalio, Ken Binmore, David Cooper, Herschel Grossman, Charles Holt, John Kagel, David Levine, Thomas Palfrey, Charles Plott, Alvin Roth, Larry Samuelson, Beth Seely, Chad Wade, and William Zame, among others. Attachments include draft writings and research material on experimental work with Battalio and others.
Correspondence with Ray Battalio, personal correspondence with family members, and other communications.
Backup copy of email messages.
Correspondents include Ray Battalio, David Cooper, John Kagel, Charles Plott, Beth Seely, and Chad Wade, among others. Topics include Battalio's early work using rats in behavioral experiments.
Email messages in individual text files.
Correspondents include Ray Battalio, John Kagel, Alvin Roth, and Larry Samuelson, among others.
Email messages in individual text files.
Correspondents include Amy Glass, Brit Grosskopf, Charles Holt, John Kagel, Jana Lambert, David Levine, Charles Plott, Alvin Roth, Vernon Smith, Roberto Weber, and William Zame, among others. Topics include planning for the Battalio commemorative conference. Attachments include research material on experimental work with Battalio and others.
Correspondents include David Levine, Larry Samuelson, and others.
Correspondents include Ray Battalio, Ken Binmore, Colin Camerer, David Cooper, Vince Crawford, David Levine, Thomas Palfrey, Charles Plott, Alvin Roth, Larry Samuelson, and William Zame, among others. Topics include editorial work for Games and Economic Behavior, and there is personal correspondence with family members. Attachments include research material on experimental work with Battalio, graduate students, and others.
Email messages in individual text files.
Email messages in individual text files.
Unsorted email attachments and other files related to email correspondence.
Unsorted email attachments and other files related to email correspondence.
Unsorted email attachments and other files related to email correspondence.
Correspondents include Ray Battalio, Charles Holt, David Levine, Thomas Palfrey, Charles Plott, Alvin Roth, and Larry Samuelson, among others.
Correspondents include Ray Battalio, Charles Holt, David Levine, Thomas Palfrey, Charles Plott, Alvin Roth, and Larry Samuelson, among others.
Correspondents include Ray Battalio, Charles Holt, David Levine, Thomas Palfrey, Charles Plott, Alvin Roth, and Larry Samuelson, among others.
Material such as correspondence, presentation material, programs/agendas/schedules, and travel documents related to Battalio and Van Huyck's conference and workshop participation and Van Huyck's consulting activities. The largest files are on the Allied Social Science Associations (ASSA), Economic Science Association (ESA), National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER), and National Science Foundation (NSF). Organized into two subseries: Conferences and Consulting.
Includes correspondence, presentation material, programs/agendas/schedules, and travel documents. The largest files are on the Allied Social Science Associations (ASSA), Economic Science Association (ESA), and National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER). Arranged alphabetically by name of organization.
Program and presentation material for conference at University of Minnesota.
Presentation material for paper on adaptive behavior.
Presentation material, notes, travel documents, and other documents related to conferences.
Travel documents.
Discussion papers
Presentation material.
Presentation material.
Schedule for conference on economic complexity.
Programs, papers, and other material on organizing conference in honor of Battalio.
Correspondence.
Itinerary for conference on bounded rationality.
Travel documents.
Schedule and other material for conference on public policy.
Presentation material.
Text and spreadsheet files; folders for AEA, Arne Ryde Symposium, ASSA, Cal Tech, CMU, EEA, ESA, Faculy Development Leave, GMU, Harvard, Michigan, MPS, Pittsburgh, Plugin-Hybrid Vehicles Workshop, SEA, TAMU, UCLA, USC, and Wisconsin.
Notes and travel documents for workshop at University of Iowa.
Pamphlets and schedules for conference at University of Texas at Austin.
Presentation material.
Notes, travel documents, and schedules for meetings and summer workshops.
Presentation material, notes, travel documents, and schedules for annual conferences, as well as material related to Van Huyck's service on Executive Committee.
Conference files and documents from service on journal committee.
Notes and schedules for conferences on games and economic behavior and macroeconomics and game theory.
Cancelled trip.
Notes on stochastic replanning and signalling games.
Travel documents and schedule for conference on coordination, complexity, and communication in strategic contexts.
Travel documents, schedules, and correspondence related to conference in Tucson, Arizona.
Presentation material.
Travel documents.
Call for papers.
Schedule and correspondence.
Schedule and presentation material.
Presentation material for talks given at Brown, Penn State, Pittsburgh, Michigan, an ESA conference, and a SEA conference.
Presentation material for conference at TAMU.
Correspondence on identifying potential participants for conference.
Draft presentations and schedules for conferences for Texas-based economists.
Presentation material.
Presentation material.
Unlabeled presentation material.
Schedules, readings, and travel documents.
Programs, presentations, notes, and correspondence for summer institutes.
Presentation material.
Travel documents and correspondence.
Program and travel documents.
Presentation material for conferences.
Presentation material for multiple versions of papers on the origin of conventions in coordination problem games, learning, and bargaining games.
Travel documents.
Notes and travel documents.
Presentation material.
Travel documents and correspondence for talks given at department workshops.
Presentation material for unknown conference.
Presentation material for conference on learning equilibrium behavior at TAMU.
Presentation material for unknown conference.
Presentation material for speaking engagement at University of Michigan.
Schedule and correspondence for conference on monetary research.
Correspondence on conference proposal submission.
Presentation material, notes, travel documents, and schedules for multiple meetings.
Notes, schedules, and correspondence for workshop series.
Presentation material for speaking engagements at Arne Ryde Symposium and University of Pittsburgh Theory Seminar.
About organizing a conference on equilibrium selection and learning.
Agendas and correspondence.
Travel documents for research-related visit.
Travel documents.
Schedule for "Game Theory in Experiments" workshop.
Paperwork related to speaking engagement.
Schedule, notes, and travel documents for "Behavior in Games" conference.
Presentation material.
Notes and correspondence.
Travel documents and correspondence.
Paperwork related to speaking engagement.
Schedules for conference on "New Frontiers in Economic Policy."
Notes, travel documents, and schedule for conference on "Experimental Economics Research on Bargaining and Learning."
Schedule and travel documents.
Travel documents.
Notes, schedule, and correspondence.
The vast majority of these files are Van Huyck's evaluations of National Science Foundation (NSF) proposals as part of his service on review panels, but he also consulted on one legal case. Arranged alphabetically.
Text files; entirely relates to NSF.
Proposal evaluations.
Van Huyck consulted on questions of milk pricing and cartel practices for legal case involving Kroger and Texas.
Material such as correspondence, drafts, supporting research material, referee reports, and reprints related to Battalio and Van Huyck's published and unpublished writings. The largest files are on "Dynamic Monetary Control and Interest Rate Stabilization," "Evidence on Learning in Coordination Games," and "Optimization Incentives and Coordination Failure in Laboratory Stag Hunt Games." Organized into three subseries: Articles and Book Chapters, Referee Reports, and Special Issue of Experimental Economics in Honor of Battalio.
Includes correspondence, drafts, reprints, and supporting research material (typically experiment data). The largest files are on "Dynamic Monetary Control and Interest Rate Stabilization," "Evidence on Learning in Coordination Games," and "Optimization Incentives and Coordination Failure in Laboratory Stag Hunt Games."
Battalio and Van Huyck coded their experiments to indicate type and vintage (see the Experiments series for more details). Experiment codes appearing in this subseries also appear in the Experiments series, possibly allowing connections to be made between published writings and experiment files. The most frequently used codes are as follows: BB are beauty contest games inspired by Keynes's famous example of the workings of financial markets; C or CONV followed by a number are experiments on conventions; CR or CRAW followed by a number are coordination games; DEC followed by a letter and/or number or DX followed by a number are on decentralized allocation decisions; and PD followed by a number are peasant-dictator games. Less frequently used codes can be found in the Other Experiments and Related Materials subseries.
Reprint, drafts, and notes.
Drafts, notes, and research material.
Reprint, drafts, proofs, notes, and research material.
Text and executable files.
Text, dataset, and image files; zipped folders.
Reprint.
Drafts and notes.
Reprint, drafts, proofs, notes, and research material.
Drafts and research material.
Drafts, notes, and research material.
Reprint, drafts, proofs, and research material.
Drafts, notes, and research material.
Image and text files.
Draft.
Reprint and drafts.
Reprint and drafts.
Drafts.
Drafts.
Draft.
Reprint and drafts.
Reprint, drafts, notes, research material, and correspondence.
Drafts.
Draft.
Drafts.
Reprint, drafts, notes, and research material.
Drafts and research material.
Notes and research material.
Reprint, proofs, notes, and research material.
Reprint and drafts.
Research material and correspondence.
Reprint.
Draft.
Drafts and research material.
Drafts, notes, and research material.
Drafts.
Draft and notes.
Reprint, drafts, and notes.
Reprint, drafts, research material, and correspondence.
Reprints, drafts, notes, and research material.
Reprint, drafts, notes, research material, and correspondence.
Drafts.
Reprint, drafts, notes, research material, and correspondence.
Reprint and drafts.
Reprint, drafts, and correspondence.
Reprint, draft, research material, and correspondence.
Reprint.
Reprint, drafts, notes, research material, and correspondence.
Reprint and drafts.
Reprint, drafts, notes, and research material.
Reprint and drafts.
Reprint, draft, notes, research material, and correspondence.
Reprint.
Draft.
Reprint.
Drafts.
Reprint.
Reprint.
Reprint.
Drafts and research material.
Reprint.
Reprint.
Draft.
Reprint and research material.
Draft and research material.
Draft and research material.
Diagram proofs for publication.
Reprint.
Reprint.
Reprint.
Drafts and research material.
Reprint.
Reprint.
Reprint.
Draft.
Draft.
Draft.
Reprint.
Drafts and research material.
Draft.
Draft and notes.
Reprint.
Reprint.
Copy.
Reprint.
Drafts, notes, and research material.
Copy.
Research material and correspondence.
Reprint.
Copy.
Reprint.
Draft chapter and correspondence.
Drafts, notes, research material, and referee-related correspondence.
Reprint.
Reprint.
Reprint.
Copy and research material.
Copy.
Copy.
Copy and research material.
Drafts and research material.
Reprint.
Reprint.
Reprint.
Draft.
Draft.
Research material.
Draft and research material.
Reprint.
Reprint.
Draft.
Reprint.
Reprint.
Drafts.
Draft.
Draft.
Draft and notes.
Reprint.
Copy.
Copy, drafts, research material, and correspondence.
Reprint and draft.
Draft, notes, and correspondence.
Copy.
Reprint.
Copy.
Reprint.
Reprint.
Reprint.
Untitled draft on money and inflation.
Reprint and copy.
Text files.
Van Huyck's referee reports and related correspondence with journal editors. Arranged alphabetically by author's last name (Van Huyck also added subject or short title).
Text and executable files.
Text and image files.
Text files.
Includes correspondence and submitted papers; Van Huyck co-edited.
Material such as research files, grant proposals, and writings by others that Battalio and Van Huyck kept for reference. The largest files are on the Advanced Research Program (ARP), equilibrium selection, National Science Foundation (NSF), and sovereign debt. Organized into two subseries: Research and Notes and Writings by Others.
Includes notes, plans, proposals, reports, and supporting material. The largest files are on the Advanced Research Program (ARP), equilibrium selection, National Science Foundation (NSF), and sovereign debt. Arranged alphabetically by subject or organization.
Funding proposal and supporting material.
Funding proposals submitted to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
Funding proposals.
Proposal to the Center for Energy and Mineral Resources at TAMU.
Funding proposal and supporting material.
Equipment invoices.
Unlabeled research notes.
For various proposals and projects.
Letter inquiring about Van Huyck's interest in potential fellowship.
List of proposal ideas.
Printout of directory of citations.
Printouts of file trees.
Unlabeled research notes.
Repair instructions.
Funding proposal.
Notes on conversation with Tabellini.
Notes.
Notes.
Notes and draft proposal.
Funding proposals to multiple entities, grant renewals, reporting, and expense tracking.
Notes.
Proposal material.
Research plan.
Funding proposal submitted to the Texas Higher Education Board.
Notes and correspondence.
Expense tracking.
Notes for potential internal grant proposal.
Grant proposals, reporting, and expense tracking.
Notes and research plans.
Software license.
Notes on research ideas.
Outline.
Sample approval and consent forms.
Funding proposal to TAMU.
Calls for proposals for internal grants at TAMU.
Invoices and correspondence on computer equipment for ERL.
Grant proposals, reporting, and expense tracking.
Funding proposal.
Newspaper and magazine clippings.
Software license.
Notes.
Notes on ERL.
Unlabeled research notes.
Notes.
Notes.
Notes.
Grant program material.
Final reports on funded research.
Notes on proposal.
Grant proposal and supporting material.
Grant proposals and expense tracking.
Grant proposal and supporting material.
Notes on proposal.
Outline of grant requirements and notes on grant proposal.
Research agreement.
Grant proposal, supporting material, reporting, and expense tracking.
Grant proposal for "Acquisition and Development of a New Computing Environment" for the Department of Economics.
Grant proposal that Van Huyck contributed to for project on "Reputational Models of Economic Policy," submitted by Herschel Grossman and NBER.
Grant proposal, supporting material, reporting, and expense tracking.
Grant proposal.
Draft grant proposals and supporting material.
Notes on advising conversations.
Notes.
Grant proposal and supporting material for Texas Transportation Institute.
Notes.
Handwritten notes on daily research activities.
Notes.
Notes and material for potential proposals.
Research plan.
Printout of working notes document.
Text, image, executable, dataset, spreadsheet, audio, and backup files; zipped folders.
Information on grants program.
Correspondence on research proposal submitted to Russell Sage Foundation.
Software license.
Readings and notes.
Readings and notes.
Notes.
Correspondence about mailing list.
Notes.
Notes and research plans.
Research proposals for internal grants at TAMU.
Research plan.
Request for proposals.
Notes.
Grant proposal, supporting material, reporting, and expense tracking.
Information on computer monitors.
Of note is a file that contains Rolodex cards that Van Huyck used to index frequently referenced sources. Arranged alphabetically by first letter of lead author's last name or subject.
Articles on animal experimentation in laboratories.
Van Huyck's Rolodex cards of frequently referenced sources.
Image, text, executable, and database files; zipped folder.
Material such as correspondence, experiment data (response sheets, tabulated responses, and printouts of data), statistical data analysis of results, participant instructions, and design notes for Battalio and Van Huyck's experiments on economic decision making and interactions. Data analysis was typically done with software, such as SAS, Stata, and Mathematica, and this series features a majority of the electronic records and audiovisual material.
Battalio and Van Huyck coded their experiments to indicate type and vintage (some experiments were conducted multiple times, presumably with extensions and modifications), and these codes are used as file titles when possible. The most frequently used codes are as follows: BB are beauty contest games inspired by Keynes's example of the workings of financial markets; C or CONV followed by a number are experiments on conventions; CR or CRAW followed by a number are coordination games; DEC followed by a letter and/or number or DX followed by a number are on decentralized allocation decisions; and PD followed by a number are peasant-dictator games. Codes appearing in this series also appear in the Articles and Book Chapters subseries, possibly allowing connections to be made between published writings and experiment files.
Organized into eight subseries: Average Opinion, Chaos, Conventions, Coordination, Decentralized Allocation, Peasant-Dictator, Other Experiments and Related Material, and Uncategorized Electronic Records.
Files for experiments on asset markets, in which participants guess the average opinion of all participants involved. Arranged alphabetically by experiment.
Experiment design notes, participant instructions, response booklets, experiment data, and statistical analyses for price games.
Experiment design notes, participant instructions, response booklets, experiment data, and statistical analyses.
Image and text files; zipped folder.
Experiment data and statistical analyses.
Text, image, and executable files.
Participant response sheets, experiment data, and statistical analyses.
Handouts, questionnaires, participant instructions, experiment data, and statistical analyses.
Questionnaires, sample responses, and statistical analyses.
Text and image files.
Files for experiments on chaotic dynamics, with modifications examining probabilistic matching of participants, zero information, and forecasting. Arranged alphabetically by experiment.
Questionnaires.
Dataset, text, executable, and backup files.
Participant instructions, questionnaires, and experiment data.
Experiment data and statistical analyses.
Text and backup files.
Experiment data, statistical analyses, and notes.
Participant instructions and experiment data.
Text, dataset, executable, and backup files.
Participant instructions, questionnaires, and experiment data.
Text and executable files.
Files for experiments on the emergence of conventions. Several vintages of these experiments were conducted with multiple extensions. In some cases, there is apparent overlap between experiments on the emergence of conventions and coordination experiments. Arranged alphabetically by experiment.
Experiment data and statistical analyses.
Text and dataset files; zipped folders.
Participant instructions, response forms, questionnaires, and experiment data.
Text, image, dataset, and executable files.
Participant instructions, response forms, and experiment data.
Participant instructions.
Text, executable, image, dataset, and backup files.
Participant instructions and experiment data.
Text, image, executable, dataset, and backup files.
Experiment results, statistical analyses, and correspondence.
Questionnaires.
Participant instructions, questionnaires, response forms, and experiment data.
Text, executable, image, and dataset files.
Research outline, experiment data, and statistical analyses.
Participant instructions, questionnaires, experiment data, and notes.
Text, executable, image, and dataset files.
Statistical analyses.
Experiment design notes, experiment data, and correspondence for experiments run in collaboration with David Cooper.
Participant instructions, response forms, experiment data, and statistical analyses.
Participant instructions, response forms, statistical analyses, and research material.
Participant instructions and response sheets.
Text, spreadasheet, executable, dataset, and image files.
Statistical analyses.
Participant response forms, experiment data, statistical analyses, and research material.
Experiment data, statistical analysis, and research material.
Participant instructions, questionnaires, and experiment data.
Text, executable, and dataset files.
Participant instructions, questionnaires, response forms, and experiment data.
Questionnaires, response forms, and experiment data.
Participant instructions and experiment data.
Text and backup files.
Text, audio, image, spreadsheet, dataset, executable, and backup files; zipped folders.
Drafts of figures and data used in publications.
Note and experiment data.
Experiment data and experiment design notes.
Experiment data and statistical analyses.
Questionnaires.
Statistical analyses for stag hunt games with rule learning.
Files for experiments on coordination games. Several vintages of these experiments were conducted with multiple extensions. In some cases, there is apparent overlap between coordination experiments and experiments on the emergence of conventions. Arranged alphabetically by experiment.
Text, dataset, and executable files.
Text, dataset, and executable files.
Participant instructions and response sheets and booklets.
Participant instructions, response sheets and booklets, and experiment data.
Participant instructions, response sheets and booklets, and experiment data.
Participant instructions, response sheets and booklets, and experiment data.
Participant instructions, response sheets and booklets, experiment data, and statistical analyses.
Participant instructions and response booklets.
Participant instructions and response booklets.
Participant instructions, response booklets and forms, and experiment data.
Response booklets and experiment data.
Questionnaires and instructions for using experiment computer system.
Participant instructions, response forms, and statistical analyses.
Dataset files.
Participant instructions and questionnaires.
Experiment data and participant instructions.
Text, executable, image, and dataset files.
Participant instructions and experiment data.
Participant instructions and experiment data.
Text, executable, and dataset files.
Participant instructions, response forms, and experiment data for experiments conducted with Bill Rankin.
Participant instructions and response forms.
Participant instructions and response forms.
Experiment data.
Text, executable, and dataset files.
Participant instructions, response forms, and experiment data for experiments conducted with Beth Seely.
Text, dataset, and executable files.
Participant instructions, response forms, and experiment data.
Text, executable, and dataset files.
Experiment data.
Text, executable, and dataset files.
Experiment system instructions.
Experiment system instructions.
Participant instructions, response forms, and experiment data.
Response forms.
Response forms.
Participant instructions, response forms, and experiment data for experiments conducted with Beth Seely.
Text, executable, and dataset files.
Experiment design notes.
Files for experiments on decentralized allocation, including allocation in markets and the role of historical information in market experiments. Arranged alphabetically by experiment.
Participant instructions, response forms, experiment data, and research notes.
Text, image, and executable files.
Notes, readings, and experiment data.
Participant instructions and response forms.
Text files.
Response forms and experiment data.
Text files.
Experiment design notes, experiment data, participant instructions, and sample response sheets.
Research notes, experiment data, and statistical analyses.
Experiment data.
Research notes.
Text files.
Files for experiments in which participants decide how much to produce (peasants) and how much to tax production (dictators) so that the emergence of norms and conventions can be studied. Arranged alphabetically by experiment.
Experiment data and statistical analyses.
Participant instructions, response forms, experiment data, and statistical analyses.
Text, executable, and dataset files.
Printouts of code and draft charts and tables for analysis.
Participant instructions and response sheets.
Text and executable files.
Experiment data and statistical analyses.
Text, executable, and dataset files; zipped folder.
Response sheets for different roles played in peasant-dictator games.
Experiment data and preliminary analyses for "commitment versus discretion" and "reputation" variations of peasant-dictator games from Battalio's files.
Experiment data, statistical analyses, and participant instructions.
Text and executable files.
Files for experiments that could not reliably be linked to other types. These experiments include random order statistics, games of Nim, and sequential bargaining, among others. Also included are relevant files on software used to conduct experiments and statistically analyize results. Arranged alphabetically by experiment.
Participant instructions and experiment data.
Participant instructions and experiment data.
Text and executable files.
For different experiments deployed using ERL software.
Draft figures and tables for experiments on learning behavior.
Statistical analyses.
Experiment data and statistical analyses.
Notes and experiment data.
Experiment data.
Notes.
Experiment data.
Questionnaires and experiment data.
Notes and response sheets.
Experiment data and statistical analyses.
Image, spreadsheet, text, and executable files.
Experiment data and preliminary writings.
Text files.
Experiment data.
Experiment data.
Dataset and executable files.
Participant instructions and response sheets.
Printout of custom packages used for analyzing experiments.
Participant instructions, response sheets, experiment data, and material related to experiment software.
Text, executable, dataset, and backup files.
Participant instructions and response sheets.
Experiment data and statistical analyses.
Spreadsheet, text, image, and executable files.
Notes and experiment results.
Notes, experiment data, and statistical analyses.
Text, spreadsheet, executable, and image files.
Participant instructions and experiment data.
Executable files.
Experiment design notes, response sheets, experiment data, and statistical analyses.
Participant instructions, questionnaires, response sheets, experiment data, and statistical analyses.
Text, executable, image, and dataset files.
Participant instructions, experiment data, notes, and statistical analyses.
Experiment data.
Text, image, executable, dataset, spreadsheet, audio, backup, and aggregate files; zipped folders.
RL11714-OP-0168 and 0169 include version 2.0.16 and 2.1.4 of z-Tree, a "widely used software package for developing and carrying out economic experiments."
RL11714-FL3-0744 contains a demo of a Bayesian learning experiment that can be played by a single individual against a simulated opponent using DOSBox. This experiment comes from the Economic Science Laboratory at the University of Arizona and is copyrighted 1991-1993.
Notes on experiments on crowding out of public goods.
Participant instructions, response sheets, and experiment data.
Text, executable, and dataset files.
Dataset files.
Dataset files.
Text and dataset files.
Notes and experiment data from experiments on adaptive behavior in rats.
Notes and experiment results.
Experiment data and statistical analyses.
For unlabeled experiment(s).
Experiment design notes.
Dataset files.
Participant instructions and response forms.
Text, image, and executable files.
Response forms.
Text, image, and executable files.
Participant instructions and experiment data.
Participant instructions, response sheets, and experiment data.
Text, dataset, and executable files.
Participant instructions and response forms.
Participant instructions and response forms.
Participant instructions, response forms, and experiment data.
Text, dataset, and executable files.
Participant instructions and response forms.
Text, executable, and dataset files.
Participant instructions, response forms, and experiment data.
Text, executable, and dataset files.
Notes and statistical analyses.
Response forms.
Response forms.
The largest amount are for Ecco, Mathematica, Microsoft Office, Parition Magic, Quattro Pro, SAS, TextBridge, Visual Studio, VS.NET, Windows, and Word Perfect; an inventory is available for request from Research Services.
Anonymized surveys of participant demographic information.
Anonymized surveys of participant demographic information.
Experiment data.
Experiment data.
From unidentified experiments.
From unidentified experiments.
From unidentified experiments.
For unlabeled experiment.
For unlabeled experiment.
For unlabeled experiment.
For unlabeled experiment.
For unlabeled experiment.
Instructions for unlabeled experiment.
For unlabeled experiment.
Instructions for unlabeled experiment.
Response form for unlabeled experiment.
Response form for unlabeled experiment.
For unlabeled experiment.
Response form for unlabeled experiment.
Electronic files from experiments that could not be categorized, either due to lack of identifiers or the disk containing files related to multiple/all experiment types.
Text, executable, image, dataset, spreadsheet, audio, backup, and database files; zipped folders.
Text, executable, dataset, image, spreadsheet, audio, backup, font, presentation, and database files; zipped folders.
The contents of these cartridges are unknown due to format but they are labeled.
Material such as correspondence, university administrative files, student advising files, and teaching material that relate to Battalio and Huyck's careers as academic economists, plus academic coursework and personal material for Van Huyck. Organized into four subseries: Department and University Business, Supervised Dissertations and Theses, Teaching, and Van Huyck Coursework and Personal Items.
Includes administrative files, such as for department and university committee service. The largest file is on the Economics Research Laboratory (ERL), which Battalio and Van Huyck founded in 1997 and used to conduct experiments. Arranged alphabetically.
Van Huyck served on Committee.
Unlabeled administrative material.
Memos.
Unsorted professional and personal material on routine business.
Reports on faculty professional activity.
Material on committee service.
George H. W. Bush Presidential Library in College Station.
Template for notes on phone call.
Notes on phone calls.
Call logs with dates and purpose(s) of communication.
Housing near TAMU.
Material on committee service.
Text, image, spreadsheet, and database files; zipped folders.
Routine business.
Jokes and comic strips.
Meeting notes.
Undergraduate economics major.
Material on managing the lab.
Text, executable, and database files; zipped folders.
Material on establishing an electronic working paper series.
Departmental reviews.
Notes on filing methods.
Van Huyck served on Committee.
Program and other material for memorial service in memory of Van Huyck's doctoral advisor, Herschel Grossman.
Call for nominations.
Material on computer hardware.
Van Huyck served on committee searching for department head.
Battalio served on hiring committee.
Van Huyck's notes on interviews.
Calls for applications.
Student competition to build a replica of Fisher's machine, a hydraulic machine for computing equilibrium prices.
Interdisciplinary faculty retreat.
Various manuals for office equipment.
Template for meeting agenda and notes.
Copies of lecture notes from other economists.
Material on evaluating mathematics programs in Texas public schools.
Call for applications.
Possible revisions to PhD program.
Newspaper clippings kept by Battalio.
Graduate student recruiting.
Material on printing reports.
Van Huyck's endowed professorship.
Faculty workshops and seminars.
Tracking paper citations.
Research team at TAMU.
Summaries of faculty professional activities.
Material and correspondence on Van Huyck's position at TAMU.
Receipts for research materials.
Includes copies and drafts of dissertations and theses, supporting research material, and correspondence. Arranged alphabetically by last name.
Text files.
Text, dataset, executable, image, audio, backup, and spreadsheet files; zipped folders; the largest amount of files are for Bill Rankin and Beth Seely.
Includes syllabi, lecture notes and slides, handouts, assignments, exams, and readings. The largest files are for courses on behavioral game theory, experimental economics, and macroeconomics. Arranged alphabetically by course code or title.
Syllabus and lecture notes.
Course taught by another faculty member.
Field exams.
Field exam and sample responses.
Material for classroom experiments designed by Charles Holt.
Material for classroom experiments.
Copies of course syllabi from other economists kept by Van Huyck.
Syllabi, notes, lecture slides, exams, and other course material.
Notes and material for in-class experiments.
Dataset files.
Notes, lecture slides, handouts, and other course material.
Syllabus and presentation material.
Syllabi, exams, notes, and other course material.
Syllabi, exams, notes, and other course material.
Syllabi, lecture notes and slides, assignments, exams, and readings.
Syllabus.
Lecture notes and readings.
Lecture notes and readings for course based on materials by Alvin Roth.
Copies of Battalio's notes on teaching game theory.
Lecture notes and other course material.
Copy of book used in classes.
Lecture notes and slides and other course material.
Lecture notes on topics in game theory.
Unlabeled by Van Huyck.
Readings lists for macroeconomics courses taught by other economists.
Lecture notes.
Material for macroeconomics PhD field exam.
Material for in-class game by Eric Maskin.
Syllabi from other economists.
Van Huyck's lecture notes based on Thomas Sargent's work.
Notes on topics in game theory.
Text, image, presentation, spreadsheet, dataset, executable, and audio files; zipped folders.
Van Huyck's teaching evaluations.
Notes and handouts on teaching.
Syllabi and other unsorted course material from Van Huyck.
Material for economic theory PhD field exam.
Lecture notes.
Used in classes.
Includes notebooks and term papers from Van Huyck's undergraduate and graduate coursework, plus any personal material. Arranged alphabetically.
Term paper.
Term paper; first in graduate school.
Application.
Term paper.
Draft with notes and comments.
Funding.
Notes on conversations with faculty.
Notecards and poker chips used in games.
Term paper.
Lecture notes for unknown class.
Procedure for submitting dissertation.
Notes on consumer behavior.
Class notes on the history of economic thought.
Class notes on microeconomic theory.
Class notes on econometrics and macroeconomics.
Class notes on programming problems and game theory.
Class notes on bargaining problems.
Notes on possible thesis topics.
Notes on economic ideas and issues.
Term paper.
Materials for Fellowship application.
Term paper.
Draft thesis proposals.
Text, image, audio, aggregate, executable, spreadsheet, database, and dataset files; zipped folders; includes no coursework but a large amount of family material.
Notes on research topics.
The contents of these microcassettes are unknown due to unclear/no labeling and format.
The Richard Bausch Papers, 1965-1998, document the career of the American novelist and short story writer through personal and professional correspondence, manuscripts of published and unpublished works, and printed materials. The Correspondence Series begins in the 1960s with mainly personal letters, but by the 1970s begins to document Bausch's emergent writing career, including mention of his work on early short stories and his acceptance to the Iowa Writers' Workshop. From that point on several prominent American writers and literary figures appear, including frequent correspondence at various times with Charles Baxter, Frederick Busch, Richard Ford, George Garrett, Gordon Lish, William Maxwell, and C.K. Williams; Bausch's agent, Harriet Wasserman; and his twin brother, novelist Robert Bausch. Prominent though less frequent correspondents include Fred Chappell, Alan Gurganus, Barry Hannah, and Jean Thompson. The Writings Series documents the development of Bausch's novels and story collections and consists mainly of typescripts and various stages of proofs. Although most are fair copies or only moderately hand-corrected, the sheer number of versions documents the process of creation. Of special note in this regard are the novels Rebel Powers and Violence. Two smaller series, Printed Materials and Writings by Others, make up the remainder of the collection. Highlights of the latter series include a copy of Bob Balaban's screenplay for the Bausch novel, The Last Good Time, and typescripts of several early stories by Gurganus dating from the 1970s.
Professional and personal correspondence and printouts of e-mail, arranged in chronological incoming and outgoing sequences.
Arranged alphabetically by book title. Folders for single stories are filed after the book titles in a separate alphabetical sequence. Writings in other genres, including poetry, and miscellaneous fragments of fiction manuscripts appear at the end of the series. A number of the typescripts were printed out from diskettes included in the collection; these are marked with a "Disk" number in the upper left hand corner of the first page.
Printed materials by and about Bausch. Includes some early stories in journals, clippings, reviews, publicity material, and miscellaneous other printed items. Arrangement parallels the general structure of the Writings Series: fiction first, followed by writings in other genres and ending with miscellaneous materials about Bausch and other topics.
Typescripts and printed material by various authors, most of it inscribed to Bausch by the authors. Arranged alphabetically by author.
Collection comprises 25 black-and-white and 48 color photographs taken from 2001 to 2012 by Marion Belanger, documenting the intersection of natural and human-built environments.
Belanger's series "Everglades," taken in Florida between 2001-2004, presents black-and-white images of wildlife and natural landscapes affected by the impacts of tourism, agriculture, migrant worker housing, construction, and activities of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the U.S. Army. This series was also published in 2009 as Everglades: Outside and Within.
Her portfolio "Rift/Fault," shot between 2006-2012, documents zones in California and Iceland where the San Andreas Fault and the Mid-Atlantic Rift exist - visibly or invisibly - alongside human environments; subjects in this series include housing developments, monitoring stations, geologic features and landscapes, coastal roads, and geothermal structures such as greenhouses. The images were shot in color and are suffused with pale tonalities. Prints measure 13 1/2 x16 inches. Also published as a photobook in 2012, available in the library.
Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
The collection consists of 25 16x13 inch black-and-white photographs taken from 2001 to 2004 by Marion Belanger, documenting the impact of human land use and demand for water on the Florida Everglades. The images show wildlife and natural landscapes as well as the presence and impacts of tourism, agriculture, migrant worker housing, construction, and the activities of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the U.S. Army.
From the artist's statement:
"...I had seen the Everglades from the plane – a dark nothingness at night, and by day a flat, often wet, expanse of swampland, punctuated by agricultural fields and housing developments. I was curious to experience the natural landscape, of course, but I was even more interested in the determined efforts of engineers, over many years, to eliminate the swamp for sugarcane fields and development profit. To me it was the dark heart of the state. Once I went there the actual place itself was more extreme than I could have imagined – the park itself like a living museum; miles of water control canals, levees, pumps, and dams; empty spaces, acres of emptiness, vast sugarcane fields, and (mostly gated) housing developments. My working process is not to impose the preconceived, but to embrace the unexpected..."
The full artist's statement is available in the portfolio box.
Titles and dates transcribed as they appear on the print versos.
The Everglades project was supported with a 2002 John Simon Guggenheim Fellowship.
These 48 images were taken between 2006 and 2012 in dramatic geological zones in California and Iceland, and, as in Belanger's previous project on the Everglades, she focuses attention on the dual relationship of landscapes and their impact on humans, and humans and their impact on the environment.
From the artist's statement: "Rift/Fault is a study of the shifting land-based tectonic edges of the North American Continental Plate in California and Iceland. Rift refers to where the North American Plate meets the Eurasian Plate, along the Mid-Atlantic Rift in Iceland. Fault refers to the San Andreas Fault, where the North American and Pacific Plates meet. Tectonic plates slide along the mantle of our earth, underneath our oceans, our land, our homes. Tectonic plate edges are geologically active - they spread, move, erupt, and tremble. Their behavior is for the most part unpredictable, and wholly uncontainable. And while boundaries upon the land are often contested, politicized, and fought over, tectonic plate edges remain immune to any human efforts of control. I photographed the visual traces (or not) of the tectonic plate edges upon the land, as well the structures and uses of the built landscape upon those edges, allowing for dialogue between the wild and the contained, the fertile and the barren, the geologic and the human. These dichotomies create a visual tension that questions the uneasy relationship between geologic force, and the limits of human intervention."
The full artist's statement is available in the portfolio box.
Titles and dates are transcribed as they appear on the print versos.
In the inventory, this print is given the alternate title of "Tsunami sign."
Collection includes trade publications, awards booklets, reprints and other printed materials, slides, photographs, audiocassettes and 35mm films. Companies represented include the Associates of the Bell Company; Foote Cone & Belding; Foster & Kleiser; Institute of Outdoor Advertising; Outdoor Advertising Association of America; Outdoor Advertising Incorporated; Southern Outdoor Markets. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
This collection includes sixteen gold-toned, albumen prints, printed from negatives made by William Bell while on the Wheeler Expedition of 1872. Fourteen photographs are from Arizona, and two are from Utah. The primary subjects of this collection are picturesque landscapes made of the Grand Canyon and Colorado River. Some of Bell's photographs from this expedition were used for prints in George M. Wheeler's Report Upon United States Geographical Surveys West of the One Hundredth Meridian...(Washington: GPO, 1875-1889). This collection is composed of one series entitled the Wheeler Expedition of 1872 Series.
The government included photographers on western expeditions to make a visual record of the landscape and its inhabitants. The photographs created during these expeditions served to create maps used to plan for the construction of roads and railways; locate natural resources; facilitate future military operations; as well as to collect ethnographic information on and locate Indian tribes. Perhaps most importantly, the commanders of western expeditions used the resulting photographs as a public relations tool to gain support for future expeditions, and to record geological information, the study of which had become a popular science during the period. By the time of their completion, the surveys had explored much of the region between the Great Plains and the Pacific Coast. This recording made Bell and the other western expeditionary photographers some of the earliest participants in America's tradition of documentary photography.
While in the field, Bell utilized a photographic process somewhat uncharacteristic for his time; he prepared his own dry-plate negatives. This process allowed him to store prepared plates longer than his contemporaries, who used wet plates, but would have also increased the exposure times for his plates.
National Archives negative number: 106-WB-590
National Archives negative number: 106-WB-280
National Archives Number 106-WB-268
National Archives Number: 106-WB-44
The Beloved Community Center is a community-based, grassroots organization dedicated to social activism, advocacy, and uplift in the Greensboro, NC area. The collection comprises printed materials, including reports, event programs, newsletters, and brochures published by the Beloved Community Center between 2002-2013. Topics include local governance, the Greensboro Truth and Reconciliation Commission, and the Greensboro Police Department. Reports include: "A Decade of Building a Spirit of Beloved Community" and "Our Democratic Mission: Transitioning the Greensboro Police Department from Double Standards and Corruption to Accountability and Professionalism." Newsletters and brochures included are: "Towards a New Democratic Conversation: Connecting Mass Movements to Building Local People Power and Governance," "Celebrating 20 Years: A New Era for Greensboro and the Nation," "The Democracy Road: Toward a More Racially Just City, A Sustainable Economy, Good Jobs for All, and Relevant, Equitable Education." Also included is the event program for the "Swearing in and Seating of the Greensboro Truth and Reconciliation Commission." Reports include: "A Decade of Building a Spirit of Beloved Community" and "Our Democratic Mission: Transitioning the Greensboro Police Department from Double Standards and Corruption to Accountability and Professionalism." Newsletters and brochures included are: "Towards a New Democratic Conversation: Connecting Mass Movements to Building Local People Power and Governance," "Celebrating 20 Years: A New Era for Greensboro and the Nation," "The Democracy Road: Toward a More racially Just City, A Sustainable Economy, Good Jobs for All, and Relevant, Equitable Education." Also included is the event program for the "Swearing in and Seating of the Greensboro Truth and Reconciliation Commission."
Acquired as part of the John Hope Franklin Research Center for African and African American History and Culture.
This collection contains correspondence and papers of Bryant Bennett and of his family. Included are mercantile accounts of the firms of Bennett and Hyman in Williamston and of Bennett and Price in Hamilton (both places in Martin County), school letters from a normal school in Oxford, North Carolina, deeds, promissory notes, receipts for land sold for taxes, plantation account books containing household and farm accounts, lists of slaves and supplies issued to them, business records dealing with the marketing of cotton at Norfolk, Virginia, agricultural treatises by one S. W. Outterbridge of Martin County, and letters to Bennett after he had moved to Plymouth, North Carolina, in 1869.
Please note that all folder and item titles in this collection guide have been taken from card catalogs and other inventories created in the early 20th Century.
Please note that all folder and item titles in this collection guide have been taken from card catalogs and other inventories created in the early 20th Century.
The Beth El Synagogue Records are divided into five series: Administration, Jewish History, Photographs, Printed Materials, and Programming. The Administration series contains documents relevant to the congregation's organizational records, and is divided into four subseries: Beth El Preschool, Board and Governance, Correspondence, and Subject Files. Jewish History primarily consists of historical accounts of Jewish life in Durham and Chapel Hill, and includes personal biographies of several congregant members. Photographs document congregant members and synagogue events. The series also includes formal portraits of congregant presidents and rabbis. Printed Materials includes newspaper clippings from throughout the twentieth century, primarily from the Durham Morning Herald. Also includes a variety of professional publications related to Jewish life. Programming includes copies of the synagogue's newsletter, the Beth El Bulletin, assorted service bulletins, and a dedication book to commemorate the construction of the new synagogue on Markham and Watts Streets in Durham. The collection also includes materials related to the Women's League for Conservative Judaism, and the organization of events to celebrate Jewish traditions.
The Administration series contains documents relevant to the congregation's organizational records, and is divided into four subseries: Beth El Preschool, Board and Governance, Correspondence, and Subject Files. Beth El Preschool contains documents from the Carnival of the Arts, including publicity materials and financial summaries. The subseries includes extensive financial records of the preschool, including tax reports, payment records, and supplies expenditures. Also includes teacher applications, letters to parents, and information of the preschool's founding. Arranged alphabetically by folder title.
The Board and Governance subseries contains meeting minutes of the congregation's leadership, including the board of directors and board of trustees, from 1939-2008. Includes several bound volumes of handwritten meeting notes with various handouts taped in, including: form letters, financial reports, budgets, requests, and typed notes. Arranged alphabetically by folder title.
Correspondence mostly consists of official correspondence between the Synagogue leadership with various individuals and official organizations, including the American Association for Jewish Education, American Zionist Youth Commission, Hebrew Theological College, United Synagogue of America, and Yeshiva University. Also includes official correspondence with Rabbi Steven Sagar from the 1980s while he served the congregation. Arranged chronologically by year.
Subject Files contain a variety of organizational records from the synagogue, including financial records, legal papers such as deeds and congregant constitutions, membership lists, staff meeting minutes, Ladies' Aid Society meetings, Beth El Sisterhood meetings, and historical accounts of the synagogue. Also includes two Books of Life, extensive information on funeral rituals and preparation, Chevra Kadisha, and documents pertaining to the centennial celebration in 1987. The documents include ceremony recordings, concert programs, handouts, flyers, some correspondence, exhibit displays, and meeting minutes. Also includes information from the Jewish Ceremonial Art Exhibition at Duke University in 1988, in which the synagogue participated as part of the centennial. One folder includes photocopied advertisements from Jewish businesses in Durham from the 1880s. Arranged alphabetically by folder title.
Flyers, form letters, publicity notes, meeting agendas, reports
Financial summaries
Flyers, handouts, newspaper clippings
Contain photos of preschool activities on display boards
Notes, budgets
Bound volume of billing information and employee payment records
Correspondence, flyer, article
Form letters
Meeting notes, directories
Federal tax documents
Bound volume of handwritten meeting notes with various handouts taped in, including:correspondence, financial reports, budgets, and typed notes
Agendas, meeting minutes
Bound volume of handwritten meeting notes with various handouts taped in, including: form letters, financial reports, budgets, requests, and typed notes
Bound volume of handwritten meeting notes with various handouts taped in, including: form letters, financial reports, budgets, requests, and typed notes
Agendas, congregation letters, financial reports, proposed budgets
Official correspondence with Rabbi Sagar while serving at Beth-El Synagogue
ands
Official correspondence between Beth-El Synagogue and various individuals and official organizations, including the American Association for Jewish Education, American Zionist Youth Commission, Hebrew Theological College, United Synagogue of America, and Yeshiva University
To William Bane, Secretary Durham Zionist District; written in Hebrew
Photocopies of various merchandise advertisements
Form letter, handout, newsletter
Numbered list of archival materials from Beth-El Synagogue
Bound volume of handwritten meeting notes
Form letters, scripts, news clippings, agendas, membership lists
Photocopied photos of original synagogue in downtown Durham, North Carolina
Durham Hebrew Congregation, Beth-El Synagogue
Beth-El Synagogue, Durham, NC; In memory of Louis Gladstein
Includes one MS Publisher file of the "First Annual Beth El Kitchen Calendar" in PUB format.
Notes, meeting minutes, concert programs
Questionnaires
Programs, pamphlets, correspondence, handouts, flyers, news clippings, photographs
Includes congregation signatures, photo of synagogue interior
17 April 1988; three VHS tapes of closing ceremonies, Schpiel Play, and "Torah as Lived by Music and Martin Lakin"
Letters, agreements, receipts
Letters, agreements, clippings
Funeral checklists, summaries, notes
Handbooks, newspaper clipping
Meal of condolence, burial, Chevra
Obituaries, forms, tahara ritual, certificates
Burial plots, funeral checklists, handbooks, plot deeds, condolence emails
Volunteer forms
Handouts, form letters, readings
Certificates, newsletters
Meeting minutes, correspondence
Reports, photograph, booklet
Newspaper clippings, photographs, correspondence
Miscellaneous reports and ledgers
Ledger of synagogue financial transactions
Ledger of financial transactions
Binder of payments for maintenance of cemetary graves
Spreadsheets with synagogue financial data in MS xls format.
Ledger of synagogue financial transactions
Blumenthal, National Foundation for Jewish Culture
Includes guide on how to conduct an interview
Photographs, program, report
Beth-El Synagogue newspaper clippings and building fund correspondence
By Rogoff, Leonard; includes correspondence with author
Photocopies of newspaper clippings and photographs, reports
Typed report
Handwritten and typed accounts of members' history at synagogue
Duke University; newspaper clippings, correspondence, pamphlets, articles, curatorial guide, agendas, draft descriptions
Photographs, pamphlet, letter
Handouts, newspaper clipping photocopies
Flyers of servicemen from Durham, NC
Flyers, handouts
Statement by Terry Sanford
Handouts, flyers, reports
Photographs, captions, newspaper clipping photocopies
Catalogues, flyers
Applications and lists of traveling art shows, correspondence
Proposal guidelines
Information sheets
Puzzle letter sent by Rabbi Steven Sagar to the Bar Mitzvah Class of 1984
Photographs of and correspondence from Beth-El Synagogue rabbis
Receipts, correspondence, expense logs
Class taught by Rabbi Steven Sagar at University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill; syllabus
Documents for Rabbi Steven Sagar's retirement plan
Placement documents
Photocopies of "Nobody Knows You When You're Down and Out" by Jimmy Cox; "Downtown" by Tony Hatch; "Who Will Buy" by Lionel Bart; "Get Me to the Church on Time" by Frederick Loewe
Beth-El Staff
Form letter, script
Planning documents and photographs
Certificate, handouts, correspondence, reports
Flyers, reports
This folder contains an unidentified scroll.
This folder contains two exposed negative cassettes
This folder contains a stamp with the legend "Property of Beth El Sisterhood."
The Jewish History series contains historical accounts of Jewish life in Durham and Chapel Hill, and includes personal biographies of several congregant members. Includes a full manuscript of "History of Jewish Community of Durham and Chapel Hill, 1887-1987" as well as Notes from "From Pine Street to Watts Street: An Oral History of the Jews of Durham, NC." Also includes naturalization papers and petitions from several individuals in the 1910s. Arranged alphabetically by folder title.
Shopiro, Karin; Dachau handout
Notes, outlines, reports
Hanft, Sheldon, Ph.D. and Leonard Rogoff
Swartz, Sam; Hockfeld, Hyman
Certificate in Hebrew
Gruber, Robin
Berman, Samuel
Durham, NC residents
Document file in MS Word format.
Contents of binder; handouts, correspondence
Photographs primarily consists of documentation of congregant members at a variety of synagogue and Beth El Preschool events. Includes a 1900 photograph of the Gladsteins storefront with congregant members, the early Durham Hebrew Congregation, and the original cathedral-style synagogue in downtown Durham. Also includes photos from the Jewish Ceremonial Art exhibition, the photo album, "A Photographic History of Beth El," and formal portraits of congregant presidents and rabbis. Arranged alphabetically by folder title.
Photograph files of people at gatherings and events in JPEG format.
Photographs by Levinsohn, Hunter
Photographs of service projects that include making food and building a house. Images are in JPEG format.
Congregation members involved in various activities at the synagogue
Construction photographs
Main Street, Durham, NC; contains correspondence regarding photograph
Includes photographs taken on a Mavica camera of Judaica in JPG format; there is 1 file in HTML format.
Photograph order forms
Unused photographs from synagogue photograph album; various congregation activities
Contents of photgraph album
120 photograph files in JPEG format.
Cast photograph; play title unknown
Congregation members at various events and synagogue activities
Congregation members at various events and synagogue activities
Congregation members at various events and synagogue activities
Congregation members at various events and synagogue activities
Printed Materials include newspaper clippings from throughout the twentieth century, primarily from the Durham Morning Herald, that pertain to the synagogue, its members, or Jewish life. Includes ephemera from the funeral for the first Jewish mayor of Durham, "Mutt" Evans. The series also contains a book printed in Hebrew, Sidur u-Mahzor, Kol-Bo. The text is the second part of a set of prayer books that include daily prayers, prayers for high holidays such as Rosh Ha-shanah and Yom Kippur, liturgical poems, and the psalms, among others. Arranged alphabetically by folder title.
United Jewish Appeal
Newspaper Clippings
Newspaper Clippings
By Spoleto, Piccolo
Newspaper clippings
Handbooks on Jewish religious events
2-disc CD set on "supporting environmental education and activism in conservative/Masorti communities". Document, photograph, and video files are in JPEG, PDF, MS Powerpoint PPS, HTML, CSS, MPEG-2, and VOB formats.
Newspapers, photograph
Beth-El Sisterhood
Durham Morning Herald, Durham Herald
Union of American Hebrew Congregations
Newsletters, pamphlets
In Hebrew: Sidur Mahazor Kol-bo, second part. Published in Vilna, 1923.
Programming includes copies of the synagogue's newsletter, the Beth El Bulletin, assorted service bulletins, and a dedication book to commemorate the construction of the new synagogue on Markham and Watts Streets in Durham. Also includes welcome booklets, and miscellaneous handouts and programs. Arranged alphabetically by folder title.
Beth-El congregation
Synagogue dedication book
Drafts and proofs of dedication book
Evans, Emanuel Joshua "Mutt"; Evans, Sara Nachamson
Programs from assorted temple services
Programs from assorted temple services
Collection comprises a series of memoranda written by company staff. Training topics address various aspects of the marketing process, as well as advertising for regional or specialized consumer markets, including the "modern woman." Other topics include selling through contests, sampling, and installment plans, in addition to department or chain stores, grocers, and outdoor advertsing; advertsing copy, teams, budgets, and costs; packaging; newspaper advertising; trademarks; the use of artwork; and salesmens' education and pay. There are also research reports, as well as an address by M. L. Wilson on industrial advertsing. The memoranda were housed in a binder, and there are tabbed dividers that provide the titles of each piece; many also feature a list of companies for whom Blackman worked or a list of staff writers for the series. It is unclear whether the material was meant for in-house use only. There are copywrite symbols that may indicate that the material was available to train those outside the company as well. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Collection contains primarily correspondence and printed materials. There are also three unidentified and undated black-and-white photographs, along with a few items representing the Livingston family, including a genealogy developed by Helen Thomas Blackwell. The correspondence contains mostly routine letters to from other family members to Alice Stone Blackwell, Anna M. Blackwell, Elizabeth Blackwell, Emma Blackwell, Helen Blackwell, Henry B. Blackwell, and Lucy Stone. There are also several postcards mailed to the Woman's Journal regarding subscriptions, address changes and other matters related to publication, or the editor's business acquaintances. There are several printed materials written by Blackwell authors, including "Philosophy of Re-Incarnation" by Anna Blackwell, and "Medicine & Morality," "Scientific Method in Biology," and “Erroneous Method in Medical Education" by Elizabeth Blackwell. However, the series primarily features printed items that were maintained in the Blackwell family library. Also contains a corrected typescript (1940s) of Ishbel Ross' Life of Elizabeth Blackwell along with notes from 1958 on the Elizabeth Blackwell award at Smith College.
Comprises mostly routine correspondence to Blackwell family members from other family members; including Alice Stone Blackwell, Anna M. Blackwell, Elizabeth Blackwell, Emma Blackwell, Helen Blackwell, Henry B. Blackwell, and Lucy Stone. Topics include suffrage meetings, the election of Theodore Roosevelt, reading and other pastimes, and general education. A letter from Henry B. Blackwell mentions inviting Frederick Douglass and his wife, Helen Pitts Douglass (editor of The Alpha, suffragist, feminist, abolitionist) "to some private house, where his color would not be made an objection" written on Office of American Woman Suffrage Association letterhead. There are several postcards mailed to the Woman's Journal regarding subscriptions, address changes and other matters related to publication, or the editor's business acquaintances.
Material comprises a letter Blackweel wrote to an unidentified gentleman, probably between 1880-1895, following her retirement from the medical profession. During this time, Blackwell was actively involved in many different reform movements, including women’s rights, antivivisection, sanitation, and moral reform. This letter contains Elizabeth Blackwell’s lengthy critique of William Ewart Gladstone’s 1886 Irish Home Rule Bill. Blackwell’s letter begins: ‘Dear Sir, No one desires more strongly than I, that a just system of Irish government should be substituted for the unjust “Castle” system. I therefore profoundly regret that Mr. Gladstone has not been able to see that his present scheme destroys the Imperial Parliament, and insists upon treating the absence of Irish members as a “detail.” I can only hope therefore that the Govt. Bill will be thrown out, and that no member supporting it, will be returned to Parliament.” William Ewart Gladstone, served as Prime Minister four separate times: (1868–1874, 1880–1885, February–July 1886 and 1892–1894). In early 1886, Gladstone proposed Irish Home rule but this was defeated in the House of Commons in July. Four other pages of undated notes on the topic accompany the letter. Includes a transcript for the letter.
Contains three uncaptioned black-and-white photographs. Two are cabinet cards. Images feature two unidentified women, a baby, and a dog.
Contains a 1972 Livingston family genealogy created by Helen T. Blackwell along with an undated article on the disputed authorship of "'twas the Night Before Christmas," possibly written my Major Henry Livingston Also includes original poetry by Jeannie Livingston Hubbard Denig, 1934-1976.
Series comprises a few printed materials written by Blackwell authors, including "Philosophy of Re-Incarnation" by Anna Blackwell, and "Medicine & Morality," "Scientific Method in Biology," and Erroneous Method in Medical Education" by Elizabeth Blackwell. However, the series primarily features printed items that were maintained in the Blackwell family library. Also contains a corrected typescript (1940s) of Ishbel Ross' Life of Elizabeth Blackwell along with notes from 1958 on the Elizabeth Blackwell award at Smith College.
The Annie Lois Newkirk Blakely Papers, 1870-1988, contain chiefly correspondence and diaries but also include legal papers, pictures, and clippings. The collection primarily documents the life of Blakely as a Clinton, S.C. housewife and mother, and of her children, Florence Ella Blakely and Ann Newkirk Blakely McLeod. Much of the Correspondence Series consists of personal letters by family members and friends written to Annie Lois Newkirk Blakely, her husband Ralph Royd Blakely, daughters Florence Ella Blakely (a Duke University librarian), and Ann Newkirk Blakely McLeod. A large portion of this series contain correspondence (1921-1978) between Annie and Ralph Blakely before they were married. Although the Diaries Series (1927-1978) contains primarily the journals of Annie Lois Newkirk Blakely, other family members Florence Ella Blakely and Inez Robertson Blakely, are also included. The Pictures Series contains family photographs of vacations, holidays, and weddings. The Legal Papers Series primarily contains banking and investment correspondence, as well as personal legal Items, such as Annie Blakely's discharge papers from the U.S. Army and Ralph Blakely's discharge papers from the U.S. Navy after World War I. The Miscellaneous Series includes War Ration Books from the 1940s and photocopied newspaper clippings that pertain to the Blakely and Newkirk families.
Includes personal letters of Annie Lois Newkirk Blakely, Florence Ella Blakely, Ralph Blakely, Ann Newkirk and letters addressed to both Mr. and Mrs. Blakely. Correspondence between Annie Lois and Ralph Blakely while dating during the early 1920s is most prominent. Arranged by recipient in chronological order by day, month and year.
Primarily contains diaries of Annie Lois Blakely and other family members including Florence Ella Blakely and Inez Robertson Blakely. Annie Lois Blakely's diaries disclose information recording her day to day activities. Entries vary from detailed writings to a few short sentences. Arranged in chronological order.
Contains papers regarding the legal affairs of Annie and Ralph Blakely and their children. Includes papers including bank and investments statements. Also contains War Ration Books from World War II and information regarding Annie's reserve and active service in the U.S. Army Nurse Corps, 1918-1922 . Contains discharge of Yeoman 1st-Class Ralph Blakely, U.S.S. Hartford, U.S. Navy, 1919 .
Includes family, vacation, and wedding photographs. Arranged chronologically.
Includes acid-free photocopies and originals of newspaper clippings.
Includes miscellaneous items including an address book, calendar, and other items. Arranged in chronological order.
Collection includes correspondence, financial and research reports, client and new business presentations, speeches, policy manuals, booklets and other printed materials, as well as videocassettes and print advertisements that document Blaney's work in client services, staff training and general management at Ogilvy & Mather. Companies represented include American Express, Chesebrough-Pond's, Nestle, Procter & Gamble, Shell, SmithKline Beecham and Unilever. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
School for Bus Drivers; King Kong; The Driving Instructor; Abe Lincoln Versus Madison Avenue; Cruise of the USS Codfish; Defusing the Bomb; Nude Line Up; Introducing Tobacco to Civilization; The Retirement Party
Harry Groome and Louise Sibley. Aquafresh commercials from 6 countries
The Story Behind the Doors; Executional Guidelines for Television
Dove: Jean Shy (US); Viviana Sehweret (US Hispanic); Veronique Marty (France); Raffaela Davi (Italy); Joanne Chong (Singapore). Pond's: Age-Defying Complex, Prevent and Correct (US); Cleansing Milk and Toner (UK); Skin Lightening Cream (Thailand); Crema C (Mexico); Vanishing Cream (Nairobi)
Commercials from Microsoft, Kraft, AT&T
Paradiso (Germany); Mirage (France); other commercials
3.5 disk, IBM format. Contents: Board Meeting minutes Zurich June 1995; Executive Committee meeting minutes; Treasurer's Report 1994-1995; Fiscal Report 1994-1995; Chapter Development Summary; Corporate Development Summary; Action Plan 1995-1996
The Leo Bogart Papers span the years 1912-2005 and document Bogart's professional work with the Newspaper Advertising Bureau; as a mass media expert; and as an author and public speaker. The collection includes correspondence, clippings, articles, speeches, books, journals, chapters, drafts, proposals, notes, reports, scrapbooks, resumes, interviews, schedules, programs, pamphlets, administrative records, research materials, publications, promotional materials, ephemera, yearbooks, student papers, military records, photographs, negatives, and slides. Materials represent Bogart's professional work as Vice President and General Manager of the Newspaper Advertising Bureau, as well as his early employment with Standard Oil (New Jersey), McCann-Erickson, and Revlon, Inc.; as a prolific author and public speaker; as a Senior Fellow with the Gannett Center for Media Studies at Columbia University; and as a mass media consultant with the Innovation International Media Consulting Group. The bulk of files relate to research on U.S. markets, although some files do cover international research projects. Topics include newspaper marketing research; newspaper readership; newspaper advertising; television and society; critiques of mass media; social science research methodology; and international newspapers in emerging markets. The collection also documents Bogart's early experiences as a student and as a soldier in the U.S. Army Signal Corps during World War II, which formed the basis for several of his writing projects.
Consists of correspondence, clippings, fiction and nonfiction writings, notes, student papers, brochures, pamphlets, ephemera, drawings, yearbooks, scrapbooks, awards, military documents, photographs, and memorabilia that document Bogart's personal life. Series is divided into two categories: Student materials and Other materials.
Student materials consists of materials accumulated by Bogart over his student career at P.S. 99 Junior High School; Erasmus Hall High School; Brooklyn College; and the University of Chicago. Materials include student assignments and papers and materials relating to Bogart's work as editor-in-chief of Vanguard, a student paper of Brooklyn College.
Other materials includes clippings on topics of personal interest to Bogart; fiction writings; and materials documenting Bogart's military service as a voice interceptor in the U.S. Army Signal Corps from 1942-1946. Lengthy fiction writings include The Temple of Janus, an unfinished sociological novel that Bogart developed for a writing competition, and The Argument. Several of Bogart's published writings were based in part on his experiences in the U.S. Army, including the article Soldier Thinking (1943) and the books Social Research and the Desegregation of the U.S. Army (1969) and How I Earned the Ruptured Duck: Behind the Lines in WWII (2003), which may be found in the Writings & Speeches Subseries. Arranged alphabetically.
Consists of correspondence, clippings, articles, speeches, books, journals, chapters, drafts, proposals, notes, reports, scrapbooks, resumes, interviews, schedules, programs, pamphlets, administrative records, research materials, publications, promotional materials, and photographs that document Bogart's professional career. Series is divided into nine subseries: Biographical Materials Subseries; Conferences and Meetings Subseries; Correspondence Subseries; Early Career Subseries; Late Career Subseries; Newspaper Advertising Bureau (NAB) Subseries; Professional Service Subseries; Research Files Subseries; and Writings and Speeches Subseries.
The Biographical Materials Subseries documents events and activities in Bogart's professional life, and includes clippings; interviews; correspondence; schedules; scrapbooks; and resumes.
The Conferences and Meetings Subseries includes materials relating to conferences, seminars, meetings, and symposia in which Bogart participated. For materials relating to meetings and conferences in which Bogart gave a speech and a written record of the speech remains, see the Writings and Speeches Subseries. Arranged chronologically.
The Correspondence Subseries consists of general and topical professional correspondence and is divided into five categories: Academic, Newspapers and print media, Organizations and businesses, People, and Miscellaneous. Arranged alphabetically within categories.
The Early Career Subseries documents Bogart's professional career from 1951-1960, during which time Bogart worked as a Fulbright Research Fellow, and as a advertising and marketing researcher with Standard Oil Company of New Jersey; McCann-Erickson; and Revlon, Inc. The series includes the paper Bogart wrote as a Fulbright Fellow, Les Algérians en France; radio program audience research; and Revlon materials on quiz show fraud during the 1950s. Arranged topically and therein alphabetically.
The Late Career Subseries documents Bogart's activities from 1989-2005 after he retired from the Newspaper Advertising Bureau. It includes materials related to Bogart's Gannett Center for Media Studies fellowship (later renamed the Freedom Forum Media Studies Center); newspaper consulting projects for the Freedom Forum; role as Director and Senior Consultant for Innovation International Media Consulting Group; and role as media expert in two trials in the 1990s, Chandler v. Jackson (Michael Jackson child molestation lawsuit) and Valenzuela v. Hughes Aircraft Company (TCE groundwater contamination lawsuit in Tuscon, Arizona). Slides of presentations given at the Freedom Forum Russian newspaper workshop and photographs of the trip are located in the Photographs and Slides Series. Presentation scripts are in Russian and English and slide text is in Russian. Videocassette tapes of media coverage of Michael Jackson and TCE groundwater contamination in Arizona are located in the Audiovisual Materials section. Arranged alphabetically.
The Newspaper Advertising Bureau (NAB) Subseries documents Bogart's twenty-nine year executive career with the Newspaper Advertising Bureau (NAB), the advertising and marketing organization for the newspaper industry. Bogart began work with the NAB as Vice President of Marketing Planning and Research in 1960 and was promoted to Executive Vice President and General Manager in 1966. Bogart was the architect of many of the major research studies conducted during his tenure with the NAB. Bogart led two major research projects, the Newspaper Readership Project from 1977-1983 and the Future of Advertising Project from 1979-1988. The goal of the Newspaper Readership Project was to make recommendations to reverse declines in newspaper readership that begun in the 1920s and were threatening the vitality of the newspaper industry during the 1970s and 1980s. The Future of Advertising Project was formed shortly afterward to address newspapers' decline in national advertising revenues that began in the 1960s due largely to the rise of television. Recommendations from the Future of Advertising Project led to standardization in advertising formats and invoices across newspapers. This subseries is divided into three sections: General, Newspaper Readership Project, and Future of Advertising Project. General consists mainly of materials related to various research projects at the NAB. For slides of NAB presentations, see the Photographs & Slides Series. Speeches and presentations in this subseries report directly on the workings of the NAB; for all other speeches, see the Writings and Speeches Subseries. Arranged alphabetically within category except for speeches and meetings, which are arranged chronologically.
The Professional Service Subseries documents Bogart's membership and service in professional organizations and clubs and on committees and advisory boards. Arranged alphabetically by organization.
The Research Files Subseries consists of clippings, writings, and notes on various subjects that Bogart maintained for reference and as source material for his writings, speeches, and research. Arranged alphabetically by topic.
The Writings and Speeches Subseries documents 149 speeches; 195 published articles; 14 books; book chapters and contributions; and other written materials Bogart produced over his career. Also includes articles for a monthly column in Presstime that Bogart wrote from 1989-2005. The subseries is divided in five sections: Speeches, Articles, Books, Book chapters and contributions, and Unpublished writings and drafts. Writings are arranged chronologically by date of publication, or for unpublished writings, creation date. Speeches are arranged chronologically by date of delivery.
Documents milestones and activities in Bogart's professional life, and includes clippings; interviews; correspondence; schedules; scrapbooks; and resumes. Arranged alphabetically.
Documents Bogart's participation in conferences and meetings. Bogart participated in these events in a number of ways, including organizing conferences; serving on panel discussions; and giving informal remarks. For written speeches by Bogart and related materials, see the Writings and Speeches Subseries. Arranged chronologically.
Consists of general and topical professional correspondence divided into five categories: Academic, Newspapers and print media, Organizations and businesses, People, and Miscellaneous. Arranged alphabetically.
Documents Bogart's professional career from 1951-1960, during which time Bogart worked as a Fulbright Research Fellow, and as a advertising and marketing researcher with Standard Oil Company of New Jersey; McCann-Erickson; and Revlon, Inc. The series includes the paper Bogart wrote as a Fulbright Fellow, Les Algérians en France; research on radio program listeners; and Revlon materials on quiz show fraud during the 1950s. Arranged topically and therein alphabetically.
After Bogart retired from the Newspaper Advertising Bureau, he was nominated a fellow with the Gannett Center for Media Studies for the 1989-1990 academic year. As a fellow, Bogart received support while completing his book Commercial Culture: The Media System and the Public Interest. For materials related to this book, see the Writings and Speeches Subseries. Bogart continued a relationship with the Gannett Center, which became financially independent from the Gannett Broadcasting Group in 1991 and was renamed the Freedom Forum Media Studies Center. On behalf of the Freedom Forum, Bogart advised the Oakland Tribune on how to restructure their business in 1991 and organized a newspaper advertising workshop in Russia and Eastern Europe in 1992.
Bogart spent much of his late career sharing his newspaper industry and mass media expertise. As Director and Senior Consultant for Innovation International Media Consulting Group, Bogart advised newspapers, particularly in Spain, Latin America, Russia, and Eastern Europe; and assessed the state of newspapers and mass media for Innovation publications and conferences. Bogart also shared his knowledge about the mass media with attorneys as a media expert in two very public trials in the 1990s, Chandler v. Jackson (Michael Jackson child molestation lawsuit) and Valenzuela v. Hughes Aircraft Company (TCE groundwater contamination lawsuit in Tuscon, Arizona).
Slides of presentations given at the Freedom Forum workshop and photographs of the trip are located in the Photographs and Slides Series. Presentation scripts are in Russian and English and slide text is in Russian. Videocassette tapes of media coverage of Michael Jackson and TCE groundwater contamination in Arizona are located in the Audiovisual Materials section. Arranged alphabetically.
Documents Bogart's twenty-nine year executive career with the Newspaper Advertising Bureau (NAB), the advertising and promotion organization for the newspaper industry. Bogart began work with the NAB as Vice President of Marketing Planning and Research in 1960 and was promoted to Executive Vice President and General Manager in 1966. During his tenure with the NAB, Bogart was the architect of most of the major research studies. Bogart led two major research projects, the Newspaper Readership Project from 1977-1983 and the Future of Advertising Project from 1979-1988. The goal of the Newspaper Readership Project was to make recommendations to reverse declines in newspaper readership that begun in the 1920s and were threatening the vitality of the newspaper industry during the 1970s and 1980s. The Future of Advertising Project was formed shortly afterward to address newspapers' decline in national advertising revenues that began in the 1960s due largely to the rise of television. Recommendations from the Future of Advertising Project led to standardization in advertising formats and invoices across newspapers. This subseries is divided into three sections: General, Newspaper Readership Project, and Future of Advertising Project. General consists mainly of materials related to various research projects at the NAB. For slides of NAB presentations, see the Photographs & Slides Series. Speeches and presentations in this subseries report directly on the workings of the NAB; for all other speeches, see the Writings and Speeches Subseries. Arranged alphabetically within category except for speeches and meetings, which are arranged chronologically.
Documents Bogart's membership and service in professional organizations and clubs and on committees and advisory boards. Arranged alphabetically.
Consists of clippings, writings, and notes on various subjects that Bogart maintained for reference and as source material for his writings, speeches, and research. Arranged alphabetically by topic.
Documents 149 speeches; 195 published articles; 14 books; book chapters and contributions; and other written materials Bogart produced over his career. Also includes articles for a monthly column in Presstime that Bogart wrote from 1989-2005. The subseries is divided in five sections: Speeches, Articles, Books, Book chapters and contributions, and Unpublished writings and drafts. For speeches that directly report on Newspaper Advertising Bureau activities, see the Newspaper Advertising Bureau (NAB) Subseries. Writings are arranged chronologically by date of publication, or for unpublished writings, creation date. Speeches are arranged chronologically by date of delivery.
Consists of photographs, slides, and negatives that document Bogart's personal and professional life. Photographs chiefly document professional meetings and conferences. Slides, which make up the bulk of this series, include Newspaper Advertising Bureau presentation slides; Freedom Forum Russia workshop slides; and family vacation and travel slides. Arranged chronologically.
Presentations scripts are in English and Russian and slide text is in Russian. Workshop scripts and correspondence are located in the Freedom Forum Subseries and photographs of the trip are located in the Photographs and Slides Series.
[Copy of diploma of Bogart's father, Iakov Abramovich Bugaevskii, conferring a degree in law from the Imperial Russian University in Odessa.]
Consists of videocassettes, DVDs, audiocassettes, CDs, and floppy disks, featuring or collected by Bogart. Many of the videocassettes were used for Bogart's work as a mass media expert in two trials, Chandler v. Jackson (Michael Jackson child molestation lawsuit) and Valenzuela v. Hughes Aircraft Company (TCE groundwater contamination lawsuit in Tuscon, Arizona).
Addition contains primarily personal materials relating to Bogart's service during World War II; correspondence with family, spouse Agnes Bogart, and Israel Goldiamond; childhood art and creative writing. There are also materials relating to Brooklyn College when Bogart attended, including material on the anticommunist movement there.
Includes materials relating to Abraham Lincoln assassination; Spanish Civil War; Mussolini; Nazi Germany; World War II; Franklin Roosevelt; Harry S Truman
(1914-2004) Heinig's family fled Germany in the 1930s and eventually settled in the U.S. Heinig served in U.S. military intelligence, as did Bogart, during World War II. After the war Heinig worked in pharmaceutical sales.
In Election Polls, the News Media, and Democracy, ed. Paul J. Lavrakas and Michael W. Traugott; Chatham House
(1950-2008) Historian of science; married to Michele Bogart 1981.
In Election Polls, the News Media, and Democracy, ed. Paul J. Lavrakas and Michael W. Traugott; Chatham House
Handwritten notes on a trip to Chad and western Africa; includes a brief mention of a chance encounter with linguist Alan S. Kaye.
These two large photograph albums were owned by Wilbur E. Hagans, who toured the area of Palestine known as the Holy Lands around 1881. He purchased dozens of souvenir albumen prints from the studio, then upon his return had the cloth-bound albums assembled in New York. The 56 images date from about 1881 and were taken by noted 19th-century French photographer Félix Bonfils, who owned the Bonfils studio, and his Syrian assistant Georges Saboungi. They portray cities and towns, landscapes, ruins, monuments, tombs, and other religious and historic sites of Palestine, in areas now occupied by Israel, Lebanon, and Syria. Locations named in the captions include Beirut, Bethlehem, Cana, Damascus, Galilee, the Holy Sepulchre shrine, Jaffa, Jerusalem, the Mosque of Omar at the Dome of Rock, the Mount of Olives, Mount Tabor, Nazareth, Samaria, the Tomb of David, the Wailing Wall, the interior of the house of the English Consul in Damascus, a "crusader's tower" in the village of Ramleh, and various other sites. In some cases there are small figures visible among the landscapes, but these are the only individuals present in the images.
The two albums measure 14 x 18 inches (37 x 47.5 centimeters); Volume I holds 30 albumen prints, while Volume II holds 26 prints. The prints all measure 9 x 11 inches (22 x 28 centimeters) and are affixed to card mounts, one per print. Some show signs of fading, but most are in good condition. Each print bears the name of one of two photographers: Félix Bonfils (18 prints), or Georges Saboungi (38 prints); some prints are also marked with an identification number assigned by the studio, and these have been included in the inventory.
The photographer's name appears following the title for each print. All titles are taken from the original captions; original French captions have not been transcribed but appear with each print. When known, the image negative numbers assigned by the studio have been included in the description; all of these were taken by Félix Bonfils. Box 1 contains information on the collection, including photocopied articles on the history of the Bonfils photography studio.
Collection comprises two letters and small handbill. Booth wrote one letter to a Mrs. Wallace on 1899 February 19, describing setting up a "Home" for men released from Joliet State Prison, and requesting that Wallace commit to a yearly donation of a hundred dollars or more towards the support of the halfway house in Illinois. Booth wrote the other letter to Alice Boughton on 1905 January 27, regarding a photographic portrait to be completed by Boughton. The handbill is for Booth's presentation "Making Good," to be held in New York City on [1902?] December 28.
Letter to Mrs. Wallace, describing setting up a "Home" for men released from Joliet State Prison, and requesting that Wallace commit to a yearly donation of a hundred dollars or more towards the support of the home. On Booth's leeterhead.
Typescript letter, signed Maud B. Booth, written to Alice Boughton, regarding a photographic portrait to be completed by Boughton. On Prison League, Volunteers of America, stationary.
Handbill for Booth's presentation "Making Good," to be held in New York City.
Collection dates from 1802 to 1822 and chiefly comprises letters from Bostock to Marcet, along with two letters from Marcet to Bostock, and a transcription of a few paragraphs from letters from 1816. The letters touch upon matters personal (e.g. Bostock's move from Liverpool to London) and professional. Includes references to many contemporary European physicians and scientists. The collection documents the typical research and administrative opportunities available to a British medical practitioner of the early nineteenth century. Forms part of the Trent Manuscripts Collection and was acquired as part of the History of Medicine Collections at Duke University.
Collection includes print materials, posters, sketches, greeting cards, correspondence, as well as audiovisual materials in multiple formats (DVDs, tape reels, and film reels) that document Boston's career in advertising and graphic design as well as his academic life at California State University-Long Beach. Companies represented include California Plum, Raisin and Apple Advisory Boards, FMC, Motorola, Pentel, Raytheon and Yamaha. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Includes photographs, memoranda, posters, newsletters, and press mentions all pertaining to Archie Boston's activity in the ADLA
AIGA (American Institute of Graphic Art) awards as well as other advertising awards.
AIGA awards as well as other advertising awards. Also includes an award from the California State Assembly recognizing Archie Boston's Outstanding Professor of the Year Award (2004).
Correspondence includes Archie Boston's transition from the Botsford & Ketchum ad agency to academia and thank you letters from various individuals throughout Archie Boston's career.
Press clippings, interviews, scripts, drafts, and shooting schedule all pertaining to the documentary Black Pioneers of the Sunshine City. Digital copy of the documentary is located in the AV files, RL11673-OP-004.
Table of contents for DVD series, see RL11673-OP-025.
Correspondence and catalogs for "Visual Perception"; "Back to the Future"; and "Designs of Dissent" exhibits
Includes correspondence between Boston and the California Museum of Science and Industry on Boston's exhibit on the Watts Riot Festival. Also includes photos from Boston's MA Thesis that were to be part of this exhibit. The remainder of these photos can be found in Box 6.
Photos of the Watts Riot Festival that were part of Boston's MA Thesis and that were set to feature in an exhibition at the California Museum of Science and Industry (exhibition was canceled). The remainder of these photos can be found in Box 1 in "Exhibition Materials."
Mentions of Archie Boston's design work and/or competitions he has judged. From 1963 to the early 1970s.
Mentions of Archie Boston's design work and/or competitions he has judged. From 1971 to 1978.
Mentions of Archie Boston's design work and/or competitions he has judged. From 1980 to 2017.
Newspaper and newsletter clippings.
Contains correspondence, M.A. thesis, and Outstanding Professor Award materials from California State University-Long Beach as well as miscellaneous university designs and publications.
Includes Outstanding Professor Award materials, Wang Family Excellence Award application, and post-tenure review files all from California State University-Long Beach.
Includes miscellaneous designs, posters, and newsletters from California State University-Long Beach.
Includes miscellaneous posters related to California State University Long Beach.
clients include Braemar, Yamaha, and the California Plum, Raisin and Apple Advisory Board
Clients include Braemar, Yamaha, and the California Plum, Raisin and Apple Advisory Board
Includes ads for Motorola, FMC Corporation, Varian, Braemar, Yamaha, Raytheon, Galaxy Homes
Includes ads for Motorola, FMC Corporation, Varian, the California Plum, Raisin, and Apple Advisory Board, among other companies.
Advertisements for Lloyds Bank designed during Boston's employment at Botsford & Ketchum. Television advertisements for Lloyds Bank can be found in AV 3 RL. 11673
Includes the ad "I told them what to do with their pens." Assortment of undated Pentel ads but the date range covers the period of time Archie Boston worked at Botsford & Ketchum
Includes the ad "I told them what to do with their pens." Assortment of undated Pentel ads but the date range covers the period of time Archie Boston worked at Botsford & Ketchum
Includes the ad "I told them what to do with their pens." Assortment of undated Pentel ads but the date range covers the period of time Archie Boston worked at Botsford & Ketchum
Includes the "For Sale" ad and the "Uncle Tom" ad.
Includes logo designs and posters for social causes and other designs.
Designs for Centinela Hospital and self-promotional ads.
self-promotional ads and public service ads
self-promotional ads and public service ads
Prints of digital images on RL11673-OP-001
Ads designed for ADLA including the Santa Claus ad and the "Call for Entries" ad.
Archie-Boston designed holiday cards and stationery. Other designs and cards can be found in Box 8.
Archie Boston-designed greeting and holiday cards. Other designs can be found in Box 1, "Holiday cards."
Ad sketch designs from when Boston was a Master's student.
Hard copy of posters can be found in Box 1
Documentary written and produced by Archie Boston on the history of segregation in his native St. Petersburg, Florida. Notes and preparatory materials for the documentary can be found in Box 1.
A set of interviews Archie Boston conducted with designers in LA in 1986, includes a Q&A. Spans from RL11673-OP-007 to RL11673-OP-024.
Part of a retrospective exhibition. The list of chapters in this DVD collection can be found in "Exhibitions" in Box 1.
Collection comprises a single autograph manuscript note (dated 1946 December 14) on letterhead stationery from the Ambassador Hotel, Chicago. Photographer Margaret Bourke-White writes to the comic book editor Mort Weisinger, "It's a good story and I like it very much. Ought to be swell with the cartoons." Bourke-White likely refers to a comic book about her life published in 1947.
Primarily the diaries of Mr. Bower, which date from 1883 to 1930 and concern his personal and business affairs. Entries refer to various organizations Bower worked for, including: the Pacific Fire Insurance Company of New York; the Chicago, St. Paul, Minneapolis and Omaha Railroad in New York; the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad Company in Cleveland; and the New York Central Railroad Company in Cleveland. Other entries concern life in Middlefield, Ohio, where Bower was born; Ohio Business University in Cleveland; and Bower's ties to the Masons, the Presbyterian Church, and the Sons of Union Veterans. A memorandum book (1844-1849), written by an unidentified student, contains a section describing life in Columbia Seminary, a Presbyterian school. Other materials include: address and daybooks, clippings, and photographs. One clipping quoting Bowers' aunt identifies her father as abolitionist who assisted runaway slaves; another is an obituary of Enoch E. Kile, who was perhaps related to Bowers. Also includes a Bible given in 1861 to Bower's uncle, who served in the Civil War.
The collection includes Boykin's manuscripts, drafts, and writings on various subjects including African American history, Black Power, AIDS, and North Carolina history. Contents range from draft to published versions of his many texts. Also includes school records and transcripts, diplomas, and copies of Boykin's dissertation from Heed University. The collection also contains a number of books from Boykin's personal library, covering topics such as African American history and culture, politics, and teaching techniques. The final portion of the collection contains unidentified microfilm rolls, believed to hold copies of Boykin's articles.
Includes manuscripts, writings, and other materials by Boykin on subjects such as African American history, religious history, imperialism, and foreign relations. Along with his writings, Boykin's papers include lecture notes and drafts, graduate school transcripts, clippings, and diplomas.
Unidentified microfilm reels; potentially they hold more of Boykin's writings.
Assorted published books from Boykin's personal library, including texts on African Americans in American culture, film, politics, and war, as well as some texts on teaching American history.
Collection comprises an autograph letter, signed E. V. B., written by Boyle to Mr. [L?]awley on May 11, regarding payment for wine glasses and his portrait in the Pall Mall Magazine. On her Huntercombe Manor, Maidenhead, letterhead.
Collection consists of ten handwritten spiral-bound volumes containing the memoirs of Duke alumna Carol Georgette Lake Bradley (1922-2006), in which she describes in detail her childhood, school years, World War II, experiences at Duke University, marriage, motherhood, and teaching career. Includes a narrative on the death of one of her children from polycystic kidney disease. Filed inside the volumes are letters, photographs, clippings, programs, and other memorabilia.The volumes include photographs, letters, programs, clippings, and other memorabilia that have been tipped in or loosely inserted between the pages.
From about 2010 to 2017, Bradley's family transcribed, scanned, and indexed all of the memoirs; these additional resources are also part of the collection. Electronic files originally on 11 DVDs have been migrated to a library server; file contents are open to research and include scans of photographs, text, and memorabilia.
Volume 1 of Carol Georgette Lake Bradley's memoirs contains narrative and photographs relating to her childhood in New Jersey, including family life; her grandmother; dancing school; her childhood homes on Washington Ave., Woodside Ave., and Ridge Street, in Newark; and her time at Barringer High School, also in Newark. Includes inserted photographs and other memorabilia. Bradley frequently recorded song lyrics, movies she attended, and favorite outings in Newark.
Includes narrative notebooks and materials from Carol Georgette Lake Bradley's years in high school at Barringer High School in New Jersey, as well as her first through third years as a college student at Duke University. Materials found interfiled in the notebooks include photographs, letters, newspaper clippings, postcards, brochures, programs, and other ephemera. Bradley discusses her family, social life and schoolwork, and other extracurricular activities such as her dancing, travels, friends, and dates.
Bradley's memoirs about Duke University from 1939-1942 include her impressions of the campus, including the East and West Campuses, the women's dormitories Aycock and Bassett, and the rules and regulations of the Women's College; her classes and her professors; Duke's fraternities and sororities; her dating and social life, including her attendance at dances, church, and football games; the bombing of Pearl Harbor in 1941; food rationing, air raid drills, and train travel during World War II; and other stories about her time at Duke. Notable descriptions include details about her work at the Women's College Library (now Lilly Library); her course schedules and homework assignments; her membership in the Modern Dance Group, the Varsity Club, and Hoof 'n' Horn; and the Cotton Pickers Ball fire of 1941.
This volume includes narrative and photographs of Carol Georgette Lake Bradley's final years at Duke, particularly her courtship, engagement, and marriage to Floyd H. Bradley Jr., nicknamed "Pete." She writes about dating Pete at Duke, his entering the U.S. Army Air Corps, their long-distance relationship, and their secret elopement in Wyoming in 1944. The memoir includes inserted correspondence, photographs, and clippings. Among the topics discussed are her election to the Kappa Delta Pi honor society, her classes and teaching exercises, popular songs and movies from the period, dances she attended, and other social activities she participated in while enrolled at Duke. Also included are photographs and descriptions of her friends, Pete, and her graduation from Duke in May 1943.
The volume also includes details on Bradley's search for a teaching position following graduation, her visits with Pete and his family while he was in training, and her work as a teacher in Wharton and Bernardsville, New Jersey. Unbound materials consist largely of letters and clippings.
This volume includes Carol Georgette Lake Bradley's memoir and narrative for the years 1944-1948, focusing on her teaching and work experiences; her formal wedding to Pete Bradley; being stationed in Texas; the birth of their first child, Steven Harold; and the conclusion of World War II and the couple's return to New Jersey. She writes about finding housing in the post-war period, Steven's health problems, Pete's finishing his B.A. at Rutgers, and his work at Prudential Insurance Company. The volume concludes with anecdotes about their life in Ocean Grove, including Steven's favorite songs, games, and activities.
Volume 5 of the memoirs of Carol Georgette Lake Bradley continues her account of the early years of the Bradley family. She describes buying their first house in the suburb of Livingston, NJ and details the process of decorating and furnishing it. Bradley writes about settling into the new community. This volume also describes the birth of Floyd Bradley III, though it does not detail much about his early life. Most of the volume is dedicated to anecdotes about the last few years of Steven's life, the details of his death at age seven, and his funeral. Bradley writes extensively about the open casket ceremony hosted in her home and the cherry tree memorial that friends and family planted in Steve's honor. Many of the notebook's later pages are made up of correspondence and newpaper clippings about the funeral and the memorial.
In Volume 6 of Carol Georgette Lake Bradley's memoirs, she recounts the birth of her third child, Lynette, and describes the early childhood of Floyd and Lynette. She writes about her children's love of dancing and Floyd's interest in westerns, playing guitar, and the Boy Scouts. Bradley also describes family vacations in Cape Cod and Miami. She writes about obtaining her master's degree and getting her first post, teaching second grade at the brand new Collins School, where she wrote and directed the first school play (script included). Bradley remembers deciding to move to a bigger house in Short Hills. This volume contains photographs of birthday parties, vacations, and holidays as well as class photos of her children and a few of Floyd's report cards.
In Volume 7 of Carol Georgette Lake Bradley's memoirs, she describes the family's new house on Hickory Rd., in Short Hills, N.J., provides information for nearby Sweets Restaurant, notes the transfer of her teaching position to Hartshorn School and the children's school assignments, and reports on Lynette and Floyd's schoolwork and pastimes, including painting, ice skating, dancing, piano lessons, and scouting. She also outlines plans for a trip to Hawaii, and details treatments used following Lynette's diagnosis with epilepsy. There are photographs of the new house and parties held there, and report cards and notes of appreciation are pasted in.
Volume 8 of Carol Georgette Lake Bradley's memoirs provides an account of their family vacation to Hawaii, Sequoia National Park, Disneyland, and Las Vegas. In addition, she outlines Lynette's ongoing treatment for epilepsy, continues to follow the school careers and other accomplishments of her children, and describes parties held and attended, as well as the family's purchase of a dog. The volume includes extensive photographs of the family vacation, parties held and attended, and the dog, Sybil. Also pasted in are letters written by Carol and by the children.
In Volume 9 of Carol Georgette Lake Bradley's memoirs, she outlines the family's continuing attempts to get Lynette's epilepsy under control. She also reports on her teaching, including the producing and writing of school plays (scripts included) as well as her supervising a student teacher. She also describes the family's vacations at Ocean Grove, N.J., their participation in religious activities, and the purchase of a new house. Letters, notes, and clippings are pasted in, along with color photographs, primarily featuring family members.
In Volume 10 of Carol Georgette Lake Bradley's memoirs, she recounts a tranquil, happy chapter in her family history. She and her husband are able to buy a new home in Short Hills, NJ, as well as a summer home in Ocean Grove. There are photographs documenting Carol's remodeling and decorating of these new homes, as well as local newspaper clippings highlighting her work on their beach house. Her teenage daughter is healthy and enjoying school. Her son excells academically and is accepted to Yale University, where he matriculates in 1969. Family photographs are tipped in.
In Volume 11 of Carol Georgette Lake Bradley's memoirs, Carol takes a year off from teaching to help her youngest daughter, Lynette, settle in at Birmingham Southern University. Carol's son, Floyd, is an upperclassman at Yale with interests in economics, business, and law. Carol and her husband Pete are empty-nesters for the first time and go on vacation without their children: a Caribbean cruise.
In Volume 12 of Carol Georgette Lake Bradley's memoirs, her son Floyd has graduated magna cum laude from Yale and been accepted into the MBA program at Harvard. Her daughter Lynette is enjoying her studies at Birmingham Southern University. Both children are grateful for their parents' financial support of their education. The family vacations in the Caribbean. Carol writes about her educational philosophy and dedication to her second-grade students.
In Volume 13 of Carol Georgette Lake Bradley's memoirs, the family deals with the loss of loved ones, including Carol's father. Carol's daughter Lynette graduates from Birmingham Southern University, and Floyd has graduated from Harvard Business School. Carol continues her dedication to teaching and contributions to the education profession.
The papers of Winifred Gail Soules Bradley span the period 1952 to 1982 with the bulk of the material dating from 1965 through the 1970s. The focus of the collection is the various women's organizations to which Bradley belonged and in which she held leadership positions.
The collection includes correspondence, memoranda, minutes, reports, speeches and writings, newsletters, financial reports, pamphlets, clippings, flyers, and printed materials. It is organized chiefly alphabetically by name of organization, committee, or concern.
The organization primarily represented is the League of Women Voters in which Bradley held local, state, and national office. Files pertaining to the League are subdivided by the League of Women Voters, Durham, N.C., League of Women Voters, N.C., and the League of Women Voters, United States. These files are further subdivided by committees, conferences, and issues in which Bradley held an office or was involved. Within these subgroups, the papers are arranged in chronological order. The majority of materials in this file pertains to her offices at the national level, in particular her service as chair of the League of Women Voters of the United States (LWVUS) Foreign Policy Committee from 1967 to 1970 and her tenure as First Vice President from 1970 to 1974.
Papers relating to the Foreign Policy Committee include memos from Bradley to state league presidents, handwritten notes, reports and speeches (some of these made by Bradley), position papers, and newsletters. Among the topics addressed while she was Foreign Policy committee chairman were foreign aid, biological and chemical warfare, and United States trade policies.
Bradley's positions as First Vice President of the LWVUS and Chair of the Foreign Policy Committee gave her several opportunities to have a highly visible role in the League's activities, some of which are reflected in the collection. They include speeches she made before the U.S. House Foreign Affairs Committee in support of foreign economic aid in 1968 and before the House Ways and Means Committee regarding U.S. trade policy and the Trade Expansion Act of 1968. She also represented the League on a fact-finding mission to Japan in 1972 and at the Hemispheric Conference for Women in Miami in 1976. Documentation and papers relating to both trips are included in the collection.
In 1971, Bradley was appointed by President Nixon to serve as a member of the board of the National Institute for Consumer Justice. The board's report provided findings and recommendations concerning the adequacy of existing procedures for resolving disputes arising out of consumer transactions, particularly as they related to small claims courts.
Bradley's involvement with the Overseas Education Fund (OEF) also added an international component to her work with the LWVUS. She became a life trustee of the organization. The mission of the OEF was to help women of the third world become integrated into the socioeconomic development of their societies, as well as to further understanding in the United States of issues as they related to women in development. Bradley also represented the LWVUS on the United States National Commission for UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization). Papers related to this organization contain reports by Bradley to the LWVUS about the group and to her activities as chair of its Status of Women Committee. One of these involvements was a Mid-Decade World Conference held in Copenhagen, Denmark in 1980, which grew out of the United Nations Decade for Women (1975-1985). The papers indicate that Bradley contributed to the development of this conference by devising a basic plan to involve nongovernmental organizations in the conference.
The collection contains several speeches Bradley made before League groups both while she was President of the North Carolina League of Women Voters and also when she was First Vice-President of the LWVUS. However, there is not very much material relating to her tenure as president of the League of Women Voters of North Carolina from 1962 to 1965. Some of this material has been donated to the North Carolina State Division of Archives and History and to the state league office in Raleigh, North Carolina. What material there is primarily concerns the League's efforts to revise the structure and operations of the Judicial Department of North Carolina, particularly the North Carolina court system.
The League of Women Voters of Durham, N.C. Bulletin forms the bulk of the material relating to the local league with which Bradley was involved. The Bulletin spans the years 1952 to 1982 and offers insight into League activities at the local level. Bradley was President of the Durham League from 1957 to 1959. Other materials from the Durham League include information about local workshops, general information pertaining to Durham and local issues in the areas of housing, transportation, and law enforcement.
The Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) File (1971-1982) chiefly relates to efforts to ratify passage of the ERA in the North Carolina State Legislature. These papers particularly reflect those attempts which were made in the state from 1974 to 1979. The organization most prominently represented is North Carolinians United for ERA (NCUERA) which was comprised of a coalition of forty-three groups in North Carolina. NCUERA was apparently referred to by several names, including ERA United Inc., N. C. Coalition for Passage of the ERA, and the North Carolina Equal Rights Amendment Ratification Coalition. Offices Bradley held include Public Relations Coordinator for ERA United, 1974-1975 and lst Vice-President of NCUERA, 1978-1979. The files contain handwritten notes, speeches made by Bradley, correspondence, minutes, and printed materials generated to garner support for the ERA amendment. They also include personal testimonies from persons, who were surveyed by Bradley during her tenure as Public Relations Coordinator, regarding why they were working for passage of the ERA as well as samples of quotes from persons representing different groups who were against passage of the ERA.
Two other North Carolina women's groups in which she held leadership positions were WEAL (Women's Equity Action League) and Women's Forum (WF) of North Carolina. Correspondence, minutes, and newsletters relating to both groups are located in the collection and cover the years 1977 to 1982. Both organizations were affiliated with national organizations. Bradley was President of the North Carolina division of WEAL in 1976 and Vice-President of WF of North Carolina in 1979. WEAL was interested in promoting economic opportunity and pressing for enforcement of anti-discrimination laws against women. It was one of the forty-three groups that joined together to form North Carolinians United for the ERA.
The WF of North Carolina was comprised of women deemed to be high achievers and leaders. Papers indicate that in order to become eligible for membership women had to have influence in the community, have a constituency or make achievements in and beyond their fields. Additionally, members were to have made a commitment to changing the status of women. The papers document considerable debate about eligibility requirements and lengthy discussions about whether or not proposed members should be accepted. Some of the membership proposals are included in the collection.
While most of the collection pertains to volunteer organizations with which Bradley was involved, two other groups are represented in which Bradley held paid positions. She worked as a fundraising consultant for the N. C. Rape Crisis Association, Inc. and as a staff member of the Older Americans Volunteer Program Training Project (OAVP). OAVP was housed in the Center for the Study of Aging and Human Development in the Duke University Medical Center. There are two folders of miscellaneous items, including the work by Bradley, ABC's of Fundraising for Volunteer Organizations, speeches she gave (but it is unclear for which organizations they were made), and pamphlets and bibliographies concerning legal, insurance, and child care issues affecting women.
There is very little personal material relating to Mrs. Bradley or to her family in the collection. Some of the papers indicate she and her husband, Dr. David Bradley, worked together for the passage of the ERA in North Carolina and that they traveled abroad to conferences sponsored by the Wilton Park organization. [Wilton Park is described as a British organization to promote greater cooperation in Europe and the West and to offer those influencing opinion in their own countries an opportunity to exchange views on political, economic, and social questions.] Dr. Bradley was for many years on the faculty of the Duke University Religion Department.
A common goal which characterizes the various organizations and committees in which Bradley established herself as a leader was to improve the condition of women legally, economically, and politically. Through her many efforts she worked toward this goal at the local, state, national, and international levels.
Bradshaw's papers detail his involvement as a member of the NC Commission for the Blind for 18 years, a member of the Advisory Board for the Mary Duke Biddle Art Gallery for the Blind at the NC Museum of Art, President of the NC Society for the Prevention of Blindness, and member of the Board of Directors and President of the Human Betterment League of NC.
Many printed items--rosters, programs, clippings, and photographs--are scattered throughout the files, where they are integral parts of personal or organizational papers. Files on Durham (NC) include histories and correspondence on city and county government (1853-1973), the Chamber of Commerce, civitan and optimist clubs, Merchants Association, Public Library, and School Board; the latter includes a substantial series of folders on race relations and school desegregation. There are printed programs of cultural events held in Richmond, Durham, and Raleigh from 1929-1972, and programs, rosters, histories, minutes, and correspondence on Lions Club activities in Durham and throughout NC from 1922-1974.
Material prepared for the centennial edition of the Durham Morning Herald includes histories of local organizations (1805-1953). Bradshaw kept detailed diaries and correspondence on his Book Page and editorials from 1949-1973. Important among histories of the Civil War is his account of historic events in the Appomattox area, which he wrote for the centennial edition of the Farmville Herald (VA) in 1965; a longer local history account appears in that newspaper's sesquicentennial edition from 1948.
The Duke University files include professor Mason Crum's unpublished manuscript Washington Duke, along with Bradshaw's correspondence with faculty from 1949-1973. Correspondence with Dr. J. B. Rhine from 1963-1972 shows the development of his Foundation for Research on the Nature of Man.
This collection contains voluminous correspondence from 1922-1976, including signed letters from William O. Douglas; Dean Acheson; Dean Rusk; William P. Rogers; J. William Fulbright; NC Governors Luther Hodges, Terry Sanford, and Robert Scott; Senators Henry Jackson and B. Everett Jordan; Norman Mailer; and Douglas M. Knight. There is also correspondence with and the memoirs of Myrta Lockett Avary, author of A Virginia Girl in the Civil War. There is a morgue with hundreds of glossy photographs of contemporary writers.
There is correspondence on the 900-acre Virginia farm that he and his brother managed and his involvement with Hampden-Sydney College (both for 44 years). His writing of the history of the Baptist Church in NC (1805-1973) is included, along with correspondence on the Yates Baptist Association and the Watts Street Baptist Church from 1950-1971. His interest in genealogy led to lengthy correspondence on the genealogies of the Armistead, Bradshaw, Cunningham, Chambliss, Few, Fuqua, Lockett, McGehee, Marshall, Nash, Scarborough, Venable, and Walton families.
Addition 1987-0094 contains correspondence, notes, and printed material for the development of Durham and its commemoration of the US bicentennial in 1976. It also contains information concerning health care in NC and notes from various conferences held by the US State Department for news editors.
Vita, letters, articles, awards, clippings, a formal photograph, and other items. Also includes an inventory of the collection and the Library of Virginia inventory.
Bradshaw's subject files as an author, historian, and journalist. Organized into subseries based on his major subject areas, like the Baptist Church; blindness and public health; Durham, the Durham Morning Herald, race relations, and North Carolina; Duke University, Hampden-Sydney College, and the University of North Carolina; the Civil War; genealogies; the Lions Club; and press associations.
Articles, news clippings, etc.
Correspondence, notes, and printed material for the development of Durham and its commemoration of the US bicentennial in 1976. Also includes information concerning health care in NC and notes from various conferences held by the US State Department for news editors.
Collection of 74 unpublished typewritten sermons and texts for prayer meetings (also called sermons) assembled by a Methodist minister active in Virginia in the early twentieth century. Although no author's name is given, from church appointment records it is almost certain that the minister is John Luke Bray (1871-1938). The sermons were given from 1907 to 1938 in localities in southern Virginia (almost all in Danville, Crewe, South Boston, Richmond, and Norfolk); the earliest sermon (1907) was given in Shawnee, Oklahoma. The minister served for several years in each church, the last sermons of 1936-1938 being given in the Methodist Church in the railroad town of Crewe, Va., which possibly also served a Baptist congregation, an arrangement not unusual in rural areas. The sermon notes, typed in red and black and typically two to four pages in length, offer evidence of the typical style of preaching in Methodist churches in the South and sometimes refer to social or economic issues. Each envelope enclosing the sermon text is marked with the title, taken from a Biblical text, and when and where preached; most have multiple dates and locations. Most envelopes are marked in a corner as "Sermon Notes," but some are labeled "Prayer Meetings," with the text inside still labeled by the minister as a sermon. There are also a few miscellaneous items, including newspaper clippings, handwritten notes, and one leaf with an undated hymn with words by A. W. Davis, entitled "Over the Top With Jesus," dedicated to a "Rev. D. H. Kenney." Some fragile items have been photocopied. Arranged in two series: Prayer Meetings and Sermons, with the bulk of the sermons housed in the latter group. Within each series, arranged in Biblical order.
Collection comprises two autograph, signed letters Lydia L. Brennan wrote to the Holter Hardware Company in Helena, Montana, on July 1 and October 3, 1896, to place orders for photographic supplies, particularly American Aristo Platino papers. On her Elite Studio stationary, with the stamp of Holter Hardware indicating the inquiries were received and answered.
Bromo-Seltzer was an analgesic patented by Isaac Emerson of Baltimore, Md. in 1888. Booklet was part of World War II-era cooperation with the War Advertising Council and depicts the insignia and some history of U.S. military awards and decoration. Booklet also promotes War Bonds (precursor to Savings Bonds) on back cover as well as advertising Bromo-Seltzer. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History. Collection chiefly is composed of letters, educational reports, numerous writings and addresses, and various professional papers, all relating to tobacco relief, education, and agriculture in North Carolina. Specific topics cover the Department of Education of what was then known as Trinity College in Durham, N.C.; the history of North Carolina, from an unpublished draft; and the matter of education for rural populations in N.C. and elsewhere. Materials include a microfilm of Brooks' papers held by the Department of Archives and History in Raleigh, N.C.; telegrams; extensive manuscripts for unpublished works, lecture notes, and an address by Supt. Benjamin Lee Smith of Greensboro Public Schools. Other items in the collection include a scrapbook; cards from Brooks to his wife from abroad; original poems written by Brooks; photographs; memorabilia; an itinerary of his trip with other agricultural experts to Europe; a contract in manuscript drawn up in 1774 between citizens of Mecklenburg Co. and John Patterson, a school teacher, who was engaged to teach there; a printed document concerning Judge Walter Clark; and other miscellaneous items. There is also a printed copy of the diary of Dr. J. F. Shaffner, Sr. and blueprints of the N.C. State Fairgrounds.
Collection includes correspondence, genealogical materials, notebooks, legal papers, and other collected papers of Earl Ivan Brown, civil engineer with the Army Corps of Engineers. Materials document Brown's career developing river and harbor improvements on the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts as well as his work on the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal.
Collection centers around folklorist Frank Clyde Brown's papers related to his lifelong exploration and collecting of North Carolina and Appalachian folklore, which resulted in this vast archival collection of original folklore materials and editorial records for the project which published Brown's work in seven volumes as (The Frank C. Brown Collection of North Carolina Folklore, 1952-1964. Materials comprise about 1,049 tunes and songs recorded on wax cylinders and lacquer and aluminum phonodiscs, backup copies of the recordings on glass lacquer phonodiscs made by the Library of Congress in the 1940s, 30,000 written notes on lore, 650 musical scores, and numerous journal articles, student theses, books, lists, and other items. The folklore sources originated in at least 84 North Carolina counties, with about 5 percent from 20 other states and Canada, and came from the efforts of 650 other contributors besides Brown himself. Also included are the research notes and other papers of Charles Bond, a Duke graduate student who dealt with the collection in 1970.
Subjects range widely and include: ballads and songs (music as well as lyrics); European roots of North American folklore; folk music; folk poetry; games and parties; oral traditions and storytelling; superstitions; social conditions in the Southern States; African American traditions; work songs; and North American folklore in general. In addition, one can find rich resources on the study and teaching of folklore, and attitudes during the 1920s to 1950s about Southern customs and communities.
The collection is divided into the following series: Cylinders and Discs, which includes the Library of Congress glass lacquer phonodisc copies, Personal Papers, General Editors' Papers, Associate Editors' Papers, Charles Bond Research Material.
The Recordings Series includes 1,049 performances on original wax cylinders and phonodiscs, re-recordings of the cylinders and discs created by the Library of Congress in the 1940s, and supplementary materials. The original wax cylinders and phonodiscs were digitized and described as part of a CLIR/Mellon grant in 2015-2018.
The Personal Papers series includes Brown's correspondence, research files, and the extensive materials in the folklore collection, which include transcriptions and sheet music. All items were gathered by Brown, and taken over in 1943 by Dr. Newman Ivey White, who served as first general editor of the project from its inception then until his death in 1948. The General Editors' Papers include items which were related to and produced by the work of White, and Paull Franklin Baum who assumed duties at White's death, and saw the project through to its completion in 1964. The Associate Editors' Papers have been organized by editor, and include drafts and typescripts for various volumes.
The Charles Bond Research Material Series stems from the work of Charles Bond, a student of Professor Holger O. Nygard at Duke University. Bond opened the archival collection in 1970-1971, and prepared both an outline as well as a Tabulation of Unpublished Items in the collection. This series also includes correspondence, an index, and card files.
Recorded signal is extremely low or object has physically deteriorated to the point where content cannot be determined.
Track List
Title: How I Love the Old Black Cat, performer: Strawbridge, Mary, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:37:628
Title: The Broken Heart, performer: Strawbridge, Mary | Robbins, Jewell, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:18:961
Title: Farewell (You Are False), performer: Strawbridge, Mary, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:38:559
Title: Seven Long Years I've Been Married, performer: Mansfield, Mamie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:15:818
Title: Charlie Brooks, performer: Strawbridge, Mary, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:19:413
Title: Green Grows the Wild, performer: Nichols, Madge, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:38:490
Title: What You Goin' to Do When the World's On Fire?, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:39:881
Title: It Blows and It Snows, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:21:091
Title: Old Molly Hare, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:18:363
Title: While the Southern Boys are Fighting, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:38:252
Title: When You Hear that Turtle Dove (If You Meet a Woman in the Morning), performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:17:102
Title: Mississippi Lawyer [Jig No Words], performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:25:984
Title: Bull In the Meadows (Run Sallie My Gal), performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:17:496
Title: Bonnie Bess, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:31:440
Title: I Have No Mother Now, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:34:248
Title: The Drunkard's Lone Child, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:45:038
Title: The Old Ship of Zion, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:24:686
Title: The Fatal Wedding, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:26:129
Track List
Title: The Scolding Wife, performer: Day , Ethel, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:31:616
Title: Hard Times, performer: Webb , Pearle, location: Pineola (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:22:505
Title: Paper of Pins (Little Lap Dog), performer: Webb , Pearle, location: Pineola (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:22:178
Title: Granny, performer: Black, Ruth, location: Piney Creek (N.C.) | Alleghany County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:20:765
Title: Jim, performer: Weaver, Lura, location: Piney Creek (N.C.) | Alleghany County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:52:654
Title: The Letter that Never Came, performer: Black, Ruth, location: Piney Creek (N.C.) | Alleghany County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:39:702
Title: unknown, performer: Holton, S.M., location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:45:542
Title: Old Grimes (Old Grumbly is Dead), performer: Stroupe, Carrie, location: Lenoir (N.C.) | Caldwell County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:14:707
Title: Old Time, performer: Cooke, Alice, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:54:725
Title: Faithful Friend, performer: Cooke, Alice, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:42:003
Track List
Title: Pennsylvania Boy, performer: Weaver, Lura, location: Piney Creek (N.C.) | Alleghany County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:33:068
Title: Goin' to Heaven With a Banjo, performer: Fletcher, Eula, location: Mabel (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:16:295
Title: Sadie Ray, performer: Fletcher, Eula, location: Mabel (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:32:100
Title: Red White and Blue, performer: McNeill, Hattie, location: Ferguson (N.C.) | Wilkes County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:29:160
Title: Through the Woods, Through the Bushes, performer: Clarke, Eugenia, location: Collettsville (N.C.) | Caldwell County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:24:421
Title: Sweetest Evelina, performer: Greer, I.G., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:35:333
Title: In the Baggage Couch Ahead, performer: Greer, I.G., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:05:317
Title: Battleship Maine, performer: Greer, I.G., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:45:284
Title: Raven Black Hair, performer: Greer, I.G., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:37:295
Title: The Sweet Trinity (Golden Willow Tree), performer: Greer, I.G., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:00:092
Title: The Jealous Lovers, performer: Greer, I.G., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:22:484
Title: The Blue Eyed Girl, performer: Greer, I.G., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:14:687
Title: The Broken Heart, performer: Greer, I.G., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:24:976
Title: Parting Words, performer: Greer, I.G., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:39:735
Track List
Title: When I am Far Away Somewhere in France, performer: Moody, Birdie May, location: Shull's Mill (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:13:292
Title: Tom Dula, performer: Moody, Birdie May, location: Shull's Mill (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:36:527
Title: unknown, performer: Green, A.I., location: Heaton (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:22:296
Title: unknown, performer: Green, A.I., location: Heaton (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:30:532
Title: The Blind Child (The Blind Girl's Prayer), performer: Webb , Pearle, location: Pineola (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:22:508
Title: Frog In the Meadow, performer: Webb , Pearle, location: Pineola (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:10:042
Title: The Miller (The Jolly Miller), performer: McNeill, Hattie, location: Ferguson (N.C.) | Wilkes County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:10:670
Title: The Weeping Willow (Willow Tree), performer: Lewis, Ethel, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:20:744
Title: James Harris (The House Carpenter), performer: McNeill, Hattie, location: Ferguson (N.C.) | Wilkes County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:33:175
Title: The Lonesome Pine, performer: McNeill, Hattie, location: Ferguson (N.C.) | Wilkes County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:29:221
Title: I Came From Alabama, performer: McNeill?], Arron, location: Ferguson (N.C.) | Wilkes County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:33:024
Title: Geordie (I'd Fight for the Life of Geordie), performer: McNeill, Hattie, location: Ferguson (N.C.) | Wilkes County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:25:645
Title: unknown, performer: McNeill, Hattie, location: Ferguson (N.C.) | Wilkes County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:21:728
Title: unknown, performer: Clarke, Eugenia, location: Collettsville (N.C.) | Caldwell County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:54:656
Title: Three Leaves of Shamrock, performer: Clarke, Eugenia, location: Collettsville (N.C.) | Caldwell County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:52:807
Track List
Title: In a Cool Shady Nook (You, You, You), performer: Holton, Aura, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:29:822
Title: No Sir (O Tell Me Why, O Tell Me Truly), performer: Holton, Aura, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:27:279
Title: Mountain Dew (Down Under the Hill), performer: Holton, Aura, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:33:667
Title: Springfield Mountain (Sarpint), performer: Poovey, W.E., location: Marion (N.C.) | McDowell County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:47:358
Title: Sally Goodin (Jaybird and Sparrow), performer: Poovey, W.E., location: Marion (N.C.) | McDowell County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:20:141
Title: Our Fathers They'll Be There, performer: Meyers, E., location: Concord (N.C.) | Cabarrus County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:57:500
Title: Jesus Born in Bethlehem (Song of Jesus), performer: unknown, location: Concord (N.C.) | Cabarrus County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:30:007
Title: Be Kind to a Stranger From Home, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:03:47:548
Track List
Title: The Passing Policeman, performer: Gallop , Theresa, location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:52:543
Title: In the Isle of St. Helena, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:06:509
Title: Sallie Dover, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:02:969
Title: The Sheffield Apprentice, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:06:320
Title: The Maid I Left Behind, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:48:923
Title: The Harmless Hare, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:55:973
Title: Caroline of Edinburgh Town, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:12:496
Track List
Recorded signal is extremely low or object has physically deteriorated to the point where content cannot be determined.
Track List
Title: Faithful Friend, performer: Cooke, Alice, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:05:189
Title: Sparking On a Sunday Night, performer: Cooke, Alice, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:34:108
Title: Home On the Range (Antelope Song), performer: Cooke, Alice, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:50:494
Title: unknown, performer: Cooke, Alice, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:15:643
Title: Rosa Lee the Prarie Flower, performer: Cooke, Alice, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:44:433
Title: Cold Mountain (or Gold Mountain), performer: Cooke, Alice, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:51:196
Title: Pretty Saro, performer: Cooke, Alice, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:26:595
Title: Morality, performer: Cooke, Alice, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:27:982
Title: Going to Heaven By the Light of the Moon, performer: Cooke, Alice, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:22:049
Title: Baptist, Baptist is My Name (Roll, Jordan, Roll), performer: Cooke, Alice, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:37:823
Title: Sweet Sunny South (Take Me Home), performer: Cooke, Alice, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:47:334
Title: The Dying Nun, performer: Cooke, Alice, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:42:988
Title: Lord Thomas and Fair Annet (Lord Thomas), performer: Cooke, Alice, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:33:328
Track List
Title: Lamkin (Beaulampkins), performer: Smith, Thomas, location: Zionville (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:42:970
Title: Singing the Ten Commandments, performer: Poole , I.T., location: Morganton (N.C.) | Burke County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:31:994
Title: Jennie Jenkins, performer: Smith, Thomas, location: Zionville (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:38:775
Title: Lord Thomas and Fair Annet (Lord Thomas), performer: Smith, Thomas, location: Zionville (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:20:905
Title: unknown, performer: Hayman, L.D., location: Elizabeth City (N.C.) | Pasquotank County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:57:171
Title: Sweet Lulur, performer: Greer, I.G., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:03:320
Title: Sweet Bunch of Daisies, performer: Greer, I.G. | Smith, A., location: Vilas (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:50:316
Title: unknown, performer: Smith, Thomas | Norris, E.G. | Moir, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:37:146
Title: Bill Miller's Trip to the West, performer: Norris, E.J., location: Sands (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:47:316
Title: Here Come Three Dukes A-Riding, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:21:190
Track List
Title: I Had a Little Ship on the Ocean (Little Sally), performer: Belvin, Jennie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:28:466
Title: Ain't Gonna Rain No More, performer: Belvin, Jennie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:10:445
Title: Black Eyed Daisy (Send for the Fiddle), performer: Belvin, Jennie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:15:229
Title: As I Went Down to Simon's Mill (Railroad Dinah Gal), performer: Belvin, Jennie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:38:117
Title: Skin and Bones (There Was an Old Woman), performer: Belvin, Jennie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:45:998
Title: Come All Ye Girls of Adam's Race, performer: Belvin, Jennie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:20:780
Title: Honey In the Gun, performer: Belvin, Jennie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:32:401
Title: Goodbye My Blue Bell, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:29:270
Title: Everybody Works But Father, performer: Belvin, Jennie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:20:427
Title: Little Sallie Water, performer: Belvin, Jennie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:24:022
Title: Draw a Bucket of Water, performer: Belvin, Jennie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:14:544
Title: Animal Song, performer: Belvin, Jennie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:34:154
Title: Ginger Blue, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:16:015
Title: Roll Down Dem Bales o' Cotton, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:13:838
Title: Went Down Town, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:10:016
Title: Sweet Long Ago, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:46:088
Title: The Poor Married Man, performer: Mansfield, Mamie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:45:544
Track List
Title: Workin' On the Railroad Forty Cents a Day, performer: Mangum, Eura, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:19:763
Title: The Dummy Line, performer: Mangum, Eura, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:23:905
Title: White Gal - Yaller Gal - Black Gal [House text], performer: Mangum, Eura, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:21:586
Title: The Old Grey Mare, performer: Mangum, Eura, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:11:413
Title: When a Man Gets the Blues, performer: Mangum, Eura, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:15:879
Title: Little Brown Jug, performer: Mangum, Eura, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:23:509
Title: Old Molly Hare, performer: Lucas, Louise, location: White Oak (N.C.) | Bladen County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:22:889
Title: Kindling Wood (My Name is Dinah), performer: Lucas, Louise, location: White Oak (N.C.) | Bladen County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:27:789
Title: Ain't Gonna Worry My Lord No More, performer: Lucas, Louise, location: White Oak (N.C.) | Bladen County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:15:543
Title: Farmer Boy, performer: Belvin, Jennie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:29:118
Title: unknown, performer: Belvin, Jennie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:18:112
Title: unknown, performer: Belvin, Jennie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:19:602
Title: unknown, performer: Belvin, Jennie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:18:900
Title: Walk In the Parlor, performer: Belvin, Jennie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:15:371
Title: Old Man, Old Man, performer: Belvin, Jennie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:13:411
Title: I'm Climbing Up Zion's Hill, performer: Belvin, Jennie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:36:473
Title: We'll All Pray Together, performer: Belvin, Jennie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:24:315
Title: As I Went Down In the Valley, performer: Belvin, Jennie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:29:244
Title: Sweat Like Drops of Blood Run Down, performer: Belvin, Jennie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:39:236
Title: I Have a True Love, performer: Belvin, Jennie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:26:337
Track List
Title: Isle of St Helena (Boneparte), performer: Grogan, Fannie, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:54:824
Title: Lord Thomas, performer: Grogan, Fannie, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:18:054
Track List
Title: The Miller and His Three Sons, performer: Tugman, Alexander, location: Todd (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:30:271
Title: Poor Married Man, performer: Tugman, Alexander, location: Todd (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:33:791
Title: Old Soap Gourd [Game], performer: Wright, J.T.C., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:12:497
Title: Farmer In the Dell [Game], performer: Wright, J.T.C., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:21:550
Title: Down By the Old Mill Stream, performer: Wright, J.T.C., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:46:101
Title: When the Bees Are In the Hive, performer: Wright, J.T.C., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:56:197
Title: The Needle's Eye, performer: Wright, J.T.C., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:16:102
Title: The Lover's Lament (Little Molly), performer: Tugman, Alexander, location: Todd (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:22:229
Title: Groundhog, performer: Wright, J.T.C., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:27:074
Title: Baby Bunting (Bye O Baby Bunting), performer: Wright, J.T.C., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:11:344
Title: Frankie and Johnny (Franky Barker), performer: Weaver, Lura, location: Piney Creek (N.C.) | Alleghany County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:14:854
Title: Wreck of Old Ninety Seven, performer: McNeill, Hattie, location: Ferguson (N.C.) | Wilkes County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:15:862
Title: Lord Thomas and Fair Annet (One Morning InMay), performer: Fincher, Lizzie, location: Monroe (N.C.) | Union County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:24:620
Title: Bright Alpharatta, the Indian Girl, performer: Poovey, W.E., location: unknown, running time: 00:01:07:445
Track List
Title: Captain I'm Driving, performer: White, N.I., location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:19:800
Title: Put the Dogs On Him, performer: White, N.I., location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:11:586
Title: Run Here Doctor, performer: White, N.I., location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:18:542
Title: Yonder Come a Yaller Gal, performer: White, N.I., location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:17:602
Title: Good News Chariots Comin', performer: White, N.I., location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:26:236
Title: Uncle Bud, performer: Hauchey, H.H., location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:12:209
Title: O When I Die Don't Bury Me Deep, performer: Hauchey, H.H., location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:12:134
Title: Did You Ever Go A-Fishing?, performer: Hauchey, H.H., location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:22:963
Title: It Ain't A Gwine Rain No More, performer: Hauchey, H.H., location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:19:126
Title: Dig My Grave Deep Wide, performer: Holton, S.M. | Matthews, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:18:597
Title: unknown, performer: Holton, S.M. | Matthews, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:20:185
Title: unknown, performer: Holton, S.M. | Matthews, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:16:158
Title: Nuts in May, performer: Peatross, Edith, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:12:398
Title: Who's Gonna Love You, Honey?, performer: Overton, Doris, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:32:563
Title: That's Where My Honey Goes, performer: Overton, Doris, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:21:094
Title: Bye O Baby Bunting, performer: Mangum, Eura, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:13:300
Title: London Bridge, performer: Mangum, Eura, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:22:004
Title: There Was a Watermelon, performer: Mangum, Eura, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:29:424
Title: Whale Swallowed Jonah, performer: Mangum, Eura, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:17:834
Title: Possum Up A Simmon Tree, performer: Mangum, Eura, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:11:400
Title: A Billy Goat, performer: Mangum, Eura, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:46:489
Title: Quitcherter Lookin' Around, performer: Mangum, Eura, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:23:193
Title: I Was Born Ten Thousand Years Ago, performer: Mangum, Eura, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:24:837
Track List
Title: Dublin Bay, performer: Cox, Jeannette, location: Winterville (N.C.) | Pitt County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:30:483
Title: She Gave No Kisses One (Kissing Song), performer: Wright, J.T.C., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:19:065
Title: Chewing Gum, performer: Webb , Pearle, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:07:959
Title: Leather Breeches, performer: Webb , Pearle, location: Pineola (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:14:188
Title: Just Down to the Gate, performer: Webb , Pearle, location: Pineola (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:25:182
Title: Jimmie Suttonton, performer: McNeill, Hattie, location: Ferguson (N.C.) | Wilkes County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:15:370
Track List
Title: Drifting Apart, performer: Belvin, Jennie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:29:071
Title: Shake a Hand, performer: Belvin, Jennie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:22:288
Title: Hush, Hush - Mockingbird, performer: Belvin, Jennie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:10:803
Title: Let My Name Be Kindly Spoken, performer: Belvin, Jennie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:21:061
Title: Poor Old Me Goes Waggin' Along, performer: Belvin, Jennie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:27:759
Title: Rise, Shiner, Mourner, performer: Peatross, Edith, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:30:444
Title: Raccoon Up a Tree, performer: Peterson, Jessie L., location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:17:359
Title: Twenty Years Ago, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:45:573
Title: Malinda May, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:29:981
Title: I Have a Ship On the Ocean, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:37:798
Title: Down Benath the Diving Bell (Pretty Maggie), performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:22:701
Title: That Bloody War, performer: Holton, Aura, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:27:804
Title: Drop O'Dew, performer: Holton, Aura, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:34:570
Title: In a Cool Shady Nook, performer: Holton, Aura, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:11:598
Track List
Title: Red River Valley (Bright Sherman Valley, performer: Hardin, Addie, location: Rutherwood (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:44:369
Title: Fly Around My Little Miss, performer: McNeill, Hattie, location: Ferguson (N.C.) | Wilkes County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:10:000
Title: Twinkle Twinkle Little Star, performer: McNeill, Hattie, location: Ferguson (N.C.) | Wilkes County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:32:907
Title: Cripple Creek, performer: Moore, Arthur, location: Lenoir (N.C.) | Caldwell County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:11:100
Title: Will You Love Me When I'm Old, performer: McNeill, Hattie, location: Ferguson (N.C.) | Wilkes County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:54:842
Title: Will You Love Me When I'm Old, performer: Greer, I.G., location: Rutherwood (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:14:389
Title: Dear Nell, performer: Hardin, Addie, location: Rutherwood (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:15:647
Title: My Pretty Quadroon, performer: Greer, I.G., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:49:401
Title: unknown, performer: Hardin, Addie, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:14:459
Title: Reuben's Train, performer: Moore, Arthur, location: Lenoir (N.C.) | Caldwell County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:23:904
Title: Lady Isabeland the Elf Knight, performer: McNeill, Hattie, location: Ferguson (N.C.) | Wilkes County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:29:119
Title: In the Shadow of the Pines, performer: McNeill, Hattie, location: Ferguson (N.C.) | Wilkes County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:49:122
Title: I'm Determined to Be an Old Maid, performer: Tugman, Alexander, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:22:395
Title: I'll Put my Knapsack On My Back, performer: Webb , Pearle, location: Pineola (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:10:422
Title: My Mammy Don't Love Me, performer: Webb , Pearle, location: Pineola (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:21:946
Title: On the Banks of the Ohio, performer: Hardin, Addie, location: Rutherwood (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:29:548
Track List
Title: Soon as My Foot Struck Zion, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:42:064
Title: Old Satan's Mad, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:31:438
Title: John Saw de 144,000, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:25:639
Title: I Wish I Was Single, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:22:835
Title: I Got a Gal (or "I Got a Girl"), performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:20:715
Title: Guinea Negro Song, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:17:275
Title: Negro Song, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:10:785
Title: Page's Train Runs So Fast, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:14:630
Title: Georgia Buck, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:13:587
Title: Florence Ran Through the Weevily Wheat, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:15:528
Title: Raccoon Has a Bushy Tail, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:13:101
Title: Shortnin' Bread, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:13:858
Title: Some Folks Say Dat a Nigger Won't Steal, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:26:610
Title: On the Field of Battle, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:49:124
Title: Johnny Sands, performer: White, N.E., location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:16:368
Title: Stanin' In the Need of Prayer, performer: White, N.E., location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:39:251
Title: No Hidin' Place, performer: White, N.E., location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:54:831
Track List
Title: Little Mary Fagan (or Phagan), performer: Coleman, Alfonso, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:56:786
Title: The Blind Girl's Death, performer: Coleman, Alfonso, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:54:348
Title: Barbara Allen, performer: Coleman, Alfonso, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:14:948
Title: Naomi Wise, performer: Coleman, Alfonso, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:06:066
Title: George Collins, performer: Coleman, Alfonso, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:53:737
Title: Frankie Barker (Frankie and Johnny), performer: Coleman, Alfonso, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:08:985
Title: Leaving the City, Dear Nellie, performer: Coleman, Alfonso, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:01:346
Title: Lillian Brown, performer: Coleman, Alfonso, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:30:882
Title: The Farmer Boy, performer: Coleman, Alfonso, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:08:29:950
Track List
Title: Mama, Mama, Have You Heard, performer: Coleman, Florence, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:19:635
Title: Mama Sent Me to the Spring, performer: Coleman, Florence, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:10:346
Title: Mama Only Loves Her Boy (or Honey), performer: Coleman, Florence, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:51:986
Title: Little Mohea, performer: Coleman, Florence, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:30:512
Title: Bobbie Shaftoe, performer: Overton, Doris, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:15:130
Title: unknown, performer: Overton, Doris | Adams, Monte, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:46:621
Title: unknown, performer: Overton, Doris, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:17:107
Title: unknown, performer: Adams, Monte, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:12:591
Title: unknown, performer: Adams, Monte, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:14:796
Title: unknown, performer: Overton, Doris, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:36:752
Title: Here Come Three Dukes A-Riding, performer: Overton, Doris, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:10:943
Title: Twas On a Cold December Day, performer: Coleman, Florence, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:50:134
Track List
Title: I'm Going Over the Rocky Mountains, performer: Mansfield, Mamie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:29:701
Title: When I Was Single, performer: Mansfield, Mamie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:12:926
Title: I Bought a Hen, performer: Mansfield, Mamie, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:12:784
Title: Hungry Bucket, performer: Barbour, Mary, location: Raeford (N.C.) | Hoke County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:47:173
Title: I Don't Love Satan, performer: Barbour, Mary, location: Raeford (N.C.) | Hoke County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:57:608
Title: Each Evening at Eight, performer: Barbour, Mary, location: Raeford (N.C.) | Hoke County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:37:550
Title: River's Up and Still A-Risin', performer: Barbour, Mary, location: Raeford (N.C.) | Hoke County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:29:936
Title: I Heard a Mighty Rumblin', performer: Barbour, Mary, location: Raeford (N.C.) | Hoke County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:31:160
Title: My Father's a Hedger and A Ditcher, performer: Barbour, Mary, location: Raeford (N.C.) | Hoke County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:00:372
Track List
Title: Soldier, Soldier Won't You Marry Me, performer: Holeman, Jean, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:46:563
Title: Captain Jinks of the Horse Marine, performer: Holeman, Jean, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:41:853
Title: Don't Tell Pa, performer: Holeman, Jean, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:13:606
Title: Maid Freed From the Gallows (Hangman, Hangman), performer: Holeman, Jean, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:21:692
Title: Joe Bowers, I'm a Good old Rebel, performer: Holeman, Jean, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:46:790
Title: The Carolina Crew, performer: Holeman, Jean, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:17:001
Title: Too-hoo Says the Owl, performer: Holeman, Jean, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:30:880
Title: Wish I Had a Pig in a Pen, performer: Holeman, Jean, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:30:804
Title: Poor Parker, performer: Holeman, Jean, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:38:631
Title: The Origin of Ireland, performer: Holeman, Jean, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:34:847
Title: The Vowels, performer: Holeman, Jean, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:18:468
Title: The Duke of York, performer: Holeman, Jean, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:23:401
Title: Old Rosin the Beau, performer: Holeman, Jean, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:29:415
Title: Micheal Roy, performer: Holeman, Jean, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:31:049
Track List
Title: Vilikins and his Dinah, performer: Holeman, Jean, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:35:073
Title: Jonah and the Whale, performer: Holeman, Jean, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:43:200
Title: Mary and Martha, performer: Holeman, Jean, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:34:903
Title: Shortnin' bread, performer: Holeman, Jean, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:43:200
Title: When I Was a Bachelor, performer: Holeman, Jean, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:30:326
Title: Ninety Nine Blue Bottles, performer: Holeman, Jean, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:25:176
Title: My Mammy Told Me, performer: Holeman, Jean, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:23:460
Title: There Was an Old Woman (Skin and Bones), performer: Holeman, Jean, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:39:042
Title: Cindy, performer: Holeman, Jean, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:23:400
Title: My Mammy Told Me, performer: Overton, Doris, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:24:587
Title: London Bridge is Falling Down, performer: Overton, Doris, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:24:873
Title: Last Night I Was Nearly Crazy, performer: Overton, Doris, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:04:498
Title: Standin' In The Need of Prayer ('Taint My Mother, 'Taint My Brother), performer: Overton, Doris, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:19:740
Title: Some Folks Say That a Nigger Won't Steal, performer: Overton, Doris, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:19:740
Title: Farm Sows His Seed String Beans and Barley Grow, performer: Overton, Doris, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:25:614
Track List
Title: Old Darkey Joe, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:27:061
Title: As I Walked Out One Morning, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:53:026
Title: Kind Sir, I See You Here Again, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:36:803
Title: There's a Green Tree Standing In Paradise, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:08:869
Title: John, He Baptized Jesus, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:35:710
Title: The Unreconstructed Rebel (Old Marse Robert), performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:50:285
Title: Bushwacker's Song, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:32:430
Title: The Red, White, and Blue, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:35:345
Title: Never Mind Your Knapsack (Southern Spy's Song), performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:40:447
Title: Gwine Down Jordan, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:25:143
Title: I'm Gwine Away to Georgia, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:42:633
Title: Lord I Will Never Come Back, performer: Robbins, Jewell, location: Pekin (N.C.) | Montgomery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:57:589
Track List
Title: George Collins, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:20:983
Track List
Title: I Heard a Mighty Rumbling, performer: Tingle, Woodrow, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:00:535
Title: Old Dan Tucker, performer: Price, Alex, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:38:625
Title: John Henry, performer: Price, Alex, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:13:970
Title: If I Had It You Could Get It (Logging Song), performer: Price, Alex, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:42:269
Title: Jaw Bone Tea, performer: Price, Alex, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:42:269
Title: Preacher and the Bear, performer: Price, Alex, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:04:255
Title: Turkey In The Straw, performer: Price, Alex, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:01:581
Title: Lord, I'm Hungry, performer: Price, Alex, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:20:050
Track List
Title: Jonah and the Whale, performer: Price, Alex, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:43:706
Title: Lord, I'm Hungry, performer: Price, Alex, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:09:545
Title: I Can't Read or Write, performer: Lee, Robert, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:32:283
Title: Jump Jim Crow, performer: Osteen, Edna, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:13:374
Title: My Father Was a Deacon, performer: Osteen, Edna, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:27:061
Title: Grandma's Flock, performer: Lee, Minnie, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:41:527
Title: Frog Went A-Courtin', performer: Lee, Minnie, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:31:363
Title: Two Little Niggers On a Load of Hay, performer: Bands, B.D., Jr., location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:31:406
Title: Up In the Heaven They Say There Is No Snow, performer: Bands, B.D., Jr., location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:34:854
Title: Chicken [Imitates Chicken], performer: Farnell,, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:34:571
Title: The Dude, performer: Bennett,, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:00:231
Track List
Title: I'll Sing the Wondrous Story, performer: Banks, L.F., location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:47:992
Title: Jack and Mae, performer: Banks, L.F., location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:19:256
Title: Battleship Maine, performer: Banks, L.F., location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:52:837
Title: Sweetheart and Mother, performer: Banks, L.F., location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:24:249
Title: Little Alabama Coon, performer: Banks, L.F., location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:47:233
Title: Just as the Sun Went Down, performer: Banks, L.F., location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:47:852
Title: Savannah Home, performer: Banks, L.F., location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:49:814
Title: Little Mohee, performer: Banks, L.F., location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:25:449
Track List
Title: Be Home Early Tonight, performer: Banks, L.F., location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:53:212
Title: My Mother Is Gone, performer: Buck, S.A., location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:31:750
Title: All Round the Mountain, performer: Buck, S.A., location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:52:715
Title: I Got Religion On Sunday Morning, performer: Buck, S.A., location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:07:309
Title: The Old Man That Lived Under the Hill, performer: Buck, S.A., location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:39:569
Title: We Are the Boys From the Mountain, performer: Buck, S.A., location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:57:873
Title: I've Been Rebuked and I've Been Scorned, performer: Buck, S.A., location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:04:540
Track List
Title: Boys, Keep Away From Girls, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:35:745
Title: Manila Bay, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:42:228
Track List
Title: Come, Thy Fount of Every Blessing, performer: Banks, S.F., location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:39:949
Title: Mary At the Savior's Tomb, performer: Banks, S.F., location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:05:210
Title: Haste Away, Winter!, performer: Banks, S.F., location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:39:895
Title: Cottage Home, performer: Banks, S.F., location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:49:347
Title: Pat Malone, performer: Banks, S.F., location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:43:368
Title: unknown, performer: Banks, S.F., location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:19:579
Title: Farewell, Dear Brethren, performer: Banks, S.F., location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:45:052
Title: All God's Children, performer: Tucker, Eva, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:31:439
Title: My Lord Gonna Move This Wicked Race, performer: Coleman, Alfonso, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:43:416
Title: My Lord Gonna Move This Wicked Race, performer: Tucker, Eva, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:40:961
Track List
Title: My Lord Gonna Move This Wicked Race, performer: Tucker, Eva, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:42:493
Title: What Is Religion [talking], performer: Simmons, Hill, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:58:723
Title: Let Me Call You Sweetheart, performer: Tucker, Eva, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:40:753
Title: Don't You Hear the Bells, performer: James, Claude, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:01:590
Title: Oh, Daddy, performer: Tucker, Eva, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:32:188
Title: Down in Georgia (Shake That Thing), performer: Simmons, Hill, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:55:713
Title: Red River, performer: Coleman, Alfonso, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:32:188
Title: John Henry, performer: Simmons, Hill, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:57:678
Track List
Title: John Henry, performer: Simmons, Hill, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:48:327
Title: Didn't It Rain, performer: James, Claude, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:22:180
Title: Down in Georgia (Shake That Thing), performer: Tucker, Eva, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:40:521
Title: Hearse Keep a Rollin' (The New Burying Ground), performer: Coleman, Alfonso, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:24:504
Title: Everybody's Gal is My Gal, performer: James, Claude, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:47:575
Title: When the Saints Go Marching In, performer: Lee, Minnie, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:05:169
Track List
Title: Wicked Man, performer: Lee, Minnie, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:06:956
Title: Remember Me, My Dearest Dear, performer: Lee, Minnie, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:43:117
Title: My Hair Was Black as Ribbon, performer: Lee, Minnie, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:29:033
Title: Lynchburg Town, performer: Lee, Minnie, location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:32:717
Title: A Jolly Soldier, performer: Barnes, M.T., location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:45:067
Title: Stone Rolling Down the Mountain, performer: Barnes, M.T., location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:41:600
Title: John Henry, performer: Barnes, M.T., location: Alliance (N.C.) | Pamlico County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:17:603
Track List
Title: unknown, performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:54:449
Title: unknown, performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:39:044
Title: unknown, performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:26:949
Title: The Lily White Robe, performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:13:546
Title: unknown, performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:14:752
Title: I'm As Free a Little Bird As I Can Be, performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:15:696
Title: House Carpenter (James Harris), performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:15:734
Title: unknown, performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:13:561
Title: Our Goodman, performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:15:269
Title: Jack and Joe, performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:22:151
Title: I Wonder Where You Are Tonight, performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:54:044
Track List
Title: I Wonder Where You Are Tonight [cont], performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:21:721
Title: unknown, performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:06:485
Title: Down By the Old Deserted Mill, performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:05:776
Title: The Maple On the Hill, performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:20:079
Title: The Wild-Wood Flower, performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:20:885
Title: unknown, performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:11:705
Title: unknown, performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:05:388
Track List
Title: The Miller and His Three Sons, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:03:04:188
Title: Twenty Years Ago, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:43:314
Title: Old 97, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:45:122
Title: Sorghum Molasses, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:02:01:849
Title: In the Shadow of the Pines, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:29:604
Track List
Title: I'll Not Marry (I Wouldn't Marry) (Boil them Cabbage Down), performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:03:00:035
Title: Beware of Beware, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:52:723
Title: Hard Times, Girls, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:41:572
Title: Over the [Garden] Wall, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:08:723
Title: unknown, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:08:723
Track List
Title: The British Lady, performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:55:578
Title: The Stars Shine Bright, performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:34:229
Title: Our Goodman, performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:27:143
Title: Our Goodman (Cont.), performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:25:717
Title: Ellen Smith, performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:36:854
Title: Sourwood Mountain, performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:18:359
Title: Spanish Merchant, performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:53:196
Track List
Title: unknown, performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:23:892
Title: unknown, performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:59:000
Title: unknown, performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:33:203
Title: unknown, performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:13:875
Track List
Title: Jacob's Ladder, performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:33:329
Title: Pretty Fair Maid In a Garden, performer: Wilson, Ewart, location: Pensacola (N.C.) | Yancey County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:17:986
Track List
Recorded signal is extremely low or object has physically deteriorated to the point where content cannot be determined.
Track List
Recorded signal is extremely low or object has physically deteriorated to the point where content cannot be determined.
Track List
Recorded signal is extremely low or object has physically deteriorated to the point where content cannot be determined.
Track List
Recorded signal is extremely low or object has physically deteriorated to the point where content cannot be determined.
Track List
Title: Down By the Willow Garden, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:10:956
Title: unknown, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:55:312
Title: Beau Lamkin, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:58:236
Title: Black Jack Davy, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:12:044
Title: Our Goodman, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:47:982
Track List
Title: The Bramble Brier, performer: Proffitt, Frank, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:35:455
Title: Our Goodman, performer: Proffitt, Frank, location: unknown, running time: 00:02:01:843
Title: Dandoo, performer: Proffitt, Frank, location: unknown, running time: 00:02:05:667
Title: unknown, performer: Proffitt, Frank, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:45:000
Track List
Title: Our Goodman, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:59:559
Title: Dandoo (The Wife Wrap in Weather's Skins), performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:53:683
Title: Twenty Years Ago, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:08:864
Title: Julie Jenkins, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:03:288
Track List
Title: Emmie and Edward, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:21:326
Title: The Banks of Sweet Dundee, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:42:559
Title: James Harris (The House Carpenter), performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:55:253
Title: The Ploughboy, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:10:668
Title: John Reilly, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:47:802
Title: unknown, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:07:208
Title: Seventy-Two, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:02:752
Title: Barbara Allen, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:21:794
Title: Down On the Coast of Barbary, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:50:291
Track List
Title: Pretty Polly, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:21:394
Title: Huxter's Bold Crew, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:37:398
Title: William Taylor, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:07:509
Title: Paul Jones, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:00:809
Title: Stormy Winds, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:55:279
Title: The Sweet Trinity (Cabin Boy), performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:42:419
Title: Charlie Thrasher (Jolly Thrasher), performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:57:202
Title: Scarboro Sand, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:48:624
Track List
Title: Mary, Weep No More For Me, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:58:178
Title: unknown, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:45:235
Title: unknown, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:09:237
Title: unknown, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:50:245
Title: Storm Bird, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:50:245
Title: The Golden Glove, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:51:687
Title: Jack and Joe, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:01:784
Title: Sweet Birds, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:56:829
Title: The Prentice Boy, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:41:350
Title: Charming Nancy (John and Nancy), performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:30:407
Track List
Title: unknown, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:06:860
Title: unknown, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:40:247
Title: Monday Morning I Got Me A Wife, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:23:051
Title: Little Musgrove and Lady Barnard (Lord Daniel's Wife), performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:18:466
Title: unknown, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:22:742
Title: unknown, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:23:833
Title: Sweet Lulur, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:12:442
Title: unknown, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:44:184
Title: unknown, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:38:914
Title: unknown, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:23:816
Title: unknown, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:37:535
Title: unknown, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:10:391
Track List
Title: unknown, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:31:479
Title: Hills of Old New Hampshire, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:49:434
Title: Captain Glenn, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:40:610
Title: I Could Not Call Her Mother, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:47:793
Title: The Old Privateer, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:43:550
Title: Nora O'Neal, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:43:499
Title: Young Beichan (Lord Bateman), performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:49:212
Title: Lord Thomas and Fair Annet (Lord Thomas), performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:19:421
Title: unknown, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:37:681
Title: unknown, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:41:037
Title: Rose of Ardee, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:46:414
Title: Narragansett Bay, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:59:525
Track List
Title: A Picture of Her Boy, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:21:963
Title: Will You Love Me When I'm Old, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:08:767
Title: A Mother's Appeal to Her Boy, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:04:482
Title: Saucy Anna Lee, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:27:065
Title: Fatal Wedding, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:09:271
Title: Her Bright Smile Haunts Me Still, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:55:161
Title: Maggie Dear I'm Called Away, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:12:625
Title: Kitty Kline (Kitty Clyde), performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:03:610
Track List
Title: Alphabet of the Ship, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:27:785
Title: Went Aloft with Jackets Blue, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:22:351
Title: Morar, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:29:211
Title: The White Owl With a White Head, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:26:300
Title: Poor Jack, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:28:490
Title: I Have No Mother Now, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:26:746
Title: If You Will Only Be My Bride, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:33:722
Title: Nettie Moore, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:40:236
Title: Woodman Spare That Tree, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:21:871
Title: Magdaline, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:09:772
Title: Only Flirting (oh Sir, I Was Only Flirting), performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:59:539
Title: Old Fashioned Roses, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:57:721
Title: Have a Little Banjo Beating, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:22:125
Title: Nancy Till, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:22:687
Track List
Title: As I Walked Out Last Christmas Morn, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:33:529
Title: Lord Lovel, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:23:451
Title: The Soldier's Wooing
Yankee Soldier (The Lady Held the Horse of a Soldier), performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:46:345
Title: Sinful Flirting (Sinful to Flirt), performer: Faucette, C.F., location: Greenville (S.C.) | South Carolina, running time: 00:00:54:911
Track List
Title: unknown, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:29:294
Title: unknown, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:39:257
Title: It Rains and It Blows, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:15:537
Title: The Irishman's Girl, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:32:325
Title: The Sailor Boy (Poor Little Sailor Boy), performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:00:501
Title: New River Shore, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:24:618
Title: At the Foot of Yonder Mountain, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:40:562
Title: The First Girl I Courted, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:35:289
Title: A Dark Eyed Sailor, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:35:049
Title: There Is an Herb In Your Father's Good, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:21:175
Title: Charlie and Mary, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:30:705
Title: Darling Little Pink, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:40:227
Title: The Isle of St. Helena (Napoleon), performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:57:885
Title: The Bugle Boy, performer: Tillett, C.K., location: Roanoke Island (N.C.) | Dare County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:52:115
Track List
Title: The Forsaken Lover, performer: Simpson, Eleanor, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:19:888
Title: Little Mary Fagan (Little Mary Fagan and Leo), performer: Simpson, Eleanor, location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:59:942
Title: Lullaby, performer: Hauser, Jessie, location: Pfafftown (N.C.) | Forsyth County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:49:195
Title: My Grandmother Lives On Yonder Little Green, performer: Hauser, Jessie, location: Pfafftown (N.C.) | Forsyth County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:20:995
Title: No Sir, performer: Hauser, Jessie, location: Pfafftown (N.C.) | Forsyth County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:31:148
Title: I'm Standing In the Shoes of John, performer: Hauser, Jessie, location: Pfafftown (N.C.) | Forsyth County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:33:148
Title: Rig a Jig and Away We Go [Game], performer: Allen, Gertrude, location: Taylorsville (N.C.) | Alexander County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:30:301
Title: The Owl and the Raven, performer: Allen, Gertrude, location: Taylorsville (N.C.) | Alexander County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:26:595
Title: Shortnin' Bread, performer: Allen, Gertrude, location: Taylorsville (N.C.) | Alexander County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:12:162
Title: Charlie Brooks, performer: Allen, Gertrude, location: Taylorsville (N.C.) | Alexander County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:17:034
Title: Somebody, performer: Allen, Gertrude, location: Taylorsville (N.C.) | Alexander County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:15:930
Title: Sparkin' On a Sunday Night, performer: Allen, Gertrude, location: Taylorsville (N.C.) | Alexander County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:28:380
Title: Billy Grimes, performer: Allen, Gertrude, location: Taylorsville (N.C.) | Alexander County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:24:493
Title: Going Up Cripple Creek [Cripple Creek], performer: Allen, Gertrude, location: Taylorsville (N.C.) | Alexander County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:06:687
Title: Old Man, performer: Allen, Gertrude, location: Taylorsville (N.C.) | Alexander County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:18:150
Title: I've Been Wondering All My Life, performer: Allen, Gertrude, location: Taylorsville (N.C.) | Alexander County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:12:985
Title: Nell Cropsey (The Lexington Murder), performer: Allen, Gertrude, location: Taylorsville (N.C.) | Alexander County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:36:359
Track List
Title: unknown, performer: Hauser, Jessie, location: Pfafftown (N.C.) | Forsyth County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:28:554
Title: unknown, performer: Hauser, Jessie, location: Pfafftown (N.C.) | Forsyth County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:24:316
Title: Old Grimes is Dead, performer: Frisbie, Zilpah, location: Marion (N.C.) | McDowell County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:37:955
Title: Sinful to Flirt, performer: Frisbie, Zilpah, location: Marion (N.C.) | McDowell County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:33:500
Title: Pearl Bryant (Down In a Lone Valley), performer: Frisbie, Zilpah, location: Marion (N.C.) | McDowell County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:42:009
Title: White Gal - Yaller Gal - Black Gal, performer: Frisbie, Zilpah, location: Marion (N.C.) | McDowell County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:28:679
Title: Orphan Girl, performer: Walton, Beulah, location: Morrisville (N.C.) | Wake County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:33:506
Title: Frail Wildwood Flower, performer: Walton, Beulah, location: Morrisville (N.C.) | Wake County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:21:043
Title: The Drunkard's Lone Child, performer: Walton, Beulah, location: Morrisville (N.C.) | Wake County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:32:547
Title: The Stepmother, performer: Walton, Beulah, location: Morrisville (N.C.) | Wake County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:56:925
Title: Oh Mollie Dear (Springfield Mountain), performer: Walton, Beulah, location: Morrisville (N.C.) | Wake County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:44:346
Title: Old Nappa, performer: Walton, Beulah, location: Morrisville (N.C.) | Wake County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:27:377
Title: Susy Gal, performer: Walton, Beulah, location: Morrisville (N.C.) | Wake County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:13:635
Title: Poor Married Man, performer: Walton, Beulah, location: Morrisville (N.C.) | Wake County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:16:886
Title: Meet Me In the Moonlight, performer: Walton, Beulah, location: Morrisville (N.C.) | Wake County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:29:991
Track List
Recorded signal is extremely low or object has physically deteriorated to the point where content cannot be determined.
Track List
Title: Old Bob Ridley, performer: Martin, H.C., location: Blowing Rock (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.) | Caldwell County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:17:282
Title: The Old Sow, performer: Martin, H.C., location: Blowing Rock (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.) | Caldwell County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:01:659
Title: Ace and Deuce of Diamonds, performer: Martin, H.C., location: Blowing Rock (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.) | Caldwell County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:44:340
Track List
Title: There was a little family that lived in Bethany...', performer: Wilson, Leander, location: Silverstone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:37:600
Title: unknown, performer: Wilson, Leander, location: Silverstone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:11:543
Track List
Title: In the Valley, performer: Wilson, Leander, location: Silverstone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:03:227
Title: unknown, performer: Wilson, Leander, location: Silverstone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:56:010
Track List
Title: Lillie Shaw, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:15:175
Title: Ore Knob, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:22:537
Track List
Title: Lexington Murder [variant], performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:02:28:140
Track List
Title: Way out west in my sunshiny home' "Rustic Life', performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:46:323
Title: Wagoner's Lad, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:46:352
Track List
Title: Claude Allen, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:02:48:386
Track List
Title: unknown, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:05:143
Title: House Carpenter, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:18:766
Track List
Title: unknown, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:03:06:663
Track List
Title: unknown, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:15:292
Title: unknown, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:53:274
Title: George Collins, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:35:821
Track List
Title: Battleship Maine (II), performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:02:11:992
Title: Heathen Chinese, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:57:280
Track List
Title: I'm Going Down the Mobile Line', performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:08:056
Title: Banjo Music, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:03:469
Title: Banjo Music, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:41:623
Track List
Title: That Blue-Eyed Girl, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:19:165
Title: Surely I Can Do, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:07:458
Track List
Title: Banjo Music, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:56:519
Title: Banjo Music, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:08:120
Track List
Title: Banjo Music, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:01:961
Title: My Sister On a Doola, performer: unknown, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:30:301
Title: Wheel in a Wheel, performer: unknown, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:31:916
Track List
Title: Brother are You Ready, performer: Guest , Lee | Willis, Matthew | Wilson, Booker T. | Wilson, Eugene, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:02:407
Title: John Was A-Riding, performer: Guest , Lee | Willis, Matthew | Wilson, Booker T. | Wilson, Eugene, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:07:661
Track List
Title: Stewball, performer: Guest , Lee | Willis, Matthew | Wilson, Booker T. | Wilson, Eugene, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:51:321
Title: Just Look at the People, performer: Guest , Lee | Willis, Matthew | Wilson, Booker T. | Wilson, Eugene, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:20:386
Track List
Title: Jesus Christ (I want to go to heaven), performer: Crosby, Louis | White, James | Winstead, Newman | Wolven, James, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:35:635
Title: Truly, Truly, performer: Crosby, Louis | White, James | Winstead, Newman | Wolven, James, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:08:981
Track List
Title: Where the Lord Went to Pray, performer: Crosby, Louis | White, James | Winstead, Newman | Wolven, James, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:56:127
Title: Lord I Can't Sit Down, performer: Crosby, Louis | White, James | Winstead, Newman | Wolven, James, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:54:542
Track List
Title: Little Mohee, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:28:547
Title: Old Ship of Zion, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:34:912
Track List
Title: Edward Lewis, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:33:516
Track List
Title: Banjo Music, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:12:673
Title: Oh I'm out here for the last time..., performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:50:542
Title: Goodbye to the Cracking of the Pistols, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:34:733
Title: Standing by the Old Cabin Door, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:02:10:191
Track List
Title: Old Raccoon, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:19:830
Title: Rainbow Division, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:18:783
Title: Old Smokey, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:53:975
Title: Instrumental, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:06:553
Track List
Title: Instrumental with fiddles, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:28:481
Title: Instrumental with fiddles, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:12:767
Title: Instrumental with fiddles, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:16:341
Title: Instrumental with fiddles, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:42:571
Track List
Title: Maggie Dear, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:02:28:828
Title: Instrumental with fiddles, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:34:308
Title: Instrumental with fiddles, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:32:564
Track List
Title: Flute Music, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:58:563
Title: Down In the Valley to Pray, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:18:763
Title: unknown, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:10:905
Title: Wife of Usher's Well, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:02:18:980
Track List
Title: Fiddle music, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:05:477
Title: Fiddle music, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:03:885
Title: Fiddle music, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:07:486
Title: Fiddle music, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:10:985
Title: Fiddle music, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:47:729
Track List
Title: Pretty Fair Maid Down In the Garden, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:02:48:950
Title: Little Mohea, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:02:29:613
Track List
Title: Young Charlotte, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:03:28:503
Title: Black Jack Davy, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:59:774
Track List
Title: Hog Drovers, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:30:486
Title: Darling Caisy Dean, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:56:970
Title: Black Sally, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:42:324
Title: Lord Lovel, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:18:756
Title: The Twa Sisters (Old Man From the North Country) [false start], performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:05:10:455
Title: Sourwood Mountain, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:22:910
Track List
Title: Oh Drowsy Sleeper, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:29:703
Title: Barbara Allen, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:56:277
Title: Sourwood Mountain, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:52:203
Title: Old Rattler, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:36:671
Track List
Title: Our Good Man, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:23:274
Title: Venison (Hunting Song), performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:23:742
Title: Darby's Ram, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:39:489
Title: The Blind Child (Girl), performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:12:895
Title: The Fatal Wedding Bells, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:43:775
Title: Billy Boy, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:20:374
Track List
Title: Blue Ridge Mountain Blues, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:33:998
Title: The Boston Burgular, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:44:575
Title: I'm as Free as a Little Bird, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:20:472
Title: Just Break the News to Mother, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:43:278
Title: Old Joe Clark, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:30:371
Track List
Title: The Little Mohee, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:36:966
Title: Louise, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:12:035
Title: Song of the Sunny South, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:49:006
Title: I Offer This Hand of Mine, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:12:001
Track List
Title: Lulu Falls, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:54:611
Title: Mae, Dearest Mae, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:30:351
Title: Kingdom Coming (Massa's Gone Away), performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:29:819
Title: Somebody's Knocking at Your Do', performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:05:183
Title: Somebody's Waiting For Me, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:45:900
Title: There is No One Like Mother to Me, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:19:184
Track List
Title: Lover's Return, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:08:431
Title: Golden Bells, performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:02:042
Title: Raindrop Waltz [Instrumental], performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:32:364
Title: Spanish Fandango [Instrumental], performer: Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:43:268
Title: Lonesome Road Blues [Instrumental], performer: Kuykendall, Otis | Robinson, G.S., location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:25:313
Title: John Henry, performer: Robinson, G.S. | Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:55:881
Track List
Title: John Henry, performer: Robinson, G.S., location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:29:037
Title: The Man From Arkansas, performer: Robinson, G.S. | Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:52:759
Title: He Never Came Back, performer: Robinson, G.S. | Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:27:667
Title: The Dying Cow Girl, performer: Robinson, G.S. | Kuykendall, Otis, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:03:525
Track List
Title: The Red, White, and Blue, performer: Robinson, G.S., location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:39:878
Title: Sorghum Molasses, performer: Robinson, G.S., location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:19:882
Title: In The Shade of the Old Apple Tree, performer: Robinson, G.S., location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:57:481
Title: The Kicking Mule, performer: Robinson, G.S., location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:27:651
Track List
Title: I Wish That Gal Was Mine, performer: Robinson, G.S., location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:04:961
Title: Darling Chloe, performer: Robinson, G.S., location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:22:175
Title: The Cruel Brother (O Lily O), performer: Gordon, Becky, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:04:01:717
Title: Lord Thomas and Fair Annet (Lord Thomas), performer: Gordon, Becky, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:10:347
Title: Pretty Fair Maid (Fair Maiden In a Garden), performer: Gordon, Becky, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:18:627
Track List
Title: Little Musgrove and Lady Barnard (Little Matthy Groves), performer: Walker, Edith, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:05:01:974
Title: James Harris (Housecarpenter), performer: Michael, Chloe, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:24:692
Title: Gypsie Laddie (Black Jack Davy), performer: Michael, Chloe, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:13:121
Track List
Title: The Silk Merchant's Daughter, performer: Gordon, Becky, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:41:471
Title: Lord Randal (Ransome), performer: Gordon, Becky, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:21:461
Title: James Harris (Housecarpenter), performer: Gordon, Becky, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:21:489
Title: Lady Isabel and the Elf Knight (Lady Isabel), performer: Gordon, Becky, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:47:095
Title: Drinking Song, performer: Gordon, Becky, location: Asheville (N.C.) | Buncombe County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:00:548
Track List
Title: Jack and the Old Rich Man [Prose Tale], performer: Proffitt, Frank, location: unknown, running time: 00:10:33:767
Track List
Title: Lord Thomas and Fair Annet (Fair Ellender, or The Brown Girl), performer: McGuire, G., location: Heaton (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:07:059
Title: Lady Isabel and the Elf Knight, performer: Church, Jamie, location: Heaton (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:57:987
Title: The Sinking of the Titanic, performer: Church, Jamie, location: Heaton (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:05:142
Title: Barbara Allen, performer: Trivette, John, location: Heaton (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:17:563
Track List
Title: The Farmer's Curst Wife (The Woman and the Devil), performer: Church, Jamie, location: Heaton (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:30:501
Title: Young Charlotte (Fair Charlotte), performer: Church, Minnie, location: Heaton (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:05:01:931
Title: Gypsie Laddie (Black Jack Davy), performer: Church, Jamie, location: Heaton (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:33:689
Title: The Golden Glove (Young Caroline Was a Lady), performer: Trivette, John, location: Heaton (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:57:392
Track List
Title: George Collins, performer: Church, Jamie | Church, Minnie | Webb , Pearle, location: Heaton (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:57:298
Title: The Drunkard's Home, performer: Church, Jamie | Church, Minnie | Webb , Pearle, location: Heaton (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:44:808
Title: The Bloody Miller (The Cruel Miller), performer: Trivette, John, location: Heaton (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:41:036
Title: Lillie Shaw, performer: Church, Jamie, location: Heaton (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:29:452
Title: Young Hunting (Oh Henery), performer: Church, Jamie | Trivette, John, location: Heaton (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:49:763
Track List
Title: Wicked Polly, performer: Church, Minnie, location: Heaton (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:04:290
Title: Pretty Polly, performer: Church, Jamie, location: Heaton (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:47:132
Title: Hick's Farewell, performer: Church, G.F. (Grandpa), location: Heaton (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:22:938
Title: The Twelve Days of Christmas, performer: Watson, G.M., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:35:367
Title: Pretty Polly, performer: Watson , Faye, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:23:049
Track List
Title: Pretty Polly [Cuckoo verse], performer: York, James, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:59:963
Title: The Rake and the Rambling Boy, performer: York, James, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:22:237
Title: Young Beichan (Lord Bateman), performer: York, James, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:05:01:762
Track List
Title: Young Beichan (Lord Bateman), performer: York, James, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:05:30:757
Title: Geordie [1st air], performer: York, James, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:25:910
Title: Geordie [2nd air], performer: York, James, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:55:793
Title: Gypsie Laddie (Black Jack Davy), performer: York, James, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:02:981
Track List
Title: Father Along, performer: Pittman Brothers, location: Hand, running time: 00:03:15:292
Title: Barbara Allen, performer: Pittman Brothers, location: Hand, running time: 00:04:16:523
Title: Down In the Garden To Pray (All My Sins Been Taken Away), performer: Pittman Brothers, location: Hand, running time: 00:03:10:044
Track List
Title: Haul Away Joe, performer: Leary, Thomas, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:55:688
Title: What Shall We Do with a Drunken Sailor?, performer: Leary, Thomas, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:32:518
Title: Whiskey Johnny, performer: Leary, Thomas, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:37:785
Title: When Johnny Goes Down to Rilo, performer: Leary, Thomas, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:48:442
Title: Blow the Man Down, performer: Leary, Thomas, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:38:379
Title: Hanging Johnny, performer: Leary, Thomas, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:32:082
Title: Lanky Lucy Lister, performer: Leary, Thomas, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:23:188
Title: Hullabaloo Balay, performer: Leary, Thomas, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:36:893
Title: Pretty Polly, performer: York, James, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:56:077
Title: O Drowsy Sleeper, performer: York, James, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:06:999
Track List
Title: Charming Beauty Bride, performer: York, James, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:48:469
Title: No Sign of a Marriage, performer: York, James, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:00:202
Title: William Riley, performer: York, James, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:04:00:910
Track List
Title: Maid Freed From the Gallows (Go Slacken Your Rope), performer: York, James, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:46:447
Title: Lord Ullin's Daughter, performer: York, James, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:08:773
Title: Early, Early In the Spring, performer: York, James, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:01:570
Title: Young Hunting (Lord Bonnie), performer: York, James, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:41:500
Title: Bonny Blue Eyes, performer: York, James, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:30:730
Track List
Title: Young Johnny, performer: Eggers, Herman A., location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:35:326
Title: Piggy Wiggy, performer: Eggers, Herman A., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:40:621
Title: Frog Went A-Courtin', performer: Eggers, Herman A., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:18:908
Title: Barbara Allen, performer: Eggers, Herman A., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:02:013
Title: Cock Robin, performer: Eggers, Herman A., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:16:547
Track List
Title: Our Good Man, performer: Webb , Pearle, location: Pineola (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:59:044
Title: Rattlesnake (Nice Young Ma-Wa-Wan), performer: Webb , Pearle, location: Pineola (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:44:855
Title: George Collins, performer: Webb , Pearle, location: Pineola (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:59:490
Title: Geordie [Spoken interlude], performer: Webb , Pearle, location: Pineola (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:34:233
Title: Pretty Saro, performer: Webb , Pearle, location: Pineola (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:25:241
Track List
Title: Had an Old Shoe, performer: Webb , Pearle, location: Pineola (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:40:957
Title: Maid Freed From the Gallows (Hangman's Tree), performer: Webb , Pearle, location: Pineola (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:34:944
Title: Pretty Polly, performer: Webb , Pearle, location: Pineola (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:23:583
Title: I Wish I Was a Mole In the Ground, performer: Webb , Pearle, location: Pineola (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:18:981
Title: Pretty Fair Maid (The Broken Token), performer: Thomas , Ettie, location: Pineola (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:07:767
Title: Pretty Peggy, O, performer: Thomas , Ettie, location: Pineola (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:10:294
Track List
Title: Wife Wrapped Up In Wether Skin (Dandoo), performer: Walker, Edith, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:17:668
Title: Margaret and William, performer: Palmer, Lora H., location: Senia (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:57:370
Title: Lass of Roch Royal, performer: Palmer, Lora H., location: Senia (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:29:957
Title: Silver Threads Among Gold, performer: Houston, Mabel | Wiseman, Lola, location: Upper Hinson's Creek, running time: 00:01:15:480
Title: unknown, performer: Houston, Myron | Wiseman, Bowie, location: North Carolina, running time: 00:01:31:963
Title: Cumberland Gap, performer: Wiseman, Bowie, location: Upper Hinson's Creek, running time: 00:01:58:573
Track List
Title: Cackling Hen, performer: Wiseman, Bowie, location: Upper Hinson's Creek, running time: 00:01:10:850
Title: Humpback Mule, performer: Houston, Myron | Wiseman, Bowie, location: Upper Hinson's Creek, running time: 00:01:28:265
Title: Don't Forget Me Little Darling, performer: Wiseman, Bowie | Wiseman, Lola | Houston, Mabel | Houston, Myron, location: Upper Hinson's Creek, running time: 00:01:26:067
Title: Alabama Gals (Buffalo Gals), performer: Houston, Myron | Wiseman, Bowie, location: Upper Hinson's Creek, running time: 00:02:01:805
Title: Johnson Boys, performer: Houston, Myron | Wiseman, Bowie, location: Upper Hinson's Creek, running time: 00:00:44:833
Title: Cindy, performer: Houston, Myron | Wiseman, Bowie, location: Upper Hinson's Creek, running time: 00:01:33:490
Track List
Title: Bury Me 'Neath the Weeping Willow Tree, performer: Wiseman, Bowie | Wiseman, Lola | Houston, Mabel | Houston, Myron, location: Upper Hinson's Creek, running time: 00:02:12:289
Title: Life is Like a Mountain Railroad, performer: Wiseman, Bowie | Wiseman, Lola | Houston, Mabel | Houston, Myron, location: Upper Hinson's Creek, running time: 00:01:58:183
Title: Eliza Jane, performer: Wiseman, Bowie | Wiseman, Lola | Houston, Mabel | Houston, Myron, location: Upper Hinson's Creek, running time: 00:01:54:090
Title: Going Down Road Feeling Bad, performer: Wiseman, Bowie | Wiseman, Lola | Houston, Mabel | Houston, Myron, location: Upper Hinson's Creek, running time: 00:01:54:802
Title: Honeysuckle Blues [Instrumental], performer: Wiseman, Bowie | Houston, Myron, location: Upper Hinson's Creek, running time: 00:01:16:528
Track List
Title: Chicken Reel, performer: Wiseman, Lola, location: Upper Hinson's Creek, running time: 00:00:50:252
Title: Blue Ridge Mountain Home [Harmonica and guitar], performer: Houston, Myron, location: Upper Hinson's Creek, running time: 00:01:10:002
Title: You Got to See Mother Every Night, performer: Houston, Myron, location: Upper Hinson's Creek, running time: 00:01:08:949
Title: Coming Round the Mountain [Square dance], performer: Wiseman, Bowie | Houston, Myron, location: Upper Hinson's Creek, running time: 00:01:29:166
Title: Sourwood Mountain, performer: Wiseman, Bowie | Wiseman, Lola | Houston, Mabel | Houston, Myron, location: Upper Hinson's Creek, running time: 00:00:56:173
Title: High Top Shoes, performer: Wiseman, Bowie | Wiseman, Lola | Houston, Mabel | Houston, Myron, location: Upper Hinson's Creek, running time: 00:01:13:507
Title: Old Burke County, performer: Wiseman, Bowie | Wiseman, Lola | Houston, Mabel | Houston, Myron, location: Upper Hinson's Creek, running time: 00:01:09:223
Track List
Title: Ground Hog, performer: Wiseman, Bowie | Wiseman, Lola | Houston, Mabel | Houston, Myron, location: Upper Hinson's Creek, running time: 00:00:57:593
Title: Reuben's Train (Train No. 45), performer: Houston, Mabel, location: Upper Hinson's Creek, running time: 00:01:37:724
Title: Dear Old Southern Home (The Little Log Cabin By the Sea), performer: Wiseman, Lola | Houston, Mabel, location: Upper Hinson's Creek, running time: 00:02:03:999
Title: Red Wing [instrumental], performer: Wiseman, Bowie | Houston, Mabel | Hicks, Edgar, location: Upper Hinson's Creek, running time: 00:01:32:392
Title: Yodeling Cowboy, performer: Wiseman, Bowie | Wiseman, Lola | Houston, Mabel | Houston, Myron, location: Upper Hinson's Creek, running time: 00:01:51:358
Track List
Title: Flitting Away, performer: Hughes, Arizona, location: Upper Hinson's Creek, running time: 00:01:08:891
Title: unknown, performer: Hughes, Arizona, location: Upper Hinson's Creek, running time: 00:01:47:870
Title: The Twelve Blessings of Mary, performer: Hughes, Arizona, location: Upper Hinson's Creek, running time: 00:02:26:354
Track List
Title: Such a Gittin' Up Stairs, performer: Bradley,, location: Blowing Rock (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.) | Caldwell County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:17:850
Title: Blow Gabriel, performer: Bradley,, location: Blowing Rock (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.) | Caldwell County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:14:793
Title: The Tallest Tree In Paradise, performer: Bradley,, location: Blowing Rock (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.) | Caldwell County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:28:623
Title: The Twelve Blessings of Mary, performer: Hughes, Arizona, location: Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:04:11:623
Track List
Title: The Little Family (Martha and Mary), performer: Moody , Cynthia, location: Spear (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:43:983
Title: The Watchman's Call, performer: Wiseman, Manassa, location: Foot of Buck Hill, running time: 00:01:54:940
Title: Barbara Allen, performer: Wiseman, Manassa, location: Foot of Buck Hill, running time: 00:01:08:427
Title: Oh Brother Greene Come to Me (War Song), performer: Greene, Manley, location: Zionville (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:25:958
Title: The Orphan Girl, performer: Greene, Manley, location: Zionville (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:36:322
Track List
Title: The F.F.V. (Wreck of No. 4), performer: Greene, Bessy, location: Zionville (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:04:15:488
Title: The Silver Dagger (Wake Up You Drowsy Sleeper) (Betsy and Johnny), performer: Greene, Bessy, location: Zionville (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:01:735
Title: Pretty Fair Maid, performer: Greene, Bessy, location: Zionville (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:07:971
Track List
Title: Barbara Allen, performer: Buchanan, H.R., location: Minneapolis (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:42:795
Title: Come All Ye Fair and Tender Ladies, performer: Buchanan, H.R., location: Minneapolis (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:34:451
Title: Francis Silvers (Franklin), performer: Buchanan, H.R., location: Minneapolis (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:04:09:037
Title: The Little Rosewood Casket, performer: Buchanan, H.R., location: Minneapolis (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:33:891
Title: The Little Mohee, performer: Buchanan, H.R., location: Minneapolis (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:25:160
Track List
Title: Venison (Hunting Song), performer: Love, Will 'Shorty', location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:28:911
Title: The Titanic (God Roved On the Waters), performer: Love, Will 'Shorty', location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:37:535
Title: Oh Lord Search My Heart, performer: Love, Will 'Shorty', location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:57:744
Title: Old Time Religion, performer: Love, Will 'Shorty', location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:21:547
Track List
Title: Strange Things Was A-Happening, performer: Love, Will 'Shorty', location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:34:564
Title: Gimme Oil In My Lamp, performer: Love, Will 'Shorty', location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:26:984
Title: Christ Was a Weary Traveler, performer: Love, Will 'Shorty', location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:08:460
Title: Just One Way to the Pearly Gate, performer: Love, Will 'Shorty', location: Durham (N.C.) | Durham County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:06:676
Track List
Title: The Titanic (Sinking of the Titanic), performer: Lineberger, Nancy, location: Shelby (N.C.) | Cleveland County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:51:116
Track List
Title: The Frail Wildwood Flowers, performer: Hughes, W.W., location: Jonas Ridge (N.C.) | Burke County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:22:727
Title: Naomi Wise (John Lewis), performer: Sanders, Eliza, location: Jonas Ridge (N.C.) | Burke County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:52:884
Title: Leap Frog John, performer: Sanders, Eliza, location: Jonas Ridge (N.C.) | Burke County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:55:081
Title: Jim Barrier's Murder, performer: Crump, L.B., location: Jonas Ridge (N.C.) | Burke County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:26:381
Track List
Title: The Frail Wildwood Flowers, performer: Hughes, W.W., location: Jonas Ridge (N.C.) | Burke County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:26:192
Title: Naomi Wise (John Lewis), performer: Sanders, Eliza, location: Jonas Ridge (N.C.) | Burke County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:47:326
Title: Leap Frog John, performer: Sanders, Eliza, location: Jonas Ridge (N.C.) | Burke County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:53:127
Title: Jim Barrier's Murder, performer: Crump, L.B., location: Jonas Ridge (N.C.) | Burke County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:25:119
Track List
Title: Haunted House [illegible]...with Cat [Prose tale], performer: Crump, L.B., location: Jonas Ridge (N.C.) | Burke County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:03:784
Title: Tales of Hull Hill, performer: Crump, L.B., location: Jonas Ridge (N.C.) | Burke County (N.C.), running time: 00:04:52:057
Title: Runt and the Haunted Pine Tree, performer: Crump, L.B., location: Jonas Ridge (N.C.) | Burke County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:18:037
Track List
Title: The Yaller Bird: Hunting Story [Prose tale], performer: Crump, L.B., location: Jonas Ridge (N.C.) | Burke County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:05:179
Title: The Vision of Aunt Sallie Simms [Prose tale], performer: Vance, I.D., location: Pineola (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:10:01:357
Track List
Title: The Vision of Aunt Sallie Simms [Prose tale][continued], performer: Vance, I.D., location: Pineola (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:36:338
Title: What Caused the Brown Mountain Light, performer: Vance, I.D., location: Pineola (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:04:38:922
Track List
Title: Ghost Story: Mysterious Footsteps, performer: Vance, I.D., location: Pineola (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:09:00:739
Track List
Title: Witch Story: Aunt Dinky Webb and Betty [Prose], performer: Vance, Ira M., location: Pineola (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:04:05:630
Title: Witch Story: Aunt Dinky Webb and Betty's Sweetheart [Prose], performer: Vance, Ira M., location: Pineola (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:39:399
Track List
Title: The Model Church, performer: Stamey, Ephraim, location: Altamont (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:05:32:684
Title: And Must I Be to Judgement Brought, performer: Stamey, Ephraim, location: Altamont (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:14:166
Track List
Title: The Lone Pilgrim, performer: Stamey, Ephraim | Dellinger, Hestabel, location: Altamont (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:56:157
Title: Gypsie Laddie (Gypsy Daisy), performer: Stamey, Ephraim, location: Altamont (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:04:00:226
Title: Pretty Fair Maid (Seven Long Years), performer: Stamey, Ephraim, location: Altamont (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:13:696
Title: Young Johnny (O Johnny), performer: Stamey, Ephraim, location: Altamont (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:36:200
Track List
Title: The Old Man, performer: Stamey, Ephraim, location: Altamont (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:14:349
Title: Little Bunch of Roses, performer: Stamey, Ephraim, location: Altamont (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:53:047
Title: Froggie Went A-Courtin', performer: Stamey, Ephraim, location: Altamont (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:37:916
Title: Lord Thomas and Fair Annet, performer: Stamey, Ephraim, location: Altamont (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:53:453
Title: The Skeptic's Daughter, performer: Stamey, Ephraim, location: Altamont (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:01:483
Title: The Waggoner Lad (Driver's Boy), performer: Stamey, Ephraim, location: Altamont (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:14:060
Title: The Wagonner Lad, performer: Stamey, Ephraim, location: Altamont (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:35:179
Title: The Waggoner Lad, performer: Dellinger, Hestabel, location: Altamont (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:47:080
Track List
Title: The Faithful Lovers, performer: Dellinger, Hestabel, location: Altamont (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:26:187
Title: Little Rosewood Casket, performer: Dellinger, Hestabel | Stamey, Ephraim, location: Altamont (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:48:626
Title: Ole Smokey (Old Smoky), performer: Johnson, Obadiah (Obie), location: Crossnore (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:52:944
Title: Come All Ye Fair and Tender Ladies, performer: Johnson, Obadiah (Obie), location: Crossnore (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:55:942
Track List
Title: Seven Long Years I've Been Married, performer: Johnson, Obadiah (Obie), location: Crossnore (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:22:437
Title: Great Grandad, performer: Johnson, Obadiah (Obie), location: Crossnore (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:17:946
Title: I Wonder As I Wander, performer: Johnson, Obadiah (Obie), location: Crossnore (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:27:576
Title: Housekeeper's Tragedy, performer: Johnson, Obadiah (Obie), location: Crossnore (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:37:482
Track List
Title: Old Woman, performer: Burleson, Clarice (Claire) | Powles, Joe, location: Crossnore (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:22:781
Title: Hole In the Bucket, performer: Burleson, Clarice (Claire) | Powles, Joe, location: Crossnore (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:30:772
Title: Billy Boy, performer: Burleson, Clarice (Claire) | Powles, Joe, location: Crossnore (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:14:173
Title: Paper of Pins, performer: Burleson, Clarice (Claire) | Powles, Joe, location: Crossnore (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:40:144
Track List
Title: Captain Wedderburn's Courtship (Riddle Song), performer: Johnson, Obadiah (Obie), location: Crossnore (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:16:106
Title: Ground Hog, performer: Johnson, Obadiah (Obie), location: Crossnore (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:54:114
Title: Frog Went A-Courtin', performer: Burleson, Clarice (Claire), location: Crossnore (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:02:138
Title: Grandma Grunts, performer: Burleson, Clarice (Claire) | Powles, Joe, location: Crossnore (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:00:629
Title: Possum Up a Simmon Tree, performer: Burleson, Clarice (Claire) | Powles, Joe, location: Crossnore (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:57:143
Track List
Title: Square Dance Figures, performer: Carolina Ramblers | Greer, John, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:24:516
Title: Dance Tune, performer: Carolina Ramblers | Greer, John, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:00:690
Title: Frog Went A' Courtin', performer: York, James, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:14:833
Title: Poor Tommy, performer: York, James, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:11:536
Title: Poor Willie (Sinful to Flirt), performer: Ward, Sena, location: Reidsville (N.C.) | Rockingham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:48:663
Title: Pretty Fair Maid, performer: Ward, Sena, location: Reidsville (N.C.) | Rockingham County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:25:861
Title: Frog Went A' Courtin', performer: Eggers, Herman A., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:27:578
Track List
Title: The Girl I Love Won't Pay Me No Mind, performer: Carolina Ramblers, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:48:546
Title: Rising Sun, performer: Carolina Ramblers | McMahair, Ed, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:35:994
Title: Ain't It Hard to Love a Girl that Don't Love You, performer: Carolina Ramblers, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:38:371
Title: One Old Shirt, performer: Carolina Ramblers | Story, Carl, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:52:418
Title: Old Age Pension Check, performer: Carolina Ramblers | Story, Carl, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:52:418
Title: Not Letter In the Mail, performer: Carolina Ramblers | Story, Carl, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:53:618
Track List
Title: Little Mary Fagin, performer: Rives, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:47:183
Title: Freight Train Blues, performer: Carolina Ramblers, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:32:694
Title: Up Jumped the Devil, performer: Carolina Ramblers, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:58:625
Title: Lord Ullin's Daughter, performer: York, James, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:42:661
Title: Georgie, performer: York, James, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:27:275
Title: Georgie [Her Little Mohee air], performer: York, James, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:17:940
Track List
Title: Gypsie Laddie (Gypsy Davy), performer: York, James, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:13:323
Title: Pretty Polly, performer: York, James, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:25:518
Title: Pretty Polly [Second air], performer: York, James, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:30:633
Title: Lady Isabel and the Elf Knight (The Seven King's Daughters), performer: York, James, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:37:725
Title: Maid Freed From the Gallows, performer: York, James, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:25:039
Title: The Lady and the Sailor, performer: York, James, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:13:300
Title: Goldie Locks', performer: York, James, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:00:763
Track List
Title: The Ditch of Briars, performer: York, James, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:28:410
Title: This Old Man, performer: Timmons, Laura B., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:27:566
Title: Wife Wrapped In Wether's Skin, performer: York, James, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:50:280
Title: Come All Ye Young Ladies, performer: York, James, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:51:483
Title: Little Musgrove and Lady Bernard (Little Matthy Groves), performer: York, James, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:19:467
Track List
Title: Old English Hunting Song, performer: York, James, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:10:541
Title: Barbara Allen, performer: York, James, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:17:713
Title: The Farmer's Curst Wife, performer: York, James, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:53:155
Title: Scolding Wife, performer: York, James, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:05:209
Title: Barbara Allen, performer: York, James, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:40:788
Title: London City, performer: Walker, Edith, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:28:159
Title: The Willow Garden, performer: Walker, Edith, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:29:865
Title: Georgie, performer: Webb , Pearle, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:57:768
Track List
Title: Our Goodman (My Goodman), performer: Webb , Pearle, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:21:609
Title: Granny Frome's Witch Tale [Prose], performer: Webb , Pearle, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:06:30:754
Title: Jealous Lover, performer: Hart, Lona, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:38:398
Track List
Title: Lord Lovel, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:31:436
Title: [Blank], performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:30:900
Title: FCB talking, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:39:356
Title: Barbara Allen, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:36:093
Title: Barbara Allen, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:30:511
Title: unknown, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:25:997
Title: Drink To Me Only With Thy Eyes, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:35:136
Track List
Title: The Twelve Apotles (Come I Will Sing You), performer: Walker, Edith, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:05:04:882
Title: The Knocking On the Barrel [Prose tale], performer: Wood, Granny', location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:58:352
Title: Ghost Story - Personal Experience [Prose tale], performer: Thomas , Ettie, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:42:328
Track List
Title: Three Witch Tales [Prose], performer: Thomas , Ettie, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:51:840
Title: Seeing the Coffin [Witch tale], performer: Thomas , Ettie, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:23:769
Title: The Four-Horse Wagon [Prose tale], performer: Thomas , Ettie, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:09:426
Title: A Treasure Hunt [Prose tale], performer: Thomas , Ettie, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:21:500
Title: Witch a Gossip [Prose tale], performer: Thomas , Ettie, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:10:270
Track List
Title: Young Beichan (Susan Price), performer: Hicks, Nora | Hicks, Addie, location: Mast Gap (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:04:42:082
Title: Young Charlotte, performer: Hicks, Nora, location: Mast Gap (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:04:26:421
Title: Lady Isabel and the Elf Knight, performer: Hicks, Nora, location: Mast Gap (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:22:503
Track List
Title: Lady Isabel and the Elf Knight (cont), performer: Hicks, Nora, location: Mast Gap (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:02:441
Title: Pretty Polly, performer: Hicks, Nora, location: Mast Gap (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:47:743
Title: Fair Margaret and Sweet William (Lady Margaret), performer: Hicks, Nora, location: Mast Gap (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:47:456
Track List
Title: William Riley, performer: Hicks, Nora, location: Mast Gap (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:26:299
Title: Sweet Sailor Boy, performer: Hicks, Nora, location: Mast Gap (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:28:784
Title: George Collins, performer: Hicks, Nora, location: Mast Gap (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:33:187
Title: James Harris (House Carpenter), performer: Hicks, Nora, location: Mast Gap (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:38:160
Track List
Title: Lord Thomas and Fair Annet (Lord Thomas andFair Annet Ellinger), performer: Hicks, Nora, location: Mast Gap (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:44:596
Title: The Sweet Trinity (Golden Willow Tree), performer: Hicks, Nora, location: Mast Gap (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:03:319
Title: William Riley, performer: Hicks, Nora, location: Mast Gap (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:03:019
Track List
Title: Lord Randall (Jimmy Randall) (Polly Von), performer: Hicks, Nora, location: Mast Gap (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:42:031
Title: The Rich Lady From London, performer: Hicks, Nora, location: Mast Gap (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:15:191
Title: The Lineback Hant [Prose tale], performer: Hicks, Nora, location: Hughes (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:04:05:065
Track List
Title: The Lineback Hant [Prose tale - concluded], performer: Hicks, Nora, location: Hughes (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:10:04:615
Track List
Title: Little Musgrove and Lady Barnard (Lord Daniel's Wife), performer: Hicks, Nora, location: Mast Gap (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:18:615
Title: Little Musgrove and Lady Barnard (Lord Daniel's Wife), performer: Hicks, Nora, location: Mast Gap (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:04:21:719
Title: Gypsie Laddie (Black Jack Davy), performer: Hicks, Nora, location: Mast Gap (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:43:056
Title: Lord Lovel, performer: Hicks, Nora, location: Mast Gap (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:10:009
Track List
Title: Jimmy Caldwell, performer: Hicks, Nora, location: Mast Gap (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:33:549
Title: The Wife of Usher's Well (Lady Bright), performer: Hicks, Nora, location: Mast Gap (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:46:807
Title: Robin Hood and the Beggar, performer: Hicks, Nora, location: Mast Gap (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:04:990
Title: Robin Hood and the Beggar, performer: Hicks, Nora, location: Mast Gap (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:12:780
Track List
Title: The Drunkard's Confession, performer: Hicks, Nora, location: Mast Gap (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:27:823
Title: Crucified Jesus, performer: Hicks, Nora, location: Mast Gap (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:00:609
Title: unknown, performer: unknown, location: Mast Gap (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:11:479
Track List
Title: Lord Randall, performer: Webb , Pearle, location: Pineola (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:36:706
Title: Maid Freed From the Gallows (Hangman's Tree), performer: Webb , Pearle, location: Pineola (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:23:011
Title: I Don't Know Why I Love Her, performer: Vance, Marylin | Binfield, Evelyn, location: Pineola (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:03:280
Track List
Title: When the Saints Go Marching In, performer: Alice the cook, location: Greensboro (N.C.) | Guilford County (N.C.), running time: 00:04:10:038
Track List
Title: Child Riddles, performer: Weavers Bonny, The, location: Virginia, running time: 00:00:56:954
Title: The Two Sisters (Old Man from North Countree), performer: Weavers Bonny, The, location: Virginia, running time: 00:00:40:639
Title: There Was an Old Woman In Our Town, performer: Weavers Bonny, The, location: Virginia, running time: 00:00:43:745
Title: The Brown Girl (Sweet Sally), performer: Weavers Bonny, The, location: Virginia, running time: 00:01:06:914
Title: Edward, performer: Weavers Bonny, The, location: Virginia, running time: 00:03:04:253
Track List
Title: The Maid Freed From the Gallows (Hangman, Hangman), performer: Church , Steve, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:12:272
Title: The Maid Freed From the Gallows (Hangman, Hangman), performer: Johnson, Anna, location: North Wilkesboro (N.C.) | Wilkes County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:44:000
Title: Lord Thomas and Fair Annet, performer: Barker, Horton, location: unknown, running time: 00:02:17:253
Title: The Riddle Song, performer: Barker, Horton, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:28:779
Title: Claud Allen, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:23:099
Title: Fair Margaret and Sweet William, performer: York, James, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:20:139
Title: The Cambrie Shirt, performer: York, James, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:09:667
Track List
Title: Jack's Gone A-Calling, performer: York, James, location: unknown, running time: 00:00:33:358
Title: The Two Sisters, performer: Johnson, Anna, location: North Wilkesboro (N.C.) | Wilkes County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:07:232
Title: Karl Brand, performer: Johnson, Anna, location: North Wilkesboro (N.C.) | Wilkes County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:55:027
Title: Early, Early In the Spring, performer: York, James, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:54:396
Title: James Harris (The House Carpenter), performer: York, James, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:25:980
Track List
Title: The Sweet Trinity (The Golden Willow Tree), performer: York, James, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:46:103
Title: Young Johnny, performer: York, James, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:20:407
Title: Get Up and Bar the Door, performer: York, James, location: Olin (N.C.) | Iredell County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:02:920
Track List
Title: July 14th 1939 in Blowing Rock..., performer: unknown, location: Blowing Rock (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.) | Caldwell County (N.C.), running time:
Title: July 14th 1939 in Blowing Rock..., performer: unknown, location: Blowing Rock (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.) | Caldwell County (N.C.), running time:
Title: George Collins, performer: unknown, location: Blowing Rock (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.) | Caldwell County (N.C.), running time:
Title: Talking, performer: unknown, location: Blowing Rock (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.) | Caldwell County (N.C.), running time:
Title: Lord Lovel, performer: unknown, location: Blowing Rock (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.) | Caldwell County (N.C.), running time:
Track List
Title: George Collins, performer: unknown, location: Blowing Rock (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.) | Caldwell County (N.C.), running time:
Title: Lord Lovel (and Lady Nancy), performer: unknown, location: Blowing Rock (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.) | Caldwell County (N.C.), running time:
Title: Lord Lovel, performer: unknown, location: Blowing Rock (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.) | Caldwell County (N.C.), running time:
Title: Will You Love Me In December As You Do In May, performer: unknown, location: Blowing Rock (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.) | Caldwell County (N.C.), running time:
Title: Poem 1, performer: unknown, location: Blowing Rock (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.) | Caldwell County (N.C.), running time:
Title: Talking, performer: unknown, location: Blowing Rock (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.) | Caldwell County (N.C.), running time:
Track List
Title: Floyd Collins, performer: Barker, Horton, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:31:210
Title: Kind Wife, performer: Barker, Horton, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:30:104
Track List
Title: Barbara Allen, performer: Tarwater, Becky, location: Redwood (TN) | Tennessee, running time: 00:02:34:280
Track List
Title: Monday I Was Arrested, performer: unknown, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:37:976
Title: Pick em Up (Lulu), performer: unknown, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:31:700
Track List
Title: Remember Me, performer: unknown, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:31:967
Title: Blues: You Have Me Down, Babe [solo], performer: unknown, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:16:194
Track List
Title: Songs of the Buffaloe, performer: Lomax, John A., location: unknown, running time: 00:01:41:483
Track List
Title: Seven Year Song, performer: Miller, Myra Barnett, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:25:289
Track List
Title: The Knoxville Girl (The Lexington Murder), performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:02:09:557
Title: On a Dark and Stormy night, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:36:833
Title: Away on a Hill, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:31:416
Track List
Title: Ground Hog, performer: unknown, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:00:076
Track List
Title: Seven Years Song (Pretty Fair Maid), performer: Miller, Myra Barnett, location: Tuckasegee (N.C.) | Jackson County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:33:861
Title: Young Johnny, performer: Miller, Myra Barnett, location: Tuckasegee (N.C.) | Jackson County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:50:023
Track List
Title: The Sweet Trinity (Golden Willow Tree), performer: Miller, Myra Barnett, location: Tuckasegee (N.C.) | Jackson County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:38:699
Title: Lass of Loch Royal, performer: Miller, Myra Barnett, location: Tuckasegee (N.C.) | Jackson County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:57:501
Track List
Title: Wagonner's Lad, performer: Miller, Myra Barnett, location: Tuckasegee (N.C.) | Jackson County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:02:291
Title: Wagonner's Lad, performer: Miller, Myra Barnett, location: Tuckasegee (N.C.) | Jackson County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:03:979
Title: Sweet Willie, performer: Miller, Myra Barnett, location: Tuckasegee (N.C.) | Jackson County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:33:071
Track List
Title: James Harris (House Carpenter), performer: Miller, Myra Barnett, location: Tuckasegee (N.C.) | Jackson County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:34:156
Track List
Title: Our Good Man (Good Wife, Kind Wife), performer: Miller, Myra Barnett, location: Tuckasegee (N.C.) | Jackson County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:28:034
Title: Lord Lovel, performer: Miller, Myra Barnett, location: Tuckasegee (N.C.) | Jackson County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:55:307
Title: unknown, performer: Miller, Myra Barnett, location: Tuckasegee (N.C.) | Jackson County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:14:608
Title: Romish Lady, performer: Miller, Myra Barnett, location: Tuckasegee (N.C.) | Jackson County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:32:128
Title: Brown Girl, performer: Miller, Myra Barnett, location: Tuckasegee (N.C.) | Jackson County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:16:448
Track List
Title: Brown Girl (continued), performer: Miller, Myra Barnett, location: Tuckasegee (N.C.) | Jackson County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:30:420
Title: When Young Men Go A-Courting, performer: Miller, Myra Barnett, location: Tuckasegee (N.C.) | Jackson County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:58:749
Track List
Title: Lady Isabel and the Elf Knight (Six Fair Maids), performer: Miller, Myra Barnett, location: Tuckasegee (N.C.) | Jackson County (N.C.), running time: 00:04:09:821
Track List
Title: James Harris (The House Carpenter), performer: Miller, Myra Barnett, location: Tuckasegee (N.C.) | Jackson County (N.C.), running time: 00:05:10:839
Track List
Title: GroundHog, performer: Wright, J.T.C., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:54:505
Title: Barbara Allen, performer: Beaker, H.J., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:15:637
Track List
Title: Burglar Man, performer: Beaker, H.J., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:54:219
Title: Don't Let the Girls Worry My Mind, performer: Beaker, H.J., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:51:082
Title: Frankie and Johnny, performer: Beaker, H.J., location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:32:299
Track List
Title: One Morning in May, performer: Miller, Myra Barnett, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:04:01:259
Track List
Title: The Rambling Boy, performer: Miller, Myra Barnett, location: Tuckasegee (N.C.) | Jackson County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:46:603
Title: Hog Drovers, performer: Miller, Myra Barnett, location: Tuckasegee (N.C.) | Jackson County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:49:071
Title: Silk Merchant's Daughter, performer: Miller, Myra Barnett, location: Tuckasegee (N.C.) | Jackson County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:06:086
Title: Zion's Ship (Old Ship of Zion), performer: Miller, Myra Barnett, location: Tuckasegee (N.C.) | Jackson County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:50:425
Title: Tom Dula, performer: Miller, Myra Barnett, location: unknown, running time: 00:01:05:209
Track List
Title: Wife Wrapped Up In Weather's Skin (Dandoo), performer: Proffitt, Frank, location: Sugar Grove (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:28:578
Title: Maid Freed From the Gallows (Hangman), performer: Proffitt, Frank, location: Sugar Grove (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:11:469
Title: Rose Connally, performer: Proffitt, Frank, location: Sugar Grove (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:39:106
Title: Barbara Allen, performer: Proffitt, Frank, location: Sugar Grove (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:03:429
Track List
Title: George Collins, performer: Proffitt, Frank, location: Sugar Grove (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:23:029
Title: Beau Lamkins [accompanied], performer: Proffitt, Frank, location: Sugar Grove (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:54:222
Title: Beau Lamkins [unnaccompanied], performer: Proffitt, Frank, location: Sugar Grove (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:49:644
Title: Gypsie Laddie (Black Jack Davy), performer: Proffitt, Frank, location: Sugar Grove (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:14:286
Track List
Title: Our Goodman, performer: Proffitt, Frank, location: Sugar Grove (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:58:899
Title: Pretty Polly (Wicked Polly), performer: Proffitt, Oliver, location: Sugar Grove (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:55:535
Title: George Collins, performer: Hicks, Nora | Hicks, Nathan, location: Matney (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:29:890
Track List
Title: Barbara Allen, performer: Hicks, Nora | Hicks, Nathan, location: Matney (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:04:12:443
Track List
Title: Jack and the Man in the Chest, performer: Proffitt, Frank, location: Sugar Grove (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:16:099
Title: Pretty Fair Maid, performer: Church, Y.F. (Grandpa), location: Heaton (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:54:355
Title: I Once Loved a Young Man, performer: Trivette, John, location: Heaton (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:14:247
Track List
Title: Advice to Young Ladies, performer: Trivette, John, location: Heaton (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:27:751
Title: Lord Daniel's Wife, performer: Church, Jamie, location: Milam, running time: 00:02:23:512
Track List
Title: Jennie Jenkins, performer: Prather, Nancy, location: Milam, running time: 00:01:46:169
Title: Earl Brand, performer: Prather, Nancy, location: Milam, running time: 00:03:45:374
Track List
Title: Lord Thomas and Fair Annet, performer: Prather, Nancy, location: Milam, running time: 00:03:23:864
Title: Lord Randall, performer: Prather, Nancy, location: Milam, running time: 00:02:19:522
Track List
Title: Little Musgrove and Lady Barnard (Little Matthy Groves), performer: Prather, Nancy, location: Milam, running time: 00:04:01:339
Title: Lonely Tombs, performer: Oliver, Matthew | Lewis, Stella, location: Milam, running time: 00:01:44:842
Track List
Title: Beaulamkin, performer: Prather, Nancy, location: Milam, running time: 00:04:05:758
Title: Pretty Fair Maid, performer: Prather, Nancy, location: Milam, running time: 00:02:28:814
Track List
Title: Gypsie Laddie, performer: Prather, Nancy, location: Milam, running time: 00:01:38:670
Title: Lord Lovel, performer: Bostic, G.L., location: Mooresboro (N.C.) | Cleveland County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:54:781
Title: Riding In a Sleigh, performer: Bostic, G.L., location: Mooresboro (N.C.) | Cleveland County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:45:665
Track List
Title: Billy Grimes, performer: Bostic, G.L., location: Mooresboro (N.C.) | Cleveland County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:28:149
Title: James Harris (Banks of Citorae), performer: Bostic, G.L., location: Mooresboro (N.C.) | Cleveland County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:09:004
Title: Black Eyed Susan (Sweet Willie), performer: Bostic, G.L., location: Mooresboro (N.C.) | Cleveland County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:27:221
Track List
Title: The Brown Girl, performer: Bostic, G.L., location: Mooresboro (N.C.) | Cleveland County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:29:245
Title: Barbara Allen, performer: Bostic, G.L., location: Mooresboro (N.C.) | Cleveland County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:07:544
Track List
Title: Dear Annie, performer: Bostic, G.L., location: Mooresboro (N.C.) | Cleveland County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:01:309
Title: The Rambling Boy, performer: Bostic, G.L., location: Mooresboro (N.C.) | Cleveland County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:20:761
Title: Charles Guiteau, performer: Bostic, G.L., location: Mooresboro (N.C.) | Cleveland County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:05:785
Track List
Title: Charles Guiteau, performer: Bostic, G.L., location: Mooresboro (N.C.) | Cleveland County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:08:848
Title: Nell Cropsey (The Lexington Murder), performer: Bostic, G.L., location: Mooresboro (N.C.) | Cleveland County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:25:683
Track List
Title: Willie and Kate, performer: Bostic, G.L., location: Mooresboro (N.C.) | Cleveland County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:04:969
Title: Mollie Darling, performer: Bostic, G.L., location: Mooresboro (N.C.) | Cleveland County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:30:096
Title: Will You Love Me When I'm Old, performer: Bostic, G.L., location: Mooresboro (N.C.) | Cleveland County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:56:706
Track List
Title: Childhood Days (Sweet Nell), performer: Bostic, G.L., location: Mooresboro (N.C.) | Cleveland County (N.C.), running time: 00:00:51:146
Title: Bring Back My Lover to Me, performer: Bostic, G.L., location: Mooresboro (N.C.) | Cleveland County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:36:437
Title: Meet Me Over There, performer: Bostic, G.L., location: Mooresboro (N.C.) | Cleveland County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:35:443
Track List
Title: The Drunkard's Dream, performer: Church, Minnie, location: Heaton (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:33:176
Title: Pretty Sarah, performer: Trivette, John, location: Heaton (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:03:00:792
Track List
Title: They've Taken My Lord Away, performer: Webb , Pearle, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:54:416
Title: Twelve Days of Christmas (Christmas Song), performer: Watson , Faye, location: Boone (N.C.) | Watauga County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:29:592
Track List
Title: Swapping Song, performer: Watson , Faye, location: Heaton (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:01:23:572
Title: Pretty Little Girl, performer: Church, T.F. (Grandpa), location: Heaton (N.C.) | Avery County (N.C.), running time: 00:02:15:328
The Personal Papers series includes all items gathered by Brown during his career as folklorist and ethnomusicologist; these materials were taken over in 1943 by Dr. Newman Ivey White, who served as first general editor of the project from its inception then until his death in 1948. Brown's personal correspondence relates to his folklore study and is filed alphabetically. It includes an extensive alphabetical index and a chronological card index, both prepared for the editorial project. Correspondents include local folklorists and fellow professors. Other papers include composition books with fragmented transcriptions of folklore findings, a draft of a talk on folklore, photographs of Brown, and some printed material.
The vast folklore collection itself is filed alphabetically by contributor (the person who passed the folklore to Brown, not necessarily the person who knew the "lore" submitted to begin with) and also includes anonymous contributions. These "manuscripts," as Newman White labeled them, are the earliest extant record of the contributions, ranging from scrawled pencil notes on scrap pieces of paper to typescripts made by Brown and others from memory or made for one of his many efforts to publish a portion of the collection at various points in his life. Occasionally such a typescript will hold contributions of more than one person, and in such a case it is filed with one of the contributors, with cross-references. Especially prominent among the contributors is Maude Minish Sutton, a fellow folklorist, who gave Brown the use of her large findings of songs and games, among other contributions, along with her often voluminous notes on these items.
Part of the folklore collection features folders of clippings gathered by Brown, arranged according to Brown's classification scheme, described below. Another portion of this series is the Papers and Articles subseries, which contains auxiliary folklore information gathered throughout Brown's effects by White and arranged in rough alphabetical order. These materials include specialized bibliographies, student papers, and printed items.
Personal correspondence related to folklore study, filed alphabetically.
Drafts of publication include the table of contents, title page, and other materials, for Volume 1 and of the general introduction, as well as other miscellaneous materials. Successive progress reports on the project include the Classification Scheme, where White sets out an extended version of Brown's sixteen-point system of folklore classification by which White organized the folklore contributions. Divisions set out included: husbandry, omens, tokens, luck-signs, folk-medicine, magic, divination, housewifery, folk-sermons, pseudoscience, words, place-names, riddles and sayings, children's sayings, games, customs, legends, ballads, and songs. The series also includes newspaper and magazine reviews, correspondence, financial papers, and administrative materials.
Finally, the series includes a vast collection of folklore typescripts, both original and carbon copies, of each item in the collection, arranged according to the Classification Scheme. These were prepared by White. There are numerous references to African American customs as well as folklore traditions in Europe carried over to the United States.
Includes weather, crop, planting, harvesting, hog-killing, fishing, hunting, stock-raising, wood handling signs and useful facts
Includes shooting stars, animals, finding a pin, mirrors, rain, itching body parts, sweeping, singing, sneezing, sleeping, meeting people, whistling
Includes death, devil, marriage, moon, New Year's, tools, clothes, dream omens
Includes prenatal influences
Includes cures for warts, freckles, rickets, colic, chills, animal bites, indegestion, styes, toothache, pneumonia, mumps, and cuts
Includes cures for headaches, earache, consumption, burns, sore throat, asthma, and cramps
Includes charms to ward off witches, to lift spells
Includes charms to make a person love someone, cure disease, break love-tokens, find lost items and for childbirth and death
Includes dreams, scripture, nature, divining rods, wishes, palms
Includes recipes, raising animals and children and other useful tips
Includes horsehairs becoming snakes, grass that grows where human blood watered it, cures
Includes unusual pronounciations and meanings, peculiar salutations, origins of words, animal calls, figurative expressions
Includes idioms, humorous rhymes, unusual names
Includes proverbs, similes, and adages
Includes holiday, wedding, log-rolling, burial, shooting match, fox-hunting, gander-pulling, cock-fighting, corn-shucking customs
Includes unusual pronounciations
Includes posies and pithy sayings
Includes toys, dances, and party games
Includes dances, toys, and songs
Includes tales about plants, ghosts, witches, curses, treasure, fairies, mountains, rivers, valleys
Includes tales about plants, ghosts, witches, curses, treasure, fairies, mountains, rivers, valleys
Includes songs about domestic relations, feasts
Includes songs about domestic relations, outlaw ballads, the sea, humor, Christian legends, work songs
Includes lullabies, nursery songs, party songs, and love songs
Includes songs about drinking, gambling, humor, politics, catastrophes, murders and executions
Includes war songs, slave songs, religious songs, African-American folk songs
The Associate Editors' Papers have been organized by editor, with H.M. Belden and A.P. Hudson being grouped together. Belden and Hudson's volumes on songs and ballads include editorial drafts for Volumes 1 and 3, as well as early drafts for Volumes 2 and 3. Paul Brewster's subseries includes returned typescripts for games and rhymes. Wayland D. Hand's subseries includes returned typescripts for superstitions. Claire Leighton's subseries includes typescripts for her to reference in creating woodcut illustrations for the volumes. Jan Schinhan's subseries includes lists of scores and songs. Archer Taylor's subseries includes typescripts and drafts for riddles. Stith Thompson's subseries includes typescripts of tales and legends. Bartlett Jere Whiting's subseries includes typescripts for proverbs. George Wilson's subseries includes typescripts of folk speech.
The Charles Bond's Research Material Series stems from the work of Charles Bond, a student of Professor Holger O. Nygard of Duke University. Bond opened the collection in 1970-1971, and prepared both an outline as well as a Tabulation of Unpublished Items in the collection. This series also includes correspondence, an index, and card files.
Indentures, deeds, wills, receipts, a memorandum book, and other papers, mainly dating from 1850-1878 and largely relating to George Hubbard Brown, an attorney from Washington, N.C., and his legal practice, and to his service as associate justice of the North Carolina Supreme Court. There is a small amount of correspondence, among which are letters from John Humphrey Small, U.S. Representative from North Carolina.
The Leslie Brown papers span the years 1936-2016 and undated and cover her entire career as a historian, from her doctoral training to her final position at Williams College. There is also extensive information regarding her professional interest in African-American history and the preparation of oral histories, especially those related to the Behind the Veil project at Duke University's Center for Documentary Studies. The Interviews series includes those conducted privately by Brown as well as those from various institutions that she used in her research. There are typescripts and audiocassettes. The Research/Subject files series focuses on her courses and publications, with a particular focus on Durham, NC, African-American organizations, and well-known individuals. A few research items predate Brown's birth. The Course Materials series contains subject and course files she used in her teaching, with an emphasis on African-American studies and oral histories. The Academia series provides information regarding her preparation as a historian, as well as material related to her job talks and lectures, professional activities, and book projects. The Publications series provides various publications related to African-American history, both privately published and from the popular press.
Leslie Brown did not include physical copies of her correspondence with her papers, and only a limited number of electronic copies. The electronic records contain personal and professional correspondence, some documents and letters related to the Southern Historical Association, and biographical statements.
WordPerfect files; Personal and professional correspondence, some documents and letters related to the Southern Historical Association, biographical statements
WordPerfect and Libre Office files, includes syllabi, assignments, lecture notes, reading lists, and exams for African-American and oral history courses, along with professional correspondence. Some file formats may not be supported.
Includes interviews conducted privately by Leslie Brown, as well as those conducted by others, primarily for institutions, including the Duke University Center for Documentary Studies, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Southern Oral History Program, the Missouri Historical Society, and the North Carolina Center for the Study of Black History at Hayti Heritage Center. Some interviews are marked with Brown's research notes. There are transcripts and audiocassettes.
.tif and Word files, Behind the Veil slides, 2009, and Behind the Veil interviews, 1999-2007
Includes research and subject files for Leslie Brown's classes and publications, with a focus on Durham, N.C., and on African-American organizations and well-known individuals. Includes a few files on oral history projects.
Includes Leslie Brown's subject and course files for teaching, with an emphasis on African-American studies and training in the preparation of oral histories.
Word, WordPerfect, Access, GIF, JPEG, Hypertext Markup, GZIP, Windows Metaflle Image, Vector Markup Language, Plain Text, HTML, Adobe, Powerpoint, .wav, .mvr files, includes syllabi, assignments, lecture notes, reading lists, exams, still images, maps, and other African-American and oral history course-related presentation materials.
Word, WordPerfect, Notepad, Rich Text, .jpeg, Powerpoint, Adobe files, includes syllabi, assignments, lecture notes, reading lists, exams, and still images for African-American and oral history courses, along with Brown's curriculum vita, preliminary exams, thesis notes, press releases, paper and conference proposals, and presentations
WordPerfect and Libre Office files, includes syllabi, assignments, lecture notes, reading lists, and exams for African-American and oral history courses, along with professional correspondence. Some file formats may not be supported.
Includes files related to Leslie Brown's conference attendance, her time as a doctoral candidate (there is a copy of her master's thesis, but not her doctoral thesis), job talks and lectures, tenure files, membership in professional organizations, and book projects.
Word, WordPerfect, Adobe Acrobat, Rich Text, Powerpoint, .wav , .tif, .jpeg files; Projects (especially the teachers domain video review project), presentations, papers, book reviews, journal entries, applications for fellowships and grants, academic works by others, conference materials, curriculum vita, sound files, and still images
by Kate Ellis and Catherine Winter
Word, WordPerfect, Notepad, Rich Text, .jpeg, Powerpoint, Adobe files, includes syllabi, assignments, lecture notes, reading lists, exams, and still images for African-American and oral history courses, along with Brown's curriculum vita, preliminary exams, thesis notes, press releases, paper and conference proposals, and presentations
WordPerfect and Libre Office files, dissertation chapters, notes, drafts, and final copies. Some file formats may not be supported.
Printed materials related to African-American history. Topics include African Americans in the resort community at Saratoga Springs, documenting struggle and resistance through oral histories, communism and race, Black recording artists of the 1920s, the civil rights movement, African-American students at Duke University, the Jim Crow era, race relations, race and the United States government, and segregation. Popular magazines feature material on Michelle and Barack Obama, Thomas Jefferson and Sally Hemings, reparations, racism, and college graduation rates.
WordPerftect, Word files; book proposal; article; Discord Behind the Veil draft, manuscript, and photographs; Common Spaces, Separate Lives manuscript draft
The collection includes letters, journals, scrapbooks, writings, speeches, and printed materials related to the lives of John Emory Bryant (JEB), his wife Emma Spaulding Bryant, their daughter Emma Alice Zeller and her husband Julius Zeller and their descendants, and William Anderson Pledger who was a Republican contemporary of JEB. The bulk of the collection falls into four main divisions: the early years in Maine (1851-1860), during the American-Civil War (1861-1865), during Reconstruction in Georgia and after (1865-1887), and the later years in New York (1888-1900). Some of the materials are not original and are copies or typescripts. Of note are materials regarding Georgian Republican politics; conditions for Radical Republicans and African-Americans during Reconstruction, including correspondence with Henry McNeal Turner; historical views about the differences between the North and the South; Ku Klux Klan activity in Georgia, Florida, and Alabama; and a particularly passionate exchange between Emma Spaulding Bryant and her husband regarding her visits to a doctor about "uterine difficulties." These 10 letters from Emma Bryant have been digitized and are available online at: https://repository.duke.edu/dc/spauldingbryant
The bulk of the letters cover the years before the American Civil War when John Emory Bryant (JEB) and Emma Spaulding were in Maine, during the Civil War when JEB was at Port Royal and Hilton Head, S.C., during Reconstruction in Georgia (1865-1887), and the remaining years in New York (1888-1900). The letters document JEB's life as a soldier, his courtship and relationship with his wife Emma Spaulding, his involvement in the Republican Party, temperance organizations, the Freedman's Bureau, and the Methodist Episcopal Church, as well as his relationships with other politicians such as President Ulysses S. Grant, James Atkins, Governor Rufus Bullock, and Foster Blodgett, including prominent African-American politicians of the time such as Henry McNeal Turner and William Anderson Pledger.
Most of the letters during the Civil War were written between JEB and Emma Spaulding, whom he knew before the war when she was his student at Kent's Hill. The letters describe their courtship, their social lives, and also the conditions during the war. Some of the letters during this period are official orders from officers in the Union Army, including General Rufus Saxton, with whom JEB would continue to work after the war in the Freedman's Bureau.
There are also three volumes from the Confederate Army in Georgia that include official correspondence of the Camps of Instruction for Conscripts in the 7th and 8th Congressional Districts of Georgia and correspondence from the headquarters of Brigadier General Raleigh Edward Colston's Brigade at Fort Bartow, Georgia. It is unclear how these Confederate volumes ended up with Bryant, though it is speculated that they were found by Christopher C. Richardson of the 11th Maine Volunteers who was stationed at Griffin, Georgia, for a short time in 1865. These volumes also include added notes, correspondence, and clippings from John Emory Bryant, Captain Christopher C. Richardson (business partner of Bryant who was later killed by a political opponent), and a Black clerk named G. B. Snowden who worked at Bryant and Richardson's law firm. These volumes cover the years 1863-1868 and include information about the Freedmen's Bureau at Augusta, conditions for Black people in Augusta following the Civil War, and the Republican Club of Augusta. Bryant also pasted in letters from General Rufus Saxton, 1865.
There are a series of letters from Henry McNeal Turner (1834-1915) during April, 1866. Turner was a Black Republican leader, legislator, preacher, and Post Master of Augusta, Georgia. Turner became a bishop in the African Methodist Church, 1880-1892. His letters to Bryant describe his political activity and aspirations. On April 6th, amidst the grave illness of his wife and the death of one of his children, he writes, "Please let me have the last law passed by the Georgia legislature, granting the colored people all the protection given to the white. They claim here that Georgia has granted every right, except voting."
There are several letters throughout the collection that document conditions for Black people in Georgia. While serving picket duty on a plantation in Beaufort, S. C., on September 8th, 1862, Bryant describes attending a prayer meeting, where he heard the sermon and the call and response singing. In one letter written in 1869, African-American minister Charles R. Edwardes introduces the Colored Men of the Mechanics and Laboring Men Association to JEB. Edwardes explains how the organization wanted to help freed people buy land and homes. In 1868, Mr. P. Joiner writes to JEB reporting the shooting of a Black man by White democrats near Albany, Georgia. The White mob then continued on a rampage through the countryside, warning African Americans that it was "their country and they was going to rule it."
Much of the correspondence after the Civil War pertains to JEB's political career, aspirations, and struggles. He was a strong proponent of civil rights for African-American men, a cause that he fought for throughout his life, to the chagrin of many of his political opponents. Over the years he was embroiled in several conflicts, and at least three times charges were brought against him for corruption, charges that were eventually dropped. The letters document the different political cliques that he belonged to and fell out of favor with, his participation in the downfall of Governor Rufus Bullock, the jockeying for governmental jobs, and his attempts and failures to maintain financially viable Republican newspapers.
The correspondence between JEB and his wife Emma Spaulding Bryant documents their personal, professional, and political lives, much of which was spent living apart due to the instability of JEB's employment and the hostile living conditions for Radical Republicans in the South. Emma Bryant describes family life, financial hardship and her efforts to support herself, her interest in painting and drawing, education, and her religious and political beliefs. A particularly difficult moment between Emma and John is captured in Emma's letters from July and August of 1873. These letters shed light on women's health in the 19th century and the relationships between spouses when making medical decisions. The letters recount Emma's activities during that summer when she and her daughter Alice, were visiting relatives in Illinois and Ohio while JEB tended to his political affairs in Georgia. Emma visited a doctor for "uterine difficulties." In response to "insane" and "mad" telegrams sent by her husband, she defends her choice to see a doctor. She describes the treatment that she receives from the doctor, how she wishes to be treated with equality from her husband, and how insulted she is by the accusations of infidelity being sent to her by JEB. On August 7 she describes her husband's behavior and her response, "taunts me with leaving my baby for a few days in care of her Grandma and aunty! Morally raises the lash over me and says 'now will you obey? Will you be my inferior, my obedient child?' To him I answer Never – I will be your true loving wife, your companion and equal in every and the fullest sense – the mother of your children – nothing less and nothing else…" She also writes that she had no choice but to see a male doctor, "His manner of treatment was perfectly delicate and such as all women afflicted with such disease and wishing to recover must receive at the hands of some male physician until there are sufficient educated female physicians to supersede the males." The Bryants soon overcame this dispute. This portion of the Bryants' letters have been digitized and transcribed and can be found here: https://repository.duke.edu/dc/spauldingbryant
Correspondence of JEB and his assistant Volney Spalding. It begins with the campaign of Bryant for Congress in 1876 and his fight with James Atkins. Covers the founding of the Georgia Republican in Atlanta and the fight against the ratification of the new state constitiution in 1877. Refernece is also made to the location of the state capitol at Atlanta and the Homestead Act of 1868.
A record of JEB's business ventures in New York City, as well as a number of letters on the "Southern Problem."
Typed by R.B. Zeller, 1955
Contains copies of official correspondence of the Camps of Instruction for Conscripts in the 8th Congressional District of Georgia. The volume contains details on conscript organization, exemptions, substitutes, health, and personnel. Macon and Decatur, Georgia, contained, respectively, Camps Cooper and Randolph for receiving these troops. Also in this letter book, one year later, JEB began his own letter book for the Freedmen's Bureau at Augusta, where he was serving under General Saxton. The correspondence, largely telegraphic describes conditions for foremerly enslaved Black people who were arriving in Augusta. Also documents JEB's attempt to establish a branch bureau at Hamburg, S.C., under command of Black officers and men from the 33rd U.S. Volunteers.
Letter book of the commandant of conscription in the 7th Congressional District of Georgia, centering in Macon and Griffin, Georgia. In this book JEB pasted the letters of General Rufus Saxton, 1865, and clippings from the Loyal Georgian, 1866.
From the headquarters of Brigadier General Raleigh Edward Colston's Brigade at Fort Bartow, Georgia, where he held a command in the defense of the Savannah River. The correspondence noted is official. JEB's friend and business partner, Captain Christopher C. Richardson of the 12th Maine Volunteers, added to this volume lists of Confederates taking the amnesty oath in 1865 in Brooks, Valdosta, Echols, and Lowndes counties, Georgia. These are followed by memoranda from the law office of Richardson and Bryant in Augusta. A Black clerk who work in the law office named G. B. Snowden kept minutes in this book of the Republican Club of Augusta, Georgia, March 25-September 11, 1868.
Papers relating to John Emory Bryant's roles as lawyer, politician, publisher, and real estate agent. Includes fundraising records for organizations such as the Southern Advance Association, Marietta Street Methodist Episcopal Church in Atlanta, and Grant Memorial University. Also includes an incomplete deposition describing violent and murderous Ku Klux Klan activity in Alabama, Florida, and Georgia during the early 1870s. Named African-American victims of the KKK are: Edward Thompson and his wife in Florida; Boss Fullard, Gamble Wright, and John Askie in Dublin, Georgia; and George Daymond in Montgomery County, Georgia. Leaders and members of the Klan are named as well as their relationships to elected and governmental officials.
Various personal and professional writings, clippings, pamphlets, and speeches created and collected by the Bryants and Zellers. Includes early speeches made by JEB at the Wesleyan Seminary at Kent's Hill, Maine, showing his early thoughts on temperance, slavery, and women. The series also includes writings and clippings pertaining to political conventions (including the Freedmen's convention of Georgia in 1866), historical views of the differences between the North and South that were being shaped during Reconstruction, and JEB's shift in focus from educating Black people to educating the Southern White working-class people. There are also diaries by Emma Spaulding Bryant, scrapbooks by Alice Zeller and her husband Julius Zeller, and a biography written by Alice Zeller about her parents (John and Emma). Some of the materials are not original and are typescripts and photocopies.
Copied by Raymond Bryant Zeller in the 1950s and compiled by Josephine Zeller Megehee in 1982. Includes biography of JEB from "Leslies History of the Republican Party," excerpts from "Maine in the War for the Union," letter from Miriam Zeller Gross to RBZ (her brother), letters written to Gen. O. O. Howard, "Facts concerned with the Ballot for the Negro" as told to John Emory Bryant's daughter, Emma, speeches given at Proceedings of the Freedmans Convention of Georgia, speech at Georgia Convention of Equal Rights, minutes of the Republican Club, letters from letter book (1876), letters to Savannah, Georgia, excerpts from the "History of the State of Georgia."
Copied by Raymond Bryant Zeller in the 1950s
Typed by Raymond Bryant Zeller in the 1950s
Typed by Raymond Bryant Zeller in the 1950s
Chiefly written at the Wesleyan Seminary at Kent's Hill, Maine; the 1864 papers at Buckfield, Maine. Speeches and reports written about various topics including intemperance, slavery, war, patriotism, and the influence of women, perhaps meant to present at debates.
Includes two typed copies of "Proceedings of the Freedmen's Convention of Georgia Assembled at Augusta, January 10th, 1866," handwritten transcript of a speech given to the Georgia Equal Rights Association on January 13, 1866, two typed copies of "Proceeding of the Council of the Georgia Equal Rights Association Assembled at Augusta, Georgia, April 5th, 1866."
Includes two copies of the "Constitution of the State Association of the National Union Association," "The Georgia Educational Movement," signed pledge (perhaps for the Union League of America), speech fragment regarding the governors ability to appoint election managers, and a speech given to the chairman and members of the Republican State Central Committee in which Bryant says that he is resigning from the committee and explains his involvement in politics in Georgia.
Includes meeting minutes, fragment of handwritten copy Georgia constitution of 1868 regarding voting rights, "Resolution calling on Supreme Court for decision on question of eligibility of colored men," "Names of those who pledge to defeat Foster Blodgett in General Assembly, Georgia, 1868," fragment of resolution passed in 1869, list of subscribers for The Southern Advance Association 1885, Republican appointment announcements, and election statistics.
Includes fragment reporting on Democratic convention in which labor laws were discussed. The fragment ends by saying, "Your memoriolist therefore feel warrented in saying that the evident object of the Governor in refusing to organize and arm companies composed of colored men is to enable our former masters the more easily to control our labor." Also includes, "Plan for managing the Macon convention, May 8, 1892," minutes from the Senate Judiciary Committee, Washington, February 12, 1870, regarding Governor Bullock, and "Speech Delivered in McEntire Hall, Savannah, Georgia, August 20th." This speech was given "in reply to charges made against the Honorable John E. Bryant by Honorable T. G. Campbell previous to his nomination to Congress." T.G. Campbell could be Tunis Campbell.
Mainly documents related to Bryant's run for Congress in 1874. Including a document concerning voting laws addressed to JEB, 1872; notification by JEB of contested election for the first congressional district of Georgia, 1874; document supporting Bryant as the nominee for Congress; testimony of Stanley Young, Supervisor of Elections at Waynesboro Georgia; precinct voting statistics; voting demographics for Georgia; fragment describing election fraud.
Includes brief biography of J. G. Clarke, list of speeches given by defenders of slavery, racism, and the Confederacy, report of speech given by Captain William Hughes to the Confederate Survivors' Association, proceeding of the Southern Historical Society at Richmond, Virginia, October 1873, including an address by General Wade Hampton, and the University of Virginia Anniversary Oration of General John S. Preston, Charlottesville, July 1, 1875.
Includes Southern Advance Association appeals for aid, clippings about the Southern Historical Society including ideas about the "two peoples" of the North and the South, clipping about Alexander H. Stephens "Corner Stone" speech in support of slavery and White supremacy, summary of remarks made by Reverend Dr. Palmer about the "lost cause" and the principles for which the Confederacy fought.
Includes miscellaneous notes about Puritans, short essays entitled "God's Providence," "America," "Anxious Thoughts," "The Armada." The essays and notes are written on the back of letter head, some of which is addressed to Rev. Julius Zeller. Also includes "Death of Mrs. Judson."
Includes report of Benjamin H. Hill's speech in Athens, May 8th 1875, meeting notes "of the Committee appointed to consider the Southern questions, as presented by Col. J. E. Bryant," Providence, Rhode Island, 1879, "Laboring Mans Association of Burke County [Georgia]" founding document, "The Southern Advance Association. The South. The Condition. The Cause. The remedy," [1880], "The Anti-Bourbon Movement," [1880], "The Southern Advance Association. It's History," [1880].
Includes day-to-day notes about church attendance, reading, sewing, health and illness, letter writing, missing her husband. There is some mention of drawing and painting.
Includes notes from the Georgia conference November 27th, 1884, clippings about the church and the divisions based on slavery, "Our White Work in Georgia and Alabama" clipping, "Dr. Fuller's position, Atlanta, Georgia, March 23, 1883: Equal Rights to both races. Each race must rise largely by it's own efforts," "Organization of Holston Conference," "Schools among the destitute whites at the South: The schools in North Carolina, our school at Atlanta," notes from a missionary meeting in New York, 1883, resolutions made at the educational convention, June 20th, 1883, list of money raised for schools in southern states, and demographics of black and white members of M.E. church in Georgia.
Includes "Address to the People by a Committee of the National Union League on the Political Situation of the Country," 1883, "The Southern Question: the Conflict between the two civilizations," draft of speech about the "Bourbon element" in the Democratic party, "The Two Civilizations: the conflict between them not ended," "The Education of the Middle Class at the South," description of the National Union Association [1880].
Includes "The South. The Opportunities for Christian Work," [1880], documents supporting the Southern Advance Association, report about the revival work of the Marietta Street Methodist Episcopal Church at Atlanta, Georgia, [1886], presentation to the Woman's Home Missionary Society, Baltimore Conference, on the "Home missionary work among the illiterate and destitute white people at the South," 1886, clipping from the Boston Watchman on "The Intentions of the Southern Bourbon Leaders," 1886.
Includes Southern Advance Association list of subscribers, draft of speech addressing the Republicans of Georgia regarding a defamatory pamphlet targeting Bryant.
Includes "Missionary work among the destitute whites of Atlanta," "Our White work in the Southern States," and other writings and clippings about Bryant's views on white working-class southerners.
Includes "The Southern Problem" and other rebuttals and criticisms of the Southern Historical Society and education in the South
G.A.R. Memorial Day address, Mt. Vernon, N.Y.
Perhaps a draft of a short story written in the 19th century
Includes orders received by Bryant during the Civil War and information regarding the Freedmen's Bureau investigation in 1866
Clippings about Republican politics
Clippings about Republican politics
Clippings, programs, some which document Alice Bryant's involvement with the Young Woman's Christian Temperance Union of Westchester County
Clippings, programs from events and organizations in Athens, Tennessee
Clippings related to social and church activities in Mount Vernon
Mostly newspaper clippings regarding Republican politics from 1863-1906. Includes some original and preservation copies of broadsides. Other original broadsides were removed from the collection and individually cataloged. There are five black and white reproduction copies of photographs of the Bryants as well as a book of photographs of Union Army Officers.
Includes 5 remedies for ailments
Reproductions of five photographs
William Anderson Pledger (1852-1904) was an editor of the Atlanta Blade, teacher, and prominent Black Republican politician. In 1880 Pledger was elected chairman of the Republican state committee in Georgia, the first Black man to serve in that office. He and Bryant worked together and were political allies. The letter press copybook in this series includes faint copies of letters written by Pledger to various Georgian politicians and Republicans including John Emory Bryant, Henry McNeal Turner, E. R. Belcher, Benjamin Conly, Henry Farrow, M.T. Ackerman, and others. Also included in this series is a typescript of the letter press copybook by Raymond Zeller and a scrapbook created by Pledger about Georgian Republican politics and Black leadership and participation.
Two typescript copies created by Raymond Zeller. The typescript is incomplete in many places and includes corrections written in pencil.
The original letter book is difficult to read due to fading, faint ink. The notes written here were gleaned from the typescript made by Raymond Zeller and should be verified in the letter book if possible. Includes letters written to various politicians and Republicans including John Emory Bryant, Henry McNeal Turner, E. R. Belcher, Benjamin Conley, Henry Farrow, M.T. Ackerman, and others. Many of the letters are about seeking employment from Republicans. Pledger states that "The schools of this county being in the hands of the Democrats and they having such an avowed hatred to me till it is become impossible for me to obtain employment" (page 23). He writes recommendation letters and comes to the defense of others. He makes repeated arguments as to why African-Americans should be appointed to government positions. He also mentions threats against him, the Ku Klux Klan, and his unwillingness to abandon his principles and Republican ideals (page 104 and page 145). Some of his letters attend to the business of the Grand Fountain of Georgia (also referred to as the "colored Good Templars") a Black temperance organization. On page 206 he mentions relations between the White and Black templars of Georgia, and a schism between the American and English orders. In a letter to O. P. Morton, Pledger describes injustices faced by African-Americans in Georgia and argues as to why it is important that the Republican party remain in power (pages 157-163). Pledger writes a letter to the editor critiquing plans for emigration to Liberia, "We were born in America, our fore fathers and mothers for generations back are buried here, and when we leave for another land let us leave as men, not chattel..." (page 213).
Mainly clippings about Georgian Republican politics and black leadership and participation. Some of the articles mention Pledger's involvement and opinions.
The collection consists of a diary in four volumes that chronicles the vacation in Great Britain of a young American named John Buck from August 10 to September 25, 1887. The volumes comprise 249 handwritten pages in total, with commercial prints, menus, receipts, and theater playbills attached to the back of selected pages. The script is elaborate, but legible, and the narrative is remarkably descriptive. Humorous sketches illustrate the first volume in particular and the third volume includes three photographs of the author.
Buck began his diary, which he entitled Eight Weeks Vacation and How I spent it, with a detailed account of the people and activities on board the R.M.S. Britannic while on route from New York City to Liverpool, England. Upon landing, he traveled to London, where he spent the majority of his vacation. Although he visited tourist destinations such as London Tower and Winsor Castle, Buck professed little interest in sightseeing and clearly preferred the social life, including attending dinner parties, meeting pretty young women, playing sports such as pool, baseball, and tennis, and above all, attending and discussing the theater. Initially, Buck socialized with an actor he met aboard the Britannic, W. A. Faversham, and the noted basso profundo, Franz Vetta, whom he met in London. From August 30 to September 4, Buck stayed in Edinburgh, Scotland, as the guest of Henry Irving, the famous actor and manager of the Lyceum Theatre. He spent these days in the company of Mr. Irving, Bram Stoker, the actress Ellen Terry, and her son, Teddy Craig. Buck frequently noted Mr. Irving's thoughtfulness and recounted their activities and conversations, including one humorous anecdote about Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show. From September 5 to September 9, Buck stayed with the Duke and Duchess of Beaufort at Badminton House. Buck described the house and grounds, formal dinner parties, informal breakfasts, sporting activities, and sightseeing excursions to Gloucester Cathedral and Raglan Castle. The remainder of the vacation was spent in London, much as it began, visiting acquaintances and going to the theater until September 20 when he departed for Liverpool and the return voyage on the Britannic. Buck ceased recording events mid-Atlantic due to his sudden interest in a female passenger.
Collection includes the political and legal correspondence of Armistead Burt (1802-1883), South Carolina planter and member of U.S. Congress.
The political correspondence deals largely with the policies of John C. Calhoun and the question of secession. After 1860 the material relates chiefly to Burt's law practice, especially to the management of estates of Confederate soldiers, and the Calhoun estate. Other matters referred to include the political corruption and economic conditions in postwar South Carolina. Among the correspondents are Armistead Burt, Pierce M. Butler, Henry Toole Clark, Thomas Green Clemson, T. L. Deveaux, James H. Hammond, A. P. Hayne, Reverdy Johnson, Hugh S. Legare, Augustus B. Longstreet, W. N. Meriwether, James L. Petigru, Francis W. Pickens, Robert Barnwell Rhett, Richard Rush, Waddy Thompson, and Louis T. Wigfall.
Series includes political and legal correspondence mostly related to John C. Calhoun and the secession question. Later correspondence deals with Burt's law practice. Correspondents include: Pierce M. Butler, Henry Toole Clark, Thomas Green Clemson, T. L. Deveaux, James H. Hammond, A. P. Hayne, Reverdy Johnson, Hugh S. Legaré, Augustus B. Longstreet, W. N. Meriwether, james L. Petigru, Francis W. Pickens, Robert Barnwell Rhett, Richard Rush, Waddy Thompson, and Louis T. Wigfall.
Series includes legal papers, mostly related to Burt's law practice, especially the management of estates of Confederate soldiers, and the Calhoun estate.
Financial papers chiefly relate to the management of estates of Confederate soldiers and the Calhoun estate.
Collection consists of a single autograph manuscript letter written by May Byron to Reverend Edwin J. Matthews. Byron's return address is "c/o British Weekly" and Matthews' address is "The Rectory, Calstone, Calne, Wiltshire." Matthews had written to ask Byron, "the one lesson which has been most impressed upon me by my life's experiences." Byron replies, "These experiences have been so wide, so varied, and in several respects so unique that I could not possibly sum up their results in one lesson." Matthews had also asked Byron for a list of her writings, and she replies that she's unable to do so because she's lost track of them. She states that both the British Museum and the Library of Congress had asked her for a similar list, and she was unable to help them, in part because of her use of pseudonyms, and also because of her many years' work as a journalist. She concludes by stating that most all her writings are currently out of print, except for her children's books, "which have been going on selling for some 20 years."
This collection consists largely of photographs, including albums and loose snapshots, documenting Cain's Navy service and travels in the mid-twentieth century, including World War II. The Personal Documents Series contains service record and other administrative or official Navy records and a few pieces of miscellaneous correspondence. The Photographs Series includes images of Cain and his family, as well as photos of his naval service to Japan and China.
Contains naval records, academic transcripts, leave requests, pay documents, and personal records.
Contains performance reviews, list of vessels on which John Cain served and in which capacity, and officer's questionnaire.
Contains a note breaking up with a girlfriend, a telegram, and a couple thank-you notes for wedding gifts.
Various items and keepsakes from his time abroad while in the U.S. Navy.
The loose photographs of John William Cain are sorted into the following categories: personal and family, naval life, and sightseeing. There may be some overlap. There is a small collection of photographs of Japanese flower arrangements, several photo albums, and some loose photo album pages.
Photographs of John William Cain by himself, with family, and with friends.
Photographs from Cain's time spent in the navy. There are photographs of ships he served on, fellow naval officers, and depictions of everyday life in the U.S. Navy.
Photographs of the places in which Cain served.
Two smaller photo albums with images from his early years in the Navy and memorabilia. One large photo album from Cain's service in China.
Photographs that were loose on the first page of the photo album in Box 4.
Personal photographs, postcards, and photographs from early years in the U.S. Navy.
The Cannon Mills Records, a textile manufacturer, span the years 1836-1983, although the bulk occurs during 1887-1983. Files and account books concern the operations of Cannon Manufacturing Company and its successor in 1928, Cannon Mills, its subsidiary and associated textile mills, related business interests, and community involvement. The records include correspondence, volumes, memoranda, statistical compilations, reports, printed material, and financial and legal documents.
In 1898 Cannon Manufacturing Company switched to towel manufacturing, and in later years the product line expanded into blankets. In 1971 sales exceeded $305 million, and the company dominated over 50% of the country's towel business and over 20% of the sheet business.
Important topics include the textile industry, economic conditions related to the textile industry, textile marketing and sales, state and national textile industry associations and public and governmental relations; textile industry consolidation; textile equipment and manufacturers; textile production and costs; an antebellum textile mill; and the Cannon, Patterson, Swink, Odell, Barringer, Johnston, Murdoch, and other families who were owners and managers of one or more of the textile mills.
Topics and materials related to personnel are millworkers (both men and women), child labor (both girls and boys), employee retirement plans, the Textile Workers Union of America, time books, employee injuries, company mercantile stores, and mill houses and villages.
Other business activities involved building construction, architects, and contractors; investment in securities and commodities; advertising; taxation; stock and stockholders (both men and women); corporate directors; insurance; bankruptcy and bad debts; cotton brokers; cotton buying and the cotton market; dividends; banks and banking; mill superintendents' records; real estate; lawsuits, one involving racial discrimination; and estate settlements.
Community relations are evident in records relating to churches, schools, the Y.M.C.A., Freemasons, philanthropy to local organizations, and secondary boarding schools in North Carolina and the inception of agricultural training for boys and home economics for girls. The city of Kannapolis, N.C., in which the main offices of Cannon were located, was a particular focus of company interest.
There are record series for the nine companies that were consolidated in 1928 to form Cannon Mills: Cannon Manufacturing Company, Cabarrus Cotton Mills, Barringer Manufacturing Company, Franklin Cotton Mills, Gibson Manufacturing Company, Kesler Manufacturing Company, Patterson Manufacturing Company, Norcott Mills Company, and Hobarton Manufacturing Company. These mills were all in the western Piedmont of North Carolina.
A number of other mills, owned by or associated with the Cannons or Cannon Mills, had a separate existence in North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia and Alabama. Those mills, represented in this collection by series, include Central Mills, Central, S.C.; Bloomfield Manufacturing Co., Statesville, N.C.; Brown Manufacturing Co., Concord, N.C.; Roberta Manufacturing Co., Cabarrus County, N.C.; Imperial Cotton Mills, Eatonton, Georgia; Social Circle Cotton Mills, Walton County, Georgia, Swink Manufacturing Company, Rowan County, N.C.; Travora Textiles, Graham and Haw River, N.C.; Windemere Knitting Mills, Albemarle, N.C.; and Wiscassett Mills, Albemarle, N.C. Other mills, not represented here by series, were related to the Cannon group, and information about them occasionally appears in the collection. These firms include: Amazon Cotton Mills, Thomasville, N.C.; Durham Hosiery Mills; Efird Manufacturing Co., Albemarle, N.C.; Tuscarora Cotton Mill, Mt. Pleasant, N.C.; Buck Creek Cotton Mills, Siluria, Ala.; and Paola Cotton Mills, Statesville, N.C.
Basic information about these textile mills can be found in the annual volumes of Davidson's Textile Blue Book. The size and products of many of the factories varied over the years.
The huge Cannon corporation also had related business interests and community involvements that are represented by organizations and record series in this collection. They include: Cannon Mills, Inc., the selling agency in New York City; Cannon of West Coast, Inc.; L. T. Barringer and Co., a cotton brokerage firm in Memphis, Tennessee; the Brown-Roberta Foundation, a community philanthropy; J. A. Skipwith and Co., cotton brokers at Concord, N.C.; Klumac Cotton Mills, Salisbury, N.C.; P. M. Morris Real Estate Company, Concord, N.C.; Rowan County Farm Life School; and the Trading and Commission Company, a selling agency and holding company.
The series in this collection represent executives, offices, a department, subsidiary companies, affiliated companies, and related businesses and organizations. The general arrangement of the 47 series is: reference information; members of the Cannon family; executive offices; executives; a department; and numerous companies, businesses, and organizations, these arranged mostly alphabetically.
The surviving files and volumes represent only a small percentage of the original archives. Some parts of the company have considerable papers in this collection, but no series is anywhere near complete. Some series are quite small. Record survival was random, but many important and useful files and account books are available.
Information about particular topics, companies, and individuals is often scattered in a number of series in this collection, and the container list serves as a guide to many of them. It should be remembered that company activities may be reflected by bookkeeping entries in the account books whether or not relevant files are available. Because of the interlocking relationships of the various companies, information about one firm may not be exclusive to its own series.
Reference material including histories, historical articles, biographical sketches of the Cannons, and data on some of the textile mills.
Correspondence, memoranda, legal and financial papers, reports, and volumes centering upon the founder of Cannon Mills. Important files relating to mill operations concern the early years of Buck Creek Cotton Mills at Siluria, Ala., and Cannon's management of Paola Cotton Mills at Statesville, N.C. There is considerable financial data and some correspondence for the New York office. A record book contains early production, cost, labor and other statistics. Overseer Joseph D. Bacon's reminiscences provide a vignette of J. W. Cannon's early years in management. T. C. Thompson, a builder and contractor, was associated with Cannon in Buck Creek Cotton Mills.
Information about J. W. Cannon's finances and personal investments is extensive. It includes his dealing with H. Hentz and Co., J. S. Bache and Co., and the Farmers' Loan and Trust Co. of New York City. Trading in securities and commodities was considerable. There is also some record of other ventures such as real estate and oil production.
Papers relating to Cannon and his family include wills, estate records, and financial documents and accounts. Files for the settlement of the estate of Mrs. Cannon's uncle, Aaron J. Bost, are extensive, and securities investments are itemized.
Correspondence, memoranda, legal and financial papers, reports, and volumes relating to C. A. Cannon, the company's manager from 1921 to 1971. There are notable files for the advertising agencies of Young and Rubicam, N. W. Ayer and Son, and the Market Research Corporation of America. External public relations and industry concerns were expressed through such organizations as the American Cotton Manufacturers Association, American Cotton Manufacturers Institute, National Cotton Council, Textile Committee on Public Relations, and the Committee for a National Trade Policy. Lawsuits between Cannon and the Collector of Internal Revenue and the estate of William A. Stribling, a cotton buying and receiving agent, caused the compilation of considerable information and financial statistics about Cannon Mills and some of its subsidiary and related mills. There are also records from the antebellum Concord Steam Manufacturing Co.; the Odell Manufacturing Co.; Charles Cannon's investments and cash transactions; the securities investments of James W. Cannon and Mary Ella (Bost) Cannon; the estate of Thomas T. Smith, a former secretary of Cannon Manufacturing; the consolidation of 1928; and a lodge of Freemasons at Concord, N.C.
Primarily legal and financial papers of this son and heir of James W. Cannon and Mary Ella (Bost) Cannon including financial correspondence of Mrs. E. T. Cannon. This series contains copies of wills, court documents, and financial reports and letters from the trustees of James W. Cannon's estate, and including information relating to the estate that is not available elsewhere in the collection. Other topics include taxes, a suit against Appalachian Hall, an institution at Asheville specializing in the treatment of nervous disorders, and Davidson Cotton Mills, a Cannon family enterprise.
Insurance agency ledger recording accounts with mills in the Cannon group, other textile mills, non-textile businesses, James W. Cannon, and T. W. Smith.
Files during tenures of successive secretaries J. W. Cannon, Jr., G. B. Lewis, T. T. Smith, Jr., F. J. Haywood, Hearne Swink, J. H. Cannon, and B. T. Beck, concerning mostly the corporation's charter, stock and stockholders. Arranged alphabetically.
Files include annual reports; cloth samples; correspondence; economic stabilization; electric power meter reading cards for rental buildings and houses (includes names of workers); President Don S. Holt and his speeches; merino yarn; the retirement plan; the union election in 1974 lost by the Textile Workers Union of America (communications to and from employees included); the W. T. Grant Company; an investigation of corporate slush funds; a suit involving racial discrimination; and civic projects. Arranged alphabetically.
Audio letter on audiocassette (RL00187-CS-0001) digitized and removed to Box AV001.
Chiefly correspondence and files for organizations that dealt with state and national issues of interest to business. National Cotton Council of American material includes correspondence, memoranda, and kits containing speeches for use on radio and elsewhere about national agricultural, economic, labor, and medical issues. Officials represented in this series include Charles A. Cannon, president; Hearne Swink, secretary and vice president; G. A. Batte, Jr., secretary to Mr. Cannon; Joe C. Ridenhour; and T. C. Haywood. Arranged alphabetically.
These files are considerably more complete than those in the series for 1950. Larger files include: miscellaneous correspondence; several mills in the Cannon group, especially Central and Wiscassett; state and national industry organizations; Ewing-Thomas Corp. of Chester, Pa., and the U.S. government (New York Quartermaster Procurement Agency). many important writers and topics appear in the extensive miscellaneous correspondence files. Cannon, Swink, Ridenhour, Batte, and Haywood continue to be principals in the correspondence. Arranged alphabetically.
Primarily files for officials, departments, and plants within the company, including extensive sales reports from several regions in the country. Arranged alphabetically.
Primarily files A-M including correspondence with officials, sales data, business with textile mills and related companies, and national and state industry organizations. Officials represented include President Cannon and Vice Presidents Batte, J. H. Cannon, and Harold P. Hornaday. Arranged alphabetically.
Includes files A-C and L-Z that are somewhat more extensive than the records for 1950, 1952, 1970, and 1971. Concerns various aspects of production and sales, Wiscassett Mills, dealings with state and national industry and governmental organizations, especially the American Textile Manufacturers Institute and the North Carolina Textile Manufacturers Association. Numerous officials are represented in the correspondence including President and Chairman Hornaday, Vice Chairman and Treasurer Batte, Vice Presidents Adams, Jenkins, and Spence, Secretary Beck, Don S. Holt, Joe C. Ridenhour, and others. Arranged alphabetically.
Chiefly minutes of the Board of Directors' Audit Committee and Hornaday's expense reports and speeches. During this period he served as vice president, president, and chairman of the Board of Directors. Arranged alphabetically.
Files of this long-time official concerning advertising, ceiling prices, and the Laboratory Department. Includes some correspondence. Arranged alphabetically.
Correspondence and statistical compilations relating to labor, production, and marketing. Swink was vice president and secretary of the company.
Correspondence principally among Charles A. Cannon, other officials of the company, and the Cotton Department concerning government regulation and the supply, marketing, acquisition, and utilization of cotton. Also cotton invoices for Franklin Cotton Mills, bills and lading, and account books. Files arranged alphabetically and volumes shelved numerically.
Files and account books of the mother company and of the consolidated corporation beginning in 1928 including the factories at both Concord and Kannapolis (operating 30,000 and 125,000 spindles, respectively, in 1916). Includes minute books; stock records; files recording how the company implemented the state's early child labor laws (both boys and girls); superintendent's records; time books mostly from the Weave Room, Plant No. 1, arranged by the names of overseers and other supervisory personnel; financial statements and inventories; registers of employee injuries; geographical distribution of orders and billings; ledgers; journals; trial balances; cashbooks; bank ledgers; and miscellaneous files and account book for purchases, production, sales, construction, employees, and equipment. Files arranged alphabetically and volumes shelved numerically.
Primarily minutes of meetings of the stockholders and the directors of Cannon's selling agency in New York City after its incorporation in 1920. There are also scattered financial papers. Earlier files relating to the New York office are available elsewhere in the collection. Arranged alphabetically.
Scattered financial and production records and account books of the factory and also accounts of the company's general store that include business with millworkers. Purchased by the Cannons and operated as Cannon and Company until 1916 when the plant became a division of Cannon Manufacturing Company. The plant manufactured towels and had 14,676 spindles in 1927. It was part of Central Mills, ca. 1945-1957. Files arranged alphabetically and volumes shelved numerically. 166 Cannon of West Coast, Inc., Series, 1976. Minutes of the Board of Directors concerning Cannon Mills' retirement plan and trust fund. The function of this corporation remains unclear.
Minutes of meetings of stockholders and directors and miscellaneous insurance and stock purchase records of this wholly owned subsidiary in Central, S.C. Cannon Mills purchased the factory in 1935 and operated it until dissolution in 1957. The factory produced print cloths and had 25,680 spindles in 1936. The plant at York, S.C., continued to function. Arranged alphabetically.
Charter and bylaws, minute books, gold bonds, stock ledgers, stock certificate books, and scattered correspondence, financial statements, stock holder proxies, and historical and biographical information. James W. Cannon and the Rev. Paul Barringer, each a one- third owner, established the mill in 1907. It became Cannon Mills Plant No. 11 in 1928. In 1927 the factory had 13,964 spindles that produced yarn, beams, balls, tubes, and skeins. Arranged alphabetically.
Minutes of the meetings of the stockholders and directors and scattered correspondence and financial statements of a major cotton brokerage house at Memphis, Tennessee, doing both domestic and foreign business. Lewis T. Barringer of the North Carolina Barringer family founded the firm. It merged into Cannon Mills in 1983. Arranged alphabetically.
Ledgers, invoice book, and miscellaneous financial records of this cotton mill at Statesville, N.C., established in 1903 and owned by Cannon Mills during ca. 1928-1935. In 1930 the mill had 6,944 spindles and produced combed peeler, ball warps, and cones. Files arranged alphabetically and volumes shelved numerically.
Stock records of this textile mill at Concord, N.C., founded in 1905, operated for many years by the Johnston family, and owned by Cannon Mills from 1956 until closure in ca. 1970-1971. The factory had 15,216 spindles producing outings, shirtings, and interlinings in 1953. Arranged alphabetically.
Chiefly bank records of this organization at Concord, N.C., that contributed funds, usually less than $500, to schools, social groups, health organizations, charities, and especially to churches. Related to the Johnston textile interests until the Cannons assumed control in the 1950s. Arranged alphabetically.
Stock certificate book and minute books of the stockholders and directors of this hosiery yearn manufacturer in Cabarrus County. The Cannons acquired control from the Johnston family in 1956 and operated the mill until its liquidation in 1978. Never a large mill, Roberta had 6,054 spindles in both 1929 and 1950. Arranged alphabetically.
Extensive but incomplete account books including stock records, ledgers, journals, trial balances, financial statements, bank ledgers, cash records, notes payable and receivable, and miscellaneous volumes and files concerning the charter, employees, and finances. The Cannons were among the founders of the company. There were plants at Kannapolis and Concord that became Cannon Mills' Plants No. 4 and No. 5 respectively in 1928. The Concord factory produced sheeting with 28,016 spindles in 1927, and the facility at Kannapolis had 80,000 spindles making combed yarns, sheetings, and fabrics. Files arranged alphabetically and volumes shelved numerically.
Minute books of stockholders and directors and considerable financial information and scattered records for payroll, production, sales, tenants, consolidation with Cannon Mills, and construction. The account books are ledgers, journals, and cashbooks. James W. Cannon and his sons founded the mill in 1906. The factory, operator of 25,500 spindles in 1927 producing warp yarns, became Cannon Mills' Plant No. 9 in 1928. Files arranged alphabetically and volumes shelved numerically.
Chiefly minute books of the stockholders and directors, stock certificate books, and stock ledger of this mill founded at Concord, N.C., in 1899. The Cannons and the Southern Power Company were early minority stockholders. The factory became Cannon Mills' Plant No. 6 in 1928. Gibson had 31,396 spindles in 1927 that manufactured colored yarns, fancy ginghams, dress goods, etc. Arranged alphabetically.
Minutes of meetings of stockholders and directors and stock records of this textile mill established at Concord, N.C., in 1923 by Charles A. Cannon and others. In 1925 the factory had 112 narrow looms, employed 100 persons and produced fine ginghams and fancy dress goods. Hobarton was consolidated in 1928 with Gibson Manufacturing Company to become Cannon Mills' Plant No. 6. Arranged alphabetically.
Extensive, but incomplete, account books including ledgers; journals; trial balances; balances of income, expense, and accounts receivable accounts; bank ledgers; and cash records. Several files contain minutes and legal, financial, and stockholder information. Imperial, established by James W. Cannon in 1909 at Eatonton, Georgia, was not part of the consolidation in 1928 and continued as an affiliate of Cannon Mills until closure in 1976. The factory had 16,208 spindles producing sheetings in 1971. Files arranged alphabetically and volumes shelved numerically.
Order ledger and journal (including invoice register for yarn) for this firm of cotton brokers at Concord, N.C. Skipwith served as buying and receiving agent for Cabarrus Cotton Mills, Patterson Manufacturing Co., Cannon Manufacturing Co., Kesler Manufacturing Co., Wiscassett Mills, Gibson Manufacturing Co., Tuscarora Cotton Mill, Durham Hosiery Mill, Franklin Cotton Mill, Imperial Cotton Mill, Buck Creek Cotton Mills, and Amazon Cotton Mills. Volumes shelved numerically.
Stockholder records, charter and bylaws, minutes, scattered correspondence and financial papers of this textile mill founded at Salisbury, N.C., in 1895. Rare and unusual access to the operations of a textile factory is provided by the diary of Superintendent John C. Mason who managed Kesler. The Cannons and the Rev. Francis Johnstone Murdoch became stockholders and executives. In 1925 the mill had 27,456 spindles and produced sheetings. During the consolidation of 1928 Kesler became Cannon Mills' Plant No. 7. Arranged alphabetically.
Customer files, lawsuits, correspondence, financial statements, sales invoices, and weekly production and sales reports of this factory at Salisbury, N.C., that produced damask and rayon bedspreads. Klumac sold its goods through Cannon Mills in New York City, and Cannon also assisted with finishing work in North Carolina. Klumac had economic difficulties in the mid-1930s, went into receivership, and did not operate for several years. Cannon sued Klumac in 1934. The records document the Cannon-Klumac relationship and its difficulties. Arranged alphabetically.
Minutes, stock certificate books, and stock ledger of this textile mill established at Concord, N.C., in 1915. C. W. Johnston managed the company for many years until the Cannons acquired control in the 1920s. The factory had 12,096 spindles and produced singled ply ball and chain yarns in 1927. It became Cannon Mills' Plant No. 10 in the consolidation of 1928.
Minutes, correspondence, financial papers, cashbooks, and rent books by this firm at Concord, N.C., owned and managed in part by J. W. Cannon and other officers of Cannon Mills. Rentals and management of buildings for businesses, including the St. Cloud Hotel at Concord, are prominent in the records. Files arranged alphabetically and volumes shelved numerically.
Files include minutes, financial statements, inventories of goods and assets, stock records, sales, superintendent's reports, invoices, and records of the company store and an insurance agency. Account books include ledgers, financial statements and inventories, stockholder records, statements of costs and superintendent's reports, cashbooks, early time books, production statistics, cotton records, and sales. patterson was one of the earlier components of the Cannon textile empire. James W. Cannon and J. Frank Patterson established the factory at China Grove, Rowan Co., N.C., in 1893. The mill, operator of 11,056 spindles producing sheeting and yarns, became Cannon Mills Plant No. 8 in the consolidation of 1928. Records of the Patterson Store Company, a general store, contain the names and accounts of many millworkers. Extensive invoices and checkbook stubs provide a rare sample of the nuts and bolts operation of a textile mill during its early years as well as filling some bookkeeping gaps. Files arranged alphabetically and volumes shelved numerically.
Correspondence, financial papers, and construction and equipment records, and also some material relating to students, trustees, and state requirements. Officers of Patterson Manufacturing Co. were associated with this school, an early public high school and boarding school designed to teach agriculture and domestic science as well as academic subjects to boys and girls. Includes information on other farm life schools in the state. Charlotte architect Charles C. Hook designed at least two buildings. Arranged alphabetically.
Chiefly minute books, ledgers, general journals, trial balances, bank ledgers, cash receipts journals, cash disbursements journals, sheeting shipments, credit memorandums, and accounts receivable cashbook of this textile mill established at Social Circle, Walton Co., Ga., in 1913. Cannon interests had acquired the mill by 1915, and they operated it until merger with Cannon Mills and liquidation in 1983. There were 15,264 spindles producing wide sheetings in 1957. Files arranged alphabetically and volumes shelved numerically.
Account books, clippings, cotton contracts, correspondence, financial papers, legal papers, and payroll and tax lists concern the management of the property, farm lands, and buildings in Rowan Co., N.C., of this textile mill incorporated in 1923 by William Joshua Swink and Charles A. Cannon but never built. Swink Manufacturing was dissolved in 1931, and the partnership of Cannon and Swink took over its assets. Checkbook stubs record laborers' wages as well as other financial matters. Files arranged alphabetically and volumes shelved numerically.
Chiefly financial and legal papers of this selling agency and holding company that the Cannons incorporated in 1916, operated mostly in 1916-1917, and continued until liquidation in 1942. Files arranged alphabetically and volume shelved numerically.
Minute book of stockholders and directors of this company that operated plants at Graham and Haw River, N.C. The Cannons were associated with this mill after its incorporation in 1949, owned it by the 1960s, and operated it until liquidation in 1967. In 1962 Plant No. 1 at Graham had 3,456 spindles, and Plant No. 2 at Haw River had 9,476 spindles. The company manufactured glove flannels and suitings.
Chiefly the minute book of the stockholders and directors and the bylaws of this hosiery factory established at Albemarle, N.C., in 1899 by James W. Cannon and others. The company became part of Wiscassett Mills at Albemarle in 1903.
Charter, bylaws, and scattered information about finances, stock, and managers of this textile mill founded at Albemarle, N.C., in 1898 by J. W. Cannon and David F. Cannon. The factory had 92,208 spindles in 1957 that produced combed single and ply knitting and weaving years. It was still operating in 1988. Arranged alphabetically.
Seven account books that have not yet been identified with a particular company record bank accounts, sales, and employee wages and hours. Volumes shelved numerically.
Collection comprises a phrenological profile (9 leaves, bound with a clip) John Capen prepared for Lydia Mather, touching on her constitution, temperament, character and her social preferences. He notes that she is in "danger of overworking" and has a strong domestic tendency; is cautious and sensitive, but not demonstrative; and has a good intellect, which is balanced by prudence and practicality that would make her an excellent businesswoman, if her life demanded it. He adds that she is conservative but not a bigot, has an excellent ear for music, and avoids attracting attention at all costs. The back of the cover holds an advertisement for Capen's business.
Collection comprises material documenting John D. Cappelmann's numerous activities. Includes advertisements, church bulletins, invitations, tickets, and programs for balls, orations, literary society meetings, concerts, dances, baccalaureate exercises, recitals, and bicycle races. In addition, there are notices for events and general orders concerning the German Artillery, as well as information on other Confederate memorial events. There are also drafts of legislation for the General Assembly; copies of Charleston City Council minutes, local election campaign materials, bank organizing documents, as well as annual reports and other records regarding the Carolina Mutual Insurance Company, Parker Cotton Mills Company, and the Georgia State Building & Loan Association of Savannah. Charleston organizations represented include the Star Gospel Mission, and The Knights of Pythias; other organizations represented include the YMCA and the German University League. Topics of interest include the peace movement during World War I; the anti-German and anti-German American sentiment of the period; Lutheranism in the early twentieth-century South, especially regarding the Sunday School movement. The collection contains only a few personal letters written to Cappelmann; the majority of letters to him contain solicitations for monetary support, mostly to benefit various local and national Lutheran entities. A few items reference Cappelmann's children, John D., F. William, E. Henry, and Gertrude. Contains several items published in German, as well as a folder of biographical information. Only a few items postdate Cappelmann's death, and their immediate connection to the collection is unclear. Undated materials are housed in box 2.
Materials include newspapers, artwork, clippings, U.S. military publications aimed at camp residents, camp notes, reports, and photographs from a variety of sources. Newspapers are one of the largest formats within the collection, which includes the complete run of éxodo, a newspaper with color issues printed from November 1994-September 1995 from Camps Kilo and Charlie Village in the Guantánamo Bay camps; issues of El Bravo, El Balsero, and El Futuro from 1994-1995; Sa K'pase, N'ap Boule, and Qué Pasa, newspapers printed by the U.S. military in Creole and Spanish and designed for Haitian and Cuban refugees at the camps; as well as newspaper clippings and some magazine issues covering the refugee crisis of 1994-1995 and the plight of Caribbean refugees in general.
Photographs are another significant component of the collection. U.S. Coast Guard photographs and slides of rafters and rescuers date from 1980 to the 1990s or 2000s, and are accompanied by photocopies from the U.S. Coast Guard's Historian Office detailing refugees assistance as early as 1959. The collection also includes unsorted and largely unlabeled photographs from the camps; those that are labeled date from 1994.
Other materials in the collection include some refugee artwork, publications about Cuba, a folder of Cuba information including some materials on Elián González, and other ephemera mentioning Cuban refugees. In addition, 8 CDs with photographs and other materials have been transferred to Duke's ERM server and are in the custody of the Electronic Records archivist.
Cuban newspaper from Guantánamo camps. Donated by Mariela Ferrer Jewett.
Includes issues 44a, 45a, 46a, 65a, 68a, 80a, 86a, and 119. This is a newspaper in Spanish and English published by the U.S. military for circulation to Cubans detained at Guantánamo, 1994-1995. Donated by Holly Ackerman, Elizabeth Campisi, and Mariela Ferrer Jewett.
One oversize poster from the Dominican Republic has been removed to an oversize folder.
Includes special section of El Nuevo Herald, Odisea por la libertad.
Contains issues 11 and 13. This is a camp newspaper prepared by Cuban rafters detained at Guantánamo. Donated by Elizabeth Campisi.
There are two complete sets of the total run (5 editions) of this paper prepared by Cuban rafters in Camp Bravo at Guantánamo, as well as 1 sheet of handwritten letterhead paper; 1 sheet of paper with Christmas Greetings; and 1 sheet of paper with the editorial staff of El Bravo. Donated by Mariela Ferrer Jewett.
Contains issues 26, 27, 29, 30. This newspaper began after Sa K'pase ended. Written in Kreyòl with English translation.
Contains issues 1-15, 17, 19-22, 24, 26-28, 30, 31, 33, 34, 35, 37, 38, 39, 41, 42, 44, 53-56. This is a camp newspaper produced for Haitians detained at Guantánamo. It was published by the U.S. Army Military Information Support Team (MIST) led by Dr. Stephen Brown, a military intelligence analyst specializing in Haiti. It is written in Kreyòl with some editions containing an insert in English giving English translation of the Kreyòl articles. Donated by Stephen Brown.
Donated by Stephen Brown, U.S. Army, who was editor of Sa K'pase.
Tercer Aniversario/Puente Mariel-Key West, 1983; Mariel Injustice, 1987; Mariel, 2003; Mariel 25 Years Later, 2005.
Contains issues 263, 265, 266, 267, and 269.
Donated by Stephen Brown, U.S. Army.
Includes monuments in Lampedusa, Italy, and Miami, Florida.
Donated by Mariela Ferrer Jewett.
Donated by Mariela Ferrer Jewett.
Donated by Lourdes Zayas-Bazán.
Includes Operation Uphold Democracy oral history transcripts and reports; a report from Florida Rural Legal Services about Haitian children repatriation; and a Miami Herald publication on Haitian children.
Collection primarily comprises a photograph album, entitled "The Occupation of Japan: Nagasaki, Isahaya, Kumamoto, Sasebo," Edmund J. Catrow maintained during his service in the marines from 1945-1946. There are 277 black-and-white photographs, mostly 3 1/4 x 4 1/2 inches, plus five Japanese newspapers and several other clippings. Many of the photographs have handwritten captions in white ink. The photograph album begins with the embarkation of the 2nd Marine Division at Garapan Harbor in Saipan and continues with images of the convoy en route. Arriving in Nagasaki, Catrow found abandoned and destroyed Japanese ships and the skeletal remains of the Mitsubishi factory in the harbor. The photos from Nagasaki itself show the destruction of the atomic bomb, and document street scenes and some of the few remaining buildings, such as the train station. There are also several pictures of the Isahaya airfield, including a number of Japanese airplanes.
After Nagasaki, Catrow moved to Kumamoto, where he was assigned to a Military Police company. His photos include pictures of Japanese soldiers still in uniform, numerous images of post-war life in Japan and military life at the barracks and in town for the American occupation forces, and well as a number shots of military duties and activities. During this time, Catrow apparently provided photos for the local newspaper, the Kumamoto Nichinichi Shimsun; five newspapers containing his work are tipped into the rear of this album, which also contains a picture of Catrow in front of the newspaper office. A translation of one of the articles states that, "Catro-San... keeps a sharp eye on the city as he patrols on his jeep, but he casts another 'cultural eye' on what happens around him." After a weekend leave at Mt. Aso, which is documented in twelve photographs, Catrow left Kumamoto for Sasebo, where he was due to embark for the United States. The images there concentrate on the harbor and several Japanese and American vessels. The rest of the album is devoted to the voyage home to San Diego, including an organized wrestling match and the celebration of Christmas aboard the ship. Catrow's arrival in California is well documented, and the final images of the album are at Camp Pendleton, where he stayed while awaiting his discharge. Laid-in at the back of the album were newspaper clippings and one magazine clipping, dating between 1967 and 1972 and undated, on topics related to Saipan, all presumably added by Catrow. Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts.
The records of the documentary project "Indivisible: Stories of American Community" span the dates 1988-2002, with the bulk of the collection dating from 1999 to 2002, the primary timeframe for the project. Through documentary photographs and oral histories, project records, videos, and other materials, the collection documents the social conditions in twelve American communities as well as the history of the project, which explored civil activism, struggle, and change in the following locations: the North Pacific Coast of Alaska; Ithaca, N.Y.; San Francisco, California; Navajo Nation, Arizona and New Mexico; Eau Claire, South Carolina; Delray Beach, Florida; Western North Carolina; Stony Brook, N.Y.; San Juan, Texas; Chicago, Illinois; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and the Yaak Valley, Montana. Each project is fully described in its entry in this collection guide. The project co-directors were Tom Rankin of the Center for Documentary Studies and Trudy Wilner Stack of the Center for Creative Photography. The project was also supported by the Pew Charitable Trusts, the NEA, and other agencies.
The photographs in this collection, most of which formed part of a traveling exhibit, were taken chiefly during 1999 by twelve well-known documentary and landscape photographers working in partnership with project oral history interviewers. The photographers are Dawoud Bey, Bill Burke, Debbie Fleming Caffery, Lucy Capehart, Lynn Davis, Terry Evans, Lauren Greenfield, Joan Liftin, Reagan Louie, Danny Lyon, Sylvia Plachy, and Eli Reed. Their images capture the experiences of individuals participating in grassroots initiatives addressing American social issues such as housing, immigration (in particular, Haitians in Florida), the natural environment, race relations, youth empowerment, and economic and cultural development, and others.
Also preserved in this collection are detailed oral histories recorded in each community, with audio recordings and transcriptions; information on the traveling exhibit; and materials on other project outcomes, including a hardbound large-format book of the images, a postcard exhibit, a guide for educators, booklets and other publications on community organizing, and radio and television programs. Other files document the establishment of research archives based on the documentary project's output, at Duke, in Arizona, and in each of the twelve communities.
The collection is arranged into three series: Audiovisual Resources, Photographs, and Project Files. Audiovisual Resources houses the interview tapes as well as other media associated with the project; Photographs includes photographic prints, most of which accompanied the project book and exhibition; Project Files houses the interview records as well as tape lists, logs, and transcripts in both paper and digital formats. Additional supporting materials found in the Project Files Series include postcards and videocassette tapes from exhibits; a CD-ROM of the 2001 website; field notes in paper and digital format; and other office files generated by the project and its staff, including Tom Rankin, one of the project co-directors.
Acquired as part of the Archives for Documentary Arts at Duke University.
The Interviews and Related Audiovisual Resources series includes Interview Recordings, primarily oral history recordings on standard audiocassettes and digital audio tapes, and Associated Media, which contains VHS videocassettes promoting Indivisible. Electronic transcripts for many of the oral histories are available. Contact the Rubenstein Library for further information.
Fifty-eight standard audiocassettes documenting a collaborative project led by the Alaska Marine Conservation Council, to protect and restore marine habitat.
Thirty-one digital audio tapes documenting the community investment and social change programs led by Alternatives Federal Credit Union.
Seventeen digital audio tapes documenting CHALK's Youthline, a teen-staffed hotline and confidential peer mediation service.
Fourteen digital audio tapes created under the supervision of Jack Loeffler, to document the Diné bí' íína', meaning "Navajo lifeways."
Twenty-two digital audio tapes documenting the Eau Claire Community of Shalom, an interracial, cross-denominational network concerned with revitalizing Eau Claire's historic neighborhoods and communities.
Fourteen digital audio tapes documenting the Haitian community in Delray Beach, Florida.
Seventeen digital audio tapes documenting a revitalization project in Marshall, North Carolina.
Nine digital audio tapes documenting the training of doulas in Suffolk County, New York.
Twenty-seven digital audio tapes documenting the work of Proyecto Azteca in providing housing for low-income Mexican American migrant workers.
Eight digital audio tapes documenting the efforts of Chicago youth to improve access to quality education and youth development programs.
Twelve digital audio tapes produced by the Talking Cloth project, in which nine teenagers document the creation of a community quilt.
Thirty-six audiocassettes documenting a collaborative project of the Yaak Valley Forest Community and the Troy School District in Yaak Valley, Montana, on ecological diversity and forest protection.
Prints in various sizes, chiefly in black and white, taken by documentary photographers in project locations: Alaska, Arizona, California, Florida, Illinois, Montana, New Mexico, New York, and Wisconsin. All captions and contextual notes have been taken from the original source. Unless otherwise noted, images were also published in the volume, Indivisible: Stories of American Community, and formed the traveling exhibit by the same name. Each print is prefaced by a unique identification number assigned by the photographers. Arranged in subseries alphabetically by photographer's last name.
Seventeen black and white gelatin silver prints of community organizations and individuals in Chicago, Illinois, with the chief focus on members of the Southwest Youth Collaborative, an effort on the part of faith-based institutions, social service centers, recreational centers, and neighborhood organizations to empower youth and their community in South Chicago neighborhoods.
(2 prints)
(5 prints)
(2 prints)
Thirty-one 8x10 and 16x20 black-and-white gelatin silver prints of individuals involved with the Alternatives Credit Union in Ithaca, N.Y. The Credit Union's policies and programs are focused on supporting community-based economic development through access to loans, mortgages, and other financial services for high-risk or low income clients.
Not in traveling exhibition.
Not in traveling exhibition.
Not in book or traveling exhibition.
Not in book.
Not in traveling exhibition.
Not in book.
Twenty-one 20x24" black-and-white gelatin silver prints of communities and individuals in the western North Carolina mountains involved with "Handmade in America," a cooperative of craftsmen and craftswomen designed to promote self-suffiency and locally-based economic development.
Sixteen chromogenic prints of Native American individuals and their historic-breed animals, in their Navajo Nation communities in New Mexico and Arizona.
Twenty-one 11x14" toned black and white silver gelatin prints of Alaskan landscapes and fishing communities, documenting change and struggle in the community members' lives.
(3 prints)
(3 prints)
Not in in book or traveling exhibition.
Not in traveling exhibition.
Not in traveling exhibition.
Not in traveling exhibition.
Not in traveling exhibition.
Not in traveling exhibition.
Not in traveling exhibition.
Not in traveling exhibition.
Not in traveling exhibition.
Not in traveling exhibition.
Nineteen 16x20, 20x24, and 24x24" chromogenic prints of Yaak Valley, Montana landscapes, and loggers and other individuals, documenting change and social and environmental concerns in their communities.
Not in book.
Not in book or traveling exhibition.
Not in book.
Not in traveling exhibition.
Not in book.
(2 prints)
(2 prints)
Twenty-six 13x20 and 16x20" Cibachrome prints of individuals in the San Francisco neighborhood of Bayview/Hunter's Point. Many of the young people in these portraits are Youthline "listeners," who support a social network and gateway to youth services for teens in the area.
She does a pop dance routine outside her apartment with her "sister" Jessica Ramos and her friend Michelle Lawrence as her grandmother and aunt watch them from the window. Karen was raised by her grandmother (who speaks no English) and her father, after her mother abandoned her as a child to return to her native El Salvador.
There is a constant activity of drug transactions outside the window of Ayana and Asante's impeccably clean apartment in Bayview-Hunters Point. Ayana and her friend joke about the boys who sell "copa," the name of a hair gel product the girls use as a code word for crack. Bay View is the poorest neighborhood in San Francisco and Mamie Matthews has always been very active in the community. The drug dealers know Mamie and her family and, out of respect, do not loiter directly in front of her building.
She does her mother's hair in their apartment in Bayview-Hunters Point as the family prepares for church on Sunday. Asante's mother Mamie has seven children of her own and four foster children. Ayana and Asante help their mother care for the children but will be leaving for college in Atlanta in the fall. They are the first in their large family to attend a four-year college. Enter scope/content note.
Not in book or traveling exhibition.
Not in book or traveling exhibition.
Rosa says she always cries when Josh leaves. He is an only child and she a single mother so they both await with trepidation his imminent departure for the University of Wisconsin where he has received a full scholarship and will be the only African American student in his program.
Not in book or traveling exhibition.
She has been admitted to the University of California at Santa Barbara on a scholarship and will be the first person in her family to atten a four-year college.
Not in book.
She was one of the leaders of the successful U.C. Berkeley protests on the same issue for which students had hunger strikes and mounted tent cities.
Many listeners socialize together and two of them who are leaving for college wanted a picture of their Youthline friends to bring with them.
Every caller remains anonymous but gets asked a standard set of informational questions during the course of their call.
She goes to the piercing studio planning on a tongue-pierce but after being told that her tongue is the wrong shape, ends up getting a brow pierce like her sister instead. Enter scope/content note.
The Youthline listeners say that many of the support calls they get are about relationships.
They listen as girls describe times in their life during which they were scared. Ayana describes a time when she and Asante were attacked in their car at a stoplight. One girl describes having a baby as a teenager. Another girl is afraid of kids at school with guns. Another reveals her fear that there is a contract on her life.Enter scope/content note.
Not in book.
Aya, an aspiring actress, gets ready for school, looking for books and other necessities under piles of clothes and teenage artifacts.
Eighteen 16x20" black-and-white gelatin silver prints of African Americans and Haitian Americans and their communities in Delray Beach, Florida. They are involved with several volunteer organizations to provide community policing, assist immigrants, and promote cultural understanding.
Not in book.
Not in traveling exhibition.
Not in traveling exhibition.
Not in book or traveling exhibition.
Not in traveling exhibition.
Sixteen 20x24 and 30x38 chromogenic prints of individuals in north Philadelphia involved with the Village of Arts and Humanities, a community effort focused on reclaiming declining neighborhoods through educational programs, the arts, and community-based social services.
Not in book.
Not in traveling exhibition.
Twenty 11x14 and 16x20" Cibachrome and black-and-white gelatin silver prints of Texan farmworkers and their communities near the Mexican border. Founded by the Farmworker's Union in 1991 to provide decent and affordable housing for farmworkers and their families, Proyecto Azteca benefits these community members, who also volunteer for building projects.
In 1847 Congressman Abraham Lincoln declared that "the spot" was not, nor never had been part of Texas or the United States, and therefore could not justify an invasion of Mexico. This unpopular sentiment ruined his political career for the next decade.
Not in book.
Not in book or traveling exhibition.
Not in book.
Not in traveling exhibition.
Not in traveling exhibition.
The horizon shows the Rio Grande River, established as the border with Mexico after the War of 1848.
Fourteen 16x20 and 20x24" gelatin silver prints documenting the training and work of community doulas and midwives in Ithaca, N.Y., and the families who benefit from their support before, during, and after childbirth.
Eighteen 16x20" framed gelatin silver prints of community volunteers and their friends in Eau Claire, South Carolina.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains a document file.
Contains document files.
Contains a document file.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
The collection includes a Census 2000 advertising binder, several informational and promotional posters, a partnership informational kit, and two special reports. There are also two VHS tapes with advertisements from the Census 2000 campaign. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising, & Marketing History.
The collection includes a Census 2000 advertising binder, several informational and promotional posters, a partnership informational kit, and two special reports. There are also two VHS tapes with advertisements from the Census 2000 campaign.
Collection comprises handouts of the aircraft sales training presentation that used an analogy to a football game to organize the information. Includes pages for the attendee's notes, as well as charts, graphs, financial information, and quizzes. Divided into sections: prospecting, consultant, interviewing, salesmanship, proposals, demonstrating, and scoring.
Letters from 1821-1946 concern family matters for the most part but also reflect Chamberlain's career as an author of local history and her work at Duke University as the house counselor of Pegram House. Scattered earlier letters include one from Herbert J. Hagermand of the American Embassy at Saint Petersburg, 1889; letters on the Russo-Japanese War, 1905; and letters from John Spencer Bassett, 1903. The remainder of the collection includes genealogical material on the Chamberlain family; clippings of articles about Chamberlain and her books; drafts of some of her writings; a copy of a journal of a trip to Europe in 1792-1793; diary of Chamberlain's trip to Europe in 1929; and personal diaries, 1923-1926 and 1943.
This collection contains royal warrants or decrees issued during the reign of King Charles II of England concerning the assignment of 'armes' or royal titles. Four of the seven documents are written on behalf of the King by the Earl Marshall of England. Two are 'certification of armes' by Edward Walker. The remaining item is a listing of possible heraldic figures to be used for any of the King's children. The names listed in the warrants are sons and daughters of the King and three of his known mistresses. Those listed include Anne Palmer Fitzroy, Charles Fitzroy, Charlotte Fitzroy, George Fitzroy, and Henry Fitzroy, children of Charles II and Barbara née Villiers (1641-1709). Charles Lennox, the son of Charles II and Louise Renée de Penancoet de Kérouaille (1649–1734) and Charles Beauclerk, son of Charles II and Nell Gwyn (1650-1687). Three of the four warrant papers are early drafts of the final documents.
Document granting titles of nobility or 'armes' to the Earles of Southampton and Euston and to Lord George Fitzroy, all children of Charles II and Barbara née Villiers (1641-1709), Duchess of Cleveland.
Certification by Edward Walker, 'Kn. Garter Principall King of Armes' of royal declaration of Dec. 10 assigning title of Earl of Southampton to Charles FitzRoy (and the like for the Earl of Euston and George FitzRoy).
Draft warrant from King Charles II granting Charles Beauclerk the title of Earl of Burford. Beauclerk was the son of Charles II and Nell Gwyn (1650-1687).
'Draught' of warrant from King Charles II granting notble titles to Anne and Charlotte Fitzroy, daughters of the Duchess of Cleveland (a mistress of Charles II).
Draft of warrant from King Charles II granting a noble title to Charles Lenox, son of King Charles II and Louise Renée de Penancoet de Kérouaille (1649-1734).
Certification by Edward Walker, 'Kn. Garter Principall King of Armes' of royal declaration of Oct. 1 assigning title of Duke of Richmond to Charles Lenox.
Largely undecipherable list with four distinct parts possibly discussing potential heraldic elements to assign to King's natural children (Charles II did not have any).
Audio interviews and programs recorded by Charles E. Cobb, Jr., from 2012 to 2014, with members of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC) and others around the 50th anniversary of Freedom Summer and for research for Cobb's book, THIS NONVIOLENT STUFF'LL GET YOU KILLED: HOW GUNS MADE THE CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT POSSIBLE. Transcripts are available for a portion of the interviews. Interviewees and speakers include: Shawn Leigh Alexander, Carol Anderson, Annie Pearl Avery, Willie Blue, Julian Bond, Simeon Booker, Taylor Branch, Fred Brooks, Patricia Ann Brooks, Dorothy Burlage, Jackie Byrd, Clayborne Carson, Hodding Carter, the Chinn Family, Purcell Conway, Mac Cotton, Courtland Cox, Connie Curry, Dave Dennis, John Dittmer, John Doar, Ivanhoe Donaldson, LC Dorsey, Myrlie Evers, George Greene, Carol Hallstrom, Vincent Harding, Jessie Harris, Don Harris, Bruce Hartford, Charles Jones, Lonnie King, Dorie Ladner, Bernard Lafayette, Jim Lawson, Worth Long, Deborah Well McCoy, Chuck McDew, Charles McLaurin, Leslie Mclemore, Bob Moses, Christopher Parker, Willie Peacock, Bernice Reagon, Willie Ricks, Reggie Robinson, Cleve Sellers,Charles and Shirley Sherrod, Jane Stembridge, Patricia Sullivan, Flukie Swarez, Corey Walker, and Hollis Watkins. Topics include: civil rights, SNCC, non-violence, guns, and the backgrounds of interview participants.
Discussing growing up in Birmingham (partially) then moved to Pittsburgh for a while then back to Birmingham at 14yrs old (late 50s) and the trauma from that. Discussed the turmoil/racial unrest in the south that surrounded the late 50s, how she got involved in the movement, she heard about the freedom riders she bought a ticket from Birmingham to Montgomery, met Wilson Brown at the Greyhound station, Wilson brown explained nonviolence and she decided she didn't want to do it so she got a refund on her ticket, Wilson invited her to a SNCC meeting in Atlanta, she went to the meeting with Nathaniel Lee and Wilson Brown. At the meeting she met Julian, Reggie, Bob Mants, Diane Nash, Anne and Carl Braden, Bob Zellner & Ella Baker. Discussed Marietta GA incident and almost getting killed on the way back to Birmingham. Attempting to meet Rev Shuttlesworth in Birmingham and the white girl was with them and they asked for directions in Marietta and people spotted them and had them followed by police. Wilson is in jail, Annie and the white girl started looking for black people, they went back to the bus station, bought tickets back to Atlanta, Nathaniel had a number and he called the SNCC office. The Associated Press started calling after Nathaniel called the SNCC office in Atlanta and asked if they were alright. A mob had gathered and they were beating on the seats. Howard Moore (attorney), Julian and someone else in a black car and they lead them back to Atlanta, Forman suggested they stay in Atlanta the night then went to Rev Shuttlesworth house (Birmingham), After this, Annie begins going to the mass meetings. Rev Shuttlesworth, Pfeiffer, Willis, Billups and Oliver part of the movement in Birmingham. Went to the second Atlanta conference, then she went down to Albany GA to demonstrate on Bob's request, she was arrested for the first time there. Participated in sit ins in Birmingham, Gaston, AL, Discussed what did family/friends think about her involvement in movement (appeared happy), thought it was dangerous, discussed the different places she worked in the movement on and thoughts on guns.
From Kosciusko, discussed how family reacted to his movement work, MS, Discussed attending Tougaloo College and movement beginnings there. Bob Moses asked Mac to go to McComb County then he went Wallflower County (MS).Discussed his movement experiences in Wallflower, secret black society in Wallflower that protected community, the community's reaction to SNCC, discussed working in the Mississippi Delta. Attitudes about black people in Hill country had about plantation country in the Delta.
Charlie asks Carol to discuss how she got interested in the movement with her background. Carol explains her history of her family's experience with persecution & having to flee Russia, Ukraine (Jews) and when she heard about the Greensboro sit ins their courage struck her to be involved. Carol discusses her beginning in the movement, she connected with those in Philadelphia and coordinate efforts to go into Baltimore. Discussing integrating restaurants, Recalling her first arrest which was in Cambridge, how she was ostracized by the college community who found her involvement embarrassing, Encountered SNCC through Reggie Robinson, Discussed Gloria Richardson who lead CNAC (Cambridge Nonviolent Action Committee), Also worked in New York SNCC office identifying people who could support the organization, Carol took an integrated group of high school students by bus down to Amite County(Spring 64) to expose them to how it was in the area, discusses how ended up working as a field secretary in Amite County (through Mr. Steptoe), work in Amite County, guns and complications of being a white woman from Brooklyn, NY traveling with Herbert lee Jr and E.W Steptoe in Mississippi (she said she had to be willing to listen to listen more than talk), had to be willing to not talk , taking chances rather than talking about taking chances, discussed Andy Goodman (She's the one who recruited him). Discussed how Amite County whites reacted to her presence (negatively). Ended with discussing leaving Amite County.
Discussing his beginnings in the movement in Arkansas (ARSNCC) and becoming a member of the SNCC staff, the term unviolence, 1960 Raleigh conference, local people and their use of unviolence, Hartman Turnbow(Holmes County), Worth discusses his role as field secretary in SNCC, He gets to Selma, AL because couldn't get anyone else to go so he signed up, taking refuge with the nation of Islam temple , getting arrested and beat up. Discussing how the local people felt towards SNCC: those of the status quo didn't receive them well, others appreciated SNCC.
Coined the term black power, discussed: The march/rally when which Black Power was first said, The issues between SNCC and SCLC, Growing up in Chattanooga, TN, Freedom Riders/Fred Winter came through Chattanooga (that's how he first got involved with movement), getting arrested in the sit ins, intimidation for local whites, Discussed hearing of SNCC in 1963 and how Ruby Doris Smith called on him to work for SNCC in Atlanta (1963), Also the movement work he did in Gaston AL, Birmingham AL, then was assigned to SW Georgia (until Selma). Discussed first time using "Black Power", Discussed his pan Africanism and back to Africa ideas.
Discussing his involvement Civil Interest group (affiliated to SNCC), after dropping out of high school, he went to Cortez Peters business college, Dean of his school Walter Dixon (first black city council Baltimore), Dixon asked Reggie to become a part of the student group (Civil Interest group), Dixon introduced a public accommodations bill and Reggie was the eyes/ears of the student interest group, became treasurer of the Civil Interest group, Voter Registration(preparing people for the voter registration tests), Discussed how he became the representative for SNCC for the big Kentucky meeting, and how he was presented by Ella Baker at the Kentucky meeting. Reggie was asked to go to Mississippi (McComb). Discussed staying at Mama Cotton's house in McComb, setting up freedom school, Voter registration tests in Mississippi, SNCC's first tragedy: the murder of Herbert Lee, SNCC got scared and Amzie Moore convinced them to stay and they turned the funeral into a mass meeting and continued to do work. Situation had gotten out of hand and they had gotten back to Atlanta regrouped and decided who would go back to Mississippi.
University of Pennsylvania Press podcast. Stephanie Brown interviews with Shawn Leigh Alexander on his book Army of Lions.
(Poor quality). Discussing inner conflicts blacks had in fighting in WW2 when freedom wasn't available at home. Black men came home and protected home with military precision. To arm or not? You can't give something that's already ours, you can only take. Role of the veteran in the movement.
Telephone interview. Charlie asks Julian about the founding SNCC conference in 1960. Discussed: feelings about nonviolence, experience with guns, Discussed the conversations SNCC as an organization had about guns, Local people and their guns.
Telephone interview. wife Carol McCabe Booker also. Discussing interviewing in the south with the danger, Discussed Amzie Moore (one of his best contacts in MS), Aaron Moore, Medgar Evers. Discussed what it was like for Johnson Publication to come down to the Deep South. Discussed covering Emmet Till case.
Telephone interview. Discussed nonviolence and armed self-defense. Also discussed the perceptions of nonviolence, like that it was passive.
Telephone interview. Klan attacks freedom house in Jonesboro,LA, Deacons for defense
Telephone interview. discussed the riot in Columbia TN
Telephone interview Part 1. Desegregation caused the resurgence of KKK and white citizens council, discussing the white reaction to blacks organizing and being involved in the movement. Discussed movement people. Opinion on nonviolence vs violence. She's a pacifist but not judgmental of those who chose to use weapons.
Telephone interview Part 2. Short interview, discussing Robert Williams, who he wasn't that different than mainstream, discussed the NAACP was suspicious of Medgar Evers.
In person/background noise. Recording began in middle of conversation, they are discussing bombings, CC Bryant church bombed, Mr. Bryant brought Bob Moses down to McComb county MS. Bombings began patrols with guns. Also discussed the camaraderie and unique sense of community McComb had. Shortly discussed the "crazy negro" idea and why they were left alone.
Telephone interview. Recording began as talking had already commenced, SNCC wasn't built around a particular viewpoint, except the statement of purpose. Violence vs nonviolence, Believed more in unviolence which is more of self defense.
Difficult to understand/Carter is muffled. In person. In relation to Charlie Cobb book, Fear of black insurrection comes out of the knowledge of violence done to blacks through years, Beginning of fear of blacks,Self defense
(Poor quality). A lot of background music/noise. Discussing the atmosphere and environment in Mississippi during the 60s, commentary on modern events , Trayvon Martin, war, C.O Chinn, story of him wearing a pistol in court
In person. Palm Coast, Florida. Discusses Purcell's early life in St. Augustine, FL/Lincolnville FL, Conditions in Lincolnville were dismal, Influence from Florida Normal College students to become more aware of movement, nonviolence, Self. defense, Lincolnville was different in that they would protect their own with violence, the whites there normally didn't come into black community to violence but they community responded with violence. Caused whites to be afraid to come into black communities of West Augustine and Lincolnville. Discussing early interest and beginnings of being in the movement, Parents thoughts on the protest/movements, and the racist element followed MLK Jr and severe violence began then. And talks about WW2 veterans including Purcell's father.
In person. Short Interview, discusses racial issues within masonry class in Daytona Beach, firing from working in the Post Office in NY because of racism and having to get an lawyer to get job back and he got the job back.
In person. Short Interview on SW Mississippi. Discusses the local people who helped to protect SNCC and Guns.
In person Part 1. In Washington D.C: chronological interview, attended Howard University, A member of NAG/SNCC, did sit ins at Howard, Discussion about non violence, he says people believed it was a good tactical move/strategic, you engaged in non violence because you didn't have enough force to confront the opposition. States Nonviolence appealed to outsiders to address fear. Spoke on NAG. Advantage of nonviolence is it was relatable to the dominate religious narrative, the only way people could understand and not be afraid.
In person Part 2. Doesn't think the movement could have survived without the non violent component, allowed the movement to grow. Albany GA and Nashville groups were philosophically nonviolent. Honor roll students in the movement, Sterling Brown: mentor of NAG,not allowed to be a campus organization, talked about Howard University faculty and their relationship with the movement and NAG students. Howard University administration didn't want anything to do with civil rights but didn't condemn students for off campus activity. NAACP resentment towards SNCC and Dr.King.
Telephone interview. Recording began after conversation started, discussion of Medgar Evers and his guns, discussion about non violence as a way of life vs tactical non violence. To her knowledge it was never suggested that SNCC accept non violence as a way of life.
Providence, Rhode Island at Brown University. In person. discussing Northern Louisiana, Deacons for Defense. Started in Jonesboro, Louisiana. 1957 in Shreveport, LA the first "I have a dream" speech by MLK Jr. Organized with men who worked in paper mills and worked with longshoreman union in New Orleans. CORE group began working with Deacons because they were resistant to outsiders telling locals how to protect their communities. CORE organized in Louisiana around 1960. Dave Dennis went to hometown (Shreveport) to establish CORE there, NAACP was already there. Deacons operated to protect the churches then eventually spread out to protect community as a whole. The Deacons were called by a different name at first. Northern Louisiana: staunch segregation and Klan territory , southwest Louisiana: integrated living, Voter Registration and CORE's involvement.
Telephone interview. Recording began in middle of conversation: Discussing New Orleans core group members: George, Jerome Smith, Doris Castle held group together and committed were committed to nonviolence through Jim McCain (CORE national chapter). New Orleans group sort of a renegade CORE group. CORE disintegrated after Floyd McKissick was voted in. CORE Louisiana group stopped organizing chapters, started working with local people.
John Dittmer at Fannie Lou Hamer Institute (poor quality) . Lecture is mostly focuses on Mississippi and McComb County specifically. Talks about government and voting (specifically the poll taxes, laws and literacy tests that made voting difficult. Briefly discusses the White Citizen's Council. The rest of the lecture is Q & A.
In person/background noise/Poor Quality. Talks about meeting Mr. Steptoe, Guns, local people protecting themselves with weapons, tension/violence in the south
Transcript available. In person at Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island. Discussed when Donaldson first hear the name SNCC and thoughts. Discussed SNCC beginnings, was apart of October meeting that SNCC began formalizing SNCC. Issue in SNCC regarding direct action vs nonviolence, In MS nonviolence, ex: sit ins were direct action. Discussing how he got his start into SNCC in Louisville. Donaldson didn't think of nonviolence in a philosophical way, religious people in SNCC were philosophical committed to Nonviolence, others weren't but worked together. Donaldson wasn't with the gun people or the philosophically nonviolent people. "Can't beat a tank with a Molotov cocktail", impressed by people who can be pacifists, requires lots of inner strength. Discussed grassroots organizing and discussion of nonviolence with the local people.
Transcript available. Telephone interview. Nonviolence is the way to survive the future. Human beings are violent, either by running, hiding or participating in it. Violence has never changed anything, it makes realignments of power and authority. Culture we grow up in says you step to me, I'll step to you. Culture of the human race. Incarceration of people, majority in prison for drugs. No voices were there to speak about nonviolence after the movement. Post Civil Rights era: discussion of non violence never center of the discussion was used as a means for the movement. There's no values training, The philosophically committed to nonviolence still exist but they don't organize in the communities. The Rev Lawson type of people have always existed, their tools became relevant because of the mission of civil rights, the mission got consumed by reform politics, e.i: voting rights, immigration, etc. When the generation fulfilled it's limited mission, it ended. A nonviolent movement against violence (Of all sorts/across the board), you have to have a conversation about violence itself, sort of like groups like the quakers, Jim Lawson (Bernard lafayatte who was a student of Lawson), Thoreau. No one wants to hear about violence as a concept, we deal with it more as an issue for example, "domestic violence", get boys to stop being on girls. Deacons for Defense and groups like that protected nonviolent people, nonviolence made the change not the guns. Guns never allowed for discussion. People romanticize guerilla warfare. Discussion of Stokely Carmichael's call out about Black Power= how did it get interpreted as violent: white guilt and white arrogance. Marion Berry: uppity negro, white people resented him. Violence or the threat of violence being used to enforce boycott, The demands on MLK were just too phenomenal.
LC at Fannie Lou Hamer Institute (poor quality). A recording of a lecture. Discussing experiences during the movement, confronting the KKK who were outside her house and they left, comparing the community today compared to the past, Conditions in the south for Black people during the movement time. (The last half of the interview is a Q & A session)
In person. Discusses Medgar's life/attitude before/after serving in the military, Charles and Medgar's thoughts about the Mau Mau movement in Kenya & forming one in the US, The changing of the name of their child on the birth certificate, meeting Medgar for the first time, anecdotal and biographical information about Medgar Evers.
Part 1. Telephone interview. Very short interview. Harding is giving edits to Charlie's book.
Part 2. Telephone interview. More edits/comments/suggestions on Charlie's Book draft. Discussing SCLC and who might be able to discuss SCLC best.
Telephone interview. Thoughts when first hearing about SNCC: Didn't know anything about what they were about. Thoughts on non violence: He was not thinking about non violence, it wasn't a factor in his interest in SNCC, he supported students being involved in the movement. Sherrod: nonviolence as a tactic, Thoughts on guns and local people protecting them with the guns. Guns presence in rural south minimized violence. No intense SNCC conversations/arguments about guns.
In person/background noise. Discussed how people resisted the violent actions of white supremacy, experiences in the movement in SW Mississippi, Security group w/ CC Bryant, Guns, Citizenship classes/Freedom schools, Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party, nonviolent workshops.
Part 2. In person/background noise. Very short interview. Discussed support of local community of the movement, armed protection, playing golf tournaments, brief insight into school background and Atlanta SNCC conference.
Telephone interview. SCLC in Tuscaloosa,al was protected by group of Korean war veterans. He was on the field staff, very hieratical organization, SCLC staff meetings where about getting the work done, tactics not really philosophy, strategics, non violence and violence like SNCC. Debate between philosophical non violent (minority) and tactical nonviolent (majority), (I'd rather but caught with it than without it) non violent was a given on protests, debate came with local people and armed guards at night and carrying guns outside the demonstrations. Experiences in Selma,Grenada,Crenshaw County,AL. Also worked with CORE, SCOPE, he had workshops with young people.
Transcript available. Telephone interview. biographical, discussed his movement beginnings divinity student at Johnson C Smith University, attended festival in Vienna, Austria and was asked to sit before the House committee on Un American activities, joined Woolworth's sit ins in Greensboro. What nonviolence is? To Jones it is a lifestyle. Beginnings of SNCC, He may have been the one to include "non violent" to add the nonviolent to student coordinating committee. Voting registration is direct action
Transcript available. Telephone interview. Harry Belafonte invited McDew, Diane, Sherrod, Jenkins to come to Washington DC for a concert, talked about the next phase of the movement, this interview is largely focused on voter registration, McComb Mississippi, everyone had gotten arrested and he asked Harry Belafonte for help with money and he sent some money. Effect of SNCC presence on the community, it introduced a different type of violence. SNCC left McComb to regroup in Atlanta once they got out of jail. Results of meeting; voter registration was an essential move to empower blacks in rural south. Albany,GA bus boycott & mass meetings. First freedom singers: Charles Jones, Sherrod, cordell,Bernice and ruthie harris.
Telephone interview. Has been transcribed.
Transcript available. Autobiographical interview for most part. First experience handling a gun, Deacons for justice, Charles Evers (Not a fan), discussed Medgar Evers: a role model/someone to look up to, first time in the Mississippi delta was in finding COFO there (curfew was unusual). The rest of the interview discusses experiences in the movement and people in the movement.
Telephone interview. Where did the name SNCC come from? Said Jim Lawson may have a better idea of the answer. Nashville group was unique, 3 months of training by Jim Lawson, committed to nonviolence. Theme: Nonviolence, what is it? & feelings/thoughts behind it. Believed in King-ian nonviolence: passive resistance not pacificism. Leon Sullivan boycott, gang tactics to enforce boycott in Philadelphia. One girl told him not to interfere with her suffering. Nonviolence is not passive. 3 state conspiracy to kill him, CORE and Medgar evers. Non violence sometimes unnervered attackers, practical i.e jail time or worse, un-violence between violence and non violence lodged in community. Grew up around guns.
Telephone interview. Short interview: Talks about the correlation between guns and southern culture, because it was a hunting culture, mostly every household had a gun. Also asks goes over how SNCC got its name, Lawson thinks he suggested the name SNCC. Speaks briefly about Nashville Group.
In person. Jackson, MS. Discussed using the term unviolence and how it was applied and thoughts on nonviolence as a philosophy or as a way of life, His role in the movement (becoming a replacement for Bernard Lafayette after he was beaten and asked to go to Fisk), Watts Line, Gangs and their protection of movement people, being armed with guns plus guns and its impact on Southern culture, Little Rock community protected itself, the Bates family and using weapons to protect the house in Little Rock, deacons for defense and justice, Self Defense, Citizenship school, a little historical talk of slavery & freedom.
In person in Albany, GA. Short Interview. discussed how father in general and how he was nonviolent to the core, no guns.
Transcript available. A lot of background noise (Jackson, Mississippi): Talks about the idea that they decided not to leave local people behind when violence ensued, SNCC would not leave once things got tough. Mentions Natchez, Mississippi. Steptoe in Amite County, decided Steptoe was right and that they couldn't be there without guns. Black girls at southern university were sponsored by white men in Natchez, so It was dangerous because people weren't trustworthy. He said philosophically he never believed non violence would work, never believed in it from the beginning. He wasn't actively pursuing violence but would kill if necessary. More typical attitude in SNCC minus Jim Lawson students. More discussion on violence vs non violence and incidents of violence.
Transcript available. Telephone interview. "which cheek you gonna turn?" SNCC founding. How was the name SNCC proposed? Someone from the Nashville group proposed the SNCC name, believes it was Diane. Talked about SCLC meeting/conference that SNCC was created out of, how many students were ministerial students who defying powerful ministers of SCLC. After the second day of conference the Nonviolent was added to the SNCC organization name. David Forbes convinced McDew to stay. The third day SNCC was an organization that had plans for future. SNCC statement of purpose was a collective effort, did not reflect the way most SNCC members thought, not written by Jim Lawson.
Transcript available. In person. Jackson, Mississippi: discussed anecdotes about Mississippi, Starts talking about the movement in the Delta, Fannie Lou Hamer really got it going. Freedom farm. Briefly discusses guns and place in the home, mostly for food.
Transcript available. In person. Jamaica Plains, Massachusetts. Ideas about nonviolence? Non violence offense; the act of going to the courthouse is the attack itself. Conversation on the use of guns, Ella Baker was not into nonviolence, felt it was viable though. MS staff and discussion/debated/argument of guns? It didn't really happen, they knew that in McComb that there was self defense. After Stokely says black power, there was a shift. FBI reports of people commenting on non violence. Not a lot of self defense on the road
Telephone interview. Discussing WW2 time period groups organizing specifically with black WW2 vets, black veterans on average more often resistant to white supremacy than guys who haven't served. More educated blacks more likely to be selected to serve. Desegregation of the military by Truman. White military leaders mostly southern.
Background noise. Discussed Mississippi and Guyot
Background noise. Short Interview. Discussed organizing within the community and making organizers out of the local people.
Transcript available. In person. Jackson, Mississippi. Discussed first encounter to the name Student Nonviolent coordinating committee. The word nonviolent, what it meant, love for your fellow man=nonviolent? From Albany, GA, Grew up around guns. Took a long time to develop a concept of non-violence that worked for her. Father was active in the movement.
Telephone interview. Discussed Cambridge movement, Pops St.Clair (wasn't nonviolent) undertaker and his family was a prominent Black Family in Cambridge , Gloria Richardson (niece of Pop's St.Clair), Discussed how Reggie got involved with the Cambridge movement (he was working in Baltimore with CORE/SNCC) then was told he could be of assistance in Cambridge,MD, Herb St.Clair made his house in Cambridge the SNCC headquarters, Local people in Cambridge supported SNCC, Discussed how he got to McComb County Mississippi.
Short interview: Briefly discussed Bob Mants, Monroe Sharp, Guns and nonviolence.
Telephone interview. Reaction to the name SNCC, students stuck out in his mind, Believed nonviolence was philosophical not tactical, He was in high school when he heard about SNCC from Ella Baker, Grew up with guns, self defense was understood to survive, white citizen's council became a more acceptable group. Philosophical non violence vs Tactical, most believed in Tactical. Discussed Meredith march.
Transcript available. In person.
Telephone interview. discussed SNCC beginnings, felt that the organization never would have become an SCLC youth group because most youth were skeptical of the adults, wanted their own voice. Discussed the meetings that led to the establishment of the permanent SNCC group. Discussed how she met Dr. King and was put into contact with Ella Baker, this was prior to the creation of SNCC. Discussed meeting Bob Moses and Bob's experiences in Mississippi. Discussed how the conversation of Voter Registration began.
Part 2. Continued conversation of Voter Registration. Discussed the differences between students from the cities and country side & north and south=they came in with different backgrounds but became one. Jane and Charlie discuss letters she wrote to Bob Moses. Jane wrote letters to introduce Bob Moses to local people including Amzie Moore.
Telephone interview/bad quality: Discussing NAACP, DuBois, Johnson and White, Discusses the WWI period and WWII veterans
A lot of background noise. Short interview Discussed C.O Chinn and Billy Noble, C.O Chinn and Billy Noble relationship, Noble respected C.O more than any other man.
Further discussion of C.O and feeling regret regarding how C.O was treated. Unique individual, provided much support to SNCC and the movement. Chinn lost everything (he had rental properties, nightclub and land) when SNCC left, but there was nobody who looked out after him. Movement people were too caught up in own priorities to help. Flukie left Mississippi and was torn up over Chaney killing.
In person. Secret societies (prince hall masons), freemasonary, Concerns about masons, period. Gabriel's Rebellion, Nat Turner said to be a freemason.
Tougaloo College in Jackson, Mississippi. In person Interview Part 1. Talking about C.O Chinn, gun toting individual and he openly carried, Bill Noble of Canton,MS sherriff had mutual respect and disdain for one another. Discussion of blacks like Chinn that defied the status quo and being considered "crazy". Legacy of C.O Chinn, children became successful and the city honored him. (Canton,Madison County MS), C.O Chinn and family long time registered voters welcomed in SNCC because of the common goal of voter registration despite ideological differences. They weren't into the integration piece, more interested in political power. Discussion about CORE and policy on communities that refuse to disarm: we should not work with them, but Dave Dennis group believed they had no right to tell local people what to do. When New Orleans CORE people became involved with Deacons of Defense, there was a split became CORE South. Deacons became connected with Longshoreman union(powerful political group). Football, Jim Brown and actor Fred Williams: adopted Jonesboro group, supplied money and weapons. Chilly Willy organized Bogalusa group.
Tougaloo College in Jackson, Mississippi. In person Interview Part 2. Short clip discussing armed guys protecting churches in Shreveport and police would arrest them so bombing could commence and it was open war fare in that area.
In person. Question and Answer session with teachers. Hollis discusses the moment he joined SNCC, formed Pike county non violent action committee attempted to integrate business there, Discussion of SNCC vision statement, said it was written by Nashville group and Jim Lewis, Attitude about nonviolence about a tactic, self defense is not the opposite of non violence, people compare being defensive with being violent. Students ask Hollis and Charlie about their relationships with white Mississippians. Explanation of "crazy negro" white people called black people who stand up for themselves that as a way to explaining why they leave them alone. Discrepancies between white Mississippians and later accounts of MS and what actually happened
(Poor quality). Discussing experiences in McComb County MS, his movement beginnings: Got involved with NAACP in McComb before he got involved with SNCC, How freedom schools began: students involved in movement got expelled so it began as a way to educate them. Discusses work in Hattiesburg, MS as well, spent 55 days on death row and went into solitary confinement (The Hole). There is also a question and answer portion where Charlie Cobb and Hollis Watkins respond. Q and A's asked about women in the movement.
In person in Clinton, TN at the children's defense fund. Discusses Hollis reaction to the name Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, name startled him. First heard of SNCC when he got to McComb, he believes he heard it in Bob Moses office. Hollis thoughts on nonviolence and violence, was reluctant about nonviolence. Nonviolence was just talked about in the workshops. Discussed Vernon Dahmer who also wasn't nonviolent. Discussed Crazy Negro terminology, and Man Porter, a local "crazy negro" , Hollis says the crazy negro terminology was a way of explaining why they would leave black man who spoke their mind and stood up for themselves, Ex: why would you beat up a crazy man?. Also discussed when he took a shift guarding the home with a gun from a couple who was allowing him to stay at their home.
Transcript available. Hollis and Cobb, (poor quality).
The photographs of Cedric N. Chatterley span the years 1983-2013, and were created throughout his career as a documentary photographer, beginning with his Master in Fine Arts thesis project, Ambivalent Ecstasies/Converging Energies, on American religious experience. The photographs are primarily black-and-white gelatin silver prints ranging in size from 8x10 to 18x24 inches.
The most prominent themes in Chatterley's work are labor, community, and religious expression. He has photographed chicken slaughterhouse workers in Maine; Cambodian immigrants in North Carolina, a project undertaken with Barbara Lau of the Center for Documentary Studies at Duke University; David "Honeyboy" Edwards and other Southern blues musicians in Mississippi and on tour; a substance abusers' rehabilitation community in Durham, N.C., also with Barbara Lau; tornado survivors in South Dakota who rebuilt their town over a period of ten years; Holy Land USA, an abandoned religious theme park in Connecticut; and a woman sheep rancher's work during lambing season in Montana. Some of the images were taken with Chatterley's hand-built cameras.
A final series consists of materials relating to Barbara Lau's book, From Cambodia to Greensboro, documenting Cambodian immigrants in North Carolina, that includes images taken by Chatterley, and a set of recorded interviews from 2008 in which Chatterley speaks about his career as a documentary photographer. The cassettes have been converted to digital files and use copies are available for access. Original recordings are closed to use.
Series are arranged in chronological order; prints are numbered and captioned by the photographer.
Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
Consists of nine sub-series spanning Chatterley's career as a documentary photographer: Social Events, Religious Iconography, Labor, Southern Landscapes, Travel, Family, Maine Folklife, TROSA, and Downeast North Carolina, with the bulk of the series made up of Social Events and Labor. Original captions were taken from back of prints. Subseries are arranged in a chronological sequence; the 127 prints within are in original order as received.
Thirty-nine 11x14 inch selenium-toned gelatin silver prints depicting social events at various locations around the United States.
Ten 11x14 selenium-toned gelatin silver prints depicting religious imagery found across the United States.
Thirty-two 11x14 selenium-toned gelatin silver prints depicting work at various locations around the United States.
Six 11x14 inch selenium-toned gelatin silver prints of scenes from across the American South and Midwest.
One folder containing 22 11x14 inch selenium-toned gelatin silver prints depicting Chatterley's travels in Mexico, England, Ireland, and Italy.
Nine 11x14 inch selenium-toned gelatin silver prints depicting members of Chatterley's family, including two self-portraits.
Three 11x14 inch selenium-toned gelatin silver prints depicting basket-making in Maine.
One 11x14 inch selenium-toned gelatin silver print. See also the main series in this collection entitled Triangle Residence Options for Substance Abusers.
Five 11x14 inch selenium-toned gelatin silver prints of images taken by Chatterley during the summer of 1994 in Halifax County, North Carolina.
Consists of 50 8x10 inch selenium-toned gelatin silver prints and one larger undated laminated color placemat. Built in 1958, Holy Land USA was a religious roadside attraction in Waterbury, Connecticut. The images document the condition of the park, which closed in 1984 after 26 years of operation. Original captions taken from back of prints. Many of the images were printed in 2001. Prints are in original order as received.
Consists of three 11x14 inch and 40 18x24 inch gelatin silver prints for Chatterley's Master of Fine Arts thesis at Southern Illinois University at Carbondale, entitled Ambivalent Ecstasies/Converging Energies. This body of work explores religious ecstatic experience. The three 11x14 prints offer a panoramic shot of the thesis exhibit, while the forty 18x24 prints form the body of work for the thesis project. The prints have no captions but are numbered sequentially, with information included that indicates their positions in the exhibit, and the date of the exhibit, May 6, 1987.
Consists of 91 11x14 inch and 10 16x20 inch gelatin silver prints. On February 24, 1988, Penobscot Poultry in Belfast, Maine closed down. Chatterley documented the final days of the last chicken processing plant in the state and followed former employee Linda Lord as she sought new employment afterwards. The plant became the subject of the book, I Was Content and Not Content: The Story of Linda Lord and the Closing of Penobscot Poultry by Alicia J. Rouverol and Stephen A. Cole, with Chatterley contributing the photographs. Original captions, with Chatterley's contextual side comments, were taken from back of prints. Arranged chronologically.
Consists of 119 11x14 selenium-toned gelatin silver prints and contact prints documenting Mississippi Delta blues guitarist David "Honeyboy" Edwards. Images were taken between 1990 and 1996. They feature Edwards and the places he visited while touring the southern and midwestern United States, including Arkansas, Chicago, and Louisiana, and images of Honeyboy visiting friends, relatives, and locations from his boyhood towns of Shaw and Greenwood, Mississippi. Some images feature fellow blues musicians who appeared with Honeyboy in concerts and recording sessions. Original captions with Chatterley's contextual side comments were taken from back of prints. Arranged chronologically.
This large body of work consists of images documenting the aftermath of a powerful tornado that caused the nearly total destruction of Spencer, South Dakota (McCook County) by a tornado on May 30, 1998, as well as the subsequent rebuilding of the town, and the tenth anniversary of the tornado. The photographer, Cedric Chatterly, is a resident of South Dakota. Original captions are taken from back of prints. The 268 gelatin silver prints are arranged in original order as received, with some gaps in numbering present.
This is one of the very first photographs I made when I arrived a half a mile north of Spencer on May 31, 1998. People were gethering on the corner of South Dakota Highway 38 and County Road 431. A state police barricade would stop many people from entering, including residents. I entered easier than most with my Press Pass. Governor Bill Janklow was there giving the "go ahead" to anybody wanting to board the bus.
F-4 tornado hit the town around 8:30 pm, May 30, 1998.
This print was made from two negatives printed consecutively.
A kid on a four-wheeler wanted to show Chatterley where a circular saw blade had stuck itself into a tree. This print was made from two negatives printed consecutively.
Cliff had lived in this house for six months and had considered buying it from the Webbs. The mud on the walls of the house was caused by the water tower falling to the ground during the tornado.
Among those present are Governor Bill Janklow, Senator Tom Daschle, Senator Tim Johnson, FEMA Director James Lee Witt, and Vice President Al Gore.
This print was made from two negatives printed consecutively.
Governor Bill Janklow asked for 500 volunteers through media outlets just days prior to this event. A F-4 tornado came through Spencer around 8:30 on May 30, 1998, destroying nearly 75% of a town with 325 people. Only six people were killed.
This print was made from two negatives printed consecutively.
It was snowing and the windchill was around 25 degrees below zero.
I rented this studio space from August 1997 to March 2007. This print was made from two negatives printed consecutively.
Danny is the main canvas sewing employee at Spencer Canvas in Mitchell, South Dakota. He designed and made all the awning for his house.
This print was made from two negatives printed consecutively.
This was the day (ironically) that we rounded up the last of the cattle on Webb's farm, putting an end to three generations of having cattle on this land. The dead calf was close by and the mother cow was nearly dead at the time of this shooting. It was 15 degrees and windy.
This print was made from three negatives printed consecutively.
Her calf is twelve feet away (left). Complications arose the night before while giving birth in the north pasture. Ironically, this was the day Lloyd and I rounded up the remaining cattle for market, leaving the Webb's land free of beef -- only about twenty horses remained. Valentine's Day, February 14, 2000. McCook County, South Dakota.
They were among the 25 or 30 that remained on Lloyd and Nancy Webb's farm, thus ending the bovine legacy that began with her father. Nancy refused to help because she was too emotional about this event.
Lloyd will buy a 1952 Chevy later in the year. He had a 1953 Chevy heavily damaged in the tornado and regrettably let Bernie Opland crush it and haul it off.
This was pertaining to his contractor abandoning the Stone's home construction in Spencer and leaving them $35,000 in debt. A court settlement was finally reached but the Stones filed for bankruptcy a few years later.
This building had once been the Golden Pheasant Restaurant and it was connected to several motor lodges. Dave bought their home in Spencer around 1990.
Richard had been living with friends or relatives and coming and ging from Spencer. He is now 17 and thinking of leaving school.
One box was for him and Nancy and the other was for their daughter Jenna. The mail carrier could not come down this road unless there was more than one mailbox, although Jenna only lived part-time at the farm.
This had been the location of St. Mary's Catholic Church, which was destroyed by the May 30 tornado.
Bridgette looks on. They are in the north pasture about 1/4 mile from their farmhouse. Nancy's grandfather homesteaded this acreage.
The church was rebuilt during the years that followed the tornado. The woman in the right image is holding an Argus Leader newsprint, published the day after the May 30 tornado.
This print was made from two negatives printed consecutively.
The youth minister at this church would let kids come and go and Richard was basically a runaway at this time.
Richard has returned home after being away for several weeks living on the streets and staying with friends in Mitchell, South Dakota.
Jessica is nearly 9 months pregnant with her first born Kaitlyn Ann.
This is directly in front of the closed motor lodge rooms on the commercial property they are making into a home. Dave is planning to start a herb and vegetable business called "Asphalt Gardens."
There were several birthdays in the Webb/Tilotson clan celebrated that day (Suzy, Jenna, and Myrta).
Steve is Nancy Webb's brother.
Steve is Nancy Webb's brother and the boyfriend of Maggie, Tim's mother.
Nixon got his name because he was born in a milkhouse. At first, he was called Milkhouse, which quickly turned to Millhouse, which quickly turned into Richard Nixon. I ran over Richard Nixon when the dog came running out to greet me at Lloyd's birthday party in late March 1999. Lloyd and I took him to the vet in Salem, got him fixed up and returned to the farm to finish the party. They made a pen in the house to keep Richard Nixon from running.
The gift was for Myrta, Nancy's sister. Mama cat is in the bottom center.
He is staying part-time with his cousin in Sioux Falls, South Dakota.
Richard is currently living with his aunt, Danny's sister, in Baltic, South Dakota.
This print was made from two negatives printed consecutively.
The hogsed planter belonged to Dave and Mary Twedt. Ironically, this was before I met them. Weeks later, after meeting them, I went with them to McCook Central High School to retrieve items. They gave me the planter and I ended up giving it to my sister, Jolea.
This print was made from two negatives printed consecutively.
Inmates from the South Dakota Department of Corrections were bussed out there every day to help with the clean-up.
The chruch was destroyed by a tornado on May 30, 1998. This was the last service before a complete razing took place, preparing the way for a new chapel to be built. South Dakota Department of Corrections inmates gather. They had been instrumental in helping clean up efforts from the very beginning a week earlier.
He and his wife were not home at the time. Their house was built in the 1980s.
(Henry operating equipment nearby did not allow me to hear the timer on my camera, thus causing the awkward moment.)
Nancy was the only person I knew who stood and witnessed their home being razed. I introduced myself shortly after making this image.
Donated items streamed in for days following the May 30, 1998 tornado. Most of the items were not taken.
The pile of rubble in the distance is one of two such heaps, increasing by the day. Near the end of June, both piles will be set on fire.
His truck was loaded with cars he had crushed after the Spencer tornado.
Opland and I were leaving the crushed cars at a recycling yard in Sioux City, Iowa. Bernie lived near Baltic, South Dakota.
Bernie crushed these cars in Spencer following the May 30, 1998 tornado. This load was one of several loads.
The dog is fake.
The books on the left were being sold by Salvation Army Volunteers. The display board on the right listed all the families and home sites affected by the May 30th tornado. Urban planners from Sioux Falls had suggested that those who rebuild in Spencer try and do so by possibly trading their property and building closer together. Believing that not everybody in Spencer would rebuild, they wanted to avoid large gaps between homes. The idea was roundly rejected by those who planned to stay.
This was the very last image I made with the original Ilford HP5 from the 100 foot bulk rolls.
The six brothers and sisters are in reference to the six deaths during the tornado in Spencer on May 30, 1998.
I would park at the corner of South Dakota Highway 38 and County Rd 431 and work or hitchhike into Spencer during the first 10 days or so following the May 30th tornado. I did not know at the time that Dave and Mary Twedt owned this property, having only met them briefly a few days after the tornado destroyed their home in Spencer. The driver is an unidentified Spencer resident with a truckload of furniture salvaged during the thunderstorm.
Inmates will launder and fold the clothing and it will be offered to Spencer residents in July.
This was the West pit.
The pile was at the southeast edge of town and made from the top of the grain elevator.
This image was made with a telephoto lens.
Donated items streamed in for days following the F-4 tornado that hit Spencer 10 miles west. Most items were not used and they were eventually sent to various organizations like the Slavation Army.
After having their home in Spencer destroyed by a F-4 tornado, they have decided to rebuild their commercial property into a home 1/2 mile south of town. This was once the Golden Pheasant Restaurant and Lounge. Legend has it that an artist traveling through sometime in the 1950s painted the scenic mural on the wall in exchange for several days stay in the adjoining motel. I tried to talk Dave into letting the mural remain in what would become their living room. Consideration was given but the mural fell to the Twedts' hammers the following week. Over the month of July, the Twedts and I filled several dumpster loads in the gutting process of this property.
Dave is watchful of gathering storm clouds.
The Twedts and I used to take a daily cruise through town as a way to take a break from working on their home. Dave called these little rides into town as "dress codes" or "inspecting the dress code" out of a tongue-in-cheek poke at the recent building code enforcements that followed the tornado. Dave was very vocal about the local politics.
They had been cruising around Spencer one day in mid-July and saw it laying near the monument that had been placed to remember the Spencer School.
The Twedts are rebuilding what once was the Golden Pheasant Restaurant and Lounge. Dave bought this property less than one mile south of Spencer in 1986, several years before they bought a home in Spencer Proper.
This print was made from two negatives printed consecutively.
The Twedts and I were on our way to burn trash at the end of the property. Mary is looking north towards Spencer.
5 days after a F-4 tornado destroyed 75% of the town organized volunteers then cleaned recovered items and set them on tables in the McCook County High School gym. The clothes that had been recovered were taken to the Springfield State Prison near Yankton where they were laundered in 200 pound capacity machines. Other items were cleaned and sorted by local organizations. I saw several people, including Dave and Mary, pick up and examine items that had been theirs prior to the tornado, then return them to the table. Dave said, "Some things are better left alone..." Upon walking into the gym for the first time, Nancy Webb said, "This is worse than the tornado." Many folks stood over the tables that had been covered with photographs from a period of at least 100 years and wept openly. It was the most powerful photo exhibit I had ever witnessed.
Mary is wrapped in a quilt made by her grandmother. The Twedts and I were in the McCook Central High School gym where all the items recovered after the tornado by volunteers had been set out. There were 7-8 tables of nothing but photographs. The quilt and these photographs were among the many items that filled the gymnasium.
Clothing and objects that had been picked up by volunteers after the tornado were stacked on tables for Spencer residents. Over 5,000 volunteers combed Spencer on June 5, filling plastic bags with clothing, kitchen appliances, utensils, and many personal items. More than 7 tables were completely covered with carefully cleaned photographs. Mary is holding a quilt made by her grandmother.
There were 7 tables of photographs laid edge to edge.
This print was made from two negatives printed consecutively.
The Twedts had been without running water for 45 days following the tornado. The Twedts are now rebuilding commercial property into a home. The property was once the Golden Pheasant Restaurant and Lounge with several hotel rooms. Dave Twedt bought this property in 1986, several years before they bought their home in Spencer about 1/2 mile to the north. The Twedts and I filled the dumpster (right) more than 3 times with material during the "gutting" process. The Twedts lived in the camper trailer for 6 months while working on their home.
Kallie's father, Ed Rogers, dressed in white. Delphia's new home was built by South Dakota State Penitentiary inmates on site at the Springfield prison yard near Yankton. The interior is 768 sq ft, two bedrooms, one bath. Applicants must be 62 or older, or 18 with disability. The cost was $19,400, including delivery. Five of these homes were purchased in 1998/99 by families displaced by the tornado, three of which were placed in Spencer. Although Kallie and her parents moved to Michigan, Delphia said later, "Kallie is fifth generation Spencer."
The Webb's house in Spencer proper was destroyed after receiving heavy tornado damage on May 30, 1998. They decided to use the insurance money to rebuild the farmhouse.
Selenium toned gelatin silver print--two negatives printed consecutively.
McCook County, South Dakota--three miles north of Spencer.
They bought the wagon and later towed it home. I followed. The steel wheels made a wonderful noise rolling on the asphalt.
She and Dave passing the vacant lot where their house had been just a few months earlier in Spencer, South Dakota.
They are rebuilding commercial property to make their home about 1/2 mile south of Spencer, South Dakota. (Their home in Spencer was destroyed 5-30-98). This property was once "The Golden Pheasant", a restaurant/bar connected to several small hotel rooms.
She let him and Kara and Brandon (4 mo.) stay in the mobile home in Salem, South Dakota, while the Stones had their new home begin construction in Spencer.
Danny was the main canvas worker at Spencer Canvas in Mitchell.
Officiating is the Reverend Ward Satterly of Spencer, South Dakota. He lost his wife in the May 30th tornado. She ran upstairs to try and save their dog as the tornado approached. The dog survived, but she perished... Kara's twin sister, Sara, pictured at right (Maid of honor).
He was only one month old when the tornado hit. His mother, Kara Arends, hovered over him in the basement and looked up to see the house beginning to life off the foundation. Minutes later, the entire house was gone.
Lloyd Webb, left, and Nancy Webb holding Alexa Roth, the daughter of Vicki and Tony Roth... Vicky was a foster child who lived with the Webbs for many years.
While Nancy's parents were still living in the farmhouse, a small fire broke out. The smoke from the fire blackened the wall, leaving ghost images from ceramic birds that had been hung. Her parents left the farmhouse not long after the incident.
Lloyd, Nancy and Suzy lived in the camper trailer for several months, during construction.
The image on the left is a new downstairs bathroom/shower under construction. The image on the right is from an upstairs bedroom. The bookcase still holds books and toys from when Nancy, Myrta and Steve were children.
He was basically a runaway at this point, staying with friends, cutting school.
(He did a page spread on the Twedts for the June, 1998 issue, visiting them just days after the tornado hit.)
The intersection of South Dakota Highway 38 and County Road 431.
The hardwood flooring pieces were purchased at an auction that had featured many salvaged items from the closed Spencer School (several years prior).
A group of people from their church came to help do clean-up around the property.
This dinner was sponsored by local businesses a few days before Thanksgiving Day, 1998.
The home builder he hired abandoned the project completely the month before, leaving the Stones with more than $35,000 debt. In other words, essentially taking $35,000 from their pockets.
The Stone's original contractor abandoned him, leaving them with about $35,000 debt. Danny had to finish the house himself.
The builder he hired abandoned the job, leaving the Stones with more than $30,000 debt.
He taught me how to operate the backhoe and I got pretty good at it. However, two weeks later I accidently pulled up and severed the main power lines that had recently been buried (near the center of this image). I was digging a phone line and the hired electrician was the only other person there at the time. He said folks get killed doing that sort of thing. When Nancy came home later, I admitted my mistake. She laughed and said, "Don't worry about it! Lloyd does that sort of thing all the time." I held a flashlight late into the night while the electrician repaired it.
It eventually read: THE BIBLE SAYS ASK AND YOU SHALL RECEIVE SARIN SAYS BE BROKE, BE HUMILIATED, BEG, AND MAYBE WE'LL HELP WITH DONATED MONEY. SARIN (Spencer Area Recovery and Interfaith Network) was a faith-based organization headed by the Rev. Mark Dickson, pastor of the Sun Prairie Baptist Church near Salem, South Dakota. Nearly 1 million dollars was collected in donations and SARIN was responsible for distributing the funds--which they did mainly to those who were under (or not) insured. The Twedts felt this was unfair. Dave made this sign in December, 1998 and it was stolen from his property on Christmas Eve, 1998.
They are living in the garage area of the commercial property currently under re-construction. The "home" part of the building process will not be ready for several more weeks. They were nearly to their wit's end.
She and Dave are living in the garage area of the commercial property they are remaking into a home. The "home" part of the building is under construction. Here, they were surrounded by tools Dave used to rebuild cars. The sheet makes me think of a tornado.
In front of his and Mary's home on the corner of South Dakota Highway 38 and County Road 431.
Because the Twedts were well insured, like many others, SARIN helped those who were not insured--from the very beginning. Dave felt the money should have been distributed evenly. His sign was stolen on Christmas Eve, 1998. Two negatives printed consecutively.
She has loaned out the use of the mobile home to Danny, Kara and their toddler, Brandon, and Richard while their new home in Spencer is under construction ten miles away.
She was teasing him for all the times he got farm and family vehicles stuck in the mud and snow. Nancy's sister, Myrta, is center--Christmas tree in background. The stairwell in the farmhouse.
A dead and frozen cow carcass, lower right.
Behind him is the temporary cardboard door that closes onto the nails (right).
My father's 1981 VW pickup. I found the doll head on the ground at the Webb's.
We were going back to the Webb's farm after getting some furniture out of storage on a farm northeast of Spencer--some friends of the Webb's.
Heating elements were placed beneath. The farmhouse is on the land that her grandfather homesteaded.
Heating elements were placed beneath.
Suzy and Bridgette by the propane tank. At the farmhouse.
The concrete foundation (left) was part of the barn that had been destroyed by a tornado in 1969. The barn, Lloyd said, could be seen from Highway 38 nearly 4 miles away.
Out in the barn, on the farm. It was around 25 to 30 degrees that day in the barn.
Their marriage would begin to dissolve the following year. Three negatives printed consecutively.
The building no longer exists--it was condemned and razed the following year.
Unemployed and behind in his rent.
We were celebrating Nancy's 47th birthday (May 16).
This was Saturday, May 17, 2003 and we were celebrating Nancy's 47th birthday (May 16). The sink, to the left, was at one time down the hall from my Sioux Falls studio space. I used it when washing prints.
Lloyd was pulling ticks off Powder (the white dog) and Issac was smashing them. Richard Nixon, Nancy's dog, watches.
Five years to the day when a F-4 tornado destroyed most of Spencer, South Dakota (about 1/2 mile north of this location). Winds to 50 mph were reported in Sioux Falls on the day this photograph was made.
Katie's 4th birthday. In Al and Doris Westerman's backyard.
We are at Al and Doris Westerman's in Sioux Falls, South Dakota. The Westermans are Mary Twedt's parents, making them Peanut's great-grandparents. Mary is left, with Paityn over her shoulder.
Six years to the day from the Spencer tornado.
We were celebrating Peanut's 5th birthday (July 19). This was the same year Jessica divorced Kaitlyn's father, Jayson Fredricks.
Jessica is the only child of Dave and Mary Twedt.
Jessica and Tony Byre were married earlier that day in Brandon, South Dakota.
Dave and Mary were in the process of rebuilding a part of their roof that had been blown off the year before (Spencer can be seen in the distance).
Katy is looking out the window of what was once their grandfather's bedroom (Dave Twedt). Katy's 6th birthday.
The Reverend's wife was one of six deaths during the May 30, 1998 tornado... He married Kara and Danny Stone in September, 1998... A sign on the Parish Center's door advertised free lots to those who would build in Spencer.
The local firemen are competing with one another to see who can spray the barrel to the opposite end of the suspended rope.
About 1/2 mile south of Spencer, South Dakota, the intersection of South Dakota Highway 38 and McCook County Road 431.
(June Thompson and I lived 3 blocks away.)
Hillbilly golf is a game played with two golf balls attached by a string of 18 inch rope. Each player has a set of three, and they toss them one at a time to one of two "gates" set about 20 feet apart. When a flopping string of golf balls catches a rung and stays on or wraps itself around, points are awarded: 3 points for the top, 2 for the middle, 1 for the bottom. The player who gets 21 points first wins.
The pool had been part of the Golden Pheasant Restaurant and Lounge. The building Dave and Mary made into a home following the Spencer tornado on May 30, 1998. Image made with a handbuilt 8x10 camera, fitted with a 100 year old lens.
Mary has been hosting Home and Garden Parties in private homes, school fundraisers, etc, for a second income. 5x7 contact print from handmade, handheld camera.
His Junior League football team from Salem, South Dakota had just played their first competitive game of the season. The opposing, more experienced team won... Four years earlier, Brandon, his mother, Kara and his two younger sisters, Rebecca and Tiffany, were involved in a rollover accident about a mile from Spencer. He kicked out the window of the minivan and ran a 1/4 mile in stocking feet through the snow and ice to get help, essentially saving her life.
(Daughter, mother, Virgin Mary.)
Her father, Lloyd Webb, is in the doorway. (Suzy was adopted by the Webb's when she was a child. Lloyd and Nancy had several foster children come and go from their home. Jenna--not pictured--was their only biological child.)
We were taking a break between Suzy Webb's wedding and the reception to be held later that evening. This is the first time Nancy had seen Lloyd in two and a half years.
I had not seen Lloyd in nearly four years--about the time he and Nancy divorced. When this image was made, he was living in Sheldon, Iowa, an hour and a half from Sioux Falls and working in an ethanol plant. I once thought of him as my closest friend in South Dakota... Many people thought the tornado had hardly fazed Lloyd, and they were probably correct. But nobody in his family called and asked how he was in the weeks that followed the storm... This image was made the day Suzy Webb married her high school boyfriend, Mike... Lloyd had not been out to the farm in nearly three years. It was hard to know what he was thinking.
Later that evening they will attend Suzy and Mike's wedding reception in Salem, ten miles east. Nancy's grandfather, Tillotson, homesteaded this land shortly before South Dakota became a state in 1889.
We were in the stairwell landing of the farmhouse, about an hour after Suzy Webb's wedding.
From left to right: Jenna Webb and Craig; Nancy and Lloyd Webb; Alexa and DJ (Vicki's children); Mike and Suzy; Isaac (Jenna's son); Vicki and her husband; Derrick; and Myrta Wold, Nancy Webb's sister.
(I've been taking Peanut to and from her dance lessons since she was five years old.)
Thomas (in center with horn) has momentarily borrowed the horn from the boy standing next to him. This was about an hour before a church service was held on this floor to celebrate the old church and to plan a new one on the same location. The banner reads: On Him Alone We Build.
Close to 200 vehicles were crushed and hauled away by Bernie following the May 30 tornado.
The kids Chatterley knows are Rebecca Stone (far left), Paityn Fredricks (fourth from left), Kaitlyn Fredricks (eighth from left), Breyton Fredricks (next to Kaitlyn, front). Chad Mentle is the coach (wearing sunglasses). This image was shot at Spencer's ballfield is in the Northeast part of town.
This photograph was made with Chatterley's hand-made camera fitted with a 100 mm lens removed from a plastic camera.
The home in the center of the photograph belongs to Cookie Mentle. Her son Troy once owned the car in the driveway. Troy, Richard Stone, and another boy were fishing during the day of the May 30, 1998 tornado. They were in Troy's garage cleaning fish when Troy saw the tornado coming into town. He managed to get himself, Richard and the other boy into a storm cellar just seconds before the tornado passed over them. Richard Stone credits Troy for saving his life. Troy died the following Halloween weekend from liver failure due to excessive drinking. He was living an apartment in Sioux Falls, South Dakota. I spoke to him on the phone just a few days before. His name is present on the tornado memorial in town along with the six others who passed on May 30, 1998. The Stones' house is in the distance to the left.
This is one of two large trenches dug to accept the tornado damaged town following the May 30, 1998 tornado, June 1998
Founded in 1994, the Durham, North Carolina based Triangle Residential Options for Substance Abusers (TROSA) is a multi-year residential program that enables substance abusers to be productive, recovering individuals by providing comprehensive treatment, work-based vocational training, education, and continuing care. Chatterley's photographs document the program and its residents in the spring and summer of 2002. Consists of one 11x14 print, two 6x20 prints, and eleven 16x20 prints, all selenium-toned gelatin silver prints. Captions were created by the photographer; prints are in original order as received.
Series explores the intense work of sheep ranching during lambing season, with photographs taken by Chatterley near Greenough, Montana, United States, in the spring seasons of 2004 and 2005. The series focuses on rancher Judith Faye "Pachy" Burns, who ran the operation with the help of friends, daughters, shearers, and a migrant worker family from PerÃº. The photographer's own niece was also helping out at the time the series was shot. Pachy Burns passed away some years later. After her death, Chatterley visited her daughters, Bluesette Campbell and Piney Hardiman, and their father, in Red Lodge and Scotch Coulee, Montana, in 2013; there he took six more photographs, and recorded oral histories concerning Pachy Burns, her family, and her life as a rancher.
All of the 97 black-and-white selenium-toned prints measure 16x20 inches. Captions were created by the photographer.
Image is meant to be vertical.
Image is meant to be horizontal.
The second of six photographs in the series.
The third in a series of six photographs.
Number four in a series of six photographs.
Number five in a series of six photographs.
This is the number six photograph in a series of six.
Two negatives printed consecutively (one in the evening, the next in the morning).
Two prints that are not related to other series in this collection.
Photograph made with Chatterley's 1st handmade camera, a 5x7 aluminium camera painted red.
Consists of a publication on Asian migrant communities in N.C. containing Chatterley's work on Cambodian Americans, and five audio cassette tapes with interviews of Chatterley discussing his career as a documentary photographer. The interviews have been digitized and stored on a library server; listening copies must be made for access. Please consult with a reference archivist before coming to use this material.
The Greensboro Historical Museum mounted an exhibition from December 2003 to December 2005 entitled From Cambodia to Greensboro: Tracing the Journeys of New North Carolinians. 2003 marked the twentieth anniversary of the Cambodian community in Greensboro, North Carolina, and the exhibition and book traced the community's growth and the experiences of its population.
The papers of psychologist, radical feminist author, and professor Phyllis Chesler span the dates 1968-2001. For the most part, Chesler's original folder titles have been maintained throughout the collection. The collection is divided into the following series: Writings, Custody Speakout Project, Women and Health Organizations ,Personal and Professional Papers, International Committee for Women of the Wall ,On the Issues, and Chronic Fatigue Syndrome. Chesler's Writings are separated into subseries by titles of her published works, and comprise the bulk of the collection. These papers include research files, interviews, and chapter drafts for her books Women and Madness;Women, Money and Power;About Men; With Child; Mothers on Trial; Sacred Bond; and Letters to a Young Feminist. The detailed research files in the Writings Series also contain audiocassettes and selected transcripts of interviews conducted by Chesler in conjunction with her research on women and mental health, women's history, childbirth and pregnancy, child custody and surrogate mothers (particularly the "Baby M" controversy concerning Mary Beth Whitehead and the Stern family), and feminist concerns. The Writings Series includes Chesler's miscellaneous writings and provides insight into her personal and professional life through correspondence, manuscripts, and notes surrounding each work as well as clippings and records documenting her feminist activism. Materials related to Women of the Wall: Claiming Sacred Ground can be found in the International Committee for Women of the Wall Series. Chesler's complete writings from 1991 to the present, as well as selected archives of her writings from the 1970s and 1980s are available at her website, The Phyllis Chesler Organization.
The Personal and Professional Papers Series is subdivided into the following subseries:Teaching Material, which provides insight into Chesler's feminist activism and includes student evaluations and selected student papers for classes at the College of Staten Island and CUNY; Publicity Files, which contain reviews of Chesler's work as well as articles by and about her; Juvenilia, which documents Chesler's artistic and intellectual development through high school; People Files,Financial Papers, Correspondence, and Invitations. These latter four subseries document aspects of Chesler's personal and professional relationships and her family life. Among the major correspondents in the People Files Subseries are Carolyn Shaw Bell, Sheila Kaplan, Kate Millett, Tillie Olsen, Grace Paley, Adrienne Rich, Donna Shalala, Susan Sontag, and Gloria Steinem. The Custody Speakout Project Series and the Women and Health Organizations Series document Chesler's concern and activism for women's health and custody rights, while the International Committee for Women of the Wall Series documents Chesler's involvement in activism surrounding the right of women to pray at the Kotel with a Torah scroll, as well as her work as co-editor of the anthology Women of the Wall: Claiming Sacred Ground. The On The Issues Series contains correspondence, article and column drafts, pre-published and published issue files, financial materials, meeting notes, and other papers related to the publication of On The Issues, a quarterly feminist magazine. Chesler served as an editor-at-large for the magazine, and she correspondedfrequently and worked closely with its publisher and editor-in-chief, Merle Hoffman. The Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Series contains Chesler's research and drafts of writings on Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, also referred to by the acronyms CFS and CFIDS.
Many American feminists are represented in Chesler's personal and professional correspondence in the Writings Series as well as the People Files Subseries of the Personal and Professional Papers Series. The Invitations Subseries in that series documents Chesler's involvement in feminist, environmental, and other political events and protests. The Teaching Materials Subseries and the People Files Subseries contain correspondence, clippings, notes, and other miscellaneous materials related to individuals and institutions with which Chesler was in contact in the 1970s and 1980s. Much of the material in the People Files Subseries documents Chesler's personal and professional concerns following the publication of Women, Money and Power and prior to publication of About Men and With Child, with a particular emphasis on her relationships with other feminist writers and activists.
Chesler's professional literary career is documented in the Correspondence Subseries of the Personal and Professional Papers Series which focuses on Chesler's relationships with publishers, promotion for her books, and royalty statements related to Chesler's books. The Financial Papers Subseries also documents Chesler's business concerns and professional expenses. Further correspondence with publishers can be found in the research files of individual subseries within the Writings Series. The Women and Health Organizations Series,Custody Speakout Project Series, and the Invitations Subseries subseries of the Personal and Professional Papers Series provide information regarding the organizations supported by Chesler.
Chesler's attention to women's custody rights appears in the Writings Series within the Mothers on Trial Subseries. The bulk of Chesler's work on child custody is documented in the Custody Speakout Project Series which contains organizational files including proposals, resource lists, fundraising projects, speaker information and agenda files for the Custody Speakout Project.
The Writings Series is divided into subseries by the titles of Chesler's published works: Women and Madness;Women Money and Power;About Men;With Child;Mothers on Trial; Sacred Bond; and Letters to a Young Feminist. There is also a short subseries of Miscellaneous Writings.
The Women and Madness Subseries, 1969-1980, (bulk 1969-1971) is composed of Research files, Correspondence, Chapter Drafts, and Audiocassettes.
These files are primarily subject files, interview transcripts, statistical reports, and clippings. The folders maintain Chesler's original titles and are arranged alphabetically.
The bulk of the correspondence was received by Chesler after publication of Women and Madness, primarily from individuals relating their own experiences in therapy, requesting information or assistance, or offering their opinion of her work. The subseries maintains Chesler's original subject designations and is arranged alphabetically by folder title.
The typescripts, handwritten manuscripts, and notes in this subseries are arranged in chapter order with complete manuscripts filed at the end of the subseries. The folder titles reflect those established by Chesler except in cases where the folder title did not reflect the contents of the folder. In these cases each folder's contents were compared to the published version of the text in order to establish titles.
Audiocassettes of interviews conducted while researching Women and Madness, arranged alphabetically according to titles established by Chesler. Several tapes contain more than one interview.
Early edition of Women and Madness and two proof editions with substantial corrections and alterations.
The Women and Madness Subseries, 1969-1980, (bulk 1969-1971) is composed of interview transcripts, research files, audiocassettes, and chapter drafts.
Interview transcripts are labeled with the name of the person interviewed and are arranged alphabetically.
Research files primarily examine female psychology, attitudes to work, power, successful women, and attitudes toward money; they are arranged alphabetically.
Audiocassettes are arranged chronologically, and are labeled according to the person interviewed, the site of the interview, or the main subject of the interview. Undated materials are listed last.
This subseries is divided into four sections: Research Files, Audiocassettes and Tapes, Illustrations, and Typescripts. Chesler's folder titles have been retained throughout.
Predominantly consists of clippings and photocopies of articles, but also includes notes, bibliographies, and transcripts of interviews on male and female psychology, parent-child relations, sex roles, and sexual violence among other subjects. Arranged in alphabetical order by subject. Some audiocassettes and reel-to-reel tapes of various interviews by Chesler are housed at the end of this subseries.
Audiocassettes and reel-to-reel tapes of various interviews by Chesler, arranged chronologically. Undated materials appear at the end.
Photographs, photocopies, lists, captions, and permissions for illustrations for About Men. Includes illustrations and captions used in the book as well as those that were discarded. Arranged in alphabetical order.
Typescripts and some manuscript notes of individual chapters; complete typescript drafts of the book. Includes early versions of the book under the title Lovers and Warriors. Original folder titles, which roughly parallel chapter titles in the published work, have been retained. Original order of folders has been retained. Complete typescripts and proofs are at the end of the subseries.
Typescripts of various drafts of the book and two sets of proofs. Original arrangement has been retained. A group of some 50 audiocassettes from the 1970s is arranged at the end of this subseries. Many are untitled and are not necessarily related to With Child. The largest individual segment of these concerns an appearance with Margaret Mead in Cincinnati in 1977.
A group of some 50 audiocassettes from the 1970s and 1981. Many are untitled and are not necessarily related to With Child. The largest individual segment of these concerns an appearance with Margaret Mead in Cincinnati in 1977.
Includes the following subseries: Research Files, Transcripts, Audiocassettes, and Chapters.
Photocopies of articles, clippings, notes, and copies of court cases about child custody. Arranged in alphabetical order.
Transcripts of interviews with parents involved in custody cases. Arranged in alphabetical order. These overlap but do not exactly match the Audiocassettes subseries.
Audiocassettes of interviews about various court cases, filed in alphabetical order. These overlap with but do not exactly match the Transcripts subseries.
Typescripts and manuscripts of chapters, filed in chapter order according to the published work.
The Sacred Bond Subseries, 1986-1988, includes material for Chesler's 1987 book Sacred Bond: The Legacy of Baby M. Much of the material in this series documents Chesler's work with other feminist leaders as an activist in support of Baby M's birth mother, Mary Beth Whitehead. The Journal, Drafts, Class Transcripts, and Subject File sections within this subseries document the research, writing, and editorial process for Sacred Bond. The Trial Materials section contains materials documenting the custody battle for Baby M and the legal opinions of several organizations interested in the outcome of the case.
Chesler's journal entries, phone logs, and chronologies of events surrounding the Baby M surrogacy custody trial. Materials chronicle her involvement with groups protesting in support of the rights of Baby M's birth mother, Mary Beth Whitehead. Much of the material in this subseries relates directly to the Journal Chapter in Sacred Bond. Arranged in chronological order.
Transcripts of Chesler's lectures and in-class discussions from classes she taught during the Baby M trial. The issues covered in her classes include surrogacy, feminism, motherhood, and women's rights. Arranged chronologically.
Conferences attended by Chesler while involved in the Baby M trial and while researching Sacred Bond. Many were related to surrogacy and reproductive issues and were mentioned in the Journal Chapter of her book.
Trial briefs, including several amici curiae briefs filed in support of the rights of Mary Beth Whitehead; mental health reports filed by experts who testified during the custody trial as to Mary Beth Whitehead's suitability as a parent for Baby M; and copies of exhibits entered as evidence in the trial. The materials are arranged in alphabetical order using Chesler's folder titles.
Bound transcript of the Hintz trial, a surrogacy custody trial taking place in Iowa at approximately the same time as the Baby M trial and appeal. Arranged chronologically.
The materials in the subject files document Chesler's activism during the Baby M trial as well as the research performed for Sacred Bond. Issues covered in these files include adoption, surrogacy legislation, women's reproductive rights, and legal issues surrounding surrogacy. This section also contains many clippings documenting coverage of the Baby M trial and of other surrogacy and custody trials. The folders are arranged in alphabetical order primarily using Chesler's folder titles.
The Drafts document the writing, editorial, and publication process for Sacred Bond. Included are several early chapter drafts, one complete draft in chapter order, a proof copy of the manuscript, and fact checking materials. The folders are arranged in alphabetical order using Chesler's folder titles, except where an effort was made to keep chapter drafts arranged in chapter order.
The Committee for Mary Beth Whitehead was founded by Chesler during the "Baby M" trial as an agency to support the rights of Mary Beth Whitehead, "Baby M's" birth mother. The papers in this section chiefly document the administrative activities of this organization. The folders are arranged alphabetically.
These materials document efforts made to publicize the publication of Sacred Bond. The folders are arranged alphabetically using titles established by Chesler.
Audio recordings of interviews conducted by Chesler while researching Sacred Bond. Also included are recordings of general dictation and of speeches and presentations made by Chesler. Many of the tapes contain more than one interview. Audiocassette titles are taken from Chesler's labels.
Miscellaneous essays, stories, and other writings with feminist themes. Arranged alphabetically using Chesler's folder titles. Most writings are undated. Miscellaneous unidentified notes, manuscript pages, and other unidentified writings are arranged at the end of this subseries.
Contains organizational files including proposals, resource lists, fundraising, speaker information, and agenda files for Custody Speakout Project. Arranged alphabetically.
The Letters to a Young Feminist subseries contains drafts, clippings, audiotapes, research, and notes related to Chesler's book, Letters to a Young Feminist, published in 1997. There is also material related to this project and an article Chesler wrote with the same title in the On the Issues series. See box OTI10.
This box contains three audiocassette recordings of Chesler's interviews with teenagers. Tape labels read: Eli, Eva, and Ariel, 8/14/96; Jana, Dina, Coday, 8/15/96; and Ariel, Dan, and Josh.
Clippings, flyers, newsletters, and other publicity about various mental health, feminist, and artistic organizations. Contains a small amount of correspondence. Arranged in alphabetical order using Chesler's original folder titles.
The Teaching Material Subseries documents Phyllis Chesler's academic career and classroom teaching activities in various courses at City University of New York. The series includes her curriculum vitae, class lists and schedules, student evaluations, exams, and selected student papers for classes at the College of Staten Island and City University of New York. The series is arranged chronologically.
The materials in the Publicity subseries, ca. 1968-1985, document efforts to publicize and promote Phyllis Chesler's writings. They include published interviews with and biographical pieces about Phyllis Chesler, articles about feminist issues quoting Chesler, and published excerpts from her work. The materials in this subseries are arranged alphabetically using Chesler's original folder titles.
Artwork, writings, school work, and grade reports documenting Chesler's artistic and intellectual development through high school.
The People Files Subseries, ca. 1970-1989 (chiefly 1970s), contains correspondence, clippings, notes, and other miscellaneous materials related to individuals and institutions with whom and which Chesler was in contact during this period. Much of the material in the series documents Chesler's personal and professional concerns following the publication of Women, Money and Power and prior to publication of About Men and With Child, with a particular emphasis on her relationships with other feminist writers and activists. The folders are arranged by last name, except for the small number where Chesler's original folder title referred to an institution. These files are interfiled within the established alphabetical order, maintaining Chesler's original order.
The Personal and Financial Papers Subseries, 1970s-1980s, documents Chesler's business concerns, personal and professional expenses, and personal responsibilities.
The correspondence found in this subseries is chiefly professional, relating to Chesler's publishing efforts, promotion for her books, and organizations supported by Chesler or in which she had an interest. This subseries also includes some royalty statements and other miscellaneous financial materials related to several of Chesler's books. Material is arranged in alphabetical order according to Chesler's original folder titles.
The Invitations Subseries, 1979-1992, documents Chesler's support of the arts as well as her involvement in feminist, environmental, and political causes. The wide range of invitations that she received include events such as art openings, musical and theatre performances, book signings, and feminist and political fund raising events and protests. The series is arranged in chronological order.
The International Committee for Women of the Wall Series documents the work of the organization and the publication of the anthology Women of the Wall: Claiming Sacred Ground through the following subseries: Correspondence, Women of the Wall: Claiming Sacred Ground, Kotel Archive, Administrative Files, Media Files, and Audiocassettes. Original folder titles have been retained, though loose materials were labeled during processing.
Primarily includes printed email, but also includes letters, faxes, and messages from listservs such as the Israeli Feminist Forum, Women's Tefillah Network, and Masorti: Torah and News from the Masorti Movement. Arranged in approximate chronological order.
Includes proposals, budgets, drafts, materials related to photo permissions, and research files for sections authored by Chesler, as well as correspondence with publishers, contributors, and co-editor Rivka Haut. Additional correspondence related to the book can also be found in the Correspondence Subseries. Also includes an interview with Anat Hoffman on audiocassette.
Compiled prior to accession, the archive is divided into the following categories: Legal, Media, Publicity, Temporary, Internal Correspondence, External Correspondence, Writing, and Development/Fundraising. A printed inventory came with the collection and is in the first box. Materials are grouped according to categories outlined in the inventory, but do not follow the numerical order specified within categories.
Includes board meeting agendas and notes, newsletters, press releases, contact lists, and files related to the budget and fundraising.
Includes clippings of print media coverage related to Women of the Wall, some authored by members of the ICWOW.
Cassettes are listed below as labeled. An audiocassette interview with Anat Hoffman remains with materials for Women of the Wall: Claiming Sacred Ground. Audiocassettes can also be found in the Kotel Archives Subseries.
The On The Issues Series contains correspondence, article and column drafts, pre-published and published issue files, financial materials, meeting notes, and other papers related to the publication of On The Issues, a quarterly feminist magazine. Chesler served as an editor-at-large for the magazine, and she correspondedfrequently and worked closely with its publisher and editor-in-chief, Merle Hoffman.
The Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Series contains Chesler's research and drafts of writings on Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, also referred to by the acronyms CFS and CFIDS. There is also material related to Chronic Fatigue Syndrome in the On the Issues Series. See box OTI8.
Interview with activist Nikki Craft on WBAI radio, New York.
Collection contains two letters written by Lydia Maria Child, the first to artist William Tolman Carlton, and the second to Miss. Howland. The first letter, dated September 15th, 1863, concerns Carlton's painting "Waiting for the Hour", which currently hangs at the White House. Child thanks Carlton for a photograph of the painting that had been delivered to her nephew, George L. Stearns. Child's friend, John Greenleaf Whittier, wanted the painting presented to fellow abolitionist Charles Sumner. The second letter is a reply to Miss Howland, who inquired if Child had ever seen correspondence from the German writer Bettina Von Arnim. Child replies in the negative.
The collection of film advertisements and transcripts of Chinese documentary films and newsreels spans the years 1946 to 1985, although the bulk of the items in the collection are transcripts for the documentary films and newsreels from the Cultural Revolution, 1966-1976. It should also be noted that the dating of the 1946 item is questionable. All documents in the collection are in Chinese. The collection is arranged into the following series: Advertisements and Film Description Series, 1953-1966 and undated; Documentary and Newsreel Scripts Series, 1946 (?)-1985 and undated; Feature Filmscripts Series, undated; and Newspaper Clipping Scrapbook Series, 1950-1959 and undated. Topics include industry, agriculture, the economy, military matters, education, public health care, medicine and science, as well as political movements, foreign relations, cultural and sporting events. Most of the documentary filmscripts are short, focusing on a specific subject or event, whereas newsreel scripts are numbered sequentially within each year and cover multiple topics or events. During the Cultural Revolution, documentary films and newsreels were powerful and popular propaganda tools for patriotism, nationalism, Chairman Mao, the Communist Party, and socialist construction, and served political purposes.
In this collection, there is also a group of printed advertisements and other publicity for Chinese and foreign films, plays, opera, and local performances. This collection is valuable for studies of contemporary Chinese culture, the Cultural Revolution, history and politics, communist propaganda, and mass media.
Parts of this collection have been digitized and are available to the Duke University Community in the following database: Chinese Film and Newsreel Scripts from the Cultural Revolution Online
A separate searchable index is available at: Film title index of Chinese filmscript and advertisement collection
The collection was microfilmed for broader access in 2006, and the original master copies of the microfilm are in the final box of the collection.
Film advertisements and publicity materials for Chinese documentary films, Chinese feature films, and foreign films that were imported mostly from communist countries, such as Vietnam, North Korea, Romania, and Albania. They include summaries of the story, main characters, publicity topics, terms of use, text for blackboard postings or broadcasting, and discussion questions. Also includes some posters, performance schedules and programs for films, plays, opera, local performances, etc. Some of these have illustrations and screen shots. Arranged by title, then chronologically.
Film Director: 凌子风
Production Year: 1953
Film Director: 列奥尼达·瓦尔拉莫夫
Production Year: 1954
Film Director: 武兆堤、苏里
Production Year: 1955
Film Director: 林农、朱文顺
Production Year: 1955
Film Director: 谢晋
Production Year: 1955
Film Director: 石岚
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 亚历山大·伊万诺夫
Production Year: 1955
Film Director: G·D·桑蒂斯
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 尼古拉伊·萨尼施维里
Production Year: 1954/1956
Film Director: 李恩杰
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 伊琳
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 严寄洲
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 弗拉其米尔·西斯
Production Year: 1953/1955
Film Director: 桑弧
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 杨小仲
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 俞仲英
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 吴永刚
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 瓦尔孔宜·卓尔丹
Production Year: 1955
Film Director: 凌子风
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 方徨
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 马克·加罗来
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 伊琳
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: B·再芒
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 高衡
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 沙蒙、林杉
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: C·巴尔豪斯
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 石岚
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 雷巴阔夫
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 王映东、毛羽、马德昌、吴向之
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 马·弗利奇
Production Year: 1955
Film Director: 陈西禾、叶明
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 黄粲
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 吴天
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 周峰
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 诺伊尔·兰格里
Production Year: 1957
Film Director: 法布里·卓尔丹
Production Year: 1955
Film Director: 王岚
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: j·外斯
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 徐韬
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 葛鑫
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 白穆
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 张辛实
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 王逸
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 赵明
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 特伟
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 虞哲光
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 岳路
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 万超尘
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 徐秉铎
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 贝尔兰加·路易斯·加西亚
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 汉·牟列尔
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 岭范
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 瓦·克尔什卡
Production Year: 1955
Film Director: 郑准采
Production Year: 1954
Film Director: 瓦茨拉夫·格尔什卡
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 严寄洲，孙民
Production Year: 1957
Film Director: 陶金
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: S. · 斯克里舍
Production Year: 1957
Film Director: 柯恩拉· 渥路夫
Production Year: 1957
Film Director: 郑君里
Production Year: 1955
Film Director: 今井正
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 新藤兼人
Production Year: 1955
Film Director: 路易达肯
Production Year: 1955
Film Director: 哈默· 哈里姆
Production Year: 1955
Film Director: 王家乙
Production Year: 1957
Film Director: 顾而已
Production Year: 1957
Film Director: C·利萨尼
Production Year: 1954
Film Director: 新藤兼人
Production Year: 1953
Film Director: 王冰、冯毅夫
Production Year: 1957
Film Director: R· 诺瓦高维茨
Film Director: G· 列什
Film Director: 吴千吞
Production Year: 1957
Film Director: 王为一
Production Year: 1957
Film Director: 沈浮
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: J· 卡瓦列洛维奇
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: H· 科拉保夫，孟道夫
Production Year: 1955
Film Director: 左凡
Film Director: J· 谢克文斯
Film Director: 谢晋
Production Year: 1957
Film Director: 叶果诺夫
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 拉克 潘俩拉春，罗伯尔特 戈· 霍尔德
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 梭拉伯· 莫地
Film Director: 卡达· 斯
Film Director: 赵明
Production Year: 1957
Film Director: 杨小仲
Production Year: 1957
Film Director: 徐苏灵
Production Year: 1957
Film Director: P· 卡里涅斯库
Film Director: 刘国权
Production Year: 1957
Film Director: 戈多· 苏加迪
Film Director: 岑范
Production Year: 1957
Film Director: S·弗伊奇
Film Director: C·贾克
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 许珂
Film Director: K·伊林切夫
Film Director: E·吉甘
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: B·巴索夫
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 亚历山大·巴赛蒂
Film Director: J·杜德赛克，H· 泰尔洛瓦
Production Year: 1955
Film Director: 云·波比斯库·高波
Film Director: T·阿布拉德吉
Production Year: 1955
Film Director: W·什塔乌捷
Film Director: H·D·卡利尔
Film Director: M·卡拉托卓夫
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 刘国权
Production Year: 1957
Film Director: 成荫
Production Year: 1957
Film Director: D·李恩
Film Director: G·克列茵
Film Director: L·拉诺吉
Film Director: 孙瑜、蒋君超
Production Year: 1957
Film Director: 于彦夫
Production Year: 1957
Film Director: 武兆堤
Production Year: 1957
Film Director: 朱克、江泓
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 马·海皮克
Film Director: E·司徒尔利斯
Production Year: 1955
Film Director: 严寄洲
Production Year: 1957
Film Director: G·托比阿斯
Film Director: 朱文顺、德·广布道尔基
Production Year: 1957
Film Director: 高鲁布
Film Director: 鲁韧
Production Year: 1957
Film Director: 天然、傅超武
Production Year: 1957
Film Director: 颇列斯阔特
Film Director: 王家乙、罗歇·比果
Film Director: 陈怀皑
Production Year: 1958
Film Director: G·菲利浦，J·伊文恩
Film Director: C·柯洛索夫
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: Z·法布里
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: M·凯莱蒂
Production Year: 1957
Film Director: 苏里
Production Year: 1958
Film Director: 桑弧
Production Year: 1958
Film Director: A·M·拉本拿尔特
Film Director: M·巴尔契克
Film Director: 于彦夫
Production Year: 1958
Film Director: B·巴尔涅特
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 斯·杜多夫
Film Director: 谢添、桑夫 
Production Year: 1958
Film Director: 爱弥略·番南台斯
Film Director: 严寄洲、郝光
Production Year: 1958
Film Director: J·瓦伊斯
Film Director: C·乌当·拉哈
Film Director: V·伊里乌
Film Director: 黄祖模
Production Year: 1958
Film Director: 林扬
Production Year: 1958
Film Director: 王逸
Production Year: 1958
No. 2
Film Director: 刘沛然
Production Year: 1958
No. 21
Film Director: 张天赐、啸马、石灵
Production Year: 1958
No. 32
Film Director: 凌子风
Production Year: 1958
No. 37
Film Director: C·尤特凯维奇
Production Year: 1957
No. 42
Film Director: G·阿其门
No. 53
Production Year: 1958
No. 54
Film Director: 雷震霖
Production Year: 1958
No. 57
Production Year: 1958
No. 69
Film Director: 毛羽
Production Year: 1958
No. 77
Film Director: B·斯库伊宾
No. 82
Film Director: 桑弧
Production Year: 1958
No. 188
Film Director: B·科尔什萨勃林
Production Year: 1958
No. 165
Film Director: 刘群  
Production Year: 1960
Film Director: 郝光、张岚
Production Year: 1960
Film Director: 曾未之
Production Year: 1960
No. 167
No. 168
No. 174
No. 178
No. 186
Film Director: 伊琳
Production Year: 1960
No. 187
Film Director: 李舒田、李昴
Production Year: 1961
No. 191
Production Year: 1959
No. 194
No. 199
No. 200
No. 201
No. 203
No. 207
Film Director: 胡小峰
Production Year: 1959
No. 217
Film Director: 陈岗
Production Year: 1960
No. 223
Film Director: 谢晋
Production Year: 1961
No. 229
Film Director: 邬强、徐景达
Production Year: 1961
No. 234
Film Director: 王苹、袁先
Production Year: 1960
No. 339
Production Year: 1961
No. 339
Production Year: 1961
No. 343
Film Director: 刘琼
Production Year: 1961
No. 356
No. 359
Film Director: 楚原
Production Year: 1960
No. 360
Film Director: 阿布时依托夫
No. 363
Film Director: 舒里囊
Production Year: 1960
No. 366
Film Director: 凌子风、侣朋
Production Year: 1961
No. 367
Film Director: B·伊万诺夫
No. 368
Production Year: 1960
No. 369
Film Director: X·皮斯科夫
No. 370
Film Director: 姜兴植
Production Year: 1960
No. 371
Film Director: C·萨姆桑诺夫
Production Year: 1960
No. 372
Film Director: 孙武彪
Production Year: 1960
No. 374
Film Director: M·什维茨尔
No. 375
Film Director: E·费南台兹
No. 376
Film Director: 克劳斯·乔其
No. 377
Film Director: 贝里也夫
Production Year: 1959
Film Director: 王苹，袁先
Production Year: 1960
Film Director: 凌子风、侣朋
Production Year: 1961
Film Director: L·考门西尼
Film Director: B·道尔芒
Production Year: 1961
Film Director: J·卡尼巴尔，S·斯卡尔斯基
Film Director: 陈冀
Film Director: 蒋伟
Film Director: K·巴巴什金
Production Year: 1960
Film Director: B·莫尔甘什切伦
Production Year: 1959
Film Director: 苏伟
Production Year: 1961
No. 290
Film Director: 林扬
Production Year: 1961
No. 379
Film Director: 瓦西亚耶夫
Production Year: 1961
No. 380
Production Year: 1958
No. 382
Film Director: 洛尔特列尔
No. 384
Film Director: 采哈诺夫斯基，采哈诺夫斯卡娅
No. 385
Film Director: 奥泽罗夫
Production Year: 1959
No. 386
No. 389
Film Director: 于彦夫
Production Year: 1961
No. 391
Film Director: 鲁韧
Production Year: 1962
Film Director: B·席列茨科娃
Film Director: K·霍夫曼
Film Director: 崔嵬、陈怀皑
Production Year: 1961
Film Director: 全东民
Film Director: 约郭帕
Film Director: H·古利亚
Film Director: 李句秀
Production Year: 1962
Film Director: M·德莱干
Film Director: B·斯捷潘诺夫
Production Year: 1961
Film Director: 侬斯特万
Film Director: 润马诺夫斯基
Film Director: H·阿卡尼
Film Director: E·斯卡奇柯
Production Year: 1961
Film Director: M·莎卡里亚士
No. 3
Film Director: 丛硕文
Production Year: 1962
No. 4
Film Director: 周彦、陈冀
Production Year: 1962
No. 6
Film Director: 郑小秋
Production Year: 1962
No. 8
Film Director: 蒋伟
Production Year: 1962
No. 9
Film Director: 周彦、陈冀
Production Year: 1962
No.10
Film Director: 杜生华
Production Year: 1962
No. 13
Film Director: 王为光
Production Year: 1962
No. 15
Film Director: 陈冀
Production Year: 1962
No. 8
Film Director: M·贝尔纳得
No. 12
Film Director: 刘别恩、依昂契夫
No. 16
Film Director: 达那依诺夫
No. 16
Film Director: 谭友六
Production Year: 1962
No. 5
Film Director: 恩德里·凯科
Production Year: 1961
No. 6
Film Director: M·叶维茨尔
Film Director: 张客
Production Year: 1962
Film Director: 严恭
Production Year: 1962
Film Director: E·马尔敦
Film Director: J·波尔丁
Film Director: 朴鹤
Production Year: 1962
Film Director: B·姆契卡
Film Director: A·库罗奇金、A·托尔布津
Film Director: 千尚仁
Film Director: 孙武彪
Film Director: 杨小仲
Production Year: 1963
Film Director: 万古蟾
Production Year: 1963
No. 4
Film Director: 郑小秋
Production Year: 1963
No. 11
Film Director: 陈冀
Production Year: 1963
No. 17
Production Year: 1963
Film Director: 石梅音
Production Year: 1963
Film Director: 王君壮
Production Year: 1963
Film Director: 葛德、鲍肖然
Production Year: 1963
Film Director: 郭鸿章
Production Year: 1963
Film Director: Z·古斯尼斯基
Film Director: 李恩杰、马尔路
Production Year: 1963
Production Year: 1963
Production Year: 1964
Film Director: 岑范
Production Year: 1964
Production Year: 1963
Production Year: 1964
Film Director: 华纯
Film Director: M·椰果诺夫
Production Year: 1943
Production Year: 1964
Film Director: 杨杰亭
Production Year: 1964
Film Director: 郝玉生、恩德列·凯戈
Production Year: 1964
Film Director: 全云峰、尹孝卓
Production Year: 1963
Film Director: 许珂、马尔路
Production Year: 1964
Film Director: 武兆堤
Production Year: 1964
Film Director: 朱角
Production Year: 1964
No. 2
Film Director: 沈沉
Production Year: 1964
No. 5
Film Director: K·马尔顿
No. 7
No. 12
Film Director: 丛硕文
Production Year: 1964
No. 15
Film Director: 韩韦
Production Year: 1964
No. 24
Film Director: 陈冀
Production Year: 1964
No. 25
Film Director: 王为光、殷培龙
Production Year: 1964
Film Director: 石梅音
Production Year: 1964
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 王君壮
Production Year: 1964
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 王逸
Film Director: 谢铁骊
Production Year: 1961
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 李甸秀
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 李昴
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 殷子
Production Year: 1965
Production Year: 1965
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 江浩
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 石梅音
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 郝光
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 郝光
Film Director: 林扬
Production Year: 1959
Film Director: 张辛实
Production Year: 1959
Film Director: 武兆堤
Production Year: 1959
Film Director: 严恭、苏里
Production Year: 1957
Film Director: 沈浮
Production Year: 1959
Film Director: 雷铿
Production Year: 1958
Film Director: 王苹、黄宗江
Production Year: 1957
Film Director: 方徨
Production Year: 1958
Film Director: 史文炽
Production Year: 1958
Film Director: 李恩杰
Production Year: 1959
Film Director: 林农
Production Year: 1958
Film Director: 华纯、任鹏远
Production Year: 1979
Film Director: 阿妍
Production Year: 1960
Film Director: 章超群、岳路、万超尘
Production Year: 1959
Film Director: 虞哲光、陈正鸿
Production Year: 1959
Film Director: 虞哲光
Production Year: 1959
Film Director: 杨采
Film Director: 王文彬
Film Director: 黄佐临
Production Year: 1956
Film Director: 胡进庆
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 崔嵬、陈怀皑
Production Year: 1963
Film Director: 农益达
Production Year: 1964
Film Director: 朴学
Production Year: 1974
Film Director: 朱东月
Film Director: 米尔恰·德勒甘
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Film Director: 裴庭鹤
Production Year: 1971
Film Director: 吴丙浩
Production Year: 1971
Film Director: 季·阿纳格诺斯蒂
Film Director: 今欣、尹一青
Film Director: 于彦夫
Production Year: 1974
Film Director: 伊琳
Production Year: 1966
Film Director: 广布道尔基
Production Year: 1976
Film Director: 汤化达、汤晓丹
Production Year: 1974
Film Director: 林扬、王好为
Production Year: 1976
Film Director: 谢添、陈方千、徐枫
Production Year: 1961
Film Director: 颜碧丽、包起成
Production Year: 1976
Film Director: 魏荣
Production Year: 1976
Film Director: 颜碧丽、沈浮、武珍年
Production Year: 1976
Film Director: 成荫、王炎
Production Year: 1974
Film Director: 景慕逵、张勇手
Production Year: 1976
Film Director: 傅杰
Production Year: 1976
Film Director: 中叔皇
Production Year: 1975
Film Director: 汤晓丹、天然、于本正
Production Year: 1976
Film Director: 林农
Production Year: 1973
Film Director: 沙丹、郑国权
Production Year: 1974
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Film Director: 胡进清、周克勤
Production Year: 1976
Film Director: 方润南
Production Year: 1976
Film Director: 唐澄、邬强
Production Year: 1974
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1961
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Film Director: 胡进庆
Production Year: 1974
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Film Director: 俞仲英
Production Year: 1975
Film Director: 武珍年
Production Year: 1975
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Film Director: 刘璐
Film Director: 于彦夫、曾未之
Film Director: 李文虎
Production Year: 1975
Film Director: 王苹、黄宝善
Production Year: 1976
Film Director: 邓一民、徐纪宏
Production Year: 1976
Film Director: 梁廷铎
Production Year: 1976
Film Director: 李文虎、景幕逵
Production Year: 1975
Film Director: 吕振民
Transcripts and shot lists for newsreels and documentary films. These focus on specific subjects, events or personal stories. Scripts in boxes 2 and 3 are arranged by subject, then chronologically within each subject. The date on the earliest item in box 3 is questionable. There are also a few special issues. For example, a special issue in February 1966 is entitled: Chairman Mao's Good Student- Jiao Yulu. Scripts for Xin Wen Jian Bao in box 4 are arranged by number and year.
Film Director: 李堃
Production Year: 1959
Film Director: 李堃
Production Year: 1959
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1959
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1960
Production Year: 1960
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1958
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1961
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1961
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1961
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1961
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1961
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1964
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1964
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 八一电影制片厂译制
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1966
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1966
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1966
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1967
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1967
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1972
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1973
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1973
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1974
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1974
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1975
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1976
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1977
Film Director: 沈阳市电化教育馆
Production Year: 1978
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1978
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1978
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1978
Film Director: 八一电影制片厂
Film Director: 珠江电影制片厂
Film Director: 北京电影制片厂
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1961
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1961
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1961
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1961
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1961
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1964
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂译制
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1966
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1972
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1973
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1973
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1973
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1973
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1973
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1973
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1973
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1973
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1973
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1974
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1974
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1974
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1974
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1975
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1975
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1975
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1975
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1975
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1975
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1976
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1976
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1976
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1977
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1977
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1964
Film Director: 八一电影制片厂
Production Year: 1964
Film Director: 八一电影制片厂
Production Year: 1964
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 八一电影制片厂
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 八一电影制片厂
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 八一电影制片厂
Production Year: 1966
Film Director: 八一电影制片厂
Production Year: 1966
Film Director: 八一电影制片厂
Production Year: 1966
Film Director: 八一电影制片厂
Production Year: 1966
Film Director: 八一电影制片厂
Production Year: 1966
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1966
Film Director: 八一电影制片厂
Production Year: 1966
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1966
Film Director: 上海电影制片厂
Production Year: 1976
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1977
Film Director: 八一电影制片厂
Production Year: 1977
Film Director: 八一电影制片厂
Production Year: 1979
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1984
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Film Director: 八一电影制片厂译制
Film Director: 八一电影制片厂
Film Director: 八一电影制片厂
Film Director: 八一电影制片厂译制
Film Director: 八一电影制片厂
Film Director: 上海天马电影制片厂
Production Year: 1959
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1960
Film Director: 王映东、白国柱
Production Year: 1960
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1960
Film Director: 高仲朋
Production Year: 1960
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1960
Film Director: 白国柱、王映东
Production Year: 1960
Film Director: 吴本立、王映东
Production Year: 1960
Film Director: 北京电影制片厂
Production Year: 1960
Film Director: 刘文渺
Production Year: 1960
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1961
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1961
Film Director: 铁道部展览处
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1966
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1966
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1966
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1966
Film Director: 八一电影制片厂
Production Year: 1966
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1966
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1966
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1972
Film Director: 上海电影制片厂
Production Year: 1972
Film Director: 上海科学教育电影制片厂
Production Year: 1973
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1974
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1974
Film Director: 上海电影制片厂
Production Year: 1975
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1976
Film Director: 峨嵋电影制片厂
Production Year: 1977
Film Director: 北京科学教育电影制片厂
Production Year: 1978
Film Director: 峨嵋电影制片厂
Production Year: 1978
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Film Director: 峨嵋电影制片厂
Film Director: 八一电影制片厂
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1960
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1960
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1960
Film Director: 陈健
Production Year: 1960
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1960
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1961
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1961
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1964
Film Director: 长春电影制片厂
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 珠江电影制片厂
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1966
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1966
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1966
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1966
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1966
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1967
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1971
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1972
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1972
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1972
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1973
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1973
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1973
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1973
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1973
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1973
Production Year: 1974
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1975
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1975
Film Director: 农业电影制片厂
Production Year: 1975
Film Director: 农业电影制片厂
Production Year: 1975
Film Director: 湖北新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1977
Film Director: 八一电影制片厂
Production Year: 1977
Film Director: 西安电影制片厂
Production Year: 1978
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1978
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1978
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1978
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Film Director: 徐肖冰、沈容、肖树琴、陈纯烈
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1960
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1961
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1973
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1972
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1972
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1973
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1973
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1973
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1975
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1977
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1980
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1985
Film Director: 上海电影译制厂译制
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1946?
Film Director: 何钟辛
Production Year: 1960
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1960
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1973
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1973
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1973
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1976
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1960
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1961
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1972
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1974
Film Director: 珠江电影制片厂
Production Year: 1975
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1975
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1960
Film Director: 中央新闻纪录电影制片厂
Production Year: 1977
Film Director: 上海科学教育电影制片厂
Production Year: 1969
Filmscripts for 12 Chinese and foreign feature films.
Production Year: 1958
Film Director: 纳赛尔·克塔里
Film Director: 阿·加布里也良
Film Director: 罗·昂里科
Film Director: 孙敬、郭阳庭
Production Year: 1960
Film Director: 詹相持、韩小磊
Production Year: 1979
Film Director: 谢晋、颜碧丽、梁廷铎
Production Year: 1975
Film Director: 桑弧
Production Year: 1972
Film Director: 汤化达、王秀文
Production Year: 1977
Film Director: 任旭东
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 许珂
Production Year: 1957
Film Director: 吴培民
Production Year: 1982
Film Director: 刘春霖、陈方千
Production Year: 1977
Film Director: 成荫
Production Year: 1970
Film Director: 钱运达
Production Year: 1964
Film Director: 谢铁骊
Production Year: 1980
Film Director: 李昴
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 王家乙
Production Year: 1959
Film Director: 董兆琪
Production Year: 1964
Film Director: 邓逸民、沙洁、刘琼
Production Year: 1981
Film Director: 张骏祥、顾而已
Production Year: 1962
Film Director: 刘国权
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 阿达、朱康林
Production Year: 1984
Film Director: 李俊、李昴
Production Year: 1974
Film Director: 林岚
Production Year: 1966
Film Director: 胡进庆、邬强
Production Year: 1972
Film Director: 魏荣
Production Year: 1960
Film Director: 刘欣
Production Year: 1975
Film Director: 周伟
Production Year: 1960
Film Director: 林农
Production Year: 1973
Film Director: 苏乐慈
Production Year: 1978
Film Director: 谭友六
Production Year: 1965
Film Director: 钱运达 葛桂云
Production Year: 1980
Film Director: 郭筠
Production Year: 1959
Film Director: 俞仲英
Production Year: 1965
Scrapbook containing film reviews (many on foreign films), publicity material, articles on film production and distribution, and reports on film conferences, festivals, and award ceremonies.
8 silver duplicate microfilm reels of the collection.
Records and business correspondence of a general merchant of Weldon, N.C., together with daybooks (1880-1918) and ledgers (1878). Also includes a letter from Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Va., concerning a son in college; and a letter from an instructor at Oak Ridge Military Institute, Guilford Co., N.C. (1917).
Please consult with a reference archivist for the locations of these manuscript volumes.
The Jane Clarke-Owen Papers consist primarily of Dr. Clarke-Owen's letters to her two daughters and other family members, and letters from each daughter to Dr. Clarke-Owen and other individuals. The bulk of the letters were written between 1886 and 1919 and document the domestic lives, financial difficulties, and relationships of the women in the Clarke family. The letters written by Dr. Clarke-Owen document her years as a medical student in Chicago, her struggles in the medical profession, and her domestic life. Therese Clarke's correspondence chronicles her life as a working actress in the early 20th century and her domestic life. The Laura Clarke letters are primarily concerned with domestic and financial matters and her prospects as a sales clerk for various shops and department stores on the east coast. Miscellaneous correspondence includes letters from family members and friends to all three women, and a small selection of the business correspondence of Thaddeus "Tom" Clarke. The collection also includes clippings and programs of the performances of Marguerite Urquhart, the stage name employed by Therese Clarke, and a photograph of Jane Clark-Owen from 1870. Miscellaneous papers in the collection include undated and unaddressed cards, notes, and letters.
The period of 1886 to 1890 is heavily documented by letters written by Jane Clarke-Owen while she was in medical school and corresponding regularly with her daughters. The period of 1901 to 1904 is also heavily documented by the letters sent from Therese and Laura Clarke to Jane Clarke-Owen. There are few letters written by Jane Clarke-Owen after 1901 available in the collection.
The letters found in this Subseries document Jane Clarke-Owen's life from 1869-1914.The bulk of this Subseries consists of the letters from Jane Clarke-Owen to her two daughters, written while a student at Women's Medical College in Chicago between 1886-1889. Her descriptions of her lectures, clinical routines, and professors provide a vivid picture of her life as a medical student. She also routinely discusses family business and her social life in Chicago during this period. Her later correspondence discusses family business, financial matters, and her struggles in the medical profession. The collection also includes Clarke-Owen's letters to her mother, Marie Furlong, from the period of her life prior to attending medical school; letters to her sister in law, Mary Parks; and early letters to her first husband, Thaddeus Clarke.
The letters from Therese Clarke found in this collection were written primarily to Jane Clarke-Owen between 1893 and 1912. The bulk of the letters were written between 1900 and 1905, while she was working as an actress and traveling with various stock companies in the south and midwest. Therese Clarke often signed these letters using her stage name, Marguerite Urquhart. In her letters, she discusses her job prospects, living arrangements, and financial difficulties. She also often discusses the actors and actress with whom she is working, making specific references to such noted actors as Edwin Booth, Anne Sutherland, Richard Mansfield, Mrs. Fiske, Eleanora Duse, Sir Henry Irving, and Erroll Dunbar. She discusses similar matters in the letters to her sister from this same period. The collection also includes a small number of her letters to her husband, Will Dougherty, written in 1919.
The Laura Clarke Correspondence Subseries spans the period form 1893 to 1912. The primary recipient of these letters was her mother, but the collection also includes letters to her sister from 1904 and a small collection of correspondence with other individuals. In her letters she discusses family matters, social relations, job prospects, and work life. She often expresses concern for her mother's health and financial situation.
The Miscellaneous Correspondence Subseries includes letters from Dr. Jane Clarke-Owen's relatives of and other individuals to Dr. Clarke-Owen, Therese Clarke, and Laura Clarke. Also included is a small sample of business correspondence relating to the lumber industry and addressed to Thaddeus Clarke.
The Clippings Series includes assorted newspaper clippings for plays in which Therese Clarke performed. These chiefly undated clippings refer to her under her stage name of Maguerite Urquhart. Also included in this series are two programs for performances at the Harmeling Opera House of "The Vendetta" and "What Happened to Brown," and featuring Marguerite Urquhart in supporting roles
The miscellaneous papers included in this collection consist of undated and unaddressed correspondence, greeting cards, wedding invitations, and other printed ephemera. Also included in this series is a broadside advertising Dr. Jane Clarke-Owen's convalescent home and a letter to Clarke-Owen's mother, Dr. Marie Furlong, from the superintendent of the National Cemetery in Marrieta, Georgia discussing the upkeep of her son's grave. A single of photograph taken of Jane Clarke-Owen at the age of sixteen is included in this series.
This box includes a small amount of correspondence (Acc. 2011-0153) from "Jennie," believed to be a nickname of either Jane or her sister, written to Marie J. Parks, MD. These letters were written while Jennie was a student at Steubenville Academy from March 1871 through December 1872. Additional information about this portion of the collection is available in Box 4.
This collections consists of professional correspondence, writings, teaching material, research files, and some personal and legal materials from Clower's career, which stretched from 1949-1999.
His correspondence includes many prominent names of 20th century economics: Milton Friedman, John R. Hicks, Peter Howitt, Arjo Klamer, David Laidler, Axel Leijonhufvud, Don Patinkin, Joan Robinson, Paul Samuelson, and others. Duke University faculty are represented by Craufurd Goodwin, Neil DeMarchi, and Roy Weintraub. Also included are Moses Abramowitz, Jess Benhabib, Clive Bull, David Colander, Paul Davidson, Frank Hahn, John Haltiwanger, Tom Hazlett, Roger Kormendi, Larry Kotlikoff, Robert Solow, and Sir Alan Walters.
The collection also includes manuscript files of Clower's writings, ranging from notes and fragments to drafts and copies of published articles. Topics include monetary theory, price theory, price determination, employment, banking, disequilibrium, stock-flow analysis, Keynesian economics/macroeconomics, Say's Law, and mathematical economics. Many of the writings are untitled typescripts and fragments of notes.
In addition, the collection includes writings from Clower's father, F. W. (Fay Walter) Clower, also an economist; two copies of John Maynard Keynes's The General Theory of Employment Interest and Money, annotated by Clower; six audiocassettes with dictated letters; teaching material from several classes taught by Clower throughout his career; and legal transcripts of 1979 court cases and hearings in which he testified.
Includes notes, fragments, drafts, and copies of published articles. Also includes Clower's book chapters and reviews, public lectures, and responses to other authors. Some of the titles include accompanying correspondence and edits by Clower and his collaborators. Arranged alphabetically by title, with untitled and loose excerpts are at the end.
Draft of essay for Tamiment Social and Economic Institute contest.
Typed draft.
Handwritten draft excerpt.
Drafts of chapter abstracts.
Offprint and typed drafts.
Offprint.
Preface and introduction drafts.
Various reviews written by Clower about other authors' work.
Handwritten draft and models.
Typed draft.
Typed draft.
Outline of book.
Draft and notes.
Review of Clower's contribution.
Published pages.
Typed and handwritten draft excerpts.
Offprint.
Typed excerpt with annotations.
Clower's school papers.
Typed draft.
Typed draft.
Photocopy of published pages.
Offprints.
Typed draft and photocopies.
Typed draft with annotation.
Journal issue and offprint.
Drafts of various versions.
Transcript and correspondence.
Outline and drafts from the book.
Offprint of article.
Outlines.
Carbon copy.
Draft.
Lecture notes.
Offprint.
Photocopied draft.
Draft and references.
Draft.
Handwritten draft excerpt.
Handwritten draft excerpt.
Draft.
Speech with edits.
Offprints.
Original article (by Herschel Grossman) and Clower's response, drafts.
Draft, copies.
NSF Proposal.
Draft with edits.
Drafts.
Drafts.
Draft.
Drafts with edits, correspondence.
Copy and correspondence.
Draft, never published.
Draft excerpt.
Handwritten draft.
Offprint.
Outline.
Outline draft.
Drafts with edits.
Drafts with edits, correspondence.
Draft.
Draft.
Photocopy of published article.
Draft.
Draft with edits.
Drafts, correspondence.
Offprint.
Photocopy of published article.
Transcript.
Draft.
Draft.
Draft and photocopy of published chapter.
Draft excerpt.
Research grant application.
Draft of conference paper.
Draft excerpt.
Handwritten draft excerpt.
Typescript of book.
Drafts with edits.
Offprint.
Draft.
Draft with edits.
Draft.
Photocopy of published article.
Offprint.
Introduction draft.
Draft.
Drafts with edits.
Draft excerpt.
Photocopy of draft with edits.
Draft.
Robert Clower's first publication.
Letter to Professor Letiche.
Abstract.
Draft.
Draft excerpt.
Pamphlet.
Outline.
Draft.
Correspondence.
Drafts and excerpts of book.
Copy with annotations from 1989.
Draft of Chapter 2 (book unknown).
Draft of Chapter 6 (book unknown).
Draft of preface.
Review of A Monetary History of the United States by Friedman and Schultz.
Drafts and notes.
Correspondence and outline.
Draft and offprint.
Afterword of book.
Draft.
Working paper.
Draft with edits.
Draft.
Text files.
Photocopy of published article.
Draft.
Draft with annotations.
Draft with edits.
Drafts, notes.
Journal issue.
Drafts.
Draft excerpt.
Handwritten drafts.
Draft and rejection letter.
Symposium publication.
Photocopied drafts.
Drafts.
Drafts with edits.
Draft excerpt with edits.
Draft.
Draft.
Final report.
Correspondence, notes.
Draft with annotations from 1999.
Draft.
Foreword.
Proofs and edits.
Drafts and models.
Offprint.
Outline draft.
Untitled book draft.
Drafts of book, one with comments.
Drafts, "false starts," notes.
Draft.
Draft.
Drafts of lectures in Mexico.
Chapter drafts, notes.
Photocopied draft with edits.
Draft.
Draft with edits.
Draft.
Draft with edits.
Draft and published version.
Prepared for the Transportation Center at Northwestern University.
Drafts of various versions.
Lecture outline.
Photocopy of published article.
Handwritten draft.
Journal issue.
Photocopy of published article.
Draft.
Draft with edits.
Draft.
Offprint.
Research proposal.
Drafts.
Lecture notes.
Drafts, notes, photocopy of published versions.
Draft excerpt.
Notes.
Offprint with annotations.
Draft.
Photocopy of published article.
Journal issue.
Offprint.
Drafts.
Research proposal.
Draft.
Drafts.
Draft with edits.
Photocopy of published chapter, with annotations.
Draft.
Ph.D. thesis (2 copies)
Draft with edits.
Notes.
Drafts and excerpts, with edits.
Drafts and excerpts.
Draft with edits.
Draft with edits.
Draft of address.
Draft of talk.
Drafts, correspondence, and photocopy of published version.
Draft.
Published version.
Chapter draft for unknown book.
Draft.
Drafts of articles, research relating to W.L.
Draft, correspondence with Harry Johnson.
Draft with annotations from 1993.
Draft.
Offprint.
Draft.
Clower's syllabi, coursepacks, exams, and lecture notes from his tenure at Northwestern, UCLA, and the University of South Carolina. Arranged alphabetically by course code or title, with loose material on various topics at the end, along with special teaching engagements, such as Clower's Fulbright at the University of Siena and his Perugia Lectures series.
Syllabus.
Exams.
Exams.
Exams.
Exams.
Syllabi, exams.
Syllabi, exams.
Outline, exams.
Reading list, exams.
Syllabi, Strotz notes.
Syllabus.
Outline, exams, coursepacks.
Lecture notes, syllabi, coursepacks, exams.
Exams, coursepacks.
Outline, coursepacks, exams.
Syllabi, exams, coursepack.
Syllabus, exams.
Syllabi, exams, readings lists, class notes.
Syllabus, exams.
Reading lists, exams.
Syllabus, exams.
Syllabus, exams.
Syllabus.
Lecture notes.
Outline, exam, reading list.
Class notes.
Includes transcripts of Clower's lectures, with edits, over five days as a lecturer on the topic The Present Crisis in Economic Theory.
Legal transcripts of Clower's testimony as an expert witness in three cases related to monopolies. Arranged chronologically.
Includes an incomplete set of Clower's performance evaluations; agendas, notes, and fliers from his attendance at various conferences; and various awards and achievements from his career.
Fliers, meeting agendas, conference programs, and other assorted materials from Clower's participation in various professional organizations as both an attendee and a presenter. Files are arranged chronologically.
Assorted personal files, including biographical sketches and various versions and drafts of Clower's CV. Also includes family genealogy records, clippings, a pilot log, and miscellaneous writings, such as father F. W. Clower's MA thesis.
Includes portraits of Clower.
Includes photographs.
Drafts and typescripts.
Clower's research and subject files, arranged by topic or name. Authors represented include his graduate students, as well as other economists. Includes his annotated copies of Keynes's A General Theory, and articles and essays by or about John Hicks, Milton Friedman, and David Laidler. Arranged alphabetically.
Includes 2 copies of The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money, with Clower's annotations.
Includes file on Patinkin's article about Archibald and Lipsey, including correspondence and drafts.
Organized into two subseries: General Correspondence and Recommendations.
General Correspondence contains both personal and professional correspondence. Clower's personal correspondence consists mainly of postcards, Christmas cards, and birthday cards, though there are a few personal letters to and from longtime family friends. The professional correspondence is with economists, publishers, journals, and universities, usually discussing conferences and travel, networking, publications, reasearch, and writings.
Recommendations contains Clower's correspondence and drafts of recommendation letters for individuals applying to professional positions or graduate school.
Contains both personal and professional correspondence. Personal correspondence consists mainly of postcards, Christmas cards, and birthday cards, though there are a few personal letters to and from longtime family friends. Professional correspondence is between Clower and other economists and professors, usually discussing conferences and travel, networking, publications, reasearch, and writings. Prominent economists represented include Milton Friedman, Ingo Barens, Peter Howitt, Donald Patinkin, Kumaraswamy Velupillai (Vela), John Hicks, Axel Leijonhufvod, Charlotte Phelps, and Joan Robinson. Also includes Clower's communications with publishers, journals, and universities. Arranged alphabetically by last name or organization.
File of letters between Peter Howitt and Don Patinkin.
Contains Clower's correspondence and drafts of recommendation letters for individuals applying to professional positions or graduate school. Occasionally includes requests for reader reports or applications for research grants. Arranged alphabetically by last name.
Collection contains playbills and programs for theatrical productions, operas, and ballets from the United States and abroad.
Collection (2008-0054) contains playbills and programs from theatrical productions, operas, and ballets in the United States and internationally.
The addition (2008-0298) has been interfiled with the existing collection.
The addition (2009-0200) includes playbills and programs, 2008-2009.
The collection consists of approximately 280 zine titles (some with multiple issues) collected by Cohen and several hundred pieces of correspondence addressed to her during the 1990s. The collection is arranged into two series: Zines and Correspondence. The zines have been divided into sub-series based on editorship by women, men, or both, and within each sub-series, alphabetized by title. The zines primarily focus on popular culture, opinion pieces, and music. Letters in the Correspondence Series are mostly addressed to "Lara" and "Runt," Cohen's zine, with standard mailing envelopes and self-made envelopes using re-purposed materials. The correspondence is arranged chronologically. Along with letters, the series includes postcards, greeting cards, flyers, photographs, and pamphlets. Most of the correspondence includes requests for zines or personal notes to Lara.
Acquired by the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture.
The zines have been divided into sub-series based on editorship by women or men; zines are filed under women if they are co-edited and at least one editor is a woman. Within each sub-series, zines are alphabetized by title. Each folder contains an individual title with a range of issues included if known.
Correspondence is arranged by month and year ranging between 1992-1996. Most material remains in its original envelope to preserve its context and original order. Items with no discernible "month" are foldered at the end of each year. Undated items are foldered at the end of the series. Series includes letters addressed to Lara Cohen or "Runt," her zine, as well as greeting cards, postcards, and photographs. There is also one folder of miscellaneous materials.
Collection comprises weekly letters Johnson wrote to his parents in England while he served as an engineer for a tea estate, and provides commentary written from a late-colonial perspective. There is information regarding the management of the tea estate, tea manufacture, tea prices and trade, and the transformation of work processes and personal lives by mechanization, the introduction of electricity, and brick making. In addition, Johnson wrote about local customs, labor, wildlife, weather, religious festivals, disease outbreaks (esp. cholera), and Indian politics. He also wrote about various engine repairs he undertook; transportation; his favorite pastimes (including hunting and playing polo); his various horses and pets; medical and dental treatments; people he met; as well as his activities in the volunteer British military guard, where he participated in military tests, drills, and sports, and served as Farrier Sergeant. His final letters contained extensive commentary on England's role in World War I, as well as the impact of the war on Assam. Includes a few postcards, one photograph, a clipping, and a tea invoice. There is also one undated letter written to Johnson by a native missionary who requested assistance.
The Carl V. Corley papers contain the writings, drawings, scrapbooks, notebooks, and published materials that document the career and artistic output of the novelist and illustrator. The collection also includes typescripts and manuscripts of published and unpublished works of gay fiction, southern history, and heterosexual and homosexual erotica, some of which is in the form of comic books or graphic novels.
Corley's pulp novels were set primarily in early twentieth century Mississippi and Louisiana, though several were set in the South Pacific, where Corley served during World War II, and reflect varying degrees of autobiographical content. Corley's later works also show his interest in historical subject matter as well as utopian science fiction. Many of Corley's published and unpublished works include cover and textual illustrations produced by Corley.
The collection further includes photographs of the artist and friends, works by related authors and artists, correspondence with publishers, and some work-related notes and materials.
The Sabina Allred Allen Collection of Carl Corley papers consists of love letters written from Corley to Sabina during World War II, as well as artwork that Corley produced for Sabina during the war. Also extant is correspondence from Corley to Sabina dated 1999 through 2002, during which time Corley was working on an illustrated autobiography. Many of the letters from this later time period contain racist diatribes against Black Americans, as well as offensive language and stereotypes.
Most of the works in this series are drafts and typescripts of novels by Corley, some including cover art or other illustrations. The Writings Series also includes clippings about Corley's work; correspondence between Corley, his editors and publishers; and personal corerspondence with family and friends.
Bound typescript.
Bound typescript re: Tiga Polo.
Bound typescript.
Bound typescript.
Bound typescript.
Typescript and some illustrations (using earlier title, Scarlet Lantern). Cover art included in Miscellaneous Illustrations.
Typescript and cover art.
Typescript.
Typescript.
Typescript.
Manuscript.
Manuscript, including cover art.
Manuscript, including cover art.
Manuscript, including cover art.
Manuscript.
Manuscript.
Folders include handwritten notes on "Gone With the Wind" projected entitled "Tara", promotional material from the state of Georgia, city of Jonesboro, GA, a map of the state of Georgia, and storage folder.
Manuscript. Cover art included in file "Cover art for miscellaneous pulp novels."
Manuscript.
Bound typescript re: Roga St. Lo (alternate title Cotton Cavalier). Inside illustrations included in Illustrations and Comics Series.
Typescript.
Typescript. Cover art included in file, "Cover art for miscellaneous pulp novels."
Bound typescript. Cover art included in file, "Cover art for miscellaneous pulp novels."
Typescript and file with research on cowboy lingo.
Typescript and cover art. Alternate title Prescience.
Script for illustrated science fiction saga entitled "Sol Polo" in a spiral notebook.
This series includes cover art, illustrated pages, and comics created by Corley throughout his career as a pulp novelist, newspaper cartoonist, and graphic novelist. Files are arranged by title, and include Corley's work with utopian science fiction, sexual fantasy novels, Louisiana and Southern history, and Biblical history. Also included are examples from Corley's work at the Louisiana and Mississippi Departments of Highways and his comics for a local newspaper, Louisiana's Eunice News.
Corley's illustrations are largely pen or ink, drawn on paper or cardstock boards. Some titles include color, done by watercolor or tempra paint. There are also several titles, most notably the Louisiana history titles, which include collages or other paper media components. The majority of illustrations in this series are original artwork, but there are also several files with published newspaper clippings of Corley's work.
Includes a photograph of Corley.
Illustrated pages and text.
Clippings from Eunice News of Corley's comics.
Illustrations by Corley for sex costumes.
Illustrated pages and text.
Illustrated pages and text.
Illustrated pages and text.
Illustrated pages.
Sample copy with illustrations and text, as well as 1 folder of disbound scrapbook pages with newspaper clippings of the comic.
Tear sheets, text and images, from Corley's retelling of the biblical story of "Genesis" published in the Eunice, Louisiana newspaper every Sunday.
"Tempra paintings on tile depicting events that happened to Jesus Christ, but were withdrawn from the Holy Bible."
Spiral-bound volume of newspaper clippings featuring Corley's comic strip about the history of Eunice.
Spiral-bound volumes of newspaper clippings featuring Corley's history of Louisiana, part 1-3.
Spiral-bound volumes of newspaper clippings featuring Corley's history of Louisiana, part 4-5.
Illustrated pages and scrapbook of newspaper clippings with Corley's depictions of annual festivals throughout Louisiana.
Illustrated pages and text.
Illustrated pages and text.
Illustrated pages and text, covering the birth of the landscape through the War of 1812.
Illustrated pages and text, covering 1870-1888
Illustrated pages and text, covering 1889-1929
Illustrated pages and text, covering 1930-1961
Illustrated pages and text.
Illustrated pages and text.
Illustrated pages and text for 2 versions of Roga.
Illustrated pages and text, incomplete.
Illustrated pages and text, Volume 3 and 5 (incomplete).
Comic strip panels with motivational or educational phrases, apparently intended for a the Dept. of Highways.
Corley's first comic strip. Bound volume with hand-colored illustrated pages and text.
Comic strip in bound scrapbook album.
Illustrated pages and text.
5x5 inch handpainted illustrations of Louisiana folk scenes.
Alternative title: The Illustrated History of Arcadiana. Illustrated pages and text.
Illustrated pages and text.
Illustrated pages.
Drawn by Corley for the Louisiana Dept. of Transportation and Development as part of his work for the Art and Models Unit. Includes regional maps as well as maps of historic homes, plantations, landmarks, and events in the state's history, including the Civil War and the Louisiana Purchase.
Drawn by Corley for the Mississippi State Highway Dept. Includes road maps.
Illustrated pages, as submitted to Dark Horse Comics.
Illustrated pages and cover art. Alternate title: Cotton Cavalier.
Titles include: Saddle Studs, Swamp Angel, Atomic Butterfly/Scarlet Lantern, Jambalee, Jesse, Satin Chaps, Attala Rose, El Sabine, Fallen Eagle, Purple Winter, Crescent Stud, Sky Eyes, Purple Ring, Walk the August Night, The Black Angel, Star Dusk, Jafa Ben Jordan, and A New Earth.
Pamphlets featuring artwork by Corley, including one for a motel, a Baton Rouge tourist information pamphlet, and convention for state highway officials .
Illustrations and photographic inspiration for Corley's artwork.
Published erotic graphic novel entitled "Cajun Casanovas" including commentarty by Corley on its production.
Cover art with annotation
Scrapbooks include photographs, drawings, and notes relating to Corley's service in the Marine Corps in the Pacific during World War II. Scrapbooks also include research and preliminary studies for several books and comic strips. There are scrapbooks which document Corley's work for the Mississippi and Lousiana Departments of Highways. One scrapbook contains Corley's personal photographs of friends and lovers from high school to the present. Another scrapbook contains autobiographical material related to Corley's family and early life, as well as artistic inspiration and information about his career trajectory. Included are maps and posters relating to Mississippi and Lousiana history and geography created by Corley while working for the Department of Highways in both states.
Bound scrapbook of newspaper clippings.
Includes clippings, printed materials (cards, brochures, etc.) of Corley's artwork, and some correspondence.
Includes some photographs from Corley's WWII service; clippings; sketches of Guam
Includes sketches, clippings, photographs, letters, poems, and other memorabilia from Corley's service in Guadacanal, Iwo Jima, and Guam.
An autobiographical scrapbook, featuring photos and clippings pasted onto sheets of looseleaf paper. Scrapbook begins with Corley's family and traces his upbringing, his career, his artistic inspirations, and various examples of his work. Material also inclues photographs of friends and lovers.
Personal correspondence with friends and relatives with some annotations by Corley regarding source and context for items.
The Sabina Allred Allen Collection of Carl Corley papers consists of love letters written from Corley to Sabina during World War II, as well as artwork that Corley produced for Sabina during the war. The artwork accompanied Corley's letters but was separated from them prior to arriving at Duke. The letters frequently state how much Corley misses and loves Sabina, as well as their plans for engagement, marriage, and living together after the war. Many of the letters and envelopes were lightly annotated by Sabina, and some of the envelopes did not have any contents.
This colelction also includes correspondence from Corley to Sabina dated 1999 through 2002, during which time Corley was working on an illustrated autobiography. It seems that Corley reconnected with Sabina because he needed her help reconstructing parts of his story. These letters contain requests for images and artwork, and they also discuss Corley's life, his dog, politics, diets, and the health of family members. Many of the letters from this later time period contain racist diatribes against Black Americans, as well as offensive language and stereotypes. Like the World War II-era material, these envelopes were annotated by Sabina.
Also included in this collection is a small amount of correspondence from Corley to Sabina's parents, from Corley's mother to Sabina, and from Sabina to Corley.
This artwork accompanied the letters that Carl Corley sent to Sabina during World War II. The artwork was separated from the letters prior to its arrival at Duke. Also present is a magazine cutout--the relationship of the cutout to the artwork (if any) is unclear.
Collection consists of medical and pharmaceutical advertisements and promotional materials. Included are posters, booklets, diet guides, recipe books, artifacts (coffee mugs, paperweights, etc.) and other promotional ephemera. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Advertising, Sales & Marketing History.
Collection contains photographs that Cousins made; the vast majority of them were taken of Salem, Mass. They are albumen prints, most in good or excellent condition. The subjects are primarily houses, churches, and public buildings of Salem, exterior and interior shots.
Collection contains photographs from albums Cousins made entitled Views of Historic Salem. Photographs are albumen prints, most in good or excellent condition. The subjects are primarily houses, churches, and public buildings of Salem, exterior and interior shots.
Collection contains materials related to Cox's management of the Drum and Spear Bookstore and Press in Washington, D.C., his tenure as the Secretary General of the Sixth Pan-African Congress in Tanzania, and his collected subject files on the civil rights movement in the South. Non-paper formats include photographs of events, a photograph album belonging to Cox, and a group of audiocassette recordings as well as electronic records.
Acquired as part of the John Hope Franklin Research Center for African and African American History and Culture. Correspondence, administrative files, board meetings, and other items related to the management and operations of the Drum and Spear Bookstore. Materials are described at the item level.
Draft and typed letter
Photocopy
Austin, Cobb, Cox, Gittens, Henderson, Holloway, Paul, Richardson; draft and final
Three versions
Photocopy
Detroit, MI
African American-owned bookstore in D.C.
Topic focuses on Africa
2 versions
Program packet
Final and copy with edits
Two photographs featuring Courtland Cox and Charles Cobb Jr. from their time together at Drum & Spear.
Two copies, one in English and one in French
Includes two copies with edits
By Mohamed Asakir
By William A. Douglas
Includes two copies with different type settings
Includes copies with edits
Copy with edits
Two copies, one with edits
By Earl Ofari
By W.E.B. DuBois
By Kweku Dadson
By Mwalimu Edward Vaughn
Draft and typed copy
By Sam Nujoma
Contains mostly finanical papers
Vincent Harding, Institute of the Black World
Julius K. Nyerere
Julius K. Nyerere, President of the United Republic of Tanzania
James Garrett
Reports, minutes, background materials, itineraries, and other materials related Cox's role as Secretary General at the Pan-African Congress in Tanzania, held in 1974.
Chancellor Williams
Warwick, Bermuda
By Julius K. Nyerere
Six color photographs from Tanzania taken during the Sixth Pan-African Congress. Includes shots of Courtland Cox and Roosevelt Brown.
Letter from Frankie Cox, wife of Courtland Cox, to a U.S. Customs agent regarding a broken bottle of haircare product.
Contains a rich assemblage of meeting minutes, planning notes; conference agendas; lists of participants; calls for action; platforms on issues such as apartheid, French colonialism, and black power; reports during and after the Congress; photocopied clippings; and articles by Cox on the conference.
Program, handouts, press release
Handouts, correspondence, position papers
By Martin Weil
Flyers, newsletters
Form letter, position papers
by Michael Thelwell
Gulf Boycott, ALSC Campaign to Repeal Byrd Amendment, Pan-African Liberation Committee
Program, newspaper
Reports, meeting agends, form letter, questionnaire
Jamaica
Brochures, newsletters, curriculum, article drafts, outlines, meeting agendas
Two photographs featuring Courtland Cox during his association with Marion Barry. One photograph was taken in China and the other in Washington, DC.
Flyers
By Ejaffa
Includes some photographs
Newspaper, obituary
Funeral program
Information packet
Enlarged photograph mounted on posterboard of meeting between Courtland Cox, A. Phillip Randolph, Martin Luther King Jr., Roy Wilkins, Bayard Rustin, James Farmer, Whitney Young, and Jack Greenberg. Includes names of individuals.
Two research reports, one on The Emerging Minority Marketplace and the other on The Minority Business Challenge.
Four photographs enlarged and mounted on foamcore boards. Captions are as follows: 1) "Secretary of Commerce Bill Daley is congratulating an awardee at the annual MBDA Business Conference, either 1998 or 1999" 2) "My Senior staffa at MBDA. Picture taken in either 1999 or 2000." 3) "Talk to Vernon Jordan at Ron Brown's Memorial Service. April 1996." 4) "Ron Brown chairing a Diversity Council Meeting at the Department of Commerce. I am sitting next to him with glasses. I was at the tme the Director of the Office of Civil Rights at the Dept, 1995."
Gary, IN; agenda, position papers
Conference binder
Black and white photograph of Courtland Cox and Rudy Lombard, veterans of SNCC and CORE, respectively.
Meeting reports, Documents 035-046, no. 039 missing
Two photographs of Stokely Carmichael, one featuring a group shot with Louis Farrakahan, Chuck McDew, John Lewis, Phil Hutchings, and Marion Barry.
Conference Program, Planning Committee Minutes, and Photobook from SNCC 50th Anniversary Conference. Held in Raleigh, North Carolina April 15-18, 2010.
Eight candid color photographs from the 1969 Pan-African Cultural Festival held in Algiers, Algeria. Includes photographs of Eldridge Cleaver, Don Lee, Sterling Brown, and Ted Joans.
Thermofax copy of a 6-page memorandum with instructions for recruiting and communicating across the movement, including discussions of ideal recruits, warnings of police infiltration and wire-tapping, and other recommendations for protecting oneself and one's network
Contains various writings: partial interview script, with "Mimi," Cox, and Charlie Cobb, on black liberation and other topics; various writings on black power, apartheid, and minority economic justice; and a bibliography on works about insurgencies, guerilla warfare, and non-conventional war.
Includes document files in PDF, MS Word, and MS Excel formats.
Includes document files in MS Word, PDF, MS PowerPoint, and OpenDocument Text formats.
Collection contains diaries of Martha (Foster) Crawford as a young woman in Alabama, 1845-1851, and later as a Baptist missionary to China. Topics include conditions in Shanghai from 1852 to 1864 and afterwards at Tengchow, Shantung, and her reactions to the Civil War in the United States. Her diary shows the impact of the American Protestant missionary on China with a day-by-day record of her life. The Shanghai period covers the Taiping rebellion and discusses the hope that the rebellion might furnish a means for converting the Empire to Christianity. Included also are several printed pamphlets and an original manuscript history of missions in China.
Note in folder: This typed copy contains many errors - M.R"
Note in folder: "This typed copy contains many errors - M.R"
The Helen Canoyer papers include correspondence, clippings, news releases, lecture notes, texts to speeches and articles and other printed materials. An audio tape contains an interview of Canoyer. Much of the materials pertain to Canoyer's work with the Consumer Advisory Council, its administration and its efforts to advocate for consumer protection, consumer education and home economics. Other materials pertain to conferences, personal and professional correspondence, and writings.
The Consumer Reports A.J. Isserman papers include correspondence, clippings, court briefs and depositions, book manuscript drafts, photographs and other printed materials relating to Isserman's work in civil rights and labor law. Topics include labor union activities and strikes, civil liberties, communist influence, investigations into Un-American activities, deportation, and disbarment of lawyers. Persons and institutions reflected in the collection include the American Civil Liberties Union of New Jersey, the Dies Committee, Judge Harold Medina, and Leinhard Bergel. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Pamphlet relating to the debate within the ACLU, beginning around 1939, between its traditional mission of nonpartisan protection of speech rights and a growing sentiment to oppose anti-democratic doctrines such as fascism and Nazism.
Edith Beckman was an organizer with the National Textile Workers Union, arrested in October 1931 and held for deportation until released under bond in November 1932. File contains clippings related to the case, Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis intervention, Beckman's hunger strike and eventual release.
Leinhard Bergel, professor in the German Department at Rutgers University and an outspoken opponent of Nazism, was dismissed from his position in 1935. Bergel claimed that the department head, Friedrich Hauptman, who was pro-Nazi, fired him on ideological grounds. Rutgers upheld the dismissal. In 1940-1941, Hauptman returned to Germany and joined the Nazi party. He was arrested after the war on suspicion of spying for Germany, but apparently not tried and died in Austria in 1978. Bergel became professor of comparative litarature at CUNY and died in 1987.
Isserman's library search notes; includes Memorandum for American Bar Association re. Interference with attorneys in professional duties (1932)
Dies Committee, named for Texas Representative Martin Dies, precursor to the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC)
Harold J. Medina (1888-1990) presided over the Foley Square Trial. Charged Isserman and the legal defense team of contempt of court.
Petition that led to Isserman's reinstatement to the Bar, in 1961.
Appeals in the Foley Square trial.
This collection contains family and political correspondence, scrap books, a letter book, and speeches relating to John J. Crittenden's service as Kentucky legislator and Governor, as member of both houses of Congress, and as a Cabinet officer. The papers contain information on the political life and public issues in Kentucky during the antebellum period, with significant material concerning Crittenden's efforts to avert the Civil War by means of a compromise plan in 1861.
In addition to the political related materials are papers pertaining to the private life of the family and the publication of "The Life of John. J. Crittenden," by his daughter, Mary Ann Butler Crittenden Coleman (1871). Also included are unpublished letters from Thomas Hart Benton, James Buchanan, William Butler, Henry Clay, Millard Fillmore, Andrew Jackson, James Madison, John Marshall, James Monroe, Franklin Pierce, Winfield Scott, William H. Seward, Alexander H. Stephens, Benjamin Taylor, Zachary Taylor, John Tyler, and Daniel Webster.
The Sylvia Lane papers consist primarily of drafts, notes, reprints and published reports of Lane's advocacy and professional research writings. Subjects include consumer education, credit and credit discrimination, economic development, food distribution, health and medical care costs, housing and real estate, low-income communities and individuals, and sales and other taxes.
Includes: Chapter XIII Petitioners; Comment on Proposed Changes in the Charitable Deduction; Distributional Equity of the Food Stamp Program; Economics of Consumer Class Actions; Ecomonics of the Low-Income Mortgagor Counseling Program; Effectiveness of Public Income Redistributive Programs on Lower Income Groups; Familiarizing Students with Unfamiliar Merchandise Sources; Food Distribution and Food Stamp Program Effects on Food Consumption and Nutritional Achievement of Low Income Persons in Kern County California; Graduated Sales Tax; Housing the Underhoused; Petitioners Under Chapter XIII of the Bankruptcy Act; Rising Cost of Medical Care; Socio Economic Study of Marginal Credit Risks; Sub-Marginal Credit Risks; Submarginal Credit Risk Classification
Includes: Buying Intelligently; Evaluation of Proposals for Revision of the California State Sales Tax System; Further Regressive Effects of Exise and Sales Taxes; Personal Bankrupts, Debtors and Debt Counselees
Includes: Consumer Agencies and the Theory of Consumer Demand; Housing the Underhoused; Marginal Credit Risk Study; Some Economic Aspects of the Provision of Adequate Medical Care in the United States; Strengthening the Family Economic Functioning Through Effective Counseling;
The James Mendenhall scrapbook collects articles and writings by Mendenhall during and immediately after World War II. Articles appeared under the auspices of the U.S. Office of Price Administration, where Mendenhall served during the war years. Topics of articles include gasoline prices, home economics, housing costs, inflation, price regulation, retailer integrity, savings, teacher salaries, and other aspects of war-time and postwar recovery economies.
The Irving Michelson papers include clippings, correspondence, reprints of articles, research data, questionnaires, reports and other printed materials. Topics include air pollution, cigarette testing, economics, nuclear radiation and fallout, packaging standards, and seat belt design and testing. Much of the research discussed in the papers was conducted in Connecticut. Organizations represented include the British Consumers Association, Consumers Union, International Organization of Consumers' Unions, and the U.S. Defense Department.
Includes: Comparative Method for Studying Costs of Air Pollution; Dynamic Tests of Restraining Devices for Automobile Passengers; Environmental Pollution by Radiation; Fallout in Food; Radioactivity in the Total Diet; Radioisotopes in the 1962, 1963, 1964 Diet; Radium-226 in the Total Diet; Selected Results from Total Diet Studies; Strontium-90 in the Total Diet; The Chemist's Ethic and the Community; The Determinatino of Vegetable Matter Content of Wool; The Distribution of Cut Fiber Lengths in Wool Sampled by Cylindrical Tube Borings; The Public and Air Pollution Control
Studies of military exchanges, antifreeze; unsafe products
Includes: Kansas City; New York-New Jersey metropolitan; Upper Ohio River Valley; Washington, D.C.
Armour Research Foundation-funded project
The National Association of Consumers records include correspondence, drafts and notes for articles and speeches, meeting minutes, membership lists, bylaws and other printed materials that primarily document the administrative life of the organization. Included in the collection are correspondence and writings of Colston Warne and Helen Hall, and food safety projects relating to the pork and poultry industry, including Trichinosis.
Includes contributions by Colston Warne, Elizabeth Rohr, Mary Dublin Keyserling, and Persia Campbell
The Consumer Reports Eileen Nic papers include Correspondence, project proposals, research reports and other printed materials that relate to air pollution, chemical accidents, environmental policy, hazardous materials and pesticide use and regulation. Organizations and individuals represented in the collection include Ciba-Geigy, Esther Peterson, International Organization of Consumers' Unions (IOCU, later Consumers International) and Union Carbide (relating to the Bhopal chemical accident). Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
The Edward Reich papers consist of correspondence, bibliographies reports and teaching guides relating to Reich's service with the New York City Board of Education's consumer education program. Topics include establishing and organizing activities for consumer clubs; adult consumer education programs; and suggested resources for study.
The Consumer Reports Frances Warne papers include clippings, correspondence, book manuscripts and drafts, course notes and other printed materials. The bulk of the collection pertains to "Wise Buymanship", a home economics and consumer education manual produced for the YWCA.
Wise Buymanship: A Consumers Union Discussion Manual Prepared for the National Board of the Young Women's Christian Association
Includes assignments, notes, pamplets and clippings, paper topics, syllabi and other materials used for courses in consumer economics, consumer education and home economics
Includes correspondence and documents relating to Warne's will and probate
Collection includes correspondence, status reports, position papers, statements and testimonies before Congressional committees and other government agencies, and other printed materials. Topics addressed include energy policy, food marketing and safety, product safety and other subjects relating to consumer protection. Institutions represented include the Center for Law and Social Policy, Consumer Product Safety Commission, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Originally designated Record Group 1LD in Consumers Union Archives. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
The major part of the collection is the correspondence of J. L. M. Curry with his son, Manly Bowie Curry, mainly in the years 1884-1903. The correspondence is personal, for the most part, but there are occasional references to Curry's career in education. The collection also contains two letter books covering a portion of the time Curry served as United States minister to Spain (1885-1888) which have extensive observations on Spain, its rulers, customs, and environment; a few items of correspondence with relatives; newspaper clippings; photographs of the Curry family and of the Philippines; and a typewritten journal kept by Manly Lamar Curry while serving with the United States Marine Corps in Nicaragua, 1930-1931.
The Mark Danner Papers document Danner's career as a prominent writer and journalist. Materials in the collection date from 1970 to 2004, and primarily document Danner's work on Haiti during the years following Jean-Claude Duvalier's exile in 1986 and the rise of Jean-Bertrand Aristide in the 1990's. The notes, correspondence, travel information, and newspaper clippings constitute part of Danner's research during his work for The New Yorker, The New York Times Magazine, and the New York Review of Books.
The Newspaper Clippings series contains newspaper clippings from various newspapers and newsletters concerning the turmoil in Haiti.
The Government Documents series includes documentation of U.S. government institutions' views and actions towards Haiti, as well as documents from the Haitian government, including a copy of the 1987 constitution.
The T.V. and Radio Transcripts series comprises interviews conducted with various U.S. and Haitian officials and citizens for media outlets such as ABC News.
The Printed Materials series contains a variety of documents from human rights organizations such as Amnesty International and news organizations such as the Foreign Broadcast International Service cables, in addition to flyers and other materials from Haiti. A selection of Danner's own articles on Haiti are also included.
The Research Materials series comprises materials Danner collected on Haiti (notably, records of the U.S. District Court Front Pour l'Avancement et le Progres Haitien -FRAPH court case) as well as documents for other subjects, such as the Balkans, El Mozote, and the World Bank.
The Personal series includes documentation of Danner's travels along with notes and correspondence.
The Tapes series contains VHS tapes which Danner collected as part of his research on Haiti.
The collection also includes two 3.5" floppy disks with files created by Danner. These have been migrated to the Electronic Records server for preservation and are available by contacting Research Services in advance.
This series contains clippings from various newspapers and newsletters with articles pertaining to Haiti. These materials are organized chronologically, with separate folders for the Haiti Hebdo, a weekly news publication.
The Government Documents series is divided into two subseries. The first, U.S. Government Documents, contains materials from the U.S. State Department, Department of Defense, etc. that are related to Haiti and which Danner collected as part of his research on the island. The second subseries, Haiti Government Documents, includes pamphlets, speeches, and flyers issued by the Haitian government. Most of this material comes from the late 1980s and early 1990s, and includes a printed copy of the 1987 version of Haiti's constitution.
This series includes printed transcripts of interviews with various individuals including Haiti citizens, politicians, journalists, etc. The majority of these transcripts are printed on letterhead indicating the media outlet for which they were intended (i.e. ABC News) and, occasionally, the newscaster who was to present the material. The transcripts are organized by date, with the exception of materials Danner kept separately in large binders. These are organized by the binder label, which is also the name of the newsdesk for whom the interviews were conducted (i.e. ABC -Washington Interviews). Within these folders, the transcripts are organized by the name of the interview subject.
The Printed Materials series encompasses a large variety of documents, including reports by human rights organizations such as Amnesty International, newsletters, foreign affairs papers, and magazines and journals in both French and English which Danner collected for his research on Haiti. A selection of Danner's own articles about Haiti are also included.
Many of the documents are papers and reports on the changing political and economic situation in Haiti in the early 1990s. The Foreign Broadcast International Service Cables are daily news briefings for the Caribbean region. In addition to more formal printed documents, the series contains printed flyers from Haiti, some of which present political candidates. The materials in this series are organized by format.
The Research Materials series includes materials Danner collected on Haiti (notably, records of the U.S. District Court Front Pour l'Avancement et le Progres Haitien (FRAPH) court case). These materials are organized by format, with the exception of materials Danner had organized in research binders: these documents are kept together in separate folders.
In addition to the materials which discuss Haiti, the Research Materials series includes information which Danner collected on other contemporary news issues, including wars in the Balkans and El Salvador, among others.
The brief Personal subseries contains information on Danner, much of which is related to his Haiti work. These documents include flyers and agendas for events Danner attended, notes, correspondence, and travel information for Danner's trips to Haiti.
The Audiovisual series includes VHS recordings of various programs on which Danner either worked or collected for research purposes. The tapes are listed by the information on their label.
This collection documents Davidson's career and interests, including post-Keynesian economics; international monetary payments and global employment policies; monetary theory; income distribution; and energy economics.
The collection almost exclusively consists of correspondence files, with the exception of a few clippings and speeches folders. The most notable group of correspondents are his fellow post-Keynesians such as Victoria Chick, Alfred Eichner, John Kenneth Galbraith, Geoff Harcourt, Jan Kregel, Hyman Minsky, Basil Moore, Luigi Pasinetti, Joan Robinson, Anthony Thirlwall, and Sidney Weintraub. Other correspondents of note include Philip Arestis, Peter Bernstein, Robert Clower, Robert Eisner, Sir John Hicks, Allan H. Meltzer, Edward Nell, Don Patinkin, James Tobin, and Paul Samuelson. Other large amounts of correspondence and other materials relate to Davidson's editorial work with many major economics journals, including the Journal of Post Keynesian Economics, which he founded; these folders typically contain correspondence between Davidson, journal referees, and authors. In one group of folders, Davidson engages with other colleagues in sometimes heated exchanges about bias in professional journals.
In addition to correspondence with colleagues and authors, the files also contain correspondence related to academic departments where Davidson held positions. Reflecting his broad background, the papers also document Davidson's involvement with politics (see the Congress file) and consultancy work for an energy company in his early career (the Oil and Energy files), and his role as an active public figure, documented by letters to the editor for various maistream publications.
Exchanges reflect professional relationships Davidson maintained with colleagues in the United States, Italy, England, Japan, and other countries. There are also many folders of correspondence with academic institutions, media organizations, presses, and publishers, much of which stems from Davidson's many editorial roles for professional journals and other publications. Smaller amounts of correspondence relate to conferences and lectures. The more abundant files include corresponde with Milton Friedman, Geoff Harcourt, Sir John Hicks, Jan Kregel, and Sidney Weintraub; also, there is significant correspondence with economists whose papers are also held at Duke University, such as Clower, Patinkin, Perlman, and Samuelson. Arranged in alphabetical order by correpondent, publication, or topic; each alphabetical sequence is initiated by folders of routine or single-letter correpondence filed by letter rather than by name. There is one file of correspondence containing letters with no last names indicated.
Consists of uncategorized files of drafts, newspaper clippings, reports, and other documents created through Davidson's professional activities. Arranged in alphabetical order by folder title.
The Griffith J. Davis Photographs and Films collection dates from 1949-1991 and comprises two main series: films and a photo album made in the 1950s in Liberia and documenting life there during part of William V. Tubman's presidency; and photographs, contact prints, hundreds of digitized nitrate and safety negatives, and related papers documenting three photo-essays, one on African American author Langston Hughes; another on artists Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston; and one on the Palmer Memorial Institute, a private junior and senior high school for African Americans in Sedalia, N.C. The digitized negatives are also available through the Duke Libraries Digital Collections website.
Photographic materials include two sheets of photographic contact prints taken by Davis when he visited Methodist missionaries Mr. and Mrs. George Way Harley in Ganta, Liberia. Subjects include African masks and the Ganta Mission. A letter written by Davis describes his visit with the Harleys.
Other Griff Davis images in the collection are found in an album entitled "Progress in Liberia, November 1949 - February 1950," containing a map of Liberia and twenty large black-and-white gelatin silver prints with typed captions. Subjects feature Liberian landscapes, construction projects, bridges, railroads, and port scenes, with some images featuring native Liberian workers. The album was assembled to promote the partnership with the Liberian government and the Liberia Mining Company; in the first image, President Tubman is signing a contract with mining officials.
The audiovisual components include two home movies taken in Monrovia, and six color and black-and-white films taken in Liberia by Davis in the 1950s during William V.S. Tubman's presidency. Davis was asked by Tubman to document modern life in Liberia in 1952. In 1956 and 1957 he made films while stationed in Liberia with the United States technical assistance mission and the Liberian Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. Films depict a wide range of subjects, activities and events, including the country's people, industry, leaders, and rural life. Titles include Pepper Bird Land (1952), Liberia 1956 Presidential Inauguration of William V. S. Tubman & William R. Tolbert, President and the Press Exhibit (1956), Gold Coast Prime Minister Kwame Nkrumah Visits Liberia (1953), Progress Through Cooperation (1957), home movie Coketails for Dorothy, Monrovia Children's Birthday Party (1956), and Night Village Dancing in Liberia (1956).
This series consists chiefly of contact sheets created by Davis from his nitrate and safety film negatives, also found in this collection. The original negative numbers are marked next to each image on the contact sheet, and in a few cases, there are captions.
Not all of the 342 negatives in the collection are represented on these contact sheets; however, all of the negatives have been digitally scanned and are available to view through the Scanned Negatives series in this collection guide.
A few gelatin silver prints are included in the contact sheet folders, left as they were originally filed.
This album was created with photographs by Griff Davis to promote a partnership between the government of Liberia and Liberia Mining Company. It contains 20 black-and-white prints, measuring approximately 10 1/4 x 12 1/4 inches, and each print includes a typed caption.
The 342 original safety and nitrate cellulose film negatives in this collection were taken by photojournalist Griff Davis for use in three publication projects. They are almost all black-and-white.
Almost a third of the images, 108 negatives, derive from a photo-essay in Ebony magazine on African American author and New York resident Langston Hughes. Another 124 images document African American student life at the Palmer Memorial Institute preparatory school in Sedalia, N.C., also published in Ebony. Finally, 110 images document African American artists and mural painters Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston at work in their studio on a mural for the Golden State Mutual Life Insurance Company. There are also a dozen color photographs of Alston's modernist paintings and a sculpture.
All of the negatives were digitally scanned for preservation purposes by library staff; the digital files are viewable through links in this collection guide, or through the Duke University Libraries Digital Collections website.
The Palmer Memorial Institute (PMI) was an African American preparatory school for junior and senior students, and was attended by more than 1,000 students from 1902 until it closed in 1971. In 1946 and 1947, Griff Davis visited the school, documenting daily student life at PMI for a 1947 photo-essay in Ebony magazine. A copy of this article is in the Photographs and Papers series.
The images show students in class and enjoying extra-curricular programs and recreation; school administrators, including President and founder Charlotte Hawkins Brown; and teachers.
Positive scans of the negative images are available for viewing through the links with each entry.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute. Title transcribed from caption in Ebony magazine (photocopy in collection folder).
Palmer Memorial Institute. Title transcribed from caption in Ebony magazine (photocopy in collection folder).
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute. Same shot as PMI-9. "Favorite hangout on campus is co-op Tea Room which takes up recess time and student allowances (average $10 monthly)."
Palmer Memorial Institute. Title transcribed from caption in Ebony magazine (photocopy in collection folder).
Palmer Memorial Institute. Title transcribed from Davis' contact sheet.
Palmer Memorial Institute. Title transcribed from caption in Ebony magazine. The rest of the caption reads, "In her office (above) she talks over student affairs with senior class president Edward Clark of New York. Each morning at 8:30 chapel service (below) she addresses student body, limited to enrollment of 240."
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute. Title transcribed from caption in Ebony magazine (photocopy in collection folder). The rest of the caption reads, "Palmer teaches proper manners but does not regard itself as a 'sissy school.' For 35 vacancies this coming school year, more than 600 applications have been received."
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute. Title transcribed from caption in Ebony magazine (photocopy in collection folder).
Palmer Memorial Institute. Title transcribed from caption in Ebony magazine. The rest of the caption reads, "Class is required for junior and senior girls. On Fridays all Palmer girls dress uniformly in navy blue or black skirts and white blouses with black neckerchiefs. All boys wear ties. Costume is for special chapel service."
Palmer Memorial Institute. Same setting as PMI-20.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute. Same setting as PMI-26. "Whist game at campus cottage of Dean Donald Montague is big social occasion."
Palmer Memorial Institute. Title transcribed from caption in Ebony magazine (photocopy in collection folder). Remainder of caption reads, "Gambling is prohibited along with games like poker. Men are not permitted to smoke on campus although teachers may smoke in their homes."
Palmer Memorial Institute. Same setting as PMI-26. "Whist game at campus cottage of Dean Donald Montague is big social occasion."
Palmer Memorial Institute. Title transcribed from Davis' contact sheet.
Palmer Memorial Institute. Title transcribed from Davis' contact sheet.
Palmer Memorial Institute. Title, including question mark, transcribed from Davis' contact sheet.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute. Same shot as PMI-33. "Music lessons are taken by every PMI student. Henri has played piano since 7, here rehearses for concert with violinist Victor Vick."
Palmer Memorial Institute. Title transcribed from caption in Ebony magazine (photocopy in collection folder).
Palmer Memorial Institute. Title transcribed from caption in Ebony magazine (photocopy in collection folder). Rest of caption reads, "Mrs. Juanita Peyton drove down from home in Newport New, Va., to attend YWCA confab in Greensboro, N.C., stopped off on way. Frequent visiting by parents in discouraged. Those living nearby are asked to come no more than three or four times a year."
Palmer Memorial Institute. Same setting as PMI-34. "Mother's visit to campus is treat for Henri."
Palmer Memorial Institute. Same shot as PMI-34. "Mother's visit to campus is treat for Henri."
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute. Image is not present in contact sheets.
Palmer Memorial Institute. Image is not present in contact sheets.
Palmer Memorial Institute. Image is not present in contact sheets.
Palmer Memorial Institute. Same shot as PMI-50. "Singing with PMI chorus, Henri (second row, third from right) wears surplice."
Palmer Memorial Institute. Title transcribed from caption in Ebony magazine (photocopy in collection folder). Rest of caption reads, "Sedalia Singers have raised voices, money and praise for Palmer at White House, New York's Town Hall and Boston's Symphony Hall. All students must learn Hallelujah Chorus from Messiah for each commencement."
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute. Title transcribed from caption in Ebony magazine (photocopy in collection folder).
Palmer Memorial Institute. Sewing class setting.
Palmer Memorial Institute. Sewing class setting.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute. Title transcribed from caption in Ebony magazine (photocopy in collection folder).
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute. Same shot as PMI-70. "In library, Henri studies English lessons. Every PMI student must pass college entrance exam before graduation."
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute. Same shot as PMI-85. "Before girl's dorm, Henri bids her escort goodnight after first big dance while envious lower classmen watch from windows."
Palmer Memorial Institute. Title transcribed from caption in Ebony magazine.
Palmer Memorial Institute. Same shot as PMI-87. "Getting ready for annual prom, Henri helps decorate gym…"
Palmer Memorial Institute. Title transcribed from caption in Ebony magazine.
Palmer Memorial Institute. Same general shot as PMI-91.
Palmer Memorial Institute. Same general shot as PMI-91.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute. Title transcribed from caption in Ebony magazine. The reference to Dr. Hawkins' office indicates an illustration on the article page; this image occurs later in the digital collection sequence.
Palmer Memorial Institute. Same general shot as PMI-91.
Palmer Memorial Institute. Same general shot as PMI-91.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute. Similar shot to PMI-105.
Palmer Memorial Institute. Similar shot to PMI-105.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute. Title transcribed from caption in Ebony magazine article (photocopy in collection folder). Rest of caption reads, "Youngest is 2-year-old grandniece Carol Lane, visiting from Boston. Other three are youngest PMI students who customarily live in the president's home. Palmer age limits are 11 to 18; average is 15. School has one ex-GI in his 20s."
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
Palmer Memorial Institute.
These photographs, on cellulose nitrate and safety film, were taken by Davis for a photo-essay on Langston Hughes in Ebony magazine, and document Hughes in New York City in his apartment and backstage with theater and musical performers, and in Atlanta, visiting with students and faculty at Atlanta University and Morehouse College. Some of these images also appeared in biographies and other publications about Langston Hughes. Positive scans of the negative images are available for viewing through the links with each entry.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection. This New York City building is where Langston Hughes lived.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection. This New York City building is where Langston Hughes lived.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection. This New York City building is where Langston Hughes lived.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection. This New York City building is where Langston Hughes lived.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection. Caption continues: "L to R on picture is LH, Jacob Anderson, Sr. (one of three owners) and Ellington, store manager."
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection. Caption continues: "L to R on picture is LH, Jacob Anderson, Sr. (one of three owners) and Ellington, store manager."
Langston Hughes at Atlanta University (extrapolated from similar images).
Langston Hughes at Atlanta University (extrapolated from similar images).
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection. Caption continues: "Students came from colleges in A.U. Center - Spelman College, Morehouse College, Clark College, Norris Brown College, etc." This image also appears with the same title in The Life of Langston Hughes by Arnold Rampersad.
Langston Hughes at reception, Atlanta University (extrapolated by library staff from similar images).
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection.
Langston Hughes, seated, posed portrait.
Langston Hughes, seated, posed portrait.
Langston Hughes portrait, at typewriter.
Langston Hughes, posed portrait by window.
Langston Hughes, posed portrait by window.
Title extrapolated by library staff from Griff Davis title for LH-91, on title list in collection. Caption continues: "Statue of W.E.B. DuBois, former Atlanta University professor."
Langston Hughes.
Langston Hughes at typewriter.
Langston Hughes at typewriter.
Langston Hughes at typewriter.
Langston Hughes.
Langston Hughes.
Langston Hughes. Same setting as LH-27, Yates and Milton drugstore.
Langston Hughes. Same setting as LH-27, Yates and Milton drugstore.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection. Also appears in The Life of Langston Hughes by Arnold Rampersad, "Negro History Week, Atlanta, 1947." Photocopy is in collection folder of materials on Langston Hughes in the Photographs and Papers series.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection. Caption continues: "During registration students sign up for his class."
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection.
Langston Hughes at typewriter.
Langston Hughes at typewriter.
Langston Hughes at typewriter.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection. Caption continues: "LH with Atlanta University President Rufus E. Clement and A.U. students."
Langston Hughes.
Langston Hughes.
Langston Hughes.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection. Caption continues: "President Benjamin E. Mays (with hand to mouth). Looks like Martin Luther King, Sr. next to Mays."
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection.
Langston Hughes.
Langston Hughes.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection.
Langston Hughes.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection. Caption continues: "They later collaborated on some picture articles for EBONY magazine e.g. Atlanta in January 1948. Taken in Atlanta at Langston Hughes's faculty apartment." Library staff note: The student is not evident in this image; perhaps he or she took the photograph.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection. This New York City building is where Langston Hughes lived. Image consists of three frames on a 35 mm negative film strip.
LH-50 (9). Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection. Image consists of three frames on a 35 mm negative film strip. One of the images appears in The Life of Langston Hughes by Arnold Rampersad, with caption reading "Later that day."
LH-51 (frame 17) Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection. Image consists of two frames on a 35 mm negative film strip. Image of LH in bed, alone (frame 18), appears in The Life of Langston Hughes by Arnold Rampersad; the caption reads: "About noon one day in 1949."
Langston Hughes.
Langston Hughes, backstage.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection. Question mark is Griff Davis's. According to another photograph caption in the Ebony article of March 1949 (photocopy in collection folder), an actress in "Streetcar Named Desire" is Edna Thomas.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection. The caption continues: "See Ebony article, circa 1950 for identification of artists."
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection.
Caption transcribed, including question mark, from Griff Davis title list in collection folder. Caption continues: "Printed in EBONY 'backstage' article." Nellie Lutcher (1912-2007) was a jazz and R&B singer and pianist. Hughes appears in mirror.
Title extrapolated by library staff from Griff Davis title list in collection. This New York City building is where Langston Hughes lived.
Title extrapolated by library staff from Griff Davis title list in collection. This New York City building is where Langston Hughes lived.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection.
Title extrapolated by library staff from Griff Davis title list in collection. This New York City building is where Langston Hughes lived.
Title extrapolated by library staff from Griff Davis title list in collection. This New York City building is where Langston Hughes lived.
Title extrapolated by library staff from Griff Davis title list in collection. This New York City building is where Langston Hughes lived.
Langston Hughes.
Langston Hughes.
Langston Hughes.
Langston Hughes.
Langston Hughes.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection.
Title extrapolated by library staff from Griff Davis title list in collection. Arna Bontemps [American poet] and Langston Hughes.
Title extrapolated by library staff from Griff Davis title list in collection. Arna Bontemps [American poet] and Langston Hughes.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection. In 1980, Arna Bontemps, an American poet, published collected letters exchanged with Langston Hughes from the 1920s to the 1960s, selected and edited by Charles H. Nichols.
Title extrapolated by library staff from Griff Davis title list in collection. Arna Bontemps [American poet] and Langston Hughes.
Title extrapolated by library staff from Griff Davis title list in collection. Arna Bontemps [American poet] and Langston Hughes.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection.
Langston Hughes.
Langston Hughes. Same setting as LH-79, working with student assistants.
Langston Hughes. Same setting as LH-79, working with student assistants.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection.
Langston Hughes.
Langston Hughes.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection.
Langston Hughes.
Langston Hughes.
Langston Hughes.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection. Caption continues: "Statue of W.E.B. DuBois, former Atlanta University professor."
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection.
Langston Hughes.
Langston Hughes.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection. Caption reads "LH-95 et al." The remainder of the caption reads: "Langston Hughes meets with Grace T. Burley of Montpelier, Vermont who regularly corresponded with LH and sent him Vermont maple syrup from time to time. She was also friendly with Era Bell Thompson, seated on right, ("American Daughter"), International Editor of Ebony magazine based in Chicago."
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection. Caption reads "LH-95 et al." The remainder of the caption reads: "Langston Hughes meets with Grace T. Burley of Montpelier, Vermont who regularly corresponded with LH and sent him Vermont maple syrup from time to time. She was also friendly with Era Bell Thompson, seated on right, ("American Daughter"), International Editor of Ebony magazine based in Chicago."
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection. Caption reads "LH-95 et al." The remainder of the caption reads: "Langston Hughes meets with Grace T. Burley of Montpelier, Vermont who regularly corresponded with LH and sent him Vermont maple syrup from time to time. She was also friendly with Era Bell Thompson, seated on right, ("American Daughter"), International Editor of Ebony magazine based in Chicago." Griff Davis appears in mirror in this shot.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection. Caption reads "LH-95 et al." The remainder of the caption reads: "Langston Hughes meets with Grace T. Burley of Montpelier, Vermont who regularly corresponded with LH and sent him Vermont maple syrup from time to time. She was also friendly with Era Bell Thompson, seated on right, ("American Daughter"), International Editor of Ebony magazine based in Chicago."
Langston Hughes seated at a table in a dining room with three unidentified women, possibly at Atlanta University.
Caption extrapolated by library staff from Griff Davis title list in collection folder. Image not present on contact sheet. Caption continues: "LH-GJD article printed in EBONY." Canada Lee (1907-1952) was a well-known Broadway actor by the 1940s. His costume indicates he was playing the role of George in "Set my people free." The Ebony article (photocopy of first page is located in the Photographs and Papers series) indicates this was his current role at the time the article was written.
Caption transcribed by library staff from Griff Davis title list in collection folder. Image not present on contact sheet. Caption continues: "LH-GJD article printed in EBONY." Canada Lee (1907-1952) was a well-known Broadway actor by the 1940s. His costume indicates he was playing the role of George in "Set my people free." The Ebony article (photocopy of first page in the collection folder) indicates this was his current play.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection. White is shown with Langston Hughes.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection. White is shown with Langston Hughes.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection. White is shown with Langston Hughes.
Title transcribed from Griff Davis title list in collection. White is shown with Langston Hughes.
Langston Hughes seated at a table in a dining room with three unidentified women, possibly at Atlanta University.
Caption transcribed, including question mark, from Griff Davis title list in collection folder. Caption continues: "Printed in EBONY 'backstage' article." Nellie Lutcher (1912-2007) was a jazz and R&B singer and pianist. Hughes appears in mirror.
Caption extrapolated by library staff from Griff Davis title for LH-107 image. Caption continues: "Printed in EBONY 'backstage' article." Nellie Lutcher (1912-2007) was a jazz and R&B singer and pianist.
The images in this group, in safety film negative format, were taken by photojournalist Griff Davis in the late 1940s to document African American artists Charles Alston and Hale Woodruff as they worked in their New York City studio on a mural project for the Golden State Mutual Life Insurance Company. The giant mural was commissioned by the Los Angeles-based African American-owned company to illustrate the historic role of African Americans in the settling of California. These studio photos feature the artists at work; other people - unidentified sitters and casual visitors - also appear in the photographs. There are also a handful of color images of some of Charles Alston's modernist paintings and one sculpture.
Positive digital scans of these negatives are available for viewing through the links in each entry.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff.
Hale Woodruff.
Hale Woodruff.
Hale Woodruff.
Hale Woodruff.
Hale Woodruff.
Someone seen only from shoes, looking at photographs on the floor.
View of a panel.
View of a panel.
View of a panel.
Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff (?), foreground, and unidentified sitter.
Hale Woodruff, Charles Alston, and unidentified man.
Hale Woodruff and unidentified sitter.
Hale Woodruff and unidentified sitter.
Hale Woodruff.
Hale Woodruff.
Hale Woodruff and unidentified sitter.
Hale Woodruff and unidentified man.
Hale Woodruff, Charles Alston, and unidentified man.
Hale Woodruff.
Hale Woodruff, Charles Alston, and unidentified man.
Hale Woodruff and unidentified sitter.
Hale Woodruff, Charles Alston, and unidentified man.
Hale Woodruff and unidentified sitter.
Hale Woodruff and unidentified sitter.
Hale Woodruff and unidentified sitter.
Charles Alston with unidentified young man.
Charles Alston with unidentified young man.
Charles Alston with unidentified young man.
Hale Woodruff and unidentified sitter.
Charles Alston with unidentified young man.
Hale Woodruff and unidentified sitter.
Hale Woodruff and Charles Alston.
Hale Woodruff and unidentified sitter.
Charles Alston with unidentified young man.
Hale Woodruff with unidentified man.
Charles Alston with unidentified young man.
Charles Alston with unidentified young man.
Charles Alston with unidentified young man and little girl.
View of a panel.
View of a panel.
View of a panel.
View of a panel.
View of a panel. Contact sheet labeled "Sheet M".
View of a panel. Contact sheet labeled "Sheet M".
View of a panel. Contact sheet labeled "Sheet M".
View of a panel. Contact sheet labeled "Sheet M".
View of a panel. Contact sheet labeled "Sheet N".
Shows part of panel. Color positive transparency. Image not present on contact sheet.
Shows part of panel. Color positive transparency. Image not present on contact sheet.
Shows part of panel. Color positive transparency. Image not present on contact sheet.
Shows part of panel. Color positive transparency. Image not present on contact sheet.
Shows part of panel. Color positive transparency. Image not present on contact sheet.
Contact sheet labeled "Sheet O". 35mm strips. Numbers represent frames.
Contact sheet labeled "Sheet O". 35mm strips. Numbers represent frames.
Contact sheet labeled "Sheet O". 35mm strips. Numbers represent frames.
This series of images of modernist paintings and one sculpture by Alston (labeled Alston 1-12) are accompanied by a variety of notes, one in Davis' hand. The latter reads, "Perhaps related to big spread Fortune [magazine] did on Jacob Lawrence paintings (about 63?). Lawrence was Alston's protégé. Griff Davis, 9/23/87." And from a photocopied slip, "Charles Alston Paintings taken in 1949 prob in NYC." "For Life"; an archivist's note on the slip reads "Front of envelope that contained photos of Alston paintings."
This series of images of modernist paintings and one sculpture by Alston (labeled Alston 1-12) are accompanied by a variety of notes, one in Davis' hand. The latter reads, "Perhaps related to big spread Fortune [magazine] did on Jacob Lawrence paintings (about 63?). Lawrence was Alston's protégé. Griff Davis, 9/23/87." And from a photocopied slip, "Charles Alston Paintings taken in 1949 prob in NYC." "For Life"; an archivist's note on the slip reads "Front of envelope that contained photos of Alston paintings."
This series of images of modernist paintings and one sculpture by Alston (labeled Alston 1-12) are accompanied by a variety of notes, one in Davis' hand. The latter reads, "Perhaps related to big spread Fortune [magazine] did on Jacob Lawrence paintings (about 63?). Lawrence was Alston's protégé. Griff Davis, 9/23/87." And from a photocopied slip, "Charles Alston Paintings taken in 1949 prob in NYC." "For Life"; an archivist's note on the slip reads "Front of envelope that contained photos of Alston paintings."
This series of images of modernist paintings and one sculpture by Alston (labeled Alston 1-12) are accompanied by a variety of notes, one in Davis' hand. The latter reads, "Perhaps related to big spread Fortune [magazine] did on Jacob Lawrence paintings (about 63?). Lawrence was Alston's protégé. Griff Davis, 9/23/87." And from a photocopied slip, "Charles Alston Paintings taken in 1949 prob in NYC." "For Life"; an archivist's note on the slip reads "Front of envelope that contained photos of Alston paintings."
This series of images of modernist paintings and one sculpture by Alston (labeled Alston 1-12) are accompanied by a variety of notes, one in Davis' hand. The latter reads, "Perhaps related to big spread Fortune [magazine] did on Jacob Lawrence paintings (about 63?). Lawrence was Alston's protégé. Griff Davis, 9/23/87." And from a photocopied slip, "Charles Alston Paintings taken in 1949 prob in NYC." "For Life"; an archivist's note on the slip reads "Front of envelope that contained photos of Alston paintings."
This series of images of modernist paintings and one sculpture by Alston (labeled Alston 1-12) are accompanied by a variety of notes, one in Davis' hand. The latter reads, "Perhaps related to big spread Fortune [magazine] did on Jacob Lawrence paintings (about 63?). Lawrence was Alston's protégé. Griff Davis, 9/23/87." And from a photocopied slip, "Charles Alston Paintings taken in 1949 prob in NYC." "For Life"; an archivist's note on the slip reads "Front of envelope that contained photos of Alston paintings."
This series of images of modernist paintings and one sculpture by Alston (labeled Alston 1-12) are accompanied by a variety of notes, one in Davis' hand. The latter reads, "Perhaps related to big spread Fortune [magazine] did on Jacob Lawrence paintings (about 63?). Lawrence was Alston's protégé. Griff Davis, 9/23/87." And from a photocopied slip, "Charles Alston Paintings taken in 1949 prob in NYC." "For Life"; an archivist's note on the slip reads "Front of envelope that contained photos of Alston paintings."
This series of images of modernist paintings and one sculpture by Alston (labeled Alston 1-12) are accompanied by a variety of notes, one in Davis' hand. The latter reads, "Perhaps related to big spread Fortune [magazine] did on Jacob Lawrence paintings (about 63?). Lawrence was Alston's protégé. Griff Davis, 9/23/87." And from a photocopied slip, "Charles Alston Paintings taken in 1949 prob in NYC." "For Life"; an archivist's note on the slip reads "Front of envelope that contained photos of Alston paintings."
This series of images of modernist paintings and one sculpture by Alston (labeled Alston 1-12) are accompanied by a variety of notes, one in Davis' hand. The latter reads, "Perhaps related to big spread Fortune [magazine] did on Jacob Lawrence paintings (about 63?). Lawrence was Alston's protégé. Griff Davis, 9/23/87." And from a photocopied slip, "Charles Alston Paintings taken in 1949 prob in NYC." "For Life"; an archivist's note on the slip reads "Front of envelope that contained photos of Alston paintings."
This series of images of modernist paintings and one sculpture by Alston (labeled Alston 1-12) are accompanied by a variety of notes, one in Davis' hand. The latter reads, "Perhaps related to big spread Fortune [magazine] did on Jacob Lawrence paintings (about 63?). Lawrence was Alston's protégé. Griff Davis, 9/23/87." And from a photocopied slip, "Charles Alston Paintings taken in 1949 prob in NYC." "For Life"; an archivist's note on the slip reads "Front of envelope that contained photos of Alston paintings."
This series of images of modernist paintings and one sculpture by Alston (labeled Alston 1-12) are accompanied by a variety of notes, one in Davis' hand. The latter reads, "Perhaps related to big spread Fortune [magazine] did on Jacob Lawrence paintings (about 63?). Lawrence was Alston's protégé. Griff Davis, 9/23/87." And from a photocopied slip, "Charles Alston Paintings taken in 1949 prob in NYC." "For Life"; an archivist's note on the slip reads "Front of envelope that contained photos of Alston paintings."
This series of images of modernist paintings and one sculpture by Alston (labeled Alston 1-12) are accompanied by a variety of notes, one in Davis' hand. The latter reads, "Perhaps related to big spread Fortune [magazine] did on Jacob Lawrence paintings (about 63?). Lawrence was Alston's protégé. Griff Davis, 9/23/87." And from a photocopied slip, "Charles Alston Paintings taken in 1949 prob in NYC." "For Life"; an archivist's note on the slip reads "Front of envelope that contained photos of Alston paintings."
Can label: "Filmed for the Republic of Liberia by Griffith J. Davis for distribution to all its Embassies and Consulates Abroad." Produced by Griffith J. Davis. Narrated by Sidney Poitier. The documentary film was commissioned by President William V. S. Tubman.
Can label: "Used in USIA Africa Regional Newsreel; Filmed by Griffith J. Davis; U.S.I.S. Film." United States Information Service production.
A birthday party for 3-year-old Dorothy Davis, daughter of Griffith Davis, in Monrovia, Liberia. Griffith Davis's wife, Muriel Corrin Davis, and their infant son, Benjamin, also appear throughout the film. Some footage repeats in RL00292-F16-0004.
A birthday party for 3-year-old Dorothy Davis, daughter of Griffith Davis, in Monrovia, Liberia. Griffith Davis's wife, Muriel Corrin Davis, and their infant son, Benjamin, also appear throughout the film. Some footage repeats in RL00292-F16-0003.
A Bureau of Information Film, produced by Beauford A. Mensah assisted by Griffith J. Davis.
Silent footage of people visiting the exhibit, including William V.S. Tubman and William Tolbert.
Silent footage of Liberian dancing devils and other dance troupes.
Silent footage of Liberian dancing devils and other dance troupes.
Presented by the Joint Liberian-United States Commission for Economic Development and the Department of Agriculture and Commerce, filmed and edited by Griffith J. Davis. Produced by the Audio Visual Center, technical assistance by the International Cooperation Administration and the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Presented by the Joint Liberian-United States Commission for Economic Development and the Department of Agriculture and Commerce, filmed and edited by Griffith J. Davis. Produced by the Audio Visual Center, technical assistance by the International Cooperation Administration and the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
The Robert Grady Dawson Papers span the years 1906-1994, and consist chiefly of papers documenting Dawson's studies at Duke University's Divinity School, where he graduated in 1930, and his professional life thereafter as a minister in the Methodist Church. Included are alphabetically arranged subject files; many folders of sermon texts; correspondence; family history; appointment books; an account book; papers written by Dawson as a student in the Duke University Divinity School, including a B.D. thesis; and an ordination certificate. There is one file folder of legal papers and photographs documenting the Howland-Dawson Gardens Endowment for the Sarah P. Duke Gardens.
Most of the NSF/CEME Decentralization Conference Records are from Roy Radnerâs tenure as coordinator (1961-1996). Paper records been divided into two series, Conferences and Seminars, and Administrative Files. Conferences and Seminars consists of programs, correspondence, conference papers and abstracts, notes, memos, planning documents, reports, and survey responses. Most of the documents are from the Decentralization conferences and seminars spanning the years 1971-1996; these are arranged alphabetically by conference title, and chronologically by year within each conference. The Administrative Files series includes documents more generally pertaining to the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) and National Science Foundation (NSF), such as correspondence, annual reports, and memoranda. This series is arranged alphabetically by folder title.
Accession 2017-0040 also includes 55 megabytes of digital records that are closed pending processing.
Conferences and Seminars consists of programs, correspondence, conference papers and abstracts, notes, memos, planning documents, reports, and survey responses. Most of the documents are from the Decentralization conferences and seminars spanning the years 1971-1996. Also included are a handful of conferences sponsored by the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) and National Science Foundation (NSF), such as the Conference on Decision Rules & Uncertainty, Conference-Seminar on the Theory of General Economic Equilibrium, Conference on Theoretical Industrial Organization, and the Seminar on Bayesian Inference in Econometrics. Arranged alphabetically by conference title, and chronologically by year within each conference.
Planning and programming documents, correspondence, conference papers
Correspondence, conference papers
Program, correspondence, conference papers
Programs summary reports, conference papers
Correspondence, notes, conference papers
Planning documents for 1974 conference
Correspondence, conference papers
Correspondence, conference papers, list of participants, survey responses, steering committee meeting minutes for 1975 conference
Program, conference papers
Program, correspondence, conference papers, steering committee memos and notes
Program, correspondence, rapporteur's report, notes
Program, correspondence, rapporteur's report, notes, memos
Program, correspondence, conference papers, list of participants, survey responses, notes
Correspondence, rapporteur's report
Program, correspondence, reports
Program, correspondence, conference papers
Program, correspondence
Program, correspondence, conference papers, notes
Program, correspondence, conference paper
Programs, correspondence, notes
Program, conference papers
Program, conference papers
Programs, correspondence, notes
Program
Conference papers
Program
Correspondence, conference paper abstracts
Program
Program
Administrative Files consists of documents more generally pertaining to the National Bureau of Economic Research, National Science Foundation, and Office of Naval Research. Documents include correspondence, annual reports, and memoranda. Arranged alphabetically by folder title.
Program, participants, and notes from previous meetings
Correspondence, reports
Annual and summary reports
Collection comprises 4 scrapbook pages the Delannoy's compiled to document their lives during World War I. Includes a map of France with the front outlined, along with the Delannoy ration cards for sugar and gasoline, safe-passage documents for Paul and Jeanne (one set contains their black-and-white photographs), and insurance papers they signed recognizing the risk of war in areas they traveled. Three pieces of French paper money are attached to one page. The final page contains an undated poster from the Paris Chamber of Commerce regarding war loans. Though both Paul and Jeanne are represented in the papers, the majority of the documents were issued to Paul. It is not clear whether pages were removed from a larger volume.
The collection chiefly documents DeLapp's long-term involvement with the North Carolina Republican Party at the state and local level. While correspondence comprises the bulk of the collection, there are also some legal and financial papers, writings and speeches, printed material, and clippings. Being Chair of the North Carolina Republican Party (1942-1950) and legal counsel to the party (1950-1964), provided DeLapp access to state party leaders, which is reflected by the correspondents that include J. E. Broyhill, Wilmer D. Mizell, William E. Cobb, and Jesse Helms.
Included is information concerning political appointments, canvassing and registering voters, political campaigns, and political speeches (some made by DeLapp). DeLapp's efforts to promote Republican presidential candidates is highlighted in 1952 when he served as North Carolina State Chairman of Dwight D. Eisenhower's campaign. The earliest corespondence primarily relates to Delapp's father, Alexander T. Lapp, who was sheriff of Davidson County, N.C., from 1906-1912 and 1916-1918. Also represented are DeLapp's responsibilities with the Evangelical and Reformed Church (later the United Church of Christ); information about the DeLapp family and DeLapp's published work, People, Politics, Religion; and concern about the Duke University administration during the 1960s and early 1970s.
Collection contains editorial files of the Democratic Digest, dating from 1953-1961, with the contents of the files falling into three large categories: correspondence, editorial, and art files. The correspondence files, arranged in alphabetical order, include telegrams and memoranda between the Democratic Digest staff, the Democratic National Committee and other organizations, and many letters from readers, critics, and Democratic Senators and Governors, chiefly responding to political issues of the day, such as McCarthyism, scandals and corruption, civil rights, the American economy, labor, farm subsidies, nuclear weapons, war, and elections, and offering criticism on the content of the publication. There is also some personal correspondence.
Voluminous editorial files contain nearly complete content for issues, and are filed in publication order by month and year, 1955-1961. The files enclose copy for articles and columns, with many corrections and layout notes; condensed versions of TV and radio addresses, including speeches by Democratic candidates; and many clippings from original articles reprinted in the Digest, attached to the magazine's own copy. Some of this material is brittle and fragile.
About a third of the collection consists of hundreds of pieces of original layout art, printers proofs of covers, and political cartoons, and a handful of photographs of Democratic leaders of the time such as Truman, Stevenson, and Johnson (Box 25). For an unknown reason, there is also a portrait of Durham native and Duke alumnus and benefactor William Washington Flowers. A few complete copies of the Digest are sometimes included in the artwork files next to associated cover art. There are many examples of production artists' layout materials that include original art and sketches, and paste-ups on boards with directions for layout. The original art for the cover cartoons by noted illustrator Leo Hershfield is rendered in vivid watercolors. The artwork and layouts are loosely arranged in chronological order.
Finally, a smaller group of printed materials deriving from the Democratic 1960 national campaign includes political leaflets, pamphlets, party platforms and position papers, a newsprint publication examining of the records of Nixon and Kennedy, and a few other items.
There is no folder for February 1960.
No December or January folders.
The Dismal Swamp Land Company records consist of company records spanning the 17th-19th centuries, with the bulk falling in the mid-to-late 19th century. The majority of records consist of financial documentation, including receipts for the purchase of equipment by the Company and numerous receipts for customers detailing quantities and prices of shingles purchased. Monthly ledgers and an account book are also present. The records include legal documents surrounding surveys of the Dismal Swamp, indentures, wills, and several powers of attorney for shareholder meetings. Incoming correspondence intended for the Company's presidents, mainly from employees and shareholders, makes up the majority of the Correspondence series.
Financial records of the Dismal Swamp Land Company, including bills of sale, monthly ledgers, insurance certificates, and dividends awarded to stockholders. A substantial portion of the series consists of receipts of payment to the company and its payments to various stockholders, vendors, and legal courts.
Legal papers of the Dismal Swamp Land Company. Includes separate folders related to Powers of Attorney for annual meetings and last wills and testaments for investors in the Company. Series also includes indentures, court cases filed by and against the Company, and legal guardian documentation.
The Dorsey & Whitney Records span the years 1997-2008, with the majority of the materials created between 2004 and 2008. The records consist largely of legal papers, news clippings, writings and correspondence regarding the cases of six Bahraini detainees: Jumah Al-Dossari, Abdullah Al-Nuaimi, Isa Al-Murbati, Salah Al-Balooshi, Adel Hajji and Salman bin Ibrahim Al-Khalifa, kept under extra-judicial detention by the U.S. military at Camp Delta, Guantánamo Bay Naval Base, Cuba.
A team of three lawyers, Mark S. Sullivan, Joshua Colangelo-Bryan and Christopher G. Karagheuzoff took on the cases of Bahraini detainees pro bono in 2004. The records in this collection document the lawyers' legal motions, public campaigns and diplomatic negotiations for writ of habeas corpus and the release and repatriation of the Bahraini detainees, as well the surrounding issues of the Bush administration's responses to terrorism, the civil rights of prisoners of war, and the use of interrogation and torture at U.S. installations. Many of these documents are also present in the form of electronic files.
The records are divided into four series: Case Files, Correspondence, Publicity, and Digital Files. The Case Files Series (nine boxes of the thirteen in the collection) comprises petitions, filings, documents relating to the Combatant Status Review Tribunal (CRST), and a wide variety of legal records regarding the six Bahrainis' and other concurrent Guantánamo detainee cases. The Correspondence Series includes exchanges between client detainees, Department of Justice officials, Bahraini diplomats and officials, U.S. senators and congressmen, law scholars, and colleagues of the Dorsey & Whitney team representing the Guantánamo detainees. The letters and writings in this series cover issues and problems related to the legal status of Guantánamo detainees, human rights violations at Camp Delta, and diplomatic efforts for the release and repatriation of the Bahraini detainees. The high-profile case of Jumah Al-Dossari, detained in 2001 and eventually released without facing any charges in 2007, is covered in depth in this series, becoming an emblematic example of the abuse and torture at Guantánamo Naval Base and detrimental consequences of long term solitary confinement. Also covered in depth in the Correspondence Series is the Graham-Levin-Kyl Amendment approved by the Senate on November, 15 2005, which prohibits all habeas corpus claims by Guantánamo detainees and allows military tribunals to rely on evidence gathered by the use of torture. The Publicity Series brings together news articles regarding Bahraini Guantánamo detainees, commentaries addressing the legal process and human rights issues, and interviews with Dorsey & Whitney lawyers about the conditions at the military base and the legal and living situation of the detainees. The clippings in the collection were published by major news press and online media outlets worldwide, and include seven folders which hold many Arabic language news clippings. Many of the legal team's documents are also present in the form of electronic documents which are organized into folders described in the Digital Files Series. Also present is a twelve-minute unclassified audio recording on CD-R of the CRST hearing for Al-Murbati, and printed images of the families of the detainees. Original electronic files and recordings are closed to access but use copies may be requested; please contact Research Services.
The Dorsey & Whitney Records are composed of materials predominantly in the English language. There is also a considerable amount of Arabic language items in all three series. These chiefly consist of affidavits, letters by detainees and their relatives, and news clippings. Most of the Arabic language materials have English translations, with the exception of the news clippings.
Acquired as part of the Human Rights Archive at Duke University.
Comprises petitions, filings, documents relating to the Combatant Status Review Tribunal (CRST), and a wide variety of legal records regarding the six Bahrainis' and Guantánamo detainees' cases such as Al-Odah and Boumediene. The series documents legal efforts of their lawyers for writ of habeas corpus, writ of certiorari, amelioration of living condition at Camp Delta, and finally for the release and repatriation of their clients. The series also contain documents regarding the government's efforts to preclude attempts to attain any rights for the detainees kept extra-judicially as enemy combatants by the U.S. military at Camp Delta. The series contains extensive material related to the workings and procedures of and trials by the Combatant Status Review Tribunal (CSRT), which was established by the U.S. government on July 7, 2004. Also comprehensively covered in this series are the legal records and other documents concerning the Detainee Treatment Act of 2005 and Military Commission Act of 2006. The Bahraini detainees Al-Dossari and Al-Murbati cases are especially well-documented. The series is composed predominantly of materials in English language, but also contains many Arabic documents some of which are also translated into English. Other items include a twelve-minute unclassified audio recording on CD-R of CRST hearing for Al-Murbati (Box 4) and photographic images of the families of the detainees.
The Correspondence Series includes writings between the attorneys and client detainees, Department of Justice officials, Bahraini diplomats and officials, U.S. senators and congressmen, law scholars, and colleagues of the Dorsey & Whitney team representing the Guantanamo detainees. The writings cover issues and problems related to the legal status of Guantánamo detainees, human rights violations at Camp Delta and diplomatic efforts for the release and repatriation of the Bahraini detainees. The high-profile case of Jumah Al-Dossari is covered in depth in this series; his case became an emblematic example of the abuse and torture at Guantánamo naval base and detrimental consequences of long term solitary confinement. Also covered extensively is the Graham-Levin-Kyl Amendment approved by the Senate on November 15, 2005, which prohibits all habeas corpus claims by Guantánamo detainees and allows the military tribunals to rely on evidence gathered by the use of torture. The series mostly consists of letters, but there are also photocopies of photographic images from the visit of the lawyers to detainee relatives in Bahrain and court-related material attached to letters. The written material is largely in English; all letters written in Arabic have English translations but court-related Arabic materials are not translated.
Consists of news clippings - chiefly photocopies or printouts - compiled by the Dorsey á Whitney lawyers to document their clients' cases. This series brings together news articles regarding Bahraini Guantánamo detainees, commentaries addressing the legal process and human rights issues, and interviews with Dorsey á Whitney lawyers about the conditions at the military base and the legal and living situation of the detainees. The clippings in the collection were published by major news press and online media outlets worldwide, including The New York Times, The Washington Post, Newsweek, Time Magazine, The International Herald Tribune, Gulf Daily News, The Independent, The Guardian, BBC, Khaleej Times Online, gulfnews.com, Arab News and Aljazeera, and many others. The clippings are chiefly in English; however there are seven folders which hold many Arabic language news clippings.
Consists of electronic files, chiefly PDF and MS Word document formats, arranged into the following folders: ARB Material; Bundestag Inquiry; Catalogue of Documents; Client Notes and Declass Summaries; Correspondence; DC Admissions; Diplomacy; Kurnaz Visit and Access Info; Petitions; Press; and Protective Order and New Access Procedures.
The papers of Benjamin Newton Duke have been collected from various sources over time and span the years 1834 to 1969, although the bulk of the material dates from 1890 to 1929. The materials in the collection document the business, financial, philanthropic, and personal interests of Benjamin N. Duke and his family in Durham, NC and New York, NY, especially Duke's involvement in the tobacco, textile, banking, and hydroelectric industries and the Duke family's financial support of a variety of institutions, including educational institutions for African Americans and women, the Methodist Episcopal Church, South, and individual churches, orphanages, hospitals, and community organizations. Types of material in the collection include correspondence, financial statements and ledgers, bills and receipts, architectural blueprints and drawings, land plats, deeds, photographs, photograph albums, scrapbooks, and a diary.
Family members represented include Sarah P. Duke, Angier Buchanan Duke, Mary Duke Biddle, Washington Duke, James B. Duke, Brodie L. Duke, Lida Duke Angier, and Anthony J. Drexel Biddle, Jr. Other individuals represented include Julian S. Carr, William A. Erwin, John C. Kilgo, William P. Few, Daniel Lindsay Russell, James E. Shepard, and George W. Watts.
The Richard B. Arrington series and Alexander H. Sands, Jr. series document the personal and financial interests of Benjamin N. Duke's private secretaries in New York, NY.
The letters, memoranda, telegrams, invoices, receipts, printed reports and other items comprising this series document the financial, philanthropic, and personal interests of Benjamin N. Duke and his family. Duke family members represented in the series include Sarah P. Duke, Washington Duke, Angier B. Duke, Mary L. Duke (Mary Duke Biddle), Lida Duke Angier, Brodie L. Duke, James B. Duke, and Anthony J. Drexel Biddle, Jr. Other correspondents include John C. Angier, John S. Bassett, Warren A. Candler, Julian S. Carr, John F. Crowell, J. B. Cobb, Warren C. Coleman, Ceasar Cone, William A. Erwin, William P. Few, Robert L. Flowers, C. P. H. Gilbert, Jonathan R. Hawkins, L. L. Hobbs, Charles C. Hook, N. M. Jurney, J. C. Kilgo, W. S. Lee, John Merrick, Solomon Pool, Jeter C. Pritchard, Daniel Lindsay Russell, Thomas Settle, James E. Shepard, James H. Southgate, Andrew P. Tyer, and George W. Watts. Many of the letters were addressed to or written by Benjamin N. Duke's financial agents and secretaries in Durham, NC and New York, NY, including James E. Stagg, Richard B. Arrington, Elizabeth A. Childs, and Alexander H. Sands, Jr.
The series provides a particularly rich history of Benjamin Duke's relationship with Trinity College, documenting his role on the Board of Trustees, Executive Committee, and Building Committee as well as his financial support during and after the institution's relocation to Durham from Randolph County. There are letters to and from trustees, faculty, students, and representatives of the Methodist Church regarding the administration and financial support of the college; letters from students or their parents requesting financial assistance to attend the college; exchanges with architects and contractors regarding the design and construction of campus buildings; applications to teach for the college; and correspondence with faculty related to non-college topics, such as loans, investments, property transactions, and personal matters.
The series also documents Benjamin Duke and his family's other philanthropic activities, including their support of educational institutions for African-Americans and women, the Methodist Episcopal Church, South and individual churches, and social welfare agencies and community organizations, including orphanages and hospitals. Individual institutions represented include Elon College, Greensboro Female College, Granbery College, Guilford College, Kittrell College, Lincoln Memorial University, Louisburg Female College, the National Religious Training School and Chautauqua for the Colored Race, the New Bern Industrial and Collegiate Institute, the North Carolina College for Negroes (later North Carolina Central University), Rutherford College, Southern Conservatory of Music, Trinity College, the Bingham School, and Durham Graded Schools; Main Street Methodist Church, Duke Memorial Methodist Church, Trinity Methodist Church, and West Durham Methodist Church; North Carolina Children's Home, Oxford Orphan Asylum, Lincoln Hospital, Watts Hospital, the YMCA and YWCA of Durham, NC, and the Salvation Army.
Major industries represented in the series include tobacco, cotton and textiles, hydroelectric power, banking, mining, railroads, and real estate. Much of the business-related correspondence concerns financial matters such as notices of dividend payments and requests for stockholder subscriptions. Individual companies include the American Tobacco Company, W. Duke, Sons & Company, Asheville Cotton Mills, Cannon Manufacturing Company, Coleman Manufacturing Company, Commonwealth Cotton Manufacturing Company, Durham Cotton Manufacturing Company, Erwin Cotton Mills, Leaksville Cotton Mills, Locke Cotton Mills, Odell Manufacturing Company, Proximity Manufacturing Company, Kerr Bag Manufacturing Company, Roxboro Cotton Mills, Spray Water and Power Company, Durham Electric Lighting Company, Southern Power Company, Fidelity Bank of Durham, Citizen's National Bank of Durham, Durham and Southern Railway, Cape Fear and Northern Railway, Cary Lumber Company, Alaska Power and Dredging Company, Jim Butler Tonopah Mining Company, Seward Dredging Company, Virginia-Carolina Chemical Company, Durham Realty Corporation, Trinity Land Company, and the National Drama Corporation.
Correspondence related to the tobacco industry includes letters from executives and directors of the American Tobacco Company and its subsidiaries, including W. Duke, Sons & Company. Also included are letters from department and branch managers, legal counsel, leaf brokers and dealers, investors, merchants and salespeople, and individuals seeking employment. There is extensive correspondence between 1892 and 1902 regarding the state of the tobacco markets in North Carolina and Virginia, as well as purchases of tobacco, cutters, wrappers, and other supplies. Correspondence related to official American Tobacco Company business consists mainly of arrangements for meetings of the Board of Directors and details of investments made on behalf of the company and its executives. Also included are general updates from W. W. Fuller on legal suits faced by the company and arrangements for the conversion of American Tobacco Company stock after the dissolution of the trust.
Letters related to the textiles and hydroelectric power industries include extensive correspondence with William A. Erwin regarding the establishment, funding, operations, and expansion of the Erwin Cotton Mills. Also present are letters related to the surveying of water power sites in North Carolina and South Carolina and purchases of properties and water rights prior to the establishment of the Southern Power Company.
The Letters subseries contains primarily inbound correspondence addressed to Benjamin N. Duke. After 1905, there is an increased volume of copies of outgoing correspondence written by Duke's secretaries, much of which duplicates the correspondence found in the Letterbook subseries.
Includes a letter from Benjamin N. Duke to a New Garden School classmate and letters from George F. Wardle (agent for W. Duke, Sons & Company).
Includes correspondence with George S. Prichard regarding details of their tobacco purchasing agreement; a letter from Brodie L. Duke about his visit to England; a letter from Julian S. Carr discussing a proposal for an industrial school for girls in Durham; a letter from John Pope with a list of tobacco buyers and salaries for various markets of the American Tobacco Company for the year 1891.
Includes correspondence and statement regarding a dispute between Julian S. Carr and B.N. Duke over claims made about the American Tobacco Company; and a statement comparing cigarette sales for branches of the American Tobacco Company from April 1891 to April 1892.
Includes letters related to the death of Mary E. Lyon (Mary Duke Lyon) and the design and construction of the Duke family mausoleum.
Includes correspondence related to the "New Jersey suit" and labor and cigarette legislation.
Includes correspondence with Thomas Settle regarding cigarette and antitrust legislation and the need for a new public building in Durham; and letters from W. T. Blackwell seeking financial assistance and investment advice.
Includes James E. Shepard's proposal for building an African-American teaching college in Durham; letters from Daniel Lindsay Russell and others regarding 1896 Republican campaigns and the Fusion movement in North Carolina; and letters related to Washington Duke's endowment of Trinity College.
Includes correspondence related to the funding and construction of the [Mary E. Duke Lyon] Memorial Hall at Guilford College.
Includes letters from Governor Daniel Lindsay Russell about the Fusion movement, the 1898 election campaigns of North Carolina and their results, and personal and political troubles following the November 1898 Wilmington race riots; and a letter from Bishop W. A. Candler requesting aid for missionary work in Cuba (1898 August).
Includes letters regarding fundraising for the Braxton Craven Memorial Hall at Trinity College (1899 January); the rebuilding of the Durham Colored Graded School after a fire (1899 January-February); the construction of a Methodist church in Havana, Cuba; a letter from Julian S. Carr regarding the need for new management at the Durham Electric Lighting Company; and correspondence related to the debt of Daniel Lindsay Russell.
Includes correspondence related to the Southern Conservatory of Music (Durham, NC) building addition and the purchase of timber land in Florida.
Chas. C. Hook to J. E. Stagg, sketches of Southern Conservatory of Music addition.
Includes letters related to construction of B.N. Duke's stables (Durham, NC) and J. C. Kilgo residence; dedication of the Southern Conservatory of Music; Catawba River water power; Erwin Cotton Mills expansion; and state and national Republican campaigns; and a letter from J.S. Trice regarding the Soudan Mission in Sierra Leone (1900 March).
Includes correspondence related to the Gattis vs. Kilgo trial and appeal; Cooleemee Cotton Mills; Coleman Manufacturing Company; the endowment of Lincoln Hospital (Durham, NC); the Furches and Douglas impeachment trials (North Carolina legislature); the Guilford Battleground Commission; and the purchase of a house on 5th Ave. in New York, NY. Also includes letters (1900 December-1901 January) from Moses H. Cone regarding the sale of his finishing works; and a letter from W. B. Lee (1901 April) describing work at the Colégio Americano Granbery.
Includes letters regarding the Duke family's relocation to New York; the construction of the Trinity College library; the Gattis vs. Kilgo case; correspondence from W. A. Erwin regarding expenses from water power surveys in North Carolina; and a letter from Ceasar Cone relating his interest in establishing a cotton mill in South Carolina.
Includes correspondence related to water power surveys in North Carolina and South Carolina and a letter from James B. Duke to B.N. Duke regarding his trip to Russia (1902 January).
Includes letters related to the Erwin Mill No. 2 site in Harnett County, NC; NC and SC water power surveys; and a letter from Minnie Duke concerning her husband Brodie L. Duke (1902 April).
Includes letters related to the funding needs of Watts Hospital and Kittrell College; letters from W. A. Erwin about the new Erwin Cotton Mills sites in Cooleemee, NC and Harnett County, NC; letters from William A. Blair, Lindsay Patterson, and Jeter C. Pritchard on 1902 political campaigns; and letters related to Benjamin N. Duke's purchase of property on 5th Avenue and 76th Street, New York, NY.
B. F. Taylor to B. N. Duke: land plat for property at 5th Avenue and East 76th Street, New York, NY (Frank E. Forbes, surveyor).
Includes letters from Jonathan C. Kilgo and Greensboro Female College Alumnae Association members regarding the school's funding crisis and possible closure; and correspondence with J. B. Cobb and A. B. Carrington related to American Tobacco Company's southern tobacco markets, including sales statements for the 1902 tobacco crop.
Mary Davis Allen to B.N. Duke: ground plan for Louisburg Female College pantry.
Includes letters from Walter H. Page and Trinity College trustees regarding the John S. Bassett affair; correspondence related to the Coleman Manufacturing Company; the smallpox outbreak in Durham; Brodie L. Duke's divorce and child custody case; and fundraising for Kittrell College.
Includes letters related to Brodie L. Duke's divorce and child custody case; letters from J. M. Currin regarding tobacco operations in Australia; and a letter from George W. Watts about the establishment of the Durham Loan & Trust Company.
Includes letters from Walter H. Page and Trinity College trustees regarding the John S. Bassett affair.
Smith-Courtney to J. E. Stagg: floor plan for proposed addition to Washington Duke's residence, Durham, NC.
Includes correspondence related to the chartering of Citizen's National Bank of Durham and the illness and death of Washington Duke.
Includes proposal to enlarge the Southern Conservatory of Music (Durham, NC).
Includes correspondence related to Angier B. Duke's accident at Carteret Lodge; letter from Condé Nast describing an investment opportunity in the Home Pattern Company; and a letter from Bishop W. A. Candler regarding mission in Cuba.
Includes correspondence regarding the sale of the Coleman Manufacturing Company property (Concord, NC) and funding for a "Duke Memorial Hall" at Kittrell College.
Rosa Parrish to Sarah P. Duke, sent from Japan.
Includes correspondence related to pledges to the Durham, NC, YMCA building.
Includes letters from Charles C. Hook regarding construction plans for Duke's new Durham home (Four Acres) and correspondence related to the dedication of the Washington Duke statue at Trinity College.
Includes letters related to the debt of Daniel Lindsay Russell, and letters concerning the purchase of the Odell Manufacturing Company property and founding of Locke Cotton Mills in Concord, NC.
H. Buckenham to B. N. Duke: blueprint proposal for new athletic grounds at Trinity College.
Includes correspondence and plans related to the relocation of "The Terrace" (former Duke residence, Durham, NC).
N. Underwood to B. N. Duke: plans for new porch for relocated Durham, NC house ("The Terrace"); C. P. H. Gilbert to B. N. Duke: land plat of B. N. Duke property at 5th Avenue and E. 89th Street, New York, NY.
Includes a letter from the Tuskeegee Institute, signed by Booker T. Washington, soliciting donations to support students.
Includes correspondence with John Merrick, James E. Shepard and others related to contributions by James B. Duke and Benjamin N. Duke to Lincoln Hospital and the National Religious Training School and Chautauqua for the Colored Race; letters regarding the Main Building (Washington Duke Building) fire at Trinity College; and letters and statements related to the Trinity College building fund and campus construction.
Includes correspondence with Ceasar Cone and others regarding Cone's buyout of Asheville Cotton Mills stock and ensuing dispute with B. Frank Mebane (1911 April-June); letters and invoices related to Duke family portraits by Joaquin Sorolla (1911 June); and letters and statements related to the Trinity College building fund and campus construction.
Includes correspondence about the death and estate of John C. Angier; letters regarding the heating system for Lincoln Hospital (Durham, NC); and correspondence related to the Trinity College building fund and construction of new dormitories.
Includes correspondence with C. W. Toms and W. W. Flowers related to the construction of Memorial Methodist Church (Durham, NC); and letters from James A. Thomas regarding the conversion of his American Tobacco Company securities, with some observations on events in China.
Includes correspondence related to the construction of Memorial Methodist Church (Durham, NC) and the Administration Building and new dormitory at Trinity College.
Includes correspondence with William P. Few regarding the naming of new Trinity College dormitories after Thomas Jarvis and Charles Aycock.
Includes letter from W. A. Erwin discussing proposed legislation of the Child Labor Committee.
Hornor & Company to B. N. Duke: map of Long Island Sound, New York (Pell & Chambers, Real Estate).
W. S. Lee to B. N. Duke: land plats of Charlotte and Dilworth, NC and the A.C. Springs & Company property, Charlotte, NC.
D. M. Barringer to B. N. Duke: curves of pig iron production for the world and the United States (from Manufacturers Record); Texas Iron Association iron ore deposits diagram; blueprint map showing districts with iron ore deposits in Cass County, Texas
Includes correspondence related to a contribution by James B. Duke and Benjamin N. Duke to the endowment of Trinity College.
Includes correspondence with John C. Kilgo and others regarding the official relationship of Trinity College with the Methodist Church (1914 April).
Includes correspondence regarding the Trinity Land Company's sale of timber rights in Carteret County, NC; letter from James E. Shepard seeking assistance with the debt of the National Training School (1914 October); and a letter from Laura Drake Gill regarding a proposal for the establishment of a coordinate college for women at Trinity College (1914 November).
Includes letter from Julian S. Carr regarding the North Carolina Children's Home (1914 December); and a letter from James E. Shepard seeking assistance with the debt of the National Training School (1915 February).
Includes letters related to travel arrangements for Angier B. Duke and Cordelia Biddle Duke (1915 April), and Mary Duke Biddle and Anthony J. Duke Biddle, Jr. (1915 May) after the couples' weddings; letters from James E. Shepard regarding mortgage payments for the National Training School (1915 June); and letters regarding the Lincoln Hospital Nurses' Home and Kittrell College (1915 July).
Includes letters from W. R. Perkins and P. D. Gold regarding The National Drama Corporation and Thomas Dixon, Jr.'s film "The Fall of a Nation"; correspondence from Jonathan R. Hawkins regarding funding for Kittrell College and the African Methodist Episcopal Church; and letters regarding the construction of the stone wall around Trinity College.
Includes correspondence related to the National Drama Corporation and "The Fall of a Nation"; letters from J. C. Thorn regarding the Durham Realty Corporation; a letter from James H. Southgate discussing land in Orange County, NC; and a letter from John Merrick discussing property for a new Lincoln Hospital site.
Includes several letters from Anthony J. Drexel Biddle, Jr. to B. N. Duke, some of which express Biddle's opinions on the League of Nations (1918 May, 1918 December-1919 February); and a typescript copy of a personal letter from James B. Duke to B. N. Duke (February 1919).
Includes correspondence between Duke and William P. Few regarding the construction of Southgate Residence Hall and Alumni Memorial Gymnasium at Trinity College.
Includes correspondence related to Duke's health and financial contributions to various institutions, including Buies Creek Academy (later Campbell University), Duke's Chapel (Braggtown, Durham, NC), Kittrell College, Limestone College, Lincoln Hospital Nurses' Home, Lincoln Memorial University, North Carolina College for Negroes, Wofford College, and the YWCA (Durham, NC). Also includes Duke's letter of resignation as president of the Erwin Cotton Mills and endorsement of William A. Erwin as his replacement (1927 January 10).
Includes a typescript notice of funeral for Benjamin N. Duke, arrangements for train chartered to bring mourners to Durham from New York, contributions to Lincoln Memorial University in Duke's memory by Sarah P. Duke and Mary Duke Biddle, and copy of a memorial resolution from the Board of Trustees of Elon College.
Letters dated 1932 and later are primarily solicitatons made by North Carolina institutions that Benjamin N. Duke supported during his lifetime, including Kittrell College, the North Carolina College for Negroes, Lincoln Hospital, and West Durham Methodist Church. Also included is a letter from Ora J. Swing to Doris Duke Cromwell, describing the friendship of Kate Reynolds, Swing's mother, with Benjamin and Mary Duke at New Garden School in 1871-1872. Swing enclosed a letter written by Benjamin to Kate dated June 24, 1872, the original of which is filed chronologically in the Correspondence series, folder "1872, 1877, 1879."
These folders contain a disbound volume of typescript copies of condolences sent to Benjamin and Sarah Duke on the death of Angier B. Duke. An alphabetical index of correspondents is included.
The fragile letterbooks consist of bound carbon-copies of outgoing correspondence as well as scattered financial statements. Most letterbooks include alphabetical indexes of correspondents. Letters from Duke's Durham and New York offices are bound separately, with some overlap in time periods covered. As correspondents directed letters to city in which Duke was thought to presently inhabit, correspondence issued by either office of origin was not limited to topics particular to that location.
There are also occasional outgoing letters from Angier B. Duke and Washington Duke, with the latter correspondence mainly concerning responses to requests for financial assistance.
The materials in the Financial series reflect the personal, business and philanthropic interests of Benjamin Newton Duke. Types of records present include bills, charitable contributions, check stubs, invoices, statements of accounts, tax statements, receipts, stock transactions, trial balances, household and petty cash accounts, brokerage account statements and correspondence. Materials related to the finances of James B. Duke include financial statements and correspondence of the Southern Investment Company of Canada and scattered, miscellaneous statements.
B. N. Duke's financial ledgers and official bookkeeping responsibilities were transferred from his Durham office to his New York office in May 1901.
The General subseries contains materials related to the general financial transactions of Benjamin N. Duke and his family. The bills, invoices, receipts, and invoice books at the beginning of the subseries are primarily related to household and personal expenditures in Durham, NC and New York, NY. Also represented in the General subseries are transactions involving domestic and international travel for personal and business purposes; medical expenses; automobile purchases and maintenance; art and personal photograph purchases; loans to and from B.N. Duke, including repayments and interest payments; construction of and improvements to residences in Durham and New York; construction of and improvements to Trinity College buildings and grounds; agricultural and construction supplies for Duke's farm in Orange County, NC; and financial contributions to Trinity College and other philanthropic interests of the Duke family.
Commissary charges, Pullman Car Company (1906); Rolls Royce automobile order form (Angier B. Duke) (1912).
The list of total charitable contributions from 1892 through 1928 is arranged by category of institution: schools, churches, hospitals, orphanages and miscellaneous. The list of annual charitable contributions for the years 1925-1928 is arranged alphabetically by institution name. Also included is a list of dividends for investments made on behalf of North Carolina institutions, acquaintances and family members.
These materials are related to Benjamin N. Duke's effort in the mid-1920s to identify and provide financial gifts to relatives on the Duke and Roney sides of the family. They include tables of disbursments made to family members and correspondence with Alexander H. Sands, Jr. related to the project. As the family research was later used to settle claims against the James B. Duke estate, related correspondence can found in the James Buchanan Duke Papers: Correspondence and Estate series.
Entities covered by these policies include Benjamin N. Duke, Angier B. Duke, and the Fidelity Bank of Durham.
The church documents include Building Committee minutes, bylaws, and correspondence related to the construction of the new church (completed 1887) and a 1911 condensed financial statement. The correspondence includes two June 1888 letters between Julian S. Carr and Benjamin N. Duke regarding subscriptions from the Trinity Methodist Church congregation.
The financial statements include statements of accounts with Benjamin N. Duke and condensed cash statements for the company's New York office.
The statement details the receipts and disbursements for academic building, administrative building, and East Dormitory in March 1911.
The Banking subseries contains deposit slips, check stubs, and other banking records for the accounts of Benjamin N. Duke and his family.
The Investments subseries contains account statements, correspondence, ledgers, stock certificates, and other materials documenting the financial investments of Benjamin N. Duke and family. It includes monthly financial statements from the numerous New York brokerage firms that Duke engaged to manage his investments, including Dominick and Dickerman, Moore and Schley, Halsted and Harrison, Newberger, Henderson and Loeb, and Daniel O'Dell and Company. To a lesser extent, the subseries includes statements for investments made through Duke's brokerage accounts by family, friends, and business associates.
The brokerage account correspondence includes discussion of stock market trends and the financial impact of world events, such as the Spanish American War and World War I. Also included are letters from Joseph Catlin, who negotiated stock sales on behalf of the Riverside Cotton Mills. Southern Investment Company of Canada materials include correspondence related to the incorporation of the company and activities in the Saguenay River area of Quebec.
Outgoing brokerage account and other financial correspondence is located in the Correspondence series, Letterbooks subseries.
Dominick to B. N. Duke: Kansas City, Mexico and Orient Railway prospectus.
These documents include statements of rental receipts for account of B. N. Duke, income statements, and other accounting materials related to the management of Duke's rental properties in New York. The properties represented include Marc Antony Apartments, Prince Humbert Apartments, The Paterno, and 200 West 58th Street apartments.
Statements are included for each tenant of Marc Antony Apartments, New York, NY, showing rents and utilities paid for each month.
Includes the investments of Angier B.Duke, Mary Duke Biddle, Sarah P. Duke, Anthony J. Drexel Biddle, Jr., and Cordelia Biddle Duke.
Account sheets for James B. Duke and Southern Investment Company [of Canada?]
A majority of the documents in the Legal series pertain to property transactions of Benjamin Newton Duke and other individuals in Orange County, NC and Durham, NC. Property deeds dating from 1838 show changes in ownership of land that Duke eventually purchased. Other papers include architectural contracts, plans and specifications, trust indentures, a legal brief, copies of the wills of Benjamin N. Duke and Washington Duke, and materials related to the execution of the estates of Angier B. Duke and Benjamin N. Duke.
Includes an abstract of title and notes of attornies W. W. Fuller and Cobb & Merrimon.
Includes an 1892 trust agreement among Duke family members for the use and maintenance of the mausoleum in Durham (now Maplewood) Cemetery.
The estate documents include an appraisal of real and personal property at 2 East 89th Street, 1009 5th Avenue, and 535 5th Avenue in New York, NY; a power of attorney from Sarah P. Duke to Mary Duke Biddle; and a memorandum written by Anthony J. Drexel Biddle, Jr.
Legal documents include a printed copy of "Complaint and Summons, Richard H. Wright against James B. Duke, Benjamin N. Duke, Brodie L. Duke, George W. Watts" (New York Supreme Court).
Beneficiaries of this agreement include Albert Armstrong (coachman), Caroline Barnes (servant), Joseph Bynum (butler), Frank Davis (yardman), and Addie Evans (cook).
The bulk of the Business series consists of published and unpublished periodic financial reports from businesses in which Benjamin N. Duke had a financial interest, as well as investment prospectuses and circulars. A limited number of corporate records, such as acts of incorporation, bylaws and meeting minutes, also appear and are noted in the contents list. The industries represented include banking, cotton and textiles, railroads, power and utilities, and tobacco.
The map is labeled in pencil on back: "Lookout Shoals."
This series contains material related to the personal interests of Benjamin N. Duke and his immediate family. It includes Sarah P. Duke's diary (1927-1929) and recipes; genealogical material; honorary degree certificates; a B. N. Duke suit pattern; a scrapbook of the condolences sent to the Duke family upon the death of B. N. Duke; and other material pertaining to funerals, memorials, and tributes to B. N. Duke, Sarah P. Duke, James B. Duke, and Angier B. Duke. The series also contains printed materials, including a bible, cookbook, poetry volumes, and pamphlets and resolutions related to Benjamin N. Duke's philanthropic activities.
Includes report of Virginia Delta Chapter (University of Virginia) to Plato T. Durham, Provincial Chief, and approved applications by students for membership in the Beta Xi (College of Charleston, SC), Alpha Delta (University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill), and Xi (Trinity College) chapters of the fraternity.
Obituaries for Sarah P. Duke.
Clippings of articles related to the Duke family and their acquaintences as well as domestic advice columns and articles about Trinity College. Includes wedding and anniversary announcements for Benjamin N. Duke and Sarah P. Duke, a wedding announcement for Brodie L. Duke, and obituaries for Mary E. Lyon and George Washington Duke.
Includes Plato Tracy Durham poem dedicated to A. B. Duke and excerpts from letters written to B. N. Duke in reaction to the poem.
Includes a church service program, lists of pallbearers and other funeral service participants, and a list of individuals who sent condolences to the family.
Honorary degrees awarded to Benjamin N. Duke by Oglethorpe University and Lincoln Memorial University.
Telegrams and letters of condolence to family members, calling cards, and clippings on the death and legacy of Benjamin Newton Duke.
Includes program of exercises, prayer by Dr. M. Bradshaw, address by university president W. P. Few, resolution of the faculty, and 5 photographs from the funeral procession of B.N. Duke.
A Morning Prayer and Other Beautiful Prayers by Robert Louis Stevenson, Dodge Publishing Company, New York, circa 1907. The inscription by Kilgo is dated Christmas 1907.
Impressions of and programs for twenty plays attended by Mary L. Duke (Mary Duke Biddle) with family and friends. Duke recorded information for each play according to the forms provided by the scrapbook publisher, with varying levels of completeness. The forms include fields for theater name, companions, seats, impressions of the play, criticism of the performance, and criticism of individual actors.
Sarah P. Duke's diary is "A Line A Day" notebook with very brief notes about activities, visitors, travel plans, weather, health of family members and friends, and other aspects of daily life.
Copies of eulogy delivered by Dr. Ralph W. Sockman; typed and written lists of individuals who sent sympathy notes and flowers.
1887 edition of "Whitehead's family recipes." There are handwritten recipes inscribed at the front and back of the volume, presumably by Sarah P. Duke.
Pamphlets, circulars, and other materials related to the social, religious, philanthropic and political interests of the Duke family.
Pamphlets, circulars, and other materials related to the social, religious, philanthropic and political interests of the Duke family.
Pamphlets, circulars, and other materials related to the social, religious, philanthropic and political interests of the Duke family.
Pamphlets, circulars, and other materials related to the social, religious, philanthropic and political interests of the Duke family.
Vol. 1 contains a table of contents and congratulatory letters from Duke's friends and acquaintances.
Vol. 2 contains photographs of the Trinity College campus.
The Pictures series contains bound and disbound albums, photographs, and one mirror with attached photographs. Photographs of individuals and groups include Benjamin N. Duke, Sarah P. Duke, Angier B. Duke, Mary Duke Biddle, members of the extended family, and acquaintances. The series also contains photographs of buildings and places connected with the Duke family and its philanthropic efforts, including the Benjamin N. Duke and Sarah P. Duke family residence at Four Acres, Durham, NC, and structures and property connected to Trinity College.
Album I includes cabinet cards, mainly of individuals, with an index of known and probable photograph subjects. Individuals represented in the album include Woodward W. Duke (son of Brodie L. Duke), Angier Buchanan Duke, Sarah P. Duke, James Buchanan Duke, Sally Angier Duke, Lillie Irene Duke, James Edward Stagg, Benjamin Newton Duke, Mary E. (Duke) Lyon, Robert E. Lyon, Arthur H. Merritt, Malbourn Addison Angier, John Cicero Angier, Mary Angier Stokes, Inez Duke Angier (Stokes), Washington Duke (circa 1870s), Brodie L. Duke, and several other unidentified individuals, many of them infants and young children.
Album II contains cabinet cards, mainly of individuals, with an index of known and probable photograph subjects. Individuals represented include Bishop Charles Betts Galloway, Reverend William S. Black, Grover Cleveland, Frances Folsom Cleveland, Lida Duke Angier, Samuel Jones Angier, H. J. Bass (tobacconist), Benjamin Newton Duke, James Buchanan Duke, Angier Buchanan Duke, Mary E. (Duke) Lyon, Malbourn Addison Angier, Mary Lillian Duke (Biddle), Maude Duke (Karnes), and several unidentified individuals.
This album includes pictures of Cordelia Drexel Biddle Duke and her children, Angier Biddle Duke and Anthony Drexel Duke, and various unidentified individuals.
Cabinet card prints by Anderson's of New York, NY.
Possibly an anniversary portrait.
Group photograph of Benjamin N. Duke, Sarah P. Duke, James B. Duke, Angier B. Duke, Mary L. Duke (Mary Duke Biddle), and unidentified woman in front of a house.
Individuals pictured include James Buchanan Duke, Benjamin Newton Duke, Mary Duke Biddle, Robert Lee Flowers, and Lily Parrish Flowers. The notes on back of photographs were written by Dr. Lenox Baker (son-in-law of R. and L. Flowers).
These photographs were taken at Point Lookout and Sunset Rock. See Correspondence series: J. J. Ingalls to B. N. Duke, November 9, 1892.
The photographs depict the funeral procession from Duke Memorial Church and its spectators along Chapel Hill Street, Durham, North Carolina; students and faculty honoring Duke at Duke University (East Campus); and the Duke family mausoleum in Maplewood Cemetery. The program of exercises includes the address by President W. P. Few, resolutions of the faculty of Duke University, and a prayer by Dr. M. Bradshaw.
Individuals pictured include Benjamin N. Duke, Sarah P. Duke, Anthony Drexel Biddle, and various unidentified adults and children. According to note accompanying photograph, the picture was taken inside the house at 2 E. 82nd Street, New York, NY.
Includes a photograph of Sarah P. Duke in a coach with children Angier B. Duke and Mary L. Duke (Mary Duke Biddle), circa 1888-1890.
Possibly an anniversary portrait.
Full-length photographs, possibly taken for the fifteenth wedding anniversary of Benjamin N. Duke and Sarah P. Duke (1892).
Portrait by the Halladay Studio, Durham, NC (1906), and an undated portrait by the Lafayette studio in London.
Cut-out images of Washington Duke, Brodie L. Duke, James B. Duke, Benjamin N. Duke, and Mary E. Duke (Mary Duke Lyon) under glass layer of framed mirror. Photographs circa 1870s.
The children pictured are likely those of Mary Washington Lyon Stagg and James Edward Stagg.
Individuals represented include Reuben Oscar Everett and others outside the White House, Washington, DC; James Acero Angier, circa 1880s; James Haywood Southgate, circa 1890s; and other unidentified persons.
Lockwood was a Physics and Biology professor who experimented with photography. His "trick" photographs include "Frog Pond," Professor Jerome Dowd playing chess with himself, and a composite of four views of Mary Lillian Duke (Mary Duke Biddle). Also included is a photograph of the Moses Hester church [Berea Christian Church] and house in Durham, NC.
The house, located on N. Buchanan Blvd., was first occupied by Professor J. S. Bassett and later by Frank C. Brown
The photographs depict the partially-built structure of the church (designed by the firm of Horace Trumbauer) and construction workers in the foreground.
These prints related to the construction of Duke University West Campus were sent by Frank C. Brown to Benjamin N. Duke, with an accompanying letter. They include photographs of the site for the "new buildings" (Duke University West Campus?) and the site of new highway through Duke University property.
These photographs depict the excavation, grading, and tree removal related to construction of new East Campus buildings. Individuals pictured include Robert L. Flowers and Frank C. Brown, laborers and various onlookers. Also pictured are the original library and Alspaugh residence hall, which were relocated to Kittrell College, North Carolina.
These photographs depict a parade celebrating Benjamin N. Duke's endowment gift to the college.
These photographs include views of "The Terrace" (the former Duke residence that was relocated for the construction of Four Acres), the Southgate Jones House, and other buildings, workers and equipment.
Materials in the Duke Farm series include correspondence, financial documents, a hand-colored land plat, and photographs related to the farm that Benjamin N. Duke owned in Orange County, NC. The letters are mainly between the successive farm superintendents employed by Duke, including J.T. Hogan, I. A. Hogan, and Weldon Riley, and J. E. Stagg and E. A. Childs, Duke's financial agents in Durham, NC. Other correspondents include equipment and agricultural suppliers and contractors.
Topics represented in the series include requests for money and instructions on farm management; the purchase of implements, machinery and livestock; the construction of barns and other farm improvements; and requests for farm products to be delivered to Duke's Durham house and other locations. There is also scattered correspondence related to the finances and health of the Hogan family.
The Richard B. Arrington series is composed of the personal papers of Benjamin Newton Duke's personal secretary and business agent, who worked in the New York office. This series includes letters, letterbook, accounts, check stubs, and receipts. The correspondence covers two periods: 1903-1907 and 1911-1914. From 1903 to 1907 the major focus is building and furnishing a house on Ridgeview Road in White Plains, N.Y. From 1911 the emphasis is on Arrington's business interests, including stock transactions and insurance. Since Arrington died April 17, 1913, the remainder of the correspondence (1913-1914) concerns his estate. His wife, Ethel Lewis Arrington, carried on much of the estate's business. The accounts, check stubs and receipts pertain to Arrington's general business activities; the major focus is on stock transactions especially of the Piedmont Syndicate. Much of his business parallels his work for Benjamin Newton Duke.
The materials in this series document the personal and financial interests of Alexander H. Sands, Jr., a secretary and business agent for Benjamin N. Duke in New York, NY. The series includes letters, letterbooks, account book, check registers, check stubs, a daybook, ledger and receipts. The correspondence, 1910-1918, primarily concerns Sands's family matters and personal business interests. He also supported both his parents, Mary Harvey Sands and Tucker K. Sands. The remainder of Sands's papers details stock transactions and other business activities, including those of the Southern Audit Company of New York, Inc., of which Sands was a partner.
The Doris Duke Memorabilia Collection is part of the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation Historical Archives which were donated to the David M. Rubenstein Rare Book & Manuscript Library by the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation. The collection is artificial in nature, created by combining personal artifacts belonging to Doris Duke. The artifacts widely vary, yet tend to reflect what was important to Miss Duke including travel, philanthropy, growing orchids, and music. Of particular interest are those items from Doris Duke's childhood including scrapbooks, yearbooks, and homework assignments.
The Doris Duke Memorabilia Collection covers the period 1898 to 2011 and is divided into 5 series: Awards and Tributes, Indentification and Membership Cards, Invitations, Miscellaneous, and Postcards. The materials are loosely arranged in chronological order.
This series contains an assortment of materials related to the broad and varied personal activities of Doris Duke including growing and showing orchids, farming, and philanthropy.
This series contains an assortment of invitations to a variety of events. Also includes invitations to openings of exhibits featuring Doris Duke or her collections.
This series materials that did not fit into the other series. It contains a wide assortment of materials covering a wide range of topics including appointment books, scrapbooks, music composition books, newspaper clippings, and portraits of Doris Duke. Of particular interest are the caricatures by Vincenzo Zito for Doris Duke Cromwell's 26th birthday party.
This subseries contains carictures by Vincenzo Zito for Doris Duke Cromwell's 26th birthday. Below are the names of the guests that presumably attended the party and who portrait was done by Zito.
The postcards in this series vary widely. Postcards include those relating to Duke Farms that were collected by the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, postcards collected by Doris Duke, and on a lesser scale postcards sent to Doris Duke.
Collection consists primarily of letters from Alfred Weimer Dula to his wife Adelaide (Mast) Dula and letters from Harry Stuart Hickman to his wife Elizabeth (Dula) Hickman. Both families were residents of Lenoir, N.C. and members of the Dula family that were related to Tom Dula. Many of the letters deal with experiences during World War II. Alfred Dula was one of the first optometrists in N.C. and wrote to his wife while travelling to small towns. Harry Hickman wrote from Aviation Medical School, San Antonio, Texas. There are other miscellaneous letters to and from various family members, some from abroad. There is one 20th c. travel diary of a trip from Montreal to points in Europe.
Collection contains correspondence, legal and financial papers, a travel diary, military currency, and picture postcards.
Collection consists of Duncan's correspondence, including both personal and professional communications with family, friends, and colleagues, including other judges such as Clarence Thomas, John Roberts, Diane Wood, J. Harvie Wilkinson III, William Traxler Jr., and several others; press clippings and articles about Duncan's activities as president for the NC Bar Association and her appointment to and service on the U.S. Court of Appeals (4th Circuit); copies of speeches and programs from her various professional activities for Duke Law School and NC Central Law School, among other appearances; assorted materials from her work for the NC Utilities Commission and Kilpatrick Stockton law firm; her diplomas and awards; some family history materials from her parents and other relatives, including her aunt Helen Blackburn and uncle Armour Blackburn; and assorted photographs, largely unlabelled. Also includes published opinions for the NC Court of Appeals and NC Utility Commission and writings by Duncan.
Personal and professional correspondence saved by Duncan, documenting her communications with friends and family; her law clerks and other chamber staff; other judges, including Clarence Thomas, John Roberts, Diane Wood, J. Harvie Wilkinson III, William Traxler Jr., and several others. Much of the correspondence documents Duncan's personal activities, including gifts, special occasions, and hobbies. There are also letters congratulating her on various speeches, awards, and appointments. Separate folders contain letters celebrating her NC Bar Association election and her appointment to the Fourth Circuit.
Primarily correspondence for personal appearances in classes and on panels, including moot court competitions.
Includes testimony transcripts; an article about Duncan as Utilities Commissioner written during the Clarence Thomas/Anita Hill investigation; a copy of her appointment; and a celebratory Black History Month publication.
Press articles and coverage of Duncan's election and term as first African American president of the NCBA.
Press coverage, editorials, and other materials supporting Duncan's nomination, hearing, and investiture to the Fourth Circuit.
Questionnaires, letters of support, forms, transcripts, memoranda, and oath of office for the Fourth Circuit.
News coverage about Fourth Circuit activities and rulings, some quote Duncan.
Includes two resumes and a photograph of Duncan with George H. W. Bush.
UNC_TV North Carolina People episode #3321 featuring Duncan
Programs, pamphlets, and other materials collected by Duncan documentating her participation in various public events, including speeches and ceremonies. Files also contain invitations, logistical arrangements, and some drafts of her remarks as the invited speaker.
Programs and brochures from ceremonies and events. Includes a certificate for a Women's History Month celebration, material from a Campbell University School of Law convocation, and a commencement program from the University of Connecticut (2006), from which Duncan received an honorary degree.
Harvard Law School Charles Hamilton Houston Institute for Race and Justice signed conference poster.
Includes Armour Blackburn's 1948 diploma from Columbia University.
Includes Duncan's Duke Law School diploma, her appointment to the N.C. Court of Appeals (1990), her appointment to the Board of Public Telecommunications Commissioners, and her admission as an attorney to the U.S. Court of Appeals (4th Circuit), the NC State Bar, the North Carolina Eastern District Court, and the U.S. Supreme Court.
Digital image files in JPEG format.
Decisions and dissenting and concurring opionions.
Dissenting opinions.
Reference materials.
Briefs and articles by Duncan.
The Durham, North Carolina City/County Charter Commission records contain correspondence, financial records, reports, statements, memoranda, polls, minutes, maps, and other documents from the Durham City/County Charter Commission. The organization was formed to draft a charter for the consolidation of the Durham City and Durham County governments, and was chaired by E.K. Powe. The group was aided by the Institute of Government at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, as well as the Atlanta, Georgia firm Public Research and Management, Inc. Most materials date from 1971 to 1974.
[Original audiovisual materials are closed to use. Use of these materials may require production of listening or viewing copies. Please contact Research Services before coming to use this collection.]
Minutes, financial records, correspondence, memorabilia, and other materials from various Durham labor unions and their local umbrella organization, the Durham Central Labor Union. Accession 2001-0007 has been interfiled with accession 1999-0158.
The individual unions include: Tobacco Workers International Union Local 183; International Association of Bridge, Structural, and Ornamental Iron Workers Local 636; International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 553; United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America Local 522; Painters and Decorators Local 678; Plumbers and Steamfitters Local 585, Office Employees International Union Local 84; International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, and Helpers Local 81; and Bricklayers, Masons, and Plasterer's International Union Local 10.
See also Oversize.
See also Oversize.
See also oversize.
Collection comprises the archives of this organization and consist of minutes, reports, correspondence, programs, financial records, posters, director's notes, stage design, black-and-white and color photographs, music videocassettes, color slides, and clippings. Includes "The Savoyards, Durham Savoyards Limited, 1989" and "Mindful of the Whys and Wherefores; a Savoyard Producer's Journal" by James L. Parmentier. There are a few photographs that pre-date the founding of the Savoyards in 1963; they feature images of comic operas performed at the Southern Conservatory of Music in Durham.
Oversize publicity posters and clippings relating to various Savoyards productions
Set Design for Sorcerer, 1979
set Design for Iolanthe, 1976
Check in poster for Ruddigore, 1979
Drawings for set of Ruddigore[?], undated
Contains correspondence, notes, programs, printed material, clippings and other material related to Utopia, The Mikado and the Durham Savoyards 20th reunion.
Videocassettes of performances, mainly Pirates of Penzance.
Notebook for the production The Sorcerer, 1989. Contains notes, reviews, calendars, correspondence, libretto, and other materials. Also contains Mindful of the Whys and Wherefores; a Savoyard producer's journal by James L. Parmentier.
Contains correspondence, financial papers, director's notes for shows, publicity, minutes for board of director's meetings, and production information, including casting and budget details.
Collection of letters to Eastman from civil engineer Charles Sloane; journalist and social reformer Paul Underwood Kellogg; drama critic Clayton Meeker Hamilton; Eastman's secondary school friend Ida Langdon, who was attending Bryn Mawr; an unidentified friend, Summer Robinson, and various other people (including Eastman's sister, Dorothy). The primary topic of the letters is the individual correspondent's relationship with Eastman; many are love letters. Includes a folder of poetry and literature sent to Eastman by unidentified correspondents. There are no letters by Eastman in the collection.
Charles Sloane was a civil engineer based in Colorado, Utah, and California. Topics of his letters include their long-distance relationship and his love for Eastman, marriage, his study of Eastern philosophy, equality between the sexes, and their possible meeting. He describes his work, graft in his profession, his sale and purchase of stock in various companies, and the western scenes he encounters.
Paul Underwood Kellogg was an American journalist and social reformer. Topics of the letters include descriptions of his life outdoors and his vacations, and his relationship with and love for Eastman.
Clayton Meeker Hamilton was an American drama critic. Topics of the letters include his friendship with Eastman, his writing and theater work, her career plans, and his travel.
Ida Langdon was a secondary school friend of Eastman who attended Bryn Mawr College. Topics of the letters include stories of their friends in common; Langdon's studies at Bryn Mawr, especially Latin; fellow students she admires; her attendance at the theater and opinions of various actors and actresses; along with visits to Philadelphia and New York. Includes one letter from Langdon's mother, Julia Olivia Landon regarding the death of a relative.
Includes a few letters from Summer Robinson, Letters from various people (including Eastman's sister, Dorothy), along with poetry and literature sent to Eastman.
Collection contains the complete run of non-sports, non-fiction boxed trading card sets produced by Eclipse Enterprises between 1989 and 1993. Titles include: Rotten to the Core: The Best and Worst of New York City's Politics; Bush League Trading Cards; Friendly Dictators Trading Cards, Featuring 36 of America's Most Embarrassing Allies; The Rock Bottom Awards: The Best and Worst in Bad Taste; Coup D'Etat: The Assassination of John F. Kennedy; Foul Ball Trading Cards: Baseball's Greatest Scandals, Scoundrels, and Screw-Ups; Savings and Loan Scandal Trading Cards; Drug Wars Trading Cards: The Straight Dope on America's Dirtiest Deals; Iran-Contra Scandal Trading Cards, Featuring the Secret Team; and AIDS Awareness Trading Cards.
Text: Perry Gaskill, William Livingstone, Catherine Yronwode, Althaea Yronwode. Illustrations: Greg Loudon, Charles Hiscock. Includes a sample package with condom.
Editor: Catherine Yronwode. Writer: Paul Brancato. Art: Salim Yaqub.
Editor: Catherine Yronwode. Text: Paul Brancato. Art: Bill Sienkiewicz.
Editor: Catherine Yronwode. Writers: Paul Brancato and Bob Callahan. Art: Salib Yaqub.
Editor: Catherine Yronwode. Text: Gary Cohen. Art: William Cone.
Editor: Catherine Yronwode. Writers: Dennis Bernstein and Laura Sydell. Art: Bill Sienkiewicz.
Editor: Catherine Yronwode. Writer: Paul Brancato. Art: Salim Yaqub.
Editor: Catherine Yronwode. Writer: Peggy Gordon. Art: Bill Sienkiewicz.
Editor: Catherine Yronwode. Writers: Peggy Gordon and Dean Mullaney. Artists: Rick Bryant and George Kochell.
Editor: Catherine Yronwode. Writers: Dennis Bernstein and Laura Sydell. Artist: Stewart Stanyard. Whip: Paul Brancato.
Collection contains personal and business correspondence, legal and financial papers, printed materials, photographs, and other materials from lumber businesses beginning before 1910, especially in East Tennessee and in the Philippine Islands with headquarters in Philadelphia, Pa. The Insular Lumber Co., Negros Island, P.I., produced mahogany. Also present in the collection are personal and family papers, including numerous photographs and letters to the Edgcombs from friends.
Many Christmas cards from the 1930s-1950s are present, along with many personal letters to Ruth and Alfred Edgcomb. Also includes a deed, some photographs, and several issues of the Philadelphia weekly entertainment newspaper, 1980s.
Includes hundreds of pieces of correspondence, including a small portion housed in small box, sent to Ruth Evelyn Blackwell before she married Alfred Edgcomb.
The collection includes eight business account books of Effinger & Aiken, a wholesale firm located in Baltimore, Maryland, together with roughly 350 related business correspondence and papers. The account books document the firm's sale and shipping of goods such as crockery, glassware, wooden items, hardware, tools, and building materials throughout the southern Atlantic states. Each of two leather-bound ledgers begins with an alphabetical index listing the customer and internal accounts recorded within the ledger and their corresponding page numbers. The related business correspondence and papers, which chiefly document the firm's difficulties with debt collection, are loosely inserted in these ledgers near the associated customer accounts. Four cloth-bound daybooks record customer names with itemized purchase and/or payment transactions each day. The daybook with entries from 1895 to 1896 most likely does not pertain to the transactions of Effinger & Aiken. One small, cloth-bound account book records, in tabular form, amounts "Collect," "Cash," "Credit," and "Wholesale" for each day of the month from June 1905 to July 1920; and another small, cloth-bound account book records daily collections from 1906 to 1907.
Collection comprises a diary (124 pgs.) maintained by an unidentified woman who was educated, knowledgeable about sailing, and quite religious, during her voyages and travels around the northern coast of Scotland to cities in Norway, Sweden, the Netherlands, Belgium, England, France, and Spain. The diary began with a business trip, when she accompanied her husband (who was likely captain of the unnamed ship), from Workington, Eng., to Horten, Norway, in order to deliver a cargo of rails to the Norwegian government. The rest of the travel was apparently for pleasure. The author described ocean and weather conditions, with emphasis on dangers for ships; lighthouses; shipwrecks; landscapes; architecture; historic sites and ruins; castles; cathedrals and churches; palaces; paintings, sculptures, and artists; bridges and engineers; and gardens. She also commented on the inhabitants of and various practices in individual European countries, often in comparison to England, and with a particular focus on the women in each country. She made occasional literary references. More often she interwove her Evangelical beliefs into her descriptions, with references to the resurrection of the dead, comments on Protestant denominations, and strongly worded anti-Catholic sentiments. Includes visits to William Thorburn, who was then British Consul to Sweden; Antwerp's Cathedral of Our Lady; Waterloo battlefield; the Norman Cathedral at Durham; and the Castle site at Newcastle.
This collection has been arranged into nine series, most of which reflect the life and work of J. Claude Evans. One series, the Maxilla Evans Materials series, relates exclusively to Maxilla Evans' interests in birding, bird breeding, and horticulture, and also includes some of her writings, correspondence, family history, and other collected materials.
One of the largest series relating to J. Claude Evans is the Sermons series, with sermons arranged alphabetically by title. Files in this series reflect Evans' own arrangement of his papers, which typically include sermon copies with annotations punctuating his delivery and emphasis, notes and research about the subject, lists of when the sermon was preached and at which church, and occasionally bulletins from various services. Sermon topics varied widely, with many fairly liberal sermons on controversial issues like women's rights, abortion, racism, drugs, communism, atheism, and homosexuality.
Another large component of the collection is the Subject Files series, collected by Evans to support his research and writings both as a pastor and a columnist. This series includes many clippings, notes, and other materials curated by Evans, and is also arranged alphabetically by subject.
Evans' Correspondence is arranged into alphabetical and thematic sub-series. Most of the correspondence is sorted alphabetically by correspondent, unless Evans purposefully collected and grouped a batch of letters together under another heading; usually these are letters he received in reaction to an article or sermon on controversial issues like race, abortion, and so on. Evans also separated letters between him and Maxilla during World War II and his other travels. These headings are listed beneath the alphabetical correspondence files.
Evans' Personal Files relate to largely non-pastoral or counseling topics, including his childhood, marriage and family, military life, family history and photographs, and scrapbooks. The Pastoral Activities series includes Evans' materials from various churches and community organizations such as the Intentional Growth Center, as well as counseling and theology professional memberships. This series also includes a small amount of audiocassettes recording Evans' devotionals, seminar workshops, and other speaking engagements. Finally, the Courses and Notes series contains most of Evans' handwritten notes from the many seminars, workshops, and classes he both took and taught during his long career as a pastor and counselor.
Evans' prolific Writings began while he was a student in the 1930s and continued until he retired from writing columns for the Waynesville Mountaineer in 2000. The series is arranged into Published Articles, Drafts, and Prayers. Within the Drafts are Evans' multiple working copies of his Mountaineer columns, arranged alphabetically by title. (Copies of the published versions are filed chronologically under Published Articles.) Additional reactions to Evans' writings can also be found in the Correspondence series. The Prayers are unsorted, except for a batch of prayer cards organized by subject, kept by Evans during his chaplaincy at SMU.
The Printed Materials series contains texts both written, edited, and collected by Evans, including college yearbooks, bound copies of the Methodist Advocate dating from his tenure as editor, and other books that reference Evans and his work as an abortion counselor.
This series contains sermons written and preached by J. Claude Evans throughout his career. The materials include handwritten and typed drafts, notes, and some reference materials such as magazine or newspaper clippings. Many of the sermons were revised and reused throughout the decades, and Evans's own lists of the places and dates he preached particular sermons are often included with the text.
Evans's sermons address a broad range of subjects. Most of them address contemporary socio-political topics, issues of faith and Christianity, or, frequently, both. Examples of sermons that address the Christian faith directly include seasonal, sacramental, or celebratory topics such as "Advent Joy," "What Can I Believe about Baptism?" or a variety of sermons for weddings. Also included are sermons about belief and the place of religion in modern life, such as "Liturgy and Life" and "Science and Religion: A Needless Argument."
More numerous are the sermons which address contemporary socio-political issues and current events. These sermons address abortion (as in "The Problem of Unwanted Pregnancies"), race ("Racism: A Contemporary Wilderness"), women ("Are Women Really Persons?"), homosexuality ("My Sister Was a Lesbian"), communism and politics (as in "Marxist Communism and the Christian Faith"), marriage and family ("My Son Was a Runaway" and "Enduring Marriage: An Impossible Possibility") and, later, dementia and illness.
The sermons are filed alphabetically by title.
The Subjects series includes an assortment of newspaper and magazine articles, advertisements, and other clippings, including materials from numerous religious periodicals such as the Methodist Advocate. Evans collected much of this material while researching subjects for his sermons and columns. The subjects reflect current events, especially of the 1960s and 70s, as well as theological issues.
Subjects contained within the series can for the most part be grouped under three categories; current events, counseling, and faith or religion. A sample of subject files from the current events group include information on the Berkeley riots, capital punishment, the draft, energy, homosexuality, J.F.Kennedy's assassination, modern medicine and health care, and playboys and playmates, among many others. There are additional materials related to the abortion issue that Evans collected in an album, which is included in the Personal series.
Subjects pertaining to counseling include files on anxiety, apathy, death and hope, depression, grief, hypnotism, and suicide. Subjects regarding faith include documents on the bible, Catholicism, church and state, evangelism, vocation, and files on other pastors such as Billy Graham, among others. There are also a number of files labeled "Column Ideas" which include materials that Evans had specifically put aside as sources for his writing.
The Subject series is filed alphabetically by subject.
The Correspondence series contains letters, greeting cards, postcards, notes, and telegrams sent to and by J. Claude Evans throughout his lifetime. These letters include personal correspondence such as Christmas cards, correspondence with Evans's wife, Maxilla, and other family members, and a number of letters exchanged while Evans was stationed at various locations while serving in the navy and during later trips to Central and Eastern Europe. For additional personal letters to Evans's family, please see the scrapbooks and albums in the Personal series.
The majority of the letters concern professional matters, such as Evans's sermons, appointments at Clemson, SMU, and the Mountaineer, correspondence regarding Evans's counseling practice, and exchanges with colleagues at various institutions. Some letters were written to Evans in response to controversial subjects as abortion or race which he addressed in his sermons and columns.
The Correspondence series is filed alphabetically by the correspondent's last name with the exception of certain file folders which contain correspondence grouped based on topic, which are included at the end of the list below.
The Personal series includes documents from J. Claude Evans's youth, military and pastoral careers, and family life. These materials are Evans's passports, official navy orders and records, information on his education, a childhood diary, awards and certificates, court records, and articles about Evans, among other documents. The series contains photographs from J. Claude's youth and years at Duke as well as later, professional photos. A large scrapbook contains wartime letters and postcards from J. Claude to Maxilla while he was stationed abroad and an extensive scrapbook Evans created with articles and other notes regarding the abortion debate. The Personal series also includes a leather-bound bible that is inscribed by Evans in 1944 and has a note that it belonged to a T. Ligau c. 1896.
There are also a number of files pertaining to the Evans family's genealogy, including extensive research into both J. Claude and Maxilla Evans's family history. This includes a large photo album from the early twentieth century.
The Writings series includes three subseries: Published Articles and Columns -primarily J. Claude Evans's writings for The Mountaineer, Drafts, and Prayers. These materials include Evans's writings throughout his career for various pastoral and professional purposes.
The Published Articles and Columns subseries is filed alphabetically by the name of the newspaper or periodical in which Evans's writing was published. The Drafts subseries is filed alphabetically by title, with drafts for columns listed under "C" and then listed alphabetically by title within the folder.
The Printed Materials Series includes a range of materials saved and collected by J. Claude Evans. It contains assorted clippings, publications, and articles on theology, women's issues, and LGBT. The series also includes bound copies of the South Carolina Methodist Advocate dating from his time as editor (1952-1957), and bound bulletins from Southern Methodist University dating from his time as chaplain (1959-1979). Other materials include Evans' yearbooks and those from his sister, Eugenia (Gene), from the 1930s and early 1940s. This series also includes books, written by others, which mention Evans and his pastoral and counseling work.
The Pastoral Activities series includes materials from J. Claude Evans' professional work as a pastor and counselor to communities throughout the South. Some materials relate to his professional affiliations and memberships; others to his counseling work in Dallas and Waynesville; and others to specific churches where he ministered or preached.
Also includes a box of 30 cassette tapes of Evans speaking and preaching. These tapes are closed to researchers until use copies can be made.
Devotionals, seminar and conference presentations, and other tapes (include one with a debate on abortion). AV Identification numbers: RL0008-CS-0001 through 0026 and RL0008-MCS-0001 through 0004. Original audiovisual materials are CLOSED to researchers until use copies are made. Contact Research Services in advance.
Maxilla Evans' papers largely center on her bird watching, horticulture, and other nature conservation activities in Texas and North Carolina. There are also drafts of her writings, family correspondence, and research materials on Christianity, feminism, and Quakerism. She also collected genealogy and family history materials.
J. Claude Evans taught and attended many seminars, classes, and workshops in the course of his career as a pastor and counselor. This series includes syllabi, handwritten lecture notes, doodles, pamphlets, and reading materials from an assortment of these events, which have been loosely sorted into Courses Taken, Courses Taught, and General Notes. Many of the courses related to hypnotism, marriage counseling, and spiritual guidance. Courses have been arranged alphabetically by title and date from the 1960s through the 1990s. Many of the notes are on legal-size yellow notebook pages.
Includes day books, account books, memo books, and rental books.
Includes day books, account books, memo books, and rental books.
Includes day books, account books, memo books, and rental books.
The material in this collection includes subject files, course materials, research files, lectures, conference materials, professional correspondence, publication materials, project documentation, student course work, student activist work, and academic administrative documents. It was accumulated by Evans during her career as first a student, then a professor and historian of women's history. Materials range in date from 1959 through 2005.
Topics in the Subject Files and Course Materials series include feminism, minority women, religion, violence, civil rights, lesbianism, motherhood, employment, and socialist feminism. There are course outlines and syllabi from women's history courses Evans taught at the University of Minnesota dating from the 1970s through the 1990s. There are also materials docmenting student activist work by Evans while at Duke University. It includes petitions, newsletters, and other printed material supporting the activities of the American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees of the AFL-CIO at Duke University. The Publications series contains materials accumulated by Evans during the research for and the publication of her books. These materials include research notes, publicity, reviews, and illustrations. Most significantly, it includes interview transcripts, chapter notes, and a name index of feminist leaders for Evans' book Personal Politics. The Audiocassettes series contains interviews Evans recorded during her research for Personal Politics. It also contains research interviews Evans conducted in the early 1980s, as well as interviews with Evans. The Lectures series contains notes and transcripts from lectures Evans gave outside the University of Minnesota. The Correspondence, Projects, Feminist Theology, and Miscellany series contains professional correspondence, documentation of grant-funded projects, feminist theology conference materials, and Evans' early course work, including her dissertation and notes from a history class at Duke taught by Anne Firor Scott. Also notable are documentation of the University of Chicago's Vietnam War draft policies, and papers outlining Students for a Democratic Society policies from 1962-1963. Acquired as part of the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture.
Originals of the audio cassette tapes are closed to use.
The materials in this series consist mostly of subject and research files accumulated by Evans during her career as a professor and historian of women's history. Subjects include feminism, minority women, religion, violence, civil rights, lesbianism, motherhood, socialist feminism, and employment. Other items include course and curricular materials, printed materials and publications, conference information, and some correspondence. This series includes a slide show from a feminist organization.
Contains notes, interview transcripts, reviews, research, correspondence and other materials relating to Evans' publications, including Personal Politics, Born for Liberty, and Wage Justice.
Contains taped interviews Evans recorded during her research for Personal Politics in the 1970s. It also contains a group of interviews Evans conducted in the early 1980s for her books Free Spaces and Wage Justice. At the end are a group of miscellaneous interviews and discussions, including several interviews with Evans.
This series contains Evans' lectures given outside the University of Minnesota, retained in their original order, organized alphabetically by the place they were given.
This series contains professional correspondence, project files, materials relating to Christian feminism, Evans' student papers, student activist documentation, and miscellaneous files
The Wright H. Everett Papers span the years 1853-1998 and include correspondence, photographs and negatives, 8mm and 16mm films and audio tapes, print advertisements, layouts, presentations, research reports, pamphlets and brochures that document Everett's career selling advertising space in national magazines as well as his own businesses, Flix and the W.H. Everett Co. Magazines represented in the collection include Advertising Age, American Home, Flying, Progressive Grocer, Reader's Digest, Reminisce, Suburbia Today, Time, Western Advertising and Woman's Home Companion. Other companies represented include American Greeting Cards, Hunter Snead, Lennen-Newell, MacLean Hunter Media and Remington Advertising. There are also files relating to Everett's book How Were Things At The Office?
Diary (350 p.) and typed transcript describing a voyage to India and the social and religious life of a British Army officer's wife near Poona. Lady Feilding's description of the voyage aboard the troopship CROCODILE includes the bad conditions as well as entertainment on ship. Enroute to India they stopped at Malta, Port Said, Suez, and the Red Sea, and then went on to Bombay, Kirkee, and Poona.
This collection includes correspondence, diaries and journals, course material, published books, articles and book reviews, and all the supporting research for these publications. There is also printed material, as well as additional research material on index cards and microfilm. The files contain fellowship and grant applications, conference and seminar programs, notes and texts of lectures and speeches, as well as financial papers, a scrapbook, and pictures. The collection highlights the academic and consulting experiences (particularly the Kemmerer Commission) of Fetter, and documents his intellectual development as an historian of economic thought. Centering on his publications and research, and to a lesser extent his teaching, the largest series are the Publications and the Research series. His publications and research focused on the study of the history of economics, in particular inflation and international economic thought. As reflected in the Correspondence series, he corresponded with economists, academics, and writers. There is a relatively small amount of material concerning his personal life.
Fetter's research interests and publications were wide-ranging, and they are documented in both the Publications and Research series. His articles and pamphlets from 1921-1990 address such topics as Irish and Latin American currency, economists and their relationship to politics, as well as trade, tariff, and hard money issues. His articles focus mainly on the economic history of Great Britain in the 19th century, including the rise and fall of various economic trends and theories in the British financial system. One of the Kemmerer missions provided the basis for his first book, Monetary Inflation in Chile (1931), which foreshadowed his enduring interest in the causes of monetary instability. When later interests changed his focus to classical economics, and in particular British economic thought from Adam Smith to John Stuart Mill, he illuminated the classic controversies over money and banking, which at the time of the Napoleonic Wars shaped the economic theories and institutional structures that served Britain and the world before 1914.
The Research series complements the Publications series, as Fetter used these files for many different projects. Much of this material deals with English banking history, and includes files on Adam Smith, Thomas Malthus, the bullion controversy, and tariff issues.
In addition to research, Fetter's career involved a great deal of international consulting outside academia. He accepted commissions for projects throughout the world, and in the 1920s he participated in missions led by the Princeton economist E. W. Kemmerer (known as the "money doctor"), advising numerous Latin American governments and others on their monetary problems. The Commissions, Consulting, and Government Service series includes the material used to produce various economic reports for the foreign governments of Guatemala, Ecuador, Chile, Bolivia, Poland, and China. He worked collaboratively with the US government and the governments of India, Cuba, and Germany to secure economic stability for each of these countries.
Not only was Fetter a consultant, but he also taught economics at Princeton, Haverford College, Northwestern University, and, upon his retirement, Dartmouth College, where he adapted his Northwestern University course material for his classes. Both the Northwestern University series and the Teaching subseries in the Professional series highlight such courses as "Money and Banking," "History of Economic Thought," "International Investment," and "Latin American Culture and Civilization."
The Student Papers subseries in the Personal series and Teaching subseries in the Professional series detail Fetter's educational experiences, both as a student and teacher. The Teaching subseries chiefly covers his teaching experiences before his appointment to Northwestern University, with just a few files during and after the Northwestern years.
Letters to and from colleagues with whom Fetter was closely associated, as well as correspondence with friends and family members (including his father, the Princeton economist Frank Albert Fetter), can be found in the Correspondence series. Among his correspondents were J. Garner Anthony, Robert D. C. Black, J. Chester Bradley, R. C. Brooks, Colin Campbell, Lino Castillejo, S. G. Checkland, (Chick) Eagen, Luther Evans, Max Farrand, Milton Friedman, Craufurd Goodwin, Barry Gordon, Frank Graham, Keith Horsefield, Hollard (Ho) Hunter, Per Jacobsson, E. W. Kemmerer, John Maynard Keynes, Charles Kindleberger, Samuel Loescher, Vernon Mund, Leslie Pressnell, Lord Robbins, Richard Sayers, Franklin Scott, Joseph B. Shane, Frederick Jackson Turner, F. W. Taussig, Alan Valentine, Jacob Viner, C. R. Whittlesey and Harold Williamson. Other correspondents of note are E. M. Forster, Upton Sinclair, and Gore Vidal.
Varying aspects of Fetter's personal and professional life are reflected in both the Personal and Professional series. His associations with a number of professional organizations are represented in the files of the American Economic Association, Midwest Economic Association, History of Political Economy, and National Bureau of Economic Research. Personal information, including his marriage to Elizabeth Pollard in 1929, and his second marriage to Elizabeth Stabler in 1978, are part of the Biographical subseries.
Fetter was a consistent diarist, and the Calendars, Diaries, and Journals series records many events during his life. There are also travel journals of Elizabeth Pollard from her 1929 trip to China and 1937 trip to England.
The Visual Material series contains personal images and documentary photographs of Fetter's consulting work. The majority of the photographs are from Fetter's trip to Russia in 1930, taken mainly in Kazan and Moscow.
Letters to and from colleagues with whom Fetter was closely associated, as well as correspondence with friends and family members (including his father, the Princeton economist Frank Albert Fetter), can be found in this series. Among his correspondents were J. Garner Anthony, Robert D. C. Black, J. Chester Bradley, R. C. Brooks, Colin Campbell, Lino Castillejo, S. G. Checkland, (Chick) Eagen, Luther Evans, Max Farrand, Milton Friedman, Craufurd Goodwin, Barry Gordon, Frank Graham, Keith Horsefield, Hollard (Ho) Hunter, Per Jacobsson, E. W. Kemmerer, John Maynard Keynes, Charles Kindleberger, Samuel Loescher, Vernon Mund, Leslie Pressnell, Lord Robbins, Richard Sayers, Franklin Scott, Joseph B. Shane, Frederick Jackson Turner, F. W. Taussig, Alan Valentine, Jacob Viner, C. R. Whittlesey and Harold Williamson. Other correspondents of note are E. M. Forster, Upton Sinclair, and Gore Vidal. The Midwest Economics Association files consists of correspondence documenting Fetter's involvement with the Association and his term as president in 1952. The references and recommendations files include letters written by him and letters from others requesting recommendations and thanking him for writing.
Fetter was a consistent diarist, and this series records many events during his life. The earliest diaries document his 1917-1918 work with the New York Shipbuilding Yard and 1920 trip and work throughout the Western US. There are other miscellaneous travel journals, including those of Elizabeth Pollard from her 1929 trip to China and 1937 trip to England. There is also a run of calendars from 1967-1989 and address books containing the addresses of friends and colleagues throughout the US and abroad.
Fetter's career involved a great deal of international consulting outside academia. He accepted commissions for projects throughout the world, and in the 1920s he participated in missions led by the Princeton economist E. W. Kemmerer (known as the "money doctor"), advising numerous Latin American governments and others on their monetary problems. This includes the material used to produce various economic reports for the foreign governments of Guatemala, Ecuador, Chile, Bolivia, Poland, and China. Other files contain his personal diaries, detailing how he spent his time while commissioned abroad. Photographs taken during consulting visits are in the Visual Material series. He worked collaboratively with the US government and the governments of India, Cuba, and Germany to secure economic stability for each of these countries. In the early 1950s, he was a State Department advisor on the German Debt Settlement. He also testified before congressional and governmental committees in the US in the 1950s. In 1974, an oral history interview conducted by someone from the Harry S. Truman Library detailed his years of consulting and government service regarding international monetary issues.
Latvia.
Ecuador.
Ecuador.
India.
German debt settlement.
Correspondence.
Fetter taught economics at Princeton University, Haverford College, Northwestern University, and, upon his retirement, Dartmouth College, where he adapted his Northwestern course material. He occasionally taught or advised at institutions such as Swarthmore College, the School for Advanced International Studies, and the University of Wisconsin. Both the Northwestern University series and the Teaching subseries in the Professional series highlight such courses as "Money and Banking," "History of Economic Thought," "International Investment," and "Latin American Culture and Civilization." Also of interest are the files on the Ford Foundation Faculty Research Summer Seminar in 1957, where he taught "International Economic Problems and Economic Development" to faculty from various colleges and universities throughout the Midwest. He served on various Northwestern University committees, such as the Budget Committee (1954) and the Honor System Committee (1963-1964).
Assignments, exams, grade book, and readings.
Photograph and readings.
Notes and syllabus.
Notes for talk: European Common Market.
Notes.
Readings and syllabus.
Fetter's research interests and publications were wide-ranging, and they are documented in both the Publications and Research series. His articles and pamphlets from 1921-1990 address such topics as Irish and Latin American currency, economists and their relationship to politics, as well as trade, tariff, and hard money issues. His articles focus mainly on the economic history of Great Britain in the 19th century, including the rise and fall of various economic trends and theories in the British financial system. One of the Kemmerer missions provided the basis for his first book, Monetary Inflation in Chile (1931), which foreshadowed his enduring interest in the causes of monetary instability. When later interests changed his focus to classical economics, and in particular British economic thought from Adam Smith to John Stuart Mill, he illuminated the classic controversies over money and banking, which at the time of the Napoleonic Wars shaped the economic theories and institutional structures that served Britain and the world before 1914. Such ideas are illustrated in his Development of British Monetary Orthodoxy 1797-1875 (1965) and The Economist in Parliament: 1780-1868 (1980). These are just two of the books for which the Publications series holds drafts and final copies of manuscripts, revision notes, English and foreign language editions, background research, and correspondence. Manuscripts, research, and correspondence are also available for his unpublished books, one dealing with the role of foreign capital in assisting developing countries, and the other concerning the rise of England's Overend, Gurney bank and its subsequent financial collapse in 1866.
Royalties.
Manuscripts and notes.
Correspondence.
Manuscripts.
Manuscripts.
The Research series complements the Publications series, as Fetter used these research files for many different projects. The Alphabetical Files subseries, organized by topic, reflects his personal and professional interests and holds the body of reference material he collected throughout his career. Much of this material deals with English banking history, and includes files on Adam Smith, Thomas Malthus, the bullion controversy, and tariff issues. Examples of other interests are also in these files, including his debunking efforts concerning the inscriptions on the Christ of the Andes monument and on the Jefferson Memorial. Other materials of interest are the de Tocqueville files, and his efforts at cataloging the economic references in Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes stories. A second alphabetical subseries of index cards and microfilm contain research on many topics of interest to him. The Research on Published Articles and Pamphlets subseries complements the Published Articles and Pamphlets subseries in the Publications series and contains correspondence and background research for the articles and book reviews.
The Alphabetical Files are organized by topic and include magazine and newspaper clippings, bank records, court records, statistics, charts and tables, notes on readings, and bibliographies.
A second set of alphabetical research files consists of microfilm and index cards.
The final subseries contains correspondence and background research for Fetter's articles and pamphlets, and complements the Published Articles and Pamphlets subseries in the Publications series.
Manuscript and correspondence.
Material from Fetter's library, including a small amount of correspondence and a review of Erich Roll's History of Economic Thought.
Varying aspects of Fetter's personal and professional life are reflected in both the Personal and Professional series. The Alphabetical Files subseries in both series highlights his personal and professional interests. An enthusiastic sportsman, his canoe and cross-country ski trips are represented, as is his involvement in forestry and conservation through such groups as the Hanover Conservation Council and the Izaak Walton League of America. An active member of the Religious Society of Friends, his interest in peace is evident throughout his life. During the 1970s, he supported peace efforts during the Vietnam conflict, participating in letter writing efforts to the US Congress. Other complementing subseries are Travel, Conferences and Seminars, files and Lectures and Speeches. He traveled widely, sometimes to attend language school courses, and other times to attend conferences or deliver lectures throughout the world. Personal information, including his marriage to Elizabeth Pollard in 1929, and his second marriage to Elizabeth Stabler in 1978, are part of the Biographical subseries. Financial information is found in the Financial Papers subseries.
The Alphabetical files contain autographs, certificates, newsletters, newspaper clippings, printed programs, and political action correspondence.
The Biographical Material files include army discharge papers, guest books, a marriage certificate and wedding announcements, medical records, obituaries and resumes.
The Financial Papers contain expense books, income tax returns, real estate closing papers and stock certificates.
The Student Papers cover course notes, research material, papers, his dissertation, as well as transcripts and grade books.
Notes and reports.
Exam, notes, and reports.
Exam, notes, and reports.
Notes.
Exams, readings, notes.
Notes and reports.
Notes and reports.
Notes, biography, and report.
Notes.
Notes.
Notes and report.
Notes and miscellaneous.
Notes and report.
Notes.
Notes.
Notes.
Notes and clippings.
Report.
The last sub-series, Travel, includes correspondence, business cards, maps, travel brochures and travel guides, as well as passports and visas.
Business cards.
Business cards.
Maps.
Business cards.
Business cards.
Brochure.
Dictionary, brochures, and notes.
Business cards.
Brochure.
Business cards.
Varying aspects of Fetter's personal and professional life are reflected in both the Personal and Professional series. The Alphabetical Files subseries in both series highlights his personal and professional interests. He participated in the Institute of International Relations, sponsored by the American Friends Service Committee and held at Haverford College in 1934 and 1935; these files are located in the Teaching subseries. His associations with a number of professional organizations are represented in the files of the American Economic Association, Midwest Economic Association, History of Political Economy, and National Bureau of Economic Research. During the 1930s, he also wrote a number of editorials (primarily on gold issues) for the St. Louis Dispatch, which are also included here.
The Alphabetical Files include material regarding the organizations in which Fetter was actively involved, and contain annual reports, application forms, articles and pamphlets, catalogs, correspondence and memos, editorials, library maps, membership lists, newsletters and newspaper clippings, programs, public hearings and bills, research notes, reports, surveys and telegrams.
In the second subseries, various conferences and seminars that Fetter attended throughout his career are documented with national and international agendas and programs, attendance lists, correspondence, notes and presented papers.
The Fellowships and Grants subseries includes copies of his applications, correspondence, news releases, notes and published directories.
Correspondence, application information and miscellaneous.
Application.
Correspondence and miscellaneous.
Applications.
Correspondence and application information.
Applications, correspondence, and miscellaneous.
Fetter was a frequent speaker and the Lectures and Speeches subseries is comprised of a variety of material documenting these talks. There are articles of interest, lecture notes, outlines and texts of his talks, as well as newspaper clippings and newsletters, and press releases and programs.
The final subseries primarily covers Fetter's teaching experiences before his appointment to Northwestern University, with just a few files during and after the Northwestern years. Typical academic materials are contained here, including course assignments, bibliographies, exams, grade books, readings and syllabi, Fetter's lecture notes, including articles of interest, correspondence and memoranda, newspaper clippings, reports and speeches, as well as his students' papers are contained here. There are also college newspapers and commencement programs. Arranged by topic.
Syllabus.
Assignments, syllabi, exams, report topics, articles, and notes.
Syllabi.
Assignments, syllabi, grades, notes, and correspondence.
Assignments, syllabi, reports, miscellaneous, and correspondence.
Assignments, syllabi, exams, lectures, and notes.
Assignments, syllabi, and notes.
Assignments, syllabi, lectures, and notes.
Notes and bibliographies.
Assignments, syllabi, and notes.
Assignments and notes.
Assignments, lectures, syllabi, exams, and notes.
Lectures and notes.
Commencement program, notes, students, and syllabus.
Exams.
Comprehensive exams.
Exams.
Exams.
Exams.
Exams.
Exams.
Viner papers.
This series contains personal images and documentary photographs of Fetter's consulting work. There are images from the commissions in South and Central America, in Poland and China, from his consulting work in Cuba for the Commission of Cuban Affairs (1934), in Ecuador for the Export-Import Bank (1939; photo album), and in India for the Lend-Lease Administration (1943-1944). The majority of the photographs are from his trip to Russia in 1930, taken mainly in Kazan and Moscow (these photos have been digitized and are available in the Duke Digital Repository). Other travel photographs include those taken at the Economic History meeting in Switzerland in 1965, the Economic History meeting in Switzerland in 1965, several canoe trips, and a Colorado ski trip in 1976. There are also photographs taken at Northwestern University in 1956 and Dartmouth College in 1968.
Unidentified people.
Skiing trip.
Commission on Cuban Affairs.
Contact prints.
Of particular interest is the 1925-1927 Kemmerer Commission scrapbook and the 1929 four-volume report of the Kemmerer China Commission of Financial Experts. There is also research material, newspaper clippings, and various statistical sheets.
Research on British banking.
Research on Currency; Bank of England.
Research.
Reviews, reprints, and publishing.
Research.
Notes and research.
Research.
Research.
Research.
Research and letters.
Research.
Research and letters.
Research and clippings.
Research.
Research and notes.
David Finn papers include memos, art exhibit brochures, Ruder Finn print advertising and publications, and articles written by Finn and others. Companies represented include American Can, General Mills, Ruder & Finn, and Whirlpool. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
The papers of John William Firor span the years 1860-1985, but the bulk of the papers falls between 1900 and the 1950s. Included are correspondence, articles, a diary, postcards, printed material, clippings, notes, and pictures. This collection primarily consists of his personal and family correspondence, although there are papers relating to his work as a university professor, author, and farmer.
Firor began his career as a horticulturist prior to World War I and eventually broadened his interests to the field of southern agricultural economics, teaching at the University of Georgia. A major focus for his work was problems relating to Georgia agricultural crops, including especially pecans and peaches, but also watermelons, tomatoes, Irish potatoes, and apples. Particular interests in this field included fertilizer tests, diseases, expansion and economics of the farming industry, the impact of the boll weevil, distribution of farm price information, and general farm problems. In addition, he was known for developing the idea of carlot marketing of poultry and livestock.
The single diary in the papers covers chiefly the latter part of Firor's career as a professor in the College of Agriculture at the University of Georgia, 1949-1952, with only intermittent entries for 1941-1948. He wrote about veterans, his farm, and his economic, agricultural, and political philosophy. Entries also discuss various farming topics, such as cost and prices, crops, planting, cattle, sales, and the effects of temperature and rainfall on crops.
The Correspondence Series comprises over one-half of the collection. Pre-World War I correspondence consists primarily of incoming letters. Family correspondents include Firor's mother, Anna Catherine Wisotskey Firor, and his brothers Guy W., George, and David F. Some of the letters concern J. William Firor's job searches. In his World War I letters from France, he reflected on the U.S. Army, the Armistice, the French people, and AEF (American Expeditionary Forces) University (1919). He wrote to his fiancee Mary Valentine Moss, a student at Simmons College in Boston, and to Guy and his wife Helen. Firor and Mary corresponded from 1915 until their marriage in 1920. In France Firor met Viscountess Therese de Montford, and their correspondence extends into 1953. After the war, his letters express concern about the arrival of the boll weevil in Georgia. He referred to varieties of pecan trees, fruit trees, spraying, and some letters pertain to his job searches. Few letters exist for the 1930s.
Correspondence in the 1940s and 1950s includes a few World War II letters that Firor wrote from Lowry Field, Colorado and letters from Yvonne Ragon, a friend in France. Other war and post-war letters pertain to Firor's return to the University of Georgia and changes in the College of Agriculture and in courses in rural sociology. In letters between Mary and J. William Firor, and their daughter Anne Byrd Firor Scott, professor of history at Duke University, Dr. Scott wrote of her career and family life. In 1951 Firor wrote to former students in agricultural economics and associates in response to the volume of letters presented upon his retirement from the University of Georgia. Most of the post-1951 correspondence is between Firor and his daughter Anne Scott. Prominent individuals represented in the Correspondence Series include Reuben “Shorty” Brigham (late 1940s), Harmon Caldwell (late 1940s), Paul Wilber Chapman (1940s), William Mauzy Kemper (ca. 1908-1914), and Anne Firor Scott (1949-1961).
The Writings and Speeches Series includes clippings of Firor's articles from such publications as The Country Gentleman, The Georgia Democrat, The Progressive Farmer, Southern Ruralist, and The Southern Agriculturalist. Included is a rough draft of his Farm Plan for the Future, 1952. Firor wrote on a variety of southern agricultural topics, such as economics, prices, mortgages, the marketing of crops, sharecroppers, surpluses, farm ownership and management, father and son farming, planting, conservation, and farm people. The writings reflect a particular concern for problems relating to the cultivation of the pecan, sweet potato, peach, watermelon, and cotton crops. He also wrote about politics and veterans as farmers.
The Subject Files Series includes biographical and genealogical files on the Moss and Firor families as well as a folder for Anne Firor Scott. There are folders for Thurmont, Md., Firor's boyhood home, and for Country Gentleman, to which Firor frequently contributed articles. In the Printed Material Series is a booklet, In Memoriam: Rufus Lafayette Moss (1913). In addition, there are clippings about Paul W. Chapman in the Miscellaneous Series.
Addition (2012-0161) (450 items, 0.6 lin. ft.) contains family correspondence (1942-53), photographs, photocopies of letters from John William Firor and some transcriptions of these created by by Anne Firor Scott, material about Mary Valentine Moss, legal documents, genealogical material, and material produced by Anne Firor Scott while writing a biograpy of John William Firor. This addition may require further processing before use.
Diary of Firor, including handwritten and typed entries.
Chiefly of a personal and family nature, although there are some professional letters. Correspondence is to and from Firor, typed and handwritten, with a handful of postcards, ca. 1919. Arranged chronologically.
Primarily articles by Firor, arranged chronologically. Includes clippings, typescripts, radio address scripts, and some notes taken by Firor.
Small file, arranged chronologically.
Small file of calling cards, pamphlet, program, and French wedding invitations. Arranged chronologically.
Small file of clippings, pictures, address and membership lists, estate appraisal, and general material. Arranged chronologically.
Addition (2012-0161) (450 items, 0.6 lin. ft.) contains family correspondence (1942-53), photographs, photocopies of letters from John William Firor and some transcriptions of these created by by Anne Firor Scott, material about Mary Valentine Moss, legal documents, genealogical material, and material produced by Anne Firor Scott while writing a biograpy of John William Firor. This addition may require further processing before use.
The chief component consists of a large collection of lantern slides used by college professor Azel Hull Fish in lectures about the history of California, the Panama-Pacific Exposition, Plymouth Colony, the settling of the American West, social and economic development of the U.S., works of art, and other historical and philosophical subjects. The slides are arranged by subject group and number roughly 2000. Additional materials consist of photographs, some loose, but most mounted in photograph albums. Some of these were souvenir albums with views of California and other Western states by commercial photographers. Also included are some pamphlets, chiefly lecture texts, and a slide projector.
Lantern slides (positive transparencies) measure 3 1/4 x 4 3/4 inches and are housed in small slide boxes within larger boxes. Boxes 1-3 have four lantern slide boxes per larger box. Box 4 has six lantern slide boxes. Box 5 has one lantern slide box. There are some broken slides but on the whole they are in good condition. Most are in black-and-white but there are some hand-tinted and color transparencies.
Four albums house photographs chiefly of Western states and particularly California. Some could be considered souvenir albums or viewbooks, with images by commercial photographers. THere is also a group of 16 loose photographs, photographer unknown. Subjects include agricultural scenes, particularly orchards; railroads; immigrant populations; cities and towns in California; and various scenic landscapes.
The Margaret Fishback Papers span the years 1863 through 1978 and document Fishback's dual careers in advertising and writing as well as her personal life. The collection includes correspondence, layouts, drafts, galley proofs, radio scripts, working copy of advertising text, poetry, prose, published material, appointment books, scrapbooks, photographs, and other materials. Clients represented in the papers include Arrow, Borden's, Chef Boy-Ar-Dee, Clairol, General Foods, Gimbels, Gourmet Foods, Macy's, West Point Pepperell (Martex), Moore-McCormack Lines, Norcross, Norsk, Pabst, Simmons Beautyrest, and Wrigley. Materials that predate Fishback's birth consist of a small collection of 19th-century prints and illustrations.
The collection is organized into three series: Personal Files, Writings, and Advertising.
The Personal Files Series chiefly documents Fishback's personal life through personal correspondence, datebooks, diaries, and photographs. Also included are a number of items collected by Fishback such as etiquette books, newspaper clippings, church bulletins, and travel memorabilia. Biographical data, chiefly news articles, provide secondary source material about Fishback and her family.
The Writings Series documents Fishback's writing career, containing her published works as well as a large amount of work in unpublished form. Writings include articles and light poetry written for national news and general-interest publications such as Collier's, Liberty, Life, Look, the New York Times, New Yorker, Saturday Evening Post, and Time. Writings also include Fishback's contributions to women's magazines such as Cosmopolitan, Family Circle, Glamour, Good Housekeeping, Judge, Mademoiselle, McCall's, War Brides, Woman's Day, and Woman's Home Companion. A large number of Fishback's poems were reprinted as compilations; Fishback also compiled her own work in several scrapbooks. Materials represent Fishback's writings for children, including a promotional booklet for Martex and an English translation of a German poetry book. In addition to general prose and poetry, this series also includes materials collected and produced for a column entitled Woman-Talk, which Fishback wrote for Liberty from 1943 to 1947. Also included are short stories, greeting card work, letters to magazine and newspaper editors, speeches for various events such as author talks and advertising conventions, and other miscellaneous writings. General files document the administrative aspects of Fishback's writing career. These files contain correspondence, chiefly between Fishback and various editors and publishers, as well as financial and legal materials.
The Advertising Series documents Fishback's advertising work for R.H. Macy and Co. Department Store, as well as work for advertising agencies and freelance work. Included in this series are advertisements in various stages of production: notes, drafts, proofs, and tear sheets. Administrative materials, such as correspondence, often accompany the advertisements. Also represented in this series is evidence of Fishback's professional affiliations, particularly with the Advertising Women of New York (AWNY). Materials generated or collected in the process of preparing for speaking engagements with professional societies are also included. The series also includes a small collection of trade literature, chiefly books on advertising topics written by other authors.
Large-format print materials have been removed from their original series locations and relocated to Oversize Materials. Relocated items have been replaced in the Detailed Description of the Collection by dummy folders enclosed in brackets.
This series chiefly documents Fishback's personal life through personal correspondence, datebooks, diaries, and photographs. Also included are a number of items collected by Fishback such as etiquette books, newspaper clippings, church bulletins, and travel memorabilia. Biographical data, chiefly news articles, provide secondary source material about Fishback and her family. Materials that predate Fishback's birth consist of a small collection of 19th-century prints and illustrations.
The series is arranged into six subseries--Biographical Data; Correspondence; Datebooks, Calendars, Diaries, and Address Books; Etiquette Materials; Photographs; and Other Papers--and alphabetically therein.
Large-format materials have been removed to Oversize Materials. Where entire folders have been removed, their logical location in the container list has been indicated by dummy folders enclosed in brackets that indicate the physical location. Where single items have been removed, the relocation has been enumerated within parentheses.
Materials, chiefly news clippings, providing biographical information about Margaret Fishback, husband Alberto Antolini, son Tony Antolini, and other family members. The bulk of the Fishback clippings pertain to her marriage to Antolini in 1935.
Includes chiefly letters to and from friends and family members, who are often indicated by various nicknames. Son Tony is referred to as ZK,Tuck, and Tonino; husband Alberto asA.G.A. and Big Tony; brother Frederick Coleman (F.C.) Fishback asComie; a male, older Antolini as Pie; among others. Fishback is often referred to as Nip by husband Alberto, Peg by son Tony, and Marnie by some friends.
Other notable correspondents include author and playwright W. Somerset Maugham, with whom Fishback exchanged letters in 1961; illustrator Dick Sargent; author Frank Sullivan; actress Jane (Quigley) Alexander, who asked Margaret for writing advice as a child in 1949; elected officials, and various businesses.
Datebooks and calendars frequently offer daily records of Fishback's activities. They are available for almost every year in the date range, with multiple datebooks or calendars in certain years. Diaries tend to also record daily activities without personal reflection.
Chiefly etiquette books and booklets collected by Fishback.
A schedule of weekly presentations on various etiquette topics. Certain sessions have been highlighted in pencil by Fishback, including Don't Be a Dance-Floor Pirate,Is the Customer Always Right?,Advice to City Slickers, and Teen-Age Girls: How to Be Popular.
Chiefly candid photographs dated 1942-1944 of Margaret with young son Tony in various New York locations including Central Park and East River, as well as at their home in Thomaston, Maine.
Miscellaneous personal items collected by Fishback.
Titles include: So You're Expecting a Bundle From Heaven! (1944), 9 of the World's Most Exciting Suspense Stories (1945), Is My Face Red!: Embarrassing Situations (1945), Happy Birthday!: Pin-up Birthday Record, Cartoons, Horoscopes, Fun Galore (1945), and With All My Love: 7 Tender Love Stories to Quicken the Beat of Your Heart (1945).
Materials chiefly document Fishback's involvement with the Episcopal Church of the Incarnation from 1954 to 1973, including her advertising work for the church's annual Christmas Fair. Also included is a confirmation certificate for Elizabeth Fishback, dated 1940. Church programs with extensive handwritten notes relating to Fishback's writings have been physically removed to the Other Writings Subseries of the Writings Series.
From an envelope titled Miss Elizabeth Fishback, many of these items are labeled with names of individuals, possibly members of the Fishback family.
The materials in this series document Fishback's writing career, containing her published works as well as a large amount of work in unpublished form. Writings include articles and light poetry written for national news and general-interest publications such as Collier's, Liberty, Life, Look, the New York Times, New Yorker, Saturday Evening Post, and Time. Writings also include Fishback's contributions to women's magazines such as Cosmopolitan, Family Circle, Glamour, Good Housekeeping, Judge, Mademoiselle, McCall's, War Brides, Woman's Day, and Woman's Home Companion. A large number of Fishback's poems were reprinted as compilations; Fishback also compiled her own work in several scrapbooks. Materials also represent Fishback's writings for children, including a promotional booklet for Martex and an English translation of a German poetry book. In addition to general prose and poetry, this series also includes materials collected and produced for a column entitled Woman-Talk, which Fishback wrote for Liberty from 1943-1947. Also included are short stories, greeting card work, letters to magazine and newspaper editors, speeches for various events such as author talks and advertising conventions, and other miscellaneous writings.
The series is arranged into seven subseries--General Files; Greeting Cards; Poetry; Prose; Scrapbooks; Speeches; and Other Writings--and alphabetically therein.
General files document the administrative aspects of Fishback's writing career. These files contain correspondence, chiefly between Fishback and various editors and publishers, as well as financial and legal materials.
A set of Fishback's published books has been cataloged separately and is available in the Duke Rare Book, Manuscript, and Special Collections Library. Individual titles can be found in the online library catalog. Duplicate copies of these books have remained with the collection.
Large-format materials have been removed to Oversize Materials. Where entire folders have been removed, their logical location in the container list has been indicated by dummy folders enclosed in brackets that indicate the physical location. Where single items have been removed, the relocation has been enumerated within parentheses.
General files include materials documenting administrative aspects of Fishback's writing career.
Chiefly correspondence with magazine and newspaper publishers, these materials include a large amount of acceptance and rejection letters, materials related to copyright permissions, and some fan mail. Accompanying several letters is a wealth of Fishback's writing submissions, which have remained attached. Note that correspondence related to specific book projects has been filed under each book project in the Poetry Subseries.
Fishback worked with Kenneth Collins at Macy's, where Collins worked from 1926-1932, becoming the executive vice president of the store in 1929. By the 1950s, he was a columnist for Women's Wear Daily, where he wrote the weekly column Today and Yesterday in Retailing. Collins frequently featured Fishback's poetry in the column. Correspondence between Fishback and Collins also includes clippings of the column and other related materials. Other Collins columns and correspondence can be found in the Scrapbooks Subseries, in the scrapbook titled M.F.A. scrapbook being worked on.
Gurney Williams worked at Collier's before becoming the Humor Editor at Look magazine. Fishback was a frequent contributer to both magazines, particularly Look's Look on the Light Side feature. The correspondence chiefly pertains to Fishback's writing, but is occasionally more personal.
Includes royalty and remittance statements, manuscript invoices, check stubs, and purchase agreements. Ledgers contain handwritten lists of compensation received for published writings.
Includes poetry and prose for freelance greeting card projects.
Materials in this subseries include published and unpublished poems. Materials related to poetry compilations include book preparation materials, with clippings, correspondence, drafts, indices, notes, photographs, publicity materials, reviews, and tables of contents related to Fishback's published poetry compilations.
This subseries also includes poems, published and unpublished, that appeared individually in magazines and newspapers. Many published versions of these poems were compiled as scrapbooks, and can be found in the Scrapbooks Subseries. Also included is a list, compiled by Fishback, of her published poems from 1926-1930.
Includes book preparation materials, with clippings, notes, drafts, indices, tables of contents, correspondence, photographs, publicity materials, and reviews related to Fishback's published poetry compilations. A complete set of Fishback's published poetry compilations has been cataloged separately and is available in the Duke Rare Book, Manuscript, and Special Collections Library. Individual compilations can be found in the online library catalog. Duplicate copies of these books have remained with the collection.
Includes poems, published and unpublished, that appeared individually in magazines and newspapers. Also includes a list, compiled by Fishback, of her published poems from 1926-1930.
Several published versions of these poems were compiled by Fishback into scrapbooks and can be found in the Scrapbooks Subseries.
Folders titled Assorted drafts contain drafts of Fishback's individual poems, titled and untitled, arranged chronologically. Otherwise, original folder titles have been retained and are arranged alphabetically by folder title.
Includes poems, notes, clippings, pamphlets, and correspondence with Gurney Williams.
Includes poems written for anniversaries, birthdays, holiday greetings, and other events; some poems were written for people to give to other people.
Folders titled Assorted contain clippings of Fishback's individual published poems, arranged chronologically. Other folders contain the publications in which the poems originally appeared, arranged alphabetically by title.
The materials in this subseries document Fishback's prose work, including published and unpublished articles, book projects, a column called Woman-Talk, and some works of short fiction. Preparatory materials such as drafts, clippings, and handwritten notes provide contextual information for some of the published items. Book projects additionally feature publicity materials and reviews.
Several published versions of works in this subseries were compiled by Fishback into scrapbooks and can be found in the Scrapbooks Subseries.
Materials include published articles, drafts, and preparatory materials such as news clippings and handwritten notes.
Includes draft, notes, and clippings.
Includes draft, notes on the draft, and the published article.
This article about Lesley Frost, children's author and daughter of Robert Frost, was commissioned by Yankee magazine in 1963. Materials include a draft of the article, as well as correspondence regarding its inception, notes, clippings, and several Robert Frost obituaries.
Materials include drafts of individual articles, titled and untitled, arranged chronologically.
Materials include published prose works and an unpublished book project, with accompanying preparatory materials such as drafts, manuscripts, notes, and clippings, as well as publicity materials and reviews.
This book collaboration was designed as a follow-up to a book written by Hunter's late wife, Pat Bowman, entitled The Scot and Finella. The materials include correspondence, a composition book, handwritten notes, clippings, financial materials, and a photograph of Bowman.
The Woman-Talk column appeared in Liberty magazine from 1943-1947. Materials here include clippings of the published column as well as preparatory materials, including drafts, clippings, and handwritten notes.
This subseries includes scrapbooks assembled by Fishback, some in preparation for poetry compilations. The scrapbooks contain chiefly clippings of published poetry, but also include unpublished drafts, correspondence, and other clippings. A scrapbook of Macy's advertisements is located in the Advertising Series.
Includes clippings of Fishback's published works, chiefly poetry, as well as unpublished drafts with Fishback's notes regarding their sale. Also in this scrapbook is a set of notecards including titles of poems and their publication information. The eliminated materials referenced in the scrapbook's title refer to Time for a Quick One (1940).
Includes chiefly clippings of Fishback's published poetry, as well as correspondence with Kenneth Collins and clippings of his Women's Wear Daily column, Today and Yesterday in Retailing, in which Fishback's poetry was frequently mentioned. Also included in this scrapbook are published advertising copy, correspondence with publishers, a biographical article, and poetry by Fishback's son Tony. This scrapbook was apparently compiled in the preparation of Poems Made Up to Take Out (1963).
The speeches in this subseries were prepared for a variety of events, including an advertising convention, a convention of the American Gas Association, a book and author luncheon, a school meeting, and other events.
This subseries contains a variety of miscellaneous Fishback writings, including writings in genres atypical of Fishback such as song lyrics and limericks. Also included are poems by Fishback's son Tony, on which Fishback occasionally collaborated.
Materials pertaining to the production of a series of elementary school textbooks containing folk songs from around the world. Materials include correspondence, musical scores, lyrics, drafts, notes, and financial and legal records.
The Advertising Series documents Fishback's advertising work for R.H. Macy and Co., as well as work for advertising agencies and freelance work. Included in this series are advertisements in various stages of production: notes, drafts, proofs, and tear sheets. Administrative materials, such as correspondence, often accompany the advertisements. Also represented in this series is evidence of Fishback's professional affiliations, particularly with the Advertising Women of New York (AWNY). Materials generated or collected in the process of preparing for speaking engagements with professional societies are also included. The series also includes a small collection of trade literature, chiefly books on advertising topics written by other authors.
The series is arranged into four subseries--Macy's, Client Files, Conferences and Professional Societies, and Other Advertising Files--and alphabetically therein.
Large-format materials have been removed to Oversize Materials. Where entire folders have been removed, their logical location in the container list has been indicated by dummy folders enclosed in brackets that indicate the physical location. Where single items have been removed, the relocation has been enumerated within parentheses.
Materials in this subseries document Fishback's advertising work for R.H. Macy and Co. (Macy's), where she was employed as a copywriter from 1927-1942. Materials represent her work as a divisional copywriter as well as her institutional work. Institutional advertisements often contain the Macy's slogans It's smart to be thrifty and No one is in debt to Macy's. Advertisements and advertisement copy are included, as well as administrative files such as correspondence, company publications, and awards.
Two plaques, Annual Advertising Awards (1937) and Publishers Service Company Annual Award (1939)
Obituary and photograph, Irving C. Eldridge, Display Director of Macy's New York.
Company publications, including brochures and copies of internal newsletters The Macy Star and Macy News.
Includes advertising proofs, advertising copy, tear sheets, correspondence, photographs, clippings, competitive advertisements, and other materials related to work Fishback completed for specific clients. Advertising work in this subseries was completed both freelance and while Fishback worked for advertising agencies.
Advertising work comprising a single item or few items per client. Clients include Bristol-Myers, Goodyear, Kaiser Foil, Lipton, Listerine, St. Mary's blankets, Statler Hotels, Topton Rug Manufacturing Company, and Your Personal Chef.
This subseries contains materials relating to Fishback's affiliations with various professional societies, as well as materials generated or collected for speaking engagements on advertising topics at other conferences.
Includes materials from the 1965 convention of the American Gas Association in Miami Beach, Florida. Fishback was invited to the conference to deliver a speech, Whose Side Am I On? (the speech and speech preparation materials are located in the Speeches Subseries of the Writings Series). The American Gas Association contacted her to deliver this speech after hearing the speech at the 3rd Annual Consumer Conference, which was hosted by the Advertising Women of New York (AWNY) earlier that year.
This folder contains a Fishback article that was reprinted in a convention program of the Advertising Club (1931); a letter regarding New York City's Tribute Dinner to Career Women, at which Fishback was the Guest of Honor; a 1954 issue of Independent Woman, the magazine of the National Federation of Business and Professional Women's Clubs, Inc.; a letter from Associated Writers and Producers; and correspondence with the Zonta Club of New York.
This subseries contains materials related to the advertising agencies for which Fishback worked, general advertising correspondence, assorted advertising writings by other authors, and other materials pertaining to Fishback's advertising career.
Includes correspondence, some internal publications, and other administrative files relating to Fishback's work for advertising agencies. Materials related to specific advertising campaigns are located in the Client Files Subseries.
Includes correspondence pertaining to Fishback's advertising career, but unassociated with any particular agencies or clients. Correspondence related to specific advertising agencies is located in the Advertising Agencies Subseries; correspondence related to specific advertising campaigns or clients is located in the Client Files Subseries.
Contains books by other authors on the subject of advertising. One book, Don Herold's Humor in Advertising, contains a contribution by Fishback. Some titles are signed by the authors.
Fishback contributed to this compilation of humorous advertisements and writings about humor in advertising. The book is inscribed to Fishback from author Don Herold. A second folder contains book preparation materials. These materials comprise correspondence between Fishback and Herold, as well as Photostat copies of Macy's advertisements.
Other advertising-related materials collected by Fishback.
Includes correspondence between Fishback and the Coca-Cola Company regarding an advertisement idea Fishback submitted to the company. A Photostat of the proposed advertisement is also included.
Due to limitations of physical storage, box numbers of oversize materials do not necessarily run in sequence.
Collection comprises a letter (1922 October 27) Morris Fishbein wrote to Dr. H. Sinclair Taite regarding the purchase and shipment of volumes of the Bulletin of the Society of Medical History of Chicago. Acquired as part of the History of Medicine Collections.
The papers of the lawyer and educator William Righter Fisher and the journalist Mary Wager Fisher consist primarily of correspondence, but also include photographs (several of them tintypes and cartes-de-visite), financial papers, diaries, clippings, printed material, and writings and speeches. Among correspondents are many journalists, physicians, educators, and other notable figures of the late nineteenth century including Lucy Abbott, Mercy Baker, Jennie Chapin, Mary L. Booth, W.S. Burke, James Gowdy Clark, M.E. Dodge, Weston Flint, P. Girard, S. D. Harris, Albert Leffingwell, Henry C. Olney, W. Trickett, George Boyer Vashon, and Frank J. Webb. The collection also includes letters from James B. Hazelton of the First Regiment, New York Artillery. Hazelton's letters describe battles and political events of the Civil War, including Lincoln's re-election campaign and the anti-draft riots. The papers are particularly rich in documentation of women in medicine and women's medical education in the second half of the nineteenth century; the Freedmen's schools in the Reconstruction South; the movement for women's rights; and friendship among American women in the late Victorian era.
The Correspondence Series includes letters from three prominent women physicians of the period (Jennie Chapin, Mercy N. Baker, and Lucy M. Abbott) to Mary Wager before her marriage to Fisher. In their letters they described their medical education, their obstetrical experience, and the high cost of tuition and living expenses at the Women's Medical College of Philadelphia. Letters prior to her marriage in 1876 also attest to Wager's numerous romantic involvements. Among her admirers was lawyer and educator Weston Flint, and the Correspondence Series includes over 100 letters from him describing his political, social, and literary interests as well as his deep affection for Mary Wager. He also wrote about his wartime travels and his interest in helping the contrabands medically and educationally. Flint detailed political events of the Civil War, including Lincoln's re-election campaign and the anti-draft riots, and mentions the Copperheads. He expressed particular interest in the moral state of soldiers, decrying their drinking of alcohol and consorting with prostitutes. Flint sometimes included poetry in his letters.
Also in the Correspondence Series are two letters (1870) from Frank J. Webb, the author of The Garies and Their Friends (1857), a daring novel about an interracial couple. In one of these letters dated May 5, he referred to a 500-page manuscript sent to Harper's for an unpublished novel, Paul Sumner, which he considered to be superior to The Garies. In a four-page letter to Wager (April 9, 1870), African American writer, attorney, and educator George Boyer Vashon provided an autobiography. The events of his life were penned on the letterhead of The New Era: A National Journal, Edited by Colored Men.
The collection offers insight into emotionally intense friendships between women of the nineteenth century. Wager's female friends sent good wishes, but expressed great jealousy at the time of her marriage to Fisher. Young women wrote of both romantic and sisterly love for Mary, and sometimes discussed such issues as women's education, women's dress, women's suffrage, and temperance.
The bulk of William Righter Fisher's letters in the collection were written between him and his parents. A small cache of letters from author and dean of Dickenson College Law School William Trickett, who lived in Germany in 1872, provide a vivid illustration of the political climate and structure of the Germany of Bismarck. Also to be found among letters to Fisher are several written in the late 1860's by agents of the Freedmen's Bureau and the Freedmen's school in Wytheville, Virginia.
While the bulk of the collection consists of correspondence, some speeches and writings by Mary Wager Fisher and Weston Flint are included. Of particular interest is a photocopy of Mary Wager's article entitled Women as Physicians. Also, the Pictures Series includes both cartes-de-visite and tintypes.
The William Righter and Mary Wager Fisher Papers provide numerous windows through which researchers can view aspects of late Victorian America. The collection provides an unusual entree into the private and public lives of nineteenth-century men and women, and particularly provides information about the professionalization of American women, relationships between women in nineteenth-century America, and race relations in the Reconstruction South.
Letters to and from Mary Wager and William Righter Fisher and friends, family members, and associates. Correspondents include many educators, artists, and illustrious Americans of the period.
Small personal account books, pages of William Fisher's accounts with merchants in Pennsylvania, and receipts.
14 photographs, mostly portraits of unidentified young men and women taken by Philadelphia photographers. None of the photographs are dated. Series includes cartes-de-visite and tintypes.
Small personal diary belonging to William A. Fisher. Entries are brief accounts of daily activities.
Clippings concerning friends and family members of the Fishers, as well as items of general interest to them. Includes poetry by Mary Wager Fisher, her obituary, and a few short articles about her.
Transcript of Supreme Court case, Elizabeth C. Acuff vs. John Righter and the Fishers' wedding invitation.
Manuscript of Tempus Fugit, a poem by Weston Flint; photocopy of article by Mary Wager Fisher entitled Women as Physicians (copied from The Galaxy, 1863 Dec.); anonymous manuscript poem entitled, Watkins' Glen; fragments of articles and speeches; and a page from a manuscript speech by Mary Wager Fisher imploring the women of Allegeny County to donate provisions for soldiers and their families.
Lease for the rental of a house belonging to William A. Fisher, form letter signed by Weston Flint requesting that a commanding officer send the descriptive role to U.S. General Hospital, an address book, list of members of the Peoples' Institute, drawings, calling cards, and assorted covers.
Collection comprises 5 letters (three originals and two copies) Photius Fisk wrote to "Friend Hacker," probably Maine reformer, abolitionist, and journalist Jeremy Hacker, between 1886 and 1889. Topics include health matters, money enclosed, and end-of-life planning. Also includes a copy of Fisk's obituary.
This collection contains Foa's published and unpublished writings; files and correspondence from positions he held including his term as a fellow at Princeton University (1940-1942), as Director of the Bureau of Latin American Research (1941-1943), on the Federal Reserve Board, as a consultant for other economics projects, and as professor and guest lecturer at several Universities; a memoir by Foa; his biography of the Foa family; and personal correspondence among his family members, travel documents, and memos about the destination during trips to Italy, Jerusalem, Spain, South America and Somalia.
Professional correspondence contains letters from persons and economists in Europe and America, notably Irving Fischer, Gustav Cassel, Wesley Mitchell, Achille Loria, Luigi Einaudi, Dennis Robertson, Lionel Robbins, Friedrich von Hayek, Piero Sraffa and others. Contents mostly concern writings and introductions when Foa moved from Italy to London and later to America. Personal correspondence is mostly with his wife and family.
Files concerning Foa's professional career as an economist. They date from his time as a fellow at Princeton University (1940-1942), Director of the Bureau of Latin American Research (1941-1943), member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Board (1944-1945), as a guest lecturer at Yale and other universities, and as a consultant for the UN, the Italian Embassy in Washington, the Board of Economic Warfare and others.
During his professional career, Foa traveled to Jerusalem, Mexico, Argentina, Brazil, Somalia and throughout Europe. Files contain mostly personal correspondence and travel documents, but where otherwise noted, also contain reports and observations of his destinations.
Drafts, notes, and outlines of published and unpublished works written by Foa. In some instances, the files contain reviews and responses to his work from other economists.
Published works by Foa and others in both English and Italian. Includes journal issues as well as individual articles.
Photographs of Bruno and Lisa Foa and friends.
The Judith A. Fortney papers document the professional activities of this pioneering women's health researcher. The materials in this collection include her writings and publications, project documentation, professional correspondence, subject files, photographs, and realia.
One large portfolio featuring the corporation's campaign proposal, with 5 advertisements, to sell Bohemian beer in the California market. The proposal was presented to Carl Walters, of Southern Brewing Company in Los Angeles. There is no date on the proposal and no indication whether it was successful.
The Frederick Fraser Papers include correspondence concerning the sale of cotton, some personal correspondence, assorted financial transactions concerning cotton, some miscellaneous personal papers, and a scrapbook (152 p.). Includes an 1872 letter from Iredell Jones concerning his trial as a member of the Klu Klux Klan. The scrapbook contains a variety of materials related to both the social lives of the De Saussure, Fraser, and several other South Carolina families, as well as their activities during the Civil War, including: correspondence, newspaper clippings, poems, copies of tombstone engravings, invitations, photographs, and postcards. Scrapbook also includes letters from Henry De Saussure Fraser, a surgeon in Virginia. His letters describe military activities and life as a Union prisoner from 1863-1864 in Fort McHenry and Old Capitol Prison, as well as the Charleston earthquake in 1886. The scrapbook also includes a small volume of the De Saussure family genealogy. Persons mentioned in the collection include Thomas Boone Fraser, Sr., Daniel De Saussure, and Henry William De Saussure.
Business correspondence concerning the sale of cotton, including commercial problems during the War of 1812, and particularly in Charleston, South Carolina. Includes an 1872 letter from Iredell Jones concerning his trial as a member of the Klu Klux Klan. Also includes some personal correspondence, primarily with the individuals John Dawson, Ladson, H. Cunningham, and B. W. Martin, and an anonymous individual identitified only as I.H.L.
Assorted financial transactions on the sale of cotton
Assorted financial transactions on the sale of cotton
Shopping lists, property deeds and agreeements
Scrapbook containing correspondence, newspaper clippings, biographical profiles, poems, photographs, copies of tombstone engravings, and postcards.
Collection comprises twenty-five black-and-white gelatin silver 16x20 inch exhibit prints, representing a larger body of work by Danny Wilcox Frazier on contemporary Iowa rural culture. The images portray a changing Midwest of vanishing towns and transformed landscapes. Scenes include cemeteries, slaughterhouses, farms, abandoned grain elevators, and fields. Individuals inhapbiting the scenes include young people at leisure, fishermen on the Mississippi, hunters in fields, veterans on Memorial Day, Amish families, as well as more recent arrivals to Iowa, Lubavitcher Hasidic Jews at prayer and migrant workers in the fields and at home. The prints are arranged in exhibit number order, and are housed in hinged window mats.
The prints were featured in an exhibit entitled Driftless: Photographs from Iowa at Duke University in 2007. The term "Driftless" refers to a geological area of the Midwest untouched by glaciers. A recording of the artist's talk is available through the online exhibit.
Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
Collection consists of materials used in production of the newspaper, specifically a large clippings file, flyers, newsletters, press releases, book PR, incoming correspondence, a Kill box file, some clippings organized by subject, papers centered on Lee Mullis and Jim Duley, a reader survey, faxes, some submissions, and a large number of other gay and lesbian publications.
Addition (2000-0304) (1 item, dated 1977) is a t-shirt designed by Tom Carr for the 1977 Southeastern Gay Conference in Chapel Hill, N.C.
Addition (2003-0036) (26,300 items; 43.5 lin. ft; dated 1975-2001 and undated) consists of periodicals, directories, clippings, press releases, advertising proofs, brochures, and other materials related to production of The Front Page and/or to gay/lesbian organizations, issues, and events throughout the U.S. Also includes subject and correspondence files; numerous issues of North Carolina Anvil from the late 1970s-early 1980s; a collection of drag photographs; direct mail materials; and several The Front Page, gay/lesbian, and event-themed t-shirts.
Addition (2008-0065) (2,500 items; 6 lin. ft.; 1970s-2006) includes reader surveys (mostly dated 1992); correspondence between readers and The Front Page; printed materials; gay pride and AIDS awareness posters; and miscellaneous materials and items.
Addition (2008-0245) (1,800 items; 2.4 lin. ft.; dated 1970s-1990s) contains research files; letters to the editor, 1980-1987; internal records; mailing lists; and printed materials. Several research files relate to early research and publicity of AIDS and the gay community in the 1980s.
Addition (2008-0287) (1,350 items; 1.8 lin. ft.; dated 1980-2004) includes organizational files, publications, and clippings from gay/lesbian associations and events.
Addition (2009-0162) (4 items; 0.1 lin. ft.; 1977-2002) includes a Cruise magazine (1977); The Loop newspaper (Charleston, 2002) and materials from the Guilford Green Foundation (2002).
Addition (2018-0020) (15.0 lin. ft) consists of materials related to the production of The Front Page, internal newspaper documentation, as well as materials documenting LGBT issues throught the United States.
Addition (2018-0063) (0.5 lin. ft.) includes correspondence, photographs, and articles on gay rights in North Carolina.
Addition (2023-0086) (3.5 lin. ft.; dated 1980-2004) contains photographs sent to and taken for The Front Page. The bulk of the photographs date from the 1990s and document Pride events, as well as other events such as conferences, protests, and marches. These photographs show a wide range of people, including: lesbian/gay parents and regional PFLAG (Parents, Families, and Friends of Lesbians and Gays) groups; bisexual and transgender people; drag performers; military personnel and veterans; gay men who self-identify as bears, leatherheads, and cowboys; lesbian women who self-identify as dykes; and supportive religious, racial, ethnic, interracial, and intersectional groups and organizations. Some of the individuals and organizations are identified, while others are not. A small portion of the photographs document homophobic activities and hate crimes, such as graffiti, anti-LGBTQ protest signs at Pride, and arson. Some of these photos contain harmful language.
Primarily flyers, newsletters, press releases, and some submissions
Primarily flyers, newsletters, press releases, and book PR
Primarily flyers, newsletters, and press releases
Primarily newsletters, PR, and some incoming correspondence
Primarily newsletters, PR, and some incoming correspondence
Includes SE Conference (ca. 1975) and Carolina Gay Association
Primarily press releases, newsletters, handouts, and correspondence
Primarily press releases, newsletters, handouts, correspondence, and faxes
Primarily press releases, newsletters, and faxes
Primarily press releases, newsletters, and faxes
Primarily press releases, newsletters, correspondence, and faxes
Any piece with Duley or Duley Papers belongs to this series
Primarily book publicity, newsletters and some correspondence
Completed to ascertain habits and political thinking of readers. Results were never used.
T-shirt designed by Tom Carr.
Includes periodicals, press releases for film, television, music, and publishing, and brochures.
Includes issues of The Raleigh News & Observer, The Charlotte Observer, The Washington Post, and others.
Includes press releases for film, television, music, and publishing; flyers and other publications related to Gay/Lesbian events; advertising proofs; rolodex cards; copies of Gay/Lesbian business directories (including The Front Page directory) and maps for various cities, and other publications and periodicals.
Addition (2008-0065) (2,500 items; 6 lin. ft.; 1970s-2006) includes reader surveys (mostly dated 1992); correspondence between readers and The Front Page; printed materials; gay pride and AIDS awareness posters; and miscellaneous materials and items.
Addition (2008-0245) (1,800 items; 2.4 lin. ft.; dated 1970s-1990s) contains research files; letters to the editor, 1980-1987; internal records; mailing lists; and printed materials. Original folder titles have, for the most part, been retained.
Includes copies of newsletters written by incarcerated people (not specifically LGBT) published in Asheville, NC.
Addition (2008-0287) (1,350 items; 1.8 lin. ft.; 1980-2004) includes organizational files, publications, and clippings from gay/lesbian associations and events.
Addition (2009-0162) (4 items; 0.1 lin. ft.; 1977-2002) includes a Cruise magazine (1977); The Loop newspaper (Charleston, 2002) and materials from the Guilford Green Foundation (2002).
Addition (2018-0020) (15.0 lin. ft) consists of materials related to the production of The Front Page, internal newspaper documentation, as well as materials documenting LGBT issues throught the United States.
Addition (2018-0063) (0.5 lin. ft.) includes correspondence, photographs, and articles on gay rights in North Carolina.
Accession consists of photographs sent to and taken for The Front Page. The bulk of the photographs date from the 1990s and document Pride events, as well as other events such as conferences, protests, and marches. These photographs show a wide range of people, including: lesbian/gay parents and regional PFLAG (Parents, Families, and Friends of Lesbians and Gays) groups; bisexual and transgender people; drag performers; military personnel and veterans; gay men who self-identify as bears, leatherheads, and cowboys; lesbian women who self-identify as dykes; and supportive religious, racial, ethnic, interracial, and intersectional groups and organizations. Some of the individuals and organizations are identified, while others are not. A small portion of the photographs document homophobic activities and hate crimes, such as graffiti, anti-LGBTQ protest signs at Pride, and arson. Some of these photos contain harmful language.
Photographs taken of Pride events, primarily NC Pride, including participants, supporters, vendors, and performances. Photographs show a wide range of people, including: lesbian/gay parents and regional PFLAG (Parents, Families, and Friends of Lesbians and Gays) groups; bisexual and transgender people; drag performers; military personnel and veterans; gay men who self-identify as bears, leatherheads, and cowboys; lesbian women who self-identify as dykes; and supportive religious, racial, ethnic, interracial, and intersectional groups and organizations. Also included are pictures of protestors who attended the events, as well as homophobic signs containing harmful language. Pride events held in North Carolina appear first, followed by those in other states, followed by assorted Pride-related events.
Photographs by William J. Wolfe, Jr.
Photographs by William J. Wolfe, Jr.
Photographs by William J. Wolfe, Jr.
Photographs by William J. Wolfe, Jr.
Photographs by William J. Wolfe, Jr.
Photographs by Chris Allbright.
Separated by donor/creator.
Photographs of events including conventions and conferences, marches, protests and campaigns, AIDS advocacy, and other events. There are also photographs taken of homophobic actions and hate crimes, including graffiti, anti-LGBTQ signs, and arson. Photographs of graffiti and anti-LGBTQ signs contain harmful language.
Photographs by Mary Woodward.
Photographs from a mock same-sex wedding ceremony as part of a National Day of Action to support same-sex marriage. Includes press release.
Held in Durham, NC.
Two groups of photos taken from the same camera roll. The first group is of a dance event, and the second group shows homophobic graffiti (some covered up by LGBTQ-friendly painting) on walls by Duke's campus.
Kiss-in held outside Senator Jesse Helms' office to protest Helms' views and legislative actions.
Gay and lesbian wedding ceremony held in protest outside the North Carolina state legislative building.
Pictures after a fire at Danny Leonard's home in Jacksonville, NC. Leonard, a drag queen also known as Brandy Alexander, owned Friends Lounge, a gay bar in Jacksonville.
Pictures during and after a fire was intentionally set at White Rabbit Books & Things in Charlotte, NC. White Rabbit was a gay and lesbian bookstore.
Separated by donor/creator. Includes some negatives of shoes and unidentified homes.
Includes pictures of Nelson with and serving on the Carrboro Town Council.
Many pictures are from NC Pride 1994 in Charlotte.
Includes an issue of Victory! Gay & Lesbian business magazine profiling Bob Page as entrepreneur of the year.
Negatives.
Collection comprises 18 color photographs taken from 1939 to 1942 by Farm Security Administration (FSA) photographers Jack Delano (8 prints), Russell Lee (7) and Marion Post Wolcott (3). The prints are sized 10 x 13 and 11 x 14 inches, with image sizes ranging from 6 1/2 x 9 3/4 to 10 x 13 inches. They were printed by photograph collector and gallery owner Tennyson Schad in the 1980s from original transparencies in the Library of Congress, using the dye transfer process.
Subjects include industrial settings such as a Pennsylvania steel mill and a sawmills in Georgia and Maine; rural settings such as a wheat field in Washington State and grain elevators in Idaho; and photographs of people, including a group of African Americans fishing near a cotton plantation in Mississippi, and a gathering of white men in a rural Kentucky town. One sequence documents people mingling, saying grace, and serving food at a rural fair in New Mexico. There are several photographs of tobacco cultivation and a federal housing project taken in Puerto Rico, where photographer Jack Delano settled shortly after his FSA assignment.
Together, these rare color images reveal the diverse subject and stylistic choices made by these notable photographers commissioned for the FSA project.
Printed by Tennyson Schad, circa 1986.
Credit and copyright stamps on the verso, with inscriptions in pencil by an unknown hand. Printed and signed by Tennyson Schad, 1986.
Credit and copyright stamps on the verso, with inscriptions in pencil by an unknown hand. Printed and signed by Tennyson Schad, 1985. Title derived from...
Title on back of print: "Shenandoah Valley, VA." Alternate title on label affixed to sleeve: "Man painting from Skyline Drive, Shenandoah Valley, VA."
Credit and copyright stamps on the verso, with inscriptions in pencil by an unknown hand. Printed and signed by Tennyson Schad, 1983.
Credit and copyright stamps on the verso, with inscriptions in pencil by an unknown hand. Printed and signed by Tennyson Schad, 1983.
Credit and copyright stamps on the verso, with inscriptions in pencil by an unknown hand. Printed and signed by Tennyson Schad, March 1986.
Credit and copyright stamps on the verso, with inscriptions in pencil by an unknown hand. Printed and signed by Tennyson Schad, 1985.
Credit and copyright stamps on the verso, with inscriptions in pencil by an unknown hand. Printed and signed by Tennyson Schad, 1983. Title and date derived from... Alternate title on print verso, "Federal housing project, Yuaco, Puerto Rico."
Credit and copyright stamps on the verso, with inscriptions in pencil by an unknown hand. Printed and signed by Tennyson Schad, 1984 or 1985.
Credit and copyright stamps on the verso, with inscriptions in pencil by an unknown hand. Printed and signed by Tennyson Schad, 1985.
Credit and copyright stamps on the verso, with inscriptions in pencil by an unknown hand. Printed and signed by Tennyson Schad, 1986.
Credit and copyright stamps on the verso, with inscriptions in pencil by an unknown hand. Printed and signed by Tennyson Schad, March 1986.
Print date: 1985
Credit and copyright stamps on the verso, with inscriptions in pencil by an unknown hand. Printed and signed by Tennyson Schad, 1986.
Credit and copyright stamps on the verso, with inscriptions in pencil by an unknown hand. Printed and signed by Tennyson Schad, 1985.
Credit and copyright stamps on the verso, with inscriptions in pencil by an unknown hand. Printed and signed by Tennyson Schad, 1986. Another print in this series with the same title is from a different frame.
Credit and copyright stamps on the verso, with inscriptions in pencil by an unknown hand. Printed and signed by Tennyson Schad, December 1986.
Another print in this series with the same title is from a different frame.
Credit and copyright stamps on the verso, with inscriptions in pencil by an unknown hand. Printed and signed by Tennyson Schad, 1986.
The Robert Jerome Fuhrman papers consist of clippings and marketing reports. Products include Beech-Nut baby foods; Crest toothpaste (Procter & Gamble/Benton & Bowles); Eggland's Best eggs; and Ricola candies and cough drops. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
 Two manuscript account books, 1838-1842, of Fulcher's blacksmith business in Abingdon, Va. Also includes a few loose papers, chiefly receipts, laid in.
Collection consists of correspondence and other papers pertaining to Fulp's role as trustee for Sidney H. Reid, who had just gone into bankruptcy. There are also several account books with accounts of a physician's practice.
Personal and professional correspondence related to life and professional practice of Dr. Fulp.
Ledger for practice of Dr. Fulp, includes names of individuals, dates of visits and calls, and payment received or owed.
Ledger for practice of Dr. Fulp, includes names of individuals, dates of visits and calls, and payment received or owed.
Ledger for practice of Dr. Fulp, includes names of individuals, dates of visits and calls, and payment received or owed.
Ledger for practice of Dr. Fulp with names of debtors and creditors with dates of debits and credits.
Ledger for practice of Dr. Fulp, includes names of individuals, dates of visits and calls, and payment received or owed.
Ledger for practice of Dr. Fulp with names of debtors and creditors with dates of debits and credits.
Ledger for practice of Dr. Fulp, includes names of individuals, dates of visits and calls, and payment received or owed.
Ledger for practice of Dr. Fulp, includes names of individuals, dates of visits and calls, and payment received or owed.
Correspondence, receipts, payment stubs, and legal documents relating to Dr. Fulp's role as trustee for S.H. Reid during bankruptcy proceedings for the latter's general store.
Notice of trustee sale for assets of S.H. Reid and fragment of ledger.
Fragment of a ledger containing names but no account information
Collection is comprised of files documenting the development and daily operations of the Feminist Women's Health Center (FWHC), a feminist non-profit women's healthcare center, from the years 1974-2003. Major components of the collection include files from research studies conducted at the center, policies and procedures for maintaining the center, and incidents of anti-abortion protests at the center, specifically involving the group Operation Rescue. The National Abortion Federation, the professional association of abortion providers in the United States and Canada, also figures prominently throughout these records. The collection is organized into six series: Administrative Files, Clinic Files, Subject Files, Financial Material, Legal Files, and Audiovisual Material. The collection also contains a physically separated Closed Series.
The Administrative Files Series most clearly documents the day-to-day operations of the FWHC. Materials in this series include policies, procedures, and guidelines for operation of the center; minutes and notes from a range of meetings held by the center; personnel files; and schedules. This series contains four subseries: General Administrative Files, Meetings, Personnel Files, and Schedules.
Materials in the Clinic Files Series include a range of records related to clinical services provided and research studies conducted at the FWHC. This series has been divided into four subseries: Statistics, Laboratory Statistics, Research, and Patient Education Information.
The Subject Files Series includes files maintained by the staff of the FWHC on a range of topics related to women's health issues, events, local information, and other women's health clinics. This series contains two subseries: a General subseries which covers these subjects broadly, and an Anti-Abortion Violence subseries which focuses specifically on anti-abortion protests at the FWHC and other locations, the anti-abortion movement in the United States, and pro-choice efforts to counter this movement.
Items in the Financial Material Series consist of records, reports, and files documenting the financial situation of the FWHC between the years 1982 and 2001. These files detail the intricacies involved in operating a women's health clinic from a financial standpoint.
The Legal Files Series contains files related to legal issues faced by the FWHC, including lawsuits and legislation which would affect women's reproductive health and the clinic.
The Audiovisual Material Series consists of 28 audiocassettes and 11 videocassettes. Audiocassettes are primarily recordings of workshops, conference sessions, and events. Videocassettes are primarily educational. One videocassette documents anti-abortion protesters outside the FWHC.
The Closed Series consists of sensitive materials removed from the previous six series and CLOSED to research.
The Administrative Files most clearly document the day-to-day operations of the Feminist Women's Health Center (FWHC). Materials in this series include policies, procedures, and guidelines for operation of the center; minutes and notes from a range of meetings held by the center; personnel files, including training manuals and job descriptions; and schedules.
Consists primarily of files documenting policies, procedures, and guidelines for the operation of the FWHC. Original folder titles were retained whenever possible. Within the subseries are alphabetical runs of files and this order has been retained. Other related files appear in clusters as well, and users are encouraged to use the keyword find feature of their Internet browsers (accessible by clicking Ctrl-F) to locate additional similar files within the document.
Contains files documenting the range of regular meetings held by the FWHC, including daily meetings following clinic hours, monthly staff meetings, and yearly meetings of the Center's Board of Directors, as well as meetings of various committees of the Center.
Of interest in these files is the documentation of the specific training and orientation Center employees were given. Also contains personnel manuals, including one which details a feminist approach to personnel.
Consists of schedules maintained by staff of the FWHC between the years 1990 and 2002. These files depict the various staff members of the FWHC, from volunteers to physicians, and the coordination required to provide offered services.
Materials in this series include a range of records related to clinical services provided and research studies conducted at the Feminist Women's Health Center (FWHC).
The FWHC was required to maintain extensive statistics and records related to services provided. Data collected included details about abortions performed, medications kept and used at the center, and equipment maintenance and cleaning. A significant portion of these statistics were collected for the National Abortion Federation.
Includes (anonymous) laboratory results of tests performed on clinic patients during a certain time period. These files represent the record-keeping practices of the FWHC and indicate the number of patients typically treated by the FWHC as well.
Two large-scale studies including patients of the FWHC as participants were conducted at the Center and are documented in this collection. One of these studies investigated the use of cervical caps as a method of contraception and the other investigated the use of mifepristone and misoprostol (M&M) to medically induce abortion.
The FWHC carried out a study over a period of 9 years on the use of cervical caps. Extensive files in this subseries document the protocols of the study, research conducted about various types of cervical caps, yearly reports, and correspondence. A significant number of survey response cards completed anonymously by participants are also included.
Contains files related to a study of the drugs Mifepristone and Misoprostol conducted at the FWHC. These drugs, also known under the brand name Mifeprex or as RU-486, can be used in conjunction as a form of early abortion. Materials include study protocols, results, forms and information given to participants, and other related information.
Consists of fact sheets related to women's health and information about services provided by the FWHC. These items were made available to patients of the Center.
Includes files maintained by the staff of the Feminist Women's Health Center on a range of topics related to women's health issues, events, local information, and other women's health clinics.
Contains files documenting acts of violence perpetrated against the FWHC, protests held at the FWHC, and court cases related to anti-abortion violence at the FWHC and at other clinics nationwide. Also includes information about anti-abortion groups and individuals which was collected by the FWHC, training information for clinic staff and volunteers about handling anti-abortion incidents and protesters, and photographs of anti-abortion activists both at the FWHC and at other locations so that FWHC staff might recognize them. Some materials in this subseries have been redacted or relocated to the Closed Series.
Contains files, clippings, and newsletters related to women's health, events, local information, other women's health clinics, and issues such as parental notification.
Contains records, reports, and files documenting the financial situation of the FWHC between the years 1982 and 2001. These files detail the intricacies involved in operating a women's health clinic from a financial standpoint.
Contains files related to legal issues faced by the FWHC, including lawsuits and legislation which would affect women's reproductive health and the clinic.
Contains materials sensitive in nature that have been removed from other series in the collection.
Consists of 28 audiocassettes and 11 videocassettes. Audiocassettes are primarily recordings of workshops, conference sessions, and events. Videocassettes are primarily educational. One videocassette documents anti-abortion protesters outside the FWHC.
The Ann Henshaw Gardiner Papers begin in the early years of the settlement of Berkeley County, Virginia, with two pioneer families, those of Captain William Henshaw of Springfield MIlls, Mill Creek, and of William Snodgrass of Clifton Mills, Back Creek. Both groups married into other prominent families of the region, so that their papers furnish two hundred years of local history and genealogical material for Berkeley County. The Andersons, the Verdiers, the Turners, the Evanses, the McConnells, the Pendletons, the Robinsons, and the Rawlingses, among others, appear throughout the collection.
The early letters are predominantly business in character, concerning the land transactions of John Turner, the surveyor of Berkeley County who registered the land titles of many local families. He was related to the Snodgrass family through his marriage to Ruth Rawlings.
By 1814, the correspondence is centered in Robert Snodgrass and his brother Stephen. As Berkeley County produced wheat in abundance, the sale of flour from its mills became increasingly important. The Henshaws of Mill Creek in particular left records of sales of large quantities of flour on the Alexandria and Baltimore markets. The Snodgrasses in this period were also milling although their records are not as numerous for their sales.
Both the Henshaws and the Snodgrasses were involved in the political affairs of Berkeley County. Levi Henshaw (1769-1843) was a gentleman justice of the peace, captain of militia, a member of the county court and of the Virginia House of Delegates, and sheriff in 1840. Robert Verdier Snodgrass (1792-1861) was commissioner of county revenue, a member of the Virginia House of Delegates, and colonel of the 67th Regiment of Virginia Militia. Their papers reflect these offices, both in the correspondence and in the legal papers. Levi Henshaw (1815-1896) married Sarah Ann, the daughter of Robert Verdier Snodgrass, thus uniting the papers of both families.
Berkeley County was an agricultural community, whose conditions were reflected in references to slaves in estates, as runaways, and for sale or hire.
Robert Verdier Snodgrass was concerned in both Democratic politics and legal business with Charles James Faulkner. His son-in-law, Israel Robinson, wrote to Snodgrass of political conditions in Washington, D. C. where he was an office holder. (Later Israel Robinson became clerk of the county court, a judge, and a Confederate general) The son of Robert Verdier Snodgrass, Stephen, became postmaster at Hedgesville, Va., in 1855.
By 1860 the settlement of various family estates reveals a maze of Snodgrass relatives. A letter from a cousin in 1860 comments on John Brown's raid and the arrival of the Japanese Embassy in Washington.
The outbreak of the Civil War shows divided political opinion in the family. In 1862, a letter describes the condition of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad in wartime and of the Negroes in Washington, D.C., where slavery had been abolished. Stephen Snodgrass, a Unionist, did not have an easy time at Hedgesville during the war, and he had to have papers attesting his loyalty. On May 12, 1865, comment is made upon the assassination of President Lincoln.
Henshaw papers predominate after 1865. Business is dull; the collection of money, difficult.
As the family has scattered, letters of cousins come from many places, and grandchildren write to Sarah Ann (Snodgrass), the widow of Robert Verdier Snodgrass.
The first William Henshaw (1736-1799) in Berkeley County had married Agnes Anderson. William was the son of Nicholas Henshaw who came from Philadelphia to Berkeley County; thus Nicholas is the settler, William the first of that home. In 1886 correspondence begins about the history of the Anderson family; letters continue into the twentieth century.
By the 1890's Valley of Virginia Henshaw and her sisters, Mabel and Francis Little Henshaw, begin to write letters about genealogical matters; in particular, the Rawlings family is the subject of great interest.
Mabel Henshaw married Dr. Samuel H. Gardiner. Her concern for history led her to teach at Shepherd College, Shepherdstown, Jefferson County, W. Va., where she also served as librarian. Mrs. Gardiner was a district chairman of the West Virginia Equal Suffrage Association with correspondence in 1915 and 1916 which reveals the methods women were using to insure the pas sage of the woman suffrage amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
The daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Gardiner, Miss Ann Henshaw Gardiner, historian, scientist, and teacher, founded nursing education at the Duke University Hospital in 1930.
Between 1926 and 1930, Mrs. Mabel Gardiner wrote to many friends who remembered details of family weddings in the mid-nineteenth century. As late as 1940 she corresponded with R. B. Woodworth on the history of the Tuscarora Church and other Berkeley County churches. A picture of the Tuscarora Church is with these papers. (See Picture Cab. II-7)
The heart of the Ann Henshaw Gardiner Papers is the collection of legal papers which date from 1763. Both the Snodgrasses and the Henshaws as justices of the peace and county office holders were involved in a great deal of legal business through the ions . A grouping of legal papers for both families is followed by special sections on land surveys, on estate settlements, and on militia.
The general file of legal papers begins with gants from Lord Fairfax in the 1760s, when Berkeley County was still a part of Frederick County, Virginia. Richard Rigg, the land agent for Lord Fairifax, was the first surveyor in the district settled by the Henshaws and the Snodgrasses. Rawlings family deeds appear in the 1770s.
At the end of the Revolutionary War, John Turner appears as a chain carrier for the land surveys of the County. He became county surveyor, an office which he held until his death in 1811.
Among the family wills is that of Nicholas Henshaw (died 1777). With the deaths of Robert and Stephen Snodgrass in 1830 and 1832, a great deal of administrative work for their estates enters the papers, as Robert Verdier Snodgrass was appointed executor for both men. (Robert V. Snodgrass was the sone of Stephen Snodgrass) David Hunter and Israel Robinson are the clerks of the county court in these early documents.
Schools, roads, runaway slaves, the hiring of servants mail are concerns Which occupy the papers. With the death of Robert Verdier Snodgrass in 1861, his estate is settled and the legal papers belong to the Henshaws from that date.
The second division of legal papers concerns the settlement of a number of estates, usually those of relatives . The Turner and Gorrell families had intermarried with the Snodgrasses and Henshaws. The earliest papers dating from 1798 contain the will and estate inventory of Joseph Evans. Israel Robinson was executor of the estate of Elan Miller in 1849.
A large group of legal papers concerns the acquisition of land, basic in Virginia economic life in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. Survey plats began in 1753 in old Frederick County, which had been established in 1738. From it Berkeley County was created in 1772. The first surveys, made for the Rawlings and Morgan families, were for land purchased from Lord Fairfax. Richard Rigg, his surveyor, signed the plats showing the Fairfax grants. Rigg is followed by surveyors Thomas Jones and Josiah Swearingen. Many names of early settlers appear in the survey papers. In the 1780' s a chain carrier, John Turner, began to make surveys. He married Ruth Rawlings, whose land plats are in the papers. John Turner became surveyor for Berkeley County and remained in office till his death in 1810. His son Thomas, who was his deputy, succeeded him as surveyor for the county; The estate papers of the Turner family, elsewhere in the legal papers, show them as early residents of old Frederick County.
In 1803 land office records appear in conjunction with the survey appears. By this time Robert Verdier Snodgrass was a county commissioner of revenue who worked with the Turners in the sale of land.
The Snodgrass family was involved in militia affairs from 1798, when Robert (d. 1830) was a 1st lieutenant in the 67th Regiment 16th Brigade, 3rd Division, Virginia Militia. This county regiment was divided into local companies, each of which was subdivided into classes of roughly seven men. Class rolls, rosters, and officers' lists make up the official papers. By 1820, Robert Verdier Snodgrass was serving as an officer. He became colonel of the 67th Regiment in 1838, thereafter making annual returns.
The constitution of the Berkeley Rangers was drawn up on November 26, 1859, to organize a company of militia from Berkeley County. This company is listed as the Berkeley Border Guards Co. D. 2nd Virginia Infantry, C.S.A. Army, under J.Q.A. Nandenbousch of Martinsburg.
The financial papers are divided between Levi Henshaw I and II and Robert Verdier Snodgrass. Bills and receipts, loans, and household accounts increased as the nineteenth century brought a less self-sufficient life on the farms of Berkeley County. The Snodgrasses no longer lived at the Bill on Back Creek, but had moved to Hedgesville.
With such long family histories in Berkeley County, it was to be expected that descendants of the Henshaws and Snodgrasses should turn to writing the history of their section of Virginia. Valley of Virginia Henshaw was a leader of the Daughters of the American Revolution in Berkeley and throughout West Virginia. Her sisters, Mabel and Frances, were in Martinsburg by 1916. They were the children of Levi Henshaw II and Sarah Ann, the daughter of Robert Verdier Snodgrass.
Mabel (Henshaw) Gardiner wrote a thesis on the history of Martinsburg in 1930 for the degree of Master of Arts at the University of West Virginia. This work was developed into Chronicles of Old Berkeley by Mrs. Gardiner in collaboration with her daughter, Ann Henshaw Gardiner. Published in 1938, this history is based on the Ann H. Gardiner Papers and contains the diaries which Captain Levi and Hiram Henshaw kept on trips to Kentucky, ca. 1828-1830.
Ann Henshaw Gardiner graduated from Shepherd College and went into training in nursing at the Massachusetts General Hospital. She saw service in World War I in a United States Army base hospital in France (U.S. Base Hospital NO. 6). In 1927 she wrote her thesis The Development of the External Form of the Squid Embryo, at Kansas State Agricultural College for the degree of Master of Science. With the manuscripts of this work are pamphlets and papers of Francis Noyes Balch on Cephalopods.
Broadsides and pamphlets refer to Berkeley County and its history, to estate sales in the county, to the Whig Party, to the militia, and to the Free masons.
Clippings pertain to family members and to the story of Martinsburg and West Virginia. A series of articles by B. F. Voegle on local history is also in clipping form.
Among the miscellaneous material is a manuscript arithmetic book, 1790-1791, which was used by Robert Snodgrass II.
The volumes contain a number of old account books and other records. Family data for the Snodgrasses is preserved in their Age Book, 1821-1861 for each generation from William to Robert Verdier Snodgrass, as well as a list of the family slaves and their ages. Daybooks and farm books date fray 1803 to the 1840's. Four postal card albums, an autograph album, and scrapbooks with many other miscellaneous volumes are in the collection.
At the end of the papers are two albums and two manuscript histories of the first ten years of the Duke University School of Nursing. Pictures, programs, invitations, and clippings in the first album document the beginning of the nursing program in 1930. In the second album are photographs of nursing and laboratory classes
A number of letters, poems, and pamphlets unmounted in albums, conclude the nursing papers On December 27, 1934, the Duke University School of Nursing Alumnae Association was organized with a constitution. A reprint from the Southern Medical Association Journal contains the speeches made in April, 1931, at the dedication of the Medical School. Among the pictures are a number of photographs of members of the various classes of the Nursing School. The Henshaw family is well illustrated by pictures of individuals, their homes, and antique furnishlngs. For further details on this collection, see F. Vernon Aler, History of Martinsburg and Berkeley County, West Vlrginia; Willis F. Evans, History of Berkeley County West Virginia; and A. H. and M. H. Gardiner, Chronicles of Old Berkeley.
119 items and 9 vols., added 5-30-71, are letters, financial and legal papers, and scrapbooks and albums of the Henshaw, Snodgrass, and Gardiner families. Manuscripts of the early nineteenth century pertain to the settlement of estates, land transactions, and the hiring of Negro slaves and their deposition. The volumes center in nine scrapbooks and albums - five of which contain post cards of France and all of which are illustrative of the career of Miss Gardiner.
1 item and 1 cassette tape added, 1-24-73: Copies of the address Miss Gardiner gave at the fortieth anniversary banquet of the Alumni Association of the Nursing School of the Duke Medical Center, April 10, 1970.
2 items added, 5-5-84: Letters written by Robert Verdier Snodgrass to his wife Sarah Ann Snodgrass, in Hedgesville, Va., while he was attending a session of the state legislature in Richmond as a delegate. He describes the city of Richmond and a party given by Governor David Campbell, and mentions political colleagues, a military parade, and the failure of the legislature to elect a United States Senator.
Description from the Duke University. David M. Rubenstein Rare Book & Manuscript Library Manuscript Card Catalog.
"Aunt Lilly's children". Tintype
"8 months old". Tintype
Tintype
Tintype
Tintype
Mounted copy photo print of painting or drawing.
Copy photo print of painting or drawing.
Image is of a child.
Photograph is of silhouettes from late 18th and early 19th century.
Includes nurse training at Wesson Maternity, Springfield MA
Images are photographs or photographic copies of original maps and other dicuments.
Images are photographs or photographic copies of original maps and other dicuments.
Original nitrate negatives were scanned, then removed from this folder and discarded.
Collection contains personal/professional correspondence, subject files, and cassette tapes of Lisa Garmon, writings and other materials related to the publication of the feminist zine Ha!, and a zine collection. Acquired as part of the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture.
Collection contains personal/professional correspondence, subject files, cassette tapes, of Lisa Garmon, writings and other materials related to the publication of the feminist zine HA!, and a zine collection.
Consists of 19 pencil and pen-and-ink drawings primarily of women's fashions and bathing suits prepared for retail advertising. Companies represented include Jantzen, Rose Marie Reid and Carr's Fashions. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Correspondence, contracts, legal documents, and other records of the Gennett Lumber Co., mostly for the years 1920 to 1945. The two Gennett brothers Nat and Andrew, founders of the company, were part of the effort to establish the South's national forest system. Subjects covered by materials in the collection include Civil War reminiscences, life at Nashville and at Tulane and Vanderbilt universities shortly after the war, the lumber business after 1890, economic conditions in the U.S. after 1900, forest conservation, U.S. politics and foreign relations during World War I, and travel in Europe after the war.
Examples of newspapers produced by German military regiments from World War I, in folders organized by front. Fronts include Italy, Turkey, Belgium, France, Romania, Poland, the Eastern Front, and Galicia (Spain). There is also a large section of miscellaneous newspapers and illustrated war papers.
This collection's origins are largely unknown, as it came to the David M. Rubenstein Rare Book & Manuscript Library via an internal transfer from Perkins Library. It consists of several folders of newspapers, ranging in length from one to a dozen pages. There are numerous regiments represented; in some cases there are nearly complete runs of the regiment's publication, and in other cases only one or two issues. It appears that all of the German fronts in Europe are represented.
Manuscripts, research files, correspondence, approximately 1287 black-and-white photographs and photostats of documents from various repositories and used in his research, and 3 reels of microfilm. Subjects of the research files and manuscripts include: Dante, Machiavelli, Milton, Jonson, and Aristotle (his POETICS).
Addition (2007-0141; 400 items, 0.5 lin. ft.) contains index files documenting the Gilbert's book collection. Many of these books are now in the collection at the Rare Book, Manuscript and Sepcial Collections Library at Duke University.
English Rejected, copy 3 of copy Anna Maria, 1957 October, Carbon as sent to Laterza
Rubens, Musée Royal de Bruxelles. See Johnson Collection: Venus and Vulcan
Leopere Minore Di Ariosto. In Writing Should Use Subjunctive After I Think, I believe
S. Mara Del Popolo, Rome (Virtues Shown); Chiesa di S. Domenico, Bologna(Virtues Shown); Chiesa Di S. Agostino, San Gimignano, by B. Da Maiano (Virtues Shown); Castel Nuovo, Naples, Arco dii Trionfo del Re Alfonso I. D' Aragona
Persephone and Pluto (Frenth Translation of Ovid, 1539). See Pluto, also Devil
by fountain (wearing necklace, bracelet, and a lawn) Cranack?
Dancing Faun. Nat'l Museum, Naples. See Edgar Wind: Satyr, Bacchus; See Johnson Collection: Faun, Silenvs
Rough Copy Corrected to 1956 August 8
cf. Bacon and Jonson and Herymick (Sp?)
Botticelli, Florence, Savoldo, Borghese Gallery, Filippino Lippi, Kress Collection, Titian, Venice, Chiesa di San Marziale
Addition (400 items, 0.5 lin. ft.) contains index files documenting the Gilbert's book collection. Many of these books are now in the collection at the Rare Book, Manuscript and Sepcial Collections Library at Duke University.
Collection consist chiefly of correspondence, along with wills, deeds, and other personal, business, and legal papers of Mrs. Alberta Stith Jones Gillingham and of her brother, Fred H. Stith, mining speculator, of Cid and Thomasville (Davidson County), North Carolina. Most of the papers are Mrs. Gillingham's and center around the operation of gold, silver, copper, sulphur, and zinc mines in the Cid district of Davidson County, North Carolina, and the complications caused in family relationships because of contested inheritances and property rights. Alberta Gillingham was also a music composer, writer, and teacher; one of her compositions, "General Harrison's inaugural quick-step," was transferred to the post-bellum sheet music collection. Includes materials concerning Furnifold Simmon's campaign for U.S. Senate in 1930, letters from Stith's children in Trinity College (now Duke University), and correspondence between Mrs. Gillingham and William H. Bailey, a lawyer of Charlotte, North Carolina.
The papers consist of correspondence, legal and financial papers, photographs, account books, a memoir book, and miscellaneous papers and span the time period from 1834 to 1953. The bulk of the papers consists of correspondence between 1862 and 1914. This correspondence falls roughly into three major periods, each one consisting of two or three dozen letters.
The first period lasts until the 1890s and focuses on G. F. Simpson's involvement with the construction of a silver ore-crushing mill in Helena, Montana Territory, a venture shared with his brother, Charles H. Simpson; land investments in Kansas; and, after the 1860s, iron ore mining operations in Virginia. The letters from Montana and Kansas also document the harsh life on the American frontier. Included with this mostly business correspondence are a few letters from Thomas B. Sykes describing his experiences at Camp Chase, a Union prisoner-of-war camp near Columbus, Ohio, and as a resident of Aberdeen, Miss. during Reconstruction.
The second period, from the 1890s to 1910, consists chiefly of letters to Emma or her sisters Mary and Mabel, which discuss news of family and friends.
The last period, 1910-1914, consists mostly of correspondence between Emma and her husband Dr. Samuel R. Glover during their courtship and early marriage. Dr. Glover's letters include a limited discussion of his medical practice.
The legal papers include a will, mortgages, and land deeds. The financial papers include receipts and notes, some belonging to the firm of Simpson, Bass and Co. of Richmond, Va., operated by Charles H. Simpson and L. L. Bass, who were commission merchants in flour, grain, hay, and other provisions. The miscellaneous papers include clippings and printed material. There are photographs of Emma Simpson Glover, J. W. Simpson, and Mrs. Margaret Simpson.
The bound volumes consist of two ledgers and accounts, 1914-1921, of Dr. Glover's medical practice; ledger and accounts, 1877-1882, of a general store in Nelson Co., Va., which includes entries for farm and farm labor; and a memoir or scrap book of Mary Simpson, consisting of printed material, clippings, ribbons, and other memorabilia. The memoir book originally served as the cash book of an unknown Virginia firm for 1834-1836.
Business correspondence with G.F. Simpson, personal correspondence with his daughter Emma Simpson Glover from friends and family prior to her marriage, and courtship letters between Emma and her husband, Dr. Samuel R. Glover. Arranged chronologically.
Will, mortgages, and land deeds.
Receipts, notes, and other documents belonging to G.F. Simpson, and Simpson, Bass and Co. of Richmond, Virginia.
Clippings, printed material, and memorabilia.
Photographs of Emma Simpson Glover, J.W. Simpson, and Margaret Simpson.
Mary Simpson's memoir book, which had earlier served as the cash book of an unidentified Virginia firm.
Account books of Dr. Glover's medical practice, and of a general store in Nelson County, Va.
Collection comprises a copy of Walt Whitman's Leaves of Grass (3rd edition), containing Arthur Golden's marks toward his Walt Whitman's Blue Book edition. Golden presented the volume to Professor Gay Wilson Allen in May 1962.
Primarily print advertisements, pamphlets and brochures, corporate publications and other printed materials, personal correspondence, design work and other materials that document Golden's career in advertising and graphic design at CBS Radio and Television. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Includes the CBS "eye" logo; preface by Frank Stanton from the Cipe Pineles book The Visual Craft of William Golden
Collection spans the years 1882-1974 and includes correspondence, tear sheets, clippings, printed material and original artwork that document Golovin's careers running the Willard B. Golovin agency and the Bayer Gallery. Clients include Aberle, Frances Denney, Glen Guard clothiers, and Harry Winston jewelers. There are also files relating to support efforts during World War II and a series of posters addressing absenteeism in war work industries.
Collection comprises writings by Jean Gonzalez/Juana Maria Paz, 1977-2006 and undated, reflecting the breadth of her work and interests, from lesbian feminism to intential community and the lesbian land movement, with a primary focus on community building. Includes journal articles and book chapters, letters to the editor, newsletters, plays, and position statements, often in both draft and published form. Many of these works comprise her signature works in lesbian and feminist theory. Also includes architectural plans and drawings for her home in Twin Oaks.
Acquired as part of the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture.
"Vision of the Enchanted Forest" and "Desire and Consequences: Sleeping with a Strange Man."
"Dead Men-- A Woman's Fantasy," "The Ancient Matriarchy of Atlantis," "Frankly, My Dear...I'm Eating," and "Autobiographical Monologue."
The LA LUZ Journal, and chapter in Heatwave, Women in Love and Lust: Lesbian Short Fiction.
Almost entirely from the print news journal "Off Our Backs."
Somebody to Love: A Guide to Loving the Body You Have.
The centerpiece of this collection is a late 19th century scrapbook belonging to Sarah E. Goodwin of Berwick, Maine, into which manuscript and printed instructions and patterns for the creation of tapestries, collars, edging, capes, mittens, afghans, hoods, curtains, infant shoes, slippers, and other items were pasted and pinned. Patterns for knitting, crocheting, quilting, embroidery, tatting, and other types of handwork are included. Collection also includes a commonplace book of knitting and crocheting patterns, which also contains home remedies for illnesses and diseases, and a variety of household tips, as well as poems, literary quotations, and miscellaneous lists of information. Other items in the collection include a catalogue for a Baptist church in South Berwick, Maine (1898), numerous patterns for embroidered monograms, and many loose patterns.
Acquired as part of the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture.
This collection holds records of three generations of a family of Scots-Irish Presbyterians. Correspondence of Reverend William Graham (1746-1799), who moved from Pennsylvania to Lexington, Virginia, about 1776 and was one of the founders of Liberty Hall Academy (later Washington and Lee University) refers largely to his investment in land on the Ohio River near Marietta after 1796, and his lawsuit claiming he had been cheated.
The bulk of the collection comprises the correspondence of William's brother, Edward Graham, a lawyer and professor at Washington College. There are many letters between Edward's wife, Margaret (Alexander) Graham, and her children. Represented also are William A., Archibald A., Nancy, Elizabeth, and Edward, Jr. Included is correspondence of Edward Graham with Edmund Ruffin concerning scientific experimentation and many letters concerning the patent application of William A. Graham, an inventor, for his fire extinguisher.
There is also correspondence of Dr. John Graham and Beverly Tucker Lacy, grandsons of Edward Graham. Account books of Archibald Graham of Lexington, 1840-1880, 7 vols., include one volume (6 pp.) on the administration of Edward Graham's estate and the guardianship of Martha and Elizabeth Lyle. Account books, 2 vols., of Edward, Sr., contain judgments and court actions, 1801-1811, and accounts of Washington College, Lexington, 1831-1836. A commonplace book, 1820, may relate to Edward Graham. There is a genealogy of the Alexander and Graham families by John A. Graham.
Account book of Archibald Graham. Administration of Edward Graham's estate and guardianship of Martha and Elizabeth Lyle.
Account book of Archibald Graham.
Account book of Archibald Graham.
Account book of Archibald Graham.
Account book of Archibald Graham.
Account book of Archibald Graham.
Account book of Archibald Graham.
Account book of Edward Graham, Sr.
Account book of Edward Graham, Sr.
Genealogy of Alexander and Graham families.
Papers of Adeline E. (Burr) Davis Green (1843-1931) include letters, 1851-1853, from James M. Burr, brother of Adeline (Burr) Davis Green, to his wife describing his life in California searching for gold; James Burr's journal entitled "Journal of a Cruise to California and the Diggins" ; Civil War letters from her second husband and cousin, Wharton Jackson Green (1831-1910), later agriculturist and U.S. congressman, while a prisoner-of-war at Johnson's Island, Ohio; letters, 1882-1885, from her first husband, David Davis (1815-1886), jurist and U. S. senator, describing daily proceedings in the senate, social functions in Washington, D.C., and notable persons; letters from friends of Davis concerning personal and political matters; letters, 1906-1928, from Jessica Randolph Smith and others pertaining to the Daughters of the Confederacy; and letters, 1911-1931, from James Henry Rice, Jr. (1868-1935), ornithologist, naturalist, editor, and literary figure, discussing politics, conservation, South Carolina culture, world affairs, especially relative to Germany and Russia, his rice plantations, and the League of Nations.
"Journal of a cruise to California and the Digging, kept by James M. Burr, Boston, Mass. or Como, Whiteside Co., Illinois"
Most images are portraits, and most are labeled.
Collection includes correspondence, photographs, slides, audiovisual materials in multiple formats (VHS and Umatic videocassettes; audio cassettes; phono records; optical discs, audio and video tape reels, 16mm film), market research reports and financial reports, print advertisements, storyboards, musical scores, cookbooks and other printed materials. Companies represented in the collection include American Cancer Society, Burlington Industries, CBS radio, Chemstrand, Doyle Dane Bernbach, General Foods, Goya Foods, Hathaway shirts, Heinz, International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union, Green Dolmatch, L.C. Gumbinner, New York Times, Paula Green Advertising, Quaker Oats, Seventeen Magazine, Sterling National Bank, Subaru, and the U.S. Public Health Service. Materials cover commercial products and advocacy campaigns for breast cancer awareness, self-examination and prevention, tobacco use and antismoking programs. Most materials are in English; however some items exist in French, Italian, Japanese and Spanish. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Includes: Stretch Jeans, Heinz Happy Soup, Paramount Chicken
Includes: Stretch Jeans, Heinz Happy Soup, Paramount Chicken
Includes ads for Chemstrand Nylon, Eversweet 1960, Gallo
Includes ads for Chemstrand Nylon, Eversweet 1960, Gallo
Includes ads for Chemstrand Nylon, Eversweet 1960, Gallo
Includes ads for Chemstrand Nylon, Eversweet 1960, Gallo
Includes: Charis, Cresta Blanca, Cutex, Eden Roc, French Tourism, Gallo, Goodman's, Hunter Douglas
Includes: Lane, Lawry's, S&W, Salada, Sea Brand, Wedgwood
Includes: Avis, Burlington, Connoisseur
Includes: Charis, Gallo, Lily of France, S&W, Salada, Sea Brand
Includes: Charis, Gallo, Lily of France, S&W, Salada, Sea Brand
Includes: Charis, Gallo, Lily of France, S&W, Salada, Sea Brand
Explanation of ad's circumstances on back
Includes Life Extension Institute, Ms. Magazine, South Carolina Family Practice Residents Association, U.S. Public Health Service anti-smoking
Includes Brooklyn Bridge poster 1983; ILGWU calendar 1990; New York Times print layouts; Philip Morris Bill of Rights Bicentennial 1990; Stanley Home Products print layouts; Subaru print layouts; Tsingtao Vodka print layouts
Master Cassette: Success Story :30; Leftovers :30; Mama Hen :30; Tag :30; Pots :30. Nat B. Eisenberg and Associates.
Busy Takes: Success Story :30; Leftovers :30; Mama Hen :30; Tag :30; Pots :30. Nat B. Eisenberg and Associates.
Pearlie's Chickens :60; Mama's Kitchen :30; Washing :60; 6 Chickens :30; Stuffing :30
Washing :60; 6 Chickens :30; Stuffing :30
All Dressed Up; Full Line; Show and Tell; Telephone No.; Protein
Tag; Alt. :30
Chicken Story; Segment; Color; Kosher, Pearl.
Pearl's Kitchen; show promo for book
Recipe Book spot with Pearl
Lillian, Working Mother :60
Barbees; Bledsoes
Original Material. Lillian; Emma; Generations
Imports; Prine II
Blouses; outdoor and indoor :60
Lydia: Blouses with indoor chorus :60
Bledsoes; Blouses/Meredith with outdoor chorus; Jim Prine/Imports with indoor chorus
Norma II; indoor and outdoor choruses
The Bledsoes with chorus III :60 finished spot
The Bledsoes with chorus III :60 with (Saul) Charkin
Segment on undocumented aliens
Georgia spot
Georgia :60 with full chorus
Georgia to CBS News
Chorus 3 with and without C :40
Work picture of report to convention
Report to convention finished tape 26:00
Report to convention finished tape 26:00
Mention of ILGWU
Convention news coverage
Review of new shows
Talks about opening of ILGWU convention
Johnny Carson joking about ILGWU
Wildcat Strike episode
President Carter in New York
Skit between Barbara and her sister. One of the sisters sings first line of "look for the union label" song
ILGWU mention
ILGWU mention
A Look Back at the Labor Day Parade
Reel 2; tape to tape 710-893
Look for the Union Label
Union Label--Dukes of Hazzard
Union Label remark
Player strike, union label song
Americans Helping Americans/Beverly :30
Clothes in Your Closet/Joan :30
Abraham Lincoln skit, Look for the Union Label
ILGWU song
Cool Whip and the Union Label Ladies
Johnny Carson singing the ILGWU song
This Week with David Brinkley; Good Morning America; Today; Nightline
Circle Line Scene plus intro; "Paternity"
Dub of Mondale and the Labor vote
Reel 2: takes 88-186
Reel 1
Voting :30
Voting :30
Voting :30
Union series; one segment uses "Union Label" women's story
Made in the USA
CWA union story
Saul Charkin, President of ILGWU
Georgia chorus III :60
Reel 1 with time code
Reel 2 with time code
Statue rev. :30
Statue for air, not for air, two spots :30
Statue of Liberty footage
Mention of ILGWU
Broadway Danny Amatullo final master copy
Segment on textiles and trade 11:45
Janie :30; Rosalyn :30; Alan :30; Darren :30
Darren :30
Americans Helping Americans/Beverly :30; Clothes in Your Closet/Kathy :30; Clothes in Your Closet/Joan :30
Take 77: Isabelle
Isabelle :30
Multi-shop: Join In :30
Multi-shop: Join In :30
Production Material Reel 2 60:00
Production Material Reel 3 60:00
Production Material Reel 1 60:00
Multi-shop soundtrack only
Japan master edit
ILGWU
ILGWU
Marlo Thomas and Friends no commercial slugs
Report to convention I; protection master not used
Crafted with Pride/Made in the USA: Department Store rev. :30; Quick Changes--Spring Summer :30
Multi-shop Join In :30; Lillian :30; Statue :30; Song We Sing :30
On Stage :30
On Stage :30
Susan :30; Judy and Jasmine :30; Ramona :30
Susan :30; Judy and Jasmine :30; Ramona :30
Reel 1 and 2: Group shots and singles of group members
Reel 3: Singles and group men, three-somes, two shots
Tape 4: Banner; Susan Ransom
Tape 5 30:00
Tape 6 30:00
Tape 7: Ramona and Julio; Art card; Nat and Paula 30:00
Casting session for vignettes
Georgia; Jim Prine; Meredith; Voting; Statue; Susan; Judy; Ramona
On Stage II :30
On State II :30
On Stage II :30
Union Label Committee presentation
Convention presentation to Union Label Seminar
Joel and Perry's Excellent Shoot; Roxanne reel 1 handheld factory/TV production
Joel and Perry's Excellent Shoot; Roxanne reel 2 handheld factory
Joel and Perry's Excellent Shoot; Roxanne reel 3 handheld factory
Wild footage shot in Neptune, N.J. at Roxanne factory, Reel 1, part 1 of 2
Wild footage shot in Neptune, N.J. at Roxanne factory, Reel 2, part 1 of 2
Alan Green's Roxanne factory shoot "auditions"
Factory shoot Roxanne
We Make Jobs :30
We Make Jobs :30
We Make Jobs :30
We Make Jobs :30
We Make Jobs :30
We Make Jobs :30
Banners
Banners
Roughcut A roll (people talking)
Roughcut B roll (people working, dolly shots)
Roughcut B roll #2 (bathing suit shots and labels being sewn)
We Make Jobs :30
We Make Jobs :30
Report to Convention audio tracks
Mini doc for Convention 92 Roxanne factory and auditions; rough cut no narration
Convention report materials, graphic only
Union Label Committee titles
Pt. 1 Lillian, Working Mother; Pt. 2 Union Label Seminar
8 representative commercials, 1976-1991; 1-5 union vs. imports 1976-1986; 6-8 union and families 1991
Casting tape 1
Casting tape 2
Health Care :30
Health Care :30
Buddy Hackett promo
Lee's Carpets; Galey and Lord; SOS Soap Pads; Soggy Cereal; Life Cereal
Betty Furness remarks on Maypo
Helen Hayes
Paula Green on Action 9 program
You've Come a Long Way, Baby :60; Zora Lampert :20; Still :30
Uphill :30; Snow Storm :60; Soccer Balls :30
Woman and Smoking; Stills; Good Reasons
Bob Levinson camera test
New York Times 8 commercials; Subaru 3 commercials; Paramount Poultry 5 commercials
New York Times 8 commercials; Subaru 3 commercials; Paramount Poultry 5 commercials
Lola Falana 8 commercials
How Advertising Portrays Women
Stanley auditions; Nicky Counselman, Nancy Lester, Georgia Creighton, Joan See
Great American Smokeout
Smokewatch :10 and :30
Second Careers People; People B
Second Careers People :30 and :10
Second Careers People :30 and :10
Burlington: Lee's Carpets; USPHS Stills; American Cancer Society: Breast Exam, PAP test; Burlington: Galey and Lord
Remembering film transfer
New York Times; Subaru; Paramount Poultry; Goya Foods; Marval Poultry; Standard Milling; Sterling National Bank; American Cancer Society; ILGWU
New York Times; Subaru; Paramount Poultry; Goya Foods; Marval Poultry; Standard Milling; Sterling National Bank; American Cancer Society; ILGWU
New York Times; Subaru; Paramount Poultry; Goya Foods; Marval Poultry; Standard Milling; Sterling National Bank; American Cancer Society; ILGWU
New York Times; Subaru; Paramount Poultry; Goya Foods; Marval Poultry; Standard Milling; Sterling National Bank; American Cancer Society; ILGWU
Because :30; Soccer Balls :30; Snow Storm :60
New York Times; Subaru; Paramount Poultry; Goya Foods; Marval Poultry; Standard Milling; Sterling National Bank; American Cancer Society; ILGWU
Cigarette World :60
Bradley; Cross; Kelly
Conductor and tuba takes
Home Delivery :10; Tuba player, organist
Whirling Ball--John Horsey :30
Classified Section :10
Classified Section :10
Bradley; Cross; Kelly
Ted; Joan; Business
Ted; Joan :10
Arts and Leisure/Bacall selected takes
Buddy Hackett :30
Best Foods Day
Organist, tuba takes
Robert Loggia; Tammy Grimes; Kevin Conway; Belilnda Cusak
Buddy Hackett all takes
Doctors :30
Fashions of the Times :30
7 commercials
Conductor and tuba takes
Conductor Home Delivery :10; Tammy Grimes :30
Classified Section :10
Pearl Bailey :30
12 commercials
Buddy Hackett :30
Ragtime :30 Max Morath
Arts and Leisure Lauren Bacall
Oil Sheiks :30
Tape 5 auditions: Yolanda Childress; Marvin Lichterman; Vicky Rauch; Bill Griffis
Total Joy :30
Total Joy :30
Breakaway :30; Charts :30; Elegant Table :30
Now's the Time :30
I Do, I Do :10; Pledge :10; Parts :10
I Do, I Do :10; Pledge :10; Parts :10
Summertime Turkey
Summertime Turkey
Turkeys
Bean Table :30; Pink Beans :30; Black Bean Soup :30
Toni Ficalora complete shoot
Toni Ficalora complete shoot
Bean Book :30
Bean Book :30
Hermione #1 takes 1-52
Healthy Eating :30; Salad Toss :30; Add 'Ems :30
Healthy Eating :30; Salad Toss :30; Add 'Ems :30
Goya Beans with Zohra Lampert
Lazy Susan logos
Cass I takes 1-55
Reel 1-A takes 1-16
Reel 1 takes 17-101
Reel 2
Reel 3
Reel 3 production material
Reel 4
Reel 5 60:00
Reel 6
Reel 7
Reel 8
Healthy Eating :30; Salad Toss :30; Add 'Ems :30
Reel 1 production material
Reel 2 production material
Playback Goya Sazon
Sazon dub
Sazon all takes
Sazon Goya rough cut
New Beans :30
New Beans :30
New Beans :30
New Beans 3 spots; Sazon :30
Sazon :30
Sazon :30
Sazon :30
Sazon :30
Sazon :30
Sazon :30
Sazon :30
Sazon :30
Sazon :30
Sazon :30; New Beans :30
Salad Toss :30; New Beans :30; Sazon :30; Healthy Eating :30; The Add 'Ems :30
Salad Toss :30; New Beans :30; Sazon :30; Healthy Eating :30; The Add 'Ems :30
Freeze 'Ems :30; Front Porch :30
Goya Nectars shoot reel 1
Goya Nectars shoot reel 2
Goya Nectars shoot reel 3
Goya Nectars shoot reel 5
Goya Nectars shoot reel 4
Adobo the Chicken :30
Front Porch :30; Freeze 'Ems :30; obsolete never to leave the house
Goya tape 2
Goya tape 1
Goya tape 3
Goya 50th anniversary 2nd revision 10:00
Goya 50th anniversary English version 10:00
Sazon Goya tape 2, day 2-3
Sazon Goya tape 1, day 2
Sazon Goya tape 1B
Sazon Goya tape 2A
Sazon Ginnie :30; Sazon Maria :30
Sazon Ginnie :30; Sazon Maria :30
Goya Beans Place on Your Plate :30
Goya Beans Place on Your Plate :30
Goya Beans Place on Your Plate :30
Goya Beans Place on Your Plate :30
Place on Your Plate :15 versions
Sazon Ginnie rough edits 4 versions
Sazon Ginnie :15; Place on Your Plate :15
Doors :30
Doors :30
Doors :30
Remote production material reel 2
Remote production material reel 1
Because :30; Soccer Balls :30; Snow Storm :60
Phyllis, Jeffra, Jean, Connie
Because :30; Soccer Balls :30; Snow Storm :60
Bean Table :30; Pink Beans :30; Black Bean Soup :30
Maria and Joan version A and B; Mom's Reward
Lura Barnes-Howes; Lois Dengrove; Joyce West; Joanie Bakum; Leigh Hamilton; Mary Canavanagh
Traditional; Traditional/Inversion; Look for the Union Label; Combination with intro; Harmonica soloed; Harmonica :12
664 Look Good; 665 Easter Parade
664 Look Good; 665 Easter Parade
664 Look Good; 665 Easter Parade
Union Label; Join In Everybody; Join In orchestral version; We Make Jobs
Norma "Taller de Union" :20; Ana Luisa "Familias" :20; Laura "Beneficias" :20; Orchestra and chorus, solo
Orchestra and chorus; Orchestra alone; Anna Luisa; Norma; Laura
Orchestra and chorus; Orchestra alone; Anna Luisa; Norma; Laura
Grace Garland; Abra Bigham; Joan Rosenfels; Zelda Puliam; Allison Held
Fresh turkey promos: A Letter; My Goodness; I Have Tasted
My Goodness MVL-644
Look of Love; Taste of Honey; By the Time I Get to Phoenix; Sunny; Windmills; Feeling Groovy; What the World Needs Now; Who Am I; All My Laughter
Tammy; Blue Collar; Home Delivery; Subaru Key; Wheels; Women's Wagon; Travelling VO
Got My Family Life; I Am On My Way
Buying Chickens; Six Chickens
Barbara Cartland; The Formula; Havioline Supreme Motor Oil; Children of the Lion
Moods; Instrumental colors; Ethnic; Styles; Statement
New York Times: Margaret Mary; Blue Collar; Public Health Service: Dog; William; Subaru: The Key; Snowstorm; Marval; Cardio Fitness; Tsing Tao
Horns :30; Hoofbeats :30
Key; Wheels; Woman; Music; Instrumental; Music with vocal
New York; Philadelphia; Washington; Dallas; Chicago
Young man/old man :55; Young woman :30; Gonna Tell You Somethin' :30
Norma :60; Emma :60; Meredith :60; Isabelle :60 (Spanish); Chorus music only; Norma Taller de Union Chorus III; Carmen Chorus III
Bus pass by; Clicks; Heavy Traffic; Medium Traffic
Judy and Jamin; Susan; Ramona
Ramona; Susan; Judy; Judy and Jamin
Jim Roach Sunday Features; Jim Roach Sportswriters; Dress Dress; Al Marlins Travel
Key; Wheels; Woman; Music; Instrumental; Music with vocal
Key; Wheels; Woman; Music; Instrumental; Music with vocal
Key; Wheels; Woman; Music; Instrumental; Music with vocal
William PHS; Gonna Tell You Something PHS; Young and Female PHS; Home Delivery Music NYT
Traditional; Traditional/Inversion; Look for the Union Label; Combination with intro; Harmonica soloed; Harmonica :12
Traditional; Traditional/Inversion; Look for the Union Label; Combination with intro; Harmonica soloed; Harmonica :12
America the Beautiful; Look for the Union Label; Oh Beautiful
America the Beautiful; Look for the Union Label; Oh Beautiful
Union Label; Join In Everybody; Join In orchestral version; We Make Jobs
Margaret Mary; Arthur Daley; N.Y. Survey; Blue Collar; Tammy Grimes Stand By
O'Connor "Ratings"; O'Connor "TV News"; Honan "Guide"; Honan "Artists"
"LBJ" Ed Binns; Starting Sunday; Now Appearing
O'Connor "Ratings"; O'Connor "TV News"; Honan "Guide"; Honan "Artists"
Pearl Bailey; Mets Radio Sign Man; Football Training Camp; Football Player; Dave Anderson
Suburban Housewife; Business Man; Working Woman; Blue Collar
Blue Collar; Clive Barnes Black Theatre; Oysters (Female); Tammy Grimes Bright and Shiny; Kelly
Max Frankel III; John Leonard 2000 Books
Serious Music; Suburban Housewife
New York Survey; Oysters; Problems
Pearl Bailey; Buddy Hackett; Suburban Housewife; Business Man; Working Woman; Blue Collar; Double Decker Bus; Oysters
Organist; Tuba; Conductor
Talking to Your Plants; Dear Joan Faust; Spring Has Sprung; The Move to the Suburbs; Alan Truscott
William; 1,2,3; Hayseed; Reading; The Cigarette World
Zohra Lampert; Barbara Speilberg; Geraldine Fitzgerald; Scorecard; Young Man Old Man; Young Woman; Gonna Tell You Something; Her Automatic Cigarette
William; 1,2,3; Hayseed; Reading; The Cigarette World
Zohra Lampert; Barbara Speilberg; Geraldine Fitzgerald; Bob Loggia
Healthy Eating :30; Salad Toss :30; Add 'Ems :30
Healthy Eating :30; Salad Toss :30; Add 'Ems :30
Emma retired worker; Jim Prine II; Norma II outdoor; Bledsoes with chorus; Song We Sing
Susan; Judy and Jamin; Ramona
Susan; Judy and Jamin; Ramona
Susan; Judy and Jamin; Ramona
Susan; Judy and Jamin; Ramona
Susan; Judy and Jamin; Ramona
I Do, I Do; Pledge; Parts
Americans Helping Americans; Clothes in Your Closet; A Little American Flag: Beverly; Kathy; Joan
Billy Graham on Lt. Calley; Home Delivery
Pearlie's Kitchen; Mama's Kitchen
Pearlie's Kitchen; Mama's Kitchen
Pearlie's Kitchen; Mama's Kitchen
Lillian; Emma; Grandmother/Granddaughter; Barbees; Bledsoes; Meredith/Outdoor chorus; Lydia/Indoor chorus; Jim Prine/Indoor chorus
Jim Prine; Emma; Donnie & Marie; Merv Griffin; Saturday Nite Live
Sports; Nixon in China; Whirling Ball; Wall St.; Bouncing Ball
Readers of the Times; Home Delivery; Ada Louise; Op Ed
Washing; 6 Chickens; Stuffing; Recipe Book; Turkey
Man Smoking in Reverse; Cigarette Smoking
Two Girls; Cigarette in Ashtray
Fitzgerald; Logia; Spielbergs
Quit Now; Barbara Spielberg; Zohra
Burlington: Lee's Carpets; USPHS Stills; American Cancer Society: Breast Exam, PAP test; Burlington: Galey and Lord
Washing; 6 Chickens; Stuffing; Recipe Book; Turkey
Washing; 6 Chickens; Stuffing
Mamma Hen; Leftovers; Pots; Joy; Success Story
Puppy Palace; U.S. Public Health Service; Lee's Carpet; Burlington; Life Cereal; American Cancer Society
Women Smoking; That's a Good Reason; Just Like Men; What Do I Tell Myself Now
New York Times: Home Delivery; Composite jingles; Subaru radio spots
Compilation: New York Times; Paramount Poultry; Goya Foods; Marval Poultry; Standard Milling; Sterling Bank; American Cancer Society; ILGWU
Compilation: New York Times; Paramount Poultry; Goya Foods; Marval Poultry; Standard Milling; Sterling Bank; American Cancer Society; ILGWU
Doyle Dane Bernbach.
Doyle Dane Bernbach. "Getting Rid of the Work Is the Work of Burlington."
Doyle Dane Bernbach.
Doyle Dane Bernbach.
Collection consists of four volumes connected with Dr. Eugene Grissom, related to his superintendentship of the North Carolina Insane Asylum in Raleigh.
Volume 1 is a register of admissions, 1883-1887, including information about white patients admitted to the Raleigh Insane Asylum including names, NC county of residence, and occasionally the outcome of their admission (typically either their cause of death or the note that they had left the hospital, cured). This register tracked only admissions for the Eastern Division of white patients in North Carolina; patients residing in the Western Division were treated at an insane asylum in Morganton.
The other three volumes are scrapbooks, largely consisting of clippings about Grissom or the asylum. All of these scrapbooks include coverage of Grissom's medical lectures and papers on the treatment of the insane, his roles in various medical organizations, the work of the insane asylum as a progressive institution, and the political turmoil Grissom occasionally faced.
In addition to clippings relating to Grissom's medical career and his work at the Insane Asylum, Volume 2 (a scrapbook dated 1875-1877) includes clippings from various newspapers covering a controversy about whether Grissom (a Republican) should be removed from his position as superintendent during the fallout of the 1877 election in North Carolina.
Volume 3 is a scrapbook assembled by A. Watkins Verith (sp?) on Grissom's behalf, dating from circa 1877-1880. It includes clippings and notations (by Verith) about Grissom's political career, including debates about his potential run for North Carolina governor in 1879; coverage of a controversy with Dr. William A. Hammond over Grissom's treatment methods (including Grissom's proponency of mechanical restraints for violent patients, such as handcuffs and straightjackets); his expert testimony in a Danville murder case that the accused, Justin Thomas Dejarnette, was clinically insane; as well as public notices about his various lectures and appearances.
Volume 4 (1877-1880) contains clippings and some annotations about Grissom's service as superintendent for the Insane Asylum, including a published letter from Dorothea Dix praising the work of the hospital. There are additional clippings covering the Dejarnette murder case (1880), Grissom's involvement in Masonic ceremonies in 1880, and Grissom's potential runs for governor.
Collection includes three generations of the Hall family and documents their involvement with tobacco and other plantation operations in Maryland during the 18th and 19th centuries, including the shift to lumber and wheat after 1800. Also includes information on cotton plantations in South Carolina and the sale of cotton to England, Maryland politics and government in the 1780s, insurrections by enslaved people, and naval impressment at the time of the War of 1812.
The papers begin in 1736, when John Hall (ca. 1717-1790) and his brothers Henry and William become actively engaged in tobacco planting. The letters open with a land indenture of 1745 and continue as business correspondence with London, Annapolis, Baltimore, and local merchants and factories. Comment is made on salt as a necessity for plantation life in 1778 and 1782. An overseer's contract in 1764 gives details of plantation management and enslavement.
A letter is signed by John Hall of "Vineyard" on June 11, 1778. As a member of the Maryland Assembly, he discusses the check and balance theory as it was working out in the "young government" of Maryland, he mentions violent contests, the quit rents and state revenue, militia service, and the role of the governor. In 1787 "Publicanus" addresses the people of Anne Arundel Co. on the topic of paper money.
The will of John Hall (made in 1787) gives his estate as "Bachelor's Choice," on West River, and names his children and their families. Enslaved people are listed as part of the estate. Many of the later letters are from the families of Hall sibilings to William Henry Hall, son of John Hall. A series of law suits occurs in the 1790s as William Henry Hall settles his father's estate.
A letter dated Oct. 3, 1796, to William Henry Hall describes the life of an American seaman impressed into the British navy. Samuel Hopkins, a young Maryland plantation overseer, and John Wilson of Cheraw, S. C., comment in letters to Hall from 1810-1813 on cotton planting in S. C. Hopkins describes on July 1, 1810, a plot by enslaved people to rise against enslavers in the Marlboro District of S. C. In 1813 he writes of hiring a substitute for himself if drafted in the War of 1812. Among W. H. Hall's correspondents were William, John, David, and John G. Weems of Anne Arundel Co., relatives of Mason Locke ("Parson") Weems.
The bills and receipts contain many an "acct. sale" of tobacco, listing custom duties, charges, etc., in tobacco shipping. Estate inventories for Major Henry Hall, 1758, Thos. Lane, 1790-98, John Hall, 1795, and Mrs. Ruth Hall, 1803, include enslaved people and list possessions. Many mercantile and household accounts are included.
There are 7 volumes dated 1765-1902. Six are account books, two that belonged to John Hall and 4 to William Henry Hall. There is one volume that belonged to Harriet Hall.
Collection comprises business and family correspondence, accounts, and receipts, including papers related to several of Hamilton's business partnerships (dating mainly from 1785 to 1818) and numerous private transactions, including purchases of slaves (1784-1785, 1801, 1808). There also are papers from voyages of ships in which he had a major interest, including routes to India, the Mediterranean, and the West Indies. The collection concludes with accounts and records related to the settlement of his estate from 1832 to 1870.
Subject headings found in the correspondence were compiled by a researcher in 2005.
Includes cotton and rice, London market, and shipping.
Includes cotton and rice, London market, shipping, and one letter from niece in London, 1804.
Includes tobacco, steam engine (1805), cotton, financial, panic, France (1806), and politics.
Includes rice and tobacco.
Includes poor crops (1808) and other miscellaneous materials.
Collection comprises 37 letters, dated 1850-1866, Abraham Hanson wrote to his wife, Lydia, and one he wrote to his father from Monrovia, Liberia, among other places. Topics include abolition, diplomatic duties, commercial affairs, emigration, shipboard travel, the condition of Liberians and his aspirations for them, health concerns, and personal matters. There are also 15 incoming letters written to Hanson and his wife, dated 1846-1866, reporting on Hanson's welfare and conditions in Liberia and Africa, along with personal travel and religious matters. Includes several condolences written to Lydia following Hanson's dearth. In addition, there is funeral sermon Hanson preached on 1848 December 10 in Wisconsin, a copy of the New York City Colonization Society's circular dated 1840 May 3, and a copy of an 1852 Liberian court decision regarding payment of tuition and provision of clothing for Robert Savage. There is also a sermon dated 1863 Dec 10, entitled "Zion's Compliance and God's Answer, Isaiah 49-16-15." Two of the letters in the collection are incomplete. Acquired as part of the John Hope Franklin Research Center for African and African American History and Culture.
Collection comprises Haworth's medical diary and journal (approximately 156 pages), including his notes on treatment of physical ailments and on childbirth in the rural south before and after the Civil War. Haworth studied medicine at Jefferson Medical College in Philadelphia; he recorded the purchase of this notebook at Auner's bookstore to be used for his medical notes during 1846-1847. At the beginning he listed the titles and prices for the medical reference books he purchased. He then recorded 30 pages of remedies and cures, and provided a 4-page manuscript index to this material bound in at the back of the volume. He also included notes on course instruction (at one point mentioning the lectures of Nathaniel Chapman). The balance of the volume is, however, a record of over 750 obstetric deliveries that Haworth accomplished during his career, some with full case histories. The organization of the notebook is somewhat confused because Haworth stitched in pages with notes written longitudinally among the original medical course lecture notes he retained. The obstetric entries date from 1846-1894; there are two clippings inserted, one dated 1908.
Collection consists of correspondence, diaries, notes, scrapbooks, clippings, and literary manuscripts of Hayne and his family. The papers illustrate Hayne's career and refer to Russell's Magazine (which Hayne edited), literary criticism, Southern writers, American literature, politics, Reconstruction in South Carolina, Civil War conditions, fears of Black or enslaved peoples' rebellions, poor economic conditions for white Southerners, and general antagonism towards the writings of Walt Whitman and William Dean Howells. Includes Hayne's diaries (1864-1884), largely composed of comments on correspondence received, notations of ideas and events, and manuscript copies of poems, many autographed, by Hayne's son, William Hamilton Hayne.
Major correspondents include Edward Bok, Jefferson Davis, Charles A. E. Gayarré, Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sidney Lanier, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Thomas Nelson Page, James Platt, Margaret Junkin Preston, Francis S. Saltus, William Gilmore Sims, Edmund C. Stedman, Alexander H. Stephens, Algernon C. Swinburne, Henry Timrod, Moses Colt Tyler, and John Greenleaf Whittier.
The addition (accession #2000-0273) (250 items; 2.2 linear feet, dated 1831-1886, contains transcriptions of selected letters, typed and annotated by Rayburn Moore as he edited A Man of Letters in the Nineteenth-century South (1982). Many of the original letters may be found in Duke University's David M. Rubenstein Rare Book & Manuscript Library.
Typed and annotated by Rayburn Moore, editor of A Man of Letters in the Nineteenth-Century South: The Selected Letters of Paul Hamilton Hayne, 1982
This collection consists mostly of letters to Benjamin S. Hedrick, Professor of Chemistry at the University of North Carolina, 1854-1856, and Examiner in the Patent Office, Washington, D.C., from 1861 until his death in 1886. In 1856, expelled from the University for his opposition to slavery, he was driven from North Carolina. However, it is evident from his correspondence that he maintained an intense concern for the welfare of his native state and employed his influence in Washington for the benefit of the state during the Civil War and Reconstruction period.
The collection consists largely of correspondence between the Hedricks and their friends and colleagues. Early correspondence from 1848-1854 includes family news and affairs. Letters of courtship between Benjamin Hedrick and Mary Ellen Thompson, dated 1851-1852 (before their marriage), mainly detail personal news and opinions on new fashions and trends, such as bloomers, temperance, and women's rights. Political events are also mentioned, including the Railroad Jubilee of September 1851, as well as Hedrick's impressions of Harvard and details about his activities while travelling in the North.
Letters from 1854 discuss Hedrick's decision to accept the professorship position at the University of North Carolina and his subsequent plans for the program there. In 1856, Hedrick's article opposing slavery and endorsing John Fremont and the Republicans was published in the North Carolina Standard. The collection includes both clippings, minute excerpts, and correspondence about his subsequent expulsion from the University. Also included are details about the publicity and negative reactions to Hedrick's views; one letter from Mary Ellen Thompson Hedrick recounts UNC students burning Hedrick in effigy. Letters from the Hedricks' friends and supporters describe their own troubles in finding work as a result of backing Hedrick, and also include updates on the political climate throughout the country. Hedrick's grandfather, Benjamin Sherwood, was a regular correspondent from Marion County, Iowa, and provided regular news and opinions on the conditions of the Midwest. He opposed slavery, Democratic Party, and immigration from Catholic countries, and favors letting the Southern states secede. His letters also include family history along with updates from Marion county activities. Know Nothings, President Buchanan's cabinet, and Kansas violence are all discussed in letters from 1856-1857.
After Hedrick's expulsion and departure from North Carolina, incoming letters from friends and family offer news and updates on Chapel Hill residents, including University of North Carolina adminstrators and professors; schools; crops and prices; as well as family news, courtships, and events. Several letters mention Hinton R. Helper's book, The Impending Crisis of the South: How to Meet It, which Benjamin Hedrick helped promote in 1858. At one point, Hedrick is warned against travelling in North Carolina until after the presidential election, for his own safety.
Following Lincoln's election in 1860, Benjamin Hedrick's letters describe the flood of Republicans moving to Washington, including his own relocation and pursuit of an appointment in the Patent Office. Included is a letter from March 1861 where he describes meeting President and Mrs. Lincoln. Meanwhile, letters to Hedrick from North Carolina mention secession fervor in Charleston, South Carolina, as well as preparations for arming white citizens against Black people. The North Carolina convention and its delegates are discussed, as are preparations for war in both the North and the South. Hedrick writes about the feelings in Washington, while his stepsister describes sewing uniforms for soldiers in New Bern, North Carolina.
There is little material directly related to the Civil War, apparently due to interruption of mail service between North Carolina and Washington. The letters within the collection include mention of several battles, including Fort Sumter, Bull Run, Gettysburg, and Chickamauga. The homefront is also reported on, including North Carolina's conscription laws, the confiscation of Union-sympathizers' property, the arrival of refugees, and the condition of UNC's campus. Politics are another frequent topic, including the Copperheads.
One interesting component of the collection is a group of letters from John A. Hedrick, Benjamin Hedrick's brother and Internal Revenue Collector at Beaufort, N.C. John Hedrick's original letters are interfiled chronologically with the collection, and also exist in typewritten form, filed together at the end of letters from 1863. His reports from Beaufort mention the health and condition of the city; the arrival of refugees after the battle for Plymouth in April 1864; the spread of measles and smallpox; and his thoughts on the Massachusetts 55th Regiment, an African American regiment stationed in North Carolina. In February 1865, John Hedrick writes that the presence of African American Union troops keep Confederate troops away, since they do not like to fight Black soldiers. His correspondence also mentions the death of Lincoln and Johnston's surrender to General Sherman. Post-war letters discuss North Carolina politics, universal suffrage, and crop-sharing by former slaves. He denounces W. W. Holden, the North Carolina provisional governor, and encourages Benjamin Hedrick to run. Later letters describe the North Carolina Constitional Convention and subsequent election of 1868, where both brothers ran for Congress (Benjamin for the 4th District, John for the 2nd District).
Another notable sub-group of letters about the Civil War come from prisoners of war at Point Lookout, Old Capital, Camp Elmire, Fort Deleware, and Johnsons' Island prisons. The prisoner letters exist only in typewritten form; no originals remain with the collection.
Following the surrender, correspondence transitions to discuss North Carolina's adjustment to Reconstruction. Benjamin Hedrick's visit to North Carolina results in a report to the Secretary of the Treasury that Carolina wants peace, and that hunger, crime, and speculation are serious problems for the population. Some letters to Hedrick complain about freedmen and their labor. Several correspondents discuss the poverty they face in the post-war period, both from their loss of property to the Confederacy and in their loss of slave labor following emancipation. Many write to Hedrick asking for seeds. One notable letter to Hedrick from February 2, 1866, comes from Milly Walker, formerly enslaved by D.L. Swain, who writes she is searching for her father and three children, who had been owned by Dr. Shoaf of Washington.
Another common topic in 1865 is Hedrick's efforts in establishing Internal Revenue districts throughout the state, resulting in much correspondence about the various posts and jobs that resulted.
The political letters of value are found mostly between 1865 and 1870. There is much discussion of the election and its various components, including candidates W.W. Holden and Jonathon Worth; secret political parties, including the Red Strings; the distrust towards the military government; and the issue of universal suffrage. The Test Oath is strongly criticized as impossible, and North Carolina statehood, disenfranchisement, and inclusion into the Union is a regular concern for correspondents, including Hedrick. Many letters denounce W.W. Holden as provisional governor, who is accused of electioneering among the state's freedmen. Hedrick is asked multiple times to promote Jonathon Worth among Northern newspapers. Hedrick's own political ambitions are regularly discouraged by his wife, who in 1867 also writes that he should not accept the presidency of UNC. Several letters in 1868 mention signs of the Ku Klux Klan. Others discuss national politics and the impeachment of President Johnson.
Letters from late 1868 and early 1869 detail the takeover of the University of North Carolina by Col. C.L. Harris and the subsequent appointment of Solomon Pool as president. With Holden as governor, Internal Revenue business in North Carolina beomes a regular topic of correspondence. In May 1869, Hedrick writes of his changing interest from politics to the growth of industry and the activities of the Patent Office. Later letters contain reports on North Carolina news and events, including the activities of the Ku Klux Klan, Governor Holden's impeachment, the Greensboro railroad, a report on the revitalization of UNC, and other political news.
Another significant part of the collection consists of patent papers from Hedrick's career in the Patent Office, including reports and other information on disputed patent cases.
In addition to the patent papers, there is an extensive and varied collection of printed materials that is helpful in glimpsing the personal, professional, and social life of a civil servant in post-Civil War Washington. Besides the usual accumulation of advertisements, calling cards, etc., there are numerous items on the Freemasons, the Cosmos Club of Washington, the American Association for the Advancement of Science and Art, and the formative years of the American Chemical Society, among others. One group of items deals with the litigation of the bankrupt house of Jay Cooke and Co., in which Hedrick had holdings. Another series of items contains commenement announcements, etc., from the various schools and colleges with which the Hedrick family was associated (including Georgetown University, New York University, the United States Naval Academy, Cooper Union, Johns Hopkins, Rutgers Female Institute of New York City). Other items relate to political events of the mid-nineteenth century, such as a group of memorial exercises for Samuel F.B. Morse, James A. Garfield, and Charles Darwin, as well as an invitation to the services for the removal of James Monroe from New York to Richmond in 1858. There are also a number of printed pieces relating directly to the events of the Civil War and Reconstruction era, including broadsides, announcements, pamphlets, and clippings.
Bills and receipts cover four decades of business transactions, beginning with Hedrick's college days. Among the miscellaneous items are drafts of political speeches, newspaper articles (mostly ante-bellum), and an assortment of school papers and genealogical items. The bound volumes accompanying the collection are three memoradum books and one daybook.
The David Newton Henderson Papers contain the office files of Congressman Henderson when he was the U.S. Representative for the Third District of North Carolina. The papers span from 1930 to 1976, but the bulk of the papers covers Henderson's years in office, 1961-1976. Henderson's predecessor, Congressman Graham A. Barden, left Henderson many papers on ongoing business, especially local projects.
The Henderson Papers contain correspondence, printed material, speeches, invitations, newspaper clippings, photographs, newsletters, financial statements, legislative reports and notes, and drafts of bills. The great majority of this collection is correspondence which Henderson's office exchanged with constituents, legislative officials, and officials of federal and state agencies.
The papers are divided into the following fifteen series:
Campaign Files
Case Files
Committee Files
Correspondence: Answer Copies
County Project Files
Engagements
Federal and State Agencies
Legislation
Military Academy Files
Newsletters and News Releases
Newspaper Clippings
Post Office Files
Speeches
Subject Files
Oversize Box
The largest series are Committee Files, County Project Files, Federal and State Agencies, Legislation, and Subject Files. The Committee Files contain material relating to Henderson's various committee and subcommittee memberships and reflect the actual creation of legislation. The Legislation Series contains drafts of specific bills and legislative reports and notes. Subject Files contain mostly constituent mail on legislation, current issues, and various subjects. County Project Files concern projects and local affairs in the Third District. The Federal and State Agencies Series reflects Henderson's role as an intermediary between constituents' problems and requests and the appropriate governmental agency which could deal with their problems.
There is some overlap among series. For example, using the broad subject Agriculture, a constituent's letter supporting an agricultural price-support bill would appear under Subject Files. Agriculture. Drafts of that specific bill might be under Legislation. Material on an agricultural cooperative project in the Third District would be in the County Project Files. A constituent's request for exemption from certain federal regulations regarding crop measurement would be under Federal and State Agencies. Agriculture, Department of. For more information summarizing the contents of each category see the introductions at the beginning of each section in the inventory.
The papers reflect many types of public opinion: organized and repetitive pressure mail, professional lobbying activities of national interest groups, letters ranging from semi-literate constituents to well-known local and national leaders. The papers show a definite paper spiral during the 1960s and 1970s with the volume of Henderson's files increasing yearly.
The Henderson Papers illustrate many national trends of the 1960s and 1970s. Henderson's work on the Post Office and Civil Service and the Public Works committees made him instrumental in matters of national importance and brought him correspondence from around the nation. These papers particularly reveal trends in federal employment practices in the 1960s and 1970s. The papers contain much material about the reorganization of the Post Office Department into the Postal Service in 1969-1970. The papers reveal public opinion and legislative trends on such issues as civil rights, the Vietnamese War, the energy crisis of the early 1970s, and the Watergate affair. Henderson illustrates well the position of a conservative southern Democratic congressman voting against all civil rights legislation, opposing extension and raising of the minimum wage, federal aid to education, the War Against Poverty, and foreign aid. He consistently supported the presidents' positions on Vietnam, right-to-Work laws, and agricultural price supports.
The Henderson Papers contain rich information on local interests, affairs, and personalities in the Third District of North Carolina. Henderson vigorously supported local interests in Congress. He vehemently opposed restrictions on tobacco advertising and other anti-tobacco legislation. Henderson's correspondence and campaign material reveal the network of the Democratic political machinery in eastern North Carolina and his relationship with the local power structure.
Specific subjects are discussed in more detail in the inventory.
Contains correspondence, notes, and newspaper clippings concerning Henderson's congressional campaigns, 1960-1974. Henderson concentrated most of his time and attention to the Democratic primary in May of each election year. There is much less material about the November election. The Campaign Files contain many lists of electoral officials, party leaders, and targeted support groups, e.g. teachers, veterans. The papers reveal the rising importance of television in political campaigns of the mid to late 1960s.
The Case Files formed a massive part of Henderson's office files. They consist of correspondence from constituents and Henderson's responses concerning problems and requests of all sorts such as pensions, military transfers, job requests, etc. Since these papers are very routine and not topical in nature, a representative sample has been retained only for the letter C, a large letter which includes a wide range of ethnic groups.
Concerns Henderson's work on the Post Office and Civil Service and Public Works committees and their various subcommittees. Contains correspondence from constituents relating to issues before the committees and much national correspondence from lobbyists and concerned parties. This category also contains much printed material, reports of committee hearings, and notes and documents relating to the formation of specific bills. Committee Files were arranged by committee, subcommittee, then general subjects within the committee.
Contains miscellaneous material about committee matters.
Henderson became chairman of this subcommittee in 1963 . Committee name was changed in 1967 . See below.
In 1969 through 1970 the Post Office Department experienced a major reorganization. First introduced in 1969 as H.R. 4, this reform was finally implemented in 1970 as H.R. 17070. This legislation converted the Post Office Department from a Cabinet-level department to an independent establishment in the executive branch of government. This independence necessitated reorganizing rates so that revenues of the Postal Service as a whole met expenses. The bills provided the framework for collective bargaining by postal employees, and enhanced the pay scale and advancement opportunities. One oversized item is located in oversized box at end of collection.
This series provides a complete record of Henderson's outgoing correspondence from 1968 through 1976. These files are composed of second carbon copies of outgoing mail. The first copy was attached to the correspondent's letter and filed away to its appropriate place. For each year the letters are filed within alphabetical folders such as all surnames beginning with letters Sl-So are in a folder so labeled. Within the folder labeled Sl-So, the letters are arranged not alphabetically but chronologically during the year.
Contains correspondence, notes, newspaper clippings and printed material concerning projects and local affairs in the Third Congressional District. Much of the material relates to projects such as urban renewal, housing developments, anti-poverty programs, water and sewer projects, the construction of recreational facilities, hospitals, and public buildings, etc. Henderson's correspondence with federal agencies, local officials, and interested constituents reflects his position as an intermediary between local interests and federal financing. The County Project Files contain a considerable amount of material from the office of Graham H. Barden. This material is indicated in the inventory by dates prior to 1961.
Includes invitations received by Henderson's office and correspondence and printed material relating to accepted engagements. This material illustrates lobbying efforts of both local and national interest groups, businesses and organizations. These papers also reveal something of Henderson's daily schedule. Materials were left in the arrangement as they were filed by Henderson's office. Accepted invitations were filed by following the date of the engagements. Declined invitations were filed as they crossed Henderson's desk, i.e. at the time when Henderson's staff responded to the invitation.
Contains mainly correspondence reflecting Henderson's role as an intermediary between constituents' problems and appropriate federal and state agencies which could resolve those problems. There is some expression of opinion by constituents over the activities, regulations, and administration of such agencies. These papers are similar to the Case Files in nature. Folder headings for North Carolina departments and agencies are preceded by N.C. Those without this indication are federal agencies. Each agency is listed alphabetically even if it is part of a larger department or agency. State and federal agencies are filed separately.
The following folders deal with Henderson's efforts as an intermediary between local petroleum dealers and federal energy authorities in the allocation of gas during the shortage.
Contains copies and drafts of specific bills, informative material about the bills, committee reports and statements, and Henderson's notes on such specific pieces of legislation. For public opinion on bills, see Subject Files. This category is not a complete file of every bill passing through Congress during Henderson's years; much of this legislation reflects Henderson's committee memberships and bills of local interest. The papers are arranged by Congress and session and specific bill number. A comprehensive listing of the title and number of each bill in this category is located at the beginning of the first box of Legislation files.
Contains general information about the service academies and guidelines for congressmen in their appointment of candidates for openings at the academies. Application materials and academic records of Third District appointees have been removed from this collection and destroyed. The Buckley Amendment of 1967 to the Priacy Act prohibits the use of such materials without the individual's written consent.
Henderson's office sent weekly newsletters to constituents which dealt with national affairs, current legislation, and Henderson's policies and views. Frequent topics included civil rights, Vietnam, and foreign aid. The news releases were bulletins sent to newspapers and radio and television stations. This series also contains letters from constituents responding to the newsletters.
Contains mostly clippings of publicity Henderson received in newspapers in the Third Congressional District.
Contains correspondence and notes concerning the building of new post office facilities and consolidation of some local post offices in the Third District. Also contains much material about the appointment of personnel. Files for local post offices were retained only for Morehead City and county seats.
Contains copies of speeches given by Henderson, also correspondence, notes, and background material pertaining to the speeches and speaking engagements. Most speeches were given in the Third District at schools, colleges, rallies, civic clubs, dedications of public facilities, etc. Included also are some speeches made by Henderson in the House of Representatives (see also Subject Files. Congressional Record Remarks) and around the country. Speeches concerned national affairs, especially Vietnam and civil rights, and local projects and concerns. The speeches are arranged chronologically.
The largest and most diverse category in the Henderson Papers, the Subject Files contain correspondence and printed material concerning a wide range of subjects and legislative items. They include much public opinion on current legislation arranged both under the name of the issue itself (e.g. Gun Control) and under the name of the standing committee through which the legislation passed (e.g. Judiciary). There is similar material under Gun Control and Judiciary so both subject and committee listing should be checked. There is also much material on general subjects and administrative matters.
Notations have been made about the contents of some files. These notations are designed as an aid, not as a complete list of contents.
Major issues in entire subject include: 1961: Omnibus Farm Bill; 1962: Food and Agriculture Act; 1963: Mexican Farm Labor Bill; 1965: Omnibus Farm Bill (especially cotton proposals); 1966: legislation to establish separate banks for loans to rural electric cooperatives; 1969: Agricultural Marketing and Bargaining Act, Agricultural Appropriations Bill; 1970: Family Nutrition Act (food stamp reform); 1971: Farm Credit Act, National Agricultural Marketing and Bargaining Act; 1972: legislation to deny food stamps to strikers; 1973: food stamps for strikers, budget reductions in Soil Conservation and Rural Environment programs; 1975: Food Stamp Reform Act; see also Federal and State Agencies. Agriculture, Department of.
This category includes: 1971: educational appropriations; 1972: Emergency School Assistance Act, food stamps for strikers; 1973: school lunch programs, bombing of Cambodia, aid to North Vietnam; 1974: Emergency School Assistance Act; 1975: override of presidential veto of education appropriations.
This category includes: 1963: Military Pay Bill; 1969: Recomputation Bill; 1971: Nedzi-Whalen Amendment to set a withdrawal date for U.S. involvement in Vietnam, Draft Law Reform Bill; 1973: amnesty.
1961: financing of home loans and public housing projects; 1968: Riot Insurance bills, Omnibus Housing Bill, Federal Savings Institutions Act; 1969: One-Bank Holding Bill; 1973-1974: wage and price controls; 1975: financial crisis of New York City, Housing Bill.
Concerns controversy over purchase of land by the Air Force to be used for a bombing range and the possible effects on wildlife and stock production
1963-1964: Kennedy- Johnson administrations' civil rights proposals; 1968: Poor People's March on Washington, assassination of Martin Luther King; 1969-1972: busing to achieve school integration; see also Poor People's March on Washington, Busing, School Crisis, Segregation.
Concerns controversy between the U.S. Department of Defense and local residents over the implementation of the Gesell Report. The Report called for integrated facilities for use of servicemen in communities adjacent to military complexes. If compliance to this request did not occur, the report directed military officials to declare the local communities off-limits to base personnel thus disrupting local economies.
In 1968 many merchants and businessmen in Goldsboro, N.C., received solicitations for classified advertising under the guise of renewing yellow page advertisements. Henderson asked that these be sent to him for use in governmental action against the solicitors.
Correspondence from constituents requesting deferment or reclassification. See also Federal and State Agencies. Selective Service System.
1961: minimum wage legislation, Presidential Reorganization Plan No. 5 (to expedite decision making in cases coming before the National Labor Review Board); 1962: legislation concerning unemployment compensation, equal pay for equal work, and federal aid to education; 1963: Vocational Education Act, legislation to include fringe benefits in wage predeterminations issued under the Davis-Bacon Act of 1931 ; 1964: Economic Opportunity Act, minimum wage and overtime legislation, aid to education in areas of English and industrial education; 1965-1966: Fair Labor Standard Act amendments (to extend the minimum wage to more classes of workers); 1966-1967: Common Situs Picketing Bill; 1968: Occupational Safety and Health Act, Arts and Humanities Bill, agricultural unionization legislation; 1969: legislation extending the Economic Opportunity Act, student loans; 1970: Sikes-Steiger Occupational Health and Safety Bill; 1970-1971: Equal Employment Opportunity Enforcement Act; 1971: National Right to Work Law; 1972: termination of Emergency School Assistance Program, higher education legislation, minimum wage; 1973: Labor-Management Bill (giving federal employees the right to strike), school lunch programs, Vocational Rehabilitation Bill; 1974: Emergency School Aid Act, Rehabilitation Act Amendment, Career Opportunities Program, minimum wage for domestic employees; 1975: minimum wage, common situs picketing, cutbacks in aid to education, HEW regulations involving equal distribution of athletic scholarships between males and females; see also Federal Aid to Education, Public Law 874, Minimum Wage.
Concerns controversial proposal to repeal section 146 of the Taft-Hartley Act, authorizing states to enact right to work laws.
1961-1972: foreign aid; 1975: Kissinger's Mid-East negotiations, Greek-Turkish war over Cyprus, military aid to South Vietnam
1974: federal land use legislation
1961-1962: legislation restricting railway freight rates; 1963: legislation to reduce compulsory minimum rates for the trucking industry; 1969: Railroad Retirement amendments, pay television; 1970: Political Broadcast Bill; 1971: legislation to prohibit the broadcasting of advertisements for alcoholic beverages, citation of CBS and its president Frank Stanton for contempt of Congress after failing to comply with a subpoena issued by the Subcommittee on Investigations, railway regulation reform, funding for the Supersonic Jet; 1972: Airport Development Acceleration Act, legislation to prohibit the use of the telephone in the collection of debts; 1973: Amendment to the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to regulate the sale of vitamins and mineral substances; 1974: Older Americans Act, no fault automobile insurance; 1975: sale of vitamins and food supplements
1963-1975: legislation to restore prayer and Bible reading in the public schools, gun control; 1965: Voting Act (authorizing federal examiners to register qualified voters and suspend devices such as literacy tests); 1966: Fair Housing Provision of the Civil Rights Act; 1967: Monday Holiday Bill; 1968: Open Housing Bill; 1968-1971: legislation to lower the voting age to 18; 1970: TIAA-CREF Retirement Program; 1970-1971: Equal Rights Amendment; 1971: busing; 1973-1974: abortion legislation; 1974: confirmation of Nelson Rockefeller as Vice President; see also Equal Rights Amendment, Gun Control, Abortion
Contains lists of various political, social or occupational groups in the Third District eg. teachers, veterans club members, young Democrats
Contains ballots sent by members of this organization expressing their opinion on current legislation.
Results and analyses of a monthly poll of public opinion in North Carolina on current issues conducted by W. H. Long Marketing, Inc. of Greensboro.
Concerns Henderson's vote against President Kennedy's proposal to establish a Department of Urban Affairs and Housing
1961: Concerns controversial resolution sponsored by House Speaker Sam Rayburn to increase the membership of the Rules Committee
Contains agenda of N.C. delegation meeting regarding school integration, and a collection of bills and resolutions from 1969-1970 dealing with schools and civil rights.
Concerns requests for military transfer from war zones on the basis that one's brother was killed in combat.
1970: reflects military incursions into Cambodia and Laos, student march on Washington, Kent State incident; 1970-1971: legislation to withdraw U.S. troops from Southeast Asia; 1971: court martial of William Calley; 1972: prisoners of war, bombing of North Vietnam; 1973: bombing of Cambodia, Paris Peace Settlement and proposed economic aid to North Vietnam; 1974-1975: missing-in-action personnel; 1975: Mayaguez incident, Vietnamese refugees, continuing aid to South Vietnam; see also Armed Services, Sole-Surviving Son, Prisoners of War Information, Draftees; for material before 1970 see Vietnam
1965: Acreage-Poundage Program; 1969: controversy over Federal Trade Commission regulations requiring radio and TV stations to provide free time for anti-smoking advertisements and to prohibit the advertising of cigarettes on radio and TV
1965-1966: legislation to federalize the unemployment compensation program; 1967: Social Security legislation; 1968: proposed reductions in non-military spending; 1970: tax reform, Social Security; 1971: welfare reform, national health care system, revenue sharing, Social Security; 1972: Tax Policy Review Bill, federal assistance to private schools; 1973: Pension Reform Bill, Trade Reform Act; 1974: tax exemption for small savings accounts, revenue sharing; 1975: tax reform, Roll-Over Pension Plan (ERISA); see also Social Security, Welfare, Welfare Reform
In 1964 journalists charged that several Southern congressmen--particularly the North Carolina delegation--made the votes for the president's economic opportunity program contingent on the expulsion of Adam Yarmolinski from the administration of the program. These congressmen reportedly suspected Yarmolinski, a Jewish liberal of Russian descent, of subversion.
The bulk of the papers relate to Muriel Henderson's personal and family history (for the Woods and Henderson families). She lived with her husband Lawrence (Larry) Henderson in Angola doing missionary work from 1947 to 1969. The collection includes many materials from this time (including journals and letters), and she kept in touch with people from Angola throughout the remainder of her life. The collection also includes many materials documenting her and her family's life in the early 20th century in the Pacific Northwest (mostly in or around Tacoma, Washington), including photographs, diaries, children's drawings and letters, school report cards, diplomas, letters, recollections (many typed) from family members, and ledgers of household expenses.
The bulk of the papers relate to her personal and family history (for the Woods and Henderson families). She lived with her husband Lawrence (Larry) Henderson in Angola doing missionary work from 1947 to 1969; the collection includes many materials from this time (including journals and letters), and she kept in touch with people from Angola throughout the remainder of her life. The collection also includes many materials documenting her and her family's life in the early 20th century in the Pacific Northwest (mostly in or around Tacoma, Washington), including photographs, diaries, children's drawings and letters, school report cards, diplomas, letters, recollections (many typed) from family members, and ledgers of household expenses.
The forty color inkjet photographs in this collection were taken by Lauren Henkin in May 2015 in and around Hale County, Alabama, part of the Alabama and Mississippi "Black Belt." The prints (17x22 inches) form part of a body of work titled "What's Lost is Found." Subjects include rural inhabitants, white and black; house interiors; church exteriors and interiors; and rural and wooded landscapes. Many of the images contain religious symbols and objects such as crosses. As part of the photographer's intent to capture the spirituality she perceived in the place and its people, captions for each image are taken from biblical verses. Collection includes five sheets, also 17x22 inches, with detailed captions and locations for each image.
The Black Belt region is noted for its black topsoil, cotton plantations, the legacy of slavery, civil rights history, and photographic history: Walker Evans, Gordon Parks, and William Christenberry both produced some of their most well-known work in these same places.
From the artist's statement: "It wasn't a place that should be simplified by an imposed narrative. The people I met had a request, 'Please, no more photos of poor kids barefoot on a front porch.' I wanted to show the complexity of a place that could in one moment take the viewer into the woods, to the home of a man that lives with his dogs in the poorest of conditions to the grounds of a mansion covered in soft southern light, to the interior of a home populated with Andrew Wyeth reproductions depicting wind and billowing curtains. I wanted to avoid stereotypical perspectives on the racial and socioeconomic divides, and instead, focus on the interconnectedness between the landscape, the flesh, and the spiritual."
Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
Five paper sheets measuring 17x22 inches, each with eight color thumbnail images of each photograph, accompanied by detailed contextual captions and image locations. Also includes two title pages, also 17x22 inches.
This collection consists of two letters, two manuscript articles paying tribute to Jay B. Hubbell and Ernest Erwin Leisy, reprints of Herron's articles, and clippings and reports pertaining to Southern Methodist University. A copy of the SOUTHWEST REVIEW, Spring 1979, which contains an obituary of Jay B. Hubbell, and a copy of "The Academic Writings of Ima Honaker Herron: A Checklist" by Eddie Gay Cone were added to the collection in 1986.
Collection includes business, personal, and legal correspondence of Edward B. Hicks (died 1858), lawyer and planter of Lawrenceville, Brunswick County, Virginia, and of his son, David S. Hicks, lawyer, planter, and land agent. Papers of Edward B. Hicks include jockey club dues, records connected with his duties as sheriff in 1821 and possibly later, and with Hicks' position as superintendent of schools in Brunswick County in 1847.
Included also is an extensive series of letters and papers relating to the operation, in partnership with John W. Paup, of Spring Hill plantation at Red River, Arkansas, in 1837 and later. An early letter, 1840, describes the deaths ("losses") of enslaved persons at the plantation, and the building of better quarters. Letters also show that Hicks engaged in selling enslaved persons in New Orleans during 1852. Other interesting letters are from Lewis Taylor on the War of 1812 and another, in 1817, relative to disturbances at Princeton College, Princeton, New Jersey, caused by refusal of professors to accept state bank notes.
Centering around David S. Hicks, the papers dated after 1858 are largely legal documents, notes, and correspondence concerned with his law practice and the administration of the estate of Edward R. Hicks. The most continuous series among these legal papers is a set of letters from Leigh R. Page, a Richmond attorney. Papers also pertain to the efforts of Hicks and one Turnbull to sell lands in Brunswick County to Northerners.
Included also are records of Hicks's activities as judge of Brunswick County, as dealer in Texas lands, and as an organizer of the Atlantic and Danville Railroad. One letter, June 30, 1866, from D. J. Claiborne, Jr., concerns African American congressmen in the South and his hatred for them amidst fears of a "Negro supremacy." Fifteen letters from General Thomas Ewing are concerned with the Atlantic and Danville Railroad Company.
The volumes, generally mercantile records, seem to have into the collection as a result of Hicks's legal practice and duties as sheriff in Virginia. These are chiefly in the form of account and ledger books.
One letter from November 13, 1840, recently added to the original collection, was written from John Paup, Spring Hill Plantation, Hempstead county, Arkansas, to Edward Brodnax Hicks, his partner in the plantation and resident of Brunswick County, Virginia. His thee-page letter refers to the economics of enslaved labor and buying enslaved persons; illness and the deaths of enslaved persons on the plantation; the cotton crop, insurance, and prices; and the survey of the border between Arkansas and the Republic of Texas.
Much of the correspondence on and after 1858 concerns the estate and death of Edward Hicks and the related activities of his son, David S. Hicks.
These account and ledger books seem to all originate from the Lawrenceville, Virginia area, and were generated by small mercantile businesses such as general stores. The owners of some of the ledgers have not been identified.
An account book from 1864 bears the names Hicks, Jones, and Mallory, and appears to be records of a tanyard.
Two of these daybooks (1821-1828) belonged to Edward Brodnax Hicks.
The collection consists of 10 scrapbooks donated by Dr. Higham to the Duke Manuscripts Department in 1963. Contents include images and press clippings, largely featuring German, British, and U.S. planes from World War II. Also includes one scrapbook with images of ships. All images appear to have been cut out of magazines and newspapers.
The Cornelius Baldwin Hite papers contains report sheets for Cornelius B. Hite, Jr., from several schools in Virginia, 1855-1860; letters from the period of the Civil War, for the most part dealing with the impact of the war on civilians in western Virginia; a large amount of material showing the effect of Reconstruction on Cornelius B. Hite, Jr., and his relatives, including descriptions of economic distress, politics, and the migration of many Virginians to the western United States. There are letters describing social life and community health in Winchester, Virginia, in the 1870s; conditions at Shenandoah Valley Academy, 1868; and a long trip to Texas, 1875-1876. Letters, 1890-1895, are to Elizabeth Augusta (Smith) Hite, mother of Cornelius Baldwin Hite, Jr., from her sisters and grandchildren.
The collection also contains legal papers of the Christman, Fravel, and Branson families from 1797; a 19th century copy of excerpts from a journal kept by Ann Butler (Brayne) Spotswood, 1709-1711; and legal papers and letters of the Gales family, 1824-1865. Miscellaneous items include six volumes of songs, poetry, and scrapbooks; bills and receipts; clippings; printed matter; and an account book, 1838-1841, and a ledger, 1839-1841, of Cornelius Baldwin Hite, Sr.
Collection contains two manuscript pocket diaries, dated 1867 and 1869, and two pocket memoranda books, dated 1854-1855, 1859, and 1863-1865, kept by Annie L. Hobbs, an instructor at the New Hampshire Conference Seminary and Female College (Methodist) in Tilton, Belknap County, New Hampshire and at the Troy Conference Academy in Poultney, Rutland County, Vermont. In the diaries, Hobbs records her travels to and from her schools, evening readings, croquet games, naps, teas, Saturday excursions, her sewing work, occasional written work, receipt of letters and newspapers, Methodist festivals and Sabbath observances, and fluctuations in her health. Hobbs also regularly records her moods and her uncertainty about whether or not to go back for another term. Generally, the diaries document the life of a young female teacher living away from home, her daily routine, her social contacts, and her intellectual pursuits. In the two memoranda books, Hobbs records student names and recitation periods, Lyceum lectures she attended, mathematical equations, and her expenses for 1863 to 1865.
Letter appears on Harper's Bazaar stationery and concerns locating photographers for magazine illustration, editorial and publishing concerns, and a research project to survey ideas of beauty among college-age women. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History. The Clyde Roark Hoey Papers consist of office files created during Hoey's service in the United States Senate from 1944 through April, 1954. Correspondence, typed and printed material, clippings, and pictures provide a chronicle of Hoey's national political career as well as of American affairs during the early post-World War II period.
The Clyde Roark Hoey Papers consist of Hoey's senatorial files accumulated in his offices in Washington, D. C. and Shelby N. C. The papers cover the period from 1943 through April, 1954, but there are few items for 1943. The quantity of material is greater for the years toward the end of Hoey's career. The Hoey Papers are divided into two series: Correspondence and Subjects. For information on the structure of the collection consult the Series Description.
Incoming and outgoing correspondence with related clippings, printed material, and photographs predominates in both series. Constituent mail forms the largest category of correspondence, encompassing several types of letters and varying widely in significance and content. Many letters from constituents urge Hoey to support or oppose particular legislation, such as universal military training, grain exports to India, or tax measures. They range from the mass-produced form letter to the more detailed and analytical arguments of prominent businessmen, educators, and politicians in North Carolina. Other constituent mail relates to North Carolina projects and affairs such as power dams, defense plants, and appropriations to local interest groups. Still other constituent mail consists of requests for Hoey's assistance in obtaining employment or promotions, changing military status, obtaining visas, and similar personal matters, Routine correspondence involves requests for publications, general letters of commendation, or publicity about individual constituents
Correspondence from all areas of the country concerns legislation or provides comment on world or domestic affairs in the postwar period. Colleagues in the Senate and members of the North Carolina congressional delegation are represented in the correspondence, but frequently they write only letters of transmittal or send personal greetings. A few letters involve the Hoey family. Most of these are exchanged between Senator Hoey and his son-in-law, Dan M, Paul. For some years personal and family papers are filed with H correspondence. For more information on individuals who corresponded with Hoey, consult the Partial List of Correspondents for 1949 in the Series Description.
The main part of the Subject Series is an alphabetical file containing correspondence and printed material about national and state affairs. Most of this correspondence is also constituent or pressure mail. Specific subjects in the Series are described in more detail in the Container listing. Speeches and miscellaneous items are included in the Subject Series.
Chiefly soil conservation
Potatoes
Salaries
Applications for loans to finance generating plants
Capper farm bill (agricultural marketing); Commodity Credit Corporation; report on grain storage, Camp Crowder, Mo.
Proposals to establish academy in Charlotte and Kitty Hawk, N. C.
See also Hawaii Statehood, 1954
Letters of recommendation or support from Hoey or constituents for various individuals as follows:
Correspondence concerning an assortment of appropriation requests, such as vocational education, public health, agricultural programs, etc. See also Budget and Power Dams, Appropriations.
Correspondence to and from individuals in the Army seeking changes of status, benefits, promotions, etc. A sample of surnames beginning with the letter C has been retained.
Concerns efforts to build a guided missile plant
North Carolina response to an anti-trust suit against A and P.
Black hospital in Statesville, N. C.
Largely constituent response to this amendment concerning treaties and limiting of executive agreements.
Various issues related to Buggs Island and Phillpot Dam, Includes items on archaeological excavation which would be affected by flooding; Roanoke River Flood Control Commission; requests for power transmission lines involving Duke Power Co., Carolina Power and Light, and the Southeastern Power Administration.
Cases heard before the Board; material on airports in Winston-Salem, Lumberton, Greensboro, etc.
Dispute over alleged fraud in New Mexico Senatorial election
Material on specific bills, general attitudes, and black concerns; conflict over the seating of Bilbo (1946); Fair Employment Practices Commission and Truman civil rights proposals; anti-lynching, anti-poll tax legislation; Meharry College; letters to and from individuals supporting or opposing segregation; numerous other topics, See also North Carolina
Proposed appointment of Gen. Clark as Ambassador to the Vatican.
Coal shortage and strikes
Milk contracts with the Army
Largely opinion mail on Communist Control Act, See also Socialist Trend
Controversy concerning Atomic Energy Commission scholarship awarded to student at University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, later revealed to be a Communist sympathizer.
Shortage; Patterson Bill (H. R. 2404)
Stabilization of cotton market (1946); quotas, importation of Egyptian cotton, Japanese textiles competing with U. S. in the Belgian Congo (1947-1948); the Marshall Plan and loans (1948); cotton and peanut acreage bills (1950); ceiling price on raw cotton (1951); miscellaneous concerns of cotton industry.
Relaxation of immigration laws; Displaced Persons Commission; legislation
Mainly related to Federal aid to education
Applications for radio station licenses; hearings; telephone and television applications, etc.
Correction of administrative loopholes and delays; printed preliminary report
Hearings and decisions; orders; natural gas applications; etc.
Consumer credit for automobile purchases
Fertilizer supplies; efforts to get increased nitrogen supply
Hoey's opposition to statehood because of racial differences and more support for civil rights measures in Congress
See also Reorganization of Government
Includes material on low-cost public housing; National Cooperative Housing Act; Public Housing and Slum Clearance Bill; Real estate credit
Scant material on McCarran-Walter Act, See also Visas
Assorted items concerning American Indians, such as the selling of Indian land to the Methodist Church, the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians, Cherokee Historical Association.
Letters opposing involvement of troops.
Typescripts and material dealing with principles and historical development of the Federal government, etc.
Memoranda concerning types of cases which F. B. I. clears with Department of Justice
Various bills
North Carolina educator appointed by War Department for special project, Labor organizations disapproved of Brimley and there was much public response
Seizure of mills and action by Wage Stabilization Board. Letters by Hoey discuss the position of Southern Democrats on this issue.
S. 2504 designed to increase unemployment compensation benefits by Federal supplement to state unemployment.
Includes surplus labor issue and Hoey's reaction to John F. Kennedy's proposal
Plans to reactivate the base
A sample of names beginning with the letter C has been retained for this correspondence concerning individual problems.
Mainly promotional photographs of the campus and dormitories
Scant material on relations between independent and major oil companies investigated by a special committee on American small business. Also restrictions on importation of foreign oil.
Blue Ridge Parkway and Smokey Mountains National Park expansion and development; Cherokee Reservation; appropriations for Currituck Beach Lighthouse and Wright Memorial; merger of Nantahala National Forest and Pisgah; television transmission station at Mt. Pisgah; and other topics.
General postal concerns; postal legislation
Price control legislation and its effect on the textile industry; War Production Control Bill; Defense Production Act
Correspondence with prisoners or their families relating to pardons, parole, legal situations, etc.
Amendments to the Railroad Retirement and Unemployment Insurance Act
Reactivation of airport by Air Force; Weather Bureau installation
Various aspects of reorganization; proposals to place U. S. Employment Service under Dept, of Labor; implementation of Hoover Commission suggestions; exemption of various agencies, etc.
Includes Internal Revenue Service and Health, Education, and Welfare provisions
Efforts to establish R.O.T.C. units at schools such as Appalachian State, Atlantic Christian, Catawba, Elan and Gardner-Webb colleges
Emergency bills, flood control, North Carolina projects, reports
National Rivers and Harbors Congress (1950); North Carolina projects such as Cumberland River, Oregon Inlet, Neuse Valley development, Inland Waterway, dredging at Sealevel, etc.
Concerns retail sales
Definitions, exemptions, and extensions of original act.
Chiefly form mimeograph letters on the Mundt Subversive Activities Bill. See also Communism
Loans; cotton, tobacco, and commodity supplies
Exemption for jewelry excise co-operatives Tax, 1948
Includes Dunn, West Jefferson, Rocky Mount, and Asheville markets and other topics.
Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act (1945-49); Fair Trade Bill; extensions of Reciprocal Trade
Amending U. N. charter; inspection teams.
Appointment of Ambassador. See also Clark, Mark.
C sample of individual cases. Arranged alphabetically by veteran's name.
Farm training, veterans bonus, other programs
Loans, various bills
Correspondence concerning visas, passports, and travel or immigration procedures for individuals.
Hospital and recreational equipment; Butner Hospital.
Cheating scandal.
Includes the following speeches:
Several major categories:
--topics of national concern (cigarette taxes, Southeastern Power Administration appropriations, U. N. Charter amendments, Housing Bill, Rent Control, communists in the State Dept., British loans, etc.)
--general topics (Importance of Congress, the need for unity, North Carolina young people, temperance, the obligation to vote
--reviews of books
--announcements or commemoration of deaths of colleagues
--religious reflections (the Bible, Sunday School, Faith, etc.)
The Rachel Hoff papers consist primarily of original copies of her zine Intelligence Lull. The collection also includes writings, drawings and correspondence related to the publication.
The collection documents Holden's career as a journalist and politician, including his shift in party allegiance from Democrat to Republican during the Civil War. He served as the 28th and 30th governor of North Carolina.
Pre-Civil War letters deal mainly with personal and legal matters and with the Democratic convention in Charleston, S.C., 1860, and presidential election of 1860. Post-war materials concern the history of journalism in North Carolina; Holden's appointment by Andrew Johnson as provisional governor of North Carolina in 1865; his election as governor in 1868; Reconstruction policies; Ku Klux Klan activity in the state; the Kirk-Holden War; the "Ferrell Matter," a debt case in which Holden was the guarantor; Holden's impeachment as governor in 1870; his conviction by the N.C. Senate in 1871; his appointment as postmaster by Ulysses S. Grant in 1873; and life and politics in Washington during the period of Radical control. Of note are depositions and other evidence gathered by Holden and his supporters of various members of the Ku Klux Klan, documenting their membership and activities during 1869-1870.
The collection also includes Holden family papers, including scrapbooks and account books kept by Holden's wife and daughters; Holden's memoirs, recorded by his daughter Mary Holden Sherwood and edited by W.K. Boyd as part of the Trinity College Historical Society; some family photographs and materials related to the Holden homestead in Raleigh, N.C.; writings and poetry by Holden and his son, Joseph Holden; obituaries and clippings about Holden and his legacy; and other assorted personal and financial papers. Though removed from public life, Holden continued to write about public policy and government, sometimes critical of both parties, until his death in 1892.
Re: Holden's Postmaster duties, Raleigh, N.C.
Booklet with printed account of Holden's impeachment from 1870, with annotations from 1891.
Certificate is in two pieces.
The collection consists of four photograph albums collected and assembled by the Hollands during their time in Guatemala, from 1923-1927. The albums include gelatin silver prints in a variety of sizes, ranging from 2x3 inch snapshots to 3.5x12 inch panoramas. The prints themselves are generally in good condition, but the binding on two of the albums needs repair.
The photographs include a wide range of images, from scenery and landscapes of the Guatemala countryside, to personal photographs of the Holland family and their friends. Album 1, a Kodak 7x12 black album, appears to have been created by Corabelle Anderson, Philip Holland's wife and Pito and Isabelle's mother. The creator has included captions for nearly every photograph, which have been written in ink on the edge of the print. The majority of images in this album are snapshots, highlighting the activities of the family, such as their travels through Guatemala, their home and the American Legation building in Guatemala City, family photographs of the children (including images of Isabelle and Pito playing and posing for the camera), and photographs of Holland's colleagues. Some of the first photographs in the album are of President Harding's memorial service at the American Legation in Guatemala. The album also includes images of Antigua, including its markets, the Agua volcano, and Mayan ruins; coffee farms and fences of the United Fruit Company; church processions and parades in Guatemala City; the American Consulate; San Jose, which appears to have been the family's port when travelling to and from Guatemala; and photographs of the family hunting and hiking in the Guatemala countryside.
Album 2, a brown album labelled Photographs, includes very few captions and has no indication of who created it. It includes additional family photographs, but seems to contain more photographs of Guatemalan people, especially street scenes with Guatemalans in native dress; markets with Guatemalan women selling food or products; local musicians with instruments; and local children. This album also includes images of Guatemala City's Columbus memorial; Tecpan's palace, markets, churches, and people; and more photographs from San Jose, Antigua, and the Agua volcano. There are some duplicates between Albums 1 and 2. Of note are the various means of transportation captured in this album, including automobiles being pulled up a mountain by hand, streetcars in Guatemala City, and mules or horses for traversing rural areas.
Album 3 appears to have been created by Dr. and Mrs. Anderson from 1923-1924. It includes ink captions on the prints, which again are snapshot-sized, as well as a few pages of scrapbook materials (such as cards, clippings, and tickets) in the album's back pages. There are very few images of the Holland family. Instead, a large proportion of the photographs are of travels throughout Guatemala. Scenes include Guatemala City, Antigua, Lake Atitlan, Panajachel, Tecpan, Escuintla, Guatemala City, Solola, Chichicastenango, Patulul, and Quirigua. It also includes images from San Jose's beaches and piers, where the couple seems to have caught a United Fruit Company pacific steamer. Along with landscapes, local architecture and buildings, and street scenes from throughout the country, this album has a few photographs highlighting United Fruit Company's farms, Mayan ruins, volcanoes, Guatemalans in native dress, the firing and selling of pottery, and local markets.
Album 4 consists largely of panoramic photographs, each stamped on the verso or on the mount by Boston photographer Henry J. Thayer. His relationship to the Holland family is not clear, but the album cover is stamped P.H. Most of Thayer's panoramics are titled, in the negative, directly on the print. The images include Guatemala's West Coast, featuring railroad stations, Mayan ruins near Quirigua, and native huts. Other photographs are from Antigua, including both street scenes and skylines with the Plaza Central, Santa Carolina church, and the Fuego and Agua volcanoes. Guatemala City is another featured city: Thayer's panoramas include its Mapa en Relieve (a scale model public monument of Guatemala's geography, opened in 1904), city vistas and plazas, and a bullfight. Other areas of the country represented in the images include Tecpan, Solola, Chichicastenango, Lake Atitlan and its surrounding areas, the Quetzaltenango Valley and its local markets and plaza, and the Zacapa desert, among others. Thayer also took occasional pictures highlighting Guatemalan history, with images of the Quetzaltenango monument to Ticam Uman (the last king of the Quiche), the Bridge of the Slaves near Santa Rosa, and Indian mounds near Tecpan. This album had several inserted pages and images, which have been foldered separately to protect the original album. Most of the loose pages are additional panoramas by Thayer, but there are also some black-and-white 6.5x8.5 undated prints taken by the U.S. Army Air Service. These images were clearly taken from the air, and show Guatemalan cities and villages.
The papers of Frederick William Mackey Holliday contain letters from Holliday while a student at Yale University, 1846; papers relating to the 33rd Virginia Regiment, which Holliday raised and commanded during the Civil War; letters concerning the International Exhibition held in Philadelphia in 1876, at which Holliday served as a commissioner from Virginia; and letters and papers relating to Holliday's election as governor of Virginia in 1877 and letters from his term as governor, for the most part dealing with routine political and administrative matters.
Printed material includes The Struggles, Perils and Hopes of the Negroes in the United States, a pamphlet by Reverend C. Clifton Penick, 1893; a typed copy of The Virginia Debt in Politics, by William L. Royall, published in 1897 as History of the Virginia debt controversy; and broadsides, campaign literature, and other political material.
Volumes include ten scrapbooks of clippings; letter books of Holliday as a student at Yale and the University of Virginia, 1845-1849, and as governor of Virginia, 1878-1879; and four record books concerning Holliday's legal work.
Record of charges for legal work.
Record of charges for legal work.
Record of legal work.
New Haven, Connecticut.
New Haven, Connecticut and Virginia.
Richmond, Virginia.
Contains clippings, addresses, bills, etc. Explanatory notes are in Holliday's handwritting.
Record of legal work.
Record of charges for legal work.
Collection includes correspondence, notes, diaries, and literary works of George Frederick Holmes (1820-1897), scholar, educator, author; and correspondence of William Howard Perkinson (1861-1898), educator and son-in-law of Holmes; and of Joseph Henry Herndon Holmes (1794-1831) and Mary Ann (Pemberton) Holmes (1790-ca. 1862), father and mother of George Frederick Holmes. The papers of Joseph Henry Herndon Holmes, barrister of Demerara, British Guiana, consist of treatises on contracts and exchange of money, fragments of poetry, poems, his will, and pictures. Among the papers of Mary Ann (Pemberton) Holmes are the following: a brief record of her life in Demerara with interesting comments on the people and the country, family history and genealogy, personal letters, epitaphs, and verses of Stephen Pemberton written while attending Oriel College, Oxford, England.
The papers of George Frederick Holmes are chiefly concerned with family affairs, including financial troubles, and accounts from his wife, Eliza Lavalette (Floyd) Holmes, of the unsatisfactory performance of Negro servants; accounts of Holmes's connection with educational institutions, notably Richmond College, Virginia, College of William and Mary, Williamsburg, Virginia, the University of Mississippi, Oxford, and the University of Virginia, Charlottesville. The correspondence throws considerable light on dissensions in the Board of Visitors at the College of William and Mary in 1848. The collection consists of Holmes's correspondence with leading literary figures and educators of the South; notes and works on almost every phase of philology, grammar, history, political science, and economics; notes for lectures; articles and manuscripts for books and periodicals; lists of students; examination questions; and diaries which cover a great part of the period from 1856 to 1891. The collection includes a letter book, 1834-1874, containing contemporary copies of letters, in Holmes's hand, of many notable figures, among whom are E. E. Bellinger, Auguste Comte, J. D. B. DeBow, Thos. R. Dew, R. T. W. Duke, Wm. H. Ellet, Geo. Fitzhugh, John B. Floyd, Wm. Harper, R. R. Howison, R. W. Hughes, D. F. Jamison, Wm. S. Lewis, Francis Lieber, P. N. Lynch, Jno. McClintock, Cornelius Mathews, W. E. Martin, B. B. Minor, W. G. Minor, T. V. Moore, J. D. Munford, Edw. Nicholson, Wm. Ogilby, Cotesworth Pinckney, J. D. Pope, Wm. C. Preston, Jas. Ryder, W. G. Simms, R. W. Singleton, A. G. Summer, Jno. R. Thompson, Jas. H. Thornwell, Samuel Tyler, and D. K. Whitaker.
Papers of William Howard Perkinson are confined to a few records of his work as professor of Latin and Greek at the University of Virginia, a few business papers, and records of the administration of the estate of George Frederick Holmes. Some of Perkinson's letters to his wife give glimpses of the management of the university and of his work. M. Schele De Vere and W. Gordon McCabe, as well as a number of scholars in England, were among Perkinson's correspondents.
[Description taken from the Guide to the Cataloged Collections in the Manuscript Department of the William R. Perkins Library, Duke University (1980)]
Box 7 also contains notes and correspondence by Mary Anne Holmes, Joseph H. H. Holmes, and Stephen Pemberton.
Collection consists of the exhibit detail book, probably produced in the 1950s or 1960s, containing text and illustrations for the exhibit "Ostetrical Forceps Delivery," curated by Dr. Frederick H. Falls and illustrated by Charlotte S. Holt, as well as six exhibition panels.
The exhibit consisted of five sections: Anesthesia; Technique; Management of Newborn; Pathology; and History and Indications. Within each section, Falls and Holt presented examples of situations leading to a forceps birth, correct technique for the use of forceps, the issues arising from this method, and the treatment of the newborn after this procedure. The five larger exhibition panels feature hand-drawn color illustrations, text, and photographs of models, and measure 39.5 x 26.5 inches; the smaller title panel measures 11 3/8 x 17 1/2 inches.
Acquired as part of the History of Medicine Collections at Duke University.
Series consists of an exhibit detail album, probably produced in the 1950s or 1960s, containing text and illustrations for the exhibit "Ostetrical Forceps Delivery," by Dr. Frederick H. Falls and illustrated by Charlotte S. Holt.
Collection consist of historical medical instruments and artifacts, art objects, realia, and other three-dimensional objects, primarily originating from Europe and the United States, but including some artifacts from China and Japan. Ranging in age from the late 16th to the late 20th centuries, objects include physician's medical kits and pharmaceutical items (often in the original cases and bags); clinical equipment used in amputation, obstetrics, opthalmology, surgery, neurology, early electrical therapies, and in research and diagnostic settings; instructional objects such as anatomical models; and art objects such as apothecary jars, a bas-relief memento mori, a marble skull, and fetish figures.
There are many models of microscopes, from a small monocular "flea glass" to mid-20th century models. Other early medical instruments and supplies include amputation saws, bleeding bowls, cupping glasses, hypodermic needles, infant and invalid feeders, lancets, opthalmoscopes, pill rollers, stethoscopes, syringes, and other items. A more unusual item - and one of the larger pieces - is an adult walker made of wood, dating perhaps to the 19th century or earlier.
Of interest is a large collection of early anatomical and diagnostic human models from China and continental Europe, in the shape of small, intricately detailed manikins, most crafted from ivory. Some feature removable anatomical parts, and female figures often include a removable fetus. There is also a model illustrating acupuncture points. Other instructional artifacts include glass slides used in medical school lectures.
Most of these objects were photographed by Medical Library staff; at a later time, digital images of almost all of the objects in the collection were added to the online Duke University Historical Images in Medicine database, linked in this collection guide and now available through the Duke Digital Repository. Many of the original black-and-white photographic prints are filed in the History of Medicine Picture File collection. See the Related Materials section in this collection guide for links to these resources.
Acquired as part of the History of Medicine Collections at Duke University.
Artifacts donated by W. Banks Anderson, Jr., MD.
Zeiss compound monocular microscope with mechanical stage. Signed: Carl Zeiss, Jena, No. 41871. Brass and black laquer on a cast-iron base. This microscope has the jug handle design which was introduced in 1898. Basically a hand grip was added to the limb of the microscope; at its best, the handle was integrated and sleek. The style did not last long and ended before 1920. White lettering on the cast-iron horseshoe base indicates the microscope once belonged to Dr. Frederic Moir Hanes, chair of the Department of Medicine.
Dr. Carl Zeiss founded a business in Jena, Germany and began making microscopes in 1847. His was the dominant optical firm in the world from the beginning of the 20th century through 1945 when it was seperated into two firms following partition of Germany after World War II. Many firms have been associated with the Zeiss firm and have produced Zeiss products under license or as partners. Bausch & Lomb, which originated in Rochester, NY in 1853, was among those.
11 pairs of eyeglasses and spectacles: 1. "Harlequin" style with rhinestone frames. 1950s. 2. Spectacles, wire-rimmed 3. Spectacles, wire-rimmed 4. Pince-nez spectacles; round glass, silver frame. With case. 5. Bifocals; oval glass, gold frames. With case. 6. Pince-nez spectacles; oval glass, no frame, chain missing. With case. 7. Reverse half glasses (distance only); silver frame. With case. 8. Spectacles; round glass, silver frame with incised design. With case. 9. Bifocals; round glass, no frame, silver chain with hook. With case. 10. Pince-nez spectacles; oval glass, no frame, chain missing. With case. 11. Pince-nez spectacles; round glass, gold frame. With case.
Cornealschalen fur Lichtkoagulator. Ten glass lenses in wooden case.
Contact lenses were delivered with Duke Medical Center's first light coagulator (1950s?). Doris Duke donated the money for it. The machine was invented by Gerd Meyer Schwickernath.
Ophthalmology instruments: four ivory handled instruments, marked Tiemann. Two stainless steel handled instruments, marked Germany: KNY-Scheerer. Wooden case with Tiemann label. New York: George Tiemann & Co. Instruments are from several different date ranges. George Tiemann & Co. has supplied surgical instruments since 1826.
Donated by Cathy Angell
Compound binocular microscope. Black case with accessories. Signed: Spencer, Buffalo, USA.
Artifacts donated by Dr. and Mrs. Emil C. Beyer.
Compound monocular. Unsigned. Brass with wooden carrying case. The microscope attaches to a brass fitting on the top of the case which then acts as a base. Accessories included are brass opticals, a bull's-eye condenser, and ivory specimen slides.
In the 18th century there was a demand for microscopes which could be kept in a small space and carried into the field. The "pack-away" microscope reached its heyday between 1790 and 1830. Such instruments were made for the amateur market since no serious microscopist would want to keep dismantling his instrument. The Cary-type microscope came in a limited variety of sizes. This is one of the larger versions.
Wood mortar and pestle. Decorative carved horizontal lines run around the outside of the mortar.
Small flip-top mahogany chest with brass handle and one drawer. Accessories include empty glass bottles, scales and weights.
Philadelphia: John Wyeth & Brother [n.d.] Blue glass bottle with glass cap. Original paper label.
Glass medicine cup in a round wooden case. Cup is marked for dosage: tea, dessert, table.
Staffordshire pottery decorated in blue transfer-printed design.
Medium infant or invalid feeder. Ceramic with gold leaf trim. Multicolored floral design.
Ceramic with gold leaf trim. Multicolored floral design.
Ceramic. Blue floral design.
Made in Pennsylvania: tin, with flip top, handle at right angle to spout.
Pewter. Hinged for portability. The spoons are different sizes for two sizes of dose.
Ruby colored blown glass with etched grape vines.
Ceramic. White on white raised floral design around the mouth of the feeder.
White glazed pottery shaped to resemble a duck.
"Simpli-trol" Portable Model Cambridge Electrocardiograph No. 0-0195503. In wooden case with metal latches; brass label identifies the original owner. Made for Henry A. Rogan, MD by the Cambridge Instrument Co., Inc.
Examples of both blown and molded glasses.
Wood with ivory earpiece.
Fleam has three blades.
Nine-piece post-mortem dissecting set in wooden case by Wood & Son, Manchester, England; includes saw and hammer. Additional ivory handled pieces by Gary and Lawson.
Apparatus for intubation of the larynx in case of diptheria. Gold-plated tubes of various sizes depending on the needs of the child; in velvet-lined wooden box with padded silk lid.
Elliptical metal box with crowned caduceus on lid.
1) Glass vessel with metal sprayer 2) Glass vessel with rubber bulb
Glass eye cup
Elliptical wooden case with printing on the top of lid. Originally contained 40 pills.
Two are made of glass and one of pottery.
Bottles (includes labeled and embossed); patent medicines (in bottles, tins and packages); pharmaceutical measures
Made by Boehm Surgical Instrument Corp., Rochester, N.Y. In damaged shagreen case, lined in green velvet.
Replica of Maw's double-valved earthenware inhaler. London: S. Maw Son & Thompson
Made of pottery by B. E. and Co. Best. Item is damaged.
Used by Bracklo Bros., Apothecaries, 10 Greenwich St., New York
Philadelphia: Charles Lentz & Sons. Includes leather carrying case (straps are broken off); and wooden case with brass fittings.
Contains four empty bottles. Black leather case is damaged.
Contains seven empty bottles in black leather case.
Folding rosewood medicine chest with mother of pearl inlay and silver handle made in England. Some damage to wood & inlay. Includes key. Chest contains large glass stoppered bottles (some with contents), mother of pearl balance, brass weights, graduate, funnel, mortar & pestle, and miscellaneous instruments.
Wooden case with brass fittings, made in England. Damaged: Cover detached. Approximately 18 pieces including two trephines and bone brush.
Wooden box; lid detached. Instructions pasted inside lid. Made for J.M. Grosvenor & Co., Boston, Massachusetts.
New York: Boericke Homeopathic Pharmacy. Wooden box with key, containing 61 glass bottles with labels and marked stoppers.
Rosewood box with key. Metal inlaid disc is missing from lid. Includes 29 glass vials with labels and contents. Humphrey's Specific Homeopathic Remedies" chart pasted inside lid.
Liverpool & Birkenhead: Joseph Marples Homeopathic Chemist. Wood; no key. Contents include 57 glass vials with labels and marked stoppers; three empty vials; six bottles of liquid preparation; one empty bottle. Spatula with wooden handle. Also found in drawer: Nos 8, 37, 40 of Wills's Cigarettes First Aid Series collectible cards.
Wooden roller on metal handle.
Lactometer for milk in wooden tube.
Item is pocket-size; stamped on bottom: U.S.A. M.D. Used to disolve powders and pills into solution for injection.
Ivory handle; in leather case.
Four steel instruments and one ivory handle, in shagreen-covered case with mirror in lid.
Artifacts donated by Daryl Bigner, MD.
Brass and black laquer; signed: Bauch & Lomb Optical Co., Rochester, N.Y., USA. Original wooden case; no accessories are included.
Artifact donated by the estate of Warren Bird.
Morganton, NC: Spake Pharmacy.
Artifact donated by Dr. Ronald Bost.
Mahogany case with two lift-out trays of surgical instruments. The Kny-Scheerer Co., New York. Includes small packet of sutures from George Tiemann & Co. New York. Plate on top is engraved with "Med Dept. U.S.A."
Amputation kit in oak case; includes packet of surgical silk cord from Archibald Turner & Co. Case is damaged.
Artifacts donated by Ewald W. Busse, MD.
Bausch & Lomb ophthalmoscope in box with accessories.
Marked: "Sahli-Adams improved non-fade hemometer. New York: Clay-Adams Co., Inc." Combination hemacytometer and hemometer outfit in box with accessories.
Depicts a physician with patient.
Artifacts donated by Dr. Callaway.
Small metal cupping jar.
Made of metal.
Artifacts donated by Virginia M. Carden.
Originally belonged to Ginger Carden's mother.
Artifacts donated by Bayard Carter, MD.
Slides include lecture text, historical illustrations, and pathology examples. In two wooden slide boxes.
Bayard Carter was the first chair of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at Duke University, 1931-1964.
Artifacts donated by Alphonsus Cobb.
Civil War amputation set in wooden box with brass plate on lid, engraved with initials: BFC
Artifacts donated by Dr. Wilbert C. Davison
Bas-relief sculpture of head of Sir William Osler by Doris Appel (1904-1995). Lynn, Massachusetts: Doris Appel Medical Sculptures
Given after Dr. Davison retired to Roaring Gap, N.C.
From Wyeth Laboratories. Small scale replica on wooden stand.
Artifacts donated by Dr. Thomas Doxiades
Gavel of wood from the plane-tree of Hippocrates on the Island of Cos.
Presented to the University Medical Center by Dr. Thomas Doxiades.
Artifacts donated by Mrs. L.M. Draper.
Collection of 108 medical instruments from the practice of Dr. L.M. Draper. Contents include: Amputation pincers, retractors, syringes, pelvimeter, wooden handle obstetric forceps, wide variety of forceps and specula.
Many examples are unique to the collection.
Artifacts donated by Carl T. Durham.
Pipe has hand-carved bowl. Housed in fitted leather satin-lined case.
Artifact donated by Harold P. Erickson, PhD.
20th century replica of a Leeuwenhoek microscope, mounted in plexiglass box.
Gift of Prof. John W. Everett.
Artifacts donated by Bernard F. Fetter, MD; William J. Fetter, MD.
Pocket hypodermic needle kit. Rounded metal case.
Marked with Providence, RI: Davol Rubber Co., size 4.
Consists of instruments from the respective medical practices of the Drs. Fetter: uterine dilator, square hemometer tube, Eisenstein ecto-endo cervical scraper, hypodermic syringe, glass jars, brass colored hook for excising tumors, metal basin, stethoscope, dressing forceps, obstetrical forceps, cyrtometer, post-nasal forceps, tenaculum forceps, clamp with handle, speculum, diagnostic aesthesiometric, percussor, rubber air bag and metal tube.
Transformer in walnut housing with pistol, cautery tips, and gyn-a-lite. Marked with Elmhurst, NY: National Electric Instrument Co. Model no. 900.
Three diaphragm chestpieces, marked Rutherford, NJ: Becton Dickinson & Co. Housed in two soft pouches.
Rochester, NY: Will Corporation. Housed in original packaging.
Sprague Rappaport type stethoscope. St. Petersburg, FL: BMS Model SR-2 in original box.
Artifacts donated by Wilton G. Fritz, MD.
One forceps, made of stainless steel. Used by Dr. Fritz's father in his medical practice.
Approximately 35 instruments, including forceps, made of stainless steel. Used by Dr. Fritz (Duke, 1944) in his medical practice.
Artifacts donated by Eleanor B. Hall.
Collection of cupping glasses from unknown source, with waxed wicking and cone wick. Cone wick was made by Mrs. Hall in the manner she had seen it used.
Artifacts donated by J. Samuel Hammond.
New York: Kaz Manufacturing Co. Vaporizer with original box, instructions & medication.
American spectacles include: 1. Small oval lens with wire frame. Mid 19th century or early 20th century [Webster County, Georgia ?]; in black case with cleaning cloth 2. Octagonal lens, no frame, gold wire legs. Early 20th century. [Americus, Georgia?] 3. Round lens with gold wire frame, plastic covered legs. Early 20th century [Americus, Georgia?].
Artifacts donated by Ellis Herndon Hudson.
Housed in two wooden boxes: Box 1 - 46 slides, Box 2 - 51 slides. The wooden boxes are marked with the date 1952.
Illustrations for his book, Non-venereal syphilis; a sociological and medical study of bejel. (1958)
Artifacts donated by D. Frank Hinnant.
Asafoetida amulet for child who died in 1917.
Five bottles, some with original contents.
Artifacts donated by The Estate of Charlotte S. Holt.
Plaster bas-relief by Holt. "G35" inscribed on reverse. Holt was a medical illustrator. Originally part of an exhibit she created with Dr. Frederick H. Falls for the Illinois State Department of Public Health.
Obstetrical forceps and model baby heads created by Holt. Three sets of rubber heads with forceps. Salvaged from a damaged display.
Demonstrates fetal fractures of skull and clavicle. Created by Holt from plaster, hand-colored. "#45 OB-Forceps Ex." on reverse of sculpture. Originally part of an exhibit created with Dr. Frederick H. Falls for the Illinois State Department of Public Health.
Drawings are of fetuses in utero and obstetrical techniques, hand-drawn by illustrator Charlotte Holt for an exhibit, likely the same as described in the other entries for the Holt artifacts collection. Accompanied by large exhibit caption cards. No online image.
Artifacts donated by Elizabeth Kellogg.
Inscription reads "Med. Dept. U.S. Army." Made of black cast iron.
Artifacts donated by Henry E. Kolbe.
Silver ring made from surgical sutures.
Mary R. Kolbe, had the ring made from silver sutures used to close her surgical incision. The surgeon was Dr. Joseph Colt Bloodgood of Baltimore.
Artifacts donated by Dr. Wallace W. Lindahl, MD.
Made in England. Consists of a set of glass cups with brass aspirating syringe in velvet-lined mahogany case.
Velcro model. Obstetric forceps, vaginal speculum, dilators, ice box, stethoscope, two pieces of large laboratory glass
Small pharmaceutical kit in leather bag with handle. One of the end the bag has stitching torn loose. Includes glass vials, most with contents intact.
Homeopathic bag. St. Louis: A. S. Aloe & Co. Glass vials with cork stoppers. Contents intact. Leather box with metal fittings - handles missing. Name engraved of silver plate on cover: Dr. E.L. Smith.
Black zippered doctor's bag. Contents include: Taylor's reflex hammer with rubber head & four glass thermometers of different styles.
Small leather medicine case with various medications in one or two cc single use ampules. Part of the contents of doctor's obstetrical bag (Acc # HLINDA0011).
Part of contents of doctor's obstetrical bag (Acc # HLINDA0011).
Part of the contents of doctor's obstetrical bag (Acc # HLINDA0011).
Blunt hook and crochet for obstetrical use. Part of the contents of doctor's obstetrical bag (Acc # HLINDA0011).
Chicago: F.E. Young & Co. Four dilators in box with instructions. Part of the contents of doctor's obstetrical bag (Acc # HLINDA0011).
Leather bag (damaged). Contents include: four empty glass stoppered bottles, blunt hook and crochet, canula, Sims' speculum with duck bill blades, Brinkerhoff anal speculum, rectal dilators, hypodermic kit in leather box, stethoscope and blood pressure cuff. Items have individual records; see above.
Artifacts donated by Caroline B. Long.
Black leather bag containing assorted medical instruments.
Artifacts donated by Robert Machemer, MD.
Marked V. Mueller & Co., USA. Includes handle with eight interchangeable cups.
Used for removal of cataractous lens until the 1960s. Invented in 1917 by Ignacio Barraquer and improved in 1948 by A. E. Bell. The little cup was applied to the surface of the lens, suction was applied, then the cup with the adherent lens pulled out of the eye through a large corneal opening.
Artifacts donated by Philip G. Maples.
Student nurse fabric apron with five pearl stud buttons.
Dr. McCoy was a resident at Watts Hospital in Durham, N.C., and acquired this kit the year the hospital closed (1976). A piece of tape affixed to the lid of the kit appears to have "Dr. B.W. Roberts" written in faded ink. Dr. Roberts was a pediatrician at Watts Hospital in 1938.
Artifacts donated by Prof. J. Horst Meyer, DSC.
Tin styptic case; on the lid is the name of Prof. Dr. Hans Horst Meyer, the grandfather of the donor. Marked with Blutstillende Stryphnonwatte... Wein und Klosterneuberg: Pharmazeutische Industrie AG.
Donated by Wallace E. Meyers.
Metal hot water bottle.
Artifacts donated by North Carolina Museum of Science and Art.
Marked: McKesson pneumothor. Toledo, Ohio: McKesson Appliance Co. Model 450; serial no. 1038. Item is housed in case.
Wooden case - velvet lined. No key.
Used by Dr. William Studwick of Hillsborough. Given on behalf of the NC Museum of Science & Art by Dr. Thomas Krakauer.
Brass handles on each side.
Given on behalf of the NC Museum of Science & Art by Dr. Thomas Krakauer.
Artifact Box 334 contains glassware, Artifact Box 335 contains the wooden stand.
Artifacts donated by Dr. Elbert C. Persons.
Kreuztisch 141 [cross-table] brass microscope attachment. Wetzlar: Ernst Leitz. Item is housed in case.
Artifacts donated by Henry J. Pyle, M.D., Grand Rapids, Michigan
Bag belonged to Henry J. Pyle, M.D., Grand Rapids, Michigan.
Artifacts donated by Snow Roberts.
Scale used for weighing infants, likely produced by the Howe Scale Company. Includes a stand, detachable basin, a notched balancing arm, a hanging pointer, and weights. There are two two-pound weights and two half-pound weights. Dr. Roberts used this scale at Watts Hospital in Durham, where he was a pediatrician.
Artifacts donated by Dr. James H. Semans.
Includes a drawer and accessories. [Horne, Thornthwaite and Wood, London?] This all-brass instrument with a claw-footed base is mounted on a wooden stand which was made to slide into its case. Before storage the body-tube would have to have been detached. One of the accessories is a bull's eye condenser lens attached to an adjustable arm which was intended to be inserted through a pillar, allowing it to stand independently of the microscope.
The original version of this educational microscope was made in 1854 by G. Field of Birmingham.
Round lidded box with abstract floral patterns.
Contains hypodermic needles and stylets. Engraved silver case.
Instruments were used by Dr. Semans in his practice.
Contents: anterior perineal retractor for bulbous urethra; posterior perineal retractor for central ligament; two long Allis clips; three long curved Allis clips; suture carriers - two straight and three curved; four long perineal hemostats; urethral sound with attachment for flexible urethral probe (without probe); telescope for oblique lens; MacCarthy urethroscope with obturator; obturator without barrel - small for child; large for adult; syringe (without needle); scissors for transurethral meatotomy; syringe for lavage; Wilford Council transurethral utero-lithotome; urethral guide for urethroscope; rubber tube to force fluid through urethra; catheterizing cystoscope; stylet to keep catheter stiff while threading into urethra; two swabbers to clean cystoscope; MacCarthy transurethral resectoscope; electrical cords for the resectoscope; electric light to illuminate a cavity; attachment for a cystoscope to help hold steady; four cases of cystoscope light bulbs; four lugs for conduct of water; two washers; Luer-lock; four caps; obturator; two valves; catheter guide; five sounds for stretching; phenolsulfaphthaleine (PSP); washer for lavage; glass connector for rubber tubing; metal beads.
Inscription on stethoscope: Dr. Scott 369 Grand N. Exeter Hall. Flexible monaural stethoscopes were introduced around 1832. These were tubes of coiled spring covered with woven silk, usually 14 to 18 inches long, with a chest piece at one end and usually a very short, straight earpiece at the other.
Scarifcator has 12 blades; no other markings on scarifcator or box.
Case stamped A.H. Kennedy 246 N. Second St. Philadelphia.
Seven small ivory handled tools; top case lowers to reveal two more tools (red velvet lined case); 11 instruments total. Label in case says "Dissecting instruments of the best quality, manufactured by P. Madeira Eight Street, two doors below Chestnut, Philadelphia".
Red leather case; blue velvet interior. 8 pieces total.
Outer lid of tin has bird; inside is bright orange; small mss included w/ wts?
Outer case elaborately stamped; inside has green lining; knife with gold / glass handle.
Back of case is leather - has small metal chain and clip.
Inscribed Wiegand & Snowden.
No marking or inscription, only "35" on the back.
Includes tweezers, tortoise shield lancets, scissors, catheter. Otto & Reynders Surg Inst Trusses 64 Chatam St NY.
Elisha Perkins (1741-99) of CT claimed to draw out pains from any part of the body using this pair of metal rods (one silver, one brass).
Artifacts donated by Robert W. Severence.
Sphygmomanometer is a baumanometer. New York: W.A. Baum Co. Engraved plate on cover with Dr. Easley's name.
Artifacts donated by Dr. D.J. Smith.
Housed in wooden box made for shipping this item.
Unknown material, possibly silica glass. One common way in which lechatelierite forms naturally is by very high temperature melting of quartz sand during a lightning strike. Lechatelierite may also form artificially, a unique example being the trinitite produced by melting of quartz sand at the first nuclear bomb explosion at Trinity Flats, White Sands, New Mexico.
Artifacts donated by Dr. W.W. Stanfield.
Single blade scarificator in leather case, undated
Brass mortar and pestle
Artifacts donated by Dr. and Mrs. Haywood M. Taylor.
Portable medicine chest, Philadelphia, Lentz & Sons, Co. Comes in leather case with shoulder strap. Filled with empty pharmacy jars (no content, no labels).
Engraved metal plate on cover identifies original owner as H.E. Fernold, M.D. The donor, Dr. Taylor, was a member of the original staff of Duke Hospital.
Artifacts donated by Dr. Josiah Charles Trent.
Signed: R. & J. Beck, London & Philadelphia, 8292. Brass and lacquer microscope with curved "Lister Limb" (the arm which attached to the body tube to the base) which was designed by Joseph Jackson Lister.
The firm began as Smith and Beck in 1847 and became R. & J. Beck in 1869 and eventually Beck & Beck. It was one of the first British makers to develop factory production methods and to manufacture to standard dimensions.
Entirely of brass, including the round base. The wooden case has a few surviving accessories including: a small case of specimen slides with identifying label inside the top of the case. It is unsigned.
Unsigned. Brass with scrolled legs.
This unsigned brass microscope is mounted on a rectangular metal base with a black matte finish. The stage is supported by two round pillars and can be adjusted to tilt. The body-tube swivels from the pillar to which the stage is attached and has a bull's-eye condenser fixed to the front on a jointed arm. The mirror is missing.
Compound binocular, signed: M. Pillischer, London, No. 1441. This brass microscope has four high-quality objective lenses and two sets of eyepieces housed in the original wooden case with brass handle.
A great advance in optics was achieved in the mid 19th century with the development of achromatic lenses. These employed a combination of lens elements, constructed from two or more different types of glass, to correct the spherical and chromatic aberations that had limited the image quality and resolution of lenses for the previous two hundred years. The optical binocular vision is different from that in modern microscopes. It reduces resolution slightly but gives a stereoscopic image.
Signed: Carl Zeiss, Jena, No. 27233. Brass with black lacquered iron base. Wooden case with metal label: E. Admet, Paris. Accessories include lens and occulars.
Dr. Carl Zeiss founded a business in Jena, Germany and began making microscopes in 1847. His was the dominant optical firm in the world from the beginning of the 20th century through 1945 when it was separated into two firms following partition of Germany after World War II. Many firms have been associated with the Zeiss firm and have produced Zeiss products under license or as partners. Bausch & Lomb, which originated in Rochester, N.Y. in 1853, was among those.
Simple monocular microscope, signed E. Culpepper, Londini. Brass with ivory handle. Housed in a small box covered in fish-skin and lined with green velvet. Some of the original parts are missing (notably the extension for opaque objects); however, it does include: six brass-mounted objectives, four ivory sliders, one brass slider, or animalcule cage, for living specimens, one opaque specimen holder with black and white disks and forceps, and one small ivory talc box.
Developed by 1710, the brass screw-barrel microscope was the most common pocket microscope produced by instument makers in the 18th century. Intended primarily for tranparent specimens, this single lens microscope's small size, ease of use, and low price made it quite popular among amateurs. Normally held by an ivory handle screwed to the side of the body, the microscope could also be mounted via a ball joint at the top of a pillar which stood on a flat tripod. Over time many modifications were made to the original design and numerous accessories were employed which allowed a broader range of use.
Nkisi Nkondi. African healing statue. BaKongo, Congo - between 1880 and 1910. Wood, pigment, metal and glass.
Minkisi (singular nkisi) are ritual objects used by the BaKongo (people of the Congo) for oath taking and healing. They are complex objects that derive their power from the dead, and to them, paradoxically, have been attributed the abilities both to afflict and to heal, to visit good as well as evil on a person.
Made of brass, with decorative abstract floral design on the outside of the mortar.
Bronze, with two small decorative handles on the sides of the mortar. The outside of the mortar is ringed with fleurs-de-lis with a single unidentifiable medallion on the front. Signed: Nicolas Buret (?). On bottom of mortar: 1869 XVIII --- [remainer illegible]
Five-compartment box of carved brown laquer, unidentitied origin. Scene depicts a scholar sitting in a pavillion.
Inro, first made around 1600 in the form they are known today, are small, highly decorated, multicompartmented boxes or cases that mainly carried medicines, tobacco, cosmetics, or perfumes.
Five-compartment box, painted red and gold on a black laquer ground and depicting a pastoral scene with bamboo fence and screen. Unidentified origin.
Inro, first made around 1600 in the form they are known today, are small, highly decorated, multicompartmented boxes or cases that mainly carried medicines, tobacco, cosmetics, or perfumes.
English-made, in a walnut case in double-fronted cupboard style with ivory knobs and brass drawer pull. Accessories include scales, mortar and pestle, glass measuring cups and funnel. Custom made glass bottles with contents intact.
Home medicine chests such as the walnut one shown here helped families to manage illnesses by having a convenient stock of ready made medicines close at hand. The typical chest contained an assortment of powders, tonics, and salves along with a copy of a home medical manual. An ivory crochet hook, found in a drawer of this chest, was used to hang the scales needed to weigh ingredients. Larger chests had additional bottles in a back compartment concealed by a sliding panel.
Italy; made of bronze.
Portrait bust of Dr. Josiah Charles Trent by Antonio Salemme. Bronze.
Cast at Roman Bronze Works, Inc., Corona, NY. Dedicated on April 10, 1976.
Carved ivory bas-relief skeleton, of unknown origin.
Large amputating saw made of bronze and iron with hand-carved wooden handle, with tightening screw. 26.5" x 7.25". Meant for two-person operation.
Metal with wooden handle.
Made of metal, with gull-wing handle; includes accessories in velvet-lined wooden case.
Horseshoe tourniquet. Brescia [Italy], by Figini. Brass and leather.
Signoroni's design executed by Figini.
Metal obstetric forceps.
Roman surgical instruments. Replicas of bronze 3rd century CE instruments. 14 instruments.
Couch is covered in red velvet. Made in France, Germany or Italy. Articulated, detachable plate, seperate organs. Hair and facial features are colored. There is also a fetus.
Made in either France, Germany or Italy. Articulated, detachable plate, separate organs, and fetus.
France, Germany or Italy. Articulated, detachable plate, separate organs. Includes fetus.
Female manikin with ivory pillow on wooden couch covered in striped brocade. Couch has ivory feet. France, Germany or Italy. Articulated, detachable plate, separate organs. Includes fetus.
France, Germany or Italy. Articulated, detachable plate, separate organs, and fetus.
France, Germany or Italy. Articulated, detachable plate, separate organs, with fetus.
France, Germany or Italy: 17th/18th century. Articulated, detachable plate, separate organs, and a fetus.
France, Germany or Italy. Articulated, detachable plate, separate organs, and fetus.
France, Germany or Italy. Articulated, detachable plate, separate organs, with fetus.
France, Germany or Italy. Articulated, detachable plate, separate organs, and fetus.
France, Germany, or Italy. Not articulated, detachable plate, separate organs, and fetus.
Made in France, Germany or Italy. Detachable plate, organs carved in place. Cover attached to box with metal hinge; the inside of the lid is painted
France, Germany or Italy. Detachable plate, separate organs.
France, Germany or Italy. One of a pair of ivory figures. Not articulated, detachable plate, organs carved in place.
France, Germany or Italy. Articulated, detachable plate, separate organs, with fetus.
France, Germany or Italy. One of a pair of figures. Not articulated, detachable plate, organs carved in place. Includes a fetus.
Ivory figure on carved base. Not articulated.
Ivory figure with removable top-knot for possible use as a snuff bottle. Not articulated.
Ivory figure on wooden couch. Not articulated.
On verso: In omnibus operibus moribund memorare novissima et in eternum non peccabit
Young male/female pair and a skeleton.
Made in England at an unknown date. Legend is in English.
Dr. Trent's microscope, given by Rebecca Trent Kirkland.
Artifacts donated by Vann.
Made in Germany; painted with various colors to show anatomical parts.
Artifacts donated by Warner Wells, MD.
Two white ceramic bowls, one short and one tall, each with a blue star below the inside rim. One small metal spoon.
Picked up in the ruins of Hiroshima about 2 to 3 weeks after the bombing. The spoon, with the rice bowl, was treasured as a luxury item.
Silk table runner. Kyoto, Osaka, Tokyo: Tatsumura Institute of Textile Art. Reproduction of Han Dynasty design. Housed in wooden box.
One of the gifts given to Dr. Wells by Dr. Hachiya in appreciation for his help in translating "Hiroshima Diary."
Artifacts donated by George D. Wilbanks, MD and Evelyn R. Wilbanks, PhD.
Signed: A. Abraham, Liverpool. Brass on wooden base with accessories. Elegant scrollwork legs. Original pyramidal carrying case.
Compound monocular microscope, unsigned. Made of brass with cutaway on both sides.
Popular in England between 1820 and 1850, the drum microscope evolved from a design introduced in 1738 by London optician Benjamin Martin, author of the "Pocket Reflecting Microscope." The name came from the drum-shaped section below the stage. Focusing was achieved by manipulating the telescopic body tube. This portable pocket microscope was typically made of thin brass with a round base and cut-out side. Some versions were sold in toy shops.
Compound monocular, unsigned, made of brass with cutaway on one side. Housed in original wooden case with a few accessories still intact.
This lidded copper cooker was used to slowly simmer herbal preparations. The nickel cylinder held the fuel; the level of the flame was regulated by the knob on the brass base.
White porcelain with red cross, handle and spout at 90 degrees.
Burr's patent nursing bottles. Blue-green glass. Patd Nov. 26th 1872.
1) Large pewter with wooden plunger (enema) 2) Small brass syringe with ivory nozzle (ear, vagina or mouth) 3) Medium stainless steel. Empire. Rutherford, NJ. Becton Dickinson & Co. (enema) 4) Medium stainless steel (enema) 5) Small stainless steel (ENT)
England: Regnas. White porcelain with markings for table, dessert, or tea.
This dosing instrument is made of pewter.
Various cupping jars: 2 tin cupping jars, 9 blown glass, including one very large cup or 'Bonkus' with handle (Marbury, Patented: April 21, 1896)
Housed in leather case stamped in gold: Hawkes Crystalized lenses. Extra lenses also present.
Louisville, KY: J.F. Kurfees [?] Co. Snap closure. Medicine vials are flat-ish.
New York: S.E. Massengill Company. Snap closure. Child's tablets.
1) Schumann & Doescher - Prescription Druggists, New Orleans, Louisiana 2) Gombault's Caustic Balsam - Lawrence Williams Co. 3) Dr. Wistar's Balsam of Wild Cherry 4) Frey's Vermifuge - Baltimore 5) Davis' Painkiller 6) Dr. Robert Folger - Olosaionian, New York (blown) 7) Dr. D. Jayne's Alternative (blown) 8) Warner's Safe Kidney & Liver Cure (brown glass pressed, picture of a safe) 9) Balsam of Honey (card says "1950, dug in Lancaster, Pennsylvania") 10) Dr. Langley's Root & Herb Bitters - 99 Union Street, Boston (blown, green glass) 11) Ramon's Santonine Worm Syrup 12) Larkin smelling salts, Buffalo (green) 13) Unmarked except for "D" on bottom 14) Two clear bottles - one with fly dried in liquid 15) Clear glass bottle - unmarked (not an infant feeder)
Blown glass with glass labels: 1) Ac. Sulph D. 2) Ac. Nitric
Contents: glass stoppered bottles (some with labels), brass balance and weights, mortar and pestle, graduate, miscellaneous instruments. Includes a key.
Copper and brass.
Brown leather bag with key. Handle is broken. Contents: medical instruments, hypodermic kits, needle and suture boxes, syringe cases in leather compacts.
Used by Dr. Ellen E. Brown, Chester, Pennsylvania, in her practice. Given to the donor by Dr. John Longhead, Duke Ob/Gyn House Staff in 1960s.
London: William Justus. Silver with gilt interior. Engraved initials: JAO
London: Emes & Bernard. George III-era silver feeder in leather case with Hall & Co. Silversmiths, Manchester printed on lining of case.
New York: W.A. Baum Co. Has two bags and cuffs.
Pat. March 17, 1918. Glass.
Three are domed (each with a chip out of the rim), one is molded
Ten various feeders: classic gravy boat type (handle and spout in line); white with faint gold design, porcelain; blue "Delft" Royal Copenhagen type; flower, plain white porcelain - (11.L) marked on bottom; brown pottery "duck" ; plain, porcelain white flowers; white porcelain "duck" Side spout (handle and spout at 90 degrees); painted china (large); plain white porcelain; white porcelain with red cross.
Marked USA: Lampson & Gooduo Mfg. Co.
Marked J. Rudell & Co., Green River Works.
Marked London: May Roberts. Screw-operated with 12 cavities.
Screw-operated with six cavities.
Comes in two parts. Walnut and brass.
Cervical dilator/catheter, small probe with wooden handle, metal syringe.
Donated to Dr. Wilbanks by Dr. George Finola (Rush Medical College faculty).
Philadelphia, PA: N.H. Edgerton. 33 wood-framed slides in wooden box.
Used for craniotomies.
Ebony handle. Used in conjunction with trephine.
Ebony handle and one hook.
Two tapered metal vials with rubber caps; one missing vial.
Ear trumpet made of chrome.
Once painted black. Dome-shaped.
Paris: Louis Lafont. Dome-shaped with decorative grill.
England: Wiegand & Snowden. Brass in leather case.
Tortoise shell handles. London: Evans. Plaid slipcase. Carried by Dr. Ella E. Brown of Chester, Pennsylvania in her doctor's bag.
Five bottles, three jars. Handle and clasp damaged.
Six empty glass bottles with stoppers and metal screw caps. Case has two snaps.
Wooden box with apothecary weights written on inside of the lid. Twenty-three manuscript prescriptions on small separate pieces of paper.
Stamped on bottom: U.S.A. M.D. Pioneer, New York, NY. Used to dissolve powders and pills into solution for injection.
Leather case.
Includes: Slide-catch forceps, folding scalpel, needles, scoop.
Includes: Hale's speculum, syringes, D&C set, anesthesia mask for use with ether or chloroform, amputating knife, forceps, plastic endocervical applicators, retractors, dilators.
Has 16 blades in brass case.
Leavenworth Kansas: Adolf Lance. Label.
One lens can be changed in eyepiece. Used to measure sight and fit eyeglasses.
Bag is made of leather. Contents include: two small surgical kits, needles and syringes, one syringe in metal case.
Artifact Box 337 contains doctor's bag, Artifact Box 343 contains the instruments.
Wood used in cup reputedly had medicinal properties to enhance any solution drunk as a tonic.
Steel. London: Down. Used in the U.K. and developing countries.
Heavy blown glass.
Hallmark on bottom of bowl.
Five pewter infant or invalid feeders. Reproductions.
Wire handle.
Oxygenkure oxygen generator machine. New York: Seeger & Clarke. Box with directions on the inside of cover.
Whitall, Tatum & Co. Two glass cups, alcohol lamp; brass and wood.
Saddlebag has space for bottles and a drawer on each side. Leather with brass trim. Glass bottles, many with contents.
Housed in a rolled case. Used by Dr. Wilbanks in his 1952 anatomy class.
Medicine chest with homeopathic medicine bottles. Wooden. Glass bottles with labels, some contents intact.
Raritan, N.J.: Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation
Overbeck's Rejuvenator: popular model "Grimsby"; England, O. Overbeck. Housed in box with original instruction book.
Six large, two small.
New York: W.H. Burnap. Wooden box with magnet and coils, with directions inside lid. Box is damaged and there is no key.
When handle is turned, it generates current through wires to hand-held cylinders.
Made in Boston. Wooden box with dry cell battery and electrodes. No key.
Sculpted in Germany. Colored.
Size 2 pestle with size 3 extra pestle; wooden handle is loose. Made in U.S.
Early binaural stethoscope. Philadelphia: George P. Pilling & Son Co. In original wooden box.
Early eyeglasses; two are in leather cases.
Brown tin box is painted orange inside. Contains provenance note, which gives the orginal owner as the Jones Family in New Britain, Connecticut, and dates its use back to 1740.
Eight lancets. Four are housed in tortoise sheaths; two are in brass cases with steel blades; one single blade lancet comes with old worn leather case; one triple blade lancet has unusual horn case.
Small brass microscope in wooden box with green lining. Includes a few glass slides, key for outside of case.
Brass microscope in wooden box with handle on top of box. Microscope on wooden moveable stage inscribed Hill and Price, Bristol. Includes a few glass slides.
Chest piece attachment for early stethoscope; the rubber tubing that attached to the chest piece has been lost.
Artifacts donated by family of Robert Williams, MD.
Gift of Mrs. Mabel F. Williams in memory of donor's husband, Dr. Robert Williams.
Medical artifacts received from unknown sources.
Compound binocular. Signed: Spencer, Buffalo, USA. This example has a pair of metal hand rests.
One of the first American microscopes was made in 1850 by C.A. and H.R. Spencer of Canastota, New York. Spencer lenses earned a reputation at home and abroad and some experts considered them superior to any European product. Spencer objectives received a Gold Medal at the 1878 Paris Exhibition. The firm subsequently moved to Buffalo in 1890. The complex business history of the firm involved multiple names and leadership changes. In 1935 the Spencer Lens Company was absorbed by the American Optical Company.
Made of ivory. Essentially a simple magnifier with only one power (7x). Usually the compact design, no larger than the end of a thumb, included a cap or top containing a pin on which to place the specimen and a base with glass discs to serve as "slides" for small objects. Everything screwed together for ease in carrying. Typically, these were used to study tiny insects, hence the name.
Model of the human body showing Chinese acupuncture points and the courses of the meridians. 26 cm tall. Acessories include a case of acupuncture needles and a manual; these are housed in original box.
Made of plastic, on stand; 44 cm tall.
Porcelain with gold rim. Colored floral decorations. Large oblong with central cut out along one side and small cut out on one end of the opposite side.
Ruby glass with gold trim. Flask has cork stopper taped to neck.
Tray of handblown glass eyeballs in various shades of blue.
Includes compass in lid of ivory, velvet-lined case. Engraved on verso of thermometer: Wm Hitchen, 21 Bridgewater Garens [sic]. William Hitchin appears to have been an ivory and tortoiseshell worker at 21 Bridgewater Gardens in the Barbican area of London; he died sometime in 1839 or 1840.
Decorated with gilded red lacquer. Design includes central figure surrounded by twelve other figures. Each figure is the lid of a separate cylindrical well for storing herbs and medicinal plants.
Label: Argent. Oxyd. White ceramic with lid. Lid was damaged and repaired.
Label: Hydr. Iod. Rub. White ceramic with lid.
Marked: Coors, USA.
White ceramic with pestle missing.
Wooden chest with glass knobs, contents of drawers identified with glass labels. Country of origin is England.
Miscellaneous parts, some damaged, housed in wooden box with label: C.T. Amsler, Optician, 635 Chestnut St., Phila. Box has some damage. C.T. Amsler sold his business in Philadelphia in 1861 and returned to Switzerland, his native country.
Brass miscroscope accessories housed in wooden cigar box.
New York: G. Tiemann & Co. Housed in velvet-lined case.
Philadelphia: Chas. Lentz & Sons.
Doctor's bag with instruments.
Gavel of wood from the birthplace of Walter Reed, Belroi, Virginia.
A caustic pencil is a short stick of medication usually containing silver nitrate, used to cauterize skin, for instance for the treatment of nosebleeds, removal of warts, or pyogenic granuloma. They are not used as a treatment for minor cuts. A frequent source of confusion appears to be the difference between styptic and caustic pencils. Silver nitrate sticks are often used for hemostasis in medical situations where patients are not under general anesthesia, where electrocautery would be painful and inconvenient.
Marked St. Louis, MO: C.W. Alban.
Velvet lined wooden box. Brass plate on lid: Dr. T.B. Fuqua.
Package of wooden tongue depressors. Sayah. Original packaging in cardboard box.
Brass with cloth strap.
Hew saw [18th century] and bit [19th century].
Early Greek. Replica.
On plunger knob: D&H, Record. On plunger: Herz, Germany.
Metal; possibly used in pill making.
Used in pill-making. Cast steel with wooden handle.
Marked New York: W.F. Ford Co. Brass.
Hypodermic needle in glass tube
Schering. Replica of original from Northern Peru, circa 800-1000 AD; replica was used for pharmaceutical advertising.
Replica of first stethoscope by Rene Theophile Laennec in 1816. Marked "Roche." Housed in gift box.
Leather bag with key. Contains 100 labeled glass vials, some with contents: 60 small, 44 large. Also comes with miscellaneous instruments, including metal case with hypodermic needles and lancet.
Mounted for display.
Smellie perforating scissors (right), craniotomy hook (center), and trocar (left).
Obstetrical/gynecological medical instruments in a wooden box: Handle for instrument, unknown use.
Ob/gyn medical instruments in a wooden box: Two syringes marked India Rubber Catarrhal Syringe. Box label reads: manufactured under Goodyear's Patent by India Rubber Comb Company
Ob/gyn medical instruments in a wooden box: India rubber breast pump. Box label reads: manufactured under Goodyear's Patent by India Rubber Comb Co.
Ob/gyn medical instruments in a wood box: Brass scarificator, glass cupping jar, and set of graduated metal cups.
Ob/gyn medical instruments in a wooden box: Rubber pessary
Ob/Gyn medical instruments in a wooden box: Obstetrics forceps with wooden handle, Placenta forceps
Ob/Gyn medical instruments in a wooden box: Cusco's bivalve speculum, Fergusson's speculum
Ob/Gyn medical instruments in a wooden box: various probes and catheters
Ob/Gyn medical instruments in a wooden box: Unidentified instrument
Contents include: Catheters, probes
Marked Paris: E.P. [n.d.] Ivory handles.
Cast of bound foot of an adult woman treated by Dr. Wm. H. Park around 1890.
Donated by anonymous patient of Dr. Heidi K. White.
Set of fourteen surgical instruments with ivory handles.
Large brass microscope in wooden case; includes many parts, and specimen slides.
Collection consists of materials documenting Kathy Hopwood's work in the areas of women's martial arts and self-defense in the Triangle area of North Carolina. Materials from her SafeSkills Dojo comprise self-defense training manuals, course and workshop materials, newsletters, organizational history, some correspondence, and the individual work of both Hopwood and her partner Beth Seigler. Press clippings document mentions of Hopwood, Seigler, and their dojo in print media, largely from Triangle-area publications. Materials from the National Women's Martial Arts Federation (NWMAF) provide documentation of that organization's history, particularly its early years. Hopwood and Seigler were both very active in the organization, and Hopwood served as its archivist for a 10-year period. There is also extensive documentation of NWMAF's yearly training camps for women and girls. Materials from other women's martial arts groups across the country are well-documented, as are materials on sexual assault and rape prevention, particularly from the Triangle area. Also included are books and periodicals on the topic of women's martial arts and self-defense. Photographs document the dojo's work, as well as national training sessions conducted by Hopwood and Seigler. Other audio-visual material consists of training films and examples of the dojo's instructors at work. Consists of materials generated by and relating to the North Carolina dojo founded by Kathy Hopwood, known over time as the Triangle Women's Karate Association, Triangle Women's Martial Arts, and finally SafeSkills. Largely consists of programming and educational materials focusing on self-defense strategies for women and children. Includes some correspondence and files documenting the individual work of Hopwood and Siegler. Also includes organizational newsletters published by the dojo over the years, published articles by Kathy Hopwood, and a booklet entitled Touching the Past detailing the organization's history in Box 23.
Drafts, notes, thoughts, reflections and papers about self-defense and martial arts, focusing on the why and how of teaching and what social obstacles are in the way.
Media coverage of Kathy Hopwood's work, articles in which Hopwood is quoted, and articles and newsletters written by Hopwood.
Materials related to this national organization in which Hopwood and Siegler were active. Chiefly consists of materials from yearly training camps. Kathy Hopwood was the organization's first archivist, and kept the most complete set of materials from 1988-1995. Includes original NWMAF logo designed by Kathy Hopwood.
This series contains materials documenting martial arts and self-defense programs for women and children elsewhere in the country. Largely consists of materials from regional organizations, and provides an overview of other programs similar to the ones run by Hopwood in North Carolina.
Contains materials related to the issue of rape and sexual assault, with a focus on martial arts and self-defense strategies. Materials have a local focus on the Triangle area of North Carolina, especially the Orange County Rape Crisis Center.
Periodicals books, reference materials, and other published works related to self-defense with a focus on women's issues.
Scope contents here.
3 CDs
Collection includes, but is not limited to writings, research and subject files, project files, talks/speeches, and files documenting group work.
Collection comprises a letter (dated 1909 September 22) from Julia Ward Howe to Magister H.R. Sanborn of Concord, Massachusetts. The letter was written from Green Peace, Bedford, New York (Howe's son's house). The main topic of the letter is Howe's unnamed poem which she will read at the upcoming Hudson-Fulton celebration on the evening of the 27th. The Hudson-Fulton Celebration was held in New York and New Jersey from September 25 to October 9, 1909. The purpose was to commemorate the 300th anniversary of Henry Hudson’s discovery of the Hudson River and the 100th anniversary of Robert Fulton’s first use of the paddle steamer on the Hudson in 1807. Howe also mentions the books she has been reading. Included with the letter is an additional envelope addressed to J.L. Sanborn of Bradford, Massachusetts. It appears to have contained Howe's letter and been sent a few days later.
Collection consists chiefly of research and planning materials deriving from Hudson's ground-breaking work during the 1950s on endemic syphilis in the Middle East, in the regions of modern-day Syria and Iraq. The "Bejel Project," as it was known, from a term for endemic syphilis, is documented through correspondence, planning documents, case files, reports, hand-drawn maps, and related articles and other writings. Most of the patients mentioned are only referred to by first names. The bulk of the material dates from 1948 to 1952, the lifespan of Hudson's project. The collection also includes drafts of writings concerning the history and epidemiology of venereal and non-venereal syphilis in colonial-period Americas and in Europe.
Forms part of the Trent Manuscripts Collection ans was acquired by the History of Medicine Collections at Duke University. Additional papers and many photographs relating to Hudson and his work can be found in another Ellis Hudson collection in the Rubenstein Library, which is represented in the online catalog and finding aid.
Original folder titles have been retained. Dates range chiefly from 1948-1952.
Contains very detailed reports from the beginning of the project, including notes about setting up the laboratory and project headquarters, shipping equipment, lab animals, and medical supplies, difficulties in the field, tensions among players (both political and cultural), and assessments of personnel and situations.
Folders contain articles by various authors, reprints, drafts of writings, notes, and correspondence, including a long series of exchanges about the etymology in Arabic and Hebrew of various words for leprosy, yaws, and syphilitic symptoms.
The collection consists primarily of first editions, limited editions, translations, and other editions (many of them autographed or inscribed, 1965-1998) of the works of Anne Tyler, delineating her prolific career. Also includes books about or containing contributions by Tyler (1958-1993); issues of periodicals containing her contributions or reviews of her work (1965-1996); and three pieces of her original correspondence (1979-1989).
First and only printing, thought to be Tyler's first appearance in print; 1958-1959
By Jessie Rehder, second printing; Odyssey Press, 1962
William Blackburn, ed., first edition, includes first publication of I Never Saw Morning; Duke University Press, 1963
William Blackburn, ed., first edition, signed by Tyler; Duke University Press, 1970
Martha Saxton, ed.; Literary Guild/Doubleday, 1972
Martha Foley, ed., first edition; Houghton Mifflin, 1977
Joyce Carol Oates, ed., first edition; Ontario Review Press, 1983
First edition, introduction by Tyler; Available Press/Ballantine, 1985
Catherine Rainwater and William J. Scheick, eds., first edition; University Press of Kentucky, 1985
By Joseph C. Voelker, first edition; University of Missouri Press, 1989
William Shore, ed.; Vintage, 1989
Michael C. White and Alan Davis, eds., introduction by guest judge Tyler; uncorrected proof; Birch Lane Press, 1990
C. Ralph Stephens, ed., first edition; University Press of Mississippi, 1990
Susan Sherman, ed., limited edition; William B. Ewert, 1992
By Elizabeth Evans, first edition, signed by Tyler and Evans; Tawyne, 1993
By Taghi Modarressi (Tyler's husband), first edition; Doubleday, 1986
The Jody Jones Hunter Collection of Works by William Styron includes first editions, limited editions, translations, and other editions, many of them autographed or inscribed, of the works of William Styron, along with published articles, correspondence, manuscripts, and related materials. The correspondence is chiefly letters written by Styron to Stuart Wright, the owner of Palaemon Press in Winston-Salem, N.C. and publisher of several limited editions of Styron's work. Also included with the collection is a carbon typescript of Confessions of Nat Turner, with holograph notes, and the original typescript of Styron's recipe for southern fried chicken from The Artist's and Writer's Cookbook (1961).
The addition (Accession 2001-0056) consists largely of books (mostly first editions, some signed or inscribed) and printed material written by or about Styron, or containing his contributions (1951-2001). Also includes editions of All the Finest Girls (2001), by Alexandra Styron (his youngest daughter); an original manuscript review of Sophie's Choice (1979) by Julian Symons; an original publisher's advertisement for The Confessions of Nat Turner (1967); an uncorrected proof of Admiral Robert Penn Warren and the Snows of Winter: A Tribute (1978?); and an original holograph manuscript of Styron's 1977 review of Philip Caputo's A Rumor of War (1977).
Addition (08-081)(5 items, .1 lin. ft.; undated) comprises a signed black-and-white photograph, and four pages of Styron's writing (two sheets are signed).
Addition (08-325)(4 items, .3 lin. ft.; dated 1982-1995 and undated) comprises two items of correspondence, a signed photograph, and an undated screenplay, SET THIS HOUSE ON FIRE.
First editions, translations, and other editions, many signed and inscribed, of Styron's first novel.
1st edition, presentation copy.
1st edition - Tipped in Letter - no dust jacket.
1st edition, signed.
Slipcased.
French edition.
French edition.
Signed by Styron and Yates.
Slipcased - letter 'J' of 26 lettered copies.
#3 of 250 copies signed by Styron.
Trade edition.
First editions, first published versions, translations, and other editions of Styron's novella.
Signed by Styron; "The Long March" on page 221.
"The Long March" on page 221.
Signed.
British edition.
Pages uncut.
Signed.
Swedish edition.
1st edition, trial dust jacket.
1st edition, signed.
1st edition, signed.
1st British edition, signed.
1st British edition.
Excerpt from Set This House on Fire.
French paperback edition.
Reprint of 1961spanish language edition.
First editions, translations, and other editions of Styron's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel. Also includes contemporary accounts of the Turner rebellion, published excerpts of the novel, and other related publications.
See also Box 14 (oversize).
1st edition; presentation copy to James Jones and his wife Gloria.
#23 of 500, signed, slipcased.
Signed on tipped in leaf.
Fourth printing, signed.
1st British edition, with Pulitzer Prize wrap.
1st British edition.
Pirated edition, photo offset from the Random House edition, signed.
Pirated edition, photo offset from the Random House edition.
Brown leather.
#18 of 45 deluxe copies of 1st French edition.
2nd French edition.
Portuguese edition.
1st edition.
Text of Styron's essay "Nat Turner Revisited."
1st edition. An account of the Turner uprising published nine days before his capture.
Confessions of Nat Turner excerpted.
Responses to Nat Turner.
Essay on Nat Turner by George Core.
Poems inspired by Nat Turner.
Essay on Nat Turner by William McGill.
Lengthy excerpt of Nat Turner.
1st edition, signed.
First editions, translations, and other editions of Styron's novel. Also includes published excerpts and related materials.
Brown leather.
Advance presentation edition.
Slipcased, signed limited edition, #490 of 500.
1st trade edition.
1st British edition.
Two volumes.
1st Finnish Edition.
Portuguese edition.
Contains review of Sophie's Choice.
Essay on the making of the movie "Sophie's Choice."
Excerpt from Sophie's Choice.
Bound copy of essay used in promotion of Confessions of Nat Turner.
1st edition, # 73 of 250, signed, slipcased.
1st trade edition.
1st British edition.
1st French edition.
1st edition.
1st paperback edition.
1st edition.
1st large print edition.
#304 of 350 copies signed.
1st edition, signed, #47 of 200 slipcased.
Chiefly fine press editions of Styron's writings. Some trade editions of collected works are also included. See also Box 15 (oversize).
Includes "Shadrach."
Galley proofs, signed by Styron.
1st edition, letter 'R" of 26 lettered copies.
2nd edition, letter 'B' of 26 lettered copies.
2nd edition, number viii of 50 roman numeral copies.
2nd edition, number 39 of 100.
2nd edition, #53 of 100.
Letter 'O' of 26 lettered.
#84 of 200 copies.
#50 of 1000 copies.
1st edition.
Letter 'Z' of 26 copies.
#237 of 300 copies.
Signed, edition limited to 75 copies.
Letter 'L' of 26 copies.
#16 of 26 copies.
#2 of 100 copies.
#14 of 100 copies.
Published works containing writings by Styron, chiefly short nonfiction pieces, interviews, forwards and introductions, and cover "blurbs." For additional periodicals see also Clippings, Box 13 (oversize)
Blurb by Styron.
Forward by Styron.
Cloth edition.
Paperback.
Introduction by Styron.
1st edition, signed by Styron.
1st edition.
Blurb and introduction by Styron.
1st edition.
1st paperback edition.
Introduction by William Styron.
Introduction by Styron.
Introduction by Styron.
Blurb by Styron.
Forward by Styron.
Essay by Styron.
Published interviews, short biographical profiles, analysis, and photographs. Also includes two works by Styron's wife, the poet Rose Burgunder Styron.
Dedicated to Styron.
Interview with Styron.
Interview with Styron.
Chiefly published excerpts of novels, arranged by novel in chronological order, and short non-fiction pieces by and about Styron. See also Box 13 (oversize).
Printed from the internet in 1997.
One autographed postcard, 1979, May 30;Two autographed letters, 1982, Nov. 3and undated
Chiefly letters from Styron to Wright. Wright owned Palaemon Press in Winston-Salem, N.C. and published many limited editions of Styron's work. In some correspondence, Styron addresses Wright as Lt. Col. Stuart Wright and signs himself as Maj. Gen. William Styron, CSA.
33 1/3 rpm long playing 7" vinyl record.
Styron reads from Nat Turner and The Long March.
VHS recording of Styron speaking to James Dickey's class.
Audio cassette of Styron reading at Davidson College.
2 audio cassettes, read by Styron.
Home-recorded Beta cassette of a public television broadcast.
Home-recorded Beta cassette of a public television broadcast. Styron and Arthur Miller discuss music in their lives and work.
Home-recorded cassette of a 1-hour documentary. 2 copies - one Beta, one VHS.
Home-recorded Beta video cassette.
2 sets of 2 cassettes each.
Styron has a cameo appearance.
Clippings and oversize periodicals, 1951-1998,and undatedChiefly reviews and profiles of Styron. Includes some short non-fiction pieces by Styron. Listed chronologically.
Carbon copy, with holograph corrections, of Styron's original typescript.
Third printing, with long inscription by Styron to reviewer Maxwell Giesmar; includes Geismar's holograph comments and marks of emphasis.
First edition; Herbert Aptheker's copy, signed by him and including his marks and annotations throughout.
First edition; contains many mentions of Styron.
First edition; includes Styron's It Cannot Be Long.
First edition; introduction by Styron.
First edition; signed by the author.
Uncorrected proof in original green wrappers.
Includes several mentions of Styron.
Includes excerpt from Styron's 1981 commencement speech at Duke.
Styron's advance reading copy of the first edition.
First edition; includes excerpt from Styron's Darkness Visible.
First edition; introduction by Styron.
First edition, signed by the photographer; includes portrait of Styron.
Review by Dave Shiflett of Onward! book.
Accompanied by articles printed from the internet about the event.
Uncorrected proof.
Published as The Penalties of Survival in the [London] Times Literary Supplement, November 30, 1979.
First published in The New York Review of Books, 23 June 1977.
One black-and-white signed photograph, and four pages of Styron's writing (two sheets are signed).
Two items of correspondence in one folder. Also includes a photograph and an undated screenplay, SET THIS HOUSE ON FIRE (in one box).
The records of the International Center for Transitional Justice (ICTJ) span the years 1918 to 2020, with the bulk of the materials from the late 20th and early 21st century. The materials document the activities of ICTJ in its support of peace processes and to the pursuit of legal reparations and reconciliation in areas of conflict involving human rights violations. Formats in the collection include ICTF office and administrative files, annual reports, single articles, legal journals, human rights organization publications, reports and white papers, conference proceedings, newspapers and clippings, trial transcripts, teaching materials, and photographs, as well as some posters and other ephemera such as fliers, graphics, invitations, and programs. There are many audiovisual and digital formats.
There are four main series: Geographic Files, Reference and Reports, Program and Subject Files, and Administrative Files. The Geographic series contains materials from countries directly impacted by the work of ICTJ and its partners. It is arranged by continent and then by country. These materials cover virtually every major case of human rights abuse and violation worldwide. There are also materials on affiliated armed conflicts such as the Iraq War and the war in Bosnia-Herzegovina; violent ethnic clashes; refugee movements; refugee and detention camps; women's rights; and case studies of human rights abuses.
The Reference and Reports series formed ICTJ's documentation library. The Program and Subject files contain thematically-arranged publications about ICTJ's main subject areas, such as transitional justice and reparations, as well as the programatic materials from ICTJ conferences, workshops, publications, truth commissions, and program divisions. The final series, administrative files, is largely comprised of the files of former ICTJ presidents Alex Boraine and Juan Mendez and other staff files, including Louis Bickford, director of multiple ICTJ units. The staff files and the institutional memory files come together to form the narrative of the creation and work of ICTJ since its beginnings in 2001.
Each series also lists audiovisual materials and digital files. These materials are inserted into the series they correspond with. Formats include Betamax tapes, mini-DVs, DVDs, CDs, VHS tapes, and cassette tapes. The audiovisual materials include trial recordings, staff interviews, conference recordings, and truth commission proceedings; some of these were digitized by ICTJ staff. The born-digital records contain similar materials and also include training materials, ICTJ administrative materials, and program specific documents.
Acquired as part of the Human Rights Archive at Duke University.
The Geographic series, the largest in the collection, is comprised of files representing about 100 countries and forms the backbone of ICTJ's collection. The country files include ICTJ reports, journal articles, publications about governance, rule of law, political stability, reparations, and human rights violations, as well as materials from various country's truth and reconciliation commissions. These materials are unique to each country and provide insight into the impact ICTJ's work has on every citizen, from victims to perpetrators, children and women to ex-combatants.
The multi-continent records contain oversize posters and newspapers collected by ICTJ from several countries across the globe.
Oversize material including newspapers from Afghanistan, Sierra Leone, Zimbabwe, and Ghana and posters from Colombia, East Timor, Germany, Liberia, Kenya, and Latin America.
Each African country contains journal articles and other publications, including ICTJ reports, related to governance, rule of law, political stability, truth and reconciliation, reparations, and human rights violations. Materials are chiefly in English, but these records do contain some materials in French.
Contains articles on multiple African countries.
Includes public hearings, NGO video, and UN directory of African NGOs.
Penal Reform International production
Economic Community of West African States Monitoring Group
Human Rights Commission memorandum on the disappeared; NGO statements on the new commission
ICTJ Justice and Peace Project
A conflict summary and correspondence between ICTJ and the Angolan government about assistance with peacebuilding.
ICTJ trip reports, a framework for ICTJ work in Burundi, articles about peace agreements, UN Security Council Resolution 1545, ICTJ correspondence to Burundi officials, and an International Crisis Group report on elections.
National report on crimes (French), the Tripoli Agreement, and a conflict summary.
International Crisis Group report on Ituri problem and briefing, a conflict summary, peace agreements between Congo, Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda, UN Security Council Resolutions, ICTJ trip reports, DRC needs assessment by ICTJ, "Living with Fear" article, and UN reports, ICJP reports (French).
Draft report of human rights violations in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
UN Security Council Resolutions, ICTJ Criminal Justice Assessment report, ICTJ trip reports, ICTJ mission reports, International Criminal Court reports, ICTJ assessment protocol, UN General Assembly reports, ICTJ country plan, Cote d'Ivoire penal code and military code (French), CDVR and ICTJ country meeting, International Crisis Group report on peacebuilding.
Amnesty International report on human rights in transition, chronology of the reform movement in Eritrea, the Special Court and its role in the Eritrean judicial system, news articles, subject articles, UN Security Council reports, UN General Assembly reports, UN Mission in Eritrea and Ethiopia fact sheet.
African Studies Association of the UK Conference panel "Ethiopia: The Dergue Trials", Amnesty International reports on human rights and the Dergue trials.
Memo from Ludovic Hood to ICTJ about President Omar Albert-Bernard Bongo's regime.
Correspondence from Gambian government informing ICTJ of receipt of annual reports.
Center for Democratic Development (CDD) briefing papers, ICTJ and CDD correspondence, National Reconciliation Commission (NRC) bill, Constitution of Ghana, orders for parliamentary meetings, report of the NRC, NRC informational booklet, international conference on national reconciliation, news articles, correspondence between ICTJ and Ghanan government about reconciliation efforts, ICTJ trip reports, notes about ICTJ involvement in NRC, list of University of Ghana Law faculty alumni, statements by the Ghana attorney general.
Request from ICTJ to the Consulate of Guinea for a travel visa.
Kenya National Committee on Human Rights (KNCHR) progress report on post-election violence, preliminary report on executions and disappearances, KNCHR report on investigations of torture at Mt. Elgon, ICTJ trip reports, Kenya National Dialogue and Reconciliation reports and statements, police reforms, Human Rights Watch articles, feedback forms from a workshop on Kenyan validation, ICTJ Kenya programming, draft bill of the Constitution of Kenya, submissions of the Constitution of Kenya Review Commission to the National Constitutional Conference, proposed adjustments to the Truth and Reconciliation bill, Kenya We Want conference.
Observations on transitional justice in Liberia, ICTJ implementation plans, ICTJ proposal for Truth and Reconciliation Commission in Liberia, ICTJ trip reports, reparations timeline, act to create the Independent National Commission on Human Rights of Liberia, peacebuilding commission creation and implementation, ICTJ mission reports, UN Security Council Resolutions, recommendations to the UN Security Council, International Crisis Group articles and Africa briefing, International Conference for the Reconstruction of Liberia, Constitution of Liberia, ICTJ proposed plan of action, Amnesty International article, Global Rights report on prospects and challenges for human rights protection in Liberia, NGO updates, UN statement on Liberia.
Series of 9 interviews, at the ICTJ office in New York, with three women from Liberia.
Transitional Justice, Justice Reform, and Anti-Corruption Workshop organized by the government of Mali, the government of Qatar, Republic of France, and the UN Development Programme.
US Institute of Peace special report on Morocco Truth and Reconciliation Commission, Kingdom of Morocco Equity and Reconciliation Commission final report volume III, Rabat report, Morocco Human Rights Advisory Council recommendations, ICTJ progress report on transitional justice in Morocco, subject articles, Kingdom of Morocco Ministry of Justice guidebook. Includes materials in Arabic.
Independent oversight report, news reports, Nigeria Human Rights Violations Investigations Commission reports, rulings, and documents, Tribunals of Inquiry Act, Federal Republic of Nigeria Official Gazette, a handbook for the 1999 elections, newspaper clippings, CDD news and reports, ICTJ trip reports, synoptic overview of conclusions and recommendations of the Human Rights Violations Investigation Commission.
Materials all related to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission trials and testimonies.
PBS Frontline World show
"Transition and Reconstruction of Rwanda's Socio-Economic Weave" article, Gacaca genocide articles and recommendations, discussions of punishment of those who participated in genocide, establishment of the Gacaca legislation, UN reports, subject articles about Rwandan Gacaca, Gacaca jurisdiction laws, Official Gazette of the Republic of Rwanda, Penal Reform International (PRI) reports on Gacaca jurisdictions and preparations, news articles, Rapport report, UN International Tribunal for Rwanda project for assistance to victims, International Criminal Tribunal report, ICG report.
International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda
International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda
International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda
Study by PRIDE on ex-combatant views of the TRC, The Sierra Leone Working Group on Truth and Reconciliation report, ICTJ mission reports, ICTJ recommendations, ICTJ trip reports, ICTJ report "The Legacy of the TRC in Sierra Leone", UN Development Programme (UNDP) project to support reconciliation, UN peacekeeping, peace agreements between the government of Sierra Leone and the Revolutionary United Front, human rights cases and child perpetrators article, UNICEF involvement of children in TRC, impact of armed conflict on children report, evaluations of the TRC, National Forum for Human Rights annual report, UNAMSIL report on war related sexual violence, Sierra Leone Ministry of Finance report of the public expenditure tracking survey (PETS), Workmen's Compensation Act of 1969, HIV/AIDS crisis response from the Health Sector, CDC prevalence and behavioral risk factor survey, CDC comprehensive assessment of the HIV/AIDS crisis in Sierra Leone, Witness to Truth report, US Institute of Peace special report, Human Rights Watch briefing paper, news articles, UN press releases, UN Security Council Resolutions, White Paper Report of the TRC, Sierra Leone Bar Association publication, UN appeal to donors, UNAMSIL weekly HRC reports (2003), report from the Freetown Conference on Accountability in Sierra Leone, Special Court indictments, Special Court correspondence with ICTJ, Special Court best practices for protection and support of witnesses, statement takers manuel, Sierra Leone Rule of Law and Justice Sector capacity building project, ICTJ seminar on transitional justice, overview of gender justice, IPU seminar on reconciliation and institutional reform and the role of Parliament.
Articles on the Special Court for Sierra Leone, Special Court reports, UN executive summary of the mission in Sierra Leone, Special Court pre-trial briefs, Special Court motions and acts, President speech before the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC), UNODC mission to Sierra Leone, news articles, preparatory reports for the Special Court, Statistical Appendix to the report on Sierra Leone's TRC, Civil Society Convention handbook, bi-annual IDEA-OHCHR consultation, legal aid articles, statute of the Special Court, Special Court for Sierra Leone Press and Public Affairs Office press clippings, the national vision for Sierra Leone, Commonwealth Human Rights report on the judiciary, UN Mission to Sierra Leone (UNAMSIL) reports and statements, TRC Act of 2000, DFID and World Bank report of the preliminary review of the justice sector.
Special Court for Sierra Leone trials and public outreach.
Armed Forces Revolutionary Council soldiers in Sierra Leone
Invasion of Freetown, Sierra Leone in 1999
MP3 conversions from some of the Sierra Leone Outreach audiocassettes.
International Crisis Group report on Somalian peace, open letter from Amnesty International to the peace talks participants.
Report to the Atlantic Philanthropists, ICTJ proposal to explore the needs for a truth finding process, subject articles, TRC committee reports, White Paper on intelligence, budget for TRC, TRC committee drafts, witness protection establishment reports, TRC informational packets, Khulumani case litigation, ICTJ program work outline, CSVR and ICTJ workshop on access to justice after the TRC, article "Narratives of women from Societies in Transition: A Case Study of the Khulumani Support Group", TRC Gross Violations of Human Rights Statement, TRC and the media report, dissertation on legal protection of social rights, gender and the TRC proposal, organization of the TRC.
Truth Commission and Truth Project reports, as well as victim and amnesty hearings.
South Africa Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) production
Collection of episodes about human rights in South Africa
Institute for Justice and Reconciliation production
South Africa Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) production
South Africa Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) production
Collection of episodes about human rights in South Africa
Collection of episodes about human rights in South Africa
Collection of episodes about human rights in South Africa
Collection of episodes about human rights in South Africa
South Africa Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) production
South Africa Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) production
South Africa Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) production
South Africa Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) production
South Africa Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) production
South Africa Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) production
Collection of episodes about human rights in South Africa
Collection of episodes about human rights in South Africa
Collection of episodes about human rights in South Africa
Collection of episodes about human rights in South Africa
Collection of episodes about human rights in South Africa
Collection of episodes about human rights in South Africa
Collection of episodes about human rights in South Africa
South Africa Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) production
South Africa Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) production
South Africa Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) production
UN press release, ICG reports and briefing on Darfur, UN Security Council Resolution, news articles, Human Rights Watch report on children in the Darfur crisis, peace agreement and implementations proposal between the government of Sudan and the Sudan People's Liberation Movement/Sudan People's Liberation Army (SPLM/SPLA), report from the International Commission on Inquiry on Darfur to the UN Secretary General, Darfur Relief and Documentation Center reports, ICTJ mission reports, draft of guiding principles on reparation in Darfur, White Paper compensation draft, ICTJ workshop on the crisis in Darfur.
report of the fact finding commission on abuses, investigation into women political prisoners, ICTJ mission report, ICTJ briefing notes, CSOs meeting, Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights assessment mission to Tunisia, ICG report, Human Rights Watch report on trials, UN General Assembly draft report, ICTJ trip reports.
Republic of Uganda district development plan, Uganda Law Society review of military justice, International Criminal Court discussion meeting, High Court legal notices and indictments, meeting of ICTJ War Crimes Division, ICTJ recommendations, final report and recommendations of needs assessment mission experts from Uganda's Justice Law and Order sector, UN High Commissioner for Human Rights report, justice and reconciliation project reports, reports and updates from NGOs and global institutes about the state of transitional justice in Uganda, Refugee Law Project working paper, IDP Rapid Assessment, ICG briefing, Republic of Uganda health and mortality survey among internally displaced persons, United Movement to End Child Soldiering exhibition and seminar, Uganda assessment team documents, ICC reports, Uganda Human Rights Commission update, lessons learned article, news articles, testimony transcriptions.
Women's experience in armed conflict and peace processes, as well as a series of 6 interview tapes.
Women's participation
Constitution of Zimbabwe, Justice for Agriculture, post-presidential election documentation of torture, The Zimbabwe Human Rights NGO Forum report on the impact of political violence, labor relations amendment, Electoral Act, access to information and protection of privacy amendment, general laws amendment, report of the South African Observer Mission to the Zimbabwe presidential elections, subject articles, Zimbabwean Government Gazette, ICTJ trip reports, UN Human Rights Commission reports, article about the reform agenda for Zimbabwe, Movement for Democratic Change Justice Committee meetings, Truth Commission bill.
National Youth Service Training and Zimbabwe after the elections.
Each Asian country contains journal articles and other publications, including ICTJ reports, related to governance, rule of law, political stability, truth and reconciliation, reparations, and human rights violations. The material is chiefly in English, but large portions of the records, specifically the Iraqi records, are in Arabic.
Interchange newsletter, International Conference on the Right to Information, background information about south Asian countries, articles about central Asia.
Articles, proposal for a Middle East North Africa (MENA) program at ICTJ, correspondence about establishing a MENA program.
Afghanistan Constitutions, Afghani Penal Code, ICG reports and briefing on Afghanistan, International Peace Academy and US Institute of Peace special report on rule of law, UN Security Council Resolutions, correspondence within ICTJ about peace process in Afghanistan, ICTJ mission reports, ICTJ trip reports, ICTJ field reports, article about women and the rule of law, Human Rights Watch reports, ICTJ Afghan project proposals and reports, Afghanistan High Council of Peace proceedings, Afghanistan Peace and Reintegration Program operational manual, report of human rights abuses, National Security Council documents, country plan and ICTJ program goals, ICTJ reports and briefings on stabilizing Afghanistan, UNDP and World Bank preliminary needs assessment for restabilization, ICTJ briefing notes, Integrity Watch Afghanistan survey, UN documents about witness protection, Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commission documents, subject articles, UN mapping report, UNAMA technical report, International Legal Foundation article about legal aid in Afghanistan, US Commission on International Religious Freedom report on Afghanistan, background documents, subject articles, Amnesty International project reports, UN Commission on Human Rights mission to Afghanistan, UNAMA rule of law updates, Afghanistan Justice Project reports, BBC news report, UNCHR Afghanistan Committee reports, security provisions, accountability for war crimes project, Human Rights Watch reports on human rights violations, meeting of experts on Afghanistan.
Articles, news articles, UNHRC reports, Human Rights Watch report on abuse and denial.
Intelligence oversight mechanisms, International Peace Academy report on truth and war crimes, ICTJ work on setting up a TRC in Bangladesh, International Crimes Tribunal documents.
ICTJ Immunity clause, plan of action for child soldiers, discussion paper "Building a Bridge to Democracy in Burma", Burma assessment reports, UNCHR report on questions of human rights violations, discussion of Belgian assistance to Burma, Burma Lawyers Council report on ethnic/cultural tensions, articles reporting lessons for the future consideration of the Burma Constitution.
Draft proposal for a SOAS-HRW parallel investigation project, War Crimes Research Office recommendations of seven candidates for prosecution, articles about remembering genocide, briefing paper to the Extraordinary Courts of Cambodia, UN Assistance to the Khmer Rouge Trials, ICTJ report on transitional justice in Cambodia, UNESCO article, Cambodian Human Rights Action Committee workshop on reparations, Khmer Rouge Trial articles, UN/UNHRC documents, Asia Society program on justice in Cambodia, draft agreement between the UN and the government of Cambodia concerning prosecutions for crimes committed under the Khmer Rouge regime, law of the establishment of the Extraordinary Courts of Cambodia, articles on the history of Cambodia and conflict, legal issues within the Extraordinary Chambers, UN report of the Secretary General, national workshop on legal and judicial reform, Documentation Center of Cambodia report on crimes covered under the Extraordinary Chambers, Khmer Institute article, British Embassy report on child soldiers.
Public forum on justice and reconciliation.
Article about challenges on criminal justice in China, assessment of NED supported China projects, report of the Human Rights Research Strategy Group, human rights in China publication list.
Office of the Deputy General Prosecutor for Serious Crimes: Timor Leste Serious Crimes Unit background, East Timor constitution, International Court of Justice cases, subject articles, news articles, International Justice Mechanisms for East Timor, Judicial System Monitoring Programme reports, statement taking forms, The Asia Foundation survey, UNMISET strategic plan for the Timor justice sector, TRC funding proposal, International Legal Assistance Consortium report, CAVR report, Australian Legal Resources International article, The East Timor Estafeta, report to the UN Secretary General, East Timor stickers and greeting cards, legal opinion regarding the justice sector, Watch Indonesia article, UNDP mission report, ICTJ mission report, UNMISET transitional rules of criminal procedure, documents from Timor PRP, CAVR public hearings, ICTJ trip reports, UN Security Council reports, national office organization, TRC funders, ICTJ staff correspondence about East Timor TRC, official government communication between East Timor and other countries, ICTJ legal perspectives investigation and research, project proposals for the support of ICTJ in East TImor, TRC methodology, issues of CAVR, TRC procedures. Box 143 contains photos of the Timor-Leste Community Reconciliation Ceremony.
Conflict resolution in East Timor.
1984 Genocide Coalition reports and articles, intelligence reports, conflict timeline, ICTJ document on human rights issues in India.
ICTJ establishment of a TRC in Indonesia, Ford Foundation Technical Assistance Team report on key conclusions on the proposed TRC of Indonesia, commentary on the proposed TRC, RFA report, briefing material for the International Crimes Tribunal, subject articles, Indonesian Human Rights law, challenges to the TRC, trial overviews, UN reports, Indonesia Human Rights Campaign articles, Republic of Indonesia Act concerning human rights, ICTJ trip reports, ACEH role in transitional justice, ICTJ report on mapping transitional justice initiative in Indonesia, ICTJ reports on amnesty.
Series of videos in Indonesian.
National Commission on Violence Against Women production
National Commission on Violence Against Women production
National Commission on Violence Against Women production
National Commission on Violence Against Women production
National Commission on Violence Against Women production
National Commission on Violence Against Women production
National Commission on Violence Against Women production
National Commission on Violence Against Women production
National Commission on Violence Against Women production
National Commission on Violence Against Women production
"Illusion and Reality of Civil Society in Iran" article reprinted from Social Research.
Baghdad Penal Code, Criminal Procedure: A Worldwide Study, Trials of War Criminals before the Nuerenberg Tribunals, Penal Code with amendments, Law on Criminal Proceedings with amendments, Iraqi judiciary and justice system, UNAMI contracts, essays from War Crimes Law, reparations articles, Iraqi National Congress correspondence with ICTJ, US Institute of Peace special reports, ICTJ analysis of Iraq, blueprint report on establishing rule of law, news articles, Iraq and ICTJ meetings, establishment of the Iraqi High Tribunal, UNAMI workshop on transitional justice, UN Security Council Resolutions, focus group interviews about human rights (8 folders), subject articles, Transitional Justice Strategies in Iraq ICTJ Roundtable, Amman reparations conference, Iraq IDPs and refugee UN workshop, draft analysis report by ICTJ, Human Rights Center Berkeley, and Payson Center for International Development Tulane "Iraq: Human Rights Violations, Transitional Justice, and Social Reconstruction Priorities", ICTJ Roundtable with Higher Council for Reparations, ICTJ Roundtable on Future Directions in Iraq, De Ba'athification case study drafts, US Agency for International Development report on mass graves, UN report on cases of the missing and disappeared, reports on genocide in Iraq, World Bank report, Iraqi Constitution, The Iraq Study Group report, meeting to discuss sectarian violence, UN Security Council reports, Case Western Law documents, reparations articles, Iraq finances and budget, Iraq Criminal Procedure Code, transitional justice seminar, UNAMI survey, UN and ICTJ workshop meeting notes, Kirkuk media monitoring, UMANI contract modification, UNAMI reparations workshop, De Ba'athification laws. Includes materials in Arabic.
Establishment of the Iraqi High Tribunal, IHT statement on victims rights, IHT statute and statute comments, IHT statement on killings and security, Human Rights Watch reports, Amnesty International reports, revised statute of the IHT, IHT training by ICTJ, IHT media coverage, IHT articles, IHT briefing papers and reviews, IHT rules, procedures, and evidence procedures, IHT-ICTJ meeting, Law of the IHT, correspondence and notes about reparations, Groatian moment, IHT Defense Office submission concerning Saddam Hussein.
Anfal Trial updates, Anfal chamber highlights, Anfal charging instruments, closing statements, defense submissions, appeal judgement, key documents, ICTJ report drafts, Anfal evidence, Anfal trial observer mission report, Anfal verdict (4 folders).
Anfal trial transcripts and trial video recordings.
Case A1
Case A4
Case A5
Case A6
Case A7
Case A8
Case A9
Case A10
Case A11
Case A2
Case A12
Case A13
Case A3
Dujail session notes, Dujail Trial key documents, Dujail judgement, media pool report, ICTJ and Human Rights Watch translation of Dujail Trial Chamber judgement, Dujail trial summaries, observations, and comments, media pool reports, BBC reports, news articles, external reports, Dujail appeal judgement, commentary and news reports, ICTJ briefing papers, verdicts and sentencing in Dujail, trial transcript, Human Rights Watch analysis, ICTJ judgement analysis, "Dujail: Trial and Error?" briefing paper, ICTJ trial summaries, Dujail media monitoring project, Dujail Trial Supplementary Docs vol. 1-3, Dujail Trial Original Green Dossier Index, Dujail Trial Original Green Dossier. Includes materials in Arabic.
Dujail trial transcripts, video recordings, and Saddam Hussein trial video recordings.
Case D1
Case D3
Case D4
Case D5
Case D6
Case D2
missing 3 sessions
Trial of Saddam Hussein at Dujail
Trial of Saddam Hussein at Dujail
Trial of Saddam Hussein at Dujail
Trial of Saddam Hussein at Dujail
Trial of Saddam Hussein at Dujail
Trial of Saddam Hussein at Dujail
Materials related to Iraqi citizens voices, including the Iraq Memory Program.
photographs of the event
series of 5 DVDs in Arabic
series of 5 DVDs in Arabic
series of 5 DVDs in Arabic
series of 5 DVDs in Arabic
series of 5 DVDs in Arabic
The Iraq Memory Foundation
ICTJ proposal for a reconciliation initiative between Israelis and Palestinians, meeting with human rights activists, transitional justice seminar, articles about Israeli-Palestinian peace agreements, "Preliminary Submission of the Palestine Liberation Organization to the International Commission of Inquiry", report of the Sharm el-Sheikh fact-finding committee, UN Security Council meetings, reparations proposals, Israel's' compensation law, UN General Assembly reports, Human Rights Watch report "Palestinians' Right to Return."
Article about sex slavery in Japan, report on the legal approach to the "Comfort Women Issue," UN University.
correspondence concerning the UN mission in Iraq.
Articles about disappearances and missing persons.
Lebanon Special Tribunal project budgets, Special Tribunal media workshop notes, UN Security Council resolutions and adoptions, analysis of statutory provisions by the Special Tribunal, UN Security Council Investigation Commission, Lebanon Amnesty laws, UN correspondence to ICTJ, UN-Lebanon agreement to set up a special tribunal, comparison of the Lebanon Special Tribunal to the Iraqi Special Tribunal, ICTJ trip report, article about truth seeking in Lebanon, Lebanon Summer Intensive, ICTJ and UNAM workshop. Includes materials in Arabic.
in Malay
News articles, analysis of the Nepalese election, Nepali Times issue, ICTJ reports about violence against women, Nepalese government commission on enforced disappeared persons, decision from the government to petitioners whose families were victims of human rights abuses.
Directory of Individuals and Institutions in South Asian Strategic Studies.
House Bill 1319, NGO report on the Philippine government's implementation of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.
Documentary on martial law in the Philippines.
Report of conflict and human rights violations, subject articles, Intelligence Service Project reports, Constitution of the Russian Federation.
New office checklist, ICTJ report on the reasons to establish a TRC, application for registration under the Charitable Trusts Act.
ICTJ Sri Lanka project report, newsletter of the National Peace Council of Sri Lanka, documents on the Sri Lankan peace process, Sri Lankan intelligence oversight mechanisms, news articles, ICTJ trip reports, ICTJ project proposals, ICES Colombo annual report, Amnesty International article about lessons learned, report of the UN General Secretary's Panel of Experts on Accountability in Sri Lanka, ICTJ mission report, People's Tribunal on Sri Lanka.
Human Rights Data Analysis group report on killings in Syria, UN fact finding commission on Syria report on Human Council resolutions, Syrian Center for Political and Strategic Studies roadmap for Syrian transitional justice.
South China Morning post article about memorials in Taiwan.
International Crisis Group report on coup impact and Thailand's emergency decree, overview of crisis and events.
Articles and reports about justice and the Turkish-Armenian genocide.
News and articles about human rights conditions in this Indonesian province.
Each European country contains journal articles and other publications, including ICTJ reports, related to governance, rule of law, political stability, truth and reconciliation, reparations, and human rights violations. Large portions of the European records also deal with ICTJ partnerships with European nations.
Atlantic Philanthropies draft report, European Union involvement, articles on multiple European countries.
A discussion of the European human rights system.
article on the Armenian problem within international law.
Austrian Development Agency donations and conversations with ICTJ
Reparations reports, US Institute of Peace special report, TRC evaluations, ICTJ country reports, ICTJ mission reports, budget strategy for the Balkans, involvement of ICTJ in TRC, strategy reports.
Protection of human rights in a civil society publication.
Discussions between ICTJ and the Belgium government about donations to support ICTJ in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Background report on conflict, legal implementation and reforms, war crimes project, domestic prosecutions report.
Materials related to the massacre at Srebenica and the court of Bosnia and Herzegovina's implementation project plan.
BBC
Draft Annex I: creation of a reconciliation commission.
EU seminar, articles about reparations, American Bar Association concept paper on issues for criminal procedure, intelligence services reports.
Danish Institute for Human Rights contributions to ICTJ.
Ministry for Foreign Affairs of Finland contributions to ICTJ, development of global truth commissions.
Development coordination in France.
Contributions to ICTJ, reparations reports, transitional justice in East Germany, news articles, Germany-Israel Agreement, law for victims of Nazi persecution, Bundestag Enquete-Kommission, German Federal Government Action Plan and prosecution of Nazi war criminals, Germany after Nazism articles, German intelligence reports.
Development of a fellowship program, reparations reports.
Healing Through Remembering project, loyalist parliamentary murders, Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission reports, prosecutions, victims' rights, Sentencing Act, ICTJ trip reports, subject articles, reconciliation and healing projects, Irish aid to Timor and Liberia, Belfast conference, Atlantic Philanthropists reports. Box 143 contains photos from a trip to Northern Ireland.
Workshop on transitional justice and how Italy can help its closest neighbors, Italian vocabulary, contributions to ICTJ.
ICTJ mission in Kosovo, legal system analysis, UN and UNICEF programs in Kosovo, UN Security Council reports and resolution.
Article: Latvian Prison Administration transfer to the Department of the Interior.
Contributions to ICTJ, invitation to ICTJ to attend a conference, permanent mission of Liechtenstein to the UN.
Contributions to ICTJ.
Information about the new Minister for Foreign Investment.
Contributions to ICTJ, the Netherlands Quarterly of Human Rights issue, invitations to conferences, ICTJ speaking opportunities in the Netherlands.
Contributions to ICTJ, grant programs, cooperative agreement with ICTJ.
Intelligence services.
Open Society Justice Initiative report on the impact of ICTY, news articles, peace strategy, ICTJ project information, articles about justice in Serbia.
Reports on transitional justice in Spain, subject articles, conflict background information, ICTJ project proposal, correspondence about permanent work of UN in Spain, ICTJ report "Justicia Transicional en Espana."
Intelligence oversight report, contributions to ICTJ, Swedish National Defence College conference.
Contributions to ICTJ, attendance at conferences, correspondence about conference attendance.
Intelligence oversight reports, DFID participation.
ICTJ country report and forecast, transitional justice in Ukraine, human rights in Ukraine, European Commission for Implementation, UN report on human rights in Ukraine.
Conflict in Yugoslavia, ICTY in Yugoslavia report, articles about Yugoslavian conflict, special reports, letters to President Kostunica and members of the TRC from ICTJ.
Milosevic Trial and judgements.
2 discs
International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia
International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia
International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia
International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia
International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia
International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia
International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia
International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia
International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia
International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia
International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia
International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia
International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia
Each North American and Caribbean country contains journal articles and other publications, including ICTJ reports, related to governance, rule of law, political stability, truth and reconciliation, reparations, and human rights violations. Canadian Truth Commission, as well as the Mexican Attorney General's investigation of corruption, make up the majority of the North American/Caribbean records.
Legacy of Hope Foundation, institutional child abuse article, Six Nations Confederacy response to development in Brantford, workshops on telling the truth about Indian Residential Schools, Metis National Council list of indigenous groups seeking truth and reconciliation, University of Calgary Conference on truth and reconciliation, Chinese Canadians seeking reparations articles, ICTJ program overview, ICTJ trip reports, Assembly of First Nations legal proceedings, CIDA meeting reports, Canadian contributions to ICTJ, ICTJ meetings with the Assembly of First Nations, constitution acts, International Law of Human Rights in Canada, background reports on residential schools, legacy of residential schools project plans, task force on aboriginal languages and cultures report, Windsor Yearbook of Access to Justice--section about reconciliation, articles about Canadian government response to aboriginal schools, proposal for truth-telling initiative, discussion of TRC mandate for residential schools, Royal Commission on Aboriginal People report, Aboriginal Healing Foundation research reports, National Day of Healing and Reconciliation materials, TRC briefing documents, Canada TRC meeting, Human Rights Research and Education bulletin issue.
Cincinnati Collaborative Project research findings video
Canada
Articles and background about Cuba, analysis of abuse in Cuba.
National Democratic Institute for International Affairs production
Evaluation of the TRC in Grenada.
UN Security Council meetings, correspondence and reports on vetting with the UN Mission to Haiti, Pierre Kessler Paul's documents on seeking political asylum, ICTJ mission reports, Human Rights Watch report, ICTJ report on fighting impunity in Haiti.
ICTJ trip reports, training by ICTJ in Mexico, CIDH documents, ICTJ research on truth telling and rule of law in Mexico, articles about truth telling in Mexico, news articles, report on catalyzing dialogue about transitional justice.
PGR Vol. 1-5.
1898 Wilmington race riot report.
Materials related to the Greensboro, NC massacre and truth commission.
Greensboro
Each Central/South American country file contains journal articles and other publications, including ICTJ reports, related to governance, rule of law, political stability, truth and reconciliation, reparations, and human rights violations. Box 33 contains the legal sized materials for Chile and Guatemala.
Centro de Derechos Humanos workshop, Argentina and Chile TRC reports, article on the defense of public apologies, article "Latin America's Smiling Mask."
Partnership agreement with the Center for Legal and Social Studies project "Domestic Prosecution and Torture Prevention in Argentina," transition of democracy article, discussion of rights and human rights in Argentina.
Project for technical cooperation, Latin American Network for Transitional Justice (LANTJ) meetings, creation of Brazil TRC meetings and strategy, articles about TRC, timeline of conflict and events, draft proposal of an assessment of transitional justice opportunities in Brazil, ICTJ mission assessment, Ministerio Publico Federal documents and investigations. Also includes UNDP Brazil Project documents from the Truth and Memory project.
Legal brief of incompatibility of Chilean law and international law, articles and declarations, international law after Pinochet article, report of the TRC, correspondence to and from ICTJ staff about speaking arrangements in Chile, Exonerados, article "The Pinochet Case: International and Domestic Repercussions," Aporte al Desarrollo de la Democracia seminar, newspaper clippings, Commission Etica Contra la Tortura, 1989 Programa de Gobierno, Ley no. 19.123, salud y derechos humanos articles, objective of the TRC, Chile Health Program, CNRR report of activities, Exilio report.
Historia de la Ley 19.074, 19.055, 19.128, 19.234, 19.582, 18.994, 19.740, Informe Mensual.
Seminar on returned exiles, newspaper clippings vol. 1-4, Memoria Ministeria de Justicia, Decreto Supreme no. 1005, Memoria Annal, Carta Informativa, Informe de Actividades, Camara de Disputados.
ICTJ program notes, correspondence about workshops in Colombia, UN reports, ICTJ capacity building workshop, articles about truth processes and conflicts, articles about the roles of gender in justice, WOLA conference report, Human Rights Watch article, UNCHR report on human rights situation in Colombia, international seminar on peace processes and transition, Colombia's Ley de Alternatividad and comments by NGOs, transitional justice recommendations, legal issues and suggestions for law modification, article "Voices of Girl Child Soldiers in Colombia," US Institute of Peace special report, ICTJ trip reports, articles about violence in Colombia, ICTJ transitional justice workshop, Bogota office strategic planning, ICTJ mission reports, restorative justice and peace symposium, Colombia extraditions notes, Swiss peace working paper assessing possibilities for further Swiss contributions.
Subject articles, justice for victims conference, laws and legal works, correspondence about an exploratory visit by ICTJ to El Salvador, proposal for educational events, US Institute of Peace report, recommendations from TRC.
UN report on Guatemala, subject articles, ICTJ training in international human rights law, Programa Nacional de Resarcimiento strategic plan for Guatemalan reparations, Dicatmen files, reparation program, MINUGA reports, correspondence about attending events in Guatemala, article "Guatemala: Memory of Silence," commission from the government of Guatemala to clarify past human rights violations and acts of violence, ICTJ mission reports, the historical memory project, consitution and penal code, peace accords, San Martin Jilotepeque committee, Rabinal research, project overview of post-war Guatemala, laws of reconciliation, SEPAZ documents and evaluation, FEMDEGUA report, El Deber de Resarcir article, press clippings, Guatemalan legal internship essay, reports on Guatemalan human rights and transitional justice, UN and ICTJ meeting about Guatemalan TRC, ICTJ case studies and lessons to be learned for Guatemala, DIGAP protection proposition, legal prosecution and penal code in Guatemala, report about the implementation of a national research program, ICTJ program reports, CIDH reparations rulings and the integration of those rulings, reports and correspondence about Guatemalan programs, reparations plan.
Órdenes Generales, CEH Memoria del Silencio.
US Department of State Foreign Relations
ICTJ report "Dealing with the Past in Nicaragua," ICTJ trip report.
Summary of the TRC final report.
Paraguay truth commission.
Peruvian penal code, ICTJ program report, disappearances, transitional justice lessons from Peru, Peruvian Navy personnel files, seminar from the Instituto de Derechos Humanos, lectures, Ministerio de Salud documents, Ministerio de Defensa documents, maps and report on deaths and disappearances, ICTJ recommendation for implementation in Peru, Fujimori case, CVR pamphlets, Oxfam: Saschacuy Tiempo, Estoy Recordando materials and buttons, CNDDHH and CVR backgrounder, correspondence about CVR, ICTJ trip agenda, ICTJ meeting notes.
Program no. 8
Program no. 4
program no. 23
TRC update.
In addition to the hands-on work they do, ICTJ has a robust research unit captured in the Reference and Reports Series. These materials were collected by ICTJ and formerly housed in their Documentation Center and Library at their New York headquarters. The publications include annual reports from human rights NGOs as well as thematic publications about children and women in conflict, displacement, refugees, disappearances, human trafficking, judicial reform, economic issues, security and conflict analysis, genocide and torture, accountability and human rights.
Global publications includes an annual report sub-series containing annual reports from human rights NGOs, followed by publications aligning with major research themes from the ICTJ. The final two sections of this series are the human rights publications serials sub-series and the human rights publications sub-series. The human rights serials sub-series contains reports from NGOs, universities, and other human rights organizations that published more than two consecutive journals, newsletters, or bulltins. The human rights publications sub-series contains reports from NGOs, universities and human rights organizations, but are singular publications.
Includes annual reports collected by ICTJ from human rights groups. Groups include Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, Carnegie Council on Ethics and International Affairs, International Center for Human Rights and Democratic Development, International Council on Human Rights, Human Rights Watch, International Legal Assistance Consortium, Human Rights Center at University of California-Berkeley, International Crisis Group, Conciliation Resources, and the Association for the Prevention of Torture.
Coordinadora Nacional de Derechos Humanos annual reports CDs.
Includes reference material from the International Center for Ethnic Studies, the US Department of Labor, UNICEF, UN Office of the Special Representative of the Secretary General for Children and Armed Conflict, and the Global Protection Center Cluster Child Protection Working Group.
Includes reference material from Linking Solidarity Against Enforced Disappearances, UN Department of Peacekeeping Operations, the Brookings Institution, and the Hafiza Merkezi Truth and Justice Memory Center.
Includes reference material from Transition International, the World Bank, Open Justice Initiative, Geneva Center for Democratic Control of Armed Forces, Due Process of Law Foundation, UN Security Council, UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, and the International Peace Institute.
Includes reference material from the US Institute of Peace, SIDA, UN Emergency Peace Service, Human Security Centre, UN Security Council, and the International Peace Institute.
Includes reference material from the Coalition of International Non-Governmental Organizations Against Torture, Redress Trust, Center for Holocaust and Genocide Studies (Amsterdam), Center for Victims of Human Torture, and the UN Development Programme.
Serials from Combat Law Human Rights magazine, American University College of Law Human Rights Brief, Humanitarian Policy Group, International Development Information Centre, International Peace Academy, and the United States Institute of Peace.
Includes human rights publications collected by ICTJ. Groups include the Aspen Institute Justice and Society program, UN Chronicle, Open Society News, International Council on Human Rights Policy, The Carter Center, Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, Interights Bulletin, Human Rights Watch, Harvard Magazine, International Bar News, Charles Stewart Mott Foundation "Mott Mosaic," FRIDE, Human Rights Media Center, Humanity in Action, and Foreign Affairs magazine.
Institute for Justice and Reconciliation survey of reconciliation and truth CD and truth commissions in Uganda and Haiti CD.
doctoral thesis
The publications in the Africa series are from NGOs, universities, and other human rights organizations and include materials about children and women in conflict, displacement, refugees, disappearances, human trafficking, judicial reform, economic issues, security and conflict analysis, genocide and torture, accountability and human rights.
Center for Democracy and Development (CDD) publications.
"Talking to Arab Youth: Revolution and Counterrevolution in Egypt and Tunisia" book, Human Rights Watch report on West African regional warriors, Outside the Dream postcards.
Refugee Studies Center Forced Migration Review magazine, Southern African Migration Project report on HIV and food security in Southern and Eastern Africa.
All Africa Conference on African principles of conflict resolution and reconciliation, Institute for Justice and Reconciliation report, International Peace Academy report, "Ni Guerra, Ni Paz" book about reconciliation in the Saharan region, FRIDE working paper on transition in Somalia and Uganda, African Union Commission consultation with African Union member states.
International Anti-Corruption Conference proceedings, The Critic magazine, Global Facilitation Network report, West Africa Weekly publication, UN Office on Drugs and Crime report, International Peace Institute report.
FRIDE working paper on Angolan governance.
Global Rights Magazine: Global Rights Voices "Burundi's Land Crisis."
Nouveaux Droits de l'Homme informational publications for citizens about voting and fair elections.
Women's rights, Ituri Disarmament program assessment, and "Living with Fear" publication.
Special Prosecutor's Report from the Special Prosecutor's Office and working paper on assistance to post-conflict Ethiopia. In Amharic.
CDD annual reports; CDD report of national reconciliation conference; CDD research paper about public opinion on reconciliation in Ghana; CDD workshop and research paper about military-civil relationships; CDD reports, newsletters and publications on Coalition of Domestic Election Observers report, Commission on Human Rights and Administrative Justice report, and reports on religion and politics in Ghana.
Guyana Human Rights Association submissions.
Kenya Human Rights Commission reports and publications.
Summary of the Constitution of Kenya Review Commission proposals, report of the Constitution of Kenya Review Commission.
Transparency International Kenya newsletter about why Kenya needs a truth and reconciliation commission, Kenya Transitional Justice Network summary of the TRC, Amani Club Guidelines booklet.
Liberia National Law Enforcement Association review of the criminal justice system, Ministry of Foreign Affairs acts, International Crisis Group report, International Legal Assistance Consortium report.
International Peace Academy report about civil society's role in national reconciliation and peacekeeping, the World Bank social development paper about community cohesion in Liberia.
Summary of the final report of the Commission Nationale pour la Vérité, l'équité et la Réconciliation, bibliography of human rights violations in Morocco, annual report of the human rights situation in Morocco, protection of refugees, Informe final of La Verdad y La Responsabilidad Relativas a las Violaciones.
UN Development Programme report on the reintegration of demobilized soldiers.
Annual reports on the state of human rights in Nigeria.
Liberty Magazine, Constitutional Rights Journal, CDD News Quarterly Journal, Electoral Reform Network input into the electoral bill, the murder of Dele Giwa book, Religion and Society magazine, Tell magazine.
CDD News Quarterly Journal report on the the second Nigerian Women's Leadership Workshop, British Council report on promoting women's rights in northern Nigeria.
All Parliamentary Group on Rwanda, the Great Lakes, and the prevention of genocide, Women Waging Peace Policy Commission report on women's role in Rwanda's transition.
Sierra Leone Law Review, National Forum for Human Rights report, Justice Sector Development Program, the World Bank Social Development paper on community driven development in post-conflict Sierra Leone, FRIDE working paper, the code of conduct for judicial officers of the Republic of Sierra Leone.
The Special Court for Sierra Leone preliminary comments, annual reports, best practices for witnesses and victims, legacy of the court, and outreach. Judges of the SCSL visit to the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, War Crimes Studies Center report on the SCSL, Human Rights Watch report on the SCSL
National Commission for Democracy and Human Rights report on the TRC, UN Mission to Sierra Leone compilation of articles about the Sierra Leone TRC, TRC working group pamphlet, ICTJ and National Forum for Human Rights "Citizen's Handbook" on the TRC.
CSVR violence and transition publication series.
Open Society Institute report on building the new South Africa, creating and curating Cape Town.
A guide to facing the truth on PBS, Center for the Study of Violence and Reconciliation (CSVR) reports and publications, Foundation for Human Rights pamphlet, film study guide, truth and reconciliation in times of conflict lecture.
Human Rights Media Center "If Trees Could Speak: The Trojan Horse Story."
Internal displacement and minority rights.
Final report of the human rights commission.
Oxfam country profile.
Concerned Parents Association Uganda pamphlet, LIU Institute for Global Issues report, Berkeley-Tulane initiative on vulnerable populations.
The Constitution of the Republic of Uganda, Refugee Law Project working paper, summary report of the development of a conflict resolution policy for the government of Uganda.
Pearl of Blood summary report of the Uganda Commission of Inquiry into the violation of human rights, Human Rights Focus publication, developments at the International Criminal Court, update on the implementation of the recommendations made by the UN Secretary General's representative on internally displaced persons following his visit to Uganda.
Zimbabwe working draft Constitution, Zimbabwe Human Rights Bulletin Issue 1, Zimbabwe National Committee on Community Service report on community service in practice.
International Crisis Group report on Zimbabwe transition and conflict, Solidarity Peace Trust overview of youth militia, Redress Trust report on the upcoming election, Doctors without Borders publication "Alert" about Zimbabwe's Cholera outbreak.
The publications in the Asia series are from NGOs, universities, and other human rights organizations and include materials about children and women in conflict, displacement, refugees, disappearances, human trafficking, judicial reform, economic issues, security and conflict analysis, genocide and torture, accountability and human rights.
UN Secretary General on the Human Rights of Internally Displaced Persons report on displacement after natural disasters, UC Berkeley report on human rights after the Southeast Asian tsunami.
Report on women in the Arab world, annotated bibliography on women in conflict.
Georgetown Southeast Asia survey, FRIDE working paper about democracy in the Middle East.
Annual reports, "A Call for Justice" publication, and a magazine about human rights violations.
UNICEF reports.
International Crisis Group report on judicial reform, Center for Humanitarian Dialogue report on assistance to justice in Afghanistan.
International Crisis Group report, Asia Society report, report on Afghanistan's opium industry, reports about the rebuilding of a "new" Afghanistan.
United States Commission on International Religious Freedom report on Afghanistan.
Liberation War Museum publications and film festival.
Technical Advisory Network of Burma working papers on democracy, impunity, and armed forces under civilian rule.
Publications about the process of reconciliation. In Khmer.
Searching for the Truth magazines and bound volumes.
Open Justice Initiative report on the Extraordinary Chambers, an overview of the Extraordinary Chambers by the UN, and ICC justice project. Includes materials in Khmer.
Reports on women's roles in post-conflict rebuilding, international assistance to Cambodia, Cambodian International Center for Conciliation publication on dealing with past injustices, CLEAN publication "Our Country, Our Future" about fighting corruption.
Human Rights protections in China's criminal law procedures.
Minority Rights Group International report on marginalization in China, Human Rights in China report on the elimination of racial discrimination in China.
UC Berkeley special reports on accountability and transitional justice.
Human Development report and FRIDE report on building democracy and justice in East Timor.
Bergdorf Research Center for Constructive Conflict Management report on the developments of the Free Aceh Movement.
Impunity in Indonesia.
Iraq Body Count, Kurdistan Regional Government Ministry of Martyrs and Anfal Affairs keeping track of the Kurdish genocide. Materials in Arabic.
Minority Rights Group International report, Iraq History Project testimonies, Forced Migration Review, Women for Women International report on stronger women and stronger nations.
Freedom Forum at University of Notre Dame report on winning without war, Council on Foreign Affairs report "Iraq: The Day After."
"A Study on Jerusalem" by His Royal Highness Crown Prince Hassan bin Talal.
Essays on change and innovation by Prince Hassan bin Talal.
Human rights and minority rights in Jammu and Kashmir.
Confronting the legacy of political violence in Lebanon.
Mongolian miners human rights.
Children in armed conflict pictorial report.
Task Force Detainees of the Philippines report on impunity, Philippine Alliance of Human Rights Advocates Human Rights Report.
Issue paper for the National Preparatory Conference of Philippine NGOs on Women Development "Women, War, and Peacemaking in the Philippines, Asian Muslim Action Network in the Philippines report on community based and development oriented education.
Memorial Human Rights Center reports on the conditions of detainees by Russia, Russian use of civilians as hostages during the Chechnya War.
Human rights in modern Russia.
Human Rights First publication about human rights and counterterrorism in Thailand.
Human Rights First publication about human rights and counterterrorism in Uzbekistan.
Frank Cass Journal "McNamara's Failures and Ours: Vietnam's Unlearned Lessons."
The publications in the Europe series are from NGOs, universities, and other human rights organizations and include materials about disappearances, judicial reform, economic issues, security and conflict analysis, genocide and torture, accountability and human rights.
EU Annual Report on Human Rights, NGOs in Europe, regional conference on fighting corruption in Eastern Europe, Europe's World Journal, Europe-Palestine relations, anti-semitism in Europe, Europe and Islam, ethno nationalism, women's empowerment in an expanding Europe.
Justice and truth, ICG report on rule of law.
Roundtable on negotiating conflict settlements.
Development Cooperation Ireland annual report, Healing through Remembering project, peace and justice in Ireland, and Relatives for Justice newsletters.
Human rights violations and political killings, the judicial system.
Danish Institute for Human Rights annual report and Global Forum on Fighting Corruption and Safeguarding Integrity final report.
Norwegian politics in the Middle East.
"Truths, Responsibilities, and Reconciliation: The case of Serbia."
Terrorism and democracy in Spain.
Swedish Foundation for Human Rights annual report and Swedish Helsinki Committee for Human Rights annual report.
Swiss Peace publications.
Transitional Justice Institute at University of Ulster newsletters.
International Criminal Tribunal report from NGOs.
The publications in the North America/Carribean series are from NGOs, universities, and other human rights organizations and include materials about children and women in conflict, judicial reform, economic issues, security and conflict analysis, accountability and human rights.
Organization of American States Inter-American Commission on Human Rights annual report.
Aboriginal Healing Foundation Research Series reports, Legacy of Hope Foundation publications, directory of residential schools, and mental health profiles of residential school victims.
Transatlantic Quarterly journal issues.
Publications about residential schools and event programs.
Desafios publications and US-Cuba relations.
International Legal Assistance Consortium report, Woodrow Wilson Center Update on the Americas newsletter about governance and security, The Center for Justice and Accountability newsletter about massacre survivors.
Human rights and drug related violence, hemispheric security in Mexico.
Head start education, human rights and Guantanamo, poverty and human rights issues in the United States, terrorism and the aftermath of 9/11, Teaching Tolerance magazines.
The publications in the Central/South America series are from NGOs, universities, and other human rights organizations and include materials about children and women in conflict, displacement, refugees, disappearances, human trafficking, judicial reform, economic issues, security and conflict analysis, genocide and torture, accountability and human rights.
Latin American Video Archives catalog.
Latin American Studies Association forum reports.
ReVista magazine from the Harvard Review of Latin America.
Washington Office on Latin America (WOLA) publications.
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars Latin America Program publications.
Affirmative action, indigenous peoples rights, report on 30 years of human rights in Latin America.
Judicial independence in Latin America, creating legal systems that keep human rights at the forefront.
Andean region prison reform.
Women's rights in Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Uruguay, and Paraguay.
Argentine Forensic Anthropology Team reports and Universidad Nacional de San Martin publications.
Justice in Argentina, genocide, and memory keeping.
Commission on Amnesty reports.
Brazilian Declaration of Universal Human Rights, report on political extremism and human rights.
Book about political missing or killed persons by Brazilian government, commission of inquiry into missing citizens.
Relatorio publication about violence towards Brazil's indigenous population.
Final report of the National Reparation and Reconciliation Commission.
Prosecutions of human rights defenders in Colombia, penal persecution of the forced displacement offenders.
Analysis of the state of freedom of expression in Colombia.
Señas magazine.
Colombia, Europe, and the United States cooperation on human rights.
Land restitution on Colombia's Caribbean coast.
ICG report on Colombia's quest for peace, report on the internal conflict in Colombia, Libros de Cambio books about seeking peace in Colombia.
Reparations for victims of human rights violations, the ICC's role in Colombian reparations.
Children in armed conflict, women and children in social-political violence.
Informe Alternativo "Derechos Económicas, Sociales y Culturales."
Human rights violations, justice and peace in democratic transition, Truth and Reconciliation Commission materials.
Human rights violations, Comisión para el Esclarecimiento Histórico (CEH) documentation and reports, peace process and peace accords in Guatemala.
Brochures from various truth seeking organizations.
Caretas magazines.
Displacement from the Ayacucho region, forced displacement and disappearances, legal rights of the displaced.
Ideele publication from the Instituto de Defensa Legal.
Defending justice, economic, social and cultural rights, democracy and reforms, seminar on justice and the truth and reconciliation process, seeking justice in armed conflict.
Police reform in Peru and Organization of the American States "Special Report on the Human Rights Situation at the Challapalca Prison."
Censo por la Paz book, seeking reparations for violations of human rights.
Comisión de Verdad y Reconciliación materials.
Women and sexual violence, testimonies of incarcerated women, seeking reparations for women who are victims of sexual violence.
Carter Center Special Report Series: "The Carter Center and the Peacebuilding Process in Venezuela June 2002-February 2005" and "Observing Venezuela Presidential Recall Referendum."
ICTJ is organized into program units that each focus on a different thematic subject, such as gender, as well as into units by geographic region. Notable programs include the Middle East/North Africa (MENA) Program and the Truth and Reconciliation Commission programs. Also held in this series are copies and preparatory material from ICTJ's in-house publications, including their annual reports, newsletters, and other periodicals and monographs.
Contains files of multiple topics on human rights and international justice, including genocide, children's and women's rights, refugees, democratic process and elections, post-conflict peacebuilding and reconciliation, truth commissions, international prosecutions, the International Criminal Court, and the United Nations.
International Aid and Trade Review.
Amnesty in East Timor, amnesty decree in Tunisia, country overviews.
IPA policy report, conflict barometer, Global Conflict Panorama publication, Israel/Palestine conflict article.
Course from Professor Miguel Angel Centeno at Princeton
Protecting children born of sexual violence, the impact of armed conflict on children, children and truth commissions, child soldiers, International Sexual and Reproductive Rights Coalition materials.
Minority Rights Group International report, corruption articles, Inter American Convention against corruption, survey of ICTJ work on corruption.
Reports on women, peace and security, women and HIV/AIDS, female circumcision, gender and reparations, engendering conflict, improving women's access to justice, peacekeeping and sexual violence.
Gender Montage: Paradigms in Post Soviet Space, Estonia
Gender Montage: Paradigms in Post Soviet Space, Uzbekistan
Gender Montage: Paradigms in Post Soviet Space, Georgia
Gender Montage: Paradigms in Post Soviet Space, Tajikistan
Gender Montage: Paradigms in Post Soviet Space, Ukraine
Gender Montage: Paradigms in Post Soviet Space, Kyrgyzstan
Gender Montage: Paradigms in Post Soviet Space, Mongolia
Gender Montage: Paradigms in Post Soviet Space, Lithuania
Gender Montage: Paradigms in Post Soviet Space, Azerbaijan
Minority Rights Group International report on preventing genocide, crisis in Darfur.
Series of videos on the Holocaust in Spanish.
Human rights defenders, human rights reform, human rights and the interests of justice, Human Rights Council reports, Basic Handbook for Human Rights, transitional justice mapping, Bosnian Book of the Dead database report.
ICC Monitor, ICC Coalition, Insight newsletter, ICC information packets, ICC Coalition members, ICC Victims Rights Working Group, Victims and Witness Unit, Trust Fund for Victims, Prosecution and the ICC, ICC Rome Statute, Commentary on the Rome Statute, selection of the Planet OTP Bulletin.
Holocaust restitution, OCHA Human Rights Law, sanctions, war crimes statute of limitations, universal jurisdiction.
Rule of law in post conflict countries, integrated approach to rule of law, IDEELE publications for the Institute for Legal Defense, UN OHCHR "Rule of Law in Post-Conflict States," OSI Legal Institute.
Truth seeking articles, Right to Truth project, Truth and Memory meeting, Managing Truth Commissions (MTC) meetings, Historical Memory project, naming and transitional justice, memorials.
Defensoria del Pueblo (Peru)
Defensoria del Pueblo (Peru)
FRIDE report on recovering from armed conflict, UN and EU peacebuilding, Lawyers Without Borders publications, protection of victims and witnesses, UN Peacebuilding Commission, transitional justice articles, transitional justice working group, vetting case studies and project proposal, disarmament, demobilization and reintegration (DDR).
tape 1 of 2
Tape 2 of 2
Tribunals and the International Commission of Jurists, the historical function of criminal tribunals, model transitional codes for post conflict criminal justice, Redress Trust report on immunity and accountability, interrelationships between criminal prosecutions and truth commissions, Iraqi Criminal Tribunal materials, Extraordinary Chambers of the Courts of Cambodia materials, trying heads of state, peacebuilding workshops, working group on lessons learned.
Reparations articles, reparations in: Guatemala, South Africa, Brazil, Malawi, Yugoslavia, Peru, Canada, Colombia, Morocco, Sri Lanka, Germany, Chile, Zimbabwe, Chechnya, reparations and gender.
note says it starts at 55 seconds
Refugee Studies Center report, Brookings Institute report on risks, rights, and displacement, USAID assistance to internally displaced persons policy, refugee project, ICRC project on the missing, displacement project proposal.
Film by Marco Williams
ICRC project on the missing
Terrorism and law, UN high level panel on threats, UN Security Council's Counterterrorism program, Guantanamo Bay article.
Truth Commission articles, keeping records of truth commissions, operational guidelines of truth commissions, selection procedures for truth commissions, Derrida Pardon, procedural fairness considerations for truth commissions handbook, truth commissions in: Peru, South Africa, Indonesia, the United States (Greensboro), Mexico, El Salvador, Guatemala, Kenya, Ghana, Uganda, Argentina, Yugoslavia, and Australia.
UN peacekeeping operations, Security Council reports, UN Office of the High Commissioner on Human Rights materials, Responsibility to Protect (R2P), Transparency International recommendations for a UN convention against corruption.
Series of interviews with Special Representatives of the Secretary-General.
UNITAR Series
UNITAR Series
UNITAR Series
UNITAR Series
UNITAR Series
UNITAR Series
UNITAR Series
UNITAR Series
UNITAR Series
UNITAR Series
UNITAR Series
UNITAR Series
UNITAR Series
UNITAR Series
UNITAR Series
UNITAR Series
UNITAR Series
UNITAR Series
Contains files of ICTJ program units including the Americas Program, Middle East/North Africa (MENA), Policymakers program, ICTJ Productions, as well as the Truth and Reconciliation Commissions ICTJ assisted with.
Contains the files of the Americas Program division of ICTJ. The Americas Program's work centers around both North and South American transitional justice issues. Includes Americas Regional meeting, Regional Directors meeting, challenges for transitional justice in the Americas, Country Program Unit (CPU) workplan, Americas Program workplan, Americas Program reports, Americas assistant handover memos.
Contains the files of the Middle East/North Africa program division of ICTJ. Includes human rights in the Iraqi Context interview transcripts (22 folders), Iraq Survey project, Human Rights Watch reports, Amnesty International reports, draft notes on the Iraq Report, human rights in Iraq, security logistics, bringing Iraqi provincial leaders to justice, transitional justice and the US occupation in Iraq, Netherlands development in Iraq, Morocco TRC files, publications on Middle East issues, UNDP Arab Human Development report, development and project proposals, MENA workplan, transitional justice in Sudan, establishment of an ICTJ office in Lebanon. Contains materials in Arabic.
Iraqi High Tribunal documents and videos from MENA.
Contains files of the Policymakers Unit of ICTJ which focuses on international policy and its role in transitional or truth seeking processes. Reports on a grant from Finland, UN General Reference, workplans, strategic plans, and three year vision, policymaking between ICTJ and the EU, the UN's role in conflict resolution, workshops on amnesty and the rule of law.
Contains files of ICTJ Productions, established in 2008 to use film and media to tell the stories of individuals and nations coming to terms with an abusive past. Includes Humanity United grant and proposal, Coke/World Cup project, ICTJ productions powerpoint introduction, Zimbabwe materials, Guzman documentary, agreement between the Sundance Institute and ICTJ, community based theater and transitional justice in Afghanistan, ICTJ Productions goals and background, Web Portal project, "And There in the Dust" scripts, scripts and proposals, "Redemption" film about Desmond Tutu, grant agreements.
ICTJ's work with Pivot Pictures.
Contains the files of Truth Commissions that ICTJ assisted in conducting. Truth Commissions are defined by ICTJ as "temporary, official inquiries established to determine the facts, causes, and consequences of past human rights violations."
Priscilla Hayner and Lisa Magarrell talking about TRCs on WBAI 99.5 FM
Chile CVR (Sur Andino region)
Chile CVR (Sur Andino region)
Ghana NRC
Ghana NRC (dubbed from Betamax tapes)
Ghana NRC
Ghana National Reconciliation Commission (series of 7 tapes)
Ghana National Reconciliation Commission (series of 7 tapes)
Ghana National Reconciliation Commission (series of 7 tapes)
Ghana National Reconciliation Commission (series of 7 tapes)
Ghana National Reconciliation Commission (series of 7 tapes)
Ghana National Reconciliation Commission (series of 7 tapes)
Ghana National Reconciliation Commission (series of 7 tapes)
Ghana NRC
Ghana NRC (dubbed from Betamax tapes)
Ghana NRC
Ghana NRC
Ghana NRC
Ghana NRC
Ghana NRC (dubbed from Betamax tapes)
Ghana NRC
Ghana NRC
Ghana NRC (dubbed from Betamax tapes)
Ghana NRC
Dubbed from Betamax tapes
Ghana NRC
Peru TCR
Ghana NRC
Ghana NRC (dubbed from Betamax tapes)
Ghana NRC
Ghana NRC (dubbed from Betamax tapes)
Ghana NRC
Ghana NRC
Ghana NRC (dubbed from Betamax tapes)
Ghana NRC
Ghana NRC (dubbed from Betamax tapes)
Ghana NRC
Ghana NRC
Ghana NRC (dubbed from Betamax tapes)
Ghana NRC
Guatemalan TRC Final Report
Guatemalan TRC Final Report
Guatemalan TRC Final Report
#6 Former President Moses Z. Blah
#1 Former President Moses Z. Blah
#2 Former President Moses Z. Blah
#3 Former President Moses Z. Blah
#4 Former President Moses Z. Blah
#5 Former President Moses Z. Blah
#26 Sen. Saye Taryor Adolphus Dolo
#15 Lewis G. Brown
#16 Lewis G. Brown
#17 Lewis G. Brown
#18 Lewis G. Brown
#19 Lewis G. Brown
#20 Lewis G. Brown
#21 Sen. Saye Taryor Adolphus Dolo
#22 Sen. Saye Taryor Adolphus Dolo
#23 Sen. Saye Taryor Adolphus Dolo
#24 Sen. Saye Taryor Adolphus Dolo
#25 Sen. Saye Taryor Adolphus Dolo
#13 Lewis G. Brown
#14 Lewis G. Brown
#12 Lewis G. Brown
#11 Lewis G. Brown
#8 Lewis G. Brown
#9 Lewis G. Brown
#10 Lewis G. Brown
#7 Former President Moses Z. Blah
#54 University of Liberia Professor, former Information Minister, and rebel leader Alhaji G. V. Kromah
#28 Dr. D. Elwood Dunn
#29 Dr. D. Elwood Dunn
#49 University of Liberia Professor, former Information Minister, and rebel leader Alhaji G. V. Kromah
#50 University of Liberia Professor, former Information Minister, and rebel leader Alhaji G. V. Kromah
#51 University of Liberia Professor, former Information Minister, and rebel leader Alhaji G. V. Kromah
#52 University of Liberia Professor, former Information Minister, and rebel leader Alhaji G. V. Kromah
#53 University of Liberia Professor, former Information Minister, and rebel leader Alhaji G. V. Kromah
#27 Sen. Saye Taryor Adolphus Dolo
#295 Montserrado Day 8, Alfred Suah Debleh
#296 Montserrado Day 8, Joe T.Y. Lesole
#297 Montserrado Day 8, unidentified
#298 Montserrado Day 8, Evelyn Juah Wesseh
#299 Montserrado Day 9, James Paul
#300 Montserrado Day 11, Pastor Stephen A. Bryant
#301 Montserrado Day 13, James Dudu Thomas
#302 Montserrado Day 13, Annie Tennih
#303 Lofa Day 5, Hon. Kortima Superintendent
#304 Lofa Day 5, James Marwolo
#305 Montserrado, Henry S. Dubar
#306 Montserrado, Henry S. Dubar
#307 Montserrado, Henry S. Dubar
#308 Montserrado, Henry S. Dubar
#309 Montserrado, Dr. Augustine Konneh
#310 Montserrado, Dee-Maxwell S. Kemayah, Sr.
#311 Montserrado, Dee-Maxwell S. Kemayah, Sr.
#312 Montserrado, Dee-Maxwell S. Kemayah, Sr.
#313 Montserrado, Dee-Maxwell S. Kemayah, Sr.
#274 Sinoe Day 4, Emannuel S. Wesseh
#275 Sinoe Day 4, Harrison J. Jelleh
#276 Sinoe Day 4, Peter S. Weah
#277 Sinoe Day 4, Jefferson D. Gmeh
#278 Sinoe Day 4, Perry S. Weah
#279 Problem with tape
#281 Montserrado Day 1, Dr. Jeremiah Walker
#282 Montserrado Day 1, David D. Saweh
#283 Montserrado Day 1, David D. Saweh
#284 Montserrado Day 1, Michael T. Biddle
#285 Montserrado Day 6, Ahmeh A. Trawally
#286 Montserrado Day 6, Lee Tommy Kiada
#287 Montserrado Day 6, Boikai Massaquoi
#288 Montserrado Day 7, James Kabah
#289 Montserrado Day 7, Philip Zodou
#290 Montserrado Day 7, Mannah Massalay
#291 Montserrado Day 7, unidentified
#292 Montserrado Day 7, Gbasay Kamara
#293 Montserrado Day 7, Collins Chele
#294 Montserrado Day 8, Alfred Suah Debleh
#254 Sinoe Day 2, Theresa K. Chea
#255 Sinoe Day 2, James Capeh
#256 Sinoe Day 2, James Capeh (duplicate)
#257 Sinoe Day 2, Alexander Tarlue
#258 Sinoe Day 2, Ophelia Roberts
#259 Sinoe Day 2, Daniel Seth
#260 Sinoe Day 2, Sherina James
#261 Sinoe Day 2, Patience D. Togba
#262 Sinoe day 3, Sarah Witherspoon
#263 Sinoe Day 3, Sophia Koffa
#264 Sinoe Day 3, Barduse Sarkoh
#265 Sinoe Day 3, Barduse Sarkoh
#266 Sinoe Day 3, Lawrence Tarbah
#267 Sinoe Day 3, Joanna T. Togba
#268 Sinoe Day 3, Allen Saywon
#269 Sinoe Day 3, Emmanuel Klay
#270 Sinoe Day 3, Anna Jeboe
#271 Sinoe Day 3, Augustine K. Chea
#272 Sinoe Day 3, Christiana Dari
#273 Sinoe Day 3, Matally Bartue
#234 River Gee Day 5, P. Gbain Sampson Jr.
#235 Rivercess Day 1, Jerome Smith
#236 Rivercess Day 1, Percious Karpenoh
#237 Rivercess Day 1, Samuel B. Toe Sr.
#238 Rivercess Day 1, Mamie Kaydeh
#239 Rivercess Day 2, Edward Zoryeah
#240 Rivercess Day 2, Isaac Kennedy
#241 Rivercess Day 2, Morris Zeegay
#242 Rivercess Day 2, Bigboy Glagbo
#243 Rivercess Day 3, Lucy Vonciah
#244 Rivercess Day 3, Stanley G. Wehjue
#245 Rivercess Day 3, Wilson Woryonwon
#246 Rivercess Day 3, Sammy Darway
#247 Rivercess Day 3, Victoria Vigbay
#248 Rivercess Day 3, Martha Brown
#249 Rivercess Day 3, Makonni Gbotoe
#250 Rivercess Day 3, Jessay Wrotolo
#251 Sinoe Day 2, Brown B. Dorma
#252 Sinoe Day 2, Ester Saydee
#253 Sinoe Day 2, Roland Smith
#214 River Gee Day 2, Daniel T. Sackor
#215 River Gee Day 2, Wilson Saweayea
#216 River Gee Day 3, Jackson T. Slopor
#217 River Gee Day 3, Jackson T. Slopor (duplicate)
#218 River Gee Day 3, Mamie Slopor
#219 River Gee Day 3, Dickson W. Barley
#220 River Gee Day 3, Dickson W. Barley (duplicate)
#221 River Gee Day 3, Dickson W. Barley (duplicate)
#222 River Gee Day 3, Rose Beweh
#223 River Gee Day 3, Joseph S. Quenah
#224 River Gee Day 3, Elsay Collins
#225 River Gee Day 3, Theresa Choloplay
#226 River Gee Day 3, Zico N. Dardieh
#227 River Gee Day 3, Brown Nyagbe
#228 River Gee Day 4, John T. Cooper Sr.
#229 River Gee Day 4, Tiseray Quaye-Chair
#230 River Gee Day 4, Mrs. Martha Watkins and Washington Moore Victim and alleged Perpetrator, respectively
#231 River Gee Day 5, Jackson C. Nyepan
#232 River Gee Day 5, Parl Saydee
#233 River Gee Day 5, Rev. Anthony N. Chea
#194 Montserrado Day 14, Dorethy Mulbah
#195 Montserrado Day 14, Armstrong Nagbe
#196 Montserrado Day 14, Jeff Neeray
#197 Montserrado Day 14, Jeff Neeray
#198 Montserrado Day 15, Sam M. Kabah
#199 Montserrado Day 4, Ugin Gray (duplicate)
#200 River Gee Day 1, Otis Daniel Ogunti
#201 River Gee Day 1, Solo B. Teah Sr.
#202 River Gee Day 1, Elizabeth Brownell
#203 River Gee Day 1, Oretha Cholo
#204 River Gee Day 1, Hilary Nyenaoh Watkins
#205 River Gee Day 1, Esther Tinneh Sokolo
#206 River Gee Day 1, Martha Watkins
#207 River Gee Day 1, Martha Watkins (duplicate)
#208 River Gee Day 1, Martha Teleh
#209 River Gee Day 2, Anges Keh
#210 River Gee Day 2, Emannuel Nyepan Sukuta
#211 River Gee Day 2, Roseline K. The
#212 River Gee Day 2, Michael Freeman
#213 River Gee Day 2, Isaac Sukuta Sukua
#174 Montserrado Day 6, Peter Yorksah
#175 Montserrado Day 6, Lee Tommy Kiada
#176 Montserrado Day 7, Philip Zodou
#177 Montserrado Day 7, Gbasay Kamara
#178 Montserrado Day 8, Alfred Suah Debleh
#179 Montserrado Day 8, Joe T.Y. Lesole
#180 Montserrado Day 8, Joe T.Y. Lesole
#181 Montserrado Day 8, Evelyn Juah Wessah
#182 Montserrado Day 9, James Paul
#183 Montserrado Day 9, Samuel D. Karnley
#184 Montserrado Day 10, Tarnu Johnson
#185 Montserrado Day 10, Oretha Williams
#186 Montserrado Day 10, Solomon Gonleh
#187 Montserrado Day 10, James Kerkula
#188 Montserrado Day 10, Prince Boika Perry
#189 Montserrado Day 11, Annie J. Smallwood
#190 Montserrado Day 11, Morris A. Padmore
#191 Montserrado Day 11, Joseph Kamara
#192 Montserrado Day 12, Krubo Eyeah
#193 Montserrado Day 13, James Dudu Thomas
#160 Lofa Day 2, Morris Fayah
#161 Lofa Day 2, Moses Kanneh
#162 Lofa Day 3, John T. Kamara
#163 Lofa Day 3, Hannah Varney
#164 Lofa Day 3, George Kimba
#165 Montserrado Day 1, David D. Saweh
#166 Montserrado Day 1, Dr. Jeremiah Walker
#167 Montserrado Day 1, James Meah
#168 Montserrado Day 3, Gladice Arthur
#169 Montserrado Day 4, Ugin Gray
#170 Montserrado Day 4, Emmett Gray
#171 Montserrado Day 4, Boima Ballah
#172 Montserrado Day 4, Mohammed D. Gray
#173 Montserrado Day 5, Joshua Milton Blayea
#145 Grand Kru Day 4, Children's Workshop
#146 Grand Kru Day 4, John Nyantee
#147 Grand Kru Day 4, Mrs. Anna J. Wreh
#148 Grand Kru Day 4, Jacob Kortie Nyewon
#149 Grand Kru Day 4, Benedict S. Sayeh
#150 Grand Kru Day 4, Winston Flomo
#151 Grand Kru Day 4, Isaac Tisuduail
#152 Grand Kru Day 5, Mariah Bayoh
#153 Grand Kru Day 3, Augustine G. Nyanfor (duplicate)
#154 Lofa Day 2, Brimah Vanday
#155 Lofa Day 2, Marth Sackie
#156 Lofa Day 2, Martue Sialia
#157 Lofa Day 2, Korpo Mbamba
#158 Lofa Day 2, Ansumana Kanneh
#159 Lofa Day 2, Fatu Kanneh
#55 University of Liberia Professor, former Information Minister, and rebel leader Alhaji G. V. Kromah
#30 Dr. D. Elwood Dunn
#31 Dr. D. Elwood Dunn
#32 National Security Advisor Dr. H. Boima Fahnbulleh
#33 National Security Advisor Dr. H. Boima Fahnbulleh
#34 National Security Advisor Dr. H. Boima Fahnbulleh
#35 National Security Advisor Dr. H. Boima Fahnbulleh
#36 National Security Advisor Dr. H. Boima Fahnbulleh
#37 National Security Advisor Dr. H. Boima Fahnbulleh
#38 Senator Prince Y. Johnson
#39 Senator Prince Y. Johnson
#40 Senator Prince Y. Johnson
#41 Senator Prince Y. Johnson
#42 Senator Prince Y. Johnson
#43 Senator Prince Y. Johnson
#44 Senator Prince Y. Johnson
#45 University of Liberia Professor, former Information Minister, and rebel leader Alhaji G. V. Kromah
#46 University of Liberia Professor, former Information Minister, and rebel leader Alhaji G. V. Kromah
#47 University of Liberia Professor, former Information Minister, and rebel leader Alhaji G. V. Kromah
#48 University of Liberia Professor, former Information Minister, and rebel leader Alhaji G. V. Kromah
#75 deputy minister for economic cooperation, Ministry of Foreign Affairs Hon. Commany Wesseh
#60 former interim president of the Republic of Liberia Dr. Amos C. Sawyer
#61 former interim president of the Republic of Liberia Dr. Amos C. Sawyer
#62 former interim president of the Republic of Liberia Dr. Amos C. Sawyer
#63 former interim president of the Republic of Liberia Dr. Amos C. Sawyer
#64 former interim president of the Republic of Liberia Dr. Amos C. Sawyer
#65 former interim president of the Republic of Liberia Dr. Amos C. Sawyer
#66 former interim president of the Republic of Liberia Dr. Amos C. Sawyer
#67 former interim president of the Republic of Liberia Dr. Amos C. Sawyer
#68 former interim president of the Republic of Liberia Dr. Amos C. Sawyer
#69 former interim president of the Republic of Liberia Dr. Amos C. Sawyer
#70 former interim president of the Republic of Liberia Dr. Amos C. Sawyer
#71 deputy minister for economic cooperation, Ministry of Foreign Affairs Hon. Commany Wesseh
#72 deputy minister for economic cooperation, Ministry of Foreign Affairs Hon. Commany Wesseh
#73 deputy minister for economic cooperation, Ministry of Foreign Affairs Hon. Commany Wesseh
#74 deputy minister for economic cooperation, Ministry of Foreign Affairs Hon. Commany Wesseh
#59 former interim president of the Republic of Liberia Dr. Amos C. Sawyer
#58 former interim president of the Republic of Liberia Dr. Amos C. Sawyer
#56 University of Liberia Professor, former Information Minister, and rebel leader Alhaji G. V. Kromah
#57 former interim president of the Republic of Liberia Dr. Amos C. Sawyer
#96 Grand Gedeh Day 1, Joseph Kekula
#82 Grand Bassa Day 2, Dolo Gudradah
#83 Grand Bassa Day 2, Matthew Vondeh
#84 Grand Bassa Day 2, Ezekiel Konah
#85 Grand Bassa Day 2, Felecia Brown
#86 Grand Bassa Day 3, Philip Kanamah
#88 Grand Bassa Day 4, Abraham Kraingar
#89 Grand Bassa Day 4, Philip Menyon
#90 Grand Bassa Day 4, Irene Smith
#91 Grand Bassa Day 4, Elizabeth Bacon
#92 Grand Bassa Day 4, Moses Broprah
#93 Grand Gedeh Day 1, Helen Walker
#94 Grand Gedeh Day 1, George G. Quiah
#95 Grand Gedeh Day 1, Mercy Daytopo Yamie
#79 Grand Bassa Day 1, Mamie Membah
#80 Grand Bassa Day 1, John Biah
#81 Grand Bassa Day 2, Lincoln Tohmpoi
#76 deputy minister for economic cooperation, Ministry of Foreign Affairs Hon. Commany Wesseh
#77 deputy minister for economic cooperation, Ministry of Foreign Affairs Hon. Commany Wesseh
#78 Grand Bassa Day 1, Myer Johnny
#111 Grand Gedeh Day 4, Kowa Bah
#97 Grand Gedeh Day 1, Jasper Zleho
#98 Grand Gedeh Day 1, Rancy J. Borkay
#99 Grand Gedeh Day 1, Elizabeth Wade Sonpon
#100 Grand Gedeh Day 1, Henry C. Zonweay
#101 Grand Dedeh Day 1, Dorothy Yallah
#102 Grand Gedeh Day 2, Eugene Y. Gaye
#103 Grand Gedeh Day 2, Oretha Dennis
#104 Grand Gedeh Day 3, Tolbert S. Togba (first half)
#105 Grand Gedeh Day 3, Tolbert S. Togba (second half)
#106 Grand Gedeh Day 3, Oliver Nyantoe Wah
#107 Grand Gedeh Day 3, Barway Billy
#108 Grand Gedeh Day 3, Albert Bolekay Mowem
#109 Grand Gedeh Day 3, Steven Jones
#110 Grand Gedeh Day 4, Jessie Tuilar
#124 Grand Kru Day 1, Mah Nagba
#112 Grand Gedeh Day 4, Doris Wuludea Zleh
#113 Grand Gedeh Day 5, Miss Jasadeh T.C. Boley
#114 Grand Gedeh Day 5, Mr. Otis M. Jolo
#115 Grand Gedeh Day 5, Jayllah Yannuh
#116 Grand Gedeh Day 5, Brown Tarty
#117 Grand Gedeh Day 5, Stephen G. Collins
#118 Grand Gedeh Day 5, Peter Kuya Gaye
#119 Grand Gedeh Day 5, Mabel Cellah Tarpeh
#120 Grand Gedeh Day 5, Mabel Cellah Tarpeh (duplicate)
#121 Grand Gedeh Day 5, Lucy Saydee
#122 Grand Gedeh Day 5, Jacob G. Gbowea
#123 Grand Kru Day 1, Linda Coleman
#125 Grand Kru Day 1, Stanley G. Wilson
#126 Grand Kru Day 1, Sarah Yenkan
#127 Grand Kru Day 1, Saye Weah
#128 Grand Kru Day 2, Peter W. Wesseh Sr.
#129 Grand Kru Day 2, Joseph Wesseh Kieh
#130 Grand Kru Day 2, Lucy Hinnehnyonoh Nyema
#131 Grand Kru Day 2, Alex Toe Sieh
#132 Grand Kru Day 2, Theophilis Molmgee Jugbe
#133 Grand Kru Day 3, Helena Saydee
#134 Grand Kru Day 3, Helena Saydee (duplicate)
#135 Grand Kru Day 3, Victoria Blidee Wreh
#136 Grand Kru Day 3, Augustine G. Nyanfor
#137 Grand Kru Day 3, Jeremiah Slehn Nagbe
#138 Grand Kru Day 3, Emmanuel Quanteh Sebo
#139 Grand Kru Day 3, Robert Kieh Kieh
#140 Grand Kru Day 3, Robert Kieh Kieh (duplicate)
#141 Grand Kru Day 3, Annie Nimene
#142 Grand Kru Day 3, Mary I. Nagbe
#143 Grand Kru Day 3, Sylvester S. Nimene
#144 Grand Kru Day 3, Felicia Gray
CDs in Arabic
CDs in Arabic
CDs in Arabic
CDs in Arabic
CDs in Arabic
CDs in Arabic
CDs in Arabic
CDs in Arabic
CDs in Arabic
CDs in Arabic
CDs in Arabic
CDs in Arabic
CDs in Arabic
CDs in Arabic
Peru CVR
Peru TCR
Peru TCR
Peru TCR
Peru TCR
Peru CVR
Peru CVR
Chile CVR (Sur Andino region)
Chile CVR (Sur Andino region)
Peru CVR
Peru TCR
series from the Peruvian CVR
Partido Aprista Peruano (series from Peruvian CVR)
Partidos de Izquierda (series from Peruvian CVR)
Partido Popular Cristiano (series from Peruvian CVR)
Partidos Accion Popular (series from Peruvian CVR)
Peru TCR
Peru CVR
Peru CVR
Peru CVR
Peru CVR
Peru TCR
Final Peru CVR report
Peru CVR
Peru CVR
Documents released by the CVR
Peru CVR
Peru CVR
Dubs from Beta
Dubs from Beta
Dubs from Beta
Dubs from Beta
Dubs from Beta
Dubs from Beta
Dubs from Beta
Dubs from Beta
Dubs from Beta
Dubs from Beta
Dubs from Beta
Dubs from Beta
Dubs from Beta
dubbed from Beta
Peru CVR
Peru TCR
East Timor TRC
Peru TCR
Peru TCR
Chile CVR (Sur Andino region)
Chile CVR (Sur Andino region)
From Peruvian CVR
From Peruvian CVR
From Peruvian CVR
Peru TCR
Peru TCR
Series from the Peruvian CVR
Series from the Peruvian CVR
Series from the Peruvian CVR
Series from the Peruvian CVR
Series from the Peruvian CVR
Series from the Peruvian CVR
Peru CVR
Series from the Peruvian CVR
Series from the Peruvian CVR
Series from the Peruvian CVR
Series from the Peruvian CVR
Series from the Peruvian CVR
Peru CVR
Peru CVR
Peru CVR
Peru CVR
Damaged
4 DVDs all say Tutu on them
5 DVDs all say Tutu on them
6 DVDs all say Tutu on them
7 DVDs all say Tutu on them
South African Truth Commission
Greensboro
Truth commission materials, including audio and video recordings of trials, commission events, workshops, transcripts interviews, and documents. Materials are from truth commissions in Ghana, Liberia, Iraq, and Uganda. Many of the audiovisual files are digitized from audiovisual media described above.
Includes two folders with documentary clips, video interviews, and events, produced by ICTJ and others, related to advocacy, activism, and awareness of Truth and Reconciliation Commissions. One folder contains General advocacy on transitional justice in Ghana, South Africa, and other countries. Another folder contains video interviews, music, footage from events, and other audiovisual material related to the TRC in Liberia.
Contains transcripts of proceedings from commissions in Ghana, Liberia, Morocco, and Peru.
Audiovisual material related to the National Reconciliation Commission in Ghana. The footage includes testimonies by government officials and other witnesses and multicamera video footage of the hearings and other proceedings.
Audiovisual material related to the TRC hearings in Liberia. The hearings took place in the capital city of Monrovia, located in the Montserrado county. The footage includes testimonies by government officials and other witnesses. There are some issues with the audio quality. Also includes reports for database files.
Multicamera and documentary video footage of Desmond Tutu's visit to Solomon Islands. Includes speeches, events, and other ceremonies related to the TRC launch in Solomon Islands.
Video interviews conducted by ICTJ in Uganda with accompanying transcripts. Includes interviews with students, academics, a child soldier, and others.
Video interviews in MP4 (use copies) and QuickTime (preservation copies) formats.
Contains ICTJ publication series, ICTJ annual reports, handbooks, policy briefs, transitional justice publications, and books published by ICTJ.
Topics include: Sierra Leone TRC, Argentina and accountability, Bosnian developments in transitional justice, Serbia and Montenegro developments in transitional justice.
Includes reports from conferences hosted by ICTJ.
Topics include: truth commissions and gender, enforced disappearance and women, sexual violence, Nepal's conflict and women.
Topics include: providing reparations in Indonesia, Iraqi Voices, transitional justice in sub-Saharan Africa and the Congo, Indonesian and East Timor peace processes and trials, NGOs and truth commissions, Croatian developments in transitional justice, ICC, Ghana's NRC, restitution.
Topics include: war crimes in Serbia, Bosnia, and East Timor, the Special Court for Sierra Leone, lessons in using international judges in Kosovo.
Topics include: reparations in Darfur and Peru, reparations in theory and practice.
Topics include: indigenous rights and truth commissions.
ICTJ annual reports, strategic plans, and strategic perspective, ICTJ fact sheets.
Publications include: practitioners handbooks and manuals, survey on attitudes about peace in Uganda, truth commissions, criminal tribunals and justice, transitional justice and democracy in Latin America, Cambodian communities in transition, policy briefs, Lebanon's political violence and special tribunal, peace in the DRC, children and transitional justice.
Includes Unspeakable Truths by ICTJ's Priscilla Hayner, essays about transitional justice, truth commissions and procedural fairness, democracy in postcolonial Sri Lanka, reparations and the Darfur peace process, truth, memory, and reconstructions, reparations for victims of political violence, justice for systematic crimes, prosecuting heads of state, transitional justice and development.
Conferences, workshops, courses, seminars, and symposia hosted by ICTJ in various locations throughout the world.
Contains files, trip reports, conference reports, and workshop notes from conferences hosted by ICTJ or ICTJ in partnership with another NGO.
Bahrain Truth Seeking Workshop, book launches for "Justice as Prevention" and "What Happened to the Women," Transitional Justice Essentials Course in New York 2009, Gender and Transitional Justice in Africa conference, Nuremberg Conference
The Administrative Records series contains presidential files, logistical files from the organization's operation, and individual staff files. The latter group represents the records of 16 prominent ICTJ staff members; former presidents and co-founders, program directors and prosecution unit leaders. Formats in these records include office files, notebooks, printed materials such as publicity, articles, and publicastions, and audiovisual recordings.
Contains the files of 16 ICTJ high-level staff members arranged alphabetically by last name. Includes the files of co-founders Alex Boraine, Priscilla Hayner, and Paul van Zyl, as well as long-standing criminal justice director Marieke Wierda and prosecutions director Vasuki Nesiah, and Louis Bickford, a multi-unit director. Most of the staff files include audiovisual components, including videos and sound recordings. These may require the production of listening or viewing copies.
The staff files narrate the story of ICTJ from its initial creation to its development into a strong, influential, global leader in transitional justice.
The Louis Bickford papers house materials grouped into these categories: Administrative, Geographic Regions, Print Materials, and Professional Papers.
Includes Louis Bickford's notes, notebooks, calendars, incoming and outgoing correspondence, articles, conference presentations, drafts, a book proposal, financial documents, and International Center for Transitional Justice onboarding materials.
Materials include International Center for Transitional Justice budgets, work plans, ICTJ units and working groups, fellowship programs, staff retreats, meetings, organization charts, office floorplans, Board of Directors meetings, strategic planning, background on the ICTJ, conferences, summer institutes, workshops, various conference agendas and programs, contracts, courses, job descriptions, correspondence, and essays and research on transitional justice, truth commissions, constitutional and international law, and lustration. Files are arranged in original order; budget files are in chronological order.
Includes materials on African NGOs, Argentina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Burma, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, Czech Republic, Guantánamo, Guatemala, Israel and Palestine, Japan, Mexico, Northern Ireland, Perú, Serbia, Srebrenica and Sarajevo, Uganda, Uruguay, and Zimbabwe. Country files contain journal articles and other publications, including ICTJ reports, related to governance, rule of law, political stability, truth and reconciliation, reparations, and human rights violations.
Files are arranged alphabetically by country. Materials are chiefly in English, but these records do contain some materials in Spanish and French.
Materials include International Center for Transitional Justice pamphlets, annual reports, occasional justice series, gender justice series, and posters for an ICTJ Transitional Justice Essentials Course.
Virtual Instructor Project
Transitional Justice course materials. Correspondence re: honorary degree from Linfield College.
Virtual Instructor Project
Materials on Cuba, various country publications.
Interview about reparations
Virtual Instructor Project
Research Unit meeting notes, Liberia Working Group and Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Liberia work plans, budgets, goals, meeting agendas and news reports, International Policy Unit notes on Liberia.
Posters of "Sierrarat" TRC, Open Society Initiative of West Africa and Transitional Justice Working Group TRC posters, wanted poster for Jose Efrain Rios Montt.
ICTJ mission statement, academic articles on transitional justice, human rights, and truth seeking, UN Inter-Agency Disarmament, Demobilization, and Reintegration Working Group, ICTJ staff retreat, ICTJ workplan and summary, UN panel on ICC, country files.
Peru
Peru
Peru
11 discs
11 discs
11 discs
11 discs
11 discs
11 discs
11 discs
11 discs
11 discs
11 discs
11 discs
Countries of note include Afghanistan, Ghana, Liberia, Peru, Sierra Leone, and Zimbabwe.
Contains early documents related to the founding and funding of ICTJ and ICTJ programs. Includes staff diagram, fundraising information, grants, project descriptions, architecture diagrams.
All conferences, workshops, speaking or event invitations, and trips by Priscilla Hayner.
Knowledge management recommendations, management meetings, all unit meetings, ICTJ staff newsletter, ICTJ board meetings, Truth Commissions Affinity group meetings, Transitional Justice Alliance meetings, organizational review, staff retreats, workplans, fundraising.
NYU Truth Commissions project, Policymakers program, Red Cross program on the missing, ICTJ Fellows program, NYU Lessons Learned project, intelligence oversight project, grant proposals, project research, UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights Toolkit project, apologies, capacity building, Chicago Principles of Post-Conflict Justice, ICC, memorials and memory work, UN rule of law report.
Interviews, media and radio appearances, publications,Occasional Paper (O&A) series of edits and submissions, work on Unspeakable Truth book project.
Canada
Canada
Canada
Canada
Interview about Auschwitz
Countries of note include Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, Ghana, Japan, Kyrgyzstan, Peru South Africa, and the United States.
Historical Justice in International Perspectives Conference, Second Annual Human Rights Conference, conference in Accura, Ghana.
ICTJ GTRC workshop, assessment of current work, ICTJ workplan, Asia Regional Training, ICTJ Donor Consortium.
Long Term Legacies (LTL) project, Open Society Institute (OSI) project on US accountability, gender and transitional justice, disappearances, reconciliation, reparations, truth commissions, vetting, ICC, Due Process of Law Foundation books.
Fund for Peace report, Conciliation Resources Accord, articles about amnesty and peace agreements, country files including Sudan/Darfur, East Timor, Ethiopia, Israel/Palestine, Northern Ireland, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Solomon Islands, and UN Guidelines for representatives in negotiations of conflict resolution.
Conferences and papers on genocide, ICTJ comments on Truth, Justice and Reconciliation bills, articles and newspaper clippings about Brazil, e-mails, published materials in Spanish, APRODEH information about Fujimori penal trial.
BBC Post Production
Special Court for Sierra Leone materials.
Country files including Iraq, Lebanon, Morocco, and Tunisia; draft work plans, disappearances and missing persons across the Middle East, reparations reports. In Arabic.
Countries of note include Afghanistan, Ghana, Sri Lanka, Sierra Leone, South Africa, and Zimbabwe.
Women's Caucus for Gender Justice, conferences on conflict and transitional justice, accountability for past human rights violations, disappearances and transitional justice training, Asia Society symposium, International Center for Tolerance Education conference, World Conference against Racism.
ICTJ internal documents, discussions and comment on Ghana TRC, reparations for violations of human rights and peacebuilding in South Asia, ICTJ Gender Program discussions, Country Programs Unit Committee documents.
Morocco's claim's to western Sahara, truth commission writings, unofficial truth projects summary, intelligence oversight project, "The Ground Beneath Her Feet," international law, and public international law.
International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) project on the missing, UN University project, UN documents on human rights, thematic files including amnesty, children and human rights, corruption, elections, gender and truth commissions, gender and transitional justice, ICC, memorials, legal accountability, reparations, relationships between truth commissions and NGOs, truth seeking, and women in conflict.
Introduction to ICTJ's Truth and Memory Program, workplan, ICTJ style guide, memorialization and democracy, memory and justice articles, Balkans Truth Commission.
Research resources, transitions working group, knowledge management working group, notes and project files, ICTJ Design, Monitoring, and Evaluation group, ICTJ research unit and calendar.
Indigenous peoples conference, western Balkans materials, political and security developments in Kenya, knowledge management.
see Alex Boraine.
Files related to van Zyl's TEDGlobal Africa talk.
Countries of note include Afghanistan, Peru, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Sudan, and Yugoslavia.
World Bank Symposium, Vancouver Dialogues, transitional justice conferences, seminars and events on international law, International Criminal Law in the Arab World conference, UNHCHR workshops, ICTJ conferences, Asia Society Symposium, Victims Rights Working Group meetings.
Prosecutions, rule of law and transitional justice, Judicial Supplements, UN documents, ICC Trust Fund for Victims, international criminal tribunals, intelligence oversight, UN Security Council reports, Inter-American Court of Human Rights reports, victim participation in prosecutions.
Staff retreats, ICTJ board meetings, policy unit meetings, ICTJ program staff, prosecutions workplan.
"Procedural Developments in International Criminal Courts," book review.
4 spiral notebooks.
The files of ICTJ former presidents Juan Mendez and Alex Boraine. Alex Boraine was a co-founder of ICTJ and served as its president from 2001-2003. Juan Mendez served as the president from 2004-2009. Their work within ICTJ spans topics from the founding of ICTJ to truth commissions to NGO partnerships to transitional justice and human rights issues throughout the world. Their work brought them to many conferences, symposia, trainings, and speaking engagements and allowed them to publish numerous writings for more than a decade with ICTJ. This series is comprised of name files, organization files, conferences and events, transitional justice and human rights issues, ICTJ management, correspondence, and writings/publications.
Individuals who worked with ICTJ.
Organizations that worked with ICTJ.
B92 Belgrade project
Conferences, events, workshops, and symposia attended by senior leaders at ICTJ.
Contains files from truth commissions attended, directed, and assisted by ICTJ senior leaders.
Includes projects by Alex Boraine and Juan Mendez about transitional justice, human rights, domestic prosecutions, capacity building, restorative justice, institutional reform, reparations, amnesty, and redress.
Materials related to the founding and running of ICTJ. Includes ICTJ concept papers, media, outreach, and communications, criteria for ICTJ involvement, ICTJ high level meetings, management meetings, ICTJ partnerships, ICTJ thematic plans, proposals for retreats, program units, and committee meetings.
Includes writings, publications, and editorial notes from Juan Mendez and Alex Boraine.
Correspondence, e-mails, memos, outlines, and proposals between senior level staff at ICTJ.
Contains institutional files from various ICTJ staff members, partner organizations, and program units. This series includes ICTJ staff retreats, the ICTJ Fellowship Program, training materials, ICTJ founding materials, conferences and events attended by various ICTJ staff, grants and fundraising, budgets, and materials from the Board of Directors.
Includes staff retreat materials from 2002 through 2014. Several program unit staff retreat materials including the Networks and Capacity Building Unit retreat, Policymakers and Civil Society Unit retreat, Prosecution retreat, and Americas Program retreat.
Transitional Justice Fellowship Program materials including country materials from Zimbabwe, Sierra Leone, Nigeria, Mozambique, Democratic Republic of Congo, Cambodia, Ghana, Rwanda, and Latin America. Includes evaluation reports of the program in Africa and Asia, academic coursework, and alumni program materials.
Edit #1
Edit #11
Edit #18
Edit #29
Edit #40
Edit #46
Edit #56
Edit #3
Edit #13
Edit #20
Edit #31
Edit #42
Edit #48
Edit #5
Edit #15
Edit #22
Edit #33
Edit #44
Edit #50
Edit #7
Edit #16
Edit #24
Edit #35
Edit #52
Edit #9
Edit #26
Edit #37
Edit #54
Edit #10
Edit #28
Edit #39
Edit #2
Edit #12
Edit #19
Edit #30
Edit #41
Edit #47
Edit #57
Edit #4
Edit #14
Edit #21
Edit #32
Edit #43
Edit #49
Edit #6
Edit #23
Edit #34
Edit #45
Edit #51
Edit #8
Edit #25
Edit #36
Edit #53
Edit #27
Edit #38
Edit #55
Includes files, such as resource and training materials, for the Cape Town Fellowship Program in 2008, as well as the Alumni Leadership Summit files from June 2008.
Includes management meetings, Policymakers and Civil Society Unit (PCSU) workplans and meetings, ICTJ culture principles and practices, steering committee meetings, strategic planning meetings, regional and thematic meetings, and directors meetings.
Photos from ICTJ Flickr site. These photos are from several staff members and include images of truth commissions, Louis Bickford's memorialization project, workshops, conferences, staff events, ICTJ program events and activities, and video interviews with staff in June 2007.
Training materials for interns, employee handbook, truth commission trainings and workshops, as well as transitional justice resources, training modules, and introductions to NGO partners with ICTJ in transitional justice.
RD01-20
RD21-40
RD41-60
RD61-76
Design, Monitoring, and Evaluation ICTJ staff training, master reading materials documents, powerpoint training modules, toolkit for internal training and orientation for ICTJ staff, video clips used in past trainings, virtual instructor presentations. Resource Discs includes is the documentation reading materials and information prepared for ICTJ courses, trainings, workshops, conferences, etc. These discs were used to train both staff members and volunteers in a variety of capacities. ICTJ's resource discs include ICTJ Fellowship Program trainings and reading lists, workshop materials including powerpoint slides, transitional justice reading lists, Transitional Justice Essentials Course materials and powerpoint slides, and country materials.
Includes start-up costs and budgets, introduction to ICTJ, and ICTJ program proposals. In box 143 are photos from the ICTJ launch party.
Includes truth commissions in Uganda, Canada, Colombia, Peru, and the United States, program proposals, press hits and ICTJ in the news, reports on gender programs, oral history and documenting the truth materials, and ICTJ programs on justice and peace.
Documents of the US Accountability Project.
Conferences, events, workshops, and symposia attended by various staff members at ICTJ. In box 143 are photos from ICTJ conferences and events.
Edit #1
Edit #10
Edit #11
Edit #12
Edit #13
Edit #14
Edit #15
Edit #16
Edit #17
Edit #18
Edit #2
Edit #3
Edit #4
Edit #5
Edit #6
Edit #7
Edit #8
Edit #9
Edit #19
Edit #28
Edit #29
Edit #30
Edit #20
Edit #21
Edit #22
Edit #23
Edit #24
Edit #25
Edit #26
Edit #27
video recording
video recording
video recording
Conference on Gender Justice in Post-Conflict Situations co-organized by UNIFEM and ILAC
Conference on Gender Justice in Post-Conflict Situations co-organized by UNIFEM and ILAC
Conference on Gender Justice in Post-Conflict Situations co-organized by UNIFEM and ILAC
Conference on Gender Justice in Post-Conflict Situations co-organized by UNIFEM and ILAC
Conference on Gender Justice in Post-Conflict Situations co-organized by UNIFEM and ILAC
Conference on Gender Justice in Post-Conflict Situations co-organized by UNIFEM and ILAC
Photos and videos from events and conferences
in Croatian
Neeleen and Pillay announce conf.
Audio recordings of staff lunches and events, International Law Workshop panel discussion with Marieke Wierda, panel discussion with Lemkin's House, Q & A with Graeme about forgiveness, and Yemen Gender Conference.
Grants and fundraising proposals, contracts, evaluations, and agreements. Includes Ford Foundation, Rausing Trust, and Andrus Family Fund grants.
Includes reparations program budget, ICTJ budgets, and America's Program budget.
ICTJ Board of Directors materials. Includes board handbooks, resolutions, expansions and nominations, considerations, bylaws amendments, and the directors handbook. Board of Directors meetings, Executive Committee meetings, President's Report to the Board, and Finance, Administration, and Audit Committee meetings arranged chronologically. Following the board meetings ICTJ Workplans, Strategic Plans, and Budgets arranged chronologically. Box 143 contains board member photos as well as board meeting photos.
Oversize staff retreat posters. Banner from a conference in Nepal and missing persons drawings for a truth commission workshop.
Contains assorted audiovisual material generated by ICTJ. This series contains audiovisual materials that are either unlabeled or that do not provide enough information to place them in the existing series. These materials are of several formats including CD, DVD, cassette tape, miniDV, VHS and betamax tape.
James Agee Film Project: a Non-Profit Corp
it says SL TRC but that is crossed out
Dubbed from VHS
NTSC copy
PAL copy
Possibly a blank tape
Potentially blank
Potentially blank
Potentially blank
Potentially blank
Potentially blank
The Rwanda Videotapes and Audiotapes section of the International Monitor Institute records contains descriptions of 47 tapes and 282 audiotapes collected by IMI that depict human rights issues and themes in Rwanda. These materials span the years 1992-1999. The videotapes largely document massacre sites and mass graves, evacuations, the role of missionaries and human rights activists, and conditions in refugee camps holding both victims and killers. Several documentaries and news reports examine the development of a genocidal ideology in Rwanda tied to its colonial past, as well as offer histories of Tutsi/Hutu animosity, including the role of the Belgian colonial government, France, and the Catholic Church. Many of the materials in this collection offer an analysis of government structure and politics in Rwanda before and after the genocide. In addition, this collection includes various news segments reporting on the movements of the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) and the Rwanda Army as well as the effectiveness of the United Nations in the conflict; includes a documentary on Belgian soldiers killed in Rwanda.
The majority of audiotapes in this collection are RTLM and Radio Rwanda broadcasts inciting violence and orchestrating the genocide, encouraging youth to join military actions, and frequently referring to specific targets, such as Bilyogo and Nyamirambo. Broadcasts also include frequent reference to Inyenzi (cockroaches) and Inkotani (Tutsi Rebel Army). Many of the RTLM broadcasters accuse the Rwanda Patriotic Front (RPF) of the assassination of President Habiyarimana and argue that the Inkotani want to exterminate Hutus and so they must, in turn, be exterminated. Broadcasters speak out against French intervention and accuse the Belgians of alignment with the Rebel Army. The remaining audiotapes were produced by Reporters without Borders (RSF).
The majority of the materials in this collection are in French and Kinyarwanda. Both documentaries and news reports take the form of interviews with Rwandans about the massacres and interviews with members of the RPF as well as with figures involved with organizing the killings. The collection includes interviews with notable figures, such as Théoneste Bagosora on his role in the genocide, Ferdinand Nahimana, the former director of Radio Télévision Libre des Mille Collines (RTLM) about his failure to stop broadcasts that fueled the genocide, as well as accounts given by members of the death squad.
The series in this collection include the Rwanda Videotapes Series, the Rwanda Audiotapes Series (Audiocassette), and the Rwanda Audiotapes Series (Electronic Records). The bulk of the material for this collection belongs to the Audiotapes Series. Acquired as part of the Human Rights Archive. Further material from the IMI Rwanda records can be found in IMI's organizational records, including printed transcripts of many of the audiotapes. All videotapes in this collection are in Betacam SP format. Please note that the descriptions of the tapes in this collection are based on IMI's data and were not originally drafted by Rubenstein Library Staff. Further organizational material on Rwanda can be found in the International Monitor Institute Records, also at the Rubenstein Library. Air Date: 1996 Aug. 15
Producer: Koos Barten
Original Language: French, Kinyarwanda
This report begins with Rwandans being interviewed at a grave site and follows with churches being accused of not showing a strong moral conscience, as well as denying any responsibility. An interview is featured with a Tai Chi professor, showing how he works to instill in the minds of Rwandans the 4 qualities of Tai Chi discipline: softness, humility, realism and patience. A close-up of a classroom follows, where Rwandans are learning self-discipline and self-control. It is believed that had the Rwandans taught self-control, the massacres would not have happened. The program focuses on Tai Chi training as a method to help heal the ills of the society and prevent future killing.
Air Date: 1996 Aug. 23
Producer: Sky News Africa Bureau
Original Language: English, Kinyarwanda
Evacuation in Kigali: CBS reporter James Forlong reports for Sky New from Kigali, Rwanda about the UN controlled evacuation of the St. Famille orphanage in Kigali in late June, 1994. Based on a list, 200 out of thousands of Tutsis were allowed in the UN trucks, the rest remaining in the control of the Interhamwe, a Hutu paramilitary organization. Investigator: Faria Rekkas.
Church Massacre: Church massacre at Ntarma, Rwanda in late June 1994. The report contains images of the aftermath of the massacre and an interview with a member of the Rwanda Patriotic Front (RPF) who claims the killings were the work of the Hutu paramilitary organization Interhamwe. Investigator: Faria Rekkas
Kigali Prison: James Forlong reports for Sky News from Kigali, Rwanda about the living conditions in the Kigali prison where both victims and perpetrators are being held. Investigator: Faria Rekkas.
Air Date: 1996 Aug. 30
Producer: BBC
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French/Subtitles: English
This broadcast is from April, 1994, as the war in Rwanda is in full scale. Fergal Keane of the BBC reports on how innocent civilians have been caught between Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) and Rwandan Government soldiers' conflicts throughout Rwanda. Keane states that mass killings have been taking place in Kigali. Continuing his journey into the heart of the war, the reporter visits a Catholic church in the Nyarubuye region, the site of a mass killing. After venturing to Nyarubuye, the broadcast follows Keane into a refugee camp in Tanzania, where he meets with Gacumbitsi, the man accused of organizing the Nyarubuye massacre. He then moves on to Butare, where he focuses on the prefect Sylvan Nsabimana. Keane interviews Nsabimana, showing how he has protected people from being killed by government soldiers and militias before his being sacked and replaced by a Rwandan government army officer.
Air Date: 1996 Aug. 16
Producer: Luc Cote
Original Language: English, Kinyarwanda, French/Subtitles: English
"Sitting on a Volcano" is the first in a three-part series on Rwanda by independent reporters Daniele Lacourse and Yvan Patry. In this report, Lacourse and Patry trace the exodus of Hutus who fled Rwanda to take refuge in neighboring countries. The reporters discuss the difficulties of life in the refugee camps, focusing on camps in the Democratic Republic of Congo near Goma, where thousands are falling victim to daily violence and disease. UN officials Chris Janowski, Guy De Tousignant and Luc Andre Racineare are interviewed. The report also focuses on assurances by the Rwandan government that it is safe for refugees to return home. "Sitting on a Volcano" criticizes the international community for continuing to feed the killers in these refugee camps outside of Rwanda while failing to acknowledge grave human rights violations in Rwanda. The report concludes by making the case that until those responsible for the genocide are brought to justice, Rwanda cannot begin to heal itself.
Air Date: 1996 Aug. 16
Producer: Yvan Patry, Sam Grana (NFB)
Original Language: English, French, Kinyarwanda/Voice-over: English
This video focuses on the murder of two Canadian missionaries, killed for having protested against corruption and human rights violations. The first of the two, Brother François Cardinal, worked at the controversial Rwanda College of Rambura , funded by the Canadian government and located in President Habyarimana's hometown. The report shows how Brother Cardinal was shot after charging that Canadian aid money was being diverted to the Rwandan president's advisors. The report also points out that Brother Cardinal's killers were never found. The second Canadian missionary featured on this video is Father Claude Simard, the only Canadian to have stayed in Rwanda during the genocide. Father Simard was murdered in 1994, after the genocidal regime had been overthrown by the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF). The report discusses how Father Simard risked his life to rescue Tutsis and speculates that his killers were Hutus acting to prevent Father Simard's testimony. However, the video goes on to reveal that Father Simard had made enemies within the current RPF regime by speaking out against reprisal killings against the Hutus. The investigation carried out by this team of journalists also raises some disturbing questions about Canada's own role in the Rwandan genocide.
Air Date: 1996
Producer: Alter-Ciné, Telefilm Canada
Original Language: English, French, Kinyarwanda/Subtitles: English, French
Record No. 5 is an English version of this one.
The second volume of the three-part film series on Rwanda investigates Rwanda's colonial past and explores Canada's role in the development of the genocidal ideology that started taking shape in the early 1960s when the country gained its independence and Belgian missionaries fled the country. The film tells the story of Father Claude Simard who was murdered in October 1994 in the Rwandan village of Ruyenzi and Brother François Cardoma(Brothers of Christian Instruction, a lay Catholic order), who was assassinated in Kigali by a six-person commando squad. Besides interviews with victims of the genocide as well as perpetrators, the film features interviews with: Brother François Cardinal, Father Georges Henri Leveque, Christine Stewart (Canadian politician), Grégoire Kayibanda (the first elected President of the Republic of Rwanda), Ltd. Celestin Kayitenkule, Capt. Tim Leesberg (Canadian United Nations Assistant Mission in Rwanda [UNAMIR]), Major General Guy De Tousignant (Commander UNAMIR), Paul Kagame (Former Minister of Defense and Former Vice-President of Rwanda), and Ltd. Wilson Gamesirire.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: French, Kinyarwanda
"Sitting on a Volcano" is the first in a three-part series on Rwanda by independent reporters Daniele Lacourse and Yvan Patry. In this report, Lacourse and Patry trace the exodus of Hutus who fled Rwanda to take refuge in neighboring countries. The reporters discuss the difficulties of life in the refugee camps, focusing on camps in the Democratic Republic of Congo near Goma, where thousands are falling victim to daily violence and disease. United Nations officials Chris Janowski, Guy De Tousignant and Luc Andre Racineare are interviewed. The report also focuses on assurances by the Rwandan government that it is safe for refugees to return home. "Sitting on a Volcano" criticizes the international community for continuing to feed the killers in these refugee camps outside of Rwanda while failing to acknowledge grave human rights violations in Rwanda. The report concludes by making the case that until those responsible for the genocide are brought to justice, Rwanda cannot begin to heal itself.
Air Date: 1996 Aug. 22
Producer: BBC: Giselle Fortenier
Original Language: English, French
This video features Françoise Saunier, an attorney with Doctors Without Borders, interviewing François-Xavier Nsanzuwera, the Rwandan Chief Prosecutor, and Joseph Matata, a human rights activist in Rwanda. Both Nsanzuwera and Matata discuss their disillusionment with the lack of intervention on the part of the international community in the face of the Rwandan genocide. Both of these individuals also focus on how they took it upon themselves to gather evidence that could help bring people responsible for the genocide to justice. Saunier seeks to show how the UN has yet to come any closer on delivering the justice promised to the Rwandans and the world. While Saunier visits the United Nations in New York and in the Hague, Mr. Matata completes his report in Belgium. François Xavier conducts interviews in Rwandan prisons, making sure there is sufficient evidence to convict, prosecute and start trials. At the time of this report, Doctors Without Borders and 42 other agencies had been ordered to leave Rwanda for political bias. The report also shows the International Tribunal's announcement of the first eight indictments for genocide. The report cites that no arrests have been made, however, and trials for those accused of genocide-related crimes in Rwanda have yet to take place.
Air Date: 1991
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: French, Kinyarwanda
The debate is taking place in Belgium in August 1991. The subject of the discussion is on the multiparty system. For a period of thirty years the Rwandan government operated under one party system (the Mouvement républicain national pour la démocratie et le développement [MRND]). On June 10th 1991 president Habyarimana declared a multiparty system. The focus in this debate is on the creation of a National Assembly, a process which was not provided in the constitution but reclaimed by opposition parties. In the debate there is a balance between Rwandan scholars and Belgian experts. The Habyarimana's government at that time of the debate was represented by Francois Ngarukiyintwari, Rwandan ambassador in Belgium.
Air Date: 1996 Aug. 28
Producer: Theophraste France3
Original Language: Kinyarwanda
The report begins with three people accused of genocide explaining that they were forced to commit their crimes. Their testimony is overlapped with footage of various atrocities. The camera then follows Madeleine, a Tutsi returning to Rwanda from France. The experience of the returning refugee is one of joy at being "back home" and one of sorrow upon learning who has died. Thérèse is another Tutsi who fled during the genocide and returns to find her home destroyed and her family dead. She confronts the sister of the man she believes led the attack against her family. The report then gives a brief history of Tutsi/Hutu animosity emphasizing the role of the Belgian colonial government and the Catholic Church. However, the report's main focus is on the role of the French government starting in 1975 which marks the first of several military pacts signed between the French and Habyarimana. Through a series of interviews and photos of signed documents the report builds a compelling case against the French. Mitterand, in particular, becomes quite involved in Rwanda's affairs and when the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) launches its first invasion in October 1990, the French are there to halt their advance. The French mission is called NORWA and it does not call for direct involvement in the conflict. But several eyewitnesses as well as official Rwandan documents point to a French presence on the frontlines. The report then shifts its focus to the testimony of Janvier Afrika who alerted authorities to the existence of an organization within the government called Network Zero. Network Zero is purported to have carried out political assassinations and to have overseen the development of highly incendiary propagandist newspapers like Kangura. The documentary also points to the speech by Leon Mugesera in November of 1992, which along with Nahimana's creation of Radio Télévision Libre des Mille Collines (RTLM) in 1993 helped set the tone for the genocide. The report continues with a series of interviews of people like Bagosora and Hutu who have found refuge in the safety zone provided by the French in Operation Turquoise. Everyone maintains their innocence and blames the violence on the population's violent reaction to Habyarimana's death. The report does point out that the violence in the south, in Butare, did not begin until two weeks after the president's death. The documentary ends on the theme of justice. The chief prosecutor of Kigali points out the difficulties in prosecuting such a large number of accused. Indeed almost everyone is a victim or a perpetrator of genocide. Conditions in the Kigali prison are terrible and the process of bringing people to trial is very slow. The final question is whether genocide in Africa bears as much weight as one in Europe.
Air Date: 1996 Aug. 29
Producer: David Harrison
Original Language: English
This video explores the extent of France's involvement in Rwanda and the degree to which it can be implicated in the events that lead to the genocide. It also attempts to explain why a European power would take such a strong interest in the affairs of such a small central African nation. The report begins by explaining that President Francois Mitterrand sent French troops into Rwanda, a country it had never colonized in October 1990 following the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) invasion. According to various officials, France wanted to maintain relations with a French-speaking Rwanda and feared the effects of an RPF-influenced government. The video traces the genesis of the RPF back to the refugees who fled Rwanda during the Hutu revolution in the early 1960's. Many of the Tutsi went to Uganda where they learned English and began planning their eventual return to their homeland. The report hypothesizes that the French worried that the United States overly influenced the RPF. The French accused Paul Kagame, the RPF leader, of being little more than a CIA product. Kagame was in fact invited to the states to receive military training. The report then explains that the French qualified the RPF invasion in 1990 as a terrorist act and sent French troops in to evacuate foreign expatriates. However, Panorama learned that among the French deployment there was a strong training contingency, intelligence experts and military advisors. The French maintained a military presence in Rwanda until the signing of the Arusha agreements in 1993. The report reflects on the fact that France provided more aid and development money to Rwanda during the Habyarimana regime than any other European power. However, since the new RPF government has taken power, France has all but abandoned this once favored nation. The report includes numerous interviews with government officials including President Mitterrand's son, Jean-Christophe Mitterrand, Presidential Adviser on African Affairs from 1988 to 1992. Jean Carbonare who lead the International Human Rights Commission mission to Rwanda in 1993 and was President of "Operation Survie" immediately following the genocide, is quoted as saying "I am very critical of my country before, during and after the genocide. There is a great deal of suspicion about the delivery of arms. You can't on one hand give arms to those responsible for genocide and then say we take pity on the Rwandan people, we'll give you humanitarian aid. I think this is a question of consistency. I'm very unhappy, as a Frenchman, to see my country not have that consistency."
Air Date: 1996 July 20
Producer: BBC Panorama
Original Language: Kinyarwanda
"This video shows a historical background to the Rwandan conflict since the colonial time to its 1994 genocide.
The document looks into the first year of independence, after a description of Habyarimana regime and his political party the Mouvement républicain national pour la démocratie et le développement (MRND). The video describes the militia organization, their training, and sites of genocide. The document shows
the interim government led by Theodore Sindikubwabo. The reporter in this video accuses this interim government of organizing and carrying out the genocide."
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters Sans Frontières
Original Language: French, Kinyarwanda
In the video Bagosora explain his role in previous government and denies his involvement in death squad killing before and during the genocide. When asked if he could go to the international criminal tribunal and answer questions in relation to the war and his involvement, Bagosora approved the idea of the international tribunal and agreed to stand trial if accused. But he refused to stand trial in Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) court he accused to be judge and jury. Bagosora argued that the security council caused all problems in Rwanda by imposing an arm embargo on the Forces Rwandaises de Défense (FAR) army. Bagosora also accused the international community for conspiracy by collaborating with the Tutsi minority group. Bagosora denies accusation for having said in Arusha that he was going to prepare an apocalypse if the Arusha Peace agreement was going to be implemented.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters Sans Frontières
Original Language: French, Kinyarwanda
"In this tape Nahimana talks about his professional life as an African historian and his role as the director of Radio Télévision Libre des Mille Collines (RTLM).
In the interview Nahimana denies the accusation that he failed to used his position as the director of RTLM to stop the journalists from broadcasting incitement and hate messages through RTLM radio. Nahimana accuses Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) for trying to discredit him because of his historical research and publication on Rwanda which didn't please the Tutsi community.
Air Date: 1996 Sep. 12
Producer: RTBF-Charleroi, JT
Original Language: French, Kinyarwanda
"A psychological search into the human soul. Lindsey Hilsum had launched a full investigation reaching the core of evil. Her analysis was that the core of Rwanda was rotten and even the church which was supposed to be the "moral authority, the most powerful institution in the land had a rotten center."
"You haven't yet discovered man, neither in his greatness nor in his misery," Ntezimana, a theologian, told Lindsey Hilsum. His theory was that the missionaries had a historical responsibility. They brought the Christian revelation, which reinforced the traditional attitude of naiveté. It was easy not to question the teachings of churches. Everything the priest said was taken as truth. That behavior was the prelude to genocide. The church in this search for truth was accused of encouraging the evil that took root in the hearts of the Rwandans. Orders were blindly carried out. Many churches are under investigation for their participation in the killings. Some nuns and priests fled to Zaire. Others have adopted the denial attitude, few Catholic leaders spoke out during genocide, and many were helpless witnesses to the carnage.
Hilsum goes deeply into the problem, questioning herself and her actions during the genocide. Hilsum was present at the time of the massacres and found it hard to help anyone because "she wasn't brave enough, or strong enough to protect them." The important thing is not to pass judgment on the people but to investigate the reason that lead to the madness.
Air Date: 1999 Sep. 16
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: Kinyarwanda
The tape shows the map of Kibuye, then moves to an aerial view of the town for approximately 30 minutes. The rest of the video shows parts of the church where the massacres took place, mass graves sites, a home that housed priests. A few interviews conducted by Dan Gowen, Sara Darehshori, Pierre Heuts and Sjouk Eekmaa, mostly inaudible because of the bad acoustics. The video ends in an aerial view of the trip back to Kigali.
Air Date: 1996 Sep. 12
Producer: Reporters Sans Frontières
Original Language: French
The tape contains interviews conducted by Reporteurs Sans Frontières to investigate the allegations that Rwandan Ex-Forces Rwandaises de Défense (FAR) tortured the journalists. The tape focuses on Janvier Africa. Janvier Africa claims to be ex-member of death squad and names all members of the death squad including Captain Simbikangwa. In his interview with Reporteurs Sans Frontières, Capt. Simbikangwa denies all accusations. The tape contains other journalists' interviews discussing their mistreatment and torture by Capt. Simbikangwa and his staff.
Air Date: 1996 Sep. 13
Producer: Reporters Sans Frontières
Original Language: French, Kinyarwanda
"The tape contains interviews conducted by Reporteurs Sans Frontières to investigate the Rwandan journalists' torture
The tape focuses on Janvier Africa. Janvier Africa claims to be ex-member of a death squad and names all the associates in that organization. Captain Simbikangwa denies the accusation that he was a member of the death squad.
The tape also contains interviews with other journalists who claimed to have been tortured by the secret service agents in Habyarimana government."
Air Date: 1996 Sep. 17
Producer: Reporters Sans Frontières
Original Language: French
"The tape contains interviews with Gahigi Gaspard. Gaspard explains how Radio Télévision Libre des Mille Collines (RTLM) radio was created. In the interview Gahigi questions the credibility of Janvier Africa in his claims. The same tape contains an interview with Rangira Adrien explaining his work as a freelance journalist for Kanguka.
Air Date: 1996
Producer: Wild Heart Production
Original Language: French, Kinyarwanda
"Who was responsible for the death of the 10 Belgian soldiers? Was it an error of command? Death was not caused by fatality but it occurred out of negligence. Parents, families and most of the Belgians want the truth behind their death. They want to find out who was responsible. It is true that after the president's plane was shot down, the prime suspects
were the Belgians in the eyes of the Rwandans. Rumors were quickly fed of the Belgian responsibility in shooting down the plane. The ten Belgian soldiers killed were assigned to protect the Prime Minister Agathe Uwilingiyimana. Col. Luc Marcha the commander of the Belgian soldiers was accused of failing to give clear instruction to his soldiers"
Air Date: 1996 June 18
Producer: US Committee for Refugees
Original Language: English
This video is based on an investigation of Rwandan refugee camps in Uganda carried out by the U.S. Committee for Refugees. A narrator provides a brief background of Rwanda's colonial history, its ethnic make-up and the events that led to the current conflict between the predominantly Tutsi forces of the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) and Habyarimana's primarily Hutu regime. The video includes footage from inside the camps and short interview sessions with some of the refugees. It ends with footage of soldiers and a call for negotiations that include participation of the exiled refugees.
Air Date: 1996 Oct.25
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: French
"The tape contains a Belgian television report on social and political situation in Rwanda during and after the genocide.
In the tape, Belgian reporter discusses the killing in Ndera hospital after the Belgian soldiers left the premises. The journalist discusses also the life of street children in Kigali. The tape contains interviews with some Rwandan residents in Belgium. The tape contains also some Belgian government official such as Melchior Watheler discussing the assassination of Belgian soldiers in Rwanda."
Air Date: 1996 Oct.01
Producer: Independent Television News Production for Channel Four
Original Language: English, Kinyarwanda, French/Subtitles: English
This Rwanda Nightmare is a story of a journey of extremists tearing the country apart, a true account of the numbing horror that was Rwanda in 1994. Does anyone understand what happened in this part of the world? According to Catherine Bond the "agony seemed to the outside world a senseless tribal bloodbath war" that had no impact on the international community and reinforced its lack of responsiveness toward the killings. However, to many observers and experts on this central part of Africa, the legacy of colonialism fueled the conflict and exacerbated the division between Hutu and Tutsi which became the source of tension since the country's independence in 1992. The conviction that the other is the plague, that the only way is the eradication of a no ethnic but just socially and economically different group " If you want to eliminate rats, you have to start with the little ones", or that " Their progeny are the rats of the future" make one wonder who and what reinforced the hatred that became so embedded in the Rwanda culture. The government had its fair share of the blame by using a strategy that that systematically destroyed the bonds of family and friends. By doing so it spread the blame to tens of thousands of Rwandan to alleviate its own guilt.
Air Date: 1996 Oct.05
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: Kinyarwanda
"CDR Demonstrations of October 18th, 1992 condemns Museveni for helping Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) and Nsengiyaremye's government
A few clashes with security on the way to the demonstration site. CDR leaders' speeches in Kinyarwanda focus on negative criticisms. Crowd cheering and singing CDR songs containing propaganda against other political parties."
Air Date: 1992 Nov. 2
Producer: Television Rwandaise
Original Language: Kinyarwanda
The tape contains a political debate hosted by the Rwandan journalist Venuste Nshimiyimana. The debate is between Twagiramungu representing MDR and CDR leaders. The debate turns around the CDR's accusation of collaborating with Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) and selling out Rwanda.
Air Date: 1992
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: Kinyarwanda
This video of a CDR rally in Butare was taken from a hand-held camera, featuring speeches of CDR leaders on the principals and ideology of the CDR. The speakers are cheered by a quite large crowd of members using words such as CDR power.
Air Date: 1996 Oct.07
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: English
Synopsis: A short video on Ntarama massacre site. Skulls and skeletons rotting away and being exposed to the human eye. Ntarama was the site one of the most horrible massacre that took place in 1994. The official figure mentions 5000 people gathered and killed in the church. Only few survivors. No sound just images.
Air Date: 1996 Oct.09
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: Kinyarwanda
Several eye-witness from Mugonero in Kibuye are discussing the killing in church. All witnesses claim that Ntakirutimana called Nkuranga, Kajongi, and Sebihe to come out from hiding to join the rest of the Tutsi gathered in church to be killed together. The witnesses are accusing Ntakirutimana and his son of collaborating with the militias under the leadership of Ruzindana. When asked what these witnesses would like to see the international community doing specially the USA , one witness's wish is to bring Ntakirutimana back to his village to let the people look into his eyes and to give to him the opportunity to see that all Tutsi didn't die. All people interviewed in this tape accuse Ntakirutimana of failing to protect them and his son of collaborating with the militias and the government soldiers in the killings. One person in the interview claims having seen Gerard Ntakirutimna carrying a gun and killing people.
Air Date: 1996 Oct.07
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: Kinyarwanda
The video contains views of massacre sites in Kaduha, Mugina. The second part of the video shows views of refugees in camps. The reporter discusses the condition of refugees in camp. The refugee being interviewed discusses the horror they faced before leaving their village.
Air Date: 1996 Oct.07
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: English
Roger Winter s a freelance reporter accompanied by Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) soldiers and some government officials visited massacre site in Bugesera, the Rwanda and Burundi border, the Rusumo water fall, and many other places in Rwanda. Interviews with local residents are translated by an RPF soldier. Amongst people being interviewed there is a large number of children.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: Kinyarwanda
1. ICTR private investigator, Jan Wilken, filmed local workers hired by Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) soldiers to excavate mass graves near Kabuha in the region of Gikongoro. Scaffolds made of wood have been built and the bones and other remains are piled on to them. The RPF wants these testimonies of the genocide as proof of the horror that took place in 1994. They also want foreign journalists to include these images in their reports so that the whole world can witness the result of the terrible events of 1994. According to an ICTR investigator about 10.000 or more were murdered in and around this site.
2. We get an aerial view of a church in the region of Kabuha that was site of one of the massacres.
3. A burial ceremony in Mugina, Gikongoro. They are burying the remains of victims of the genocide that were dug up from some of the mass graves. A speech is addresses to survivors and family members of the murdered. Huge white plastic bags were brought to receive the bodies exhumed from opened mass graves to be reburied properly. The bodies were first lined up in smaller bags before finally being lowered into the ground.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: [not available]
In this scene along the road, Hutu militiamen are killing a group of Tutsi while two women plead for their life. After about fifteen minutes (according to reporters) the women are murdered too. According to a documentary by Anna Der Wee, "The Dead are Still Alive" the scene takes place in Kigali near the old French school.
Air Date: 1995
Producer: Wild Heart Production, BRTN - Panorama Belgium
Original Language: Dutch, Flemish, French/Subtitles: Dutch
"The documentary begins with Habyarimana's plane crash then moves slowly through the weeks that followed that fatal day which launched the violent response to years of immense tension and social-economic differences between the Tutsi and Hutu.
Evacuation of foreigners around the 10th of April. Evacuation of a psychiatric center where a number of Rwandans had sought refuge. However, they are not rescued by the Belgian and French convoys sent to evacuate the foreign nationals.
April 17; Kigali Airport. Preparing to evacuate foreigners.
April 23; trucks loaded with refugees head for the border.
April 28; a massive exodus towards the Tanzanian border.
May 1; life in the Benaco camp.
May 18; the reporters return to Rwanda. Terror and desolation reign.
June 9; somewhere in northern Rwanda.
June 23; the arrival of the first French military contingent as part of Operation Turquoise. Though its intent is as a humanitarian mission there is fear it will become a military intervention and that the French will side with the Hutu.
July 4; most of Rwanda is now in the hands of the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF).
Jean Kambanda, Prime Minister of the interim government, accuses the RPF of shooting down Habyarimana's plane on April 6, 1994.
July 18; Goma refugee camp. At the instigation of Hutu elders, young thugs confiscate food delivered by NGOs and the international community. They distribute the food as they see fit.
A leader of the Interahamwe gives a speech."
Air Date: 1994
Producer: BBC
Original Language: English, Kinyarwanda, French/Voice-over: English
1. Four weeks of fighting and nearly 1/4 of a million have been killed. The UN is condemned for pulling out.
2. A history of United Nations intervention in Africa. The first intervention took place in 1960 in the Congo. The latest UN mission in Somalia was highly criticized. The American led force switched from humanitarian in scope to military following the deaths of several American soldiers. The Americans are accused of acting outside the control and command of the UN even though the UN ultimately had to take political responsibility. The operation was characterized by a "total lack of peacekeeping experience."
3. (1994 May 10) The focus here is the refugee problem on Tanzania's border, problems with water and sanitation. Mixed Tutsi/Hutu couples are running from the problems in Rwanda and living in the same squalid conditions as everyone else in the camps.
In the wake of failed mediations and negotiations, Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) soldiers have continued advancing towards Kigali.
The RPF is opposed to foreign countries meddling in the war.
The UN believes that a peacekeeping force in Rwanda should be composed of African troops. Tanzania is one of the countries expected to participate if African troops are called upon to intervene. The head of the Tanzanian army comes for a visit to the UN headquarters in Kigali. He met with an RPF colonel. The Tanzanian General is unhappy about all the Rwandan corpses littering Tanzanian water sources.
4. (1994 May 13) The focus is on the Rwanda/Burundi border: the one has descended into hell the other is teetering on the edge of anarchy. Most of the Tutsi in Gitarama are dead; the survivors are merely waiting to die. It is argued that the Hutu were overwhelmed by propaganda from the radio urging them to kill their Tutsi neighbors. There is footage of a village outside of Gitarama. It is difficult to see what the international community could do to make a difference in the face of such horror.
5. (1994 Aug. 14) Questions are asked about the effectiveness of the UN peacekeeping mission.
Footage of a massive exodus of refugees. People are dying from exhaustion. International aid agencies were completely unprepared to deal with the Rwandan tragedy. There are a million refugees on the move in Rwanda. A great deal of help is needed to help with the refugee problem.
The RPF has taken Gisenyi. Footage of the Rwandan Army's weapons piled up at the border with Zaire: ammunition, weapons and grenades. Zairian troops helped disarm the Rwandan forces as they crossed the border. Still many weapons have found their way into the camp.
Fighting at night has led to a horrific following day. Many refugees were killed after having reached what they thought was a safe haven. A hastily prepared relief mission has been set up to tend to the wounded.
Footage of what are now permanent camps set up along the edge of lake Kivu. The refugees do not trust the new RPF government
6. (1994 June 29) (Newsnight) Kigali has been under siege since April and now the RPF has captured the last two government strongholds.
Footage of French troops evacuating orphans and civilians. Nuns are being escorted away from the front lines. The French intervention has led to a great deal of controversy. The French deny that Operation Turquoise is anything but a humanitarian mission.
The militiamen believe the French are on their side.
The RPF is still advancing towards the border with Zaire. Gikongoro is under a curfew. The rebels are in a festive mood. There is footage of another exodus this time coming out of Ruhengeri.
Footage of an orphanage for children who escaped death. Footage of shelters to rehabilitate the killers. There have been 2000 deaths in Nyarubuye parish.
- Twagiramungu: "There will be retribution in Rwanda. We can't tolerate impunity."
7. (1994 July 4) (BBC news) Most of the cities in Rwanda are now under rebel control. Only southwestern Rwanda remains in government hands.
Air Date: 1994
Producer: BBC
Original Language: English
1. Hit lists were drawn in the camps, including the names of some aid workers. Lawlessness and lack of control are the rule in the camps. Food is distributed through Hutu militiamen. Relief workers think it is time to leave.
2. (1994 Dec. 25) Oxfam in refugee camps. Kids are being trained to duck. The perpetrators are in complete control.
3. (1994 Dec. 28) In Kigali's central jail each prisoner denies having participated in the genocide. Twagiramungu: "We want to judge." François Karera: "Many things happen in the course of war."
4. (1994 Dec. 28) Talk of reconciliation, stability and security for all. Helping to rebuild schools.
5. (18/02/95) Rwandan Army youth recruits. Training schools in the camps.
6. (1995 Feb. 18) Ntarama site. Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) is winning the war.
7. (1995 Apr. 6) This Kigali prison built to hold 1500 is currently home to 8.000 inmates accused of mass murders and genocide. They all await trial. There are 30.000 suspects on Rwanda's death Row. Hutu begin to fight back.
8. (1994 Apr. 6) The president's plane crash. The assumption: an assassination. Nyarubuye church. "There's a need to provide legal experts."
"Nothing makes sense here without an understanding of the genocide … I would say that most people in the mission would do anything to avoid having to confront the genocide." The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) mission is a waste of time, energy and money. But worst of all it is a waste of hope." Rakiya: "… concentrating on human rights abuses."
"The International Tribunal created in November 1994 has no investigative team in Rwanda. The lone prosecutor in his empty Kigali office personifies the hypocrisy of current international policy with respect to the Rwandan tragedy: A parody of justice with no power and no muscle."
Goldstone at The Hague: "The process must be sped up."
9. (1995 Mar. 15) (Newsnight) Refugees in eastern Zaire engaged in military training in the middle of the night. Kaminyola camp has become a training camp for militiamen instead of a place of refuge for civilians. The United Nations is very concerned about the situation. Recruiting combatants from refugee camps is against UN regulations. Troops hidden and official are training and they are armed. They believe the army has only lost a battle, not the war.
In refugee camps Ngeze gathers the youth around him and feeds their appetite for war against "Tutsi oppression." He writes: "We know our enemy and we know where he lives. Every one of us has to get ready to save our country with any weapon he can lay his hands on… There is no question of waiting… saying 'when shall we go back?' we have no time to wait. We must do our best. Even if we should die, we shall die in Rwanda, not in a foreign land. We must show the RPF that they made a mistake when they shared our country out amongst themselves."
10. (1995 Apr. 22) Kibeho camp is home to 80.000 refugees.
Aid workers try to reach the casualties. Hutu refugees refuse to return, as they fear retaliation from the new RPF government, dominated mostly by Tutsi.
Air Date: 1994
Producer: BBC
Original Language: English
The BBC Newsnight has invited many guests to the studio, all specialists on Africa, to reflect upon and dissect the Rwandan crisis. At the time this special program was aired the crisis was still going on. 20.000 had recently died of cholera in the refugee camps; 100.000 children were without parents or family; the international community was trying to recognize the new government. A myriad of political and diplomatic maneuvering had already taken place on the Rwandan crisis: hence an offer from Strasbourg to oversee the investigation into Rwandan war crimes; an Italian pledge of 17.000.000 dollars to be sent to Rwanda; Germany had sent 500 hospital beds, the French were prepared to leave the country while the British were arriving; the US had recognized the new Rwandan government (the Rwandan Patriotic Front [RPF]) and announced that they would be putting 200 people on the ground in Kigali in an effort to inspire confidence in the refugees to come back. The program was devoted to the analysis of a country devoured by rage: roots of the killings, the international response to the problem and its failure to come up with a solution, would the United Nations deliver? The program focused also on how the West is dealing with post-colonial Africa. The program was interspersed with reports on Rwanda by BBC reporters. John Simpson in particular was featured on the show.
Air Date: 22 Aug. 1994
Producer: Mike Robinson
Original Language: English
"Can a nation put an end to its culture of murder? Stephen Bradshaw opens this documentary with a provocative question and analysis. The documentary focuses first on Rwandan refugees crowding the Goma camp in Zaire where approximately 200 orphans rejected and abandoned had arrived after walking for 70 kilometers. Neither the French (Operation Turquoise) nor UNAMIR came to their rescue. The children, obvious victims of the adults' folly, were found lost in the fields and brought from the bushes where they had been hiding for days. Some adult refugees stricken by hunger returned to scavenge their own abandoned maize and tea fields, but many others fear reprisals from the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) and so prefer to stay in the squalid conditions of the refugee camps in Zaire. The conditions "defy a journalist's clichès" with no water available and corpses that lay near the camps waiting to be picked up by trucks. 43.000 have died and bodies are taken to the roads for collection. However, the truth is, most of the bodies remain untouched close to campsites being used by the international press.
Another major problem is the violent and chaotic situation in which everyone is living. A culture of murder means that the law lies in the hands of young thugs walking around with machetes and maintaining an atmosphere of threatening violence. Knife fights over the food distribution process are quite common. Bradshaw maintains that the village system has moved as a whole into the camps. Everyone obeys the Hutu elders. Food goes to them first. Grain, which is desperately needed, is taken by force then distributed the way the elders see fit. Aid workers are aware of who sets the rules and the United Nations has no illusion about who is really in control. These Hutu elders, many of whom bear responsibility for the massacres back in Rwanda, have brought with them their own system of justice. They send out thugs to control the rest of the refugees. A United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) official acknowledges that among the refugees they are helping there are murderers. The very same people who helped initiate the violence with their propaganda on the radio are now holding the refugees hostage in the camps. "When you have 1 million people in a camp it is impossible to stop and ask them: 'Have you committed a crime?'" Yet many of them are afraid of returning, preferring to risk dying of malaria, cholera, dysentery rather than at the hands of the RPF. When asked about revenge, Paul Kagame denies any desire for summary executions maintaining instead that "There are no reprisals. What the refugees fear most now is to be brought to Justice."
Air Date: 1996 Oct.30
Producer: BBC
Original Language: English
In this video Lindsey Hilsum returns to Rwanda where she was a journalist before and during the first few weeks of the genocide. She attempts to find her former driver, Evariste, who disappeared on the 17th of April, 1994. She comes across Monika Uwimana, an old friend who survived the genocide but lost her five children. While visiting the Kigali Prison she sees another former acquaintance, [name redacted] imprisoned for allegedly participating in the genocide. Miragihanga is a man she meets in a Kigali neighborhood. He is a Hutu who saved Tutsi lives. Hilsum does finally discover the truth about Evariste, he was hunted down by members of the Interahamwe while hiding in a house with his brothers. The tape ends as Monika reflects on the fact that she has nothing to live for anymore.
Air Date: 1997 Dec. 14
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: Kinyarwanda
The tape contains discussions in meeting between Bagosora and UNAMIR officers debating on the evacuation of orphans during the war. The issue was to evacuate the children from the Forces Rwandaises de Défense (FAR) held area crossing the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) held area to airport. Bagosora's argument was that the children were to be accompanied by the militias (Interahamwe) through the area held by RPF soldiers. The UNAMIR representatives suggested that children would be accompanied by the militias to the government held territory then from there UNAMIR would take over and take the children to the airport. There is no information indicating which plan was adopted. The second part of this tape contains an interview with Col. Gatsinzi discussing how after Habyarimna died Bagosora was in charge of organizing meetings with high army officer s and tried to convince them to take over the leadership of the country. As the army refused this suggestion and chose to follow the Arusha peace agreement, Col. Gatsinzi reports that Col. Bagosora established his secret network with the president guard division to try to overthrow the transitional government. Several eye witnesses discuss the massacre in Butare. Some of these witnesses argued that the massacre started after Sindikubwabo's speech in Butare and Robert Kajuga's visit the national leader of the militia Interahamwe. The reporter continued to Goma where he met with Sindikubwabo Theodore. When asked to comment on his speech in Butare, Sindikubwabo argued that in his speech he reminded the population to focus on their daily works. Sindikubwabo argued that people could have misinterpreted his words that his intension was to incite people for the massacre he explained. In Goma the journalist interviewed also Bagosora on the existence of death squad responsible of much of the killing in 1994. In Kigali prison the journalist met with Janvier Africa who claimed to ex-member of the death squad. The sketch he gave to officers from the International Human right Federation Officers led to the first mass grave in Rwanda. The reporter comments also on Mugesera's speech, the journal Kangura, Radio Télévision Libre des Mille Collines (RTLM) and other sources of incitement in preparation of the genocide. The journalist also visited some of the FAR soldiers in camps and reports on their training and the possibility of returning to Rwanda by force. Aside from dead bodies along the road, the tape shows Kambanda distributing guns to the population and the training of militias for civil defense. The tape contains Kambanda introducing the new government. There is also a CNN report on arm deal in Nairobi to arm the militias in Congo to range an attack to Rwanda.
Air Date: 1999 Aug. 09
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: French, Kinyarwanda
United Nations footage of Rwanda and Burundi. The video describes the role of the UN as a peacekeeping force in the most troubled areas of the world. It starts with news items about the Central African region and moves on to the UNAMIR peacekeeping force at the UN headquarters in Kigali. The main focus of the video is on the visit of the then newly appointed UN High Commissioner for Human Rights to the Central African region, Mr. Jose Ayala Lasso to Rwanda and Burundi up to his departure. It focuses on his meetings with representatives of both parties in the conflict: Bagosora and Bizimungu on the one hand and Major General Paul Kagame on the other. He holds a press conference in Burundi and he visits the UN headquarters in Kigali as a human rights observer.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: English
Kigali Airport: French military helicopters landing at the airport.
People gathered and waiting to be evacuated by the French.
Tutsi being slaughtered at whim by the presidential Guard and militiamen.
Shots of French or Belgian troops evacuating foreigners alternate with corpses lining the streets of Kigali.
United Nations and other NGOs, mainly the Red Cross, leaving Rwanda.
French military on the alert and patrolling certain strategically important areas.
French military calling out the names from a list of people to be evacuated.
Military planes evacuating foreigners."
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reuters, WTN, BBC
Original Language: English, Dutch, French, Kinyarwanda
1. A young militiaman with a machete standing by corpses scattered all around the streets of Kigali. Others roaming around and checking the identity of passersby.
United Nations vehicles and what seems to be Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) vehicles circulating in the streets of Kigali.
Shots heard in the distance (heavy artillery) and RPF soldiers covering their ears.
Refugees walking down the road. Kigali by night. RPF soldiers holding a Kalashnikov and Kambanda being interviewed.
Bodies piled up in trucks. More refugees and their belongings.
2. Dutch TV reports on corpses floating in the river. Shot at the border of Burundi. Kanyaru-Haut.
Evacuation of Belgian nuns and missionaries. Convoys of refugees.
Kayanza, where the wounded were gathered.
3. People bathing in the river while sanitary workers pick up the corpses washed up on the shores of the Akagera River, wrap them in plastic bags and load them onto trucks.
Refugee camp where hundreds of abandoned children await their fate.
Overcrowded camps with unbelievable conditions. Soldiers, maybe Forces Rwandaises de Défense (FAR) sharing what little space is left. "We can't go back at this point," declared a soldier.
Children and infants being transferred to a different camp away from the adults.
4. Water supplies on the border with Zaire. US soldiers working on a project to bring water to the camps in Zaire.
5. Refugees on the road to exile. Camps teeming with life, Kigali deserted.
6. Mass exodus of Rwandan refugees crossing Zaire's border. The UN calls it an exodus of biblical proportions" generating atrocious conditions and posing health problems in camps. An epidemic of cholera is killing about 3.000 refugees a day. Most refugees refuse to return home in fear of reprisal attacks at the hands of the RPF.
Remains of the president's plane after the crash on April 6, 1994.
Another shot of the presidential guard looting and killing Tutsi.
French and Belgian paratroopers in Rwanda to evacuate foreigners.
The Belgian government withdrew its contingent urging the international community to follow its example.
RPF advancing towards Kigali.
Benaco camp in Tanzania where 200.000 people created a refugee camp.
UN voted to send a contingent of peacekeeping forces but major member states were reluctant to get involved.
7. Corpses obstructing Kigali roads. Those who couldn't flee were murdered by machete wielding Interahamwe.
A small boy moves under a pile of corpses where he was hiding. RPF troops rescue him.
Air Date: 1996
Producer: Wild Heart Production, BRTN - Panorama
Original Language: French
"Les oubliés de Kigali" is an RTBF program discussion Belgian soldiers killed in Rwanda. The tape contains several eye witnesses. Jean Luc Habyarimana describes how the plane which killed his father came down. Faustin Twagiramungu also comments on that incident. A white father journalist Guy Tennis Theunis comments also on the night of the killing.
Romeo Dallaire UNAMIR commandant in Kigali comments on the killing of the Belgian soldiers and his discussion with Col. Bagosora in the interview accuses Dallaire for failing to act on time. Dallaire argues that all Bagosora 's claims were not true. The tape contains also the assassination of a Canadian priest Claude Simard. Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) is being accused. JP Chretien discusses his book on the media of genocide. Chretien argues that the genocide was not a sudden act of violence. Georges Rugiu is a Belgian citizen in the video denies the allegation that he used Radio Télévision Libre des Mille Collines (RTLM) to incite the population for the killing of Belgian soldiers. Col Marchal commandant of Belgian Soldiers is accused of failing to protect Belgian soldiers. Innocent Butera, founder of RDR, discusses the roots of the genocide in Rwanda. The journalist discusses the United Nations' failure to protect people in Rwanda."
Air Date: 1997 July 10
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: French
The tape contains an interview with Bizimana Augustin ex-minister of defense. The interview focuses on the part the army played in massacre, Bizimana acknowledge the killing in Rwanda but argues for the use of the term genocide for both side of the conflict. When asked to explain the reason these killing took place, Col. Bizimana claims the massacre to be the result of an explosion after Habyarimna was killed. Bizimana calls for negotiation with Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF). Bizimana argues that a return by force will be necessary if RPF refused the negotiation. Col. Bizimana thanks the French government for assisting Rwanda but regret that France military involvement couldn't be possible. When asked how he will evaluate the United Nations' role in the conflict, Bizimana replied by stating that United Nations was failing in Rwanda like it failed in Somali. He questioned the credibility of the United Nations in conflict resolution.
Air Date: 1997 July 09
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: English, Kinyarwanda, French/Voice-over: English
"One year after what J. Clancy describes as a genocidal civil war, a CNN crew traveled to Rwanda for investigation. While millions had fled the country, survivors and the dead alike are crying out for justice. A year later the memories are still very fresh and nothing was going to take away the pain that had transformed Rwanda forever. Those crimes, according to some, were inexorably tied to power, to others, a mere tribal bloodbath that "Africa is so famous for."
Tracing back the genocide would entail going back forty and some years ago, to the first Hutu outrage and burst at the Tutsi feudal regime.
The first attempt to peace was signed in Arusha in 1993; Habyarimana reluctantly gave in under international pressure. But that didn't last. The civil war broke seconds after the plane crash that claimed the lives of the presidents of Rwanda and Burundi. It took 100 days of vicious fighting before the 20.000 Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) soldiers brought the Interim government to its knees. Genocide turned Rwanda into a cemetery. The country is littered with mass graves; its churches were and at the time of the report are still filled with the skeletal remains of the women and children who sought shelter but found death. The massacre has left the country deeply scarred. Many survivors remember the slow; agonizing deaths of loved ones along the roadside. Today these same people remain embittered by the international community's indifference to their plight. Clancy suggests that Rwanda's tragedy demands some answers: Who is responsible for the genocide? Members of the interim government deny responsibility and eyewitnesses all concur that the killing was planned in advance and carried out by government officials. One of the United Nations officers said that it was "clear that Bagosora was in charge of the Interahamwe." In Butare alone it was ministers and officials who ordered the killings according to eyewitnesses.
1. Kambanda was recorded passing out arms to militiamen and telling them to use their new guns to kill civilians. Most ministers and journalists are accused of taking part in the massacres.
2. Victims of rape gathered in the maternity ward. Nothing can measure the level of anguish these women feel. It became common for women to walk away from the maternity ward without their babies, living symbols of an ordeal they will never forget. Additionally many of the women have contracted AIDS, which appears to be heading for Rwanda with the strength of an epidemic.
3. Kayishema, a doctor from Kibuye, is under investigation for his role in the genocide. There is outrage at the fact that Kayishema is still free in Zaire while those who were merely following his orders are locked away in prison.
4. There are 8500 inmates in a jail built for a few hundred. The Rwandan judicial system is facing an unprecedented crisis. Rooms are stacked with case files waiting to be reviewed. Lack of attorneys and judges has made the caseload impossible to handle. Each month more prisoners are added to the inmate population. Most of them know they face the death penalty if they are ever tried and found guilty.
5. A CNN crew captures an arms deal on videotape in the courtyard of a hotel in Nairobi, Kenya. There is still a UN arms embargo on Rwanda.
Air Date: 1997 July 28
Producer: Unknown
Original Language: Kinyarwanda
Meeting that gathered the Minister of Information who expressed his concern about the objectivity of RTLM and the president of RTLM, the shareholders included F. Nahimana. They share the same argument that RTLM is an independent radio concerned with reporting news the way it occurs.
Air Date: 1996 Oct. 25
Producer: TF1
Original Language: French
"This tape runs for about 20 minutes. Nahida Nakad of TF1 did the reporting between April and July 1994.
1. First item shows the St. Jean church in Kibuye. Services were still being held despite the sight and smell of decomposing bodies scattered around church grounds. A priest was asked about the smell. He responded that "people are getting used to it."
Images of Tutsi hiding in the hills out of fear of Hutu attacks.
2. Goma in the evening. Surgeons operate on wounded and mutilated children. They were the victims of machete attacks.
Several survivors offer their testimony. Some Tutsi hid in the forests.
3. 94 Tutsi, survivors of various attacks, arrive in Goma. Most of them are young as the old were too fragile to survive their extensive wounds. Alphonsine, a ten year-old girl, is interviewed.
4. Helicopters of the French army evacuate about 40 nuns. A nun is asked whether they feared for their lives. She responds that "on était sur le qui-vive."
A French army officer is interviewed.
5. French soldiers bring jean-Baptiste, a Tutsi survivor, to Kibuye stadium. This was the site of yet another massacre. Jean-Baptiste gives a moving account of the events that took place within the stadium.
6. Reporters arrive at a mission where a number of nuns from St. Marie have taken refuge. One nun maintains that local authorities attempted to protect the nuns from attacks.
7. Reporter comes across several members of the interim government at the Meridien hotel in Gisenyi, a few kilometers from the border with Zaire. One minister proclaims that the "massacres have been spontaneously organized by the population. It is a civilian rebellion."
The minister maintains that there is no militia to speak of. The Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF)'s better equipped but the French presence has served to reassure the government forces.
Air Date: 1994 May 12
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Il faut vérifier que le discours de Kambanda passe en fait à la RTLM.
Kantano commence l'émission avec un appel aux Rwandais de combattre les "Inyenzi", notamment les enfants de Tutsi qui sont partis en 1959. Il parle ensuite de l'extermination imminente des Tutsi dans "le monde entier." Kantano demande aussi que le peuple Rwandais fasse attention à sa réputation internationale et participe à la guerre sans se permettre de piller et tuer n'importe comment. Il termine la face a en soulignant l'importance de la RTLM. La face B est composée entièrement d'un discours du Premier Ministre Jean Kambanda. Il adresse le peuple Rwandais et explique la formation et les objectifs du nouveau gouvernement. Kambanda accuse le FPR d'avoir assassiné le Président Habyarimana et il incite la population à se réunir pour combattre les "Inyenzi" et les enfants de Tutsi qui ont quitté le pays en 1959. Il ne laisse aucun doute qu'il s'agit d'un problème entre les ethnies et que le FPR est composé de Tutsi.
Air Date: 1994 May 16-17
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Unidentified speaker begins by suggesting Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) has massacred 8000 Hutus with the consent of the UN. Georges Ruggiu and unidentified journalist enjoin people in Kigali not to let journalist get interviews or images of their activities, which are apparently compromising.
Kantano previews upcoming interview with a 12 year old RPF soldier. The boy will reveal the RPF's use of collaboration with 'sorcerers' and 'women who suck themselves' and Inkotanyi plans for a massacre in Nyamirambo that will start with the killing of a man called Abdou.
Kantano (1) calls for vigilance at the barriers; (2) tells listeners to watch their neighbors' reaction to the upcoming taped interview, and arrest those neighbors that seem concerned by what the child is saying; (3) calls for the arrest of other Inkotanyi street children bearing a certain mark on their scalp; (4) for an attack to kill Inkotanyi living in huts near Rugunga before they listen to RTLM and flee; (4) for the "arrest" of three specific street children at Kimisagara as well as 30 others. Kantano says the interviewed child should be kept alive.
In an interview with journalists Biziyaremye Thimothe and Kayitare Vianney, the RPF boy soldier claims to have spied on the barriers with other boys bearing grenades, kalachnikovs and pistols. Under interrogation, the boy gives the location of his fellow Inkotanyi: (1) at Gitega on the macadamized road, (2) at Kiyovu, "in front of the houses of whites who keep horses," (3) at Gatenga, (4) "at the marsh near road to Gikongo," (5) at Butamwa, (6) at Byumba, (7) at Jari, (8) at Rebero. Child provides names of family members, reveals that soldiers travel by foot and work with sorcerers and gives specific information about vehicles and weapons used by his fellow Inkotanyi. Interview ends with account of how he and other boys set up booby trap mines to kill Hutu.
Kantano launches another monologue in which: (1) Belgian are called 'sons-of bitches" who car only for women and money, (2) Inkotanyi are described as wild animals that "hunt moles, partridges and cicadas, (3) a prophesy is made that "Inkotanyi will die in our potatoes', (4) FAR soldiers are encouraged to remain in good spirits,(4) the invaders are described as dogs that must be killed before they kill, (5) citizens are encouraged to help FAR soldiers or be taken prisoner by the Inkotanyi, (6) a letter is read from a listener telling of collaboration between the Ugandans, the Belgians, and the "cockroaches." These "cockroaches" (no discrimination made between soldiers and civilians) are being hunted down and killed by FAR soldiers, and this will continue until they accept negotiations.
Side A concludes with personal missives from and to active soldiers. (Side B is blank)
Tape includes strong evidence: direct calls, ethnic slurs, anti-Belgian rhetoric. Suggestion that captured RPF soldiers must reveal name of family members.
Need voice analysis to confirm that the journalist "George is in fact George Ruggiu.
Side B of tape is blank.
Emission highlights a taped interview with captured RPF boy soldier who reveals location of alleged Inkotanyi collaborators in numerous specific locations. Kantano calls for killing of people living in specific huts as well as for the arrest of RPF street children.
Air Date: 1994 May 14
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 12
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
The tape begins with discussion by Simbizi, Bemericki, Bamwanga, and Karamira regarding the objectives sought and roles played by various political parties including the RPF, CDR, and MDR. Bamwanga then announces that no one has fled Kigali and urges listeners to remain on night patrols and on the barriers.
Kantano then begins a long monologue which runs through the end of side A. The monologue goes as follows: (1) Rwandans are united in fighting the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) and foreigners cannot come in and steal what the Rwandans have built; (2) a direct call against four Tutsi in the Kimisagara and Nyakanda area; (3) a call to vigilance on the barriers; (3) a report of Tutsis being shot in Remera and a justification of this on the grounds that Tutsis have encircled and killed people; (4) a report that Tutsis are using people as shields; they are thieves and they kill Hutus with machetes; (5) an attack on Twagiramungu, Kanyarenwe, and Pasteur Bizimungu and an expression of appreciation that Rwandans continue to work together; (6) a warning that Tutsis will track Hutus down and kill them; (7) the Tutsis have lied about taking certain regions; (8) criticisms of the UN.
Side B continues with Kantano's monologue. He states that the transition government is strong and that the Rwandans are recruiting young boys and girls into the army, waiting with machetes to kill the cockroaches. The Tutsis are in Arusha using Ibizungerezi (attractive Tutsi women) to mislead people. RTLM was bombed and broadcasters were injured but the station will continue to broadcast.
Ruggiu replaces Kantano. He indicates the cockroaches are malicious and attacks Twagiramungu. He then speaks about Rwandan history with respect to the Tutsi superiority complex and feudalist aspirations.
Gahigi replaces Ruggiu and speaks of Rwandan delegations going abroad to promote the cause of Rwandan government. He states the delegations will explain that Habyarimana was killed by the RPF, which (1) wanted to take power by force, (2) annulled the Arusha Peace Accords, and (3) has killed innocent people.
Tape contains some strong evidence: direct call, strong accusations of Tutsi atrocities, anti-Belgian statements
Tape labeled April 12, 1994, but in broadcast, date given as April 22 or 23, 1994 (see records 1 and 5); April 22 appears to be correct date.
Need to confirm that "Karamira" is "Frodauld Karamira"
Tape begins with a round table discussion on politics among Simbizi, Bemericki, Bamwanga, and Karamira. Kantano then launches a long monologue in which he accuses the RPF of committing atrocities, justifies killing "cockroaches," and makes a direct call against suspected "cockroaches'. Ruggiu then recalls the historical oppression of Hutus by Tutsis in past centuries and under colonialism. Gahigi ends the broadcast by summarizing how the Rwandan government is explaining the current events to the world.
Air Date: 1994 May 15
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 May 15
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 May 15
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Cette cassette contient des émissions datant du 15 Mai 1994 aussi bien que du 16 Mai.
La face A de la cassette, animée par Gaspard Gahigi, est très courte. Gahigi lance un appel aux les citoyens Rwandais de joindre la FAR dans sa bataille contre les envahisseurs arrogants, de rester vigilants, et de montrer du courage aux barrières. Il raconte qu'un radio émetteur a été saisi d'un Inkotanyi à Munanira, Nyakabanda, et que les citoyens doivent "dénicher l'ennemi partout où il se cache pour qu'ils sachent que nous sommes vigilants." La face B de la cassette est animée par Kantano et Ananie. Kantano critique les hommes politiques hutus d'avoir attendu l'assassinat du président pour commencer leurs discours anti-Tutsi. Puis Ananie fait un rapport sur un nombre de complots couvés par les Tutsi pour conquérir le Rwanda ou le repartitioner pour en créer un pays tutsi. Ananie reprends le microphone et accuse le FPR d'avoir commis des atrocités contre des Hutu (au Stade Amahoro et à l'hôpital Roi Faycal), et suggère aussi qu'il y a des groupes de faux Interahamwe qui ont de fausses listes. Kantano continue; il dit que la tuerie ne doit pas continuer sans discrimination, que les Tutsi qui sont toujours vivants sont peut-être innocents, et que "les jolies femme [tutsi]" ne doivent pas être tuées simplement pour plaire aux jaloux femmes hutus. Puis, Kantano dit aux auditeurs qu'ils doivent "encercler," et "stopper" ces "kamikaze" tutsi.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 22
Producer: Radio Rwanda
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
La date de transmission est incertaine; l'attestation provisoire de trascription donne la date de 17 Mai "1974"; la liste de ICTR donne la date de 17 Mai, 1994.
Cette transcription semble être le même que le numèro 115 (en Englais)
Face B commence avec un monologue d'un animateur non-identifié (peut-être Simbizi)
La face A de la cassette est animée par Georges Ruggiu et Valérie Bemeriki. Pendant l'émission, les animateurs répètent que les Accords d'Arusha sont des accords de guerre, et non de paix, une ruse des "Inyenzi-inkotanyi" pour assujetir la majorité et revenir aux temps des massacres et de la domination Tutsi [avant '59]. Le FPR et Twagiramgu sont à plusieurs reprises accusés du meurtre de Habyarimana: Bemeriki appellent aux citoyen de réagir contre les tueurs comme on réagirait contre les tueurs de son propre père; Ruggiu appelle aux citoyen de prêter main forte à la FAR et d'aider à "netoyer" Kigali et tout le pays des "Inyenzi" — comme le FAR viens de faire sur la colline de Rebero. Les Belges sont aussi critiqués et accusés d'être les perroquet du FPR.
Sur la face B de la cassette, Kantano et Bemeriki dirigent un entretien avec Simbizi (CND) et Froduald Karamira (MDR). Pendant la discussion, un premier animateur accuse les Belges d'une longue liste d'injustices et crimes contre "la majorité." Puis Karamira et Simbizi appellent à la population de s'unir avec l'armée et d'aider à decouvrir tout ennemi qui essaye de se cacher (dans la canalisation, dans les buissons, dans les bananaraies). Les animateurs accusent les Tutsis d'avoir essayé de retourner à la domination économique et politique qu'ils occupaient avant 1959. Les animateurs ajoutent que les Tutsis ont provoqué leurs propre morts. Le FPR est aussi accusé d'avoir tué des Hutu important et d'avoir commis des massacres contre la population.
Air Date: 1994 May 18
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
-la face B est vierge
Ananie commence la face A en déclarant que chaque jour mille réfugiés traversent la frontière pour s'échapper des "Inyenzi." Il souhaite que ces réfugiés s'organisent à la frontière pour qu'ils puissent revenir au Rwanda et participer à la guerre contre les "Inyenzi." Ananie se lance ensuite dans une tirade contre Museveni et les Américains qu'il accuse de soutenir les Tutsi dans leur but d'exterminer les Hutu. Kantano le suit dans un entretien avec Bugingo qui se trouve souvent aux barrières. Ce dernier rapporte que la sécurité à Kigali s'améliore et que la population participe aux rondes nocturnes. Il annonce que les Interahamwe ont du succès dans leur chassent à l'Inkotanyi. Par contre, il déclare que la population ne doit pas utiliser sa position aux barrières, ni le fait d'avoir un fusil, comme prétexte pour voler. Bugingo ajoute que des patrouilles ont été formés pour fouiller les maisons soupçonnées de héberger des "Inyenzi." Kantano continue unmonologue sans Bugingo. Kantano se moque d'abord de Kagame qui a promis de passer la nuit à Kigali. Il annonce ensuuite que les Français vont envoyer des troupes au Rwanda. Il demande alors à la population de ne plus s'entre tuer et ignorer la justice. Il termine l'émission en déclarant que des femmes sorcières sont en train de brûler à Rebero et que la communauté internationale a finalement compris que les "Inyenzi" tuent les gens en les torturant.
Air Date: 1994 May 21
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
La cassette commence avec un dialogue entre Gahigi et Nemeye Ephrem à propos de "ce problème d'éthnicité" à partir duquel les "Inkotanyis" sont accusés d'avoir commis des massacres, tué le président, commencé la guerre, et negocié les Accords d'Arusha. Puis, Gahigi entretiens Claire Kayirange, une fille qui "travaille" à la barrière de Muhima. Elle est louée comme un example pour les autres filles qui doivent, elles-aussi, prendre des armes contre "les petits Inyenzis" et faire "la ronde nocturne." Après une intervention de Nkomati, et un autre d'un animateur francophone non identifié entretiens deux refugiés hutus: Epimaque Abiyingoma (assistant bourgmestre de la commune de Rutare) et Cyriagque Habiyambere. Les deux hommes temoignent sur des nombreuses attrocités commis par les "Inkotanyis" contre la population non tutsi.
Air Date: 1994 May 28
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 May 28
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Kantano is the only speaker on side A of this transcript. Among other things Kantano addresses the refugee problem. He alternately pleads with his listeners to resist fleeing and berates them for leaving. He insists that the Inkotanyi present very little threat to the lives of Rwandans if only the population stays put. Kantano explains that the Inkotanyi use "whirlwind tactics" to hide their small numbers and to scare the Rwandan population into taking flight. In a rage, he calls on people at the check points to check refugees who have left with all their belongings. He refers to them as cowards. Kantano also adresses the Inkotanyi and warns them that they will "be a party without adherents," that no one will be left in half of the communes they have conquered if they do not stop their invasion. He informs them that Rwandans will never allow the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) to rule over them and he urges the population to take up arms against the "Inyenzi." Finally, Kantano also emphasizes that Kigali is not yet in the hands of the "Inyenzi" regardless of all the rumors and misinformation.
Apart from Ananie's brief discussion of the foreign press and his quip that "Kigali has been captured, it has been captured by RFI, the BBC and Radio Muhabura," side B is devoted to Gahigi' interviews with people at various check points throughout Kigali. Gahigi speaks with children, CDR militants, FAR soldiers, militants at the road blocks and several civilians. The interviews give evidence that Kigali is in no danger of falling to the Inkotanyi and that many "Inyenzi" have been killed.
Air Date: 1994 May 28
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 May 29
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Transcript begins mid-sentence with unidentified speaker urging listeners to come "work with RTLM." Those who do not understand that "this war . . . is the final one" and so cannot work "there" [reference is possibly to roadblocks] should be kept away and appointed to "non-confidential and unimportant cases," such as "checking vehicles that have broken down."
After an interruption, transcript begins with Kantano interviewing a Kimicanga resident who claims to have killed 5 Inyenzi thieves in Magerwa. Kantano congratulates the resident, who he calls "Caporal," and asks that he "keep it up." The resident then urges "soldiers in Kicukiro" to also "keep it up," and specifically names their precise locations. Kantano and interviewee suggest that soldiers are working with residents in Magerwa, and perhaps other places, where Inyenzi were killed. The residents suggests that contrary to reports, the FAR still controls Kimicanga, Kacyiru, Magerwa, Kicukiro.
Another resident then speaks on behalf of RTLM. Kantano urges this resident and others to "test" people's knowledge of the station and its broadcasters. Residents standing close by respond by pronouncing the names of their favorite announcers.
Another resident in the crowd, a member of the CDR and of the Kimicanga security committee, says he is a peasant, part of the "mass who is at the barriers" and which often listens to RTLM. He says his militia is "keeping it up" at Kimicanga, Kajevuba, and Rwintare. He says roadblocks should be more lax for the "sons of Sebahinzi," (i.e. Hutu peasants), but that those who do not have papers showing that they are "sons of Sebahinzi" should "leave their head there" at the roadblock.
A soldier then takes the microphone and warns that Inkotanyi chased out of Kanombe "will be beaten for a long time" if they come there to Kimicanga. Kantano once again says "keep it up."
After a Bikindi song, Ananie transmits a few missives to and from soldiers.
Gahigi then begins a circuitous monologue about how the government should deal with the refugees in Mille Collines Hotel and Amahoro Stadium and ensure their security.
After another musical interlude, an unidentified speaker (1) criticizes false RFI reports about Kigali's fall, (2) speaks of plans to "evacuate people . . . in Mille Collines Hotel and Amahoro Stadium, (3) discusses common international misunderstanding about what the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) is doing and "who is [really] massacring who," (4) alleges governments supporting the arms embargo bear responsibility for RPF massacre of civilian population, (5) accuses Beligian mercenaries of collaboration with RPF in massacre of Hutus, (6) denies that militias of presidential guards were involved in massacres, saying that at time of massacres, there was no government, (7) alleges that assassination of Habyarimana and other top Rwandan officials marked beginning of RPF's massacring plans.
Broadcast ends with criticism of U.S. participation in arming of UN troops in Rwanda.
Very strong evidence of RTLM collaboration with militias.
Date discrepancy: tape label reads 29 May, but one speaker in program says "yesterday on the 26th of May 94"
Side B is blank
Tape features Kantano interview with residents and soldier at the Kimikanga roadblock. Announcers also discuss situation at Mille Colline Hotel and allege Tutsi atrocities.
Air Date: 1994 May 29
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Les deux face de la cassette sont animées par Kantano. Il félicite la FAR pour son détournement d'un massacre qui, il dit, allait être perpétué par les Inkotanyi contre la population de Kicukiro. Pendant le reste de l'émission, trois thèmes sont abordés à plusieurs reprises: (1) le plan des Inkotanyi de massacrer tout les Hutus, (2) le fait que le Rwandais doivent avoir du courage pour "travailler" contre ceux qui viennent les tuer et prendre leurs biens, (3) une critique de Radio Muhabura et une accusation qu'elle aide à verser le sang des Hutus, (4) la population et l'armée sont encouragées de fumer du chanvre "pour affronter efficacement ces voyous qui ont envahis nos champs en vue de voler nos récoltes." Kantano conclue la face B avec la caution que, "ils (les Inkotanyis) ont tout intérêt à arrêter les combats car si ils continuent à se suicider, ils seront tous éliminés."
Air Date: 1994 May 30
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Le début de la cassette est coupé.
La face A de cette cassette contient un long monologue de Kantano. Il commence avec un rapport qui accuse le Inkotanyi d'avoir essayé de s'infiltrer à Nyamirambo, Muhima et Gisozi. Kantano rassure ensuite ses auditeurs que le grondement d'armes lourdes sont ou la manifestation du FAR qui pourchassent les "Inyenzi" ou une stratégie des Inkotanyi pour faire peur aux peuple Rwandais. Kantano continue son monologue avec des exhortations dirigées aux écouteurs de la RTLM. Il les indique que des fusils seront distribués à la population et que si ils se mettent ensemble ils pourront exterminer les "Inyenzi." Kantano accuse aussi les Inkotanyi d'empêcher que des négociations prennent place.
La face B commence avec Kantano d'humeur plutôt hilare. Il incite la population à s'armer et à défendre le pays mais de ne plus s'enfuir. Il dit aussi que les Inkotanyi sont maintenant des "fantômes." Ananie annonce ensuite que les militaires Rwandais ont encerclé les Inkotanyi à Kacyiru de telle façon qu'ils ne pourront pas s'échapper. Kantano reprend lemicro et annonce l'extermination éventuelle des "Inyenzi." De son côté Gahigi déclare que la population doit s'armer avec des armes traditionnelles. Il fait une comparaison entre les "Inyenzi" et les buffles et les lions. Kantano termine la cassette en disant que "si ils veulent que nous les éliminions . . . nous les exterminerons."
Air Date: 1994 May 31
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
La thème centrale de l'emmision est que les "Inyenzi-Inkotanyi" ne sont pas massacrés, mais se suicident.
Le FPR est accusé à plusieurs reprise d'avoir planifié des massacres, et même d'avoir preparé des "listes." Des differents journalistes souligne l'importance de la RTLM dans la guerre; Ananie dit même que la radio est aussi importante que les mortiers. Ananie souligne que toute le monde ont une rôle à jouer dans la guerre contre les Inyenzi.
Philippe Mbilizi anime le début de la face A. Il félicite les FAR et la population pour son "travaille" contre "les tentatives d'infiltrations" des Inkotanyi, dont 100 étaient tué hier, "rien qu'à Kigali." Puis, Kantano parle de l'orgueil des "Inyenzi-inkotanyi" et explique que cette qualité les poussent à leurs propre extermination. De surcroît, Kantano affirme que tout "les Tutsi du monde entier allaient combattre les Hutus" et que tout les Hutus doivent donc se lever pour les combattre ensemble. Gahigi prends le microphone. Il charge que le FPR a planifié les massacres à Rwanda en incitant la population avec l'assassinat du président et du premier ministre. Il nie que la RTLM a appelait aux Hutus de tuer les Tutsis et suggère que les Tutsis sont responsables pour ses propres actes "suicidaire". Kantano conclue la face A de la cassette en constatant que ceux qui vengent l'assassinat du président "sont innocents parce qu'ils n'ont fait que s'adapter à la situation de ce temps-là."
La face B de la cassette commence avec un dialogue entre George Ruggiu et un journaliste non identifié: ils (1) rapportent que la communauté internationale appelle à la FPR de arrêter ses massacres, (2) accusent les FPR d'avoir interrompu l'évacuation des réfugiées du Stade Amahoro et d'autre cite et (3) affirment que le FPR est responsable des massacre à Kibungo et Byumba. Ils souligne aussi le "rôle médiatique" de la RTLM dans la guerre. Puis Ananie Nkurunziza commence un longue monologue dans lequel il parle des "astuces" des Inkotanyi, leurs manière de mimer les sons des bêtes sauvage, et la façon de lutter contre eux aux barrières. Il rapporte aussi sur les événements à Kinamba et Nyamirambo, où les Inkotanyi étaient "corrigé." Au cours de son rapport, il souligne que "il faut considérer les Inyenzi comme les Inyenzi. Il ne faut pas les craindre…" Ananie affirme que "tout le monde doit combattre [les 'Inyenzi] à sa façon, et loue le travail des malices qui sont aux barrières (il précise quelque noms). Gaspard Gahigi continue l'émission: il accuse le FPR encore une fois d'avoir planifié les massacres, et prétends avoir entre les mains une liste préparé par les Inyenzi des "véritable Inyenzi" marqué pour la mort. Ananie conclue la cassette en affirmant que dans cette guerre, la RTLM est "une arme" aussi redoutable que les mortiers.
Air Date: 1994 May 31
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Gahigi commence cette cassette avec une série d'accusations d'atrocités commises par le FPR. Selon Gahigi un représentant du HCR a témoigné que le FPR a tiré dans une foule de réfugiés. Gahigi maintient que le FPR s'attaque aux civiles plutôt qu'aux militaires. Kantano passe au micro et y reste jusqu'à la fin de la face A. Kantano rapporte qu'il a rêvé de l'extermination des Inkotanyi. Il donne plusieurs raisons pour l'annihilation éventuelle des Inkotanyi et finit par dire que les Inotanyi seront exterminés parce qu'ils sont suicidaires. Kantano exige des ses auditeurs qu'ils ne prennent pas fuites car les Inkotanyi sont moins nombreux. Kantano termine la cassette avec une description de la vie actuelle à Kigali. Kantano commence la face B de cette cassette en s'adressant aux personnes qui s'enfuient des Inkotanyi. Il déclare que tous Rwandais doit rester se battre contre les Inkotanyi et il proclame que la chasse aux Inkotanyi devientun jeu. Kantano souhaite aussi que les gens se comportent de façon plus raisonnable sans prendre des "libertés physiques" avec les femmes sous prétexte que le pays se trouve en temps de guerre. Ananie lit plusieurs annonces et adresse surtout la conférence de presse de Museveni où il admet enfin que certain de ces "boys" participent à la guerre du côté des Ikotanyi. Gahigi termine la face B avec une "analyse" des commentaires de Museveni. Gahigi explique que les membres du FPR ont reçu leurs entraînement militaire dans l'armée de Museveni et que ce dernier espère créer un "Hima Land" qui comprendrait l'Ouganda, le Rwanda, le Burundi et le Nord Kivu.
Air Date: 1994 June 01
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Cette cassette commence avec une discussion entre Gahigi et Ananie. Les deux animateurs maintiennent que Museveni joue un rôle important pour les Inkotanyi dans cette guerre. Ils suggèrent que Museveni veut créer un "Hima Land" pour la "race" Hima-Tutsi et qu'il veut exterminer la race Bantou. Kantano, de son côté, pense que Museveni va faire exterminer les Tutsis si il continue à les mener de sa façon. Cette cassette contient aussi deux entretients par Gahigi avec des hommes aux barrières: Bukenengaho de la barrière de Nyabugogo accuse les "Inyenzis" d'avoir massacré sa famille et Nyamaswa de la barrière de Yamaha annonce qu'avec ses compatriotes ils combattent tous les "Inyenzi," même les femmes, les enfants et les vieillards. Ananie termine la cassette avec une discussion du rôle de l'Ouganda dans cette guerre.
Ruggiu commence cette cassette avec un rapport du HCR qui accuse le FPR d'avoir commis des atrocités contre la population civile du Rwanda. Il explique ensuite que le FPR est protégé par Museveni en Ouganda etpar la Belgique. Kantano passe au micro ensuite et s'adresse surtout aux "fuyards" parmi la population et les forces armées. Il incite la population Rwandaise à rester se battre avec des paroles encourageantes et des menaces. Kantano annonce plusieurs fois que les "Inyenzi" seront exterminés. Ruggiu annonce la prise d'une mitrailleuse qui sera utilisée pour massacrer les Inkotanyi. Gahigi termine la cassette avec un commentaire sur la mauvaise foi des Inkotanyi en ce qui concerne les négociations.
Air Date: 1994 June 02
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Cette cassette est composée surtout d'un monologue par Bemeriki. Elle commence avec un message provenant du feu Président Habyarimana à la population leur demandant de prier. Elle invoque aussi le souvenir de l'apparition da la Sainte Vierge à Kibeho. Bemeriki cible un prêtre et une ensiegnante. Elle s'adresse aussi à tous les rumeurs propagées par les Inkotanyi et leurs complices avec but de faire fuir la population. Bemeriki maintient qu'au contraire les "Inyenzi-Inkotanyi" perdent la guerre et ne font qu'envoyer des bombes qui ont un effet négligable. Ensuite elle loue les efforts des personnes aux barrières et annonce que Karemera promet une distribution d'armes dans les jours qui suivent. Bemeriki termine son monologue en déclarant que les "Inyenzi" ont tué "d'innombrables personnes" et qu'ils sont connus pour leur "barabrie." Kantano prend la suite et déclare que les Inyenzi ont été envoyé par Museveni pour détruire le pays. Mais il ajoute que les "Inyenzi" vont se faire exteminés et qu'ils sont déjà minables au point qu'ils doivent voler leur nourriture qu'ils ne peuvent trouver qu'au tombé du soleil. Kantano insiste aussi sur le fait que la population ne doit pas fuir devant l'avance des Inkotanyi. Il conseille aux "Inyenzi" d'accepter les négociations et termine son monologue avec une menace implicite: "vous avez vu les conséquences qu'ont subies ceux qui ont choisi le mauvais côté."
Air Date: 1994 June 3
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 June 03
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
La première partie de cette cassette consiste d'une rétrospective des évènements au Rwanda depuis le 19 Mai, animée par Ananie. C'est une occasion pour Ananie de faire de nombreuses accusations de massacres commis par les "Inyenzi." Ananie démontre aussi que malgré les prévisions de Kagame, Kigali n'est toujours pas tombé dans les mains des "Inyenzis." Ananie commence une attaque contre Museveni qui sera continué par Kantano et Gahigi. Selon les trois animateurs de la RTLM, Museveni s'engage du côté des Inkotanyi et Gahigi déclare que c'est avec l'espoir de créer un "Hima Land" qui comprendrait l'Ouganda, le Rwanda, le Burundi et le Nord Kivu. Kantano note que "nous les exterminerons" si "ils" choisissent de "continuer comme ça."
Air Date: 1994 June 4
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 June 05
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Une partie de la face A est vierge et toute la face B est inaudible
Ananie et Kantano ont un dialogue très bref autour des rumeurs propagées par la Rdio Muhabura. Celle-ci a annoncé que le FPR a pris le Ruhengeri, mais Ananie maintient que la jeunesse de Giciye, Kinigi et Mukingo résiste encore aux Inkotanyi. Il ajoute que des barrières ont été érigées et que la population n'a pas peur des bombes lancés par les Inkotanyi. De sa part, Kantano gronde les soi-disant intellectuels qui refusent de participer aux combats et qui prennent fuite. Ananie termine la cassette en déclarant que les Inkotanyi sont en train de perdre la guerre.
Air Date: 1994 June 05
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Cette cassette consiste surtout en un discours du Premier Ministre Jean Kambanda. Kambanda fait le lien entre les "Inyenzi" de 1959 et les "Inkotanyi" de 1990. Il encourage le FAR et la population civile de continuer leur collaboration contre l'ennemi tout en évitant le piège des Inkotanyi qui tentent de créer des divisions dans l'armée Rwandaise. Kambanda continue a rappelé ses auditeurs que les Tutsi ne composent que 10% de la population Rwandaise et qu'ils veulent simplement restaurer la monarchie qu'ils avaient étable avec l'aide des Belges avant 1959. Il suggère que les Inkotanyi ont recruté leurs complices "au sein de des partis politiques" et qu'ilsont déjà fait preuve de mauvaises foi quand ils ont "liquidé" les têtes des partis qui s'opposent au FPR. De plus Kambanda accuse les Inkotanyi d'avoir assassiné le Président Habyarimana et de s'être lancé dans cette guerre avec l'aide de l'Uganda dont le Président Museveni veut "conquérir cette partie de l'Afrique que nous habitons." Kambanda termine son discours avec un appel à la population de se lever contre l'ennemi et de participer à cette guerre qu'il qualifie de "guerre finale."
Bemeriki prend la relève et essaie de faire comprendre aux Inkotanyi qu'ils n'ont aucun espoir de gagner cette guerre. Elle continue son monologue en visant des Inyenzi qui se trouve dans le Mont Kigali, en particulier un homme qui aurait semer la propagande lors des élections des conseillers. Elle vise ensuite le conseiller de Nyakabanda qu'elle accuse de complicité. Bemeriki demande que la population "s'habitue à informer immédiatement le conseiller de tout événement qui se produit dans le secteur."
Air Date: 1994 June 9
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 June 9
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 June 09
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Bemeriki commence la cassette avec un appel aux FAR et la "jeunesse Rwandaise" de faire "une chasse aux Inyenzi qui restent . . . que tous soient exterminés." Elle accuse en même temps les "Inyenzi" d'avoir commis des atrocités envers la population Rwandaise et d'avoir tué des religieux catholiques et protestants. Bemeriki continue son monologue en appelant le Général Dallaire de la Minuar un "Inkotanyi déguisé." Ensuite, un journaliste non-identifié lit deux communiqués de l'URVAN. Le premier incite la population à se mobiliser et protéger la Nature Rwandaise détruite par la guerre avec les Inkotanyi. Le deuxième communiqué accuse le FPR d'avoir commis des massacres et de ne pas vouloir partager le pouvoir. Kantano passe au micro et suggère que les "Inyenzi" ont été envoyé par Museveni. Il suggère aussi que les "Inyenzi" ont été "découvert" par la communauté internationale. Le reste du monologue de Kantano consiste surtout à inciter la population à se soulever contre les Inkotanyi: il accuse les hommes de Kagame d'avoir massacré la population civile, de travailler avec Satan et d'avoir tué des personnages religieux. Mais tout en les accusant des pires atrocités, Kantano compare les "Inyenzi" à des vaches qui vont vers l'abattoir. Il s'attaque aussi aux membres Hutu du FPR. Gahigi prends brièvement le micro pour remercier les gens aux barrières et pour encourager les auditeurs de chercher "la victoire définitive." Bemeriki termine la cassette avec un appel à la population de "anéantir l'ennemi."
Air Date: 1994 June 18
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 June 18
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 June 18
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
L'identité du journaliste du "Record" 19 n'est pas certaine.
Cette cassette commence avec un interview entre le Général Major Augustin Bizimungu et plusieurs journalistes de la RTLM et de Radio Rwanda. Bizimungu se contente de convaincre ses auditeurs que les "Inyenzi" n'épagnerons personnes et qu'il est donc préférable de participer complètement à la guerre. Il avertit ensuite les "Inyenzi" et les laisse savoir qu'ils périront tous si ils ne consentent pas aux négociations. Parmi ses incitements, Bizimungu encourage toute la population de s'armer, ne soit qu'avec un bâton si il le faut, pour se battre avec l'ennemi. Il accuse aussi Museveni de s'être aligné du côté des Inkotanyi. Ruggiu passe au micro ensuite pour donner les informations du jour. Ruggiu accuse les Inkotanyi d'avoir tué un soldat de la MINUAR. Il répond aussi aux reportages de la RFI et du journal "Le Soir" qui concernent les milliers de cadavres qui polluent le lac Victoria. Ruggiu annonce que les cadavres sont des victimes du FPR car ils ont les mains liées derrière le dos. Il lit un communiqué de la PDI qui dénonce les actions de Museveni et qui demande que le Général Dallaire soit renvoyé au Canada. Ruggiu termine son monologue en insistant que la population ne doit jamias oublier les atrocités des "Inyenzi." Gahigi termine la cassette en saluant les personnes aux barrières et en expliquant que le FPR est contre l'intervention Française, que le FPR fera de son mieux pour faire croire que les Rwandais sont coupables des massacres perpétués dans le pays.
Air Date: 1994 June 19
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
L'identité du journaliste des "records" 15-17 est peut-être Kantano au lieu de Ananie.
Gahigi commence cette cassette en rappelant ses auditeurs qu'il faut rester vigilant. Il annonce ensuite l'intention des Inkotanyi d'exterminer la population et il ajoute qu'il est donc nécessaire d'exterminer les Inkotanyi. Il accuse le FPR d'avoir assassiné le Président Habyarimana et d'avoir commencé la guerre. Il justifie la réaction du Rwanda en expliquant que qund quelqu'un est attaqué "il doit se défendre." Kantano passe au micro et annonce l'arrivée des troupes Française. Il demande à ses auditeurs de se préparer à accueillir les Français et il annonce que les "Inyenzi se suicident" mais que les Tutsi n'ont en aucun cas été exterminés. Il annonce aussi que les "Inyenzi-Inkotanyi" ont l'intention d'exterminer les Hutu. Kantano accuse les Belges et Museveni de s'être alignés du côté des Inkotanyi mais il ajoute que sinon les Inkotanyi n'ont plus le soutien de la communauté internationale.
Ananie commence la face B avec des informations à propos des "combats" dans Kigali. Il est suivit de Bemeriki qui annonce la mort de nombreux "Inyenzi." Elle les appelle des "suicidaires" et ajoute que les routes sont couverts de cadavres d'Inkotanyi. Tout en insistant que les "Inyenzi" se font exterminés, Bemeriki annonce que les "Inyenzi" trouvent quand même le moyen de massacrer la population Rwandaise.
Air Date: 1994 June 18
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 June 20
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Ruggiu suggère que le FPR et ses accomplisses ont refusé "le partage du pouvoir. Il indique ensuite que le Général Dallaire, les Belges et les Ugandais sont des accomplisses des "Inyenzi". Ruggiu caractérise les "Inyenzi" et Kagame de "bourreau" et "massacreur". Il encourage aussi ceux qui mènent les combats dans les quartiers de Bilyogo et Nyamirambo. Bemeriki parle brièvement des combats à Kabakene, Rugenge et Gisenyi. Gahigi et Ananie s'adresse à la situation dans la cellule de Duha dans la commune de Gikoro où, selon Gahigi, les Inkotanyi auraient tué 120 personnes. Cette cassette contient aussi un interview de Gahigi avec Jean Sibomana. Ce dernier explique que les Tutsi sont astucieux et ont bien étudié la situation à Arusha pour qu'ils puissent monopoliser le pouvoir. Gahigi et Sibomana sont d'accord que le gouvernement précédant n'avait pas maintenu assez de contact avec la population.
Air Date: 1994 June 20
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 June 20
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Side B of this tape is blank
Bemeriki begins the tape accusing the Inkotanyi of "drinking Rwandan blood" and killing residents. She calls on the population to exterminate the Inyenzi-Inkotanyi. She is followed by Kantano who mockingly sings a song about the Inkotanyi having all perished. Kantano gives some of the local news from Kigali and targets several sectors and communes as areas where conflicts have taken place. As he targets areas like Nyamirambo he comments that the "Inyenzi" are committing suicide. He also refers to the current war as the "final" one. Kantano then announces that the imminent arrival of French troops to intervene against the "suicidal Ugandans and suicidal extremists Tutsis." He criticizes Kagame's tactics and tells the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) leader that he has done nothing but sow seeds of hatred for the Inkotanyi. Ruggiu ends the broadcasts with the beginning of an interview with George France Hategekimana about the impending French intervention.
Air Date: 1994 June 21
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
L'identité de l'animateur les "records" 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 et 14 est à vérifier. Je pense qu'il s'agit de Ananie.
La face A commence avec un interview entre Kantano et un gendarme non-identifié de Kacyiru. Le gendarme lance un appel à la jeunesse de participer aux actions militaires. Kantano annonce qu'il y aura des récompenses pour les gens courageux. Bemeriki prend le micro et souhaite à la jeunesse "de garder votre courage et bravoure habituels." Elle avertit la population de se méfier des nouvelles astuces des "Inyenzi" et de garder contre l'infiltration des "Inyenzi." Ananie suit Bemeriki et s'attaque d'abord à Twagiramungu qu'il dit être devenu un "Inyenzi." Il annonce que les Belges et les "Inyenzi" se sont alliés contre le Rwanda et les Français. Il dit aussi que les "Inyenzi" sont les "diables" dont parle le New York Times. Ananie insinue ensuite que les "Inyenzi" ont tué 850 réfugiés de l'église St Paul. Ananie est suivi d'un entretien entre Gahigi et le Premier Ministre Kambanda. Kambanda annonce que le gouvernement essaie de trouver des armes pour la population et il accuse le FPR de n'avoir pas respecté les Accdords d'Arusha. Bemeriki suit avec un interview de Pauline Nyiramasuhoko du Ministère de la Famille et de la Protection Féminine. Nyiramasuhoko affirme que les Rwandaises participent aux combats contre les "Inyenzi" et elle demande aux femmes du Rwanda de collaborer avec tous les Rwandais pour faire face à l'ennemi. Ruggiu termine la cassette avec des nouvelles de l'interventio Française. Il accuse aussi le FPR d'avoir tué le Président Habyarimana et de ne pas vouloir arrêter les massacres et prendre une place à la table des négociations. Ruggiu s'adresse aussi aux reportages de la RFI qu'il qualifie de faux. Il prétend qu'il n'existe pas de milices au Rwanda, qu'il s'agit seulement d'une défense civile.
Air Date: 1994 June 23
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Jul. 01
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Kantano commence la cassette. Il dit que l'Uganda s'enrichi grace à cette guerre en vendant du matériels aux Inkotanyi. Kantano s'adresse aussi au rapport de René Denis Ségui qu'il qualifie de honteux. Kantano dit que les "Inyenzi" sont des "trafiquants de la mort" et il encourage la population de prendre courage et de faire face aux Inkotanyi. Ananie prend sa place et dénonce les reportages de RFI qu'il accuse de soutenir l'ennemi. Ensuite Ananie se lance dans une longue riposte contre le rapport de René Denis Ségui. Ananie l'accuse de n'avoir pas fait des recherches à fond et il l'accuse aussi de soutenir les Inkotanyi. Par contre Ananie fait usage du rapport pour démontrer à ses auditeurs ce qui arriverait si les Inkotanyi perdent la guerre. Gahigi aussi s'adresse aux résultats de ce rapport et annonce que ce sont les "Inyenzi" qui ont commencé la guerre, une guerre qu'ils ont préparé pendant 27 ans et qu'ils ont appelé une guerre "finale." Gahigi tente ensuite de lier les "Inyenzi" aux "Iinyenzi" de 1959. Il explique que les "Inyenzi" ont formé une organisation qui s'est répandu un peu partout au monde pour préparer cette guerre éventuelle. Kantano prend la suite et s'attaque aux "étrangers" qui ne font que propager "de fausses informations." Bemeriki termine la cassette en remarquant que les "Inyenzi" espèrent restaurer la monarchie. Elle aussi s'attaque au rapport de Monsieur Ségui qui elle accuse d'avoir accepté de l'argent des Inkotanyi.
Air Date: 1994 Jul. 02
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
une partie de la face A et de la face B sont vierges
Kantano commence la face A. Il salue les efforts de la radio "soeur," Radio Rwanda. Il se moque ensuite des Inkotanyi qui ont des barbes et chevelure hirsute et plein de poux. Il dit que les Iinkotanyi "sont foncièrement méchant." Kantano s'adresse ensuite aux "dépouilles" de Hutu qu'il offre comme preuve du but exterminatrice des Inkotanyi qu'il accuse d'avoir traumatisé des enfants et bébés. Il exhorte la population de se lever pour combattre les "Inyenzi" et il ajoute que le Rwanda exterminera les "Inyenzi" qui sont d'ailleurs "suicidaires." Kantano passe ensuite à une attaque contre Museveni qu'il accuse de vouloir régner sur toute l'Afrique centrale. Il termine son monologue avec une référence aux Tutsi de Burundi qui sont en train de créer des problèmes pour ce pays. Ananie prend la relève et donne les informations. Il note l'arrivé des Français et il fait mention de la création d'un Tribunal international pour le Rwanda. Il ajoute que la RTLM est parmi les accusés. Gahigi prend la suite et défend les actions de la RTLM. Il essaie de démontrer que la RTLM n'est pas à l'origine des problèmes entre les "Inyenzi" et le Rwanda. Il dénonce ensuite Dallaire et René Denis Ségui qu'il accuse d'avoir fabriqué de faux rapports pour convaincre la communauté internationale de la méchanceté de la RTLM. Kantano termine la cassette avec plusieurs déclarations que les "Inyenzi" et même les Tutsi sont décimés.
Air Date: 1994 Jul. 03
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Kantano et Ananie sont les animateurs de cette cassette. Les thèmes de cette cassette sont, parmi autres: (1) Museveni en tant que chef des "Inyenzi" et son objectif de créer des petits pays Tutsi, (2) l'intervention Française et la création d'une zone de sécurité pour empêcher les Inkotanyi de continuer leurs massacres, (3) preuves de "régions dépouillées par les Inkotanyi" et l'idée que des "adventuriers Tutsi cherchent tout ce qui est Hutu," (4) des attaques contre René Denis Ségui et les radios étrangères qui font de faux reportages contre les Hutu et indiquant la prise de la ville de Kigali, (5) des atrocités commis par les Inkotanyi qui tuent même les bébés, (6) la promesse que les Inkotanyi seront exterminés et même une référence aux "Tutsi décimés."
Air Date: 1994 Jul. 03
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
This tape contains some evidence of general incitement. Towards the end of side B, the last sentence of the second to last paragraph, a reference to 10 Germans who have disappeared should probably be double-checked.
This tape contains a long discussion by Bemeriki about the creation of a new parliament in Gisenyi and the role of the PSR (Rwandan Socialist Party). Ruggiu focuses on foreign journalists' misrepresentation of the situation in Rwanda. He also reports on the "military situation" in some detail.
Air Date: 1994 Jul. 3
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Jan. 1
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Jan. 05-06
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Much of side B is inaudible -- The tape is fairly light and humorous in tone. Kantano pokes fun at most of the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) leadership with stereotypical comments about Tutsis.
The tape contains Kantano's account of his visit with the RPF at the CND. He lists a series of RPF dignitaries alternately poking fun at them and accusing them of wanting to obtain power. It also contains an interview with Deputy Rutaremara of the RPF. Kantano casts the interview as an example of the Inkotanyi way of thinking.
Air Date: 1994 Jan. 6
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Radio Rwanda
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Unidentified Kinyarwanda news caster begins with news headlines: (1) Prime Minister Kambanda's meets with religious, political, and party leaders in Gitarama, (2) UN Special Representative Booh-Booh's pledges "never to forsake Rwanda," (3) 400 Belgian troops are leaving Rwanda.
Reporter Rwakana Gaspard continues with report on Kambanda meeting which allegedly discussed ways of ensuring the security of displaced people. These measures include appointing and replacing prefects and appointing a new Army chief of staff. These measures are allegedly hindered by the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF)'s unwillingness to stop fighting.
Rwakana then reports on the RPF's "unlucky streak" and the FAR's control over all the communes in Ruhengeri save Butaro. Rwanaka repeats that despite the government's best efforts, security of refugees can only be ensured if the RPF stops fighting. Bourgmesters present at the meetings also blamed the shortcomings in security on logistical problems and a shortage of policeman, vehicles, and fuel.
Unidentified newscaster continues with (1) report on the FAR's control of Nkumba and Kidaho communes in Ruhengeri, (2) UN support for cease-fire, (3) announcement of Western Europe Foreign Affairs Ministers' decision to send food aid and the departure of 400 Belgian troops.
Unidentified French newscaster repeats the headlines and the report on Kamabanda meeting.
Reporter Hyacinthe Bicamumpaka repeats earlier reports on Kambanda meeting adding (1) that it was intended to "persuade the population to cease their vindictive acts and the settling of scores" and (2) to dismiss prefects who were unsuccessful at controlling violence. Bicamumpaka then repeats the remainder of the headlines, this time further specifying FAR strongholds on Byumba, Mutara, and Kigali.
An unidentified Kinyarwanda reporter continues with report that officials have set up several meetings to "clear up misunderstanding among the population" and to help re-integrate people who have fled. This message was reportedly delivered by Sindikubwabo in Gikongoro, in Maraba commune, Butare, and in Nyakizy, Butare. The Gikongoro Prefet gave the President three reasons for the breakdown in security: (1) anger over Habyarimana assassination, (2) a belief that given the opportunity, the RPF would "not spare them at all," (3) simple banditry. The President reportedly answered that revenge does not justify violence.
A taped version of Sindikubwabo's speech follows. In the speech the President (1) urges Rwandan's to watch over each other like gendarmes and not repeat the story of Cain and Abel, (2) argues that gendarmes, population, and army have complementary roles,(3) insists that "security" is primarily the citizens' responsibility, (4) says that citizens who think themselves above the government's orders should be identified and punished.
Sindikubwabo continues alleging the enemies strongest weapon is his ability to sow ethnic division. This division causes Rwandans to seek magic cures for their problems rather than finding and questioning those who support the enemies' allegations. "That's how the enemy fulfills this plan without using . . . bullets . . . those who do not understand are requested to listen before its too late."
Reporter breaks in adding that the President asks refugees to return to their property wherever possible.
Sindikubwabo tape continues with President urging for the closing of camps and for people to master their anger despite the dying of people and the destruction of houses.
Musabirema take the microphone again and says that the President aired his concern about the refugees in Cyahinda Parish who have guns and grenades and killed and wounded 7 people, including the burgomaster. The President also reportedly requested the suppression of unauthorized patrols and roadblocks.
Side A ends with Musabirema summarizing the main points of Sindikubwabo's speech in French.
Likely date: April 5, 1994; likely transmission identity: Radio Rwanda (see Annex 5 Les Medias de Genocide)
Side B is blank
Tape features report on Kambanda's meeting with leaders in Gitarama and excerpts from Sinkibubwabo's speech in Gikongoro. The broadcast's overt message is that the government is trying to protect refugees, but the calls for everyone to participate in ensuring their fellow citizen's "security" are ambivalent.
Air Date: 1994 Jul. 01
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Cette cassette contient le discours de Léon Mugesera qui existe déjà: voir Archive Box #053
Ruggiu est le seul animateur de cette cassette. Il donne les informations politiques de la journée. Il rapporte aussi l'infiltration des "Inyenzi" dans Kigali et ses alentours. Il vise en particulier les "Inyenzi" de Kacyiru et de Nyamirambo. Ruggiu passe ensuite à un interview avec Gérard Karanganwa, le burgomaster de Kicukiro. Karanganwa rapporte que les Inkotanyi ont commis des atrocités dans sa commune et celle de Gikondo au point qu'il n'y a plus d'habitants à Kicukiro. Ruggiu lui souhaite "bon travail" et termine la cassette en notant qu'il est inconcevable que les Inkotanyi gouvernent le pays même si ils gagnent la guerre.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
La grande partie de la face A contient des chansons de Anonciata Kamariza qui n'ont pas été traduite
Il n'y a pas de date pour cette cassette
Un journaliste non-identifié commence la face A en visant trois soi-disant Inkotanyi: Sentama Abdallah, Iyakaremye et Nyilimpunga. Il accuse aussi la Rdio Muhabura d'avoir diffusé des rumeurs fausses. La face B consiste entièrement d'un interview entre Gahigi et Ferdinand Nahimana. Les thèmes de cette interview sont: (1) l'évolution du FPR qui trouve ses origines chez les "Inyenzi" de 1959, (2) le caractère "Ugandais" du "FPR-Inyenzi," (3) le phénomène Kanyarengwe, un Hutu qui a combattu les "Inyenzi," et son "différend" avec le Président Habyarimana, ainsi que son "élimination" imminente du FPR et la crétion de deaux factions FPR, l'une Hutu, l'autre Tutsi, (4) le FPR en tant que organisation qui pratique l'extermination de ses opposants depuis le temps de Rwabugiri et qui continue cette même pratique de nos jours dans la zone tampon (5) la notion que le FPR-Inyenzi refuse de partager le pouvoir et qu'il s'attaque à tout le Rwanda et pas seulement au MRND.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
This tape consists of an interview of Janvier Afrika one of the original leaders of the Interahamwe. Major Mutambuka leads Afrika through a detailed account of the Interahamwe's inception and its first three missions. Afrika reveals the names of men who were instrumental in first forming the Interahamwe, then providing it with the necessary support to carry out its missions and protect its members. Afrika also explains how he helped start the newspaper "Umurava" and the extent to which President Habyarimana was involved.
Air Date: 1992 Nov. 22
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
There is very strong evidence in this speech including specific calls to "eliminate" and "kill" Tutsis and members of opposition political parties.
This is a tape of Leon Mugesera's speech at a political rally in November of 1992. The theme of the tape is the "invasion" of Rwanda. Twagiramungu and Uwilingiyimana are specifically targeted as leaders of this "invasion." The general purpose of the speech is to warn the audience of this threat and suggest that appropriate action be taken, including separating or sending away any participants or supporters of the "invasion."
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 2
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
*Special Note: Date of cassette may be incorrect. According to additional transcript sources located at The Montreal Institute for Genocide and Human Rights Studies (MIGS), the broadcast references the death of the President Juvénal Habyarimana. Original broadcast date must therefore be post April 6th, 1994, the date of Habyarimana's death.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 5
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 5
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 07
Producer: Radio Rwanda
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
There is little evidence of incitement to genocide but numerous references to "maintainig security" and establishing cooperation between the population and the FAR. There are also several references to raids and setting curfews.
This tape is from the day after Habyarimana's assassination. It consists mostly of instructions to the population in the form of communiqués from the FAR and various prefects. It also includes a short speech by President Sindikubwabo. The broadcast has a tone of no nonsense efficiency as plans are outlined for establishing "security" throughout the country.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 09
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Un journaliste non-identifié, Bemeriki et Ruggiu commence cette cassette en expliquant que l'assassinat de Habyarimana a donné suite à des incidents de violence dans le pays. Ils expliquent que le nouveau Président, Monsieur Théodore Sindikubwabo, a été choisi selon l'article 42 de la Constitution Rwandaise car les Accords d'Arusha n'avaient pas encore été mis en place. L'émission passe ensuite aux cérémonies du nouveau gouvernement auxquelles les Ministres prêtent serment. Sindikubwabo continue la cérémonie avec un discours au cours duquel il annonce leplan d'installer un comité de crise pour veiller sur et régler les problèmes de sécurité. Bemeriki suit le Président Sindikubwabo. De son côté elle loue la vigilance des Forces Armées Rwandaises et de l'Interahamwe de sorte que les Inkotanyi ont très peu de complices parmi la population de Kigali. Bemeriki déclare aussi que le FPR a l'intention de semer le désordre et que les Inkotanyi ont déjà tué Kanyarengwe, un Hutu.
Air Date: 1994 Apr.10
Producer: Radio Rwanda
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Un ou deux journalistes non-identifiés, Jean-François Nsengiyumva et Jean Baptiste Bamwanga sont les animateurs de cette cassette. Elle contient aussi un discours du Premier Ministre Jean Kambanda, un interview avec le Colonel B.E.M. Gatsinzi et d'un interview entre Bamwanga et Karamira, Karemera et Ngirumpatse. Les thèmes de cette cassette tourne tous autour de l'assassinat du Président Habyarimana, le nouveau gouvernement, la sécurité, la violence dans les rues, l'installation de comités de sécurité et d'une auto-défense. A plusieurs reprises des membres du gouvernement demandent à la population de suivre les directives des comités de sécurité dans leurs quartiers pour ce qui concerne l'installation des barrière. Les trois politiciens offrent des explications pour la violence à Kigali. Ils expliquent que la mort de Habyarimana a rendu la population furieuse. Ils demandent à la population d'établir la sécurité etde cesser la violence mais isl demandent aussi de redoubler de vigilance.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 12
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 13
Producer: RTLM and Radio Rwanda
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Cette émission est animé par des journalistes de Radio Rwanda aussi bien que de la RTLM. La première partie de la cassette est animé par un journaliste non-identifié, Hyacinthe Bicamumpaka et Jean Baptiste Murutampunzi tous originaire de la Radio Rwanda. Cette première partie s'adresse surtout aux événements des derniers jours qui ont produit de nombreuses "victimes innocentes." Ces journalistes, à l'aide de communiqués officiels, demandent à la population de retrouver le calme tout en restant vigilant. Parmi d'autres, les Belges et la MINUAR sont dénoncés d'avoir aidé le FPR qui est dénoncé à son tour d'avoir repris les hostilités. Par contre, la communauté internationale est louée pour avoir condamné les actions du FPR. Jean Kamband a suit ces premiers journalistes avec un discours qui explique que "les moments difficiles" qui caractérisent le Rwanda sont le résultat de la peine et fureur de la population à cause d ela mort de leur Président Habyarimana. Lui aussi dénonce le FPR ainsi que Twagiramungu. Il ajoute que la population doit rester calme toute en doublant de vigilance. Bemeriki passe au micro ensuite et accuse les Belges d'avoir assassiné Habyarimana tout en accusant la MINUAR de négligence. Bemeriki est suivit d'un entretien entre Ruggiu et Thomas Kabonake, un journaliste avec "L'Echo des Mille Collines." Les deux hommes insistent que le FPR préparait cette guerre depuis six mois et qu'ils essaient maintenant de s'infiltrer parmi la population histoire de les confondre ainsi que les soldats du FAR. Kabonake ajoute que le FPR aurait payé certaines agences de presse étrangères pour qu'elles publient de fausses informations. Kantano prend la suite et lance une attaque contre Shyaka de la Radio Muhabura. Il ajoute que la RFI, la BBC et la RTDF sont tous coupables d'avoir diffusé de faux reportages. Il conclut son monologue avec des incitations à la population de rester courageux et vigilant. Un journaliste non-identifié suit avec des nouvelles des combats à Kigali. Nsengiyumva prend la relève et s'entretient avec Froduald Karamira de la MDR. Celui-ci se contente de dire qu'ils sont fiers du comportement de la population tout en dénoncant les actions des Inkotanyi. La cassette se termine avec Kantano qui déclare que les Rwandais sont en train de gagner la guerre déclenchée par les Inkotanyi. Il traîte les Inkotanyi de "maigrichons" et dit qu'ils étaient "animés" par l'orgueil au début de la guerre.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 14-15
Producer: Radio Rwanda
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Cette cassette commence avec un entretien entre Bamwanga et Niyitegeka, Ministre de l'Information. Niyitegeka maintient que les Inkotanyi sont pourchassés parout dans la ville de Kigali. Un journaliste non-identifié intervient pour annoncer les résultats d'une réunion concernant la sécurité de Kigali: la population doit se mettre à défendre sa propre sécurité, des patrouilles nocturnes seront de rigeur dorénavant . . . L'entretien de Niyitegeka continue. Celui-ci déclare que: (1) la Belgique est impliquée dans les attaques du FPR, (2) la population doit veiller contre l'infiltration des Inkotanyi, (3) le FPR n'a aucune raison de ne pas reconnaître le nouveau gouvernement Rwandais. Karamira suit l'interview avec un monologue qui rapporte sur les événements de Kigali. Il avertit le FPR que les rumeurs propagées par les Inkotanyi risque de faire massacrer tous les Tutsi. Kabendera passe au micro ensuite pour lire le journal national. Il annonce que: (1) des blancs se trouvent parmi les forces du FPR, (2) les Inkotanyi ont l'usage de l'équipement Ugandais, (3) les Inkotanyi ont commis de nombreuses atrocités à Kigali, mais ils se font quand même pourchassés par les forces Rwandaises. Venuste Bahiyize prend le micro et continue les même thèmes. Il ajoute que le FPR essaie d'introduire des complications pour éviter les négociations. La cassette se termine avec l'interview d'un soldat Inkotanyi par le Major Gérard Ntamagezo de la FAR. L'entretien révèle que les Inkotanyi sont coupables d'avoir tué des membres du CDR. Le soldat ajoute que de son avis le deux partis (le FPR et le gouvernement Rwandais) devraient cesser la guerre et prendre leurs places à la table de négociations.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 15
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 15
Producer: Radio Rwanda
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
La face B est vierge
Cette cassette est entièrement composée d'une discussion entre Bamwanga, Mugenzi, Ndungutse, Karemera et Hyacinthe Nsengiyumva. Parmi autres, ils s'adressent aux thèmes suivant: (1) la collaboration de l'ancien Premier Ministre Uwilingiyimana avec les Inkotanyi, (2) les "Inyenzi" sont la minorité et ne peuvent jamais espérer gouverner le pays, ils ne peuvent que tenter de détruire le Rwanda, (3) un avertissement que le FPR tentera "d'exterminer la masse," (4) les Accords d'Arusha ne sont plus valables, (5) les Inkotanyi refusent de reconnaître le gouvernement Rwandais parce qu'ils préfèrent exterminer la population, (6) la population doit collaborer avec le gouvernement et essayer de re-établir la sécurité, (7) il faut laisser la population achever le travail de la révolution de 1959.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 15
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 15
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
The first part of the broadcast consists of a Gahigi interview of Shyirambere Barahinyura who blames Tutsis for the rise of ethnic tensions. He goes on to explain that the Inkotanyi are not Rwandans and have enlisted the help of both the Ugandans and Belgians in their war effort. Barahinyura then launches into a tirade against the new government accusing them of maintaining a harmful silence in the face of the Inkotanyi's attacks which will result in the extermination of Rwandans. Gahigi follows the interview with a short monologue accusing the Inkotanyi of committing a number of atrocities.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 16
Producer: Radio Rwanda
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Side A of the tape begins mid-sentence. Journalist Hyacinthe Bicamumpaka (1) reports on the Defense Minister's praise of the population's "bravery" and patriotism in helping the army, (2) suggest that the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) is receiving logistical and material assistance, such as helicopters, from foreign countries, (3) claims that in the north and in Kigali the RPF is now "infiltrating to reach places that it could not conquer by arms . . ."
Bicamumpaka continues with a summary on the various options under discussion by the UN Security Council.
After a break in the tape, Bicamumpaka praises the "courage" of the Rwandan people following the "assassination of the Chief of our State by criminals." The Reporter then introduces his interviewee, Eliezer Niyitegeka, Minister of Information.
Niyitegeka explains (1) that cell leaders who "finish their duty" receive rewards from the government, (2) that cell leaders are in a position to "ensure security" by organizing the population to "conduct patrols" and "fight against and denounce the enemy to the authorities." Niyitegeka also (3) stresses that the government has always needed the cell leaders in this capacity.
Niyitegeka continues by saying (1) that the Rwandan army is fighting against the "enemy," (2) that the "enemy" violates the population's rights by shooting at innocent people and burning them alive in their houses, (3) that the population should continue fighting alongside the soldiers and in their place against the "small Inkotanyi," and (4) that the population should do this with whatever weapons it has—spears, bows, and arrows.
Following Bicamumpaka's mention of "Inkotanyi wickedness," Niyitegeka (1) suggests that 3,400 of the RPF's 4,000 soldiers in Kigali are either infiltrators or spies, (2) asserts that in Gikondo and Nyabarongo, Inkotanyi have killed innocent people, (3) and that Inkotanyi trained by RPF soldiers encircle civilian families at night and throw grenades at them.
In response to a question about Muhabura and Bujumbura Radio, Niyitegeka denies the "enemy's" claims regarding refugees and the fleeing of top government ministers.
The reporter then asks Niyitegeka to respond to RPF appeals to the population to fight against the "government of killers." Niyitegeka denies the charges and claims that in Kigali only RPF soldiers were killed, and that this was after they infiltrated the Presidential Guard compound. Niyitegeka admits that the Presidential Guard was responsible for violence in the immediate wake of the President's assassination but asserts that this violence did not come on orders from the army, but as a result of the Presidential Guard's justifiable "anger and fury" at the murder of their President.
Niyitegeka then explains the Inkotanyi's motives for violence: they are furious because they mistakenly believed that assassinating the President would allow them to "enthrone" their own leader.
Niyitegeka's final remarks regard the RPF's alleged unwillingness to sign a cease-fire or abide by the Arusha accords.
Following the interview, there is a report on the death of Major General Nsabimana Déogratias — he was on Habyarimana's plane — and the cabinet's choice for replacement, Colonel Bizimungu Augustin. The journalist explains that promotions in the army are based on soldiers' "competence, work, courage at work and at the front."
Tape stresses need for population to show its "courage" by collaborating with the army and local officials in "ensuring security " against the "enemy."
Side B is blank
In an interview with Hyancinthe Bicamumpaka, Elieser Niyitegeka (Minister of Information) lauds the population's bravery in fighting alongside the army and accuses "Inkotanyi" of atrocities which violate the population's rights.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 17
Producer: Radio Rwanda
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
This broadcast begins with a series of news bulletins. They are followed by Nsengiyumva's interview of Froduald Karamira of the MDR. Karamira addresses the people of Kigali and instructs them to assist the Army by carrying out their assigned duties and staying within their respective quarters. He goes on to say that the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) has infiltrated itself into the civilian population which accounts for the deaths of so many non-soldiers. Major General Bizimana's speech is then broadcasted. He makes a call to Rwandans to respect their local authorities. Nizeyimana then gives an update on the war which includes a direct call against Mutarekanwa, a barrister in the Rugenge sector.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 17
Producer: Radio Rwanda
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
This broadcast begins with a news bulletin. Nsengiyumva follows with an update of the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) and FAR movements. A speech by President Sindikubwabo is next. He calls on Rwandans to collaborate with the government and assist in denouncing "criminals" that continue to trouble the peace. An unidentified journalist then continues with the news which includes reports of the UNAMIR's role in setting up negotiations and the departure of the Belgian contingent. The tape ends with Kagina reporting that Simbizi of the CDR blames the Belgians for some of the country's trouble.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 17
Producer: Radio Rwanda
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Cette cassette commence avec un discours du Président Sindikubwabo. Il demande à la population de ne pas permettre à l'ennemi de semer la discorde parmi eux. Il demande aussi aux sevices adminstratives de suivre le problème de sécurité de très près. Niyitegeka annonce ensuite que le Préfet de Butare est désormais remplcé par Sylvain Nsabimana. L'Archevêque de Kigali prend la parole et déclare que les attaques du FPR sont la cause de la discorde entre les Hutu et Tutsi. Un journaliste non-identifié annonce ensuite l'installation des barrières et l'instauration despatrouilles nocturnes pour empêcher l'infiltration des "malfaiteurs." La cassette se termine avec une discussion entre Mukarutamu, Murego, du MDR; Mugenzi, du PL; Nsengiyumva, du PSD et Ngirumpatse, du PSD. Les thèmes de la discussion sont: (1) cette guerre est le travail d'un groupe de réfugiés de la révolution de 1959 qui n'ont pas changé de mentalité et veulent absolutement accéder au pouvoir, (2) ils veulent restaurer la monarchie de leurs ancêtres, (3) il est dangereux d'ignorer l'ethnie, il faut accepter qu'il existe un problème d'ethnie, (4) le FPR a compris que l'instauration des Accords d'Arusha ne leur permettrait pas de régner seul donc ils ont préféré la guerre.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 17
Producer: RTLM and Radio Rwanda
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Side A consists of a discussion hosted by Agensta Mukarutama featuring Murego, Ngirumpatse, Nsengiyumva, and Mugenzi.
Murego begins with a monologue arguing, (1) that people are beginning to recognize that the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF)'s goal is to return Rwanda to its pre-revolutionary time in which "some people commanded . . . and others obeyed," (2) that the RPF was deluded and "made a mistake" in thinking that it could dominate as before, (3) that Rwandans have learned their history and are "saying 'no'" to a repetition of history and are "resisting en masse" the RPF's attempt to "'live handsomely at the expense of his subordinates,'" (4) and that "Rwandans will never again…be a people of slaves."
Agenesta Mukarutama then continues along the same lines suggesting that the RPF has brought the current hardship upon itself, having fallen "victim to its [own] illusions," and that the "Tutsi" could have predicted that this "socio-political disaster" would follow from their attempt to bring back apartheid.
Murego then asserts that, unsatisfied with the right of return offered by the Arusha Accords, the RPF wanted "conquest and revenge," wanted "to massacre their fellows [and] enslave a people who has said 'no' to slavery."
Mukarutama then introduces Ngirumpatse, MRND President, who argues (1) that it would be a "mistake" to think the "Revolutions [of 1959] was finished once and for all," (2) that in this respect, the Arusha Accords were an exceptional attempt on the part of Rwandans to prevent a repetition of history.
Ngirumpatse continues by stressing the exceptional generosity of the Arusha Accords and suggesting that the RPF's stubbornly monarchist desire for domination prevents it from accepting these accords.
Ngirumpatse then asserts that the future of the Arusha Accords depends on the RPF and that as long as it continues to "provoke war" (1) Rwandans will defend themselves, (2) that the RPF's attacks are making Ngirumaptse fear the day when the "minority" sends the "majority of the population" "to the bush," (3) and that this fear explains the desire to see "the minority . . . deleted from the face of the country."
Nsengiyumva then echoes Ngirumpatse's appeal to the RPF to abide by the Arusha Accords.
In an exchange with Mukarutamu, Mugenzi then suggests (1) that both the RPF and the international community were "warned" of the "disaster" that could ensue if the RPF did not abide by the Arusha Accords and so are "responsible" for what has happened, (2) and that negotiations have been made even more difficult by the President's "assassination" and the "fear" and "fury" that it has generated among the Rwandan people.
Next, Ngirumpatse defends the Rwandan government against charges that it is constitutionally invalid. In the course of his defense, Ngirumpatse again refers to RPF "illusions."
Mugenzi then suggests (1) that the international community is largely "responsible" (this word is repeated many times) for the "socio-political disorder" that some journalist call "barbarity." (2) that the international community was "responsible" for allowing the unchecked "infiltration of RPF agents and soldiers in different quarters of Kigali," (3) that the President's assassination by the RPF bears witness to the UNAMIR's faulty surveillance, (4) that he, Mugenzi, warned several UN ambassadors that their treatment of the RPF was unacceptable and threatened to bring about events for which the UN would be "responsible."
Repeating the word "responsibility," Mukarutamu asks Ngirumpatse to say more about the Belgian contingent's role.
Ngirumpatse "denounces" the international community's role in the "disaster," alleging that in the UNAMIR and Belgian controlled regions of Kirambo and Mutura the RPF was allowed "to kill the population," including politicians like Gatabazi Felicien and Bucyana.
Transmission identity needs to be confirmed
In this round table discussion hosted by Agensta Mukarutama featuring Murego, Ngirumpatse, Nsengiyumva, and Mugenzi, the participants discuss RPF plans to return Rwanda to its pre-revolutionary state in which the minority enslaved the majority. The speakers suggest that both the RPF and the international community were warned about the consequences of an RPF attack and so are now responsible for Rwanda's "socio-political disaster."
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 17
Producer: RTLM and Radio Rwanda
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Continuing the discussion that ends side A, Ngirumpatse (1) suggests that the Belgians collaborated in the President's assassination, (2) asserts Belgians were seen fighting on the side of the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) and firing at Rwandan soldiers and (3) concludes that the Belgians and UNAMIR bear "responsibility" for the "disaster."
In response, Mukarutamu says it is "curious that Belgium gets bogged down every time there are problems between Hutus and Tutsis."
Murego explains that the UN is "responsible" for the situation in Rwanda because (1) it favored the RPF, (2) allowed the RPF to commit assassinations, (3) was insensitive to the rights of "the Rwandan people."
Murego goes on to suggest that (1) the Belgians act as though they wish "to conquer the country again, (2) that though they may soon leave, this does not "cancel the judgment" made upon them, (3) that some Belgians have decided to side "with the RPF to harm Rwanda and the Rwandans," (4) that some of these Belgians might have been killed in a fire fight. Murego concludes by saying that "Rwanda became an independent country that nobody can invade."
Responding to a further question about the role of the Belgians, Ngirumpatse suggests (1) that Belgians think of Rwandans as exceedingly polite and try to take advantage of this, (2) that some Rwandan political parties tried to strengthen Belgium's influence in Rwanda, (3) that if Rwandan's aren't more careful people will confuse their "docility" with a lack of self-determination, (4) and that submitting to the RPF "hands and feet tied" will bring not bring prosperity to Rwandans. Ngirumpatse concludes by suggesting that Rwandans should be more like the Roman emperor who understood that it was better to be feared than liked.
Next, in an exchange with Mukarutama, Ngirumpatse discusses Ugandan reaction to the current events, charging that Museveni (1) helped the RPF wreak havoc in Kigali and elsewhere, (2) and that he did not respect or understand that Rwandan people had killed because of anger over their President's assassination. Ngirumpatse also criticized the hypocrisy of the international community because it does not condemn the human rights violations perpetrated in Uganda. Finally, Ngirumpatse predicts that before too long Museveni will have Rwanda type "problem."
Dr. Murego ends the "debate" by highlighting its main points: (1) that the "Rwandan people's . . . fierce defense" demonstrates a refusal to "any longer be unconditionally docile" and a desire "to be in control of their own destiny," (2) that a new step is being taken to complete the Revolution of 1959, wherein the Rwandan people are not liberating themselves from "bad physical leadership" but from those related "to the family or ethnicity of those leaders," (3) that the latter signals a "mental revolution" because it shows that the Rwandan people "will never stand anymore to be anyone's slaves," (4) that this revolution will ensure that the "docility" (this word is often repeated) attributed to the Rwandan people will never again be used to humiliate them and deprive them of their rights, (5) that this is a way of saying "'no' to any dictatorial" intentions of the enemy.
Mukarutamu ends the broadcast by thanking her guests and calling on the Rwandan people to "control their destiny…defend their right to dignity . . . [and to be] vigilant and intelligent."
Transmission identity needs to be confirmed
In the second half of this round table discussion hosted by Agensta Mukarutama featuring Murego, Ngirumpatse, Nsengiyumva, and Mugenzi, the participants focus on the Belgians and their "responsibility" for the "disaster" taking place in Rwanda. They are accused of collaborating with the RPF and its murder or Habyarimana and taking advantage of the "docility" of the Rwandan people. The Rwandan people are in turn praised for their "fierce defense" which ensures that they will "never again" be enslaved as they were before the Revolution of 1959.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 18
Producer: Radio Rwanda
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
This tape begins with an interview of an unidentified Minister by an unidentified journalist. The Minister attempts to give an explanation for the massacres that have taken place since Habyarimana's death. He then urges the population to work with the Army and their local authorities. A statement from the Ministry of Defense follows with accusations of atrocities committed by the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF). Gaudence Nyirahabimana, President of the MFBP is next with a statement supporting the new government. Side A ends with an interview of Sixbert Ndayambaje, burgomaster of Runda, in which he offers evidence of an RPF infrastructure in Rwanda. Bamwanga adds a direct call against Karekezi, a printer in Kigali.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 18
Producer: Radio Rwanda
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
This tape includes the conclusion to the interview with Sixbert Ndayambaje, the burgomaster of Runda commune, from Archive #075A. Ndayambaje explains that the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF)'s plans involve killing people as a necessary means to obtaining power. The interview is then broadcasted in French and focuses on the RPF's having established a network within Rwanda's borders. An unidentified journalist follows with news bulletins and a letter from the "Association of those who love Rwanda" calling for cooperation between the government, military, and citizens, and criticizing the RPF. The tape ends with a statement from the "Intikiza" with a call for an end to the fighting.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 19
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 19
Producer: Radio Rwanda
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Cette cassette est entièrement composée d'une discussion entre le journaliste Bicamumpaka, Murego du MDR, Ngirumpatse du MRND, Mbonampeka du PL et Nsengiyumva du PSD. Suivant l'introduction de Bicamumpaka, dans laquelle il explique que le Rwanda vie des moments difficiles à cause de la guerre déclenchée par le FPR, la discussion se poursuit sur ces thèmes: (1) le FPR fait preuve de son orgueil en refusant de reconnaître le nouveau gouvernement Rwandais et le FPR est accusé d'avoir déjà assassiné de hautes personnalités Rwandaises, (2) le FPR a l'intention de restaurer la monarchie d'antan, (3) défendre les personnes qui ont été victimes des massacres suivant l'assassinat de Habyarimana n'est qu'un prétexte pour masquer leur propre but d'exterminer la population, (4) le FPR est accusé d'avoir assassiné le Président Habyarimana, (5) le FPR avait préparé la reprise de la guerre depuis longtemps et s'étaient infiltrés parmi la population, (6) la guerre d'aujourd'hui n'est qu'une continuation de la révolution de 1959, (7) les Inkotanyi vont se faire exterminer car la population Rwandaise refusera de subir le règne du FPR, (8) la population doit veiller contre les complices qui se sont infiltrés grâce au gouvernement précédent.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 21
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 21
Producer: Radio Rwanda
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
This tape consists of Bamwanga's interview with political party leaders Karemera (MRND), Mbonyumutwa (MDR), Mbonampeka (PL), and Nsengiyumva (PSD). They discuss the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF)'s true motives behind its claim that it is only fighting the Presidential Guards and the Interahamwe-CDR. Bamwanga also asks the party leaders to discuss why the RPF appears concerned with the deaths of former Hutu politicians. The four men generally agree that the RPF is interested only in obtaining power and in disguising their "Inyenzi" and UNAR origins.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 21
Producer: Radio Rwanda
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
This tape has the second half of Bamwanga's interview from Archive #080A with political party leaders Karemera (MRND), Mbonyumutwa (MDR), Mbonampeka (PL), and Nsengiyumva (PSD). They continue their discussion about the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF)'s motives when it defends the cause of dead Hutu politicians. Bamwanga and the party leaders also address the RPF's call to Rwandans to join them before "it is too late." Again there is general agreement that the RPF is interested only in obtaining power and that the RPF is attempting to "trick" and mislead people. The men also suggest that the RPF is appealing to the population because it fears it will lose the war.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 22
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 23
Producer: Radio Rwanda
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Un journaliste non-identifié commence la cassette avec une déclaration que les forces armées du FPR "massacrent systématiquement" la population Rwandaise. Il ajoute que le FPR est responsable de l'assassinat du Président Habyarimana et que la population doit collaborer avec la FAR pour combattre l'infiltration des Inkotanyi. Ce journaliste est suivi d'un entretien de Froduald Karamira du MDR par Nkundibiza. Karamira annonce que les "Inyenzi" se trouvant à Kigali se font arrêtés par la population aux barrières. Il annonce aussi qu'il ne reste plus que Nyanza, Rebero et Kacyiru a nettoyé. Karamira dit à la population de ne pas se mettre engroupe car les Inkotanyi sont capables de tirer dans la foule. Il accuse le FPR de vouloir exterminer la population et qu'il faut donc donner une formation à la population pour qu'elle puisse se défendre. Karamira ajoute que les Inkotanyi font exterminer les Tutsi car ils ont fait de cette guerre une guerre ethnique. Rwakana prend la relève et s'entretient avec plusieurs citoyens Rwandais à Kigali. Ces Rwandais rapportent que les Inkotanyi font des masscres un peu partout dans le pays. Certains ajoutent que les routes sont pleins de cadavres d'Inkotanyi aussi. Un journaliste non-identifié annonce que le FPR refuse de prendre sa place aux négociations sans que le gouvernement Rwandais mette fin aux massacres.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 24
Producer: Radio Rwanda
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Cette cassette annonce le départ d'une majorité des troupes de la MINUAR et le début des négociations avec le FPR. Un journaliste loue les efforts de la population et annonce que les Inkotanyi ont de plus en plus de difficultés à s'échapper de Kigali. A plusieurs reprises le FPR est accusé d'avoir perpétré des massacres contre des civiles Rwandais. La cassette contient aussi deux entrtiens: l'un avec le Secrétaire Général Adjoint de la Croix Rouge Internationale, Paul Greet Rider, et l'autre avec le Ministre d'Information, Eliezer Niyitegeka. Niyitegeka explique que les 13.000 réfugiés qui se trouvent au Stade Amahoro, à l'Hôpital Faycal et aux Hôtels Méridien et Milles Collines doivent être identifiés avant de pouvoir partir vers des lieux plus sûrs. Il insinue aussi que la question de la légitimité du gouvernement Rwandais est sans base et que ce gouvernement est reconnu par la communauté internationale aussi bien que par l'O.N.U.
Air Date: 1994 June 10
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Bemeriki maintient que l'installation des institutions de transition n'a pas été accompli parce que les "Inyenzi Inkotanyi" ont re-déclenché la guerre. Elle interview Jean-Pierre Kajuga de la commune Murambi qui rapporte que la préfecture de Byumba est devenu "un repaire des soldats de Museveni." Kajuga explique qu'un comité a été formé pour se charger de "l'autodéfense" et que chaque personne doit se servir des armes même si ce ne sont que des armes traditionnelles. Bemeriki rapporte ensuite que la presse internationale "a avoué" que les "Inyenzi" ont tué des religieux et que le Pape est déconcerté. Ananie prend son tour au micro et explique que la communauté internationale continue à rapporter des informations erronées obtenues des Inkotanyi. Un journaliste non-identifié rapporte que 650.000 Hutu sont morts à Byumba et 500.000 sont morts à Kibungo. Bemeriki reprend le micro et commence une discussion avec Bernard Hategekimana qui travail au journal "Kamarampaka." Les deux journalistes sont d'accord que les forces armées Rwandaises "ont la situation en main" et que les habitants qui avaient fui devant l'avance Inkotanyi sont revenus. Hategekimana explique que les Inkotanyi continue à lancer des bombes sur la population. Bemeriki, Bernard Mukwiye et Ananie terminent la cassette. Ils s'adressent à la situation à Gisenyi où la population a été "sensibilisé," et à la propagande des Inkotanyi qui veulent que les Rwandais se disputent entre nord et sud.
Air Date: 1994 June 5
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 June 9
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 May 17
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Jan. 6
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date [not available]
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 20
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Radio Rwanda
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1993 Oct. 25
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Hitimana commence cette cassette avec une défense de la RTLM qu'il dit est faussement accusé de vouloir semer la mésentente. Il continue son monologue en adressant ces thèmes: (1) les Hutu doivent se réunir est former un collectif semblable à celui des Tutsi, (2) un message du MDR qui soutient la RTLM, (3) l'annonce d'une marchr de chagrin au Burundi. Kantano prend le micro ensuite et déclare que: (1) les Tutsi "mangeurs du chien" ont assassiné le Président Burundais Ndadaye, (2) les Tutsi ont des tendances exterminatrices, (3) le Premier Ministre Uwilingiyimana collabore avec les complices Inkotanyi, (4) les Tutsi sont des sanguinaires. Hitimana reprend le micro et interview des infirmes et un docteur à l'hôpital des forces armées cette "journée de l'armée." L'effet de l'entretien est de démontré le niveau de souffrance qui est le résultat de cette guerre déclenchée par les Inkotanyi. Hitimana termine l'émission en accusant les Inkotanyi d'avoir tué 70 élèves à l'Ecole Normale de Kirimbi dans la province de Gitega.
Air Date: 1993 Oct. 29
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1993 Nov. 12
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1993 Nov. 20
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
This tape contains evidence of general incitement. Listeners are warned that the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) will never accept democracy and will carry out attacks whenever possible. The tape also implies that the government is losing control of the situation.
This tape begins with a short monologue by Kantano criticizing the government's unwillingness to respond to the situation in Ruhengeri. The interview/discussion with Gahigi and Nahimana follows and focuses on the government's complicity in alleged Inkotanyi plots to take power. The Inkotanyi are linked to Tutsis and the "Inyenzi" of 1959 and are accused of numerous atrocities.
Air Date: 1993 Nov. 20
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
The tape offers strong evidence of incitement in the sense that the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) is exclusively blamed for recent atrocities in Ruhengeri. The participants of the discussion are adamant about the RPF's unwillingness to find a peaceful solution.
This tape continues a discussion/interview with Gahigi, Kantano, and Nahimana. They discuss Kanyarengwe's defection to the RPF and his chances of political survival in the game he is playing. Much of the broadcast is otherwise spent criticizing the RPF and warning Rwandans of the RPF's divisive tactics and unwillingness to obey the Arusha Accords. Kantano spends some time teaching listeners how to recognize UNAMIR soldiers.
Air Date: 1993 Dec. 1
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1993 Dec. 12
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Cette cassette est composée entièrement d'une discussion entre Gahigi, Jean Bosco Barayagwiza, un homme nommé Ravi, Madame Mbonampeka, Charles Nkurunziza et Marie Claire Rwabukwisi. Leur discussion tourne autour de ces thèmes: (1) l'importance des ethnies au Rwanda - Ravi maintient qu'il n'y a pas de différence entre les Hutu et Tutsi tandis que les autres, Barayagwiza en particulier, maintiennent qu'il existe des différences et qu'il faut les souligner, (2) les Hutu ont longtemps souffert sous la domination des Tutsi et il est impossible d'oublier ce fait maintenant, (3) les Tutsi ont gardé la mentalité de supériorité qu'ils tenaient avant la révolution de 1959, (4) la vraie différence Hutu-Tutsi est une différence de culture, (5) le problème Hutu-Tutsi est un problème de "qui doit gouverner ce pays," (6) une accusation que les Tutsi veulent monopoliser le pouvoir, (7) les Hutu constitue la majorité, ils devraient donc pouvoir gouverner le pays, (8) le problème des Hutu et Tutsi est localisé chez une "mauvaise administration," (9) les Tutsi n'ont pas le droit d'exterminer la population si ils sont refusés le droit de rentrer au Rwanda, (10) le seul remède pour le problème ethnique est que les deux côtés s'asseyent ensemble pour discuter.
Air Date: 1995 May 11
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 17
Producer: Radio Rwanda
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Cette cassette est animée par plusieurs journalistes de Radio Rwanda. Elle contient aussi des discours du Président Sindikubwabo, Stanislas Simbizi du CDR, Augustin Bizimungu qui est Chef d'Etat Major et Froduald Karamira du MDR. Parmi les thèmes invoqués sont: (1) les conditions imposées par le FPR pour commencer les négociations sont presque impossible à satisfaire, (2) le FPR emploie des mercenaires dans ses forces armées, (3) au cours des combats dans Kigali un complice des Inkotanyi a été découvert, un Monsieur Harerimana Froduald, (4) le FPR a préparé la guerre au cours de plusieurs mois, (5) il est souhaitable que la population reste sur place et surveille l'infiltration des Inkotanyi en collaborant avec la FAR, (6) les événements de la semaine passée ont pour cause la mort du Président Habyarimana qui a engendré une réponse de fureur de la part de la population, (7) l'équipement Ugandais se trouve dans la possession des forces du FPR, (8) à plusieurs reprises les journalistes annoncent les quartiers dans lesquels se trouvent des Inkotanyi, (9) le bâtiment de la RTLM a été bombardé par les Inkotanyi, (10) le comportement de la population sera suivi de près, (11) les Belges sont accusés de s'être alliés aux Inkotanyi et d'avoir permis l'assassinat du Président Habyarimana.
Air Date: 1994 June 16
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 mAY 16-17
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1995 May 21
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 June 9
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 June 11
Producer: Radio Muhabura
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Aside from claims that the genocide was planned by the authorities and that the radio in Rwanda played a role, the transcript offers little in the way of evidence. It mainly attempts to portray the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) in a positive light.
This tape consists of two interviews done by Radio Muhabura. Both involve Rwandans formerly involved with the FAR. In conjunction with an unidentified journalist, Alphonse Mukurarinda and Christophe Ntiryigirayo attempt to reassure Rwandans about the Inkotanyi. Both insist that they have been well treated and that the RPF has been misrepresented.
Air Date: 1994 June 13
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 June 13
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 June 14
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Cette cassette est composée de longs monologues de la part de Bemeriki et Ruggiu suivit d'une discussion entre Gahigi et Ananie. Les thèmes développés au cours de l'émission sont: (1) Kagame refuse de donner les dépouilles de mort parce qu'il cache les atrocités des Inkotanyi ainsi que le fait que les Inkotanyi sont des cannibales, (2) les "Inyenzi" essaient de faire fuir la population en tirant en l'air pour faire croire qu'ils sont très nombreux, (3) les "complices" des Inkotanyi sont visés, en particulier un Colonel qui serait accusé de semer la désinformation, (4) Kanyarengwe est accusé d'avoir vendu ses semblables Hutu aux "Inyenzi," (5) les Inkotanyi sont accusés d'avoir attaqué et tué les religieux de le diocèse de Kabgayi, (6) toute information que les Inkotanyi ont capturé Gitarama est fausse, (7) le Général Dallaire de la MINUAR est accusé d'avoir aidé les Inkotanyi, (8) un manuscrit qui explique les "vraies visées" des Inkotanyi a été trouvé, (9) ce manuscrit offre des preuves que les Inkotanyi tenaient absolutement a commencé la guerre plutôt que accepter le partage de pouvoir dicté par les Accords d'Arusha.
Air Date: 1994 June 14
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 June 09
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Une partie de la face A est vierge
Cette cassette commence avec un interview du Bourgmestre de Muhazi, Jean Marie Vianney Rutagengwa, mené par Gahigi et Ananie. Au cours de leur entretien les thèmes suivant se présentent: (1) les Inkotanyi ont employé des ruses pour massacré des civils, des femmes et des enfants, (2) dans plusieurs communes (Gikoro, Duha, Musha, etc.) la population a été exterminée, (3) Rutagengwa compare son trajet vers Kigali à un Calvaire, (4) les Inkotanyi s'infiltrent parmi les réfugiés au stade Amahoro. Bemeriki passe ensuite au micro. D'un côté elle annonce que la communauté internationale commence à réaliser la méchanceté des Inkotanyi, d'un autre elle déclare que dans certains endroits les forces armées en collaboration avec la population ont réussi à repousser les Inkotanyi. Elle annonce que les "Inyenzi" vont se suicider si ils n'abandonnent pas cette guerre. Elle encourage la population de continuer à pourchasser les "Inyenzi" où qu'ils se trouvent. Ananie termine l'émission en déclarant que les radios étrangères ont finalement dénoncé les Inkotanyi. Il ajoute que les Inkotanyi ont tué à peu près 300.000 Hutu.
Air Date: 1994 June 15
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 22
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
The transcript contains strong evidence of general incitement as well as repeated justification for anything that has taken place. The tape should be checked for the identity of several speakers. There are many interruptions.
This tape contains a lengthy attack by Bemeriki against Twagiramungu. He is repeatedly accused of conspiring with the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) to murder Habyarimana and of wanting to establish their own regime. They are also accused of starting the war and are held responsible for the "killings." Nonetheless, they are warned that they will be destroyed if they do not give up the fight. The Belgians are accused of helping the RPF. Karamira and Simbizi are interviewed.
Air Date: 1994 May 29-30
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Cette émission est animée par Ananie, Kantano, et Gahigi. Ils s'adressent aux thèmes suivant: (1) Kagame est accusé de faire exterminer tout sur son passage et de penser que les Hutu ne sont pas des êtres humains, (2) un appel est lancé aux réfugiés du Camp Benaco qu'ils s'organisent pour revenir dans le pays et tuer des "Inyenzi," (3) Dallaire est accusé d'être complice des Inkotanyi, (4) il est exigé que la population reste sur place et participe aux combats contre les "Inyenzi," (5) les Inkotanyi à Nyamirambo et Muhima ont été exterminés, (6) la population est incité de participer aux massacres des "Inyenzi" tout en leur expliquant que si les Inkotanyi gagnent la guerre ils n'épargneront aucun Hutu, (7) les Inkotanyi sont accusés d'avoir bombardé la Ste Famille où se trouvent de nombreux réfugiés, (8) il n'empêche, les Inkotanyi se suicident comme des fourmis, (9) les Inkotanyi ne font que compliquer les efforts de négociations, (10) il est demandé que la population continue les patrouilles nocturnes pour empêcher que les Inkotanyi attaquent la nuit, (11) il serait souhaitable que la population n'écoute pas la propagande des Inkotanyi qui passe aux radios étrangères (12) les Inkotanyi sont accusés d'avoir attaqué en aboyant comme des chiens et de s'être déguisé en jupons, (13) l'Interahamwe est félicité pour son travail et ile est souhaité que la popultion reste vigilante.
Air Date: 1994 June 04
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
La plus grande partie de cette cassette contient une discussion entre Bemeriki et plusieurs personnes déplacées se trouvant maintenant dans les environs de Kigali. Au cours de ces échanges nous apprenons que les Inkotanyi ont tué de nombreux Hutu qui n'ont paspu s'échapper. Bemeriki essaie de convaincre ces réfugiés de retourner dans leurs propres communes pour pouvoir participer aux combats contre les Inyenzi. Elle tente de convaincre ces personnes que les soldats du FAR sont en train d'exterminer les Inkotanyi ou que les réfugiés eux-mêmes, si ils s'unissent et retournent chex eux, peuvent vaincre les Inkotanyi car ceux-ci sont peu nombreux. Bemeriki explique aussi que en quittant leurs biens, les réfugiés aident la cause des "Inyenzi." La majorités des réfugiés sont près à retourner chez eux mais seulement en compagnie du FAR ou de leurs bourgmestre, conseillers, etc. Ils réclament des armes aussi. Un des déplacé annonce que la préfecture de Byumba est presque entièrement vidée de Hutu. Bemeriki termine l'émission en annonçant que la plus part des déplacés sont près à s'armer pour retourner chez eux et faire face à l'ennemi. Elle ajoute que les "Inyenzi" continuent à essayer de tromper l'opinion internationale.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Ccassette contient la fameuse annonce que "quelque chose se prépare le 3, 4 et 5 à Kigali . . . etc.
Cette cassette commence avec l'interrogatoire d'un soldat capturé du FPR par un interrogateur de la FAR. Le soldat capturé révèle que les Inkotanyi se trouvent à Rebero et qu'ils ont vécu ensemble avec les Belges. Hitimana passe au micro ensuite pour commencer un long monologue dans lequel il déclare que: (1) plusieurs complices des Inkotanyi ont été découvert à Butete, Kidaho, Gitare et Burambi, (2) des gens se font tués ou enlevés par les Inkotanyi dans la zone tampon, (3) un certain Frédéric Nzamurambaho a refusé de paraître au tribunal au sujet d'une enquête à propos de la mort de Félicien Gatabazi. Gahigi suit Hitimana dans un entretien avec le Procureur Général Mbarushimana. L'entretien s'adresse au refus du Ministre Nzamurambaho de comparaître devant la cour. Le procureur donne son avis que personne ne devrait se permettre de croire qu'il est plus important que la loi. Ananie entre en discussion avec ses collègues et offre l'opinion que Nzamurambaho est responsable de la famine dans sa préfecture de Gikongoro. Hitimana reprend le micro ensuite et termine la cassette avec les propos suivants: (1) il vise plusieurs chauffeurs de taxis sous prétexte qu'ils transportent les Inkotanyi au CND, (2) le FPR se prépare à exterminer la population Rwandaise, (3) en attendant la guerre les Inkotanyi se contente de tuer des Hutu petit à petit, (4) il annonce que selon ses complices inkotanyi "le 3, le 4 et le 5 il devra avoir quelque chose dans cette ville de Kigali … se reposer le 6 et ensuite le 7 et le 8 reprendre en utilisant les balles et grenades," (5) il demande que Madame Uwilingiyimana s'explique devant un tribunal pour avoir accusé le CDR "d'avoir fait le génocide."
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Il n'y a pas de date sur le transcrit qui nous est parvenu du TPIR, mais je crois qu'il s'agit du 7 ou 8 avril, 1994
La face B est vierge
Bemeriki et Hitimana commencent cette cassette avec une discussion qui tourne autour des objectifs du nouveau gouvernement. Ils déclarent que: (1) le gouvernement ne doit pas travailler comme celui de Uwilingiyimana et il doit maintenir la sécurité, (2) Uwilingiyimana est en partie responsable de la famine à Gikongoro, (3) ils viennent d'apprendre que Uwilingiyimana est décédée. Un journaliste non-identifié suit avec un interview du Général Roméo Dallaire. Ce dernier parait irrité mais il annonce qu'il est de l'avis qu'un cessez-le-feu est préférable à l'état de guerre que subit le Rwanda. Ensuite Robert Simba ou Aimable Sibomana lit un communiqué du Préfet Karera qui demande à la population de redoubler de vigilance. Bemeriki le suit et annonce que des "Inyenzi" sont en train de brûler dans la cave de Sebera. Elle dénonce ensuite les Belges qu'elle accuse d'avoir été complices des Inkotanyi. Mbilizi est le prochain à prendre le micro. Il demande lui aussi à la population de redoubler de vigilance et de veiller sur les "petites infiltrations." Bemeriki termine l'émission en annonçant que les Inkotanyi qui se trouvaient chez les prêtres de Kicukiro sont tous morts.
Air Date: 1994 May 23
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
The tape begins with an unidentified francophone speaker who (1) says that the war has become a "guerrilla" conflict with the FAR "pursuing the enemy everywhere" and watching out for infiltrators because, (2) "Either we crush the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF), or we get crushed by it!"
The broadcaster continues by alleging that the RPF "orchestrated" the massacres "with the complicity of the Belgians" and that the killing of President Habyarimana and other politicians such as Gapyisi, Rwambuka, Gatabazi, and Bucyana was meant to provoke the population's anger and cause the massacres.
After a musical interlude, Nkurunziza Ananie takes the microphone and (1) details the RPF conspiracy to assassinate Habyarimana and alleges that Mobutu had also been slated to die, (2) claims that Kanyarengwe and "his Inyenzi-tutsi" had killed Hutus in Murera, Buberuka, Kibali, Ndorwa, Rukiga, Buganza, Gisaka, and that "the Tutsi army exterminated all the Hutus in Bwanacyambwe region," (3) denies Muhabura claims of RPF advances, (4) and claims that the US is finally realizing the RPF are "Tutsi terrorists" who refuse to negotiate.
Kantano speaks next. He (1) denies reports that the RPF is capturing Kigali, (2) says the Belgians will heretofore be "treated like . . . any Inkotanyi in this country," (3) lauds the arrival of French troops, which he suggests might "preserve [the RPF] from being exterminated" in their loosing war.
Ananie then tells of how Inyenzi were shot out of their hide-out in the "Belgian Village in Nyaryarama" and of how the Inyenzi burnt the Belgian houses during their retreat. Ananie then suggests that Sindikubwabo is like Mandela who "fought for the liberation of the whole race of . . . "bahutu"…"
Ananie then discounts reports of RPF advances and ridicules the RPF's military disorganization. He then "remind(s) everybody that Kigali city won't be [taken]" and suggests that the FAR's situation parallels that of the Allied Forces vis à vis Hitler "who is similar to the Inkotanyi who strongly believed in a superior race like the Inkotanyi, in a race created by God to govern."
Kantano then mocks Kagame's promise to take Kigali within 24 hours. He then elaborates on the RPF's conspiracy to kill the President and alleges that the RPF expected that after Habyarimana's assassination (1) everyone would bow before the RPF's heroism, (2) and that the RPF's accomplices, who were hiding in wait, would "attack you at night."
Kantano explains that this plan foundered when the Rwandan people discovered it and "immediately lynch(ed) all the accomplices within communes, prefectures or RPF brigades," so that "those who had prepared holes to put in Hutus have been the ones to go inside." Kantano claims that having lost "accomplices" like "Agatha, Ngango, Nzamurambaho", Kagame can no longer see beyond his immediate army.
Kantano claims that the elimination of accomplices has changed Kagame's strategy, because he now fears the "population [that] had smoked some hemp" and "became furious with their machetes and clubs." Kantano claims that the 50,000-80,000 armed men in Kigali would defeat the RPF, "though Tutsis pretend to be dodging artists."
Kantano then mockingly dismisses the RPF's claim to possess half the country, saying that it only holds un-populated, desert-like areas like Cyungo and Butaro. Kantano then ridiculed Kanyarengwe's instruction to "Tutsis" not to seek revenge, suggesting that such instructions might actually incite the wrath of other Tutsis who will say "'all Tutsis countrywide are dead, our relatives, our sisters, mothers and fathers.'"
After a musical break, Kantano denounces the Belgians and urges Rwandans to have courage despite adversity. Kantano then speaks of refugees from Kabeza-Kanombe whom the FAR liberated from the "RPF who had started surrounding them to kill them." At the same time, Kantano suggests that when it comes to news of RPF advances, the refugee "who is under panic . . . tends to exaggerate his story."
Kantano continues with a long monologue about the RPF's take-over of the Kigali airport which he dismisses as militarily and strategically insignificant.
Segueing from his discussion of Kigali airport, Kantano insists that in war, like in soccer, nothing is definitive until the end of the match, and that a "counter-offensive" is always possible. Kantano devotes a long moment to developing this analogy between soccer and war.
The racial designations of "Hutu" and "Tutsi" are common in the tape and are suggestive of a synonymy between "RPF," "Inkotanyi," "Inyenzi" and "Tutsi." There are also many suggestions of Tutsi against Hutu extermination goals.
Repeatedly using ethnic slurs, RTLM broadcasters Habimana and Ananie discuss the RPF's conspiracy to kill the President and massacre Hutus and false reports of RPF troop advancement. The broadcasters stress the importance of eliminating the RPF's accomplices and draw a parallel between the Nazis and the RPF, which is accused of planning and executing massacres of Hutus.
Air Date: 1994 May 23
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
The tape contains very strong statements of general incitement -- The broadcasters repeatedly insist that the conflict is between Tutsis and Hutus.
The broadcast encourages listeners to disregard rumors of Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) victories and stay "courageous": those who "work" hard at the roadblocks will be rewarded, while deserters will be tracked down and exterminated by the population. Kantano and Ananie make repeated calls to exterminate Inyenzi everywhere in the country. They also repeatedly accuse the Tutsi/RPF of perpetrating massacres and insist that the conflict is really between Hutus and Tutsis.
Air Date: 1994 May 20
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Bemeriki est l'animatrice de cette cassette. Elle s'adresse d'abord à la situation à Kibeho où, selon elle, un prêtre, l'Abbé Pierre Ngoga, a tiré sur des Hutu qui pourchassaient des Tutsi qui les avaient attaqués. Elle ajoute qu'une situation similaire a transpiré à Nyumba. Elle incite ses auditeurs à détruire toutes cachettes de l'ennemi, même une église. Bemeriki rapporte ensuite que les "Inyenzi-Inkotanyi" et les Tutsi se servent de ruses pour faire croire que les Hutu massacrent les Tutsi tandis qu'en réalité ce sont les Tutsi qui veulent exterminer les Hutu. Elle ajoute que les "Inyenzi"ont collaboré avec les sales Tutsi pour tuer le Président Habyarimana. Bemeriki fait référence ensuite aux paroles de la Vierge Marie à Kibeho le 20 mars 1989. Bemeriki démontre à travers le message de la Vierge Marie que la mère de Jésus protégera les Rwandais et accueillera lefeu Président Habyarimana. Mais Bemeriki encourage comme même ses auditeurs à se battre sérieusement car la Vierge Marie ne les aidera que si ils s'aident d'abord. Par la suite Bemeriki s'entretient avec Hassan Ngeze du journal "Kangura." Au cours de plusieurs longues réponse, Ngeze explique que le FPR tente de semer la mésentente et le désaccord parmi la population Rwandaise de façon de se mettre en position pour une prise de pouvoir. Il discute longuement cet aspect méchant des Inkotanyi.
Air Date: 1994 May 24
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 June 04-05
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
This tape contains several instances of general incitement and fairly specific instructions pertaining to "civil defense" and "security."
Bemeriki conducts an interview with Hakizimana who is the Mbogo commune burgomaster. Together, they address the following issues: atrocities committed by the Inkotanyi, organizing and carrying out the civil defense, the role of the burgomasters, and the refugee situation. Bemeriki then gives instructions to burgomasters in the Kigali area.
Air Date: 1994 June 05
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
This tape contains a very long monologue by Kanatano sandwiched between two smaller monologues by Ruggiu and Mukingo. Kantano focuses especially on the need for the Rwandan population to participate in the war effort. He calls on them to stay and fight the Inkotanyi rather than fleeing at the sound of every explosion. Kantano employs several forms of motivation from threats to promises of rewards.
Air Date: 1994 June 04
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Cette cassette est animée par Kantano et Ananie. Kantano commence en souhaitant que les réfugiés retournent à Kigali parce que les Inkotanyi n'ont plus de complices dans la ville. Il ajoute que les réfugiés peuvent donner un coup de main aux barrières et aider à terminer le "boulot" au bout d'un mois. Kantano démontre aussi que les Inkotanyi n'ont fait que semer la haine partout au Rwanda, qu'ils n'auront jamais la paix dans ce pays. Kantano conclut que les Inkotanyi n'aime pas l'être fumain et il demande à la population de s'armer de machettes et de lances pour se joindre au FAR et exterminer les Inkotanyi. Il compare aussi les Inkotanyi à des moustiques. Ananie suit Kantano et demande que les personnes aux barrières soient vigilantes. Il accuse les "Inyenzi" d'avoir tiré sur le stade Amahoro où se trouve de nombreux réfugiés. Ananie commente aussi que les Inkotanyi, aidés par Museveni, ont commis de nombreux massacres sans que la communauté internationale ou les radios étrangères en disent un mot. Kantano termine la cassette en déclarant: (1) que les "Inyenzi" ont trop pourchassé les gens et vont maintenant se faireexterminer, (2) les Inkotanyi sont coupables d'avoir chassé des gens de leurs biens, (3) les blancs qui aidaient les Inkotanyi les ont abandonnés, (4) que la population surmonte sa peur et parte à la chasse aux Inkotanyi.
Air Date: 1994 June 17
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Face A: Animation d'Ananie et Kantano Habimana.
Face B: Animation de Bemeriki Valérie et George Ruggiu.
Air Date: 1994 June 28-30
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Date of tape marked as 28-30/06/94. Not clear whether the tape is from the 28th, or the 30th, or both. On side B of the tape, Ananie at one point announces the date as Thursday, 30 June 1994.
Side A of the broadcast, hosted mostly by Bemeriki and Ruggiu, focuses broadly on the French troops' arrival in Rwanda. The broadcasters tell the population that they should cooperate with the French, but that the advice of numerous scholars and intelligent men is that it would be "absurd" for the population to hand-in their weapons or dismantle roadblocks.
Air Date: 1994 June 28
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Date of tape marked as 28-30/06/94. Not clear whether the tape is from the 28th, or the 30th, or both. On side B of the tape, Ananie at one point announces the date as Thursday, 30 June 1994.
Side B of the tape consists mostly of two extended monologues. In the first, Valerie Bemeriki explains that when she says "Inyenzi," listeners should understand she means "criminal." Bemeriki accuses the "Inyenzi-Inkotanyi" of using the French Army's arrival to extend their exterminations, and warns that anyone remaining in "Inyenzi" controlled areas is clearly also an Inyenzi and will eventually be treated as one. Bemeriki subsequently calls for the death of the four political figures she holds responsible for Habyarimana's assassination. In the second monologue, Ananie Nkurunziza makes a direct call against the occupants of a house in Kacyiru, encourages people in Kimisagara, Muhima, and Rugenge to fire at any "Inyenzi" coming their way, and urges listeners not to let bad weather keep them from manning the roadblocks. Ananie also criticizes the unequal distribution of international aid between Tutsi and Hutu refugees, but says that the international press now acknowledges that "Inyenzi attack villages to kill Hutu populations."
Air Date: 1993 Nov. 23
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1993 Nov. 24
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
The identity of the journalist should be verified, but it does appear to be Kantano.
The tape consists mostly of specific attacks against Gasana, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and to accusations of Uwilingiyimana's and the extended transitional government's collaboration with the Inkotanyi. It also accuses the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) of recent massacres in Ruhengeri and of wanting to set up a "Tutsi land" within Rwanda and Burundi.
Air Date: 1993 Nov. 24
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
The identity of the speaker should be double-checked, but I am reasonably certain that it is Habimana Kantano.
The entire tape is a long monologue by Kantano focusing on the massacre that took place in Ruhengeri. Kantano repeatedly accuses the Inkotanyi of having committed the atrocities and includes witness testimonies from the area in his monologue. Kantano also suggests that neither the UN forces nor the Rwandan government have done anything to investigate the massacre and establish the Inkotanyi's guilt. Faustin Twagiramungu and Minister Gasana are both taken to task for their ineffectiveness. It is implied that both men are also guilty of various improprieties. Twagiramungu in particular is said to have a favorable relationship with the Inkotanyi.
Air Date: 1993 Nov. 25
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1993 Nov. 26-29
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1993 Dec. 9
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1993 Dec. 6-7
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1993 Dec. 08
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Side B of the tape is missing
The tape consists of a series of Kantano Habimana reports from Burundi and an extended monologue by Gaspard Gahigi. Gaspard, in his extended monologue, critiques the transitional government, alleging that it takes the power from the people. He calls on the church to lend its intelligence apparatuses and files to the cause of restoring the people's power and helping to identify the "killers who are trying to decimate the population." Gahigi then discusses the political significance of popular songs and demonstrates how they can be read for inspiration. He then introduces Kantano's reportage from Burundi by suggesting that the "known enemy" in Burundi is the same as in Rwanda. From Burundi, Kantano reports on the recent murder of the Burundian President Ndadaye and obliquely suggests that Tutsis in the government might have been behind the murder. Kantano also reports that Tutsi bandits are taking advantage of the Burundian refugee crisis to rob and kill Hutus.
Air Date: 1993 Nov. 29-30
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1993 Dec. 09
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
A plusieurs instances la traductrice n'a pas traduit certaines parties de l'émission ayant jugé que ce n'était pas important.
Kantano commence cette cassette et sert d'animateur pour une grande partie de l'émission. Il déclare que: (1) il ne défend pas la cause du MRND, mais il refuse de l'entendre faussement soupçonné d'avoir commis des atrocités dont les Inkotanyi sont coupables, (2) certaines personnes qui résident au Byumba et au Ruhengeri sont en fait des complices des Inkotanyi, mais il ajoute qu'il ne hait pas les Tutsi, (3) qu'il y a une conférence de presse à l'hôtel des Diplomates pour le PL Hutu et Tutsi, (4) le Premier Ministre Uwilingiyimana dit que quelqu'un veut la tuer, (5) que deux professeurs Zaîrois et Victor Niyitegeka devraient veiller à ce qu'ils ne se battent pas avec leurs étudiants parce que cela risque de mal tourner pour eux. Gahigi et Hitimana passent ensuite au micro mais ils ont juste le temps de indiquer leur désire de s'adresser au problème des Inkotanyi vers qui les jeunes se tournent.
Air Date: 1993 Dec. 12-14
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Jan. 3-4
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Jan. 4
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Jan. 05
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
La face B est vierge
La cassette commence avec un monologue de Gahigi. II s'adresse aux sujets suivant: (1) Le Premier Ministre Uwilingiyimana n'aide pas la cause des femmes quand elle manque de respect à un homme, particulièrement au Président Habyarimana, (2) un communiqué du PDC annonce que le parti retire son soutien du Premier Ministre Désigné Twagiramungu car ce dernier voudrait ignorer la démocratie. Kantano prend la suite et fait un rapport sur les cérémonies au CND où le Président Habyarimana vient de prêter serment de diriger la transition aux élections. Il raconte que Madame Uwilingiyimana a tourné son dos au Président et que toute l'assemblée a été surpris de voir Habyarimana prêter serment. Kantano reste au micro et dirige un entretien avec Monseigneur Sebununguli. Les deux hommes discutent le développement d'une nouvelle faction du PL. Dorénavant il existera le PL/Lando et le PL/Mugenzi. Les députés du FPR annoncent déjà qu'ils ne prêteront pas serment si les députés du PL/Lando ne prêtent pas leur serment. Gahigi reprend brièvement le micro pour déclarer que le journal "Interahamwe" déplore l'attitude malhonnête de Twagiramungu, Uwilingiyimana et Kavaruganda. Habyarimana, lors d'un discours plus tard dans la journée au CND, annonce qu'il est déçu que certains députés ne se sont pas montrés pour prêter serment. Kantano termine l'émission en déclarant qu'il pense qu'il y a un piège et que c'est pour cela que des députés ne sont pas venus prêter serment.
Air Date: 1994 Jan. 7
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Jan. 13-14
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Jan. 14
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Jan. 15
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Jan. 15-17
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Jan. 18
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Jan. 19
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Jan. 20
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Jan. 21
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
The first part of side a features an interview between Gahigi and Froduald Karamira in which the two men attack Twagiramungu for his unlawful attempt s to manipulate parliamentary law and thereby help the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF). The second part of Side A consists of an extended monologue by Gahigi in which he analyses a recent assassination attempt against Mugenzi, the President of the PL. Gahigi asserts that Twagiramungu, Landouard, and the RPF are behind the matter and that this is part of a larger strategy of using assassinations to gain power and influence in Rwanda. Reading a letter from Martin Ndabazi, Gahigi warns that Rwandans know who these "enemies" of the country are plan to take their revenge on them. In the course of his monologue, Gahigi suggests that Habyarimana himself might be one of the people targeted for assassination by the enemies of Rwanda.
Air Date: 1994 Jan. 21
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Side B of the tape is comprised of a single monologue by Kantano. It begins with an appeal to gendarmes not to attack the population should it "get angry" at Twagiramungu and decide to attack him. The monologue continues with a call to political parties "to strangle" like a common thief, anyone in their midst who does not who does not work for the good the party and the state. (Twagiramungu is given as an example.) Later in the tape, in the midst of a series of short reports on various Hutu-Tutsi tensions, Kantano suggests that Tutsis have plans "to bring turmoil and kill[ing]" to Rwanda and that Inkotanyi spies have infiltrated the country to begin "sensitizing" the Tutsi population to their plan.
Air Date: 1994 Jan. 21-24
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Jan. 24-25
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Jan. 26
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Feb. 8
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Mar. 15
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
A quelques endroits la traductrice donne un résumé du programme
La face A de cette cassette est animé par un journaliste non-identifié qui s'adresse aux problèmes autour du Projet Crête Zaîre Nil. Le journaliste accuse Frédéric Nzamurambaho, le Ministre de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage, de semer le désordre dnas ce projet. Il se trouve que Nzamurambaho veut remplacer le Directeur du Projet, Monsieur Célestin Mutabaruka avec Monsieur Tharcisse Bakundukize qui est Tutsi et adhérent du PSD comme Nzamurambaho. Le journaliste lit les deux lettres que a écrit Mutabaruka aux officiels du gouvernement. Mutabaruka maintient que Nzamurambaho est responsable de l'insécurité autour du projet et de la région. Hitimana commence la face B en annonçant que les idées sanguinaires des Inkotanyi ont été découvertes à temps et qu'ils ont réalisé que les Tutsi seraient exterminés si ils mettaient le programme en place. Hitimana déclare aussi que les Hutu ont eu le temps d'étudier depuis 1959 et qu'ils contrôlent l'infiltration des Inkotanyi dans le pays. Hitimana termine l'émission en visant plusieurs personnes et les accusant d'être soit Ugandais, soit Inkotanyi.
Air Date: 1994 Mar. 15-16
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Mar. 16
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Mar. 6
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Mar. 16
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
The first part of the tape consists of a long monologue by Kantano in which he reports on the alleged Inkotanyi massacre of five workers from the COOPTHE tea project in Cyohoha-Rukeri. Kantano criticizes the UN for allowing the Inkotanyi to occupy the demilitarized zone in which the murders took place. Kantano also details the Inkotanyi infiltration of the commune of Sake and warns of coming attacks by the Inkotanyi. An MRND communiqué is read warning that the Rwanda people will take action if the Rwandan government and the UNAMIR do not do a better job of protecting people. Ruggiu and Rucogoza follow with similar reports in French. Rucugoza also gives Gaspard Habumuremyi a chance to refute RTLM allegations that Patrice Uwimana drove Habumuremyi to Cyangugu in a car full of Inkotanyi.
Air Date: 1994 Mar. 16
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
This tape continues the French broadcast from 168A. Rucogoza and Ruggiu make several announcements and unidentified speaker explains the development of public non-governmental radio and television stations in Belgium. Kantano then gives details of an alleged attack by the Inkotanyi in which five civilians were murdered. Kantano explains that the Inkotanyi have infiltrated themselves in such a way as to be able to carry out significant attacks in an attempt to take power. He warns that the Inkotanyi cannot be trusted to exist in peace. The death announcements and the MRND communiqué related to the Cyohoha-Rukeri massacre from 168A are repeated verbatim.
Air Date: 1994 Mar. 17
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Les animateurs des émissions sont: Valérie at Gahigi.
La cassette contient beaucoup d'émissions entre autres, l'interview de Monsieur Mugenzi. Ce dernier parle de la division au sein du parti PL. Elle contient également les commentaires sur l'assassinat des 5 personnes qui travaillaient dans une usine à thé de Cyohoha Rukeri. Il est interviewé par Gahigi Gaspard, rédacteur en chef de la RTLM.
Y figure également le communiqué émanant du parti MRND, dans sa réunion qu'il avait tenu dans le seul but de condamner cet acte ignoble de l'assassinat de ces 5 personnes qui travaillait dans l'usine de Cyohoha Rucyeri.
Air Date: 1994 Mar. 18
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Ce que l'on peut dire sur cette cassette, c'est qu'elle est faite des divers, parlant toujours des Inkotanyi d'une part pour dire des Tutsi (puisqu'ils utilisent le mot Inkotanyi même pour les militaires Burundais, dits majoritairement Tutsis) et d'autres parts pour dire le FPR. Elle contient entre autre un communiqué émanant de le présidence de la République, communiqué qui condamnait cet assassinat des 5 personnes agents de l'usine à thé de Cyohoha Rucyeri.
Air Date: 1994 Mar. 18
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
La face A contient les commentaires sur sécurité le pays en général et dans la ville de Kigali en particulier. Ches commentaires sont faits par les journalistes, Noël et Nkomati. Il contient aussi les interviews, d'abord celui de Monsieur Munyanganizi, le Directeur de l'Electogaz à l'epoque et celui de Mme Gaudence Nyirahabimana, présidente du parti MFBP et c'était elle qui avait été nommée par ce parti pour le représenter dans l'Assemblé Nationale de Transition à base élargie. L'interview était cntrée sur la crise politique que traversait le pays.
La face B: La suite de l'interview de Mme Gaudence Nyirahabimana et diverse.
Air Date: 1994 Mar. 18-19
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Le contenu de la face A de la cassette montre que les événements sur celle-ci ont bel et bien eu lieu sours un climat tendu entre le parti MRND et l'opposition. Ce climat résultait du fait que les partis politiques s'etaient divisaient en blanches "powers" et "modérés." Chaque blanche voulant alor présenter ses députés dans l'Assemblé de transition à base élargie. Et en plus les blanches "power" avaient tendance à épouser l'idéologie du MRND. C'est dans ce sense que Monsieur Twagiramungu, en tant que Premier ministre dans ce gouvernement de transition à base élargie, a annoncé la formation du gouvernement avec les ministres que la RTLM, à travers de ses journalistes, notamment Nkomati, ont critiqué négativement.
Elle contient également les interviews des chefs de l'Electrogaz, qui répondaient à des diverses questions concernant la panne de l'électricité et le manque d'eau dans le pays en général et dans la ville de Kigali en particulier. Cette panne était due à la destruction du central de Ntaruka.
La face B contient les interviews des déplacés de guerre de Byumba. Ils parlaient de leur état de santé dans ce camp de Nyacyonga. Les journalistes, Gahigi et Nkomati font des commentaires sur la formation du nouveau gouvernement qui avait été annoncé par Faustin Twagiramungu.
Air Date: 1994 Mar. 19
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
RTLM radio says that Faustin Twagiramungu wants to take the power by force and hand it over to the RPF.
Gahigi, journalist on RTLM, comments on political parties.
Air Date: 1994 Mar. 21
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Broadcasts on RPF, Twagiramungu, Kanyarengwe, Uwiringiyimana, Kavamahanga, Nzamurambaho, political parties and the requirements of RPF in Arusha peace agreements.
A football match between MDR-parmehutu and RPF (prepared by Musabire Leon from JDR Power).
Air Date: 1994 Mar. 21
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Face A: Animation de Hitimana Noël, Bemeriki Valérie.
Face B: Animation de Bemeriki Valérie, Noël et Gahigi Gaspard.
Air Date: 1994 Mar. 21
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Face A: Animation de Philippe Mbilizi, Ruggiu Géorge, Emmanuel Rucogoza et Habimana Kantano.
Face B: Animation de Philippe Mbilizi Mulonda, Habimana Kantano et Emmanuel Rucogoza.
Air Date: 1994 Mar. 21
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Face A: Kantano Habimana et Gahigi Gaspard.
Face B: Vierge.
Air Date: 1994 Mar. 22
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Face A: Animation de Habimana Kantano et un autre journaliste non autrement identifié.
Face B: Animation de Gahigi Gaspard et Habimana Kantano.
Air Date: 1994 Mar. 23
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Animation de Noël Hitimana, Habimana Kantano, Philippe Mbilizi.
Animation de Bemeriki, Noël Hitimana, Kantano Habimana, Philippe Mbilizi et George Ruggiu.
Air Date: 1994 Mar. 23
Producer: RTLM and Radio Rwanda
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Journalistes: Kantano, Noel, Ruggiu, Valérie, Mbirizi.
Side A:
Les journalistes Valérie Nemeyiki, Georges Ruggiu interviewés par Mbirizi Philippe sur l'attitude des occidentau à propos du problème du Rwanda et du Burundi, sur la transition et sur les perspectives du Burundi.
Communiqués
Commentaire sur le Burundi
Commentaire sur Museveni
Radio Rwanda:
Le flash d'informations en Kinyarwanda et en Français
RTLM:
Journaliste: Valérie Bemeyiki
Commentaires sur les sujets qui vont être abordés sur RTLM ce jour là
Salutations à certains auditeurs de RTLM
Face B:
Communiqué
Commentaire sur la fermeture de la brasserie BRALIRWA de Gisenyi à cause de la grève de ses employés.
Commentaire sur la radio Muhabura du FPR qui a condamné le CDR, disant qu'il ne peut pas participer dans les institutions de la transition
Commentaire sur les journalistes belges Colette Braeckman du journal Le Soir et Marie France Cross du journal la Libre Belgique
Informations sur la tentative de Coup d'Etat au Burundi
Air Date: 1994 Mar. 25
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Face A:
Commentaire sur la tentative du Coup d'Etat au Burundi et sur le néocolonialisme occidental.
Commentaire sur le FPR qui aurait appellé les habitants de la zone tampon à faire une manifestation pour que les institutions de transition soient rapidement mis en place et sur la méchanceté du FPR en général.
Lecture de la lettre des membres du parti MRND de la commune Tumba. Commentaires
Commentaire sur l'insécurité en commune Giciye
Face B:
Commentaire sur ce que la radio BBC a diffusé le 1994 Mar. 21 à 17h 30' sur le recrutement des jeunes Rwandais par le FPR qu'il éparpille dans tous les coins du Rwanda, et sur ce que la mêmo radio a diffusé le 1994 Mar. 24 à 6h 41' à propos de la suspension de l'aide belge au Rwanda.
Un autre journaliste:
Commentaire sur le communiqué de Madame le Premier Ministre Uwiringiyimana Agathe appelant les députés et les ministres de la transition à base élargie à venir preter serment ce jour là le 1994 Mar. 25 à 8h30'.
Commentaires sur le Burundi, sur la suspension de l'aide belge
Déclaration du parti PDI à propos de ses représentants dans les institutions de transition à base élargie
La chanson "Impuruza" de Bikindi.
Commentaire sur les cérémonies de prestation de serment évoqués ce-haut.
Communiqués
Air Date: 1994 Mar. 24
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Face A:
Journaliste: Valérie Bemeriki
Commentaires sur le conseil du gouvernement antérieurement programmé et qui a été annulé sur le Premier Ministre Madame Uqiringiyimana Agathe et sur la prestation de serment prévue pour ce jour à 15 h.
Commentaire sur le procès intenté contre Twagiramungu par certains députés du MDR à qui il aurait interdit de participer dans les institutions de transition à base élargie et sur ces institutions en général.
Lecture d'une lettre d'un membre du parti PDC à propos de ces mêmes institutions. Commentaires.
Reportage de Georges Ruggiu en français au retour des lieux où devait avoir lieu la prestation de serment.
Face BL
Suite du reportage de Ruggiu. Interview de Barayagwiza sur ce blocage.
Commentaires de Valérie sur les personnes qui avaient été invitées à ces cérémonies.
Reportage de Nkomati Emmanuel sur cette cérémonie en kinyarwanda.
Commentaires de Valérie et Nkomati
Air Date: 1994 Mar. 25
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Side A:
Noel's comments on the situation in HYPOTHEQUE Secondary School.
Noel's criticism on rich businessmen who didn't contribute to reward Rayons Sport Club.
Noel's comments on RPF's absence to come to the ceremony of taking the oath
Noel accuses Kagame of being responsible for the lives of youth who are dying on the battlefield
Ruggiu's report of the participants to the failed ceremony of the establishment of transtiional institutions.
Ruggiu's comments on Arusah agreement.
Side B: Ruggiu's comments on Rwanda's economical and political problems
Ruggiu's comments on RPF's plans: preparation of a war
Communiqué on the establishment of the transitions institutions with or without the participation of RPF.
Interview of Jean Bosco Barayagwiza on the political blockade.
Broadcast on AIDS, on the thalidomide medicine.
Nkomati's comments on the failed ceremony of the day before: formation of the Extended Transitional Government and taking the oath for the Members of Parliament.
Air Date: 1994 Mar. 29-30
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Face A:
Interview du Procureur général de la Cour de Cassation Mbarushimana Bonaventure par Gagigi Gaspard à propose du refus de Nzamurambaho de répondre à la convocation lui adressée dans le cadre des enquêtes sur l'assassinat de Félicien Gatabazi.
Commentaires sur ce sujet et sur Nzamurambaho en général.
Interview de Nkurunziza Ananie par Gahigi Gaspard sur les problèmes de la famine dans la préfecture de Gikongoro, sur les problèmes politiques y causés par le même Nzamurambaho, sur l'assassinat de Gatabazi . . .
Face B:
Hymne national
Journaliste: Hitimana Noèl
Commentaire sur la convocation que lui a adressée la parquet
Un autre journaliste:
Commentaires sur la manifestation des étudiantes de la Faculté de Droit, à propos d'un chauffeur de l'ONATRACOM, Munyagasiza Fidèle.
Commentaire sur les explications que vient de lui donner chauffeur.
Commentaire sur la déclaration No. 20 de la communauté des étudiants Rwandais en Belguique.
Commentaire à propose des directeurs de écoles qui ne permettent pas à leurs élèves d'écouter la RTLM.
Commentaires divers.
Commentaire sur le fait que la CDR s'apprête à attaquer le Premier Ministre Uwiringiyimana Agathe parce qu'elle l'aurait accusée injustement de génocide et sur la lettre que le MDR power a adressée au même Premier Ministre le 1994 Mar. 28 disant que c'est Kamali qui doit être député du MDR pour la préfecture de Gisenyi dans l'Assemblée Nationale de transition.
Commentaires sur le problèmes des Tutsi de la commune Kanzenze.
Air Date: 1994 Mar. 30
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Mar. 30
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
An unidentified journalist states that the CDR should be allowed to participate in the transitional government. Ruggiu then reports that the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF)'s Radio Muhabura is waging a war of disinformation and blaming the CDR and MDR for crimes committed in the demilitarized zone. Rucogoza follows with a report about the student demonstrations at the Faculty of Law in Kigali. He interviews two students, Viateur Kamali and Félix Aimable Mujyambere who deny the notion that the demonstrations have a political background. Rucogoza then interviews Dr. Jean Gakwaya, Dean of the Faculty of Law at Kigali, who is of the opinion that the crisis at the university is linked to the current political and socio-economic troubles prevalent throughout Rwanda. Ruggiu then implies that the Belgians are "blackmailing" Rwanda. A conversation between Ruggiu and Gahigi follows. They discuss the RPF's "infiltration" plots, the fact that the "enemy is known" and the RPF's unwillingness to share power. Their conversation is interspersed with reports that a certain Jean Ndamiye's house is under attack in Kiyovu. Mr. Katumba's death is mentioned as well as an incident that took place in Karago. At one point Ruggiu muses about why "some MRND and CDR militants are regularly attacked." Towards the end of the cassette Kantano comes on to report that Mr. Niyongira in Muyira apparently plotted against an MP Muhutu. Kantano hopes that the people of Muyira are listening. Rucogoza and Mbilizi end the tape with the following comments: 1) Should General Dallaire continue as commander of the UNAMIR? 2) the RPF has recruited 13 students out of Nyanza. 3) The RPF has no right to prevent the CDR from participation in the transitional parliament.
Air Date: 1994 Mar. 31
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Kantano begins the tape retracting an earlier statement alleging that Christophe Bazivamo is an "Inyenzi." He then targets Justin Niyongira and a number of "collaborators" including Balthazar Bazatoba, Silas Ruzinda and Conseiller Theobald Rutaganzwa. Niyongira in particular is accused of allowing members of the PSD and of his ethnic group of committing murder without having to face punishment. Mbilizi then interviews Stanislas Simbizi of the CDR who it is said has just "narrowly escaped" an attempt on his life. Simbizi accuses the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) of committing atrocities and of being unwilling to participate in a peaceful democratic process. Rucogoza then provides an eerie description of the "gloomy" atmosphere pervading Kigali city. Mbilizi follows with a list of students from Nyanza said to have formed the "Inziraguteba Brigade" with the intent of joining the RPF. Mbilizi then addresses the conflict between the CDR and the RPF about the CDR's participation in the Transitional National Assembly.
Air Date: 1994 Mar. 31
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Double-check air date. The tape appears to begin with a broadcast from the night of March 31, 1994. However, the tape apparently ends the following morning April 1, 1994.
Mbilizi begins the tape reading from a letter addressed to Prime Minister Uwilingiyimana from eleven Ministers in her Cabinet. The letter is a criticism of Uwilingiyimana and implies that she has inappropriate contact with the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF). Mbilizi then launches into a monologue about the difficulty of implementing the Arusha Accords and particularly the problems the RPF are creating by opposing the CDR's entry into the Transitional National Assembly. He also accuses the RPF of committing atrocities. Ruggiu follows with an interview of Gahigi. Among other things they touch on the true face of the RPF and its desire for power. Gahigi also predicts a "total war" should fighting break out again.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 01
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
The translator appears to have summarized parts of the tape (see record #14, end of transcript).
Bemeriki begins the tape with a communiqué from the Laurien Karumuhinzi, Secretary General of the Democratic Party. Karumuhinzi extends his party's support to the CDR in their fight to gain entry into the Transitional National Assembly. Hitimana follows with a long monologue in which he targets two men, Dr. Ngirabanyiginya and Dr. Iyamuremye, for responsibility in the death of Katumba, a member of the CDR. Hitimana also targets two employees of the Department of Taxes, Albert Niyotwilingiye and Immaculee Bamurange, for allegedly offering a reward to Katumba's killer. Hitimana implies that the Inkotanyi are the source of the murder. He ends the tape with an analysis of the major parties during which several party leaders are targeted as particularly inefficient or as having ties to the Inkotanyi. The MRND's woes are blamed on the war and the CDR is lauded as the only party with the population's interests at heart.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 01
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Again, as in Archive #189A, there are two sections (records 1 and 8) where the translator did not translate the text.
Nkomati begins the tape attacking the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) for their statements broadcasted on Radio Rwanda in which they criticize the government, intellectuals and journalists. He then proceeds to summarize the letter written by the Democratic Party in support of the CDR's participation in the Transitional National Assembly. Gahigi follows with an on-site report of a grenade attack directed against Thomas Kabonabake, editor of the newspaper "Echo des Milles Collines." Kabonabake explains that it is the second such attack and the he suspects his "Tutsi neighbors" and their accomplices. He also suggests that the Inkotanyi have informants among the Rwandan population who report back to the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) leaders staying at the CND.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 2
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 2
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 3
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 3
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 Apr. 3
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 ,au 28-29
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: Reporters San Frontières
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: [not available]
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: [not available]
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: [not available]
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: [not available]
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: [not available]
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: [not available]
No description available.
Air Date: [not available]
Producer: [not available]
Original Language: [not available]
No description available.
Air Date: 1994 June 3 and 11
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
Face A:
Animation de Bemeriki Valérie et de Nkurunziza Ananie.
Break of Arusha Agreement by RPF.
Interview of Kajuga J. Pierre addressing Byumba displaced population.
About Catholic bishops.
Ananie ethnic comments on Nayakakanda High Seminary.
Face B: Idem (almost inaudible).
Air Date: 1994 May 14
Producer: RTLM
Original Language: Kinyarwanda, French
No description available
Series contains digital files related to the RTLM audio cassettes. The Documents folder (389 files; 426 MB) includes transcripts, tape logs, and court documents related to the translation and transcription of the audio cassettes. Files are in .tiff format. The Audio folder (266 files; 11 folders; 6,791 MB) contains digital surrogates of many of the audio cassettes. Files are in MP3 format. The MP3 files are listed by their Exhibit number. A cross index between RTLM number and the Exhibit number is available in Box 719.
Digitized documents in TIFF format.
Audio files in MP3 format.
The Incarceration Zine Collection covers 1995 to 2007. Contents are almost exclusively produced by the South Chicago ABC Zine Distro publishing group, led by Anthony Rayson. A significant portion of this collection include essays by Rayson. The collection is predominately zines, most of which are written by Anarchists. Additional items are ABC Zine Distro catalogues and a few pieces of inmate art.
Most zines are original creations, though some pieces are reproduced texts by other authors. These works include Anarchist Morality by Peter Kroptokin, chapter 1 of Black Panther Party (Reconsidered) edited by Charles E. Jones, and The Diary of Bobby Sands.
Zines include republished pieces of famous inmates, including poetry and writings by Weather Underground member David Gilbert and political prisoners Mumia Abu-Jamal and Harold H. Thompson. Some pieces have an international focus, covering topics such as Vietnam, the Russian Revolution, and the El Mozote massacre. Domestic issues covered include race in the prison system, the resurgence of the Black Panther Party, revolutionary organizing in prison, Native American rights, and growth of the prison-industrial system.
Noted authors in this collection in Mumia Abu-Jamal, Sundiata Acoli, David Gilbert, Kevin "Rashid" Johnson, Dennis Kyne, Ashanti Alston Omowali, Anthony Rayson, Bobby Sands, Sean Swain, and Harold H. Thompson.
Acquired as part of the Human Rights Archive (Duke University).
Included are two prints of inmate artwork. One, by Kevin "Rashid" Johnson is a hand-drawn collage of Malcolm X. The other item, signed "RJC" features Mickey Mouse pointing at a sign which reads "Capitalism is a crime against humanity! Join the revolution now!"
International collection of picture postcards (6500 items, ca. 1900-1982), almost all of which date from 1920 or earlier. Arranged by country and filed in 28 albums. Almost all European countries are represented, and there are many rare postcards from Russia. (96-0135) (7 lf)
The addition to this collection (18000 items, from ca. 1900-1950) also is international in scope, but focuses on the United States. The collection comprises fifty, three-ring binders that hold picture postcards in pocketed mylar sleeves. About two-thirds of the cards show scenes in the United States, including all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico; state capitols; worlds fairs; and other tourist destinations. Thirteen of the fifty binders document Atlantic City, N.J., and are subdivided by the images shown, including boardwalks, beaches, and hotels. The rest of the collection comprises postcards from other countries, including Austria, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the Netherlands. Asia, Africa, Latin America, and North America are also represented. A small group of postcards depicts costumes from around the world. (00-422) (12 lf)
Formerly cataloged as the International Postcard Collection.
Collection consists largely of correspondence between historian Nell Irvin Painter and her parents (1969-2003), documenting various stages of their lives, travels, and Painter's scholarly career. Also includes writings by or about Nell Painter, including reviews of her work; copies and reviews of Dona Irvin's writings; documents related to Frank and Dona's education and careers; Frank irvin's diary (2000-2003); legal papers; and other items.
Photographs also form an important part of the collection. Along with papers and records, Frank and Dona Irvin kept early photos and tintypes (circa 1890s-1910s) of African Americans in Victoria, Texas; together, these materials speak to their early life near Houston, and document aspects of African American history in that area. There are also family photographs from later decades (1930s-1980s).
For preservation purposes, original audiovisual media are closed to use; copies may be available on request.
Acquired as part of the John Hope Franklin Research Center for African and African American History and Culture.
Frank's Plaques and Certificates.
Real Estate and Title Documents, [1960-1988]
Includes letters to Dona from Frank.
Featuring interview with Frank and Dona Irvin.
Includes records from Prairie View College, Houston College for Negroes (now Texas Southern), and UCB.
The narrative by George Ruble Woolfolk is the story of the only state-supported Negro college in Texas between 1878 and 1946.
Includes letters from Nell Irvin Painter to her parents.
Includes articles and publicity about Sojourner Truth, a Life, a Symbol
Jim Crow at Harvard, 1923
Nell Irvin Painter talks about her book Sojourner Truth: A Life, A Symbol
Includes photographs from Nell and Glenn's wedding and the OBU rally at Harvard.
Includes Nell Irvin Painter's high school photographs, photographs from trip to Quebec City, 2001, and portraits and tintypes taken in Victoria, Texas, ca. 1890s-1900s.
Includes black-and-white photos, [1930s]-[1980s]
Includes e-mail messages from Nell Irvin Painter to her parents.
Includes Nell Irvin Painter's letters to her parents.
Includes pictures from Crossroads Africa summer in Nigeria.
Largely correspondence between Nell Irvin Painter and her parents, ranging from the 1960s to 2000s. Includes email correspondence.
Includes planning materials for Frank Irvin's 85th birthday party and materials from memorial services, including Dona Irvin's memorial service.
Includes Frank Irvin's Certificate of Appreciation for 25 years of service from the Univerisity of California.
Includes photocopies of Frank and Dona Irvin's marriage certificate, tax records, and talent release forms.
Addition (2016-0112) contains materials transferred from the Nell Irvin Painter papers. Contains family photographs primarily from the 1990s and a calendar in which Dona and Frank Irvin appeared.
Month of April features a portrait of Dona and Frank Irvin.
This collection contains Renée Jacobs' archive of her project Slow Burn: A Photodocument of Centralia, Pennslyvania. Slow Burn, first published in 1986 by University of Pennsylvania Press, chronicles Centralia’s demise from an underground coal mine fire and depicts a singular epic event in Pennsylvania history, representing the confluence of environmental, scientific, bureaucratic, and emotional tragedies. As an award winning photojournalist, Jacobs moved into a house in Centralia’s impact zone in 1983 to document, in photographs and interviews, the end stages of the tiny anthracite coal town’s unsuccessful fight to resolve the intractable problems that began with the mine fire in 1962 and culminated in the razing of the town by the federal government.
Photographer Shelby Lee Adams has written of the project stating:
"Where once there was familiarity with open doors and trusting hearts, in a community that could be your home anywhere in America, an invisible cancer grew. It’s the unseen, slow-moving nature of this underground burning that took Centralia apart. The human spirit doesn’t want to believe, see, or hear what can destroy our sanctified special places in the world. Renée Jacobs faithfully and compassionately documents in pictures and words the confusion, uncertainty, and fighting spirit of Centralia’s residents—and the painful destruction and relocation of the residents of this little Pennsylvania town. Slow Burn is a compelling story about—and for—all of us.”
The archive consist of more than 200 rolls of 35mm black and white film, the accompanying contact sheets, more than 1,000 silver gelatin work prints, contemporaneous news articles, oral history interviews and vintage exhibition prints. Additionally, the archives include maquettes for the original 1986 book and the 2010 re-issue, as well as prints with printer’s notations.
Loose negatives, some with contact strips included. One set includes a caption re: Centralia Demolition.
Missing pages 40, 62, 101, 117-118, 135
Materials for book signings, readings, and other events promoting the publication of Slow Burn.
[town landscape and houses with smoke in front]
[Centralia Mine Fire Is Our Future sign with girl]
[Smoke coming out of pipe with a chain fence around it and houses in background]
[Woman smiling and hugging boy]
[Two men with hardhats talk with white smoke in the background]
[Five boys in baseball uniforms sit on the steps in front of a house]
[Man sits eating an apple in an office]
[Silhouettes of signs in the night with a light behind and snow on the ground]
[Man leaving room in background with Giangarlo Scientific Co. box in foreground]
[Pipe with chain fence around it emitting smoke with the sky and clouds in the background]
[Elderly woman looking at photograph of two women]
[Smiling baby in stroller with fence and sign in background]
[Night picture of empty road with signs and smoke in the background]
[Man in background watches as someone tests the sink with a device in a house]
[Woman in white sweater points at elderly woman in foreground in a building with people talking in the background]
[Man sitting in armchair with various portraits on the wall, a doll house, and an empty armchair]
[Chevrolet car with license plate "We Dig Coal"]
[Man in mirror testing a bedroom with device]
[Woman lying in bed and woman holding a notebook look at man who's holding something in his left hand]
[Mother holding child in front of couch, as man with device stands in the right background]
[Bride walks in white with flowers in her hand past a wall. A sign reads "Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965"]
[Woman stands with arm raised wearing shirt saying "The Hottest Town in Penna."]
[Girl in dress and hat eats a lollipop with dolls on the floor around her]
[Man in suit measures length of room with two boys lying on the couch]
[Woman sits on rug with a cardboard box in front of her and an inflatable crocodile in a trashbag]
[Woman sits on rug in dark room staring out the window, with a reflection of her in the background]
[Two houses; a person is entering the white house, the black house has a "Notice No Trespassing" sign on it]
[Elderly woman sits on couch looking into camera as a man moves items of of the house]
[Bulldozer destroys house]
[Two men stare down at the wreckage and debris of a home]
Includes color prints and negatives from Liston's visit, circa 1987.
The collection consists of Japanese books, periodicals and other printed materials relating to the Japanese student movement of the 1960s and later. The materials derive from the first confrontations of 1960 provoked by the Anpo treaty, through the protest movement's years of crisis and decay in the 1970s, but there are more recent materials as well. Original order of groupings arranged by format has been retained; within groupings, materials are in date order with a few exceptions. Items of interest include radical left-wing student newspapers, large flyers and smaller protest handouts, special issues from mainstream media outlets, clippings, and North Korean and former Soviet Union Communist propaganda. Notably, the collection includes a full 12-month run of the Japanese magazine, Kisetsu. Protest movement ephemera also includes original writings, chiefly mimeographed essays and manuscript submissions for publication. The collection is strong in material relating to the BUND movement (Kyôsan Shugisha Dômei), the rise of Zengakuren radicalism, and the birth of the Japanese Red Army Faction (Sekigun-Ha). Materials and this collection guide are in the Japanese language. Romanized titles are given for books and serials.
Part of the collection's original printed material was featured in the landmark "1960s Graphism" exhibit curated by the Tokyo Printing Museum (Insatsu Hakubutsukan) in 2002. Other visual material of interest is available in the dedicated issues of Asahi Graph and Shisô included in the collection.
The collection is part of a larger gift pertaining to the radicalization of the student movement in Japan, including books, a video, and other items which are available as part of the holdings of the East Asian Collection in Duke University's Perkins Library.
緊急増刊
Tawara Kaoru
Tawara Kaoru
Tawara Kaoru
Tawara Kaoru
Tawara Kaoru
社会党・社青同解放派
Irregular periodical.
南部地区解放戦線機関誌
社会主義学生同盟関西地方
学生会館管理運営委員会
通卷 263
Photo document of Zenkyōtō demo.
政治理論誌
政治理論誌
高瀨勇
廣松涉編訳
三上治(みかみ おさむ)
劫(こう）"perpetual/lasting."
季刊誌
季刊誌
理論機関誌
理論機関誌
[解放]論文集
上旬
下旬
合併号
Semimonthly.
Semimonthly.
平田清明論文集
新左翼の[教祖]岩田宏批判
機関誌
Irregular serial.
Photo document of 全学共闘
三上治責任 編集
三上治責任 編集
三上治責任 編集
三上治責任 編集
三上治責任 編集
叛逆への招待/逆光の思想
ベトナム問題緊急特集
連合赤軍全調査
連合赤軍事件
連絡先戦旗社
破防法体制突破!
連絡先戦旗社
連絡先立花薫/戦旗社
七・一七政治集会臨時号
理論機関誌
共産主義者同盟政治機関誌
革命的共産主義者同盟機関誌
前衛党建設特集号
歴史的連続の壁を突き破れ!
緊急特報 爆発する大学
争乱の大学・東大紛争から安保へ
Japan/islands undergraduate information magazine.
共産主義者同盟理論機関誌
第9回大会報告/共産主義者同盟理論機関誌
共産主義者同盟理論機関誌
1号 - 3号
日本共産労働党理論機関誌
政治理論機関誌
政治理論機関誌.
政治理論機関誌.
政治理論機関誌.
政治理論機関誌.
政治理論機関誌総集
第一次 網領草案
0号 to 12号編集
新左翼理論20年史
70年代演劇の位相
新左翼は終ったか
転換期-新左翼名派はかく闘う
赤軍・その軌跡
スチューデントパワ全学連の徹底的分解
10月決戦の戦術と戦略
論文特集
報道・解説・評論
報道・解説・評論.
報道・解説・評論.
流動する国際情勢と平和共存
ロシヤ革命
世界資本主義の現段階
維新と現代
ヨーロッパ・マルクス主義
世界史の新展開
マルクス主義哲学と構造主義
第三世界
緊急特集 - チェコそしてフランス
70年闘争2/主体の状況と展望
70年闘争3/現代イデオロギーの争点
大学変革と東大闘争
現代への挑戦/学園闘争その結果と展望
大学革新論の飛躍のために
共同体・市民社会・社会主義
ピース缶爆弾・日石土田邸事件事件
廢刊号上
共産主義者同盟再建準備委員会
再建準備委員会
反革命軍軍事処点沖縄/解放革命
吉本隆明講演集刊行委員会
comments(赤軍派日本委員会)
国際反戦デ-/国際報復戦貫徹せよ!
No. 14=15 12月合併号 機関誌
No. 17=18 3月 機関誌
No. 19=20 8月 機関誌
No. 21=22 7月 機関誌
第八号 季刊
第九号 季刊
第十六号 季刊
第十七号 季刊
第十八号 季刊
別冊
第二十号 季刊
9月号 通巻93号
10月号 通巻94号
11月号 通巻95号
7月号
8月号
1月特大号
2月号
3月号
4月号
5月号
6月号
7月号
8月号
9月号
10月号
11月号
12月号
1月号 通巻109号
2月号 通巻110号
3月号 通巻111号
4月号 通巻112号
5月号 通巻113号
7月号 通巻115号
9月号 通巻117号
1月号 通巻133号
2月号 通巻134号
7月号 通巻151号
10月号 通巻154号
2月号 通巻158号
9月号 通巻165号
Chiefly mimeograph newsletters, serials, memoranda, large flyers, protest movement ephemera, printed essays, and other materials from grassroots organizations and various individuals. There are also a few handwritten items.
マルクス主義青年労働者同盟 .
早稲田大学教育学部 .
マルクス主義学生同盟 .
全学連再建 準備会.
日本共産主義青年同盟(準).
70年保安・情勢の特徴と我々の任務.
青山学院大学支部.
三多摩地区委員会.
三多摩地区委員会.
三多摩地区委員会.
明大生田.
共産主義者同盟再建準備委員会.
共産主義者同盟再建準備委員会.
共産主義者同盟再建準備委員会.
共産主義者同盟再建準備委員会.
Annotated.
訓案・憲見書
同盟政治局.
中央委員.
青山学院大学社会主義学生同盟.
東外大社会主義学生同盟.
Original order and housing retained.
毎日新聞.
ソ連共産党機関紙.
毎日新聞.
アカハタ.
アカハタ.
アカハタ.
朝日新聞.
アカハタ.
毎日新聞.
アカハタ.
中央公論.
中央公論.
世界.
(日本語版) 第8 (serial, 1 issue, illustrated)
Set of articles originally published by the Soviet embassy in Tokyo. Topics relate to Soviet and Chinese Communist parties and their activities, and there are a few articles on Marx and Lenin.
「コムニスト」1963 /11月号論文.
政治機関紙.
第9号
第10号
No. 2.
号外.
裁判斗争支援委員会.
特別号.
二・四不発ゼネストと二・四八の展望
大薩摩破防法裁判斗争支援委
遠くまで行くんだ編集委員会
第四インターナショナル.
沖縄返還要求国民大会連絡会議
けやき反戦行動委員会.
反戦青年委員会.
佐藤首相の官邸粉砕.
28日3時新橋駅総結集.
羽田統一弁護団結成.
5・15三里塚-沖縄闘争実行委員会準備会
京都大学全学共闘会議.
三里塚・沖縄闘争実行委員会
全国の総叛乱しを!!
Memo.
鉄の戦線派.
青山学院大学社会主義学生同盟.
神奈川地区共闘.
No. 7
No. 8 ・9.
Anti アンポ推進委員会 (仮称)
東外大社会主義学生同盟 June
東外大社会主義学生同盟.
Note: 東外大社会主義学生同盟.
Note: スターリンの亡霊の復活.
KJB= 日本共産主義青年同.
その外部的・内部的要因.
世界革命の現過程としての七O年闘争.
基調報告.
号外.
機関誌
同盟教育大学支部/機関誌
同盟教育大学支部/機関誌
機関誌
8/17-19 於広島
都学連再建大会を斗う大会へ!!
商学部総実行委員会.
東京大学教養部学生自治会 .
東京大学中央委員会.
横浜市立大学大管制反対実行委員会
東京都学生委員会書記局
東京都学生委員会書記局
立教大学支部機関誌.
東京都委員会.
慶應義塾大学支部機関誌.
青年学生運動革新革会議委員会
八・五学生平和集会対案.
機関誌.
機関誌.
早大学生委員会
都委員会.
マルクス主義学生同盟(中核派)
革命記念集会への学習.
法大支部平和グループ
共産主義青年同盟都委員会.
社会主義革新準備会
慶應義塾大学支部.
東京都自治会代表者会議への.
プログラム.
日本版脱落論文.
Clippings or partial issues taken from one newspaper. Volume numbers for each issue are given. Arranged in date order.
任重彬=梶井基次郞 (Kajii Motojirō)
大統領選挙…4/27に決まる
青年論壇 (韓社研)
金総理が強弁
在日韓国青年学生の手記
青年論壇: 情報政治に強い怒り: 金大中氏事件に接して
朝鮮統一問題資料集 - 朝鮮問題理解の原点 (明大教授)
朝鮮統一問題資料史 (日本アムネステイ理事長)
主張: 朝鮮民族の悲観と国連.
反朴デモ -韓国学生たち/ソウル法大 (photo)
南北政府の覚書
主張- 韓国の民主化 対話再開
主張 南北共同声明を支持
日本大使館に波状デモ
主張 - 維新粉砕闘争の高まり
外国特派員も閉じ込め - 駐韓日本記者に照準
地下で改憲運動継続 - 維新体制
朴政権の強権発動は裏目に: 1・8 緊急処置
朴政権各地演出
米日が露骨なテコ入れ: [緊急処置]下の朴政権に
民民統が集会とデモ : [4・19革命]14週年紀念
韓国言論界が朴政権と対決
朴政権支える日本に照準
朴政権に強い抗義 : 京都総会が韓国決議案を採択
民主勢力の壊滅ねらう朴政権 -民青学連事件で起訴
破局に向う朴政権
民青学連事件で軍裁判決
在日同胞反朴強化 : 朴大統領狙撃に思う
時論 : 李栄根一派の反民族策動を俳す
海外同胞運動の意義 : 日本の政策
時論 :日本[左派]猿まね : 対日隷属の象徴的現象
民族統一戦線結成: 南北共同声明履行
改憲運動エスカレート
時論: 国連朝鮮問題討議ひかえて
韓日関係修復の動き フォード歴訪契機に
主張 - 韓日関係新たな展開 -三木新政権誕生に際して
新年号
青年論壇 : 激しく民主化を希求
時論 : 反民俗分子のたわ言: 朝日ジャーナルの反論を読で
青年論壇: 主体的民族史開拓 : 日帝支配下で光明放つ
時論 : 東亜日記記者の手記を読んで
誰のために鐘は鳴る
書評 - [夜の沈黙に自由の鐘] - 民主化運動
高麗大を強制閉鎖
第200号 - 読者への感謝
宣言・網領・談話文・呼訴文
カンボジア・ベトナム解放にあわて
青年論壇: ベトナム解放とわれわれ
書評: [日本人と韓国人] 複雑な韓日関係解明.
[良心宣言] 獄中から
統革党 - 記念講演会
金大中氏らに重刑求刑
国連と祖国祖国統一 上
国連と祖国祖国統一 中
国連と祖国祖国統一 下
現代版奴隷商人の朴正煕 : 隷属的軌道修正して
民主救国宣言を発表:金大中氏ら十二名連名で内外に強い反響
青年論壇: 現代版奴隷商人の朴正煕
金芝河氏の公判開かる
朴独裁打倒決意
金芝河氏4回公判, 金芝河氏5回公判
金芝河氏5回公判
民主救国宣言 - 8・9回公判
祖国統一民民主義戦線
統一革命党機関誌
青年論壇: 反共から連共への転換を
[青脈]日帝による民族語抹殺策動
朴正煕の不正を満天下に告発する!
金大中氏ら獄中断食
朴政権崩壊の寸前に
支持, 共感の声強まる
米軍徹退・救国方案実現訴える
統一革命党在日韓国人連帯委員会
救国憲章署名運動
' Korean Revolution and Reunification'
統革党中央委が全主衆にアピール
朴政権の片棒 かつぐ李哲承の反動的役割
愛国主義の再吟味 下
ソウル大, 梨花大で闘争続く
Whole issues of newspapers or clippings. Articles of individual interest are listed below, arranged in chronological order within each of their publication's title.
ベトナム侵略阻止, 公共料金値上反対, 一時金実力獲得!
防衛庁・政府中枢権力を攻撃.
安保弟一波: 全国戦争騒乱罪をはねのける.
70年安保粉砕 - 革命的戦闘部隊-共産主義青年同盟結成準備会-.
安保粉砕/ 3・30三里塚.
共産主義青年同盟政治集会.
侵 略, 抑圧, 反に抗し, 安保NATO粉砕.
獄中通信: 安田戦の継承を確認.
医学連五百デモ : 国会・文部省・厚生省に抗議.
佐藤訪米阻止.
ロジャ-ズ(米国務長官) 来日阻止.
世界革命と階級過渡期闘争.
共産主義青年同盟政治集会.
学園闘争勝利へ万余の昂陽!
世界党建設の礎. 八月弟二回国際会議かちとれ.
同盟の党形成 - 階級形成の到達点.
7・29 ロジャ-ズ来日阻止.
8 ・4 大学立法 粉砕緊急闘争 : 三千のデモ敢行 .
共産主義青年同盟政治局.
獄中通信.
10月安保決戦への飛躍台.
佐藤帝国主義政府打倒.
獄中通信.
ベトナム反戦・安保粉砕・沖縄闘争勝利・佐藤訪米阻止.
諸党派の分解: 人民戦線左派 - ゲリラ戦派への.
10・10明治公園に十万結集.
神田へ進撃市街戦を展開.
分派闘争通し高揚するアメリカ.
日米琉の安保闘争で粉砕せよ.
軍団建設で反戦全共闘の再編を.
小西を! 弟二波錬馬基地拠去へ全国行動委創出/恒常的叛軍闘争.
七0年代世界革命戦争への飛躍[六月]へ!
六月へ総進撃.
松本礼二[副議長]除名.
腐敗分子=[情況][叛旗]派を放逐.
七月全国反帝戰線結成.
社学同・共青同全国合宿 - 全国反帝戦線.
7・7盧溝橋33周年に六千- ロジャーズ訪日阻止.
さらぎ/久保井両同志先頭に出廷.
七0年代権力闘争進撃へ火蓋を!
六回大会=旧マル戦的危機論.
マルクス革命論の本質論的解明.
防衛庁-全国基地解体-叛軍弟一波に決起.
10・8羽田3周年に万余の結集.
10・16政治集会基調報告- 混迷,分解する階級戦争の再編.
機動隊の壁を突破-防衛庁攻撃を貫徹.
現代無政府社主義=赤軍派へ党派闘争の鉄槌へ.
12・7AIF総決起集会新潟現地へ.
革命的マルクス・レーニン主義復権.
反同盟活動 除名者: さらぎ徳二
武装蜂起を組織するために・召還主義者との闘い.
合法主義者 - 日向一派を容赦なく殲滅.
現代帝国主義分析: 方法論の諸反省.
国際主義と非公然の党 ・正規軍建設.
スターリン主義解体: 右翼合同反対派の雑炊学批判.
沖縄闘争: 日比谷へ労学四千が結集.
日向体系破産の根拠: 方法論批判.
宇野方法論の解体: 宇野整理主義=時空超越.
三里塚弟一次収用.
沖縄現地弟三波スト報告.
八派共闘再編止揚に邁進.
5・13沖縄討論集会.
軍事空港開港・農民殺し政策に正義の鉄槌下す.
70年代勞働運動と権力闘争
勞評 - ソビエト運動をアジア的運動組合再編に抗して.
大衆暴力の世界性を世界革命へ.
階級的勞働運動の組織的構築 : 都織労働者評議会結成.
革命論構築のための方法論的諸前提. 上
世界同時革命の戦略論的構造. 下
4.19 新入生歓迎集会.
沖縄・三里塚闘争と学生戦線の任務: 上 社会主義学生都同盟全協議会.
三里塚鉄塔建設報告 .
権力闘争の時代の陣型構築. 松本礼二.
相模原闘争報告.
保守派人民運動の性格.
マルクス主義世界観.
翼賛政治の後尾.
秋期闘争: 反帝・救国・社会主義運動.
党名変更: 共産主義者同盟(RG).
再びマルクス・レーニン主義 - 党組織の承継発展.
連合赤軍の闘争と資本家階級-諸党派 - 知識人の対応.
蜂起革命戦争の 後方.
過渡期世界の国際主義で国益論・民族排外主義を粉砕.
防衛庁新宿地連強襲.
蜂起戦争派の飛躍克ちとれ
自衛隊沖縄派兵粉砕.
反革命キヤンぺ-ン.
ベトナム人民の大進撃 -自衛隊沖縄派兵を葬り去れ.
"若疑シク覚候ハバ我等ノ所業終候処ヲ爾等眼ヲ開テ看ヨ".
党-軍-統一戦線の陣型を強化せよ!
三上治 日本革命思想.
神津陽 当世知識層の政治思想批判.
日帝の泥沼的政治 - 社会再編粉砕.
5・13沖縄討論集会.
自衛隊立川基地本進駐阻止 / !6・11砂川へ .
日流一体化粉砕・6-11立川基地包囲制圧大行動.
砂川現地で一万二千の労学大集会.
沖縄戦後史画す2・4ゼネスト.
全学連中央委27,28日大学・沖縄闘争.
北小路を都議会へ.
杉並選挙闘争の総括.
全大学バリケード暴挙粉砕.
29学生, 30時間の激闘. 砦内外呼応し機動隊痛撃.
反帝・反スターリン主義の旗の下-沖縄奪還,安保粉砕・日帝打倒.
七〇年闘争の総路線を提起.
全土で沖縄奪還の火の手:コザ暴動, 国頭, 毒ガス全軍労に続き.
12・6石橋せん滅に続け/ 十二月.三里塚決戦に全国結集.
[動労千葉][町田] 決戦勝利.
協力の具体的な組織化. 結党の疑問に答える.
統一のなかで勝利の展望 .
学生運動新たな高揚めざして.
日米の侵略的軍事同盟の打破.
共同行動11月佐藤訪米阻止.
10・31国鉄ストを基軸 ・拠点政治スト.
いいだ書記長による大会討論の集約発言.
4月闘争の大衆的爆発.
米軍隊内部の反戦・反軍闘争.
安保=日米共同声明路線粉砕.
安保厳戒体制を突破せよ.
差別撤廃闘争の方向.
革命党建設にむかって.
三里塚農民と生産 - 生活 - 闘争.
早大学館死守戦 - 愛知訪米阻止闘争 - 全国全革闘結.成
撤点政治スト.
70年代前衛党創出へ.
平和と社会主義 改題
全国労スト - 三里塚総結起 - 統社同政治集会.
国際 - アジア反帝闘争.
三里塚闘争.
全国各地から1万名参加.
レーニン主義の網領 /中核派への公開状.
愛知訪米阻止・70年安保粉砕.
工場から反乱, 政治的頂点を震憾, ゼネスト怒濤の進撃!!
連合戦線を構築せよ
学内問題特集号.
良識と反良識との葛藤に感銘 .
反戦派労働運動の到達点とその課題.
学生運動研究会会員.
党派間政治の矮小を拒否.
8・10・15日実質上, 二月結審粉砕す.
朝霞事件・一一・一Oゼネストの波紋 .
吉本隆明をめぐる思念・匿名の裸での自立と連帯.
The collection features 63 letters, dated 1800-1822 and undated. Topics include progress of various vaccination programs, at home and abroad, as well as his recognition in Parliament and the Royal Jennerian Society; impact of illness in local families; preparations for war, which he opposes; an inscription for his brother's tombstone; gifts and food sent to family and friends; illness among his family members; comments on various printing jobs; settling of accounts, lending money, and dealing with unfavorable tenants and farm managers; fossil collecting; requests for positions on behalf of others and for the return a prisoner of war who is a relation; medical cases and consultations; and his appointment as physician extraordinary to George IV. Included are letters to Dr. [Thomas] Pruen; Charles Henry Parry; James Smith (1771-1841); Dr. S.B. LaBatt; and to Nigel Kingscote. Many items are copies of family letters, they were probably made during the life of Jenner's nephew, William Davies, and contain annotations by him. In addition to the letters, there are a few miscellaneous papers, including poems, a prescription and a recipe, and a receipt for the Royal Jennerian Society. There are four holograph prescriptions and two recipes (1807-1821), four with initials "E.J.," mounted and bound in a volume with an engraved portrait of Jenner. Collection also includes a manuscript diary (188 pages) maintained by Jenner in 1811 and the Fall of 1812, primarily containing notes on his patients and their treatments for various illnesses, from syphilis to gout to heart ailments (including prescriptions) along with records of many vaccinations. There is a note of receipt of a letter (1812 Sept 12) from Dr. Alex Crichton stating that vaccination flourished throughout the Russian Empire. Also contains reports on the dissection of organs from a cow, horse, and sheep, along with two sets of notations regarding diabetes, and one on "pulmonary affections." There are occasional notes with weather observations, recipes, lists of letters written, patient charges or payments, and a few comments on his house repairs using stucco. At the end of the volume are a number of poems and epigrams.
The collection features 63 letters, dated 1800-1822 and undated. Topics include progress of various vaccination programs, at home and abroad, as well as his recognition in Parliament and the Royal Jennerian Society; impact of illness in local families; preparations for war, which he opposes; an inscription for his brother's tombstone; gifts and food sent to family and friends; illness among his family members; comments on various printing jobs; settling of accounts, lending money, and dealing with unfavorable tenants and farm managers; fossil collecting; requests for positions on behalf of others and for the return a prisoner of war who is a relation; medical cases and consultations; and his appointment as physician extraordinary to George IV. Included are letters to Dr. [Thomas] Pruen; Charles Henry Parry; James Smith (1771-1841); Dr. S.B. LaBatt; and to Nigel Kingscote. Many items are copies of family letters, they were probably made during the life of Jenner's nephew, William Davies, and contain annotations by him.
Jenner writes that he has met with Lord Berkeley, that he seldom sees Fasbrooke, and that he has an upcoming trip to Colchester for vaccinations. He requests a recipe for curing "the itch" and an update on the affair with Mr. Mepeter.
Contains a poem about taxes and war and a drawing of a man's face
Jenner discusses a birthday celebration, the impact of influenza on local families, and the preparations for war, which he opposes.
Jenner commends the work of Mr. Fewster in support of his vaccination program. He requests that Fewster supply samples of his current vaccine (which Jenner believes is from his own original stock) and the date when Jenner first furnished him with it.
Turton states that he has shipped 86 bundles that constitute volumes 7 and 8, then inquires regarding the loan of a book.It is unclear how this letter relates to Edward Jenner.
Jenner supplies an inscription for his dead brother, Stephen, then supplies an inscription for use following his own death. His wife, Catherine, writes her own letter, and supplies the rest of Stephen's inscription, along with an update on how the family fares.
Jenner congratulates Phillips on the birth of a new baby. He then outlines the investigation of vaccination by the College of Physicians and the House of Commons. He supplies a quote for use in Phillips' monthly magazine. He then makes recommendations for the inoculation for their baby.
Jenner discusses the delay in the funds granted him by Parliament, along with the health of family members. Year has been added in another hand in pencil
Jenner recommends the purchase of a brooch as a going away present for Mrs. Monroe and discusses the sending of a parcel to a mutual friend.
Jenner provides an update on the condition of Edward (his son?), who has suffered from a prolonged fever. He has been sent wood cocks as a thank you from a friend, and is searching for an upper man servant. In a postscript he notes Edward's continued improvement and points out that two hampers are being sent to Gloucestershire.
Jenner extends an invitation to a fete. Bernard replies that he has an engagement at that time.
Jenner announces that Parliament has voted him 20,000 pounds "for making public my Vaccine Discovery." Year has been added in another hand in pencil
In an incomplete letter, Jenner discusses the need for funds to support the Jennerian Society--he recommends they approach a Mr. Bernard with a request-- along with a paper he encloses for general circulation.
Jenner asks if Shelton, who is an engraver, has the plate of the CUCKOO. If so, he would like prints made. He also inquires whether Shelton has the plates of the vaccine arms.
Jenner comments that there is uncertainty regarding the timber, and that he received the wood pigeons Pruen has sent. He adds that his wife has a cold. He then comments on how well constructed female and male minds are. Transcription available.
Jenner writes regarding the politics surrounding his assuming then resigning from the directorship of the Royal Jennerian Society. Transcription available.
Jenner mentions family members and friends, including requesting a visit from Rev. Davies, that Mary Jenner make jelly and jam for the year, and notes that Lord Berkeley has had a round of small pox in his home.
Jenner discusses supporting vaccination in Lisbon. Letter also carries a date of 1809 October 4
In an unfinished letter, Jenner writes that Fasbrooke, who appeared so well to Davies, "is out of senses."
Catherine writes on behalf of her father to thank Labatt for sending the report of the Dublin Vaccine Institution, and let him know that he is pleased that his own letter was inserted.
Jenner outlines the potential purchase of land in Rockhampton by Davies, comments on Davies' health, mentions several family members and the settling of accounts.
Jenner discusses the health of several family members.
Jenner reports on the inoculation for small pox by Mrs. Rummells and her children.
Jenner discusses his loan of some money.
Jenner writes of the death of his good friend, Foye, and the opening this allows Mr. Fletcher in local elections. He mentions receiving a letter from Edward, then discusses Fosbrooke's new post and his potential for financial security. In a postscript, he demands that his tenant at his cottage be evicted, then requests a canvass of the neighborhood for the vote. Includes comments by William Davies, in red ink
Jenner requests a search warrant following the plundering of his orchard and garden. Date has been added in red ink
Jenner writes requesting a magistrate position for William Clark. Date has been added in red ink
Jenner states that he believes a woman has been treated unjustly by the overseer of Alkington. Date has been added in red ink
Jenner asks William to speak with the quarrymen regarding the fossils they are collecting for him.
Jenner thanks Murray for Dr. Smith's papers, which comment on the vaccine crust or seal. He notes that Smith will promote the vaccine's use around Baltimore. Jenner adds that he wants a copy of Cooper's work on vaccination from the man himself, and would be glad to pay for it. He mentions Burnett's "horrible" advertisement, along with the quarantining of a ship. In a postscript he adds that Mr. Evans health complaints are alarming and asks what has become of an annual report.
Jenner asks when William will be coming to Berkeley, for he would like him to meet with Evans Stibbs regarding the potential management of part of the farm. He derides Master Cole's management, who has destroyed the roof of the brewhouse.
Jenner writes that the raspberry plants must be placed in the ground while dormant. He wishes Davies to look to the farm, for expenses have been intolerable. He argues that his tenant Cole should be considered a rogue, and his account should include the loss of timber and walnut trees and other damage to property; Davies is to see a lawyer about the matter.
Jenner notes that he has been ill, with a heart palpitation. He will move to Cheltenham soon. He comments favorably on the annual report of a vaccination society, then urges it be published in the newspapers, as he has long desired. He then comments on Lord Bosingdon's bill.
Jenner comments on a speechmaker in Parliament who argues that vaccines afford only temporary security, as well as on how valuable the vaccine lancet has proven in the hands of some of the country women.
Jenner requests that his relation, who is an Infantry captain and a prisoner of war, be permitted to return to England. He mentions that vaccination has supported an increase in the population of the Empire, and preserved the life of the prince who will inherit it. On this basis he begs the favor he requested.
Jenner sends some grafts for Davies' use. He makes recommendations for treatment of headaches, then comments on his bad tenant, Cole. Date has been added in red ink
Jenner notes that he has seen George Hopkins, whose epileptic fits have rendered him incapable of serving as a lawyer.
Jenner asks for more information about an incident regarding his wall along the Severn River. He goes on to describe his wife's illness and how she longs for the bouquets Davies used to send her. He urges Davies to record the state of vegetation. He notes that Stephen Jenner is recovering.
Jenner consults on the treatment of Mrs. Cox, a patient. Includes prescriptions, a tonic, and recommendations for application of leeches.
Jenner discusses lagging legislation in Dublin regarding smallpox inoculation and practices elsewhere. Includes envelope.
Jenner consults on two cases, John Hickes, who has a brain injury, and an unnamed woman from Elberton, who has an "intestinal derangement."
Jenner inquires regarding a report he has heard that Fewster has been threatened with destruction. In a postscript, Jenner writes a note regarding their patient in Tytherington.
Jenner describes the papers he is sending to his Royal Highness regarding vaccination practices around the globe.
Jenner comments on the rain, then suggests the trade of a tongue for a sparerib.He promises to send books as soon as young Willy learns to read.
Jenner states that he is sorry to learn William has been ill, then invites him to dine on venison that afternoon.
Jenner rejoices in the health of his friend and his friend's wife. He then discusses the recent insurrection and the existing laws regarding it. In a postscript he seeks a position in "one of the public offices" for T. Marklove. Contains an additional address in red ink
Jenner requests Davies' presence in order to discuss the potential lending of money to Mrs. Marklove, as executor of the Marklove estate. The date has been provided in red ink, along with an additional note by Davies that Jenner ultimately refused to lend the money
Jenner writes that at this time of year he finds children often have herpetic blotches that make them unsuitable for vaccination. He notes that he did manage to vaccinate two children, who will be ready to meet the correspondent's purposes later in the week. Additional note in another hand identifying the letter as Jenner's. Transcription available.
Jenner writes to return an oath he has signed, hoping that it has been executed properly. He would have taken the oath in person if his health permitted it. Accompanied by the oath, sworn and signed, consequent to his appointment to the place of Physician Extraordinary to His Majesty, George IV, on March 26, 1821.
Jenner writes concerning illness suffered by William's son and their governess.
Jenner discusses a printing job on vaccinations. He doesn't like the flourishes Fosbrooks has added, "but should it lessen human misery I shall be happy in having sent it out." It requires an introduction by Charles. He then discusses his financial arrangements with F--, along with family members. Transcription available.
Jenner promises to collect geological specimens for Charles to examine. He also comments on a written piece being printed to which he has provided corrections. Two copies. The second version is missing some of the original text and has a biographical sketch pasted to it.
Jenner writes with instructions regarding a discussion of a property title dispute he has with Mrs. Hickes.
Jenner requests a meeting to discuss his Berkeley farms. Date has been added in red ink
Jenner writes of a house he has rented, mentions a discussion with a printer, and offers his note on election day.
Jenner mentions the health of two patients, one of whom has a fever.
Jenner wishes he could have no further contact with Robert Clarke, then asks Davies to keep the cash he has since Jenner has no need of it. He mentions a plan to return to Berkeley.
Jenner outlines his plan to print copies of "scraps" to be given away. He adds that "Fosbrooke has been here" and is in good spirits, although he adds "The immense quantity of snuff that is flowing up his Nostrils in one continued stream, must finally do him irreparable injury." He directs Davies to pay Larne a sum of 80 pounds or more.
Jenner lists his advocates (in regard to vaccination?), then discusses matters on the farm, including picking cherries, an auction (for grain?) , and, in a postscript, the preparation of one of his houses for residents.He wishes the Rockhampton surgeon to contact him and provide updates on veterinary proceedings.
Jenner discusses the murder of Mr. Perceval, brother of Lord Arden. He requests copies of the Gibraltar Book.
Jenner discusses the matter of the Jenkins' servant, and whether she should be prosecuted.
Jenner requests the living at Hill Court to be given to his nephew, Rev. G. Jenner. Marked "a copy"
Jenner sends a note regarding "the most common obstruction to the correct action of the vaccine virus, both locally and constitutionally."
There are a few miscellaneous papers, including poems, a prescription and a recipe, and a receipt for the Royal Jennerian Society.
There are four holograph prescriptions and two recipes (1807-1821), four with initials "E.J.," mounted and bound in a volume with an engraved portrait of Jenner.
Collection also includes a manuscript diary (188 pages) maintained by Jenner in 1811 and the Fall of 1812, primarily containing notes on his patients and their treatments for various illnesses, from syphilis to gout to heart ailments (including prescriptions) along with records of many vaccinations. There is a note of receipt of a letter (1812 Sept 12) from Dr. Alex Crichton stating that vaccination flourished throughout the Russian Empire. Also contains reports on the dissection of organs from a cow, horse, and sheep, along with two sets of notations regarding diabetes, and one on "pulmonary affections." There are occasional notes with weather observations, recipes, lists of letters written, patient charges or payments, and a few comments on his house repairs using stucco. At the end of the volume are a number of poems and epigrams.
The Jewish Heritage Foundation of North Carolina (JHFNC) graphic arts collection is an artificial collection of engravings, etchings, lithographs, screen prints, drawings, and sketches with themes related to Jewish religion, history, and culture. Plates removed from eighteenth- and nineteenth-century encyclopedias, Bibles, travel literature, atlases, and other illustrated volumes make up approximately two-thirds of the collection. The remainder of the collection contains twentieth-century prints and drawings, including original prints by Jewish and Israeli artists.
Artists represented in the collection include William Henry Bartlett, Paul Bourguignon, Gustave Doré, Joseph Margulies, Cécile Reims-Deux, and Yehudit Yelin-Ginat.
A version of this engraving appears in editions of "The Christian in Palestine, or, Scenes of sacred history : historical and descriptive" by Henry Stebbing
A version of this engraving appears in editions of "The Christian in Palestine, or, Scenes of sacred history : historical and descriptive" by Henry Stebbing
A version of this engraving appears in editions of "The Christian in Palestine, or, Scenes of sacred history : historical and descriptive" by Henry Stebbing
A version of this engraving appears in editions of "The Christian in Palestine, or, Scenes of sacred history : historical and descriptive" by Henry Stebbing
Publication information printed below image: London: Geo. Virtue. A version of this engraving appears in editions of "The Christian in Palestine, or, Scenes of sacred history : historical and descriptive" by Henry Stebbing
A version of this engraving appears in editions of "The Christian in Palestine, or, Scenes of sacred history : historical and descriptive" by Henry Stebbing
A version of this engraving appears in editions of "The Christian in Palestine, or, Scenes of sacred history : historical and descriptive" by Henry Stebbing
A version of this engraving appears in editions of "The Christian in Palestine, or, Scenes of sacred history : historical and descriptive" by Henry Stebbing
A version of this engraving appears in editions of "The Christian in Palestine, or, Scenes of sacred history : historical and descriptive" by Henry Stebbing
A version of this engraving appears in editions of "The Christian in Palestine, or, Scenes of sacred history : historical and descriptive" by Henry Stebbing
A version of this engraving appears in editions of "The Christian in Palestine, or, Scenes of sacred history : historical and descriptive" by Henry Stebbing
A version of this engraving appears in editions of "The Christian in Palestine, or, Scenes of sacred history : historical and descriptive" by Henry Stebbing
Publication information accompanying image: London: Geo. Virtue. A version of this engraving appears in editions of "The Christian in Palestine, or, Scenes of sacred history : historical and descriptive" by Henry Stebbing
A version of this engraving appears in editions of "The Christian in Palestine, or, Scenes of sacred history : historical and descriptive" by Henry Stebbing
A version of this engraving appears in editions of "The Christian in Palestine, or, Scenes of sacred history : historical and descriptive" by Henry Stebbing
Text accompanying image: P. 54. Vol. III. T. A version of this engraving appears in English-language editions of Calmet's "Dictionary of the Holy Bible"
A version of this engraving appears in editions of Félix Torres Amat (translator), "La Sagrada Biblia" (Montaner y Simón, publisher)
A version of this engraving appears in editions of Félix Torres Amat (translator), "La Sagrada Biblia" (Montaner y Simón, publisher)
Text accompanying image: Bild zur Theaterzeitung No. 19.
Print numbering: 36/60
Print numbering: 120?/243. sheet 325 x 345mm; plate 225 x 185 mm. Includes title and artist's signature in pencil
Text accompanying image: Blätter für Kostümkunde. Neue Folge. 169. Blatt.
Publication information accompanying image: A Fullarton & Co., London & Edinburgh. A version of this print appears in "The faiths of the world: an account of all religions and religious sects, their doctrines, rites, ceremonies, and customs," v. 2
Text accompanying image: "The Illustrations by H. Warren & Engraved by J. B. Allen; The Map Drawn & Engraved by J. Rapkin." Publication information accompanying image: The London Printing and Publishing Company. Versions of this map appear in editions of "Tallis's illustrated atlas and modern history of the world."
"The Illustrations by H. Warren & Engraved by R. Baker; The Map Drawn & Engraved by J. Rapkin." The London Printing and Publishing Company. Plates likely removed from an edition of "Tallis's illustrated atlas and modern history of the world."
Folded leaf with plate and text in French and Hebrew. Forms part of: Cecile Reims, Psaumes (Paris: Editions Arts du Monde, 1951)
Folded leaf with plate and text in French and Hebrew. Forms part of: Cecile Reims, Psaumes (Paris: Editions Arts du Monde, 1951)
numbering on back: 1
numbering on back: 2
numbering on back: 3
numbering on back: 4
numbering on back: 5
numbering on back: 6
numbering on back: 7
numbering on front: 9
numbering on back: 10
"Drawn...from a sketch by Lieut. Col. McNiven." Publication information printed below image: "Blackie & Son, Glasgow, Edinburgh & London"
"Presented on the 11th Independence Day by Maariv Daily and American Israeli Paper Mills Ltd." Publication information also printed in Hebrew.
Signed in pencil by artist and numbered: 127/300.
Signed in pencil by artist and numbered: 120/300.
Signed in pencil by artist and numbered: 122/300.
The plate was likely removed from an edition of William Alexander, "Picturesque representations of the dress and manners of the Austrians." A clipping of the original text accompanying the plate is attached.
Text accomanying image: Pl. 13
Text accompanying image: [plate] 52. Pag. 211. Tom. 2
Engraving signed by artist and initialed by engraver? The image is printed on page 736 of Sunday Magazine, Sept. 1, 1870.
Text accompanying images: "Judea capta", "Arch of Titus". The plate was likely removed from an an edition of "Fragments, being illustrations of the manners, incidents, and phraseology, of the Holy Scriptures…with additional remarks, observations, and plates, intended as a continued appendix to Calmet's Dictonary of the Holy Bible..."
Text accompanying image: CCVI
Writing at the center of the image, possibly the artist's signature: G. Sch[ai?]tte[n?].
P. Abramovic, "Drying Nets (Tiberian)"; M. Castel, "Sephardic Synagogue in Safad"; J. Eisensher, "Street in Old Safad"; Errell, "Mother and Child"; A. L. Fein, "Beth-Alfa"; J. Frenkel, "Old Safad'; M. Janco, "Smoking the Waterpipe"; Kahana, "Oriental Composition"; J. Kossonogi, "Street in Tiberias"; M. Levanon, "Jerusalem"; Mokady, "Boy With Stick"; A. Naton, "Shabbat Candles"; J. Saritzky, "Tel-Aviv"; J. Simon, "Earth"; E. Sigard, "Road to Zikhron Yaakov"
The oral history video recordings, audio recordings, and transcripts in this collection were created or collected by the Jewish Heritage Foundation of North Carolina (JHFNC) and historian Leonard Rogoff as source material for various projects related to the history of Jews in North Carolina. The collection consists of individual and group interviews of Jewish residents of urban and rural North Carolina, including rabbis and elected public officials. Families represented include the Brenner, Cone, Evans, Kittner, and Samet families. Topics discussed by interviewees include family and community history, religious education, participation in Jewish congregations, anti-Semitism and race relations in North Carolina, World War II military service and the Holocaust, family businesses, and philanthropy.
The JHFNC projects for which the oral histories were created include the museum exhibit "Migrations: Jewish settlers of eastern North Carolina" (2000-2002), the book "A history of Temple Emanu-El: an extended family, Weldon, North Carolina" (2007), and the museum exhibit, documentary film, and book "Down Home: Jewish life in North Carolina" (2007-2012). Unaffiliated projects from which the JHFNC collected oral histories include the Duke University undergraduate honors thesis "From Pine Street to Watts Street: an oral history of the Jews of Durham, North Carolina" by Robin Gruber (1986), the oral history project of the 1986 Beth El Synagogue (Durham) Confirmation class, Rogoff's book "Homelands: southern Jewish identity in Durham and Chapel Hill, North Carolina" (2001), and the Steven Channing documentary film "Durham: a self-portrait," which shares video interview footage with "Down Home." Some of the media on which the oral histories were recorded contain additional video footage used for "Down Home" or "Durham: a self-portrait."
The majority of the interviews were performed by Leonard Rogoff and volunteers from the profiled Jewish communities. Other interviewers include Robin Gruber, Steven Sager, Steven Channing, Sharon Fahrer, and Jan Schochet. Geographic locations represented in this series include Asheville, Brevard, Burnsville, Hendersonville, and Camp Blue Star.
Container label: "Exteriors- walking to seminars; cantor singing... lunch with B'nai Brith attendees...Wild Acres…glassblowers - Bernsteins"
Container label: "Bernstein's glass pieces, Yaffa Sikorski [Sikorsky-Todd] & Jeff Todd, Rob Levin"
Container label: "6/21/05 Asheville NC; Norman Bossert; Brevard Jewish Community; Interviewer: Leonard Rogoff"
Container label: "Blue Star - Walter Solomon, Barry Eisenberg, Rodger Popkin"
Container label: "Camp Blue Star, Vicky and Roger [Rodger] Popkin, Rosalee [Rosalie] Popkin, Archery - kids, Photo of camp - Kiddush Prayer, Barry Eisenberg, Shabbat Service"
Container label: "Asheville: Jan Schocket, Sharon Fahrer"
Container label: "Morris Kaplan, Hendersonville, Agudas Israel Cong."
Container label: "Camp Blue Star, Miles Kutler [Kuttler], Roger [Rodger] Popkin and Vicky Kligerman"
Container label: "Camp Blue Star, Vicky and Roger [Rodger] Popkin, Rosalee [Rosalie] Popkin, Archery - kids, Photo of camp - Kiddush Prayer, Barry Eisenberg, Shabbat Service"
Container label: "Camp Blue Star, Miles Kutler [Kuttler], Roger [Rodger] Popkin and Vicky Kligerman"
Container label: "Bernstein's glass pieces, Yaffa Sikorski [Sikorsky-Todd] & Jeff Todd, Rob Levin"
Container label: "Bernstein's glass pieces, Yaffa Sikorski [Sikorsky-Todd] & Jeff Todd, Rob Levin"
Container label: "Milton Lurey Tape 1"
Container label: "Milton Lurey Tape 2"
Container label: "Marilyn Blomberg Patton"
Container label: "Blue Star - Walter Solomon, Barry Eisenberg, Rodger Popkin"
Container label: "Camp Blue Star, Miles Kutler [Kuttler], Roger [Rodger] Popkin and Vicky Kligerman"
Container label: "Camp Blue Star, Vicky and Roger [Rodger] Popkin, Rosalee [Rosalie] Popkin, Archery - kids, Photo of camp - Kiddush Prayer, Barry Eisenberg, Shabbat Service"
Container label: "Camp Blue Star, Vicky and Roger [Rodger] Popkin, Rosalee [Rosalie] Popkin, Archery - kids, Photo of camp - Kiddush Prayer, Barry Eisenberg, Shabbat Service"
Container label: "Tape #2 Rabbi Robinson"
Container label: "Asheville: Jan Schocket [Schochet], Sharon Fahrer"
Container label: "Asheville: Julienne Winner, Asheville Cemetary, Jan Schocket [Schochet]
Container label: "Jan Schocket [Schochet], placards, JCC/Beth Ha Tephila Reform, Beth Israel, Sylvia and Karl Straus; Gordon Scrapyard - Statesville - Saul and Kalman"
Container label: "Blue Star - Walter Solomon, Barry Eisenberg, Rodger Popkin"
Container label: "Asheville - Blue Ridge Parkway, Jerry Sternberg, Hard Lox Jewish Festival, Rabbi Susskind"
Container label: "Jan Schocket, placards, JCC/Beth Ha Tephila Reform, Beth Israel, Sylvia and Karl Straus; Gordon Scrapyard - Statesville - Saul and Kalman"
Container label: "Asheville - Blue Ridge Parkway, Jerry Sternberg, Hard Lox Jewish Festival, Rabbi Susskind"
Container label: "Bernstein's glass pieces, Yaffa Sikorski [Sikorsky-Todd] & Jeff Todd, Rob Levin"
Container label: "Asheville: Julienne Winner, Asheville Cemetary, Jan Schocket [Schochet]"
Geographic locations represented in this series include Charlotte and Gastonia.
Container label: "Wilmington: Nathan Schwartz int.; Walter Klein, Phillip Blumenthal"
Container label: "Wilmington: Nathan Schwartz int.; Walter Klein, Phillip Blumenthal"
Container label: "Charlotte: Jubans; Greensboro: Elsewhere Artist Collaborative"
Container label: "Marshall Rauch/Alwyn Oscar Goldstein"
Container label: "William (Bill) Gorelick"
Container label: "Interview with Bill Gorelick"
Container label: "Esther Grosswald"
Container label: "Jerry Levin"
Container label: "Sandra and Leon Levine"
Container label: "Marshall Rauch/Alwyn Oscar Goldstein"
Container label: "Charlotte: Jubans; Greensboro: Elsewhere Artist Collaborative"
Container label: "Rabbi Schindler"
Container label: "Charlotte: Jubans; Greensboro: Elsewhere Artist Collaborative"
Geographic locations represented in this series include Chapel Hill, Durham, and Oxford, North Carolina.
Container label: "Henry Bane"
Container label: "Henry Bane"
Container label: "Henry Bane Tape 2"
Container label: "Judge Bane - April 1; Beth-Nina"
Container label: "Harry Bergman"
Container label: "Ethel May Bernson"
Interviewees include George and Ricki Lewin, Anna and Sigmund Meyer, May Segal, and Pat Silver. Container label: "Luncheon discussion w/Sigmund, Anna Meyers [Meyer], George & Ricki Levin [Lewin], Pat Silver, May Segal"
Interviewees include Henry Bane, Emanuel J. "Mutt" Evans, Gilbert "Gibby" Katz, Norman Lefstein, Peter Ornstein, Joel Schwartz, Melvin Shimm, Gladys Siegel, and Lewis Siegel. Container label: "Beth El Pres"
Interviewees include Henry Bane, Emanuel J. "Mutt" Evans, Gilbert "Gibby" Katz, Norman Lefstein, Peter Ornstein, Joel Schwartz, Melvin Shimm, Gladys Siegel, and Lewis Siegel. Container label: "Beth El Pres"
Interviewees include Henry Bane, Emanuel J. "Mutt" Evans, Gilbert "Gibby" Katz, Norman Lefstein, Peter Ornstein, Joel Schwartz, Melvin Shimm, Gladys Siegel, and Lewis Siegel. Container label: "Beth El presidents - Tape 1, 9/86"
Interviewees include Henry Bane, Emanuel J. "Mutt" Evans, Gilbert "Gibby" Katz, Norman Lefstein, Peter Ornstein, Joel Schwartz, Melvin Shimm, Gladys Siegel, and Lewis Siegel. Container label: "[Pres. Mtg. Beth El]"
Container label: "Dorothy Blum interviewed by Lori Posner, Chapel Hill, NC 27514"
Container label: "Sarah Cohen"
Container label: "Leon & Phyllis Dworsky"
Container label: "Side A - Ezrahi, Side B- Katz - Dworsky"
Container label: "Dworsky & Meyers"
Container label: "Leon & Phyllis Dworsky"
Container label: "Eliel Shimm"
Container label: "Eli Evans"
Container label: "Eli Evans, Monroe Evans, Mrs. Monroe Evans"
Transcript label: "Eli Evans, outdoors interview"
Transcript label: "Eli Evans, formal interview"
Container label: "E.J. Evans"
Container label: "E.J. Evans"
Container label: "Mrs. Sarah Evans"
Container label: "Robinson O. Everett"
Container label: "Ruth & Rashi Fein, Rabbi"
Container label: "Interview with Sam & Jeanette Fink, May 4, 1986, by D. Wahl"
Container label: "Stan Fox, b-roll Stan at his desk"
Container label: "Molly Freedman 4/1"
Container label: "Brenda Ginsburg"
Container label: "Fanny Gladstein"
Container label: "Melvin Gladstein"
Container label: "Lena Goldman - 1"
Container label: "Lena Goldman - 2"
Container label: "Lena on deli's"
Container label: "Sadie Goodman & Pat Silver"
Container label: "Sadie Goodman & Pat Silver; Elyse Lazarus, Lisa Lefstein"
Container label: "Pat Silver"
Container label: "Ruth Greenburg [Greenberg]"
Container label: "Durham - Rogoff, Grossman"
Container label: "Lucy Handler"
Container label: "Joe Hockfield"
Container label: "Joe Hockfield"
Participants include Henry Bane, Leon Dworsky, E. J. Evans, and Hazel Wishnov. Container label: "Old Time Residents/Jews in D[urham]"
Partial transcript and summary of discussion. Participants include Henry Bane, Leon Dworsky, E. J. Evans, and Hazel Wishnov."
Interviewees include Melvin Rashkis, Zora Rashkis, Judith Ruderman, Max Samfield, and Joel Smith. Container label: "Judea Reform Presidents - Max Samfield, Mel & Zora Rashkis, Judith Ruderman, Joel Smith"
Interviewees include Melvin Rashkis, Zora Rashkis, Judith Ruderman, Max Samfield, and Joel Smith. Container label: "Judea Reform Presidents"
Interviewees include Rabbi John Friedman and Rabbi Efraim Rosenzweig. Container label: "Friedman-Rosenzweig"
Container label: "Milton Julian"
Container label: "Interview with Alfreda Kaplan on April 23, 1986. Also with Jake Kaplan. Interviewer Judith Ruderman, about 1 hr. 15 min."
Container label: "Gibby Katz Tape 1"
Container label: "Gilbert Katz Second Tape"
Container label: "Gibby Katz I"
Container label: "Gibby Katz, 9/23/86, Chapel Hill, by Leonard Rogoff"
Container label: "Side A - Ezrahi, Side B- Katz - Dworsky"
Container label: "Charlotte Levin"
Container label: "Charlotte Levin"
Container label: "George & Ricky Lewin"
Container label: "Max Lieberman/David Zeiger/Nathan Siegel"
Appears to be duplicate recording. Container label: "Max Lieberman "
Container label: "Interview with Edith London, May 22, 86"
Container label: "Robert Marcus"
Container label: "Robert Marcus"
Container label: "Sam Margolis"
Container label: "Sam Margolis 11/15"
Container label: "Sam Margolis 3/25; Robert Klein/Karen Feldman"
Container label: "Charlie Markham"
Container label: "Sigmund Meyer "
Container label: "Sigmund Meyer/Rabbi Steve Sager"
Container label: "Sigmund Meyer "
Container label: "Dworsky & Meyers"
Container label: "Pearl Morrison"
Container label: "Rabbi Israel Mowshowitz"
Container label: "Rabbi Israel Mowshowitz"
Container label: "Paul Max"
Container label: "Mark Pinsky"
Container label: "Amnon Rapport [Rapoport]"
Container label: "Lois Ray"
Container label: "Durham - Rogoff, Grossman"
Container label: "Rabbi Rosenzweig Oral History/Jewish Community"
Container label: "Steven Sager"
Container label: "Interview with May Segal April 1, 1986"
Container label: "Mel Shimm"
Container label: "Eliel Shimm"
Container label: "Miriam Slifkin"
Container label: "Abe Stadiem"
Container label: "Helen Stahl (1955)"
Container label: "Max Swartz/Nina Shubert/Robert Klein"
Container label: "Max Swartz "
Container label: "Rabbis/Ornstein"
Container label: "Hazel Wishnov"
Container label: "[Untitled]"
Geographic locations represented in this series include Fayetteville and Lumberton, North Carolina.
Container label: "Eli Evans, Monroe Evans, Mrs. Monroe Evans"
Container label: "Eli Evans, Monroe Evans, Mrs. Monroe Evans"
Container label: "Joel Fleishman"
Container label: "David Weinstein"
Geographic locations represented in this series include Goldsboro, Greenville, Kinston, Rocky Mount, and Wilson, North Carolina.
Container label: "Morris Brody, Michael Caine, Greenville, SC [NC], Bad Audio"
Container label: "Morris Brody, Michael Caine, Greenville, SC [NC], Bad Audio"
Container label: "Rabbi Cain, Greenville"
Container label: "Flora Hanchrow/Linda Silverstein"
Container label: "Jerry Kanter"
Container label: "Amy Meyers Crumbein [Krumbein]"
Container label: "Oheb Temple, Goldsboro: Arnold Leder & Pete Norris, Emily Weil"
Container label: "Steven Leder"
Container label: "Goldsboro: Emily Weil, downtown exteriors, Steve Leder - Wilson"
Container label: "Steve Leder - Wilson - band"
Container label: "Richard Levin "
Container label: "Oheb Temple, Goldsboro: Arnold Leder & Pete Norris, Emily Weil"
Container label: "Elmer Oettinger"
Container label: "Shrago"
Container label: "Oheb Temple, Goldsboro: Arnold Leder & Pete Norris, Emily Weil"
Container label: "Goldsboro: Emily Weil, downtown exteriors, Steve Leder - Wilson"
Geographic locations represented in this series include Burlington, Greensboro, and High Point, North Carolina.
Container label: "Zelda Bernard"
Container label: "Art & Joan [Joanne] Bluethenthal"
Container label: "Art & Joan [Joanne] Bluethenthal"
Container label: "Ben Cone - exteriors - hunting - interview"
Interviewees include George Scheer, Lisa Lipton, Cynthia Brinich-Langlois, Saralee Gallien, Jarema Osofsky, Yuko Takemura, and Eliza Wicks-Frank. Container label: "Charlotte: Jubans; Greensboro: Elsewhere Artist Collaborative"
Container label: "Greensboro: Samet interviews: Norm, Harry, Lenny, Gray interviews: Sid, David, Elsewhere"
Container label: "Rabbi Fred Guttman"
Container label: "NC Jewish History, Interview Carolyn LeBauer, Adelaide Israel - beg. Int."
Container label: "NC Jewish History, Interview Carolyn LeBauer, Adelaide Israel"
Container label: "Interview: Adelaide Israel Tape I"
Container label: "Interview: Adelaide Israel Tape II"
Container label: "Interview Adelaide Israel/Archie Israel"
Container label: "Interview Adelaide Israel/Archie Israel"
Container label: "Arthur Kaplan"
Container label: "Leonard Kaplan"
Container label: "Nat Labell - Greensboro, 4/19/05"
Container label: "NC Jewish History, Interview Carolyn LeBauer, Adelaide Israel - beg. Int."
Container label: "NC Jewish History, Interview Carolyn LeBauer, Adelaide Israel"
Container label: "[Untitled]"
Container label: "Seymour Levin"
Container label: "Lucy Goldsmith Parish"
Container label: "Betty Roth"
Container label: "American Hebrew Academy - northern man on oxygen [Chico Sabbah]- 2nd tape?"
Container label: "American Hebrew Academy - administrator"
Container label: "American Hebrew Academy - Saba [Sabbah], administrator"
Container label: "Chico Sabbah"
Container label: "Elsie Samet"
Container label: "Samet [V? J?]"
Container label: "Samet "
Container label: "Samet "
Container label: "Greensboro: Samet interviews: Norm, Harry, Lenny, Gray interviews: Sid, David, Elsewhere"
Container label: "Down Home: Jewish life in North Carolina: Norman Samet, Harry Samet, Lenny Samet, Greensboro, NC"
Container label: "Greensboro: Samet interviews: Norm, Harry, Lenny, Gray interviews: Sid, David, Elsewhere"
Container label: "Down Home: Jewish life in North Carolina: Norman Samet, Harry Samet, Lenny Samet, Greensboro, NC"
Container label: "Greensboro: Samet interviews: Norm, Harry, Lenny, Gray interviews: Sid, David, Elsewhere"
Container label: "Charlotte: Jubans; Greensboro: Elsewhere Artist Collaborative"
Container label: "Louis Silver Greensboro 12/12/07"
Container label: "Flora Hanchrow/Linda Silverstein"
Container label: "Tom & Frank Sloan"
Container label: "Fred Swartzberg interview 7/11/2004"
"
Container label: "Leah Tannenbaum"
Container label: "Leah Tannenbaum"
No audio. The recording was probably transferred from the digital betacam recordings of Tannenbaum's April 2002 interview. Container label: "Leah Tannenbaum"
Container label: "Alice Ehrlich"
Container label: "Glass Horowitz"
Container label: "Glass-Hurwitz"
Container label: "Glass/Hurwitz"
Container label: "Abe Holztman, Side B - Marilyn Farber"
Container label: "Glass Horowitz"
Container label: "Glass-Hurwitz"
Container label: "Glass/Hurwitz"
Container label: "End of Muriel Offerman interview Wallace, NC. Leah Levine interview, Raleigh, NC"
Container label: "Charlotte Litwack"
Container label: "Frances Penslar"
Container label: "Dan and Alice Satisky"
Geographic locations represented in this series include Enfield, Roanoke Rapids, Warrenton, and Weldon, North Carolina, and Emporia, Virginia.
Container label: "Betty Bloom"
Container label: "Brenda Britton"
Container label: "Josephson Family/Coblenz/Packer"
Container label: "Laverne Cohen"
Container label: "Ruth Diamond"
Container label: "Warrenton: Elsie Weldon, Ruth Diamond, Hazel Hargrove, Alex and Charles Kazenstein, Bill Frazier; Wilmington Cemetary, Ben D'Lugin"
Container label: "Stan & Harriet Bloom Dickman"
Container label: "Maralyn Farber (alone)"
Container label: "Tape 1, 1) Wildacres experience, Mar. Farber 2) Interview w/Daddy"
Container label: "Sarah [Susan] Bloom Farber"
Container label: "Jack Fox - Weldon"
Container label: "Warrenton: Elsie Weldon, Ruth Diamond, Hazel Hargrove, Alex and Charles Kazenstein, Bill Frazier; Wilmington Cemetary, Ben D'Lugin"
Container label: "Harry Freid"
Container label: "Lyn Green"
Container label: "Warrenton: Elsie Weldon, Ruth Diamond, Hazel Hargrove, Alex and Charles Kazenstein, Bill Frazier; Wilmington Cemetary, Ben D'Lugin"
Container label: "Side B - Hilda [Hilde] Joseph, Side A- Simon & Fanny Habowsky Meyer"
Container label: "Josephson Family/Coblenz/Packer"
Container label: "Warrenton: Elsie Weldon, Ruth Diamond, Hazel Hargrove, Alex and Charles Kazenstein, Bill Frazier; Wilmington Cemetary, Ben D'Lugin"
Container label: "Katzenstein"
Container label: "Warrenton: Elsie Weldon, Ruth Diamond, Hazel Hargrove, Alex and Charles Kazenstein, Bill Frazier; Wilmington Cemetary, Ben D'Lugin"
Container label: "Janice Specter Kinghoff"
Container label: "Ben Kittner, Side B - Rhoda Kittner"
Container label: "Bill & Ida Kittner"
Container label: "Dorothy Kittner"
Container label: "Harry Kittner"
Container label: "Ben Kittner, Side B - Rhoda Kittner"
Container label: "Ben Marks (Side A), Jodi Kittner Laibstain/Sam Kittner (Side B)"
Container label: "Ben Marks (Side A), Jodi Kittner Laibstain/Sam Kittner (Side B)"
Container label: "Lisa Kittner Latham"
Container label: "Helen Leiwand"
Container label: "Bob Liverman"
Container label: "Ben Marks (Side A), Jodi Kittner Laibstain/Sam Kittner (Side B)"
Container label: "Nancy Marks"
Container label: "Side B - Hilda Joseph, Side A- Simon & Fanny Habowsky Meyer"
Container label: "Bari Novey"
Container label: "Josephson Family/Coblenz/Packer"
Container label: "Lucia Peel Powe"
Container label: "Shirley Szabo"
Container label: "Isabel [Isabelle] Vatz"
Container label: "Marion Winer Silvester [Marion Silvester Winer]"
Container label: "Warrenton: Elsie Weldon, Ruth Diamond, Hazel Hargrove, Alex and Charles Kazenstein, Bill Frazier; Wilmington Cemetary, Ben D'Lugin"
Geographic locations represented in this series include New Bern, Wallace, and Wilmington, North Carolina.
Container label: "Sigmund Bear"
Container label: "Sigmund Bear"
Container label: "Miriam Freedman [Friedman]"
Container label: "NC Jewish Project 2/25/05 Hannah Block - Piano, intv"
Container label: "Warrenton: Elsie Weldon, Ruth Diamond, Hazel Hargrove, Alex and Charles Kazenstein, Bill Frazier; Wilmington Cemetary, Ben D'Lugin"
Container label: "Wilmington: Ben D'Lugin, Miriam Warschauer [Warshauer], Sam Warschauer [Warshauer], Temple of Israel, Old Cemetary Gate"
Container label: "Vivian Kramer/Muriel Offerman"
Container label: "Elbert Lipman"
Container label: "Vivian Kramer/Muriel Offerman"
Container label: "End of Muriel Offerman interview Wallace, NC. Leah Levine interview, Raleigh, NC"
Container label: "Wilmington: Nathan Schwartz int.; Walter Klein, Phillip Blumenthal"
"
Container label: "Art Shain Side 1, Poor sound quality"
Container label: "Wilmington: Ben D'Lugin, Miriam Warschauer [Warshauer], Sam Warschauer [Warshauer], Temple of Israel, Old Cemetary Gate"
Container label: "Wilmington: Ben D'Lugin, Miriam Warschauer [Warshauer], Sam Warschauer [Warshauer], Temple of Israel, Old Cemetary Gate"
Container label: "Wilmington: Ben D'Lugin, Miriam Warschauer [Warshauer], Sam Warschauer [Warshauer], Temple of Israel, Old Cemetary Gate"
Geographic locations represented in this series include Hickory, Mount Airy, Statesville, and Winston-Salem, North Carolina.
Container label: "Gordon Scrapyard - Statesville, Howard and Hannah [Hanna] Adler, Gene Lester Gordon, Temple Emanuel, Presbyterian Church, Gordon Hospice"
Container label: "Brenner"
Container label: "Abe Brenner"
Container label: "Eva [Eve] Gelfand"
Container label: "Eve Gelfand"
Container label: "Gordon Scrapyard - Statesville, Howard and Hannah [Hanna] Adler, Gene Lester Gordon, Temple Emanuel, Presbyterian Church, Gordon Hospice"
Container label: "Jan Schocket, placards, JCC/Beth Ha Tephila Reform, Beth Israel, Sylvia and Karl Straus; Gordon Scrapyard - Statesville - Saul and Kalman"
Container label: "Joe Reznick"
Container label: "Gerald Schafer"
Container label: "Leon Schafer"
Container label: "Leon Schaefer [Schafer]"
Container label: "Marvin, Howard, Elaine Zerden"
This series consists of questionnaires, instructional packets, bibliographies, and related materials produced or collected in connection with the creation of the oral histories in this collection.
The collection includes correspondence, printed matter, clippings, and other papers, relating mainly to North Carolina politics, especially the senatorial campaigns of 1948 and 1950. Includes legislative papers (1937-1941) on Johnson's service in the North Carolina Senate, material relating to tobacco-production quotas under the Agricultural Adjustment Administration, material from his service on the Supreme Court of N.C., and materials from Joseph Melville Broughton, North Carolina Governor and senator, and Frank Porter Graham, U.S. Senator and president of the University of North Carolina. Correspondents include Broughton, Graham, and Samuel Lubbell.
The Campaign Recordings series consists of original audio recordings from the 1948 and 1950 Senatorial campaigns. These are closed to use due to preservation concerns. Please contact Research Services if you are interested in these materials.
Correspondence to or from Jefferson Johnson, including professional and legal messages, personal notes, and family letters. Includes both handwritten and typed letters. Box 14 includes letters from well-wishers regarding Johnson's illness and retirement, 1956-1959.
Boxes 1-3 are blue clamshell boxes from the original 1963 collection. Box 14 is a flip-top box from the 2011 accession.
Includes internal notes, plans, memoranda, addresses, and press releases from Johnson's time as a campaign manager during the Senatorial campaigns of 1948 (J. Melville Broughton) and 1950 (Frank Graham). Also includes clippings and printed materials from Graham's campaign, both from Graham and his opponent, Willis Smith. Many of Smith's materials are racist.
Many of these materials are in poor condition due to water damage.
Boxes are blue clamshell boxes from the original 1963 addition.
This series includes a large amount of material relating to Johnson's life and career beyond his campaign management positions. It includes materials from his fraternity at Trinity College (now Duke University), and some references to his baseball career. Larger amounts of materials relate to his judicial and legislative careers throughout North Carolina. Also includes materials documenting his friendship with Frank Graham. Finally, the series includes clippings relating to his illness, retirement, and death in 1960. Additional correspondence regarding these topics can be found in the Correspondence Series.
Boxes 7 and 8 are blue clamshell boxes. Boxes 15 and 16 are flip-top boxes.
Includes newspaper clippings, flyers, brochures, and excerpts about Johnson's life and career, Frank Graham's life and career, J. Melville Broughton's life and career, and other miscellaneous topics. Also includes one folder of clippings on Senator Jesse Helms' role in the Willis Smith campaign against Graham in 1950.
Boxes 9 and 10 are blue clamshell boxes. Box 15 is a flip-top box.
16", 12", and 5" records and discs from Frank Graham's 1950 Senatorial campaign. Also includes an unlabeled recording.
Miscellaneous family materials, as well as one memoir on NC Civil War and Reconstruction sent to Johnson by an aquaintance in 1955.
Box 7 is a blue clamshell box. Box 16 is a flip-top box.
The papers of Joseph Jones (1749-1824) span the period 1681 to 1895, with the majority of papers dating from 1794 to 1842. The collection is divided into six series: Correspondence, 1781-1895 and undated; Legal Papers, 1681-1888 and undated; Financial Papers, 1772-1875 and undated; Customs Collector Papers, 1796-1836 and undated; Military Papers, 1788-1864 and undated; and Miscellany, 1801-1854 and undated. Within each series the material is arranged chronologically. The Correspondence and Customs Collector Papers comprise the bulk of the collection.
Primarily emphasized in the collection are Jones' land holdings in Virginia, Kentucky, North Carolina, Tennessee, and Ohio, some awarded on account of his military service during the Revolution; his service as Brigadier-General in the 15th Brigade of the Virginia Militia during the Whiskey Rebellion; his work as customs collector at the port of Petersburg; and a variety of legal and financial papers.
The collection covers three generations of the Jones Family. After Jones' death in 1824, papers chiefly relate to his children and other relatives. Among those represented are Jones' sons: Joseph Jr., who managed some of his father's farming interests; R. Benson, who worked for various merchants in New York in the 1840's; Thomas, who was sheriff in Chesterfield County, Va. in 1838; and Thomas' wife, Mary Newton Jones, and her brother Virginia Congressman Willoughby Newton, plus other related families. There is extensive correspondence between Mrs. Mary M. Jones and others (chiefly in the 1840's) indicating that she owned both real estate and slaves. Some of this property was located in Westmoreland County, Va.
Other subjects include reaction to the passage by Congress of Jay's treaty, documents relating to slave holdings, social conditions of women in the 19th century, and the service of Jones' grandson, Captain Thomas Jones, in the 40th Virginia Infantry Regiment during the Civil War.
For further information about Jones, see the Department's William Bragg Papers. Bragg became Jones' business partner about 1770 in Petersburg, Va.
Includes personal and business correspondence. The bulk of the business correspondence relates to the family's landholdings and finances.
Includes land grants, survey patents, copies and extracts from deeds, bonds, land plats hills of lading, contracts, articles of agreement, promissory notes, power of attorney agreements, and some indentures involving slave sales. Three land grants (1798) awarded Jones several hundred acres of land in Northwest Ohio for his military service.
Accounts, receipts, bills of sales (some involving slaves) and other miscellany financialpapers. A subseries (1853-1875 and undated) is listed under Mrs. Mary H. Peeples. It includes tax, clothing, and tuition receipts, and other financial records, covering the period after she was widowed in 1853. Her connection to the Jones family is unclear.
Includes correspondence, printed circulars from the United States Treasury Department, lists of licensed vessels, and other items, relating to Jones' position as Collector of Customs at the port of Petersburg, Va. Among the items is a bill of lading (1818 Oct. 21) from Marseilles, France, to Jones notifying him of articles sent through Petersburg for Thomas Jefferson at Monticello.
Correspondence, printed circulars, return lists, muster rolls, and brigade division, and military orders, relating to Jones' military service with the 15th Virginia Militia Brigade. A few items concern the 40th Virginia Infantry Regiment. Jones' grandson was in the Quartermasters Department with the regiment. Includes supply receipts, supply vouchers, other quartermaster reports, and additional miscellaneous items.
Includes information about an association for improving its members' legal knowledge, speeches, and other items.
The Kensinger Jones Papers, 1934-2001, document Jones's primary career as an executive for several major advertising agencies, including Leo Burnett Company, Campbell-Ewald Company, D.P. Brother and Company, Wilding Advertising, and William R.Biggs/Gilmore Associates; and his second career as a professor of advertising at Michigan State University. Materials consist primarily of correspondence, memoranda, notes, reports, scripts, and audiovisual materials that document the development of print, radio, and television advertising campaigns for a wide variety of clients. The history and management of advertising companies in Chicago and Detroit in the United States, in Australia, and in Singapore is also represented. Major clients documented include Chevrolet, the Florida Citrus Commission, General Motors Corporation, and Oldsmobile.
The Advertising Agencies Series, the largest, includes memoranda and correspondence related to the executive management of each agency and Jones's role in organizing and directing the creative activities of the agency or advertising team. Materials from Jones's work at the Leo Burnett Company consist primarily of office memoranda and weekly progress reports for radio and television commercials for clients such as: Mars, Incorporated; Kellogg Company; and the Green Giant Company. In Southeast Asia, Jones served as Regional Creative Director for Leo Burnett offices in Sydney, Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, Hong Kong and Bangkok. Materials include correspondence, speeches for creative seminars, and scripts for two films for the Singapore Tourist Promotion Board. Jones worked mainly with clients in the automotive industry, specifically Chevrolet at the Campbell-Ewald Company and Oldsmobile at D.P. Brother Company (as well as at Leo Burnett). Materials about General Motors relate to the potential of television specials for corporate advertising to promote the GM "Mark of Excellence" and the corporation's responsiveness to environmental and safety issues in the late sixties and seventies. Closely related to the Advertising Agencies Series, the Correspondence and Memoranda Series consists of carbons of outgoing correspondence from Jones, filed in chronological order with some memoranda.
Nearly a third of the collection pertains to Jones's tenure from 1982-1995 as Lecturer in the Department of Advertising, the School of Communication Arts at Michigan State University. The Michigan State University (MSU) Series includes correspondence with colleagues and students, materials from academic conferences and MSU's Visiting Advertising Professional program, as well as copies of Impact, the alumni newsletter for the Advertising Department. Of particular note are materials related to China and Taiwan in 1988 and 1990. The Course Materials Subseries details his advanced courses in creative advertising. In order to create a realistic, professional experience for the students, Jones assigned group projects that required students to create advertising campaigns or marketing strategies for national or state clients, local businesses, and university departments, including Archway Cookies, Oldsmobile, McDonalds, American Tourister, the Muskegon County Museum, and several MSU facilities and departments. The projects were presented to the class and evaluated not only by the client and Professor Jones, but also by the other students.
Throughout his life, Jones considered himself primarily to be a writer, and the Writings and Speeches Series reflects Jones's lifelong writing efforts. The series includes a wide variety of professional, personal, and unpublished writing: advertising presentations, speeches, articles, advertising seminars, scripts for radio programs and plays, poetry, an unpublished novel, and an autobiography. The Speeches Subseries and Published Articles Subseries document his creativity in advertising and his contributions to the industry as well as to local schools and organizations. Material in the Personal Series demonstrates his activities with professional and civic organizations; in addition this series contains personal correspondence and materials about the life and career of Leo Burnett.
Much of Jones's creative work in advertising was produced for the broadcast media, especially the early days of television advertising in the 1950s and 1960s. The Audiovisual Materials Series includes film and sound materials that document television advertising and Jones's creative contributions to the professional education of his advertising colleagues. Because several of his most successful films about advertising or creativity originated as speeches with slides, these materials are particularly rich in conjunction with related materials in the Writings and Speeches Series.
Arranged in subseries for each agency where Jones worked; subseries appear chronologically by the date that Jones first worked at each agency. This series consists primarily of office memoranda, correspondence, scripts for advertising presentations to clients, scripts for television or radio commercials, newspaper and magazine articles, and a few photographs. An Information Folder found in the inventory drawer at the Rare Book, Manuscript, and Special Collections Library contains additional biographical data and a description of Jones's positions with each agency. See individual subseries for more specific arrangement notes.
Arranged by three chronological time periods, when Jones held different positions with the agency in Chicago and South East Asia. Within each time period, the folders are arranged alphabetically.
Arranged alphabetically by major subject categories that correspond to Jones's work as Creative Director and Executive Vice-President. Major accounts include Chevrolet, General Motors, Florida Citrus Commission, and other new business prospects. Many of the files pertain to the operation and reorganization of the Creative Department as well as the management of the agency, when Jones served on the Executive Committee. Several Chevrolet film commercials won awards at notable advertising competitions. The papers also reflect Jones's focus on professional development -- coordinating seminars within the agency, writing articles, and presenting workshops with state, regional, and national advertising organizations. One effort resulted in the Creativity film, later renamed the Horse and the Fiddle. Another, Whatever Happened to Mrs. Momiyama, related the role of advertising in a free economy and the resurgence of the Japanese economy after WWII. Both a filmstrip and a film version were distributed by the American Association of Advertising Agencies (AAAA) to high schools and colleges. See also the Audiovisual Materials Series.
Arranged alphabetically by subject, the series documents Jones's work as Creative Director and Executive Vice President of the agency and his work on the Oldsmobile account. DPB became a subsidiary of Leo Burnett Company, Chicago, in 1967 and was renamed Leo Burnett Company of Michigan in 1971. In January, 1971, Jones moved to Leo Burnett Company headquarters in Chicago, continuing to direct the creative activity for all Oldsmobile advertising. See also Leo Burnett Company subseries, 1971-1972, for material related to Oldsmobile advertising and to interoffice coordination between Chicago and Detroit.
Arranged alphabetically by subject, this subseries documents Jones's part-time consulting work and includes correspondence, memos, brochures, and scripts for several projects. Of particular note are the Ford Marketing Institute seminars on advertising and marketing presented to car dealers, often at the annual National Automotive Dealers Association meetings. Included are the transcripts of interviews with several successful car dealers, which were used in the 1980 seminars. See also the Audiovisual Materials Series for film versions of the seminars.
Arranged alphabetically by subject, this subseries includes agency newsletters, memoranda and correspondence related to Jones's evaluation of the creative activities of the newly merged company and print ads for various clients. As Creative Director, Jones worked part time through 1982 and as a consultant thereafter.
Arranged chronologically, this series consists of carbons of outgoing business and personal correspondence, and office memoranda related to the advertising campaigns of the several agencies. Additional correspondence, from 1964 to 1974, occurs in the Advertising Agencies Series. From 1982 to 1995, professional correspondence and memoranda are located in the Michigan State University Series. Miscellaneous personal correspondence appears in the Personal Series.
Divided into two subseries, Subject Files and Course Materials, this series pertains to Jones's teaching activities, while he was a Lecturer in the Department of Advertising, in the School of Communication Arts, at Michigan State University in East Lansing, Mich. (Material describing the curriculum or memos about Mr. Jones's teaching schedule are part of the Subject Files Subseries.)
Arranged alphabetically, the Subject Files Subseries consists of correspondence, primarily with students, conference papers, articles, newsletters, and departmental memoranda. Of particular note are the materials related to China. In 1988, Jones and his wife traveled throughout China with a U.S. Exchange program related to the advertising profession. In 1989, Jones conducted a weeklong seminar for advertising professionals in Taiwan and a similar seminar in East Lansing for visitors from Taiwan.
Arranged chronologically by academic quarter and by course, the Course Materials Subseries pertains primarily to two advanced courses: Advertising 417-"Advanced Creative Strategy and Execution" and Advertising 441-"TV-Radio Advertising." For most courses, Jones taught over fifty students, divided into two sections. Other courses include: Advertising 317-"Creative Strategy and Execution" and after 1989-1990, Advertising 492-"Advanced Copywriting." For each course, a "Course Materials" folder typically includes a syllabus, a midterm and final exam, and for the later years, a coursepak of readings.
Subsequent course folders pertain to student projects and are titled with the name and location of the particular advertising client or product assigned for the course. Materials typically include: 1) background information on the client or product; 2) student reports often with creative illustrations and sample advertising; 3) evaluations of the group presentations by the client, by Jones, and by the other students; and 4) peer evaluations of individual contributions to the group. During some courses, students produced video or audio tapes. On occasion, selected student projects were presented at state or regional competitions. (A folder at the beginning of this subseries contains chronological and alphabetical listings of the student project assignments.)
Divided into four subseries: Speeches, Published Articles, Other Writings, St. Louis; and Other Writings, 1960-2001 and undated This series documents Jones's continuous dedication to writing. The bulk of the materials, 1955-1972, correspond to his advertising interests and consist of text and correspondence related to speeches (written for himself and occasionally for others) and related to articles submitted for publication. See also the Audiovisual Series for slides, films, videos, and audio products, which may relate to speeches.
Arranged chronologically, the Speeches Subseries contains the text and correspondence for speeches (written for himself and occasionally for others) to be delivered at advertising conferences, creative seminars, schools, or civic events. A chronological list compiled by Jones is in a folder at the beginning of the series; the same folder also contains a copy of this list annotated during processing regarding the presence or absence of folders and speeches.
Arranged chronologically, the Published Articles Subseries contains the text and correspondence for articles to be published in regional and national advertising publications. At the end are articles submitted to Advertising Age. A chronological listing is in a folder at the beginning of the series.
Arranged alphabetically by title, this subseries primarily includes writing from Jones's early career as a freelance writer in St. Louis.
This subseries includes published and unpublished literary and autobiographical writing, published articles and books about Jones's advertising career and experiences in World War II, miscellaneous speeches and talks, and other short pieces such as reviews and brochures for various groups. Arranged alphabetically by title.
The Personal Series includes materials about Jones's dedicated involvement in civic affairs with groups such as the Boy Scouts and the World Relief Fund; writings about his service in Alaska during WWII; personal correspondence; and other miscellaneous documents. Of particular note are the materials by and about Leo Burnett and the Leo Burnett Advertising Agency. Arranged alphabetically by category of material.
This series is arranged by media format subseries: 35mm slides, videotapes, audiotapes, and 16mm films that document commercials, speeches, and seminars and often augment print materials elsewhere in the collection. Live action film commercials for Chevrolet advertising on television shows from 1957-1967, such as The Dinah Shore Show, Bonanza, and Bewitched, were typically produced in Hollywood or Europe. In 1959 and 1960, two films won international awards - American in Paris and Magic Ride.A Child of My Own, is a film created for the Singapore Tourist Promotion Board in 1974-1975. Other films, including Creativity (renamed The Horse and Fiddle),Truth and Consequences: Form and Function in Advertising,The Importance of Being Interesting, and The Minstrel Principle, originated as seminar speeches with slide illustrations and were later produced as films. Whatever Happened to Mrs. Momiyama, a speech to students, was developed by the Advertising Association of America into a filmstrip and film for secondary schools about advertising, American business, and the Japanese economy after WWII.
Arranged alphabetically by title.
Arranged in three formats--U-matic videocassette, VHS videocassette, and 2" video reel--and then alphabetically by title within each format.
Arranged in two formats--audiocassttes and reel-to-reel tapes--and then alphabetically by title within each format.
Arranged alphabetically by title. Some titles assigned during processing.
Advertisements, awards, books, brochures, calendars, cartoons, certificates, clippings, photographs, posters, scrapbooks, storyboards, and teaching materials documenting Jones's advertising and academic careers. Arranged alphabetically by type of material, followed by bound books. At the end are materials in an oversize cabinet.
Collection (2009-0015) (2000 items, 3 lin. ft.; dated 1961-2004) includes correspondence, chronological files, calendars, clippings, memorabilia, notes, and administrative materials largely dating from Joseph's time as an undersecretary for the Department of the Interior and his ambassadorship to South Africa. Also included are some materials from his work for the Council on Foundations, largely dating from the late 1980s, and some awards and honors dating from the early 2000s. Some newspaper clippings dating from the 1960s discuss his Civil Rights work and ministerial activities. This material has not been processed and therefore no arrangement has been completed at this time. Acquired as part of the John Hope Franklin Research Center for African and African American History and Culture.
Addition (2012-0218) (3 items, 0.1 lin. ft.; dated 1999, 2002 and undated) comprises two photographs, one a 4x6-inch color official portrait (1999) the other a black-and-white 5x7-inch on location, perhaps in South Africa (undated), along with an article on Joseph in the University of Cape Town's Graduate School of Business magazine, vol. 3 no. 1 (Autumn 2002).
Addition (2012) (27 items, 0.1 lin. ft.; dated 1970-2000 and undated) contains primarily 16 color and black-and-white photographs ranging in size from 3x4-inches to 8x10-inches that document his official functions, clippings, an interview with Joseph following a plane crash he survived, and an invitations list for a cocktail party.
Collection (2009-0015) (3 lin. ft.; dated 1961-2004) includes correspondence, chronological files, calendars, clippings, memorabilia, notes, and administrative materials largely dating from Joseph's time as an undersecretary for the Department of the Interior and his ambassadorship to South Africa. Also included are some materials from his work for the Council on Foundations, largely dating from the late 1980s, and some awards and honors dating from the early 2000s. Some newspaper clippings dating from the 1960s discuss his Civil Rights work and ministerial activities. This material has not been processed and therefore no arrangement has been completed at this time. Acquired as part of the John Hope Franklin Research Center for African and African American History and Culture.
Addition (2012-0218)(3 items, 0.1 lin. ft.; dated 1999, 2002 and undated) comprises two photographs, one a 4x6-inch color official portrait (1999) the other a black-and-white 5x7-inch on location, perhaps in South Africa (undated), along with an article on Joseph in the University of Cape Town's Graduate School of Business magazine, vol. 3 no. 1 (Autumn 2002).
Addition (2012) (27 items, 0.1 lin. ft.; dated 1970-2000 and undated) contains primarily 16 color and black-and-white photographs ranging in size from 3x4-inches to 8x10-inches that document his official functions, clippings, an interview with Joseph following a plane crash he survived, and an invitations list for a cocktail party.
Collection of photocopies of thousands of daily columns on advertising and closely related subjects appearing in major newspapers, primarily the Chicago Sun-Times, the Chicago Tribune, and the New York Times. The most frequently represented authors are: George Lazarus (Tribune, 1985-1999), Nancy Millman (Sun-Times, until 1992), and Philip H. Dougherty (NYT, died 1988 September), as well as Randall Rothenberg, Kim Foltz, and Stuart Elliott, who succeeded Dougherty at the Times. Various guest columnists also wrote occasionally for the NYT. For the time period covered, the files appear to contain most or all of the columns that were published in the three papers. The collection also includes several folders of articles and columns from the Wall Street Journal and other business publications, especially concerning management turmoil and succession at J. Walter Thompson Company in 1987. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising, and Marketing History.
Includes a range of articles addressing upheaval at the J. Walter Thompson Company.
Includes various articles addressing the WPP takeover of the J. Walter Thompson Company.
The Sidney Ralph Bernstein Company History Files span the years 1873 to 1964, but the bulk of the material dates from 1963 to 1964. The collection consists primarily of research files containing transcripts of interviews; notes and excerpts copied from publications, facsimile copies, correspondence, and printed material; correspondence and memoranda; manuscripts; speeches; indexes; clippings; lists; and chronologies. The files were created by Sidney Ralph Bernstein and Marianne Keating, his research assistant, for a commemorative history of the J. Walter Thompson Company at the time of its centennial anniversary. The history was not published. The collection documents the history of J. Walter Thompson Company, especially through personal reminiscences, recollections, and evaluations of the company by its executives and other employees; advertising executives; women in the advertising industry; and J. Walter Thompson, founder of the company.
The Correspondence Series documents the planning phases of the project and the selection of Sidney Ralph Bernstein from a pool of prospective authors. Company executive Milton Moskowitz was primarily responsible for arranging the project but the Executive Committee approved all aspects of it. Bernstein's and Keating's research activities are described throughout the series. The correspondence includes biographical material about various company leaders, including William James Carlton and Stanley B. Resor, and information about the 1918 tax law case against the J. Walter Thompson Company.
A substantial part of the project included interviewing company employees about their personal experiences and about clients. The transcripts of the interviews are in the Oral Interview Transcripts Series. Most of the interviews were indexed and provide access to four areas of information: Agencies and associations, accounts, personalities, and selected topics.
The Biographical Files Series has varying quantities of information about officers and staff, some derived from printed sources and some from personal narratives. Most of the files contain information about more than one executive or staff member since, in many of the narratives, subjects discuss other employees. The International Office Series also contains personal narratives about office histories, chronologies, and client relations. Subjects in the Client Files Series that have the most documentation include Chesebrough-Pond's, Eastman Kodak Company, Kraft Foods Company, Pan American World Airways, and Scott Paper Company.
The topical files in the J. Walter Thompson Company Study, Working Files Series comprise a collection of information on various topics, most of which was created by the J. Walter Thompson Company agency or its executives. The Chapter Files Series includes genealogical information about Mr. J. Walter Thompson and his family. Most of the files in the Chapter Files Series are collections of research material to be used in the manuscript; there are no chapter manuscripts in the series.
Includes correspondence, memoranda, and manuscript drafts. Arranged chronologically.
Contains correspondence, notes, resumes, clippings, transcripts of interviews, excerpts, and essays. See also oversize. Arranged alphabetically by the names of the subjects, with a miscellaneous folder at the end.
Includes interview transcripts, historical essays and chronologies, correspondence and memoranda, notes, and lists. Arranged with an information file at the beginning; followed by files for various countries, arranged alphabetically by the name of the country.
Includes clippings, notes, correspondence and memoranda, lists, printed material, negatives, speeches, house organs, and advertisements. See also oversize. Arranged alphabetically by the clients' names.
Consists of speeches; commentaries; notes; and excerpts copied from correspondence, speeches, business files, and publications. Files retain Bernstein's original order and folder titles; information in brackets added for clarification Arranged by file numbers assigned by Bernstein.
Includes notes, excerpts, clippings, lists, correspondence, memoranda, house organs, speeches, and writings. Files retain Bernstein's original order and folder titles; information in brackets added for clarification. Arranged alphabetically by folder titles.
Includes clippings, excerpts, memoranda, lists, manuscripts, and notes. Files retain Bernstein's original order and folder titles. See also oversize. Arranged with a report on all departments first, then alphabetically by department name.
Includes correspondence, memoranda, clippings, excerpts, reports, legal papers, research papers, interviews, indexes to chapters, and notes. Dates in parentheses are time spans covered in the chapters. Arranged by numbers assigned to files by Bernstein.
Contains the project manuscript. Arranged by chapter numbers.
Consists of memoranda, correspondence, legal agreements and other printed materials. Companies represented include American Gas Association, Ford, Kodak, Kraft, Pan Am, and R.T. French. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Includes correspondence and other printed materials, proofs and tear sheets, slides and videocassettes. Companies represented include Eaton, Irving Trust, Mellon Bank, New York Stock Exchange and Transamerica. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Bill Demby; Mary Brodie; Hot Work; Applause
Playground; Vidalia; Kindercare; Sign
Prepared for ANA Corporate Advertising Workshop, Thomas Garbett
G. Glassman: Champion; Boeing; Johnson Controls
ANA Corporate Workshop, Thomas Garbett
Prepared for ANA, Thomas Garbett
Thomas Garbett, edited version of Kaleidescope
Prologue; Quality of Worklife; New Engine; Auburn Hills; 10 Cars; Safety; New Methods; Epilogue; Kennedy Center Closing Billboards
Coca-Cola; General Electric; IBM; Dow; DuPont; Xerox
NEC; DuPont; General Electric; BASF; Chevron; ADM; PM; IBM; Xerox; Dow
ADM; International Paper; TRW; Microsoft
Consists mainly of internal and trade research and subject reports. Topics covered include Broadcast and cable television, general marketing and market research, magazines, out of home media. Market research firms represented include Daniel Starch, Gallup, Marketing Science Institute, Nielsen, Roper and Yankelovich. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
This collection (94-110) (27,000 items, 50 linear feet, dated 1908-1989) consists mostly of vertical files, including office newsletters, speeches and writings, publications, training and planning documents from Chicago and other JWT offices. There are also 78 reels of microfilm of Chicago office ads prior to 1970, as well as significant collections of proof files especially pertaining to major clients like Kraft, Quaker Oats, and Schlitz. In addition, the collection holds several hundred "Aber Reports" dating between 1950-1971, which were market research summations of various product categories. A container list for this accession follows below.
Subsequent additions (96-169, 99-130, 99-239) (8514 items; dated 1970-1998) contain an item-level index to the massive library of research reports maintained by JWT's Chicago Office. Materials are arranged in alphabetical order; the largest alphabetical run is by company name. There are also cards for X and AV reports, general research reports, and an index to JWT People Profiles. Also included are printed proceedings from international symposia on magazine readership research for 1981, 1983, 1985, 1988, and 1991, including copies of some of the previously unpublished papers and related printed material (1998). These materials reveal the lengths to which advertisers go to gain insight into consumer thinking. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising and Marketing History. A container list for accession 99-130 follows below.
Addition (01-110) (70 items, .2 lin. ft.; dated [1980s]) consists of about 70 color slides depicting people, events, and locations within the company's Chicago offices.
Addition (02-0188) (397 items, 8.7 linear feet; dated 1980-2000 and undated) comprises primarily information on and examples of Thompson Total Branding (TTB), including in the US, England, Jamaica, and Asia. TTB began in 1996 and is JWT's method for addressing client marketing needs. Also includes copies of earlier methodologies, the T-Plan and Thompson Way; employee manuals; training material; J. Walter University intern/trainee manual (2000); information about the Lintas, McCann-Erickson, and Ogilvy and Mather agencies; material from JWT's World Partners Council meetings (Italy, 1995; Mexico, 1997) and marketing seminars held in the agency's Asia-Pacific region; six 3/4" U-matic SP and 11 VHS videocassettes, mainly of presentations and training material (1980s-1990s); 1 audiocassette; 47 color slides; and 208 electronic documents on 2 CD-ROMs. A container list for this accession follows below.
Several accessions of the JWT Chicago Office Records were completely or partially deaccessioned at the request of the JWT Chicago and returned to the JWT Record Center. These involved proprietary research in which the clients still retained an interest. The accessions involved were: 95-016 (10 boxes); 95-015 (7 boxes); 95-018 (2 boxes); 95-017 (1 box); and 99-0130 (28 boxes). For further information, contact Research Services.
[Research reports on product categories, evidently named for a chief author, Caroline E. Aber]
[Now produced by the JWT Reference Unit]
[Compiled by Bryan Way]
[Includes Cable Capsules, and Network Notes (Chicago)]
[Mostly by N. Strouse and A. Johnson]
[Includes clippings about JWT and JWT personnel]
[Includes Packaging, mechanicals, layouts and oversize]
[Includes records and contents of Chicago proof books; detailed lists of items filmed in reels AD1-AD78. Also includes some promotional materials, such as coupons for Kraft products.]
[Includes images of ads from Chicago proof books from the early 1900s on for multiple clients. Arranged by client/date per books. Also a binder relating to the records center storage of profs in the 1980s.]
[Includes, New York, San Francisco, Australia, Belgium, Germany, India, London, and others; miscellaneous newsletters]
[Includes data and plan forms for advertising; files on Chicago office seminars [1970s]; TGI materials]
[Includes Chicago office files; Communispond; Consumer Panel; Deltakos and other subsidiaries; financial records; compensation]
[JWT London, BMRB, South Africa]
[Includes research materials, ca. 1950s-1960s]
[Includes trade, newsprint, outdoor, and consumer advertisements]
[3 proof boxes]
[2 books in a proof box]
[3 proof books]
[3 proof boxes]
Consists primarily of clippings obtained from a selection of nationally distributed magazines and newspapers, representing print advertising campaigns of JWT client competitors, although some of JWT's own clients are represented, such as Ford and Kraft. Major product categories include clothing, business services, food and beverages, cosmetics and perfumes, over-the-counter medications, household appliances, automobiles, aircraft and airlines, cruise ships, and hotels and resorts. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
The papers of Colin Dawkins, a former Vice President of the J. Walter Thompson (JWT) advertising agency, span the years 1776 to 1986 with the bulk of the papers being dated between 1920 and 1981. The collection consists of Dawkins's research files, gathered for a proposed book on the history of the advertising business as it paralleled and was influenced by the growth and international development of JWT. These files contain correspondence, printed materials (including JWT newsletters), articles, clippings, speeches, writings, advertisements, reports, oral interview transcripts and cassette tapes. Clients represented in this collection include primarily the Ford Motor Company but also Kraft, Chesebrough-Ponds, Pan American, and Lever Brothers, and JWT executives represented include James Walter Thompson, Stanley Resor, Howard Kohl, Sam Meek, Helen Lansdowne Resor, Edward G. Wilson, Shirley Woodell, James Webb Young, and Dan Seymour. Much of the collection duplicates material found elsewhere in the extensive J. Walter Thompson Company Archives and many items are photocopies; however, the collection does contain unique material specifically in the Oral Interview Series and items thoughout the collection which Colin Dawkins collected.
In October 1978, Dawkins began his advertising history project. During the next two years, he wrote to “JWT vets” requesting information about people and places, letters and memos, excerpts from speeches, artifacts, advertisements, pictures, and information on JWT offices.
The Officers and Staff Series contains information by and about key personalities who contributed to the development of the J. Walter Thompson Company. The JWT employees represent the majority of the company's departments: broadcast, research, creative, international, publicity and public relations, and the executive administration. Especially well-documented individuals include Gelston Hardy, Kennett Hinks, Howard Kohl, Sam Meek, John Monsarrat, Helen Lansdowne Resor, Stanley Resor, Dan Seymour, Norman H. Strouse, James Walter Thompson, Edward G. Wilson, Shirley Woodell, and James Webb Young.
The Clients Series consists of background information on a limited number of major and minor JWT clients, including Kraft, Pan American, Chesebrough-Ponds, Lever Brothers, and Ford Motor Company. Dawkins worked for many years on the Ford account, for which there is extensive information in this series. The Ford files document the 1957 “Around the World” campaign, international campaigns, background information on campaigns for Mustang and Maverick models, the history of JWT's relationship with Ford, presentations made to Ford, and Ford firsts in advertising.
The Alphabetical Files Series is the largest series in the collection. The majority of information focuses on JWT through short company histories, the establishment and growth of departments (such as Broadcast and Radio), and both domestic and international offices, especially New York and London. The Alphabetical Files Series also documents JWT's innovations in the advertising business in the use of market research, testimonials, and women's perspective in advertising. The series contains some information about other advertising agencies in particular Batten, Barton, Durstine, Osborn; Lord & Thomas; Foote, Cone & Belding; and N. W. Ayer. Other topics in this series include general advertising history and economic comparisons of advertising agencies. Dawkins's research notes and correspondence files he kept for his advertising history project are in this series also.
Dawkins travelled to visit key officers and staff members and recorded and transcribed their conversations. The cassettes and transcripts from these interviews are in the Oral Interview Series in both the Audio Subseries and the Transcripts Subseries. They provide personal insights into the history of the J. Walter Thompson Company.
After three years of researching, Dawkins set out to write a history of advertising focussing on the J. Walter Thompson Company. The resulting text, entitled “Ain't It Hell On A Windy Day” was not published. The manuscript copy is in the Writings Series and is CLOSED except to the members of the J. Walter Thompson Company.
The Advertisements Series is filed with the Oversize Material and contains the advertisements associated with specific Officers and Staff, Clients, and files in the Alphabetical Files. Also in this series are advertisements from Dawkins's Advertisement Portfolio.
Includes correspondence, biographical information, clippings, notes, photographs, and articles about or by JWT staff members. Employees represented are primarily from the U. S. offices; however, William Hinks, Douglas Saunders, and Rae Smith are from the London office, and the James Hamilton Russell and Timothy Hamilton Russell files contain information about the South Africa office.
Contains printed materials, correspondence, articles, clippings, press releases, and account histories of JWT clients that Dawkins researched for his book.
Consists of articles, clippings, printed materials, chronologies, notes and excerpts from publications, correspondence, writings, and speeches. In this series exists a unique history of JWT's offices in Spain.
Consists of interviews conducted by Dawkins either in person or over the telephone. Don Johnston's interview was conducted by others in Bombay, India and there are two interviews with Louise Fox Connell, one by Dawkins and another by Rosamond Hartshorn in 1977. Some files contain multiple transcripts that are annotated by the interviewee.
Consists of a recording tape and cassette tapes of Dawkins's notes and interviews he conducted for his book.
Contains several drafts of sections and sidebars for Dawkins's book. Also has two smaller drafts of manuscripts Dawkins wrote using the materials found in this collection.
The Diamond Information Center Vertical File spans the years from the 1930s to the 1980s and is chiefly an informational file of printed materials. The file was originally created when the N.W. Ayers advertising agency handled the De Beers account. The vertical file was transferred to JWT along with the account. JWT currently handles the advertising for De Beers diamonds.
The file is organized into numbered, topical sections that cover a broad range of subjects relating to diamonds, the diamond industry, and the fashion design industry. The numbered subjects reflect the original classification schema used by the Diamond Information Center. Some high-level subjects have been added to improve readability; these have been inserted within brackets, and follow the numerical pattern previously established by the Center. Topics include: famous diamonds; the annual Diamond International Awards; diamonds, diamond mining and trade in Africa (especially Angola and South Africa), Brazil, India, Russia and the United States; the analysis, classification, grading and cutting of gem-quality and industrial diamonds; public and private collectors, collections and exhibitions of diamonds, gems, precious stones and jewelry, including the crown jewels of European (particularly Great Britain), Russian and Indian monarchies; the history, advertising and marketing of diamonds, gems, precious stones and jewelry; the manufacture and mechanical properties of artificial diamonds and other artificial precious stones; and the history, cultural and social aspects of the clothing and fashion design industry, with folders on individual designers, merchandisers, and fashion shows.
See ARCOTS under A's; See WESTMINSTER tiara behind the TIARA folder in JEWELRY
Note: Diamonds International Awards material continues in Box 32.
The Domestic Advertisements Collection consists of print advertisements created by U.S. offices of the J. Walter Thompson Company (JWT). The bulk of the collection dates from the 1920s and after, but a few examples are available from as early as 1875. Print advertisements appear in a variety of formats--magazine, newspaper, color, black-and-white, proofs, tearsheets, negative transfers, clippings, along with a limited number of sketches for outdoor advertising installations. Some of the advertisements feature work from notable artists, such as Norman Rockwell, and photographers like Edward Steichen, Irving Penn, and Baron De Meyer. In addition to the actual advertisements, the files dating from the 1910s to 1950s often contain insertion schedules that provide the dates and names of the magazines or newspapers in which a given advertisement appeared. In general, proofs for JWT's long-time clients have been saved more systematically than those for accounts that JWT did not hold for a long time. The collection does not include advertisements which have been transferred to microfilm (see the JWT Microfilm Collection). Also, advertisements created for clients that JWT lost prior to the 1940s are less likely to have been saved, although some were microfilmed and are still available in that form. For some JWT clients there are no print advertisements at all in this collection. Among the most extensive files of print advertisements are those for the following JWT clients: Champion Spark Plug, Chesebrough-Ponds, Eastman Kodak (Instamatic, Pocket Instamatic, and Disc cameras, Kodak film), Ford Motor Company (consumer and dealer advertisements), R.T. French, Irving Trust Bank, J. Walter Thompson Company (house advertisements), Kraft Foods (including Kraft cheeses, Miracle Whip, Philadelphia Cream Cheese, and Velveeta), Lever Brothers (Lifebuoy, Lux, Close Up, Mrs. Butterworth), Pan American World Airways (passenger jet travel, cargo transportation), Radio Corporation of America (RCA) (RCA Victor recordings, consumer goods, National Broadcasting Company), Reader's Digest, Scott Paper, Seven-Up, Standard Brands (Chase and Sandborn, Fleischmann, Royal, Tenderleaf tea), and Warner-Lambert (primarily Listerine, including advertisements produced by the Lambert and Feasley agency).
The Collection is organized into three series--Main Files, Small Files, and Oversize Materials--that reflect both the size of the holdings for each client as well as the physical location of the advertisements. Within each series, clients are arranged alphabetically and then the advertisements are arranged chronologically. The Main File Series includes clients for which at least one box have been preserved. A separate Small Files Series is maintained for clients for which less than one box of advertisements, and often much less, has survived. The Oversize Materials Series includes many of the clients found in both the Main and Small Files Series.
The collection is continued by the J. Walter Thompson Company. Domestic advertisements, part 2.
Chesebrough Ponds, 1875-1968. Proofs from the 1920s to 1950s feature testimonial advertising for Pond's Cold Cream. Noted socialites endorsing the product were photographed by well known photographers, including Edward J. Steichen and Baron DeMeyer.
Eastman Kodak Company, 1930-present. Organized into two categories--Consumer and Trade advertisements--that correspond to Kodak's two major marketing areas. Consumer advertisements feature photographs by well known photographers, famous slogans and trademarks, and depict the American family over several decades in settings where the cameras are used. Introductions of new camera models are well represented, including the Instamatic in 1963, the Pocket Instamatic in 1972, the Instant camera in 1975, and the Disc camera in 1982. At different times JWT handled both film and cameras (still and/or movie) or just Kodak films. Trade advertisements include campaigns for medical and industrial films, Kodel fibers, and Eastman Chemical, as well as advertisements aimed at Kodak dealers. Additional Kodak advertising may be found in the Wayne P. Ellis Collection of Kodakiana.
Ford Motor Company, 1945-present. Key campaigns include There's a Ford in Your Future (1945-1948), the Peanuts campaign (1960-1962) and the launch of the Mustang (1964). In addition to print advertisements showing the introduction of new models, photostats of outdoor billboards in the 1940s and early 1950s are included. Truck and dealer advertising can also be found. A separate collection, the JWT Detroit Office's Ford Collateral Literature, houses showroom brochures, and diverse sales materials in many formats.
Irving Trust, 1918-1986. Fine line drawings, often of New York City locales, appear in 1920s newspaper advertisements.
J. Walter Thompson Co., 1917-present. These house advertisements are an important source of information about the Company's operations and philosophy.
Kraft Foods Corporation, 1922-present. Advertisements for products including Miracle Whip, Velveeta, Philadelphia Cream Cheese, other cheeses, salad dressings, etc. and a number of lesser-known early products are present. Includes many advertisements with recipes and many trade advertisements directed at grocers.
Lever Brothers, 1900-present. The earliest advertisements are for Lifebuoy Soap. J. Walter Thompson Co. introduced Lux Flakes in 1915 and Lux Toilet Soap in 1925. The early Lux Flakes advertisements employed the talents of fine illustrators. Comic style advertising appeared in the 1930s (Peggy Lux and others). The Lux Toilet Soap campaigns began featuring movie and stage star testimonials in 1927. One noteworthy campaign dates from 1953-1954 when Irving Penn photographed some of Hollywood's most famous stars. The Lever Brothers advertisements for both Lux products also include photographs of car cards (subway and bus posters) from the 1920s. Other Lever products represented in the collection include Stripe and Close Up toothpastes, Mrs. Butterworth syrup, and Lever 2000 bath soap.
Massachusetts Mutual Insurance Company, 1951-1967. Although few in number, many of the advertisements contain Norman Rockwell illustrations. The original art work has been retained by the client.
Pan American World Airways, 1942-1974. Contains advertisements prepared for both U.S. and international consumers and includes the introduction of jet passenger travel. Cargo advertising also can be found.
RCA (Radio Corporation of America), 1943-1976. In addition to consumer products, advertisements for the National Broadcasting Company (NBC) programs can be found in this group.
Reader's Digest, 1945-present. Many of the advertisements since the 1960s highlight articles appearing in the current month's issue. Examples of corporate advertising for international editions of Reader's Digest are also present.
Scott Paper Co., 1927-1983. Numerous product introductions are represented.
Seven-Up, 1944-1978. Shows the changes in positioning this beverage from a family drink to Wet 'n' Wild to the Un-Cola.
Standard Brands, 1925-1984. Advertisements cover a range of products, including Fleischmann's Yeast, Chase and Sanborn, Tenderleaf Tea, and Royal Pudding and Gelatin.
Warner-Lambert, 1915-1997. Advertisements consist primarily of proofs and tearsheets. There are no advertisements present for the years 1945-1947 or 1949. The vast majority of the advertisements are for Listerine Antiseptic, with other products represented beginning in the late 1960s. Listerine was manufactured by the Lambert Pharmacal Company beginning around 1915. William Warner acquired the company in 1955, merged it into his own pharmaceutical business and changed the name to the Warner-Lambert Co.
Warner-Lambert is the only client file in this collection that includes the work of an agency other than JWT. Until 1962, Listerine advertising was handled by the Lambert and Feasley agency in New York, the house agency for the Lambert Pharmacal Co. (St. Louis) up to 1955, and for its successor the Warner-Lambert Co. (Morris Plains, N.J.), from 1955-1962. When JWT obtained the Listerine account in October 1962, the back files of Listerine advertisements were transferred to JWT.
Includes clients for which at least one box (usually at least 100 advertisements) have been preserved. A few files contain photocopies or prints made from microfilm, a fact which is noted in the list. Parenthetical identification of the client or product or the JWT office or division responsible for the ad has been added in some cases. The files are arranged alphabetically by client (not product), insofar as it has been possible to determine the client name accurately and as it was known during the relationship with JWT (hence, Lever Brothers in lieu of Unilever). The files are then arranged chronologically within client groupings.
The main clients in this series include Chesebrough Ponds, Eastman Kodak Company, Ford Motor Company, Irving Trust Bank, J. Walter Thompson Co., Kraft Foods Corporation, Lever Brothers, Massachusetts Mutual Insurance Company, Pan-American Airlines , RCA (Radio Corporation of America), Reader's Digest, Scott Paper Co., Seven-Up, Standard Brands, and Warner-Lambert. The clients in this series are NOT represented in the Small Files Series but MAY have advertisements in the Oversize Series.
Advertisements for Ad Council as the client.
[See also Oversize Folder 1.]
[See also Oversize Folder 4.]
[See also Oversize Folder 6.]
[See also Oversize Box OV3.]
[See also Oversize Folder 36.]
[See also Oversize Box OV1.]
[See also Oversize Box OV1.]
[See also Oversize Box OV2.]
[See also Oversize Box OV2.]
Formerly Health and Tennis Corp. of America; includes Vic Tanny, Richard Simmons, Chicago Health and Raquetball.
[See also Oversize Box 18, Oversize Folder 21.]
[See also Oversize Folder 5.]
[See also Oversize Box OV2.]
[See also Oversize Box OV2.]
[See also Oversize Box OV2.]
[See also Oversize Box OV2; Oversize Folder 7.]
[See also Oversize Box OV2.]
[See also Oversize Folder 10.]
Proofs from the 1920s to 1950s feature testimonial advertising for Pond's Cold Cream. Noted socialites endorsing the product were photographed by well known photographers including Edward J. Steichen and Baron De Meyer.
[See also Oversize Box OV2; Oversize Folder 11.]
[See also Oversize Box OV3.]
[See also Oversize Box OV3; Oversize Folder 12.]
[See also Oversize Box OV3.]
Organized into two categories--Consumer and Trade advertisements--that correspond to Kodak's two major marketing areas. Consumer advertisements feature photographs by well known photographers, famous slogans and trademarks, and depict the American family over several decades in settings where the cameras are used. Introductions of new camera models are well represented, including the Instamatic in 1963, the Pocket Instamatic in 1972, the Instant camera in 1975, and the Disc camera in 1982. At different times JWT handled both film and cameras (still and/or movie) or just Kodak films. Trade advertisements include campaigns for medical and industrial films, Kodel fibers, and Eastman Chemical, as well as advertisements aimed at Kodak dealers.
Eastman Kodak advertising is also represented in various other collections: JWT Account Files (includes films and videos plus account information); Wayne P. Ellis Collection of Kodakiana
[See also Oversize Box OV3.]
Reader's Digest inserts in multiple languages.
Includes Instamatic cameras.
Includes home movie cameras, projectors, Instamatic.
Including Spanish-language advertisements.
Including Spanish-language advertisements.
Introducing the Disc camera.
This category provides extensive documentation of the trade oriented advertisements from the Eastman Kodak Company from 1931-1990. Although formal division titles changed slightly throughout the company's history, general markets consistently advertised include:
Medical, including dental and radiography; chemical, including chemicals, plastics, and cellulose divisions; business reproductions, including Recordak; Tennessee Eastman, including Eastman Chemicals and Eastman Fibers (Kodel); industrial photography, including engineering and functional photography; motion pictures; business premiums; and pharmaceutical trade, probably the least represented.
International advertisements may be found as early as 1961 randomly included and continuing throughout the collection for various years. The majority of advertisements are proofs; very few tearsheets appear. Prior to the 1960s, the physical condition of the advertisements varies from poor to good with many advertisements still attached to black scrapbook paper. The remaining advertisements were not initially stored in the scrapbooks; therefore, they range from good to very good physical condition. The quantity for any given year varies somewhat; however, the following years have a minimal number of advertisements: 1966-1967, 1970, 1972-1973.
[See also Oversize Box OV4.]
Includes Eastman acetate yarn (Teca)
Includes Eastman acetate sheets, Kodapak.
Includes Business Photo Methods Division-Verifax, Graphic Reproduction Division-Kodagraph reproduction materials.
Includes Spanish-language advertisements.
Includes Kodagraph, Extalith, Kodastar.
Includes Plastic Sheeting Division (Uvex, Kodar), Eastman Chemical Products (Baler Twine).
Includes Eastman Ektachrome film.
Includes Kodak microfilm systems, Kodagraph film.
Including Graphics Markets Division.
Includes Business imaging systems, computer printers.
[See also Oversize Box OV4.]
[See also Oversize Box OV4.]
[See also Oversize Box OV4.]
[See also Oversize Box OV4.]
For related materials see the J. Walter Thompson Co. Detroit Office, Detroit Office Records; Ford Dealer Association Records; Ford Collateral Literature.
Part of accession 04-0010.
Key campaigns include There's a Ford in Your Future (1945-1948), the Peanuts campaign (1960-1962) and the launch of the Mustang (1964). In addition to print advertisements showing the introduction of new models, photostats of outdoor billboards in the 1940s and early 1950s are included. Truck and dealer advertising can also be found throughout the years.
Additional information and documentation for the Ford account may be found in other collections including: JWT Co. Newsletters, Winfield Taylor Papers, Norman Strouse Papers (a small collection), Legal and Financial Documents, and Writings and Speeches. The Ford Collateral Literature files include showroom brochures, and diverse sales materials in many formats
Folders marked cars do not include any model that has its own folder for a particular year. Cars include station wagons and minivans. Aerostar is a minivan after 1986.
Folders marked trucks include all truck sizes unless there is a folder specifically for medium/heavy duty trucks, in which case the trucks folder would contain light trucks (Ranger, F series, etc. pickups). Bronco is classified as both a truck (1966-1989) and an SUV (1990-).
Vans includes RVs, conversion and 15 passenger vans, but not minivans.
Throughout this list, General folders refers to car advertising for Ford cars in general or more than one model in a given ad.
[See also Oversize Boxes OV5-OV16; Oversize Folders 17-19.]
These 1980 folders may include advertisements for 1980 models which were actually produced in 1979.
[See also Oversize Folder 20.]
[See also Oversize Folder 20.]
[See also Oversize Folder 21.]
[See also Oversize Box OV17.]
For related materials see the J. Walter Thompson Co. Chicago Office, Hyatt Hotels Corp. Account Files.
[See also Oversize Box OV18.]
[See also Oversize Box OV18.]
[See also Oversize Box OV18.]
Fine line drawings, often of New York City locales, appear in the newspaper advertisements of the 1920s.
[See also Oversize Box OV18; Oversize Folder 22.]
[See also Oversize Box OV19.]
[See also Oversize Folder 23.]
House advertisements are an important source of information about company operations and philosophy.
[See also Oversize Box OV19; Oversize Folders 24-25.]
[See also Oversize Box OV19.]
[See also Oversize Box OV19.]
[See also Oversize Box OV19.]
Advertisements for products including Miracle Whip, Velveeta, Philadelphia Cream Cheese, other cheeses, salad dressings, etc. and a number of lesser-known early products are present. Includes many advertisements with recipes and many trade advertisements directed at grocers.
[See also Oversize Box OV19; Oversize Folders 26-28.]
Includes 1930s brands: Gelfand, Henard, Easton, Wright.
Includes 1930s brands: Gelfand, Henard, Easton, Wright.
Includes Cheddar, Swiss Colby, Old English, Monterey Jack, Light'n Lively.
Includes wartime advertisements.
Includes publications: Culinary Exchange, Vendkraft, Entrees, Food Kraft, Holiday, Menu Merchandizer.
Includes portion control packs.
Includes America's Jr. Miss program.
Includes Spanish, French, Hebrew, and German-language advertisements.
Includes billboards and bus cards, caramels, Cheese Festival, cheese spreads, Cheez Whiz, corporate advertising, Cracker Barrel, dairy industry, dessert toppings, dips, grocery trade, Hebrew language advertisements, Kraft Cheese, Kraft Dinners, Kraft Real Mayonnaise, marshmallows, Natural Cheese, Parkay margarine, Philadelphia cream cheese, powdered milk, radio/television, sandwich spreads, soup/salad, Velveeta.
Includes cheese slices, combination cheeses, Miracle Whip, orange and citrus juices, sweepstakes.
Includes Philadelphia cream cheese and combination products.
Includes pourable salad dressings, mayonnaise.
The earliest advertisements are for Lifebuoy Soap. J. Walter Thompson Co. introduced Lux Flakes in 1915 and Lux Toilet Soap in 1925. The early Lux Flakes advertisements employed the talents of fine illustrators. Comic style advertising appeared in the 1930s (Peggy Lux and others). The Lux Toilet Soap campaigns began featuring movie and stage star testimonials in 1927. One noteworthy campaign dates from 1953-1954 when Irving Penn photographed some of Hollywood's most famous stars. The Lever Brothers advertisements for both Lux products also include photographs of car cards (subway and bus posters) from the 1920s. Other Lever Products include Stripe and Close Up toothpastes, Mrs. Butterworth syrup, and Lever 2000 bath soap.
[See also Oversize Boxes OV20-OV22; Oversize Folder 29.]
For related materials see the Liggett and Myers Collection.
[See also Oversize Box OV22; Oversize Folder 29.]
[See also Oversize Box OV22.]
[See also Oversize Box OV22; Oversize Folder 31.]
Many of the advertisements contain illustrations by Norman Rockwell.
[See also Oversize Box OV22.]
[See also Oversize Box OV23; Oversize Folder 33.]
[See also Oversize Box OV23.]
[See also Oversize Box OV23.]
[See also Oversize Box OV23.]
[See also Oversize Folder 30.]
[See also Oversize Folder 32.]
[See also Oversize Box OV23.]
Includes advertisements for SAGA, Blackgama and Canada Majestic.
[See also Oversize Box OV23.]
[See also Oversize Folder 36.]
[See also Oversize Box OV24.]
[See also Oversize Box OV24; Oversize Folder 38.]
[See also Oversize Box OV24.]
[See also Oversize Box OV24.]
[See also Oversize Box OV24; Oversize Folder 37.]
[See also Oversize Box OV24.]
[See also Oversize Box OV24.]
Contains advertisements prepared for both U.S. and international consumers and includes the introduction of jet passenger travel. Cargo advertising also can be found.
See also Oversize Folder 39.
[See also Oversize Box OV24.]
[See also Oversize Box OV24; Oversize Folder 40.]
[See also Oversize Folder 40.]
For related materials see the J. Walter Thompson Co. Chicago Office, Quaker Oats Account Files, 1945-1965.
In addition to consumer products, advertisements for NBC (The National Broadcasting Company) programs can be found in this group.
[See also Oversize Box OV25.]
Including car radios and home radios.
Many of the advertisements since the 1960s highlight articles appearing in the current month's issue. Examples of corporate advertising for international editions of Reader's Digest are also present.
[See also Oversize Box OV25.]
[See also Oversize Box OV25.]
[See also Oversize Box OV25.]
[See also Oversize Box OV25.]
[See also Oversize Box OV25.]
[See also Oversize Box OV25.]
[See also Oversize Box OV25; Oversize Folder 41.]
[See also Oversize Box OV25; Oversize Folders 41-46.]
Shows the changes in positioning this beverage from a family drink to Wet 'n' Wild to the Un-Cola.
[See also Oversize Box OV25; Oversize Folders 47-52.]
[See also Oversize Box OV25.]
[See also Oversize Box OV25.]
Advertisements cover a range of products, including Fleischmann's Yeast, Chase and Sanborn, Tenderleaf Tea, and Royal Pudding and Gelatin.
[See also Oversize Box OV26.]
[See also Oversize Box OV26; Oversize Folder 57.]
[See also Oversize Folder 34.]
[See also Oversize Folders 59-60.]
[See also Oversize Box OV27.]
[See also Oversize Box OV28.]
[See also Oversize Box OV28; Oversize Folders 61-62.]
[See also Oversize Box OV28.]
Proofs and tearsheets. There are no advertisements present for the years 1945-1947 or 1949. The vast majority of the advertisements are for Listerine Antiseptic, with other products represented beginning in the late 1960s. Listerine was manufactured by the Lambert Pharmacal Company beginning around 1915. William Warner acquired the company in 1955, merged it into his own pharmaceutical business and changed the name to the Warner-Lambert Co.
This file is the only one in the J. Walter Thompson Company Domestic Advertisements Collection that includes the work of an agency other than JWT. Until 1962, Listerine advertising was handled by the Lambert and Feasley agency in New York, the house agency for the Lambert Pharmacal Co. (St. Louis), up to 1955 and for its successor, the Warner-Lambert Co. (Morris Plains, N.J.), from 1955-1962. When JWT obtained the Listerine account in October 1962, the back files of Listerine advertisements were transferred to JWT.
[See also Oversize Box OV28.]
Includes advertisements featuring artwork of Norman Rockwell.
Includes advertisements featuring artwork of Norman Rockwell.
Includes advertisements featuring television characters Ozzie and Harriet.
Includes television commercial photoscripts.
Includes African-American-oriented campaigns.
Includes sweepstakes, youth- and African-American- oriented campaigns; Easprin Chewable Aspirin, Efferdent, Listerex Antibacterial Scrub, Listerine Breath Spray, Listerine Cold Tablets, Listerine Throat Lozenges, Listerol Disinfectant Spray.
Includes Chewels, Efferdent, Entemann's, EPT, Listermint, Lubriderm, Personal Touch, Schick, Sinutab, Tempters, Throat Lozenges.
Includes media schedule, bar graph 1925-1962, television show reviews, labels.
Includes Absorbine For Horses and Absorbine Jr.
[See also Oversize Box OV28.]
See also Channel 7 Action News in Oversice Box OV3.
Files for which only a small quantity (usually only one folder) of proofs or tearsheets has survived in the collection, mainly from the 1960s and later. A few clients are represented only by photocopies or prints made from microfilm, a fact which is noted in the list. The files are arranged alphabetically by client (not product) insofar as it has been possible to determine the client name accurately. Parenthetical information about the client, product, or the JWT office or division responsible for the ad has been added as appropriate. These clients are NOT represented in the Main Files Series but MAY have advertisements in the Oversize Series.
[See also Oversize Box OV1.]
[See also Oversize Box OV1.]
[See also Oversize Box OV1.]
[See also Oversize Box OV1.]
[See also Oversize Box OV1, Oversize Folder 3.]
[See also Oversize Box OV2.]
[See also Oversize Box OV2.]
[See also Oversize Box OV2.]
[See also Oversize Box OV2.]
[See also Oversize Box OV2; Oversize Folder 6.]
[See also Oversize Box OV2.]
[See also Oversize Box OV2.]
[See also Oversize Folder 56.]
[See also Oversize Folder 8.]
[See also Oversize Box OV2.]
[See also Oversize Box OV2; Oversize Folder 9.]
[See also Oversize Box OV2.]
[See also Oversize Box OV2.]
Includes public service television programming, Ortho.
[See also Oversize Box OV3.]
[See also Oversize Box OV3; Oversize Folder 13.]
Includes Arm and Hammer, Cow brands.
[See also Oversize Box OV3.]
Includes Puss 'n' Boots cat food, Balto dog food.
Includes Holley automotive replacement parts.
[See also Oversize Box OV3.]
[See also Oversize Box OV3.]
[See also Oversize Box OV3.]
Includes Detroit Grand Prix 3.
[See also Oversize Folder 13.]
[See also Oversize Box OV3.]
[See also Wall Street Journal, Oversize Box OV3.]
[See also Oversize Box OV3.]
[See also Oversize Box OV4.]
[See also Oversize Box OV4.]
[See also Oversize Box OV4.]
[See also Oversize Box OV4.]
[See also Oversize Box OV4.]
[See also Oversize Box OV4.]
[See also Oversize Box OV17.]
[See also Oversize Box OV17.]
[See also Oversize Box OV17.]
[See also Oversize Box OV17.]
[See also Oversize Box OV17.]
[See also Oversize Box OV17.]
[See also Oversize Box OV18.]
[See also Oversize Folder 21.]
[See also Oversize Box OV18.]
[See also Oversize Box OV18.]
[See also Oversize Box OV18.]
[See also Oversize Box OV18.]
[See also Oversize Box OV18.]
[See also Oversize Box OV18.]
[See also Oversize Box OV18.]
[See also Oversize Box OV19.]
[See also Oversize Box OV19.]
[See also Oversize Box OV19.]
[See also Oversize Box OV19.]
[See also Oversize Box OV19.]
[See also Oversize Box OV19.]
[See also Oversize Box OV19.]
[See also Oversize Box OV22.]
[See also Oversize Box OV22.]
[See also Oversize Box OV22.]
[See also Oversize Folder 31.]
[See also Oversize Box OV22.]
[See also Oversize Box OV23.]
[See also Oversize Box OV23.]
[See also Oversize Box OV23.]
[See also Oversize Box OV23.]
[See also Oversize Folder 34.]
[See also Oversize Box OV23.]
[See also Oversize Folder 34.]
[See also Oversize Folder 35.]
[See also Oversize Box OV23.]
[See also Oversize Folder 36.]
[See also Oversize Folder 36.]
[See also Oversize Box OV24; Oversize Folder 36.]
[See also Oversize Box OV24.]
[See also Oversize Box OV24.]
[See also Oversize Box OV24.]
[See also Oversize Box OV24.]
[See also Oversize Box OV24.]
Includes Marathon Le Tourneau; for Marathon Carey-McFall Co. (Bali blinds) see Carey McFall (Small Files Series)
[See also Oversize Box OV25.]
[See also Oversize Box OV25.]
[See also Oversize Box OV25.]
[See also Oversize Box OV25.]
[See also Oversize Box OV25.]
[See also Oversize Box OV25.]
[See also Oversize Box OV25.]
[See also Oversize Box OV25.]
[See also Oversize Box OV25; Oversize Folder 40.]
[See also Oversize Box OV25.]
[See also Oversize Box OV25.]
[See also Oversize Box OV25.]
[See also Oversize Box OV25.]
[See also Oversize Box OV25.]
[See also Oversize Folder 53.]
[See also Oversize Box OV25.]
[See also Oversize Box OV25.]
[See also Oversize Box OV25.]
[See also Oversize Box OV26.]
[See also Oversize Box OV26.]
[See also Oversize Box OV26.]
[See also Oversize Box OV26; Oversize Folders 54-55.]
[See also Oversize Box OV26.]
[See also Oversize Box OV26.]
[See also Oversize Folder 57.]
[See also Oversize Box OV26.]
[See also Oversize Box OV26.]
[See also Oversize Box OV26.]
[See also Oversize Folder 58.]
[See also Oversize Folder 59.]
[See also Oversize Box OV27; Oversize Folder 53.]
[See also Oversize Box OV27.]
[See also Dow Jones folder.]
[See also Oversize Box OV28.]
[See also Oversize Box OV28.]
[See also Oversize Folder 3.]
Includes newspaper adsvertisement with slogan A Skin You Love to Touch.
[See also Oversize Folder 6.]
[See also Oversize Folder 6; Oversize Folder 6.]
[See also Oversize Folder 7.]
[See also Oversize Folder 9.]
[See also WXYZ]
[See also Oversize Folder 11.]
[See also Oversize Folder 12.]
[See also Oversize Folder 13.]
[See also Oversize Folder 15; Oversize Folder 15.]
[See also Oversize Folder 16; Oversize Folder 16.]
[See also Oversize Folders 17-19.]
Includes Army and Air Force Exchange Services-AAFES.
[See also Oversize Folder 20.]
[See also Oversize Folder 21.]
[See also Bally Manufacturing; Oversize Folder 21A.]
[See also Oversize Folder 22.]
[See also Oversize Folder 24-26.]
[See also Oversize Folders 26-28.]
[See also Oversize Folder 29.]
[See also Oversize Folder 29.]
[See also Oversize Folder 29.]
[See also Oversize Folder 31.]
[See also Oversize Folder 32.]
[See also Oversize Folder 33.]
[See also Oversize Folder 34.]
[See also Oversize Folder 35.]
[See also Oversize Folder 36.]
[See also Oversize Folder 37.]
[See also Oversize Folder 38.]
[See also Oversize Folder 37.]
[See also Oversize Folder 40.]
[See also Oversize Folder 40.]
[See also Oversize Folder 41.]
[See also Oversize Folders 42-46.]
[See also Oversize Folders 47-52.]
[See also Oversize Folders 54-55.]
[See also Oversize Folder 57; Oversize Folder 57.]
[See also Oversize Folder 57.]
[See also Oversize Folder 59.]
[See also Oversize Folders 59-60.]
[See also Oversize Folder 53.]
[See also Oversize Folders 61-62.]
Includes advertisements featuring artwork of Norman Rockwell.
[See also Bally Manufacturing Corp.]
Includes advertisements featuring artwork of Norman Rockwell.
The Harry Clark Papers cover the years 1945-1992, with the bulk of materials dating from the 1970s, the period during which Clark served as Director of the JWT Frankfurt Office, and during 1984-1986, when he served as Director of JWT in New York. The collection primarily consists of correspondence, administrative forms, presentations, speeches, meeting files, proofs, and financial reports, with extensive records from the Frankfurt Office. The collection also includes agency slide presentations, tear sheets, as well as photographs and other memorabilia of advertising events. Companies represented include Braun, Chevron, De Beers, Eastman Kodak Company, Kellogg Company, Pan American Airways, PepsiCo, Rustenburg Platinum Mines, and Unilever. Correspondence and other items exist in several languages and have not been translated into English.
Includes administrative forms, personnel lists, financial records, and other files related primarily to the running of JWT's U.S. offices. Original folder titles were maintained and items were arranged alphabetically.
Includes typed and handwritten, correspondence, telexes, notes, contracts, marketing plans, memoranda, presentations, promotional materials, reports, and research concerning the domestic and international accounts with which Clark was involved. Original folder titles were maintained and items were arranged alphabetically by client.
[Some items removed to Oversize Materials.]
[Some items removed to Oversize Materials.]
[Some items removed to Oversize Materials.]
Comprised of correspondence primarily between Harry Clark and other JWT employees, as well as Clark's communications with charitable and other organizations. Also contains interoffice communications such as notes, memoranda, and reports, as well as some personal correspondence. Some of the correspondence arrived grouped in Chronological Books ordered by date; these groupings were maintained. Original folder titles were maintained and items were arranged alphabetically.
[Includes reports: JWT-Unilever Worldwide Billings, Costs and Profits; Status of Commercial Radio Around the World.]
Includes material relating to Harry Clark's career at the J. Walter Thompson GmbH advertising agency while he was Managing Director of the Frankfurt, Germany office, 1970-1973. The papers document Clark's work with major clients at JWT's Frankfurt office. The materials primarily concern his work with international clients such as De Beers, Pan American, and Unilever, and provides insight into the close coordination and cooperation among JWT's international offices when working with such clients. The papers consist of correspondence, telexes, memoranda, notes, reports, photoboards, advertisements, photographs, clippings, and printed materials. Clients of the company represented in the collection include Braun, De Beers, Glücksklee, S.C. Johnson, Kellogg, Pan Am, and Unilever. Correspondents include clients such as Burda Du Pont, Eilebrecht, Ford, Maggi, Pan Am, and Wick Pharma; other JWT Offices; and JWT executives including Don Johnston, Peter Durham, and Myron R. May. The majority the collection (approximately 70%) is in English, and the remainder is in German.
For related material, see the papers of other Frankfurt office executives, Frankfurt print advertisements, and the Frankfurt video collection.
Documents Clark's day-to-day work for his clients; the development of campaigns and the production of advertisements; campaign presentations; and marketing schemes used by the Frankfurt office. Clark supervised the accounts for Braun, De Beers, Glücksklee, S.C. Johnson, Kellogg, Pan Am, and Unilever. From 1971-1973, the series contains detailed information about JWT Frankfurt's work for these clients. Included is the correspondence with clients, JWT Frankfurt's budget and campaign planning including scripts and layouts, Clark's attendance at client conferences, and his communication with other JWT Offices on behalf of these accounts. The Pan Am files reveal some of the particular German sensitivities in the advertising market (such as the 1972 Luxembourg advertisement). Almost half of this series concerns Clark's work for several Unilever accounts. Under the heading Unilever, insight is provided into his efforts for various Elida Gibbs and Lever-Sunlight products (Elidor, Harmony, Gloria, Es wirkt, Mentadent C, and Pepsodent).
Consists of both internal and external correspondence. The internal correspondence documents the flow of information from the executive level to the staff level (Haus-Mitteilungen), and provides insight into the daily operations in the Frankfurt Office. Frankfurt's internal communication discusses contacts with clients and the preparation of campaign presentations, conferences, market research, new policies on billings, advertising regulations, staff appointments, and news from other JWT offices. The external correspondence documents the communication with several clients including Burda, Du Pont, Eilebrecht, Ford, Maggi, Pan Am, Rivella International, Savon Gayal, Vereinigte Papierwerke, Wick Pharma as well as an exchange of information with other JWT offices concerning clients, new business, and international markets. The correspondence with Don Johnston consists of a collection of Johnston's memoranda to JWT International Office Managers concerning the planning for the year ahead, appointments, inquiries and information about international clients as well as some direct correspondence between Clark and Johnston.
Comprised primarily of correspondence between Harry Clark and account supervisors in other J. Walter Thompson Company offices. The majority of items relate to the offices in London and New York. The communication with New York provides general insight into the exchange of information about clients. Extensive information is provided about Clark's visits in New York, the United States travel service (1973), Sony video tape recorders (1973), and the International Basic Economy Corporation (1973). The correspondence with the London Office provides an exchange of memoranda and reports about issues with international clients including information about Reed International, the Braun account, and consumer attitudes to the soap Fa (Unilever) in Germany (1973). Correspondents include David Campbell-Harris (Milan), Constance B. Ivie (New York), Don Johnston (London and New York), Denis Lanigan (London), Julian Morrison (Chicago), Anthony Rau (London), Al Stridsberg (New York).
Provides insight into JWT-Frankfurt's efforts to gain new clients. Documented are first contacts with prospective clients, market analyses, and information requests to JWT Offices that have already worked for the client or for other clients in the same market field. It should be noted that this series contains new business campaigns only for clients that JWT did not obtain. Among the courted clients are B.A.S.F., Commerzbank, Manpower, Red Barn Restaurants, Ranks Hovis McDougall-Foods, and the Württembergische Metallwarenfabrik.
Includes correspondence, financial reviews, marketing plans, meeting reports, travel documentation, presentation files, as well as general administrative memoranda for JWT's international offices. Original folder titles were maintained and items were arranged alphabetically by region, country or city, depending on the original designation.
Contains files relating to JWT international offices in general, and not to specific offices.
[Some items removed to Oversize Materials.]
Contains charts, presentation scripts, memoranda and logistical information, and notes pertaining to various JWT meetings and general advertising events. Includes extensive information and memorabilia regarding the 1984 Worldwide Advertising Meeting at the Epcot Center. Original folder titles were maintained and items were arranged alphabetically by meeting title.
[Includes reports on dishwashing liquids campaigns.]
[Includes slides of events, as well as musical score of the JWT Song. Audio cassettes removed to Audiovisual Materials.]
Contains presentations, plans, meeting files, and marketing plans related to JWT new accounts prospects. Includes scripts of general agency presentations, target plans (T-plans), and new business reports from specific JWT offices. Original folder titles were maintained and items arranged alphabetically.
Contains annual reports and operations reviews documenting the financial and organizational performance of JWT domestic and international offices. Also includes statistics on billings, expenditures, profits and overall personnel performance. Arranged alphabetically by report title.
Includes primarily printed texts of speeches given by Clark and other JWT advertising executives. Also includes reprints of articles, reports, along with Clark's book manuscript, entitled Collective Experience. Topics include general trends in advertising and marketing, specific themes related to JWT's policies and philosophies, year-end reports, specific marketing strategies. Notable individuals represented include Rena Bartos, Jeremy Bullmore, Colin Dawkins, Don Johnston, Stephen King, Denis Lanigan, Dan Seymour, and James Webb Young. Items arranged alphabetically by speech title.
[Includes speech: JWT a Legend in His Own Time, M. Howington, 1988.]
[In Spanish.]
[The following vinyl recordings were removed to the JWT Audiovisual Collection: The Christmas Sounds of San Francisco, 1966 Christmas Chorus, Johann Strauss 100th Anniversary Concert Produced by JWT, Vienna.]
Includes large format items removed from previous series.
[Includes Japanese cereal boxes for Corn Flakes, Frosted Flakes, Honey Smacks, and Corn Pops, among others.]
[Includes organization chart.]
[Includes Ford brochure.]
[Includes floor plans.]
The Lois Gaeta Papers span the years 1956 to 1961 and include television and radio scripts, filmed commercial spots, as well as print advertisements and packaging samples, that document Gaeta's work as a script and copy writer for JWT. Companies represented include Beecham Products (Eno), Blue Cross/Blue Shield, Colgate-Palmolive (Stripe toothpaste), Eastman Kodak, Mentholatum, Reader's Digest, and W.F. Young (Absorbine Jr.).
The collection is arranged into three series: General Files; Company Files; and Audiovisual Materials. The General Files Series includes clippings, correspondence and other printed materials, arranged alphabetically. The Company Files Series consists of radio and television scripts, print advertisements and packaging examples, arranged alphabetically by company name. Therein, scripts are arranged chronologically by year. The Audiovisual Materials Series consists of 16mm black-and-white films of television commercials, primarily for Mentholatum.
Includes clippings, correspondence and other printed materials. Arranged alphabetically.
Includes radio and television scripts, print advertisements and packaging examples. Arranged alphabetically by company name, and scripts are arranged chronologically by year therein.
Consists of television spot advertisements for Mentholatum products.
Restrictions on access: Originals are closed to researchers. Use copies are available in the collection.
Collection spans 1955-1979 and includes photographs, correspondence, biographical sketches, press releases, presentations and other printed materials Submitted to Ms. Gordon as part of her duties relative to assisting Colin Dawkins and the production of the JWT News publication. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
The papers of Kennett Webb Hinks, an executive of the J. Walter Thompson Company, an advertising agency, span the years 1955-1963, and some are undated. The materials consist of copies of Hinks's outgoing office correspondence and memoranda. Letters discuss the planning of advertising campaigns for print, film and radio; market research; product design; selling strategies and advertising techniques; and budgeting. Many include summaries of business meetings. Correspondents include staff members, business associates and clients. The majority of the documents concern Lever Brothers Limited, manufacturer of a variety of soap and bathroom products. Other clients include the Wool Bureau and the New Holland Machine Company. There are frequent communications with other JWT offices in the United States and abroad. A limited amount of material pertains to Hinks's personal, business, and social affairs. Addition focuses on production issues pertaining to the Lever Brothers' Lux Radio and Video Theater program: casting, production services, properties (scripts, adaptations and tie-ins), ratings and reviews, move to a one-hour format, and other issues. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
The Information Center Records span the years from the 1890s to 1987 with the bulk dating from the 1940s to 1987. Reports, memoranda, clippings, financial papers, and printed materials that relate to specific J. Walter Thompson Company accounts and offices and to advertising strategies comprise the majority of the collection and are found in the Vertical Files Series and Communications Committee Reports Series. The Information Center Records provide information about a wide variety of J. Walter Thompson accounts, specific details about its operation of domestic and international offices, and an in-depth view of how specific products were evaluated and promoted. The history of the J. Walter Thompson Company, the organization of multinational advertising agencies, and advertising research and marketing are also represented in this collection.
Particularly highlighted in the Vertical Files Series is information about the T-plan and T-square, which documents the foundation upon which the J. Walter Thompson Company sought to market its clients' products. Knowledge about how particular products were studied and marketed are represented by product histories and case studies in the Vertical files Series. Typical information about a product includes its history, government standards, advertising and sales history, advertising investment sales records, packaging and labeling, consumer research, and surveys relating to the product.
Marketing research studies and media research reports are common types of data found in the J. Walter Thompson domestic and international office records. For example, New York office files contain reports titled Advertising to Women and Advertising and Spanish Speaking Americans. The United Kingdom Files contain a report about the interests of children from four to twelve. While records relating to employees are primarily located in the New York Office files, the Chicago Office files include an Employee Attitude Survey (1969) completed by Elrick and Lavidge, a marketing research company. The domestic and international office files referred to above are located in the Vertical Files Series.
Contains reports, memoranda, case studies, clippings, and financial papers, chiefly redating to specific J. Walter Thompson Company accounts. Case studies can be found either undo the Case studies subsection or within the folder for the particular account, e.g. Scott Paper Company. The amount of material about specific accounts vary. For some, specific information about prizes, contests, and packaging used to promote specific products is included. Testimonial advertising developed to recruit well-known persons to endorse products and volunteer groups, who employed the J. Walter Thompson Company to promote their causes or concerns, are also represented.
(Clients: Lever Brothers/ Winchester Repeating Arms Company/ Swift & Company/ Andrew Jergens Company/ American Tobacco Company/ Arbuclde Brothers/ Pond's Extract Company/ Irving National Bank/ Libby, McNeil and Libby/ Northam Warren Company/ O'Sullivan Rubber Company/ Aunt Jemima Mills Company/ Julius Kayser & Company/ Tidewater Oil Company/ The Charles William Stores/ Charles W. Breneman & Company/ Odorono Company/ G. Piel Company/ Gruen Watch Manufacturing Company/ Piel Brothers)
(Clients: Yuban/ Arbuclde Brothers/ Maxwell House/ Chase & Sanbom)
(Clients: Foundation for Commercial Banks/ Institute of Life Insurance/ Mentholatum Company/ New York Central Railroad/ Northeast Airlines/ Owens-Illinois/ Pond's Extract Company/ Jergens Lotion/ Union Central Life Insurance Company/ Woodbury's Facial Soap)
(Clients: Aunt Jemima/ Cream of Wheat/ Quaker/ Dolly Madison Baking Corporation/ William Freihofer Baking Company/ Hathaway Bakeries/ A.C. Krumm & Son Macaroni Company/ Lever Brothers/ Fleischmann's Distilling Corporation/ Arbuckle Brothers/ Good Luck Pie Filling/ Cutex, Warren Company)
(Clients: General Cigar Company/ White Owl Cigars/ Pond's/ Aqua Velva/ Eastman Kodak Company/ Serpasil Elixir/ Good Luck Margarine)
(Clients: Eastman Kodak Company/ Planter's Nut and Chocolate Company/ Lever Brothers/ Chase & Sanborn/ Magic Baking Powder/ Corning Glass Works/ United States Playing Card Company/ A. & M. Karaghensian/ Royal Baking Powder/ Standard Brands/ Penick and Ford)
(Clients: Cream of Wheat Company/ Lux, Lever Brothers/ Royal Baking Powder/ Sun-Maid)
(Clients: Woodbury's/ Jergens Company/ Winchester/ Pond's)
(Clients: Kdvinator/ Nash Motor Company/ Procter and Gamble/ Atbuclde Brothers/ Tide Water Oil Company/ Charles W. Breneman Company/ Penick and Ford)
(Clients: Mexicana Airlines/ Mink International/ Orkin/ W.F. Young)
(Clients: White Owl Cigars/ Lever Brothers/ Subert House Organ/ Pond's/ Royal Baking Powder/ Fleischmann's Yeast/ Chase & Sanborn)
(Clients: Advertising Council/ Alliance to Save Energy/ ADDY Awards/ Bob Hope Heart Research Institute/ Big Apple Circus/ Boy Scouts of America/ Chicago Literacy Council and Charles Levy Circulating Company/ Statue of Liberty, Ellis Island Restoration Project/ United States Food and Drug Administration/ Harbor Festival '79/ Committee for Hand Gun Control/ Los Angdes Zoo/ Help for Retarded Children/ New York Jazz Museum/ Tuskegee Institute/ Salvation Army/ United Cerebral Palsy Association/ United Givers Fund/ United States Savings Bonds/ United Way/ United States Department of Energy)
News releases, clippings, memoranda, and printed materials, listing J. Walter Thompson Company advertising campaigns that have won awards. Also includes information about consume pangs, used by the company to provide information about the middle class in the United States which represented the major market for its clients. Some material in the consumer panel folders contains reports from the American Marketing Association meeting in June 1944, which had the theme, Mobilization for Market Expansion. Arranged alphabetically by folder title.
Reports, clippings, market studies, media analyses, memoranda, personnel listings, and new business books, relating primarily to specific domestic and international J. Walter Thompson Company offices. The amount of materials about individual offices varies. New York Office Piles comprise the bulk of the series. Specifically highlighted are the New York Office's Media and Public Relations Departments; employee training and orientation programs; information about product account representatives; the reorganization of the Information Center; the Grocery Merchandising Committee, which studied the promotion of supermarket products; and data about Review Board procedures and policies. Also information about specific businesses affiliated with the J. Walter Thompson Company such as Brouillard Communications, and Hill and Knowlton.
(Clients: Tender Leaf Tea/ Chun King/ Standard Brands/ Royal Nuts/ Fleischmann's Yeast/ United States Brewers Foundation/ Buitoni Foods Corporation/ Sylvania Photolamp Division/ Lever Brothers/ Wool Bureau/ Devoe and Raynolds Paint/ Blue Surf/ Prepared Puddings and Pie Fillings/ Florida Citrus Commission/ Philco Corporation/ Ward Baking Company/ Nationwide Insurance)
(Client: Shell Oil Company)
(Client: Lever Brothers)
(Client: S.C. Johnson and Son, Brite Floor Wax)
(Client: S.C. Johnson and Son, Brite Floor Wax)
(Clients: Ford Motor Company/ Lefevre-Utile/ Burroughs/ Valstar Beer/ Courtaulds)
(Client: Unilever)
(Client: Unilever)
(Clients: Oxo and Fray Bentos/ Oxo cubes and Fray Bentos Conned Beef/ The Wine and Spirit Association of Great Britain/ The Friends of Wine/ The Committee for the Wines of France/ South West African Persian Lamb/ English Electric Refrigerators)
The purpose of the reports was to insure maximum use of studies and projects of a broad general interest throughout the J. Walter Thompson Company offices. Committees were organized in New York, Detroit, Chicago, Los Angdes, and San Francisco in 1957. Each office was responsible for collecting material from its own members and forwarding a list of the Items to the central committee in the New York Office. The reports consist of photo-offset copies and printed material in which such topics as advertising techniques, research, media, industries, and demographics are discussed. Some reports contain excerpts or reprints of articles from external sources. The reports were arbitrarily numbered at some point; they have been arranged in order by these numbers. An information folder filed at the beginning of the series includes statistics about how many times some of the reports circulated to domestic and international offices. Some reports did not have obvious titles. In those cases, the information folder was consulted and the names given for the corresponding numbered report were listed below. Reports 25A and 26 Section I, Part B. are missing.
[Report 21: J. Walter Thompson Company Structure; Report 36: The Effectiveness of Industrial Advertising]
Consists of five reels of television commercials. Companies represented include Campbell Taggart Bakeries, Employers Mutual of Wausau, Kraft cheeses and Sears. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
The Don Johnston Papers span the years 1964-1996 and document his career in various positions with JWT. The collection includes international and domestic inter-office correspondence, personal and administrative files, management manuals, presentations, speeches, budgets, billings and profit reports, and video-cassettes materials that relate to planning for JWT projects, committee meetings, marketing research, contracts with clients, management directives, and JWT's corporate mission and philosophy. The papers also touch on Joseph O'Donnell's attempted hostile takeover of the JWT Group, and the purchase of JWT by the WPP Group. Clients represented include: Ford Motor Company, Unilever, Chevron, General Foods, and Uniroyal Tire. Offices represented include: Buenos Aires, Toronto, Chicago, Santiago (Chile), Detroit, Paris, Frankfurt, Bombay (Mumbai), London, Tokyo, New York, and Johannesburg (South Africa).
The collection is organized into four series: Memoranda, Administrative Files, Personal Files, and Audiovisual Materials.
The Memoranda Series includes business correspondence to and from Johnston during his career with JWT and mainly pertains to the day to day operations throughout the worldwide operations of JWT as a transnational entity.
The Administrative Files Series includes reports, plans, inter-office correspondence, general administrative files, as well as information on fund-raising for the JWT archives at Duke University.
The Personal Files Series includes newspaper and periodical clippings, as well as personal correspondence.
The Audiovisual Materials Series consists of promotional works and interviews by Johnston during his tenure with JWT.
Related materials within the JWT Archives may be found in these collections: the Burt Manning Papers, the Thomas Sutton Papers, the Rena Bartos Papers, the Harry Clark Papers, the Joseph O'Donnell Papers, the Greg Bathon Papers and the Denis Lanigan Papers.
Consists of memoranda to and from Johnston from 1969-1984. Includes inter-office memoranda as well as inter-business correspondence. Arranged chronologically.
Includes general files, client files, correspondence between Johnston and various JWT offices, historical material on JWT, reports and speeches. The series is organized into five subseries--Administrative Files, Client Files, Historical, Inter-Office Correspondence, and Projects, Reports and Speeches--and alphabetically therein.
[Includes a poster of London Board of Directors; materials pertaining to a Latin American Managers' meeting in London; a visitor's guide to Soho.]
Meek (1895-1981) was Vice President in Charge of International Operations until his retirement in 1964.
Contains memoranda about the meetings in 1980 and 1981 at the Troutbeck Inn in Amenia, N.Y. to discuss the creation and implementation of the JWT Group.
Treasure was Chairman of JWT London from 1967-1974.
Entirely in Spanish.
Contains fund-raising letters written by Johnston and other former and current JWT executives on behalf of the Hartman Center at Duke University.
Presentations at the Fifth JWT World Management Meeting in 1978. Presenters included Denis Lanigan, Burt Manning, and Marie Luisi.
Includes speeches by Denis Lanigan, John Treasure and Wayne Fickinger.
Contains personal correspondence that related mainly to the hostile takeover attempt of JWT by Joseph O'Donnell, the WPP takeover of JWT, and Johnston's retirement from JWT. Organized into two subseries--JWT History and Personal Correspondence--and alphabetically therein.
[Contains photocopies of letters written by Jacqueline Onassis, Henry Kissinger, and Jimmy Carter to Johnston. Originals are closed to patron use.]
Contains letters written by Jacqueline Onassis, Henry Kissinger, and Jimmy Carter to Johnston.
Consists of video tapes of presentations given by Johnston. Originals and Reference Master copies are closed to patron use.
Format: BetacamSP. Created: 2006.
Format: DVD. Created: 2006.
[Photographs and art with essay on Barcelona's main street. Text in Spanish.]
Includes Advertising Age "TWST names Johnston best chief executive advertising industry"; Sunday Times "Operation Checkmate" on vetting prospective executive's spouses
The collection includes release forms, photographs and publications associated with JWT advertising campaigns; legal contracts outlining terms of agreement between clients and the agency; and other printed materials. Companies represented in the collection include Ford, Gillette, Kodak, Lever Brothers, Pacific Mills (Cocheco Manufacturing Company), Pan American , Quaker Oats, Radio Corporation of America (RCA), Seven-Up, Singer, and Uncle Ben's. Photographers mentioned or whose work appears in the collection include Richard Avedon, Ralph Bartholomew, Anton Bruehl, Horst, Otto Mayo, Valentino Sarra, and Francesco Scavullo.
Consists of photographs and photostats of models as they often appeared in an advertisement. Attached to the images is a signed release by the model. The model releases are arranged alphabetically by client and then by model and date.
Contains photographs and photostats of models as they often appeared in advertisements. Attached to these images are signed releases by models. Items are arranged alphabetically by photographer and then by client and date.
Contains an assortment of publications which required model releases, and especially Ford newsletters from the 1950s. The materials are arranged alphabetically by client and then by the name of the publication and date.
Consists of two folders relating to JWT clients Pacific Mills and Kodak. The Pacific Mills folder contains files related to the introduction of contour sheets from the years 1949-1953. The Kodak folder details a marketing consideration from 1970. The folders were arranged alphabetically by client.
Series includes three black boxes with index cards of models used by the various clients. Items are arranged alphabetically by model in the first two boxes and by client (Kodak only) in the third box.
Includes routine legal contracts which list the terms of agreement between the client, talent and the J. Walter Thompson Company. They specify the length of the contract, the client and the date. The bulk of the contracts are in their original format and therefore have actual signatures of the talent. Overscale refers to the fact that these contracts remunerated above normal union scale wages.
Includes correspondence, market research reports, advertising campaign planning and strategy documents, print advertisements and other printed materials. Companies represented include Elizabeth Arden, Heineken, J&B Scotch, Jaguar, Kraft, Scott Paper, Unilever and Warner-Lambert. Materials in English, German and Spanish. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
The J. Walter Thompson Company London Office Terry Bullen Papers span the years 1979-2002 and consist primarily of presentations and research reports made by JWT. Clients represented include Allied Breweries, Ansell's Bitter (Carlsberg), Beconase (GlaxoSmithKline), British Airports Authority (BAA), Esso, Golden Wonder, Mr. Kipling, Tetley, and Warner Lambert Health Care. Also included are videocassettes, CD-R's and awards information.
Collection includes correspondence, financial records, operations status reports, presentations and other printed materials. Companies represented include De Beers. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Collection includes correspondence, research reports, articles, presentations and other printed materials. Companies represented include CIA Media, De Beers, Nestle, Ogilvy & Mather, Revlon and Rimmel. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Collection consists of correspondence, periodical reports and other printed materials documenting the management of various JWT offices in Europe. The bulk of correspondence pertains to JWT offices in Denmark, Portugal and Sweden. Topics of correspondence include coordination of client relations and advertising campaigns, relocation of staff, agency performance. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Includes contracts, directors' reports, meeting minutes and other printed materials. Companies represented include Art Control, Lansdowne, Trushelfco, and WPP Group. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Collection includes published media reports, corporate documentation, research reports, texts of presentations, correspondence, as well as casting and other production notes that document the Media Department's administrative operations as well as participation in creation of television advertising. Companies represented include BBC, British Telecom, Brooke Bond Oxo, Ford, Golden Wonder (now a subsidiary of Tayto), Kellogg, Kodak, McCann Erickson, Ogilvy & Mather; Rowntree, Scott Andrex (now part of Kimberly-Clark), St. Ivel (now part of Dairy Crest), Superchannel, Thames Television, TSB Bank, and Young & Rubicam. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Includes correspondence, research and status reports, brochures and other printed materials, and other materials that document Rau's work at JWT London in new business acquisition and JWT's charitable efforts. Companies represented include British Petroleum (BP), British Rail, Charities Aid Foundation, Singer, RCA, Tesco and United Biscuits. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Collection consists of subject files on a wide range of marketing topics used as reference by J. Walter Thompson Company staff. These topics range from financial information, legal perspectives, employment trends, awards, particular individuals in the industry, media, packaging, trademarks and research; all materials which further reflect the background work and research carried out by J. Walter Thompson Company in the usual course of business. Formats included are primarily newspaper clippings, articles, and pamphlets. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
The Samuel W. Meek Papers span the years from 1917-1980, although the bulk of the material dates from 1945-1962 and a few items are undated. Samuel Meek served as Vice President in Charge of International Operations of the J. Walter Thompson Company from 1930 to 1964. Working out of the New York office as the head of the International Department, Meek established offices around the world, provided continuing support and advice to the heads of these international offices, made policy decisions related to international operations, and served as a consultant to a number of U.S. government and private agencies concerned with international relations and commerce. The Series arrangement created by the J. Walter Thompson archivist reflects Meek's activities and has been retained. Several categories of material are included: correspondence, market surveys and research reports, letters, official documents (such as the records of Meek's military service), and the transcripts of talks.
The International Offices Series, 1942-1964 and n.d. is comprised primarily of correspondence between Samuel Meek and the heads of J. Walter Thompson's international offices. The majority of the items relate to the offices in Vienna, Toronto, Paris, London, Rome and Tokyo. The work of the offices in Denmark, Argentia, the Caribbean, Greece, Holland, Mexico and Pakistan are less extensively documented. Market surveys and research reports are also included. In addition to Samuel Meek, correspondents include Robert M. Campbell, Wilfrid Sanders, Justin de Blank, Kevin Farrell, Virgil D. Reed, Denys M. Scott, James H. Page, and Harry A. Lee. Major clients represented include UniLever, Kodak, Nestles, Shell Oil, Cheesbrough-Pond's, Rowntree, Olivetti, Oneida, Nabisco, Schick, Campbell Soup, American Chicle Co., General Foods, Honeywell Co., and Sanyo-Scott.
The International Department Series, 1930-1962 and undated is comprised of documents related to J. Walter Thompson's role as an international advertising agency. Included are a 1957 personnel directory, letters outlining interational operations policy, and the transcript of a 1961 interview with Stanley Resor related to the international aspects of the company.
The International Marketing Series, 1954-1962 and undated, includes correspondence with and reports from a number of councils and agencies such as the Business Council for International Understanding, the U.S. Information Agency, and the U.S. State Department. Correspondence related to the planning of a Series of trade fairs, 1954-1961, is also included. This material documents the role that the J. Walter Thompson Company and other multinational businesses played in foreign relations in the era of the Marshall Plan.
The International Correspondents Series, 1945-1962, includes correspondence and informal reports on advertising conditions in various European and Middle Eastern countries. Several of the items in this small collection seem to be preliminary evaluations designed to help Samuel Meek decide whether conditions were appropriate to the opening of a branch office in a particular locale. The correspondents seem to be acquaintances of Meek or simply knowledgeable individuals rather than J. Walter Thompson employees.
The Personal Series, 1917-1979 and undated is primarily concerned with Samuel Meek's personal life: records of his military service, financial details of his retirement, his coat of arms, and other issues. A few items of correspondence with James Webb Young and information about Stanley B. Resor's death and the establishment of the Stanley and Helen Resor Fund for Economic Research at Yale University are included.
The Miscellaneous Series includes several essays about advertising and a few other items.
The International Offices Series spans the years 1942-1964, although the bulk of the material dates from 1945-1960 and a few items are undated. The records consist of correspondence and documents of market research done at the J. Walter Thompson offices outside the United States. The majority of the items relate to the offices in Vienna, Toronto, Paris, London, Rome and Tokyo. The work of the office in Denmark from 1942-1962 and in Argentina, the Caribbean, Greece, Holland, Mexico and Pakistan during 1964-1966 is less extensively documented. The correspondence is primarily between Samuel Meek,Vice President in charge of International Operations, 1930-1964, and the directors of the various branch offices. Most letters and telegrams focus on the practical aspects of establishing and running the offices in foreign countries: budgets, personnel issues, potential clients, competition from other advertising agencies, and market research. Others deal with the more personal aspects of a multi-national business: arranging gifts, meetings and receptions for visiting dignitaries, assisting executives of J. Walter Thompson and of client companies with their travel plans, letters of condolence for the deaths of executives' family members, etc.
A frequent topic of the correspondence is how to reduce xenophobia and to increase the acceptance of an American advertising agency and U.S. products in the face of the nationalistic climate in many of the relevant countries. During the 1940s, the London office was preoccupied with counteracting German anti-British propaganda in the U.S.
Clients of the company represented in the International Offices Series include Lever, Kodak, Nescafe, Shell Oil, Cheesbrough-Pond's, Rowntree, Olivetti, Oneida, Nabisco, Schick, Campbell Soup, American Chicle Co., General Foods, Honeywell Co., and Sanyo-Scott.
Correspondents include Samuel Meek, Robert M. Campbell (Toronto Office), Wilfrid Sanders (Toronto Office), Justin de Blank (Paris Office), Kevin Farrell (Paris Office), Ruth Waldo (New York Office), Virgil D. Reed (London Office), Denys M. Scott (Paris Office), James H. Page (Tokyo Office), Harry A. Lee (San Francisco Office). Other correspondents include officials of the U.S. and other governments.
The International Department Series is comprised of documents related to J. Walter Thompson's employing an international advertising agency. A 1957 personnel directory lists those employees of J. Walter Thompson with international backgrounds. The Policy Letters file includes correspondence related to various international operations policy issues. Touched on here are the undesirability of an apprenticeship system, identifying optimal locations for agency offices, coordinating the international offices, volume discounts for advertisements, possible conflicts of interest in assuming a new client or product, training employees for foreign offices, producing speculative copy, principles of house advertising, how to handle unsolicited ideas, business ethics, and the creative process. The transcript of the 1961 interview with Stanley Resor regards the international aspects of the agency.
The International Marketing Series is comprised of correspondence and reports of the Business Council for International Understanding. Issues treated include ways to adapt products for foreign markets and understanding that cultural differences may make certain products unacceptable in a particular country. One folder includes correspondence with the Department of Commerce related to the planning of trade fairs.
J. Walter Thompson's role as both an adviser to the U.S. government and as an ambassador of good will towards the U.S. and capitalism is reflected in the Series of correspondence with the U.S. Information Agency, the Economic Cooperation ADM, the Mutual Security Agency and the U.S. State Department. The Agora Study, 1962, was designed to stimulate the democratic process at its roots. The U.S. Travel Promotion Plan was designed to promote the travel of foreigners to the United States.
This small collection of miscellaneous correspondence includes an evaluation of the advertising situation in Switzerland (1959), A Study of the Advertising Agency Business in Switzerland and Sweden (1959), Impressions of Beirut (1961), and letters to advertising companies in Kuwait and Greece. A report on the condition of Holland's economy and infrastructure (1945) and correspondence with Jan Fels and others in the Netherlands. Also included are a report on agency representation in Portugal and correspondence related to the potential for business in Portugal and Spain.
This miscellaneous correspondence discusses details of retirement compensation and tax liability, stock holdings, arrangements for various talks and luncheons, and Meek's coat of arms. Several letters (1937-1938, 1968) are exchanges with James Webb Young. Materials related to Robert R. Mullen pertain to public relations for the Eisenhower- Nixon campaign, the United States Information Agency, and Robert R. Mullen's public relations and marketing company.
Clients include Campbell Soup Co., Chesebrough-Pond's, Gale's Honey, Persil, Rolex, Rowntree, Steel Co. of Wales, Windolene
The papers of Lucile Turnbach Platt, former employee of the J. Walter Thompson Company's Personality Department, span the years 1926 to 1930; some Items are undated. The materials primarily document the creation of a testimonial advertising campaign for Simmons beds and boxsprings, and Beautyrest mattresses. The papers illustrate the selection of spokespersons, photographing of them and their home interiors, travel arrangements, delivery and removal of beds, and payment for their services. The materials chiefly consist of office memoranda and other correspondence among Platt, other JWT staff and product spokespersons. The collection also includes photographs and negatives, a few samples of advertisements, lists of women approached to participate, unsigned copies of contracts, and drafts of testimonials. Most of the files relate to soliciting very prominent American and foreign women to endorse Simmons products, including Eleanor Roosevelt, Mrs. Charles Crocker, Mrs. John Sargent Pillsbury, Mrs. Perry Tiffany, Mrs. Robert T. Vanderbilt, and Mrs. John W. Wanamaker III, among many others. Endorsers were paid between $1,000 and $5,000 for permission to use their names, photographs, and testimonials. Photographs of bedrooms were shot on location in the women's homes. The materials are arranged with miscellaneous Simmon's account files first, alphabetically by title, then files are arranged alphabetically by the spokesperson's name.
The JWT San Francisco Office Records span the years 1959-1999, and includes advertising proofs, commercial artwork, print schedules, marketing plans, manuals, company history materials, correspondence, Creative Library catalogs and audiovisual materials (audio cassettes, VHS video cassettes and videotapes). Also included are the papers of Harry A. Lee, a JWT executive involved in the development of JWT's Pacific Rim business during the 1960s. Companies represented in the collection include California Raisin Advisory Board, Dean Witter, Ferry-Morse Seed Company, Labatt's, Morris Plan, and Schlage. JWT offices touched on in the collection include New York, Manila (Philippines) and Tokyo (Japan).
Includes reports, surveys, printed materials, samples of advertisements and logo designs, and catalogs of the Creative Library holdings. Organized alphabetically. Original folder titles were retained where possible.
[Includes International Fund for Animal Welfare and San Miguel beer.]
[Includes Treasures of the World Mint Gulfstream commemorative coin information.]
[Includes American Express, IBM, Kodak, Levi's, Porsche and Sony.]
Subseries scope/content note.
Henry Lee was a JWT executive active in the development of JWT's Pacific Rim expansion. Includes correspondence, client files and materials relating to various JWT offices. Arranged alphabetically. Original folder titles have been maintained where possible.
Arranged by format and alphabetically by title.
The J. Walter Thompson Company Bill Sharfman papers include correspondence, speeches, research and policy reports and other printed materials, as well as audiovisual materials (video- and audio cassettes). Companies represented include Brouillard Communications, Chevron (Standard Oil of California), Ernst & Young (PACE Awards), GM, Goodyear, Harvard Business School, Kodak, Olivetti, Renault, Rockefeller Center, St. Ivel (Dairy Crest), Tayto (Golden Wonder), Televisión Nacional de Chile, and McNeil (Tylenol). Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Highlights of the General Files include: materials related to the School of Jazz/Music Inn in Lenox, MA in the late 1950s; an interview with Dr. W. Edwards Deming; and a White House Summit on Innovation in 1999.
informational packet on the Brookings Institution
Clippings from the Worcester Sunday Telegram, March 6, 1960; New York Times, July 26, 1990
Clippings included with letters sent to Sharfman from JWT and other ad agencies congratulating him on his promotion in 1982
Correspondence from before, during, after Sharfman's work in advertising. Bulk of correspondence relates to a promotion at JWT in 1982.
Dr. W. Edwards Deming
NetView Winter 1994/95, Wired article about Global Business Network, GBN Book Club 1994
Miscellaneous newsletter articles for Sun Valley, Idaho, and Time-Sharing Today, publication proofs for an article on Malamud in Rendezvous, and two undated pieces on essay mills and the interstate highway system
Presentation by Craig Barrett, Intel, at MIT, 1995
Materials related to Philip Morris-sponsored adult literacy program in Philadelphia.
Action shot of an unidentified man riding a motorcycle
Records from Sharfman's time at the School of Jazz in Lenox MA, as well as information about the documentary, Music Inn. Jazz musicians such as Ornette Coleman, Max Roach, Bill Evans, Don Cherry, and Jimmy Giuffre, among others, are mentioned.
Copies of Preface and Acknowledgments from Lee Sage, Winning the Innovation Race.
The Academic series includes materials from Sharfman's career as an English professor, includingsuch as bibliographies, exams, assignments, lecture notes, and teaching evaluations.
Includes correspondence with Con Edison
Recommendations and job placement letters for Sharfman
Note from Sharfman : "Subject of my dissertation - project never completed"
Recommendation letters by Sharfman on behalf of other people
Sharfman's notes and syllabi for various courses in English at Idaho State and Columbia College; most undated. Course subjects include the city in modern literature, art and literature in the 19th century, and the novel. Explanatory note from Sharfman about his teaching method included in folder 1.
Brandweek, 2001
Bulletin also includes a feature on the state of the academic job market for English PhDs
Various issues of Automobile magazine which include articles and interviews by Sharfman. Interviewees include Morley Safer (of 60 Minutes), Betsy Ancker-Johnson, Heinz Prechter, Steve Earle, Jerry Curry, and Emilio Anchisi. Articles include review of the Baedeker, and "Escape from Tokyo."
in Japanese
Design Management Journal, Winter 1992; A New Perspective on Design, Cheskin + Masten, 1992
interview with Padraig Flynn, EC Commissioner of Social Affairs
Interview with EPA Administrator, William K. Reilly
Various issues of Las Vegas Life which include automotive reviews and commentary by Sharfman
Article on "Mercedes and the Boxfish"
The Automotive series documents the early years of the Ernst & Young/Automotive News PACE Awards for Innovation, for which Sharfman served as a judge for several years. The series also includes several presentations related to automotive innovation in the 1990s. The bulk of Sharfman's automobile reviews and related writing can be found in the Print Materials series.
Includes conference program and 3 unidentified photographs
Information on a 1933 Chrysler.
Includes correspondence and two presentations on "Branded Driver Education in America" prepared for GM and AutoNation.
Presentation to Renault - framework for re-entering the US market
Interview of Tom and Ray Magliozzi of "Car Talk"
includes background research and notes for interview with maker of the Shelby Cobra
short reviews of new models in Lifetime and Driving Forces magazine; including Toyota Avalon, Volvo S60, Cadillac CTS, and Sierra Denali.
Drafts of blank applications with markup, comments on innovation
List of previous PACE finalists through 2004, undated
"Ocean" :30; "Self-Realization" :60
"Jack (Coffin)"; "Mike"; "Heavy Metal"; "Double Date"; "Barney". 2:30
Goodby, Silverstein. Bell Helmets "Reason/Siren Rev. 1" :30
Interview with Dr. Vijay Kakkar. J. Walter Thompson. 40:39
Brouillard Communications. Goodyear "Nuns" "Children"; Blue Cross/Blue Shield "Teenage Alcoholic"; Coors "Historical"; Textron "Bostich--Simple Idea"; Selchow & Righter "Suspense"; Irving Trust "Commuter"; Eaton "Vintage Truck"; CUNA "Farmer"; Goodyear "Lombardi"; Olivetti "Type Off".
Triangle, Whitfield House, London. "Glasses". NTSC copy
Interview with Dr. Vijay Kakkar. J. Walter Thompson. Edited Master
J. Walter Thompson. In Defense of the Press; Master as used in Monte Carlo. 27:00
John Mack Carter/Good Housekeeping interview. Master 54:00
Lowe & Partners/SMS. Mercedes Benz spots: "Celebrity Intro"; "Cupids"; "Designers"; "Non Stop"; "Rhinos Black and White". 2:30
A.O. Sulzberger. New York Times. Edited master. 32:00
Interview with Norman Cousins. J. Walter Thompson. 10:00
Ernst & Young (copyrighted). NTSC. SP. 5:55.
Phyllis Whitney/Glamour interview. Master. 12:00
Richard McLaughlin/Readers Digest interview. Master. 23:00
Savvy Interview. Master. 26:00
Lynne Berentson/Self interview. Master. 30:00
J. Walter Thompson. Unilever presentation "Interviews." 7:40
J. Walter Thompson. Unilever/In Defense of the Press. 60:00
Roosevelt, Churchill, Nancy Zakreski
10-1-82. Helen Gurley Brown. Master. 22:00
Editor interviews. Master. 4:00
Collection spans the years 1895-2006 and includes research reports, policy manuals, correspondence, writings and presentations and other materials documenting JWT's history and operations. It is an artificial collection that gathers a large number of small accessions and loose materials discovered during periodic cleanup and inventory of archival stacks and office spaces.
Collection consists chiefly of verbatim minutes of a variety of staff meetings held at the New York and Chicago offices of JWT. Also included are advertisements, photographs, articles, and other printed material attached to minutes as background material or supplemental reading for the meetings. A set of subject indexes are included for some of the meeting series. Topics discussed include account histories, case studies and company profiles; activities of international and domestic JWT offices including country profiles; advertising and client relations during a depression; development and use of advertising media (film, outdoor, print, radio, television); general business and economic conditions; market research; new business activity; promotional techniques (coupons, merchandising, retail store displays); the structure and function of various JWT departments; and social trends. Companies frequently mentioned include Andrew Jergens, Cutex, General Motors, J.C. Penney, Johns-Manville, Lever Brothers, Kraft, Pennsylvania Railroad, and Standard Brands. Speakers include Alfred Harcourt, Arno Johnson, Clarence Darrow, Claude Hooper, Daniel Starch, Edward Steichen, Fanny Bell, John B. Watson, John U. Reber, Kennett Hinks, Margaret Bourke-White, Paul T. Cherington, Rudy Vallee, Ruth Waldo, Sam Meek, Stanley Resor, Will Hays, and William Esty.
Original meeting minutes for the Account Representative Meetings, Creative Organization Meetings, JWT Forum Meetings, Monday Evening Staff Meetings, and Men's and Women's Apprentice Group Meetings.
Representatives' Meetings, attended by top company executives and account representatives, were held weekly from 1927 until 1932 to discuss the state of the company. Subjects included clients, advertising practices, company finances, activities of international and domestic offices and branches, and general business conditions. Meetings often featured a talk on a specific topic by a staff member. [Source: Accession record.]
New business; Curtis; N. W. Ayer; Lux; Procter & Gamble; Camay; John U. Reber; John B. Watson; Paul Cherington; William C. Esty;
Standard Oil; Corning Glass Company; Certo; Lux; Hellmann's; Simmons; Pennsylvania Railroad; Maxwell House; Fleischmann; JWT newsletter; Stanley B. Resor; Samuel Yellin; Stewart L. Mims; Henry C. Fowler;
Boston Evening American; Lux; Pennsylvania Railroad; Meredith Publications; Postum; Campbell's Soup; Shredded Wheat; Curtis; new business; prospective clients; newsletter; Mr. Ricketts
Newsletter; chain store business; California Crushed Fruits Company; Deering Milliken Company; Schumaker; Standard Oil; Ford; business trends; Art Department
"The Curve of Progress"; retail shopping areas; sales analysis; Paul Cherington
Art Department; Colman's Mustard "Mustard Club"; Fleischmann's; Sloan's Liniment; General Motors; European offices; London Office; Arthur Hartzell (Spain); Clement Watson (Berlin)
New business; Du Pont; Vick's Vaporub; United Fruit Company; "Talk on Hellman's Blue Ribbon Mayonnaise"; Lloyd Baillie
New business; Gotham Hosiery Company; Robeson Rochester; Brillo; U.S. Rubber Keds; Yale Electric Corporation; DuPont; Eveready; Woman's Home Companion; Ladies' Home Journal; Good Housekeeping; "Changing Trade Names"; Paul Cherington sales analysis; Earle Clark on preparation charges
New business; Campfire Marshmallow; J. C. Penney Company; Nestle Circuline Wave; Curtis Brothers; Michigan Lumber Manufacturing
New business; Pennsylvania Rubber; Illinois Merchants Trust Company; J. C. Penney; Curtis; DuPont; Lux Toilet Soap; John Reber; William Esty on Lux; advertising photography; Paul Cherington on business trends in oil, steel, and building industries
New business; DuPont; Campfire Marshmallow; J.C. Penney; United Fruit; Standard Oil; Ethyl Gas; General Motors; Pennsylvania Rubber; Gruen; William Day on JWT advertising campaign costs; print advertising circulation and costs; News Bulletin
Baltimore Census of Distribution; Pond's; Fleischmann; News Bulletin; General Motors; Cheek Neal Coffee Company; Pennsylvania Rubber; Maxwell House; Henry Miner (Egypt); John Reber; Gilbert Kinney; Stewart L. Mims; Lloyd Baillie; print advertising placement
News Bulletin; Scott Paper; Campbell's Soup; J.C. Penney; Nestle; Fox Films; Equitable; chain stores; grocery stores; manufacturing; Paul Cherington on chain stores;
Newspaper advertising (position; insertions; schedules); Fleischmann; Pond's; Lux Toilet Soap
Scott Paper; J.C. Penney; DuPont; National Radiator; Nestle; Standard Oil; Meredith Publications; Farm Advertising; "Better Homes and Gardens;" "Dairy Farmer"; Vogue; Successful Farming; farm publications
Welch Grape Juice; Welch-Ade; outdoor advertising; Nashville
Campfire Marshmallow; Gillette; Karagheusian; DuPont; cigarette and tobacco advertising; Liggett & Myers; Blackstone; Old Gold; Campbell Soup; Morse & Rogers Shoe; Hartford Advertising Club; Fleischmann baking and sales research; advertising research investigations; cosmetic market research; newspaper advertising; Pond's market research; sales of foil; mail investigation
U. S. Rubber Keds; Pennsylvania Railroad; Stewart Mims; department and chain stores; Art Department; poster advertising; magazine advertising; consumer psychology
Quorum not met; meeting cancelled.
Newspaper advertising; Fleischmann; Rinso; Lever Brothers; Scott Paper; Lux Toilet Soap; Franklin Baker; survey research
New business; Squibbs perfume; Bovril; Norwich shaving cream; Pinaud; Pond's in England; United Fruit; Gillette; J.C. Penney; Texas Company; Nestle Hair Waving; Glyco-Thymoline; Agfa; Campfire; United Fruit; DuPont; Campbell's Soup; William Esty on Production Group and high-brow vs. low-brow advertising; tabloid advertising
Simmons Mattresses; newspaper advertising
No notes were taken
New business solicitations; JWT billings; Gantner & Mattern; Walker Dishwasher Corporation; Nestle Hair Waving; Cliquot; Texas Company; DuPont; Campbell Soup; American Bemberg Corporation; Scientific American; Royal Baking; Hooven; Pennsylvania Railroad; John Reber; Chicago Office; London Office; testimonial advertising
No notes were taken
Maxwell House Coffee; Cutex; General Motors; Buston; Gruen; Chesebrough; Woodbury; Phenix Cheese; Fleischmann; Royal Baking Powder; Simmons; foreign advertising; San Francisco Office; London Office; Europe
Pennsylvania Rubber; Corning Glass; Pyrex; Mrs. Watson's Pie Crust; William Palmer
Piggly Wiggly; Sterling Remedies; Nestle Hair Waving; United Fruit; Simmons; Gulbransen Piano Company; Federal Radio; W.F. Lochridge (JWT Chicago); conflicts of interest
Sales summary; Muffets; Scott Paper; Saturday Evening Post; Paul Cherington; James Young (JWT Chicago); AAAA meeting; accountancy; American Newspaper Publishers Association; newspaper vs. magazine advertising; agency percentage commission system
Sales summary; Scott Paper; Saturday Evening Post; Paul Cherington; newspaper vs. magazine advertising
Soap advertising; Lifebuoy; William Esty
Gruen Watch Company; Pentagon watches; jewelry advertising; Bill Groom
Newspaper advertising; White Plains newspaper investigation
Foreign Advertising; Piggly Wiggly; Royal Baking Powder; Lux; General Motors; Dominion Rubber; Gruen; Canada; Samuel Meek; Howard Henderson (Cincinnati Office); Hooven & Allison
Globe-Wernicke; N. W. Ayer; Northern Warren; Pinaud; Maxwell House; Cutex Polish; Unguentine; discussion of creating something like N.W. Ayer's "Plan Board"; account losses; drug stores
Population figures; demographics; grocery stores; retail shopping areas; Paul Cherington
No notes were taken; letter from W.F. Lochridge (JWT Chicago) on weekly staff meetings
Retail shopping; Simmons; Martex; Dodge; Retail Shopping Areas book; Paul Cherington
Simmons Company; George Fowler
Marketing art; Edward J. Steichen; photography; color photographs; photography for newspaper reproduction; models vs. society women
Newspaper advertising; tabloid vs. "class" magazine advertising; Fleischmann; Pyrex
Newspaper advertising; Hellman's; Cutex; Cashmere Bouquet; General Motors; Macy; Maxwell House Coffee; B.F. Goodrich; Ipana; Associated Savings Bank; Berlin; print jobbers; indirect advertising; train cards; radio advertising and broadcasting
Ford Motors; Barrelled Sunlight; Royal Baking Powder; Mississippi Valley; Fleischmann; Harvard Bok Award for research work in advertising
Maxwell House Coffee; Lux Toilet Soap; Palmolive; Fleischmann; Keds; Atwater Kent; magazine circulation; testimonials; international advertising; Canada; media research; readership and family income
Lux Toilet Soap; Woolworth; Phenix; Hellmann; Pyrex; John Ward Shoes; Pennsylvania Railroad; Nemo Corsets; newspaper advertising
General Motors; Cutex; Van Camp; Simmons; Certo; Canadian market; Richmond Watson; timeline of Chevrolet from Berlin Office
Maxwell House Coffee; Yuban; Wrigley Chewing Gum; Colgate; Lever Brothers; Super Suds; Canada Dry; newspaper advertising; coffee market
Macy's; Simmons Beds; J. C. Penney; retail drug stores and chains; "Newspaper Cooperation"
J. C. Penney's; LaSalle; Buick; General Motors; Gorman; Chevrolet (Germany); Libby; automobile advertising; JWT London; international advertising
Pond's; Simmons; Lux; Fleischmann; Red Cap; Keds; Woodbury; Pond's; Carter's; Rinso; Ford; display advertising; editorial advertising; history of advertising; magazine advertising; moving picture advertising; testimonials; celebrity endorsements; Hollywood; men in advertisements; fashion
Barrelled Sunlight; J. C. Penney's; Curtis Publishing; newspaper advertising
Test campaigns; Bovril; Pebeco; Pinaud; Pond's; Aunt Jemina; Campbell's Soup; Pond's; Lux Toilet Soap; J.C. Penney; health claims of products; advertising demonstrations; Great Britain; Canada
Fleischmann; Scott Paper; B.F. Goodrich; store displays; test campaigns; newspaper advertising; outdoor advertising
Stuebing Cowan Company; Pennsylvania Railroad Company; U.S. Rubber Keds; Pennsylvania Rubber; Graybar Electric Company; Goodrich; Maxwell House; resigning accounts to acquire another; Radio Department
Woolworth's; Phenix Cheese; Kroger Stores; Penick & Ford; Standard Oil Company; Interstate Commerce Commission; Miller Rubber Company; Fleischmann; advertising costs and scale
Norwich Pharmacal; Amolin; Odorono; Society for Electrical Development; Postum; Certo; Maxwell House; Certo Corporation; cosmetics advertising; radio advertising
Borvil; Savora; A & P; Colman; Krumm; Scott Paper; Flako Pie Crust; Lumber Association; Cotton Textile Institute; test campaigns; packaging; newspaper advertising
Outdoor advertising; Clyde S. Thompson
Outdoor advertising; Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company; Camel Cigarettes; Atwater Kent Radio; Maxwell House; Jantzen; Dodge; advertising copy
General Motors; South American advertising; William Ricketts
General Motors; Chevrolet; Coca-Cola; Wrigley; Times Square; outdoor advertising; tobacco advertising; electric signs and spectaculars; street car advertising; posters vs. painted displays
Cheek Neal; Goodrich; chain store sales; radio advertising; radio broadcast networks; short wave
Fleischmann; Liberty Company; nutritional yeast research
Department of Commerce; Census of 1930; automobile advertising; distribution research
Telephone Company; yeast research; Bovril; telephone sales; toll calls; telephone directories; testimonials
General Motors; U.S. Steel; Pennsylvania Railroad; Shell Oil; Woolworth; Cream of Wheat; new accounts; international offices; John Reber; Sam Meek
Palmolive; Colgate; Royal Gelatin; Certo; Mount Vernon Ladies' Association; Society for Electrical Development; Vogue; magazine advertising; women's magazines
American Association of Advertising Agencies; Curtis Publishing Company; magazine duplication research; magazine advertising; Daniel Starch
National Lumber Manufacturing Association; Curtis Publishing Company; Florida Citrus Growers Exchange; Pennsylvania Railroad; Mavis; Stetson; Celanese; Woolworth; trade paper advertising; service departments
Royal Baking Powder; Postum; Pyrex; Pebeco; Libby; advertising estimates; coupons
Lux Toilet Soap; Fleischmann; advertising drawings; photographs; coupons;
Florida Citrus Exchange; Royal Baking Powder; new business solicitation; coupons
Woodbury's Facial Soap; Straus; Sterno; soft drinks; Coca-Cola; Moxie; Caffeine and the US Supreme Court; General Motors; Cadillac; Port Elizabeth; South Africa; coupons; Gilbert Kinney; John U. Reber; Stewart L. Mims
American Association of Advertising Agencies; chain stores; Phenix Cheese; Kraft Cheese; American Stores; Del Monte; coupons
Coupons; National Cooperative Sales Service; Vick's Vapo Rub; Scott Paper; Welch's Grape Juice; Curtis Publishing; Gorham; new business
Goodrich Company; tire advertising; William G. Palmer; Kennett Hinks; San Francisco Office
Simmons Company; Macy's; George Fowler
Gorham Plateware; Union Tpbacco; Herbert Tareyton; International Telephone and Telegraph; Shell Oil; Kraft Company; Phenix; Toledo Scale; New England Council; General Motors; John U. Reber
Fleischmann; Stox; Yeast; Vegex; store displays
London Office; Lux Toilet Soap; General Motors; Lucky Strike; candy; Europe
Industrial Sales Conference of the Electrical Industry; electrical products; Edison; William L. Day
Newspaper advertising; Pennsylvania Railroad; railway posters in England; Stewart L. Mims; Clyde Thompson
Goodrich Company; Hellman's; Martex; Simmons; Lord & Thomas; pricing in chain stores; business outlook for 1929; Alexandria Office; Rumania
Maxwell House Coffee; Lux Toilet Soap; cigarette advertising; Tareyton; Camel; Chesterfield; Union Tobacco Company; William C. Esty
International Telephone and Telegraph; Postal Company; All America Cables; Curtiss Aeroplane & Motor Company; National Diary Products Corporation; John U. Reber
J. C. Penney Company; Poster Advertising; outdoor advertising; buying power; Clyde S. Thompson
New business; Curtiss Aeroplane & Motors Company; Sheffield Farms Company; Electrical Development; Boston Edison; publicity; Warsaw Office; John U. Reber; Edward Fuller
Foreign office development; Royal Baking Powder; Scott Paper; Cutex Manicure Sets; General Motors; McGraw-Hill; Media Department; South Africa; Gilbert Kinney [no minutes recorded Feb. 7, Feb. 20, Apr. 24, 1929]
New accounts; general business outlook; outdoor advertising; American Tobacco Company; General Motors; Stanley Resor
J. W. Thompson reputation; client satisfaction; publication representatives; John U. Reber
Royal Baking Powder; magazine circulation figures
Industrial film business; motion pictures; filmmakers; YMCA Motion Picture Bureau; sound pictures; film production costs; distribution; home projection
Testimonial advertising; Stanley Resor
Radio advertising; Maxwell House Coffee; Aunt Jemima; Lucky Strike; General Motors; sponsored programming
Radio advertising; National Broadcasting Company; Radio Homemaker's Club; Royal Baking Powder; outdoor advertising; psychology of advertising
Industrial Alcohol Institute; denatured alcohol; antifreeze; Prestone; William G. Palmer
American Association of Advertising Agencies; Cream of Wheat; Irving Trust; Lloyd Baillie
Contemporary art; international advertising; history of JWT's international offices; General Motors; James Webb Young; Sam Meeks
New business; Curtiss Aeroplane and Motor Company; DuPont; Atlantic Coast Fisheries; New England Refining Company; Lever Brothers; yeast; mail order advertising; advertising readership; circulation; testimonials; coupons; Lux Toilet Soap; Cutex; John U. Reber; William Esty
Hexylresorcinols; Sharp & Dohme; Unguentine; Hexadent; medical claims in advertising; John B. Watson
Window display advertising; Pennsylvania Railroad; Irving Trust Company; silver fleet; William L. Day
Industrial Alcohol; Foremost Dairy; Old Witch Ammonia; Pennsylvania Railroad; Irving Trust; Fleischmann; Goodrich; Real Silk Hosiery Mills; newspaper advertising; outdoor advertising; Clyde Thompson
Pennsylvania Railroad advertising; Stewart Mims
Foremost Dairy Company; outdoor advertising
Industrial motion pictures; recipes as promotions
Pennsylvania Railroad
Stanford University; Shell Oil Company; Laminex Door Company; Matson Navigation Company; San Francisco Office; Sun Maid; California Fruit Growers Exchange; Paul Cherington
General outdoor advertising Company
Pyrex Ovenware; Mellville Shoes; William Palmer
General outdoor advertising Company; outdoor advertising; Gilbert Kinney (appears to be a duplicate of minutes from July 16)
McCall Agency; General Motors; Goodrich Tires; Goodyear Tires; National Broadcasting Company; Cream of Wheat; Pond's; Fleischmann; Pond's; radio advertising; Silver Fleet; Sears; South American advertising industry
New business; News Bulletin; Glass Container Association; Texas Oil; Tareyton; General Motors; Sloan's liniment; tobacco advertising; South America; anti-American sentiments and propaganda [no minutes recorded Aug. 13 or 27]
International Advertising Congress; South American Office; Goodrich; Germany; Australia Office; Stewart Mims
Radio; outdoor advertising
S. W. Straus & Company; magazine advertising; newspaper advertising; testimonials; copy formula
International Department; Foreign Offices; Goodrich Silver Fleet; Market Conditions; William Palmer
Radio advertising; Press Bureau's publicity activities; Chicago Office; San Francisco Office; International Telephone and Telegraph; Kraft; Libby; Crosley; Cisco; Shell Company; Publicity Department; John U. Reber
General Motors Export; Crowell Publications; advertisers' productions; American Magazine; "talkie" films; John B. Watson; Stewart Mims
Radio advertising; General Motors Conditions; Federal Reserve Bank; securities market; business conditions; Paul Cherington
Research for Export Trade; industrial alcohol; Alcohol Institute campaign; Window Advertising Service; display advertising; export markets; international advertising; pricing; Henry Flower
Chase & Sanborn's Coffee campaign; General Motors Export service stations; Overseas Motor Service Corporation; Maxwell House; Royal Baking Company; coffee industry; merchandising; automotive maintenance market; Lloyd Baillie
New business; breakdown of Industrial Alcohol Institute appropriation; Curtiss Flying Service; Kodak; A&P; Eskimo Pie; R.J. Reynolds; Camel; Prophylactic Toothbrush; Shell Oil; outdoor advertising; John Reber
Lux Flakes test campaign; newspaper advertising; testing advertisements; advertising art; Corning Glass Works; William Esty
Meeting of businessmen with President Hoover; role of advertising; automobile industry; Packard; Gillette; American Woolen Mill; "dumping" of products; pricing; encyclopedia on advertising; international advertising
Open discussion; how to run meetings; Radio Department; London Office
Radio programs; B.F. Goodrich; Melville Shoes; radio station costs; newspaper rates
Fleischmann campaign; foil yeast; nutritional yeast; testimonials
Goodrich Sport Shoes; Beacon Falls; booklet "How to Talk in the Indian Sign Language" by Chief Buffalo Child Long Lance
S. W. Straus & Company campaign results
International Department; new international accounts; new international offices; "Dollarature"; "Europe as a Market" by Francis P. Miller and H. D. Hill; "Our Navy Under the London Treaty" by Lieutenant Melvin F. Talbot; Henry Flower; John Reber
Textile industry advertising; Chatham Manufacturing blanket account; Lloyd Baillie
Goodrich publicity; outdoor advertising; Maine Sardine Fisheries; Chase & Sanborn; industrial alcohol; Alcohol Institute; Clyde Thompson; William Palmer
Report on radio; radio advertising; television; outdoor advertising; Cream of Wheat; Davey Tree Surgeon; Chicago Office
Textile advertising; food advertising; Penick & Ford (Vermont Maple Syrup); Ovaltine
International advertising; international markets; General Motors; Europe; centralized vs decentralized account management; Sharpe & Dohme Solution ST37 toothpaste
Eastman Kodak Company history; Kodak Park; Tennessee Eastman; Eastman Classroom Films; Lloyd Baillie; Walter Hine
Montreal Office review; Canadian market; French language market; general announcements; Woodbury Soap; Jergens; soap and cosmetics market; New Business Department; Robert Flood (JWT Montreal)
Scott Paper Company; nonfood grocery products; toilet tissue advertising; negative vs. positive advertising; newspaper advertising; retail floor diaplays
Simmons Company; Pennsylvania Railroad; magazine advertising; furniture and floor coverings market; advertising typography; magazine layout; Montreal Office; Raymond Browne
Importance of strategy in advertising copy; William Day
Analysis of business conditions; Arno Johnson; Gilbert Kinney
Review of new business; business conditions; sales analysis of JWT; Lloyd Baillie; Henry Flower
Los Angeles Office review; Southern California market conditions; Hollywood; film industry; Cliquot Club; National Electric Light Association; electrical industry; McGraw-Hill; TAT (Transcontinental Air Transport); Dan Danker; Stewart Mims
New business; Wall Street Office; L. C. Smith-Corona Typewriter account; office equipment market; portable typewriters; William Palmer
Radio plan work; Radio Department; radio advertising; advertising for Farm Board; grapes; Robert Colwell
Open discussion; Simmons account; Standard Brands; nutritional yeast; Royal Gelatin Desserts; Scott Paper; Pennsylvania Railroad; TAT (Transcontinental Air Transport); ST37 toothpaste; Pond's packaging
Publicity Department; Cream of Wheat; Scott Paper; Roxana Oil People; Carl Getz
J. W. Thompson Company in Spain; Spanish market and media; Portugal; Goodrich; Johnson Outboard Motor; Frigidaire; Arthur Hartzell
Eastman Kodak; newspaper publicity; general business situation; new business; commodity prices; Carl Getz; Paul Cherington; Henry Flower; William Resor
Showmanship in radio; George Faulkner
The newspaper situation today; Media Department; newspaper advertising; rotogravure; Lux Toilet Soap; Dorothy Dix; Simmons; Edwin Cummings
Foremost Dairies; Goodrich; Edward Fuller
S. W. Straus & Company; securities and investment market; Kennon Jewett
Counter and window displays; Gruen Watch in Europe; Standard Brands; consumer psychology; Benjamin H. Miller
New business and general conditions; outdoor advertising; grape cooperative; cigarette advertising; women smokers; development of urban poster panel size; San Francisco Office; Clyde Thompson
Advertising copy; radio advertising; Goodrich; Miller Tire; William Esty; William Palmer
Special meeting; Printer's Ink; "Large Advertiser to Take Over Agency?"; General Motors; Campbell-Ewald; house agencies;
New business situation; chart of JWT business; Henry Flower
Pattern campaign for international offices' smaller accounts; Brazil; Henry Miner
Simmons advertising copy; "In What Position Do Healthy People Sleep?" by Johnson, Swan, Weigand; testimonial advertising; Aminta Casseres
Magazine circulation; Atlantic Coast Fisheries; Canada; women's magazines; John Esty; Edward Fuller
Vermont Maid Syrup; Nestle Milk Chocolate; Buenos Aires Office; Noel and Company; Penick & Ford Limited; comparison of newspaper circulation
Trade papers; "A Great Scientist Looks to God" by George Gray; National Dairy Products; Kraft; Sidney Dean
Scientific approach to advertising copy ideas; sales variation; Electric Boat Company; L. C. Smith typewriters; John Kimball
Association advertising; Wood Office Furniture Association; color photography in advertising; hand-coloring photographs; Cast for Representatives Meeting Play; outline of a grocery store skit "August Schmaltz, Retail Grocer"
J. Walter Thompson in Europe; John Watson
J. Walter Thompson in France; "Plotting the French Market: Review of a Survey that Should Help in Selling to France" by Amos Stote; Karl Knipe (JWT France)
Art in advertising; Elwood Whitney
J. Walter Thompson Company plans for 1931
Media aspects of radio advertising; network vs. spot broadcasting; broadcast coverage; Howard Meighan
What the Information and Records Division of the Research Department is Doing to Help You; "reason why" advertising; legal aspects of advertising; F.A. Bell
J. Walter Thompson's downtown (Wall Street) office; securities and investment market; "Investment Chalk Talk"; William Kennedy
Advertising copy; "critical one percent" vs. mass audience; "Sales Training Course" by Standard Brands; William Day
Johns-Manville Corporation; William Palmer
Engraving and printing in advertising; color photography; four-color newspaper printing; Richard Huntington
On the Practice of Selective Distribution by Richmond Watson; distribution costs
British Columbia Packers Ltd.; Clover Leaf Salmon; Canadian advertising; Montreal Office; advertising recipe booklet; advertising test campaigns; Robert Flood
Type in advertising; typography; BBDO; Standard Brands; international new business; Janet Cunningham
Advertising appropriations; Stanley Resor; John Watson; Stewart MimsJ.M. Woodworth
Johns-Manville advertising; Swift & Company; B. F. Goodrich; Silvertown Safety League; William Palmer; William Resor
On the Handling of Radio Programs; Radio Department; radio production; Abbot K. Spencer
Gorham Silver Hunt Club campaign; sterling silver industry; launch of new silverware pattern; jewelry stores; window and counter displays; Edward Fuller
Lecture Delivered to Each Standard Brands Incorporated Sales Training Class by John B. Watson
Hathaway Bakeries; market for bread; door-to-door sales; Lloyd Baillie
Lecture Delivered to Each Standard Brands Incorporated Sales Training Class by William L. Day
Speech made to the New Members' group meeting; Stanley Resor
Copy from an Art Director's Standpoint by James Yates; Standard Brands
Notes of the Speech Made by Mr. Richmond Watson to the New Members' Group Meeting
Methods of Determining Advertising Appropriations by Arno Johnson; charts on advertising budgets
Carter's Ink account; ink and fountain pen industries; Germany; long term advertising contracts; Clement Watson; Kennett Hinks
South Africa Office; history and description of South Africa; Francis McArdle
Copenhagen Office; Stockholm Office; Denmark market; Alpha Margarine; Alwether coats; Diamond Polish; Gluten Flour; A&P; "Chaining the Chain Stores"; "Uncle Sam's Peacetime Plan for War"; Philip Richardson
Cutex account; Wrigley; Kodak; Jergen's; William Resor
A Media Man's Viewpoint on Newspaper Copy by Edwin Cummings; Chase & Sanborn radio program; newspaper readership
The J. Walter Thompson Conception of Merchandising by Lloyd Baillie; General Foods; Population and Its Distribution; Swift Radio Program
The Production of Trade and Technical Advertising by C.F. Bell; magazine circulation
Johns-Manville; Pennsylvania Railroad account; National Outdoor Advertising Burear; outdoor advertising; Stewart Mims
J. Walter Thompson Company in Argentina; Plan and Data Form; C. Russell Pierce (JWT Buenos Aires)
Credit and business conditions; duplication of magazine circulation (two subscriptions in one home); John Esty
Scott Paper; J. Walter Thompson Company in Poland and Sweden; George Richardson
The Federal Trade Commission and the Tainted Testimonial--Earle Clark; Royal Baking Powder; Standard Brands; Wrigley; FTC v. Raladam Company (U.S. Supreme Court)
Problems of loose talk; production of radio programs; ; prospects of television; Gordon Thompson; J.C. Penney
Nestle's account' Lloyd Baillie; subway posters; concentration of effort
News vs. Copy--Newspaper Practices (Savington Crampton); B.F. Goodrich; newspaper examples
The Use of the Negative Copy Appeal--Henry Legler;
Plan Board activities (Ruth Waldo); Trade Department (Sidney Dean); Investigation Department (Richmond Watson); Radio Department (Abbott Spencer); Atlantic Coast Fisheries; Chase & Sanborn; Fleischmann's Yeast; Nestle; Kodak; Scott Paper; Smith Corona; Royal
History of Kops Brothers account (William Palmer); general business climate; William Resor
Harvard Bureau of Business Research Chain Grocery Store Study analysis (Richmond Watson); engravers and electrotypers costs
Jergens Lotion account; Ruth Waldo; Staff Meetings speaker outline
Radio Department; "The Vices of Free Competition" (Philip Cabot, from the Yale Review); John Reber; Amos 'n Andy; advertising rates; investigations; Richmond Watson
Activities of the Antwerp Office (Adrian Head); overview of Europe; language diversity; Berlin Offce (Kennett Hinks)
The United States Rubber Company investigation; Stewart Mims
Magazine circulation; John Esty
Rowntree marketing study; Arno Johnson; London Office
Radio talent; Calvin Kuhl; Smith Corona
Production costs; John Weber; electrotyping
City Baking Company account; Lloyd Bailie; tests in radio media; John Reber; Jergens; name changing Investigations Department to Research Department; profile of Wrigley
Report on chain drug store study; Federal Trade Commission; regulation of advertising; Northam Warren; fleischmann
Wall Street (Downtown) Office; Melvin Woodworth; securities and finance advertising; economic conditions; Who's Who in Good Housekeeping Advertising Agency Records for 1931
J. Walter Thompson Company in 1931 and 1932; William Resor; agency performance; Pennsylvania Railroad; Smith Corona; Johns-Manville; Sharp & Dohme; Research Department; outdoor advertising; radio advertising; new business; international advertising
Discussion of copy tests; Lloyd Baillie
The Modern Fetich--Organization; William Day
Discussion of the independent grocer's problems; Kelsey Denton
Competitive agency practice in radio advertising;
Standard Brands of Canada; Gillett; Magic Baking Powder; Fleischmann;
Pricing Policy in the Current phase of business--Gilbert Kinney; price vs. volume; Scott Tissue; A&P; China
Responsibilities of the creative team; William Day; Advisory Committee; Creative Organization
Study of comics ; Ruth Waldo; comic strips and cartoons; General cigar
The Cutex account (Margaret King); Ruth Waldo; B.F. Goodrich; Electrical Association; Actin;
General Cigar (Ruth Waldo); Pyrex; radio advertising (Robert Colwell); the Advertising Committee's work; William Day; Vermont Maid Syrup
Headline writing in newspapers; Henry Legler; Vermont Maid Syrup
Trade advertising; copy writers; Vermont Maid Syrup; Scott Tissue; Cutex Hand Cream; Ruth Waldo
Chase & Sanborn's Coffee; Electrical Association; newspaper technique; copy tests; newspapers; Savington Crampton
Black Starr & Frost; Gorham; Fleischmann's; Portussin; Standard Brands dividend check folder; Vermont Maid; methods of producing copy; Ruth Waldo; N.W. Ayer; Young & Rubicam
Lux Toilet Soap; Rinso; Rowntree; London Office; British advertising
Lever Brothers; Lux Toilet Soap; Elizabeth Devree; testimonial advertising; comic strip advertising
"Our Experiences in Newspaper Advertising"; chain stores; grocery stores
"The Chain Stores and How to Deal with Them"; A. & P.; Lever Brothers; J. & J. Colman; Certo; Stewart Mims; John Esty; William Palmer
"The Chain Stores and How Our Clients are Dealing with Them"; Hellman's; Krumm's Macaroni; City Baking Company; Baker's Coconut; Phenix Cheese; Welch; Royal; Lloyd Baillie; John Watson; Gilbert Kinney
Cheek-Neal Coffee Co.; Advertising Counsel
Distribution census; wholesale and retail trade; newspapers; William Resor; Paul Cherington
Real Silk; Piggly Wiggly; Scott Paper; J.C. Penney; National Radiator Company; Standard Oil; Meredith Publications; Dairy Farmer; Vogue; John Reber; William Day
Welch Grape Juice; Welch-Ade; Gilbert Kinney
Newspaper advertising
Squibbs Perfume; Bovril; Ponds; Agfa; Nestles Hair Waving; Gillette; Campbell's Soup; Shredded Wheat; newspaper test campaign
Nestle Hair Waving; United Fruit; American Radiator; Horton's Ice Cream; DuPont; American Bemberg Corporation; Crowell; Ladies' Home Journal; Scientific American; John Reber
Piggly Wiggly
Piggly Wiggly; Distribution Census; Sterling Remedies; Nestles Hair Waving; United Fruit; Union Tobacco; Log Cabin Syrup; Luden's Cough Drop; Welch Grape Juice; Simmons; Federal Radio
European offices; Royal; Lux; Dominion Rubber Company; Gruen Guild; Continental Baking; Hooven & Allison Company; question of opening Toronto office
A. & P. Tea Company; "Chain Stores in the Grocery Field"
Globe-Wernicke; N. W. Ayer; General Motors; Ligget's Grand Central; Owl Drug Company; Piggly Wiggly; Norwich Pharmacal; Dow Drug Company; Plan Board
Creative Organization Staff Meetings were held on a weekly basis between March 1932 and May 1933 with several additional meetings occurring in January and February 1934. Top company officials including the creative staff attended the meetings at which such topics as advertising practices, client campaigns, research efforts, international branch activities, and legal aspects of advertising were discussed. One staff member usually lectured on a specific subject. [Source: Accession record.]
Chase & Sanborn's Coffee; Drug Sundries; Royal Gelatin; Chevrolet; Frigidaire; Pine Tree Shilling; Knox Hat; sales conferences; promotional movies; Ruth Waldo
Carter's Underwear; French's Mustard; mail-order advertising testing; advertising copy testing; Pond's; Lux Toilet Soap; Chase and Sanborn; Fleischmann
Radio advertising; Hathaway's Bread; French's Mustard; Brer Rabbit; typography; Janet Cunningham
Chase & Sanborn's Tea; Pond's; Fleischmann's; Lux Flakes; radio advertising and drama; history of advertising since 1898
Gorham; French's Mustard; Viyella Fabrics and Yarns; health and vitamins in advertising; health products
Scott Tissue Paper; medical opinions on abrasive impurities in toilet tissue; Henry Legler; European advertising; Henry Flower; Kennett Hinks
Johns-Manville Company; William McKeehan
General Motors Corporation; General Foods Corporation; advertising copy; advertising in the comics; Hawley Turner
Jergens Lotion account; Ruth Waldo; Philip Richardson; advertising in Sweden
Selling in relation to creative work in advertising; Lloyd Baillie
Retail marketing; floor and window displays; Margaret Noon
Baltimore City Baking; Chase & Sanborn's Tea; scientific investigation; American Medical Association; General Motors; Therese Olzendam; employment of science in advertising; William Day; Therese Olzendam
Legal phases of advertising; "Lying and Stealing"--Misrepresentation; defamation; right of privacy; appropriation of property rights;
Rowntree Candies of Canada; impressions of Hollywood; Ruth Waldo; Savington Crampton
French's Mustard; Fifth Avenue Week; 5th Avenue Association; retail window displays; Ruth Waldo; Alice Coester; Patricia Krell
Radio Department; Brer Rabbit Molasses; Royal Baking Powder; Davey Tree Surgery; Vigoro; Fleischmann's Yeast; William Day; John Reber
Technocracy; economic theory; Quincy Howe (editor, Living Age); Howard Scott (founder of technocracy movement); "Technocracy" (Living Age); "Facts and Threats of Technocracy" (Iron Age)
Technocratic theories; John Herbert Van Deventer (editor, Iron Age)
Experiences in Russia; photography; Margaret Bourke-White
Tower Magazine Group; F.W. Woolworth stores; middle-class families; retail store development; Catherine McNelis (publisher, Tower Magazines)
Techniques of photography; Helen Smith
Premiums in advertising and selling schemes; Tiger Coal
Advertising during a depression; Thomas McLaughlin (Saturday Evening Post)
Merchandising; the function of a research department; Lloyd Baillie
Comic and cartoon art; Jacob Gortatowsky (Hearst Comics)
New business activities; William Palmer; Erwin Wasey
Newspaper and specialty features; Ward Greene (King Features)
Current advertising problems: sales; store displays; media Lloyd Baillie
Sales statistics in advertising; advertising terrorities; advertising copy testing; Lloyd Baillie
Radio advertising; radio rusic; Russell Bennett
Federal Trade Commission; misleading advertising; advertising testimonials; Food and Drug Act; Dr. John A. Killian; the application of research in biochemistry to manufacturing and advertising; Dana Ackerly (Breed, Abbott & Morgan)
Consumer reactions at World's Fair; Rohe Walter; Daniel Starch
Dr. Daniel Starch's Advertising Service; quantitative analysis of magazine readers; Claude Hooper (Daniel Starch)
Argentina; Arthur Farlow (JWT Buenos Aires);
Fanny A. Bell's speech on legal issues in advertising
The JWT Forum represented a resumption of the Creative Organization staff meetings. The new meetings, attended by top company officials and the creative staff, were held bi-weekly and featured lectures by staff members. Discussions included advertising practices, client campaigns, activities of domestic branch offices, and legal aspects of advertising. [Source: Accession records]
"Bad Taste in Advertising"--Wallace Boren
"Is Advertising Honest?"--William Palmer
"Is Advertising Copy in a Period of Decadence?"--Henry Legler
"The Natural-Born Salesman"--Henry Flower
"Premiums"--Russell Pierce
"Regaining Lost Leadership"--William Day
"Ballantine"--William McKeehan
"Nobody Reads the Copy"--Henry Legler
Outdoor advertising; George Diebert; Elwood Whitney
Eastman Kodak Company; Thayer Jaccaci
Emerson Drug Company; Philip Richardson
"Speaking for the Company"--Lynn Baker
J. B. Williams Company; William Resor
"Analysis of the Urban versus the Rural Markets of the United States"--Arno Johnson
"Advertising Roots Go Deep"--Howard Henderson
"The Robertson-Patman Act"--Russell Pierce
"Shell's 1937 Dealer Slide Film"--Steve Kenyon
Lever Brothers; William Palmer
"A Discussion of Consumer Premiums"--John Hosch Jr.
"Apology for Today in Advertising"--William Day
Discussion of the current status and future possibilities of commercial motion pictures--Fred Fidler
"Commercial Movies"--Fred Fidler
"Copy Testing"--James Young
"The Wheeler Lee Bill"--Dr. John A. Killian
"Life Under the Federal Trade Commission"--Fanny Bell
Materials removed from meetings of Feb. 4 and Mar. 3: Advertisements for Fleischmann's Yeast (1936) and Woodbury Facial Soap (1936); H.E. Ingram Longwear Shoes Sales-Mover sales talking points bulletin (1934).
Monday Evening Meetings were enrichment lectures given by outside speakers and presented each week from March through May 1930 in the JWT Assembly Hall. Speakers included editors and publishers, Clarence Darrow, Rudy Vallee, and Will Hays, the motion picture censor. Stanley Resor also gave one talk regarding his trip to the JWt west coast branch offices.
"A Talk Given by Mr. Harcourt, President of Harcourt, Brace & Company"; the public's reaction to books; Alfred Harcourt
"A Talk Given by Mr. Joseph P. Day, President of Joseph P. Day Realty Company"; personal experiences in real estate
"A Talk Given by Merrill Goddard"; mentality of today and its origins in antiquity
"A Talk Given by Mr. James Quirk, Editor of Photoplay Magazine"; psychology of the motion picture in relation to advertising
"A Talk Given by Rudy Vallee"; study of the American public
"A Talk Given by William Chennery, Editor of Collier's Weekly"; Collier's weekly and what Chennery did to revive it
"A Talk Given by Mr. Stanley Resor, President of the J. Walter Thompson Company"; JWT California Office
"A Talk Given by Mr. Clarence Darrow"; autobiography and personal philosophy
"A Talk Given by 'Roxy' Mr. Samuel L. Rothapfel"; ideas of motion picture theater and showmanship
"A Talk Given by Mr. Will Hays"; Standards of motion picture production
"A Talk Given by Mr. Isaac Marcosson of the Saturday Evening Post"; interviewing prominent persons
"A Talk Given by Mr. Loring A Schuler, Editor of the Ladies Home Journal"; Editorial policy of the Ladies Home Journal
The Men's Apprentice Group, composed of new employees at the JWT New York Office, was established in 1935. Members of the group attended weekly luncheon meetings chaired by Howard Kohl and generally featured a company speaker, frequently Fanny Bell of the Research Department. The group also published a bi-weekly newsletter from 1935-1938 originally called the Junior News Letter and then the Flash. A Women's Apprentice Group was founded in 1937. [Source: Accession records.]
Speech by Fanny A. Bell; "Future Vice Presidents of What-You-Will!"
Speech by Fanny A. Bell; Legal Department
The JWT Junior Forum was a lecture series held during 1951 and 1952 in the Chicago Office. Executives of JWT spoke at periodic luncheon meetings to "younger members of the organization." Topics of these lectures included JWT history, the advertising industry, the functions of specific departments, advertising techniques, and client case studies. [Source: Accession records.]
General background on the agency business and J. Walter Thompson Company in particular--George Reeves
Principles of copywriting from the JWT standpoint--Kenneth Ward
What is an advertising executive?--Alexander Gunn
Art direction--General--Frederick Boulton
Research Department functions and methods--H.C. Campbell
Media Department functions--George Pearson
Mechanical production--E. Thomas McBreen
Public Relations-Publicity Department--C. Stuart Siebert Jr.
Testing advertising
Traffic control system--Ward Weist
Electronic advertising media--Hal Rorke
Production of TV commercials--Peter Cavallo Jr.
Home Economics Department--Mabel Anderson
Media Department, outdoor advertising--C.J. Keenan
Merchandising--Charles Holcomb
The J. Walter Thompson Company Consumer Purchase Panel--W.S. O'Donnell
Are copywriters born that way?--Elizabeth Blackman
Radio and Television time-buying--Edward Fitzgerald
Art techniques in advertising--Lou Ingwersen
Case history of Kraft De Luxe Slices--Thomas Wason
Case history of Window Shade Institute campaigns--Theodore Weldon
What is advertising and why do people advertise?--C.S. Lund
The "which", "why" and "when" of contests and premiums--Allen Center
Creative process in the television film commercial--Otis Carney
Newspapers as an advertising medium--A.G. Ensrud
Case study of Libby--Theodore Jardine
The JWT-Chicago Television-Radio-Film Department--Peter Cavallo Jr.
Another problem solved by advertising
This collection is grouped by country and includes submissions on innovation and milestones as determined by JWT executives. These materials were submitted as part of a larger JWT Traveling Archives project in 1994. Countries represented include Japan, South Africa, India, Brazil, Spain, and Australia. Also includes a brief history of the JWT Company.
Treasurer's Office Records span the years from 1928-1952, although the bulk of the material dates from 1928 to the 1940s. The collection documents the financial operations of JWT offices around the world and to a lesser extent in the United States. The materials consist of correspondence, financial records, and legal documents relating to the activities of JWT's Treasurer's Office. Correspondents include Earle Clark (Treasurer, 1921-39), Donald C. Foote, (Assistant Treasurer in charge of accounting and budgeting in JWT's international operations, 1937-52), Luther O. Lemon (Assistant Treasurer and Comptroller, 1937-46; Treasurer, 1946-57), and Sam Meek (Vice President in charge of International Operations 1930-64); senior staff members in domestic and international offices; JWT's legal counsel; and representatives from numerous financial institutions. Multinational clients represented in the International Offices Series are the Eastman Kodak Company, the Kellogg Company, the Gillette Company, RCA, and Reader's Digest. International offices well-documented include those in Antwerp, Berlin, Bombay, Bucharest, London, and Mexico City. Records for many of JWT's offices are not included in the Treasurer's Office Records, which indicates that the files in their present form may be incomplete.
The Domestic Offices Series focuses particularly on the New York, Detroit, and San Francisco offices. In addition to documenting routine matters relating to budgets, billing, and salaries, the records include material relating to the regulation of testimonial advertising by the Federal Trade Commission in 1929-1930.
The International Offices Series documents the complex relationship between the New York office and the several foreign offices of the company, especially offices in Antwerp, Berlin, Bombay, Bucharest, London, and Mexico City. A primary focus of the series is the legal and financial difficulties JWT faced as it attempted to expand abroad during a time of rising nationalism in many of the countries in which the company had offices. The impact of World War II on JWT especially the Bombay and Paris offices is documented, as well as the impact of the 1947 partition of India on JWT operations in India. The files also document JWT's efforts in the 1930s to develop radio advertising in Mexico, Belgium, and England. The series is divided into the following subseries: JWT International Corporation, Antwerp Office, Berlin Office, Bombay Office, Bucharest Office, London Office, and Mexico City Office.
Chiefly contains the correspondence of JWT Treasurer's Office staff (especially Earle Clark and Luther O. Lemon) with company personnel in other domestic offices, legal counsel, and banking representatives. The series also includes legal documents, memoranda, financial reports, and board meeting minutes. The contents are arranged in alphabetical order by subject, with the subjects falling into three broad categories: files relating to the JWT Advertising Corporation, files relating to JWT domestic offices other than the New York Office, and files relating to general financial matters.
The JWT Advertising Corporation was a subsidiary of the JWT Company established in 1931 at One Wall Street, New York City, New York, at least partly to facilitate the company's work for clients located in Manhattan's financial district. These files include corporate documents such as minutes, office leases, profit and loss sheets, billings, and tax returns.
Treasurer's Office files for offices outside New York relate chiefly to San Francisco and Detroit, with the bulk addressing routine questions relating to office expenditures, overhead charges, and billing procedures. These files also contain a memorandum from W. F. Howard to Norman H. Strouse (8-31-49, in Detroit Office folder) presenting a detailed case for the installation of air conditioning in the Detroit offices. Records for the payment of several thousands of dollars in club fees for Detroit's managerial staff can be found in the Detroit Office file in the years 1947-1948. Several letters discuss how to handle requests for charitable contributions (Luther O. Lemon to Thelma Hardy, 6-13-49, and Luther O. Lemon to Fred Fidler, 6-17-49, both in the San Francisco Office file; W. F. Howard to Henry C. Flower, 5-25-50, and Norman F. Strouse to Luther O. Lemon, 10-17-50, both in the Detroit Office file; see also Subscriptions and Veterans Guidance in Advertising).
Files relating to general financial matters contain documents on a wide variety of topics of interest to the Treasurer's Office. Several folders, for example, are devoted to limiting particular kinds of corporate expenses, such as telegrams and telephone calls. One folder contains information on the New York Disability Benefits Law of 1949 and the company's efforts to comply with the new regulations, while another folder contains documents discussing the Federal Trade Commission's restrictions on the use of testimonials, or personality advertising. Yet another folder, titled Unions, contains a published report from the New York Department of Labor (1942) determining a minimum recommended salary for women employees, along with an itemized budget that supports the Department's recommendations.
Chiefly contains correspondence between JWT officers in New York (especially Donald C. Foote and Earle Clark in the Treasurer's Office; and Sam Meek, Vice President in charge of International Operations, 1930-1964) and the managers of the international offices. The series also includes legal documents, board meeting minutes, and financial reports (such as operating budgets, balance sheets, tax assessments, and cash account audits).
Three broad areas of concern dominate the files: finance, law, and personnel. Financial issues include overdue accounts, currency exchange rates, overhead charges, stock reclassifications, commission rates, conflicts of interest, profits and losses, and tardy expense and revenue reports.
Most legal questions revolve around the incorporation of the parent company, JWT International, and the effort to obtain national charters for the various overseas offices--a move calculated to accommodate local clients' growing preference for doing business with an agency chartered locally. In the cases of the Bucharest and Berlin offices, the local agency was sold to national members of the staff because it was impossible to obtain a national charter without JWT directors in New York losing their controlling interest in the local company. The JWT office managers also reported on tax laws, import restrictions and political changes that might affect advertising revenues.
In the area of personnel, a large portion of correspondence deals with salary and profit-sharing arrangements for high-ranking members of the managerial staff. Also included are disputes regarding expense accounts, Christmas bonuses, transfer requests, home leave, and life insurance. Aside from revealing employee judgments about the fairness of certain company policies, these exchanges also document managers' dissatisfactions with working among people of other ethnic backgrounds and the hardships of life in an alien society (e.g., separation from family, decreased earnings due to unstable currencies, and exposure to tropical illnesses).
Most documents in the JWT International Corporation Subseries date from 1928-1931, and they relate to the formation of a separate company called JWT International. These items appear to make up Treasurer Earle Clark's personal files, complete with handwritten notes and calculations for a variety of possible terms of incorporation and stock classifications. These files contain several drafts of the Articles of Incorporation and By-laws of the new corporation; correspondence with JWT's New York legal counsel, Breed, Abbot and Morgan; and further correspondence with the various heads of JWT's foreign offices. A 1928 summary of JWT's financial status is also included in the files, apparently because it served as part of the basis for early deliberations about the creation of JWT International.
A few documents in the International Corporation files date much later, from 1945 to 1946. They include itemized lists of billings and profits for foreign offices over the previous ten to fifteen years.
The principal correspondents in Antwerp were Edward E. Pratt, L.R. Deke Coleman, J. H. Cerny, and Rene -P. Jeanneret. The Antwerp file also contains correspondence between Donald Foote and managers of offices in Paris, Amsterdam, and the Hague. Several issues addressed in the correspondence indicate the challenges JWT faced in their overseas operations. For example, an exchange between Donald Foote and J. H. Cerny discusses the financial issues involved in expanding into radio advertising in Antwerp (12-5-34, 1-4-35). Also, Jeanneret commented to Foote (6-25-35) about the objections Catholic papers raised against advertisements--particularly one that depicted women models wearing pants and exposing navel and thighs. During World War II, Jeanneret and Coleman reported to Sam Meek on conditions in occupied France (7-19-40 and 9-10-40).
Fritz Solm served as head of Berlin operations, and the Berlin office files record the communications among Solm (in Berlin), L. R. Coleman and Henry C. Flower (in Paris), Paul Leverkuehn (Berlin legal counsel), Donald Foote (in New York) and F. C. Wallace (representative of Guaranty Trust Company in New York). In 1934 Solm agreed to purchase control of the Berlin office, and the bulk of the material concerns that agreement. Delays in the payment process prompted L.R. Deke Coleman to make some colorful and disparaging remarks about his dealings with Germans (in letters to Foote, 11-7-38 and 11-24-38). The same letters contain vague references to blackmail in Solm's dealings with German tax authorities, and to Solm's fears that unspecified activities in the New York office could land him in prison.
The Bombay office was established in 1929 and this subseries documents its operations beginning that year under Frank R. J. Gerard. From 1930 to 1949, Edward J. Pete Fielden served as senior manager of the Bombay operations, along with its branch offices in Calcutta and New Delhi. Fielden's most prominent assistants were Denys Scott in Bombay and Peter Petroushka de Peterson in Calcutta.
JWT's operations in India were profitable throughout World War II, but not without many hardships, including Japanese air raids, the threat of conscription of key personnel, and low morale due to the postponement of home leave. The political instability surrounding India's post-war partitioning also created unfavorable working conditions for JWT's employees in India. Several of Fielden's letters to New York deal at length with the impact of domestic and international politics upon both advertising interests, and the staff's health and safety (10-28-38, 8-2-40, 10-1-40, 1-7-43, 6-11-46, 9-2-47, 4-4-49, 5-4-49, 6-6-49).
In their salary negotiations, Denys Scott (letter, 6-8-48) and Peter de Peterson (letters, 11-17-40, 2-23-42, 10-15-43) outlined the obstacles European staff members confronted in maintaining a European lifestyle in India. Also, in a dispute about his expense account, Peterson alluded to certain entertainment expenses--which he felt obliged to incur for his guests--related to an arrangement for several young women to attend a business dinner (letter to Fielden, 12-16-48). And in reinstating life insurance for the Indian personnel, management encountered resentment from employees who were unwilling to designate themselves by race as either White or Negro, as the American forms required (Denys Scott to Foote, 9-18-48).
The correspondence chiefly concerns JWT's sale of its Bucharest office to local manager, Hratchia Paniguian. JWT's insistence upon payment in United States dollars complicated the transaction because it entailed the violation of Romanian law concerning currency exchange. Also, one of Paniguian's employees, Andre B. Kalman, was forced to leave Romania because of growing anti-Jewish sentiment, and JWT helped to arrange his safe passage (L.R. Coleman's letter to Foote 1-4-38, and the file titled International Travel, 1940-1941).
The senior staff of the London office consisted of Rae H. Smith, Ed Gordon, L.R. Starkey, and Andrew Sinclair. Because London was JWT's first international office, the company used its arrangements with London to help establish policies for all its overseas operations. Negotiations about profit-sharing and salaries are therefore well-documented.
Several other features make the London Office Files distinctive. They include documents regarding the 1946 suicide of the senior manager of the office, Rae Smith, and the company's efforts to purchase his estate's extensive stock-holdings in JWT. One file, labeled Kodak, 1934-1935, contains a 17-page memo written by a Kodak employee to his superior, attempting to refute allegations that JWT violated the terms of its contract with Kodak. Another file, titled Recordings in Hollywood, 1937-1938, relates to legal problems JWT faced in using radio programs and advertisements recorded in the United States for its London operations. Scattered throughout the London Office Files are at least ten letters written by JWT President Stanley Resor--most of them concerning the letter of terms for advertising clients and profit-sharing policies with key London personnel.
These files record the opening of the Mexico City office in 1943 under the management of John Kuneau. After three consecutive years of financial losses, he was replaced by Donaldson Thorburn. Kuneau's letters to New York include frequent discussions of international clients such as Gillette, Kellogg's, RCA, and Reader's Digest. Two letters to Foote (1-29-44 and 5-10-45) provide profiles of the members of the Mexico City staff, along with comments about economic conditions, client accounts, and advertising strategies (with special attention to radio programs and contests). A letter from Don E. Widlundth to Donaldson Thorburn (5-2-46) discusses an experimental run of six one-minute Reader's Digest films. A small glimpse into JWT's corporate culture may be gained from a handwritten letter by a Mrs. Bill Taylor to Sam Meek (11-22-47), detailing the hardships her family faced when her husband unexpectedly lost his job in Mexico City. Her outcry prompted JWT to send the family four hundred dollars as compensation for some of their expenses.
Materials in this collection include a mixture of formats documenting the aftermath of the Kanto earthquake. A set of 18 postcards, tinted with color in some cases, contain photographs of wrangled railroad systems, destroyed buildings, evacuees, and mass casualties from the earthquake. And additional 120 postcards with similar content, some with Japanese captions, were added in 2016. There is a photo-illustrated pamphlet, which includes black and white images of the devestated areas. Also included is a copy of International Graphic Magazine, which includes reporting in Japanese as well as images from the disaster. This magazine appears to be missing its back cover. Two special issues of Daishinsai Shashin Gaho, from September and October 1923, include photo illustrations of destruction along with early attempts at rescue and recovery. Finally, the collection includes two folded color maps of Tokyo and the affected area, and a scrapbook of newsprint and printed images from after the earthquake. The scrapbook has been bound as a folio, and its news articles are also in Japanese.
The collection contains correspondence, writings and addresses, journals, reports, clippings and assorted print matter. Materials present primarily reflect Kaufman's environmental activism while residing in rural Chatham County, North Carolina and his consulting work with the World Bank and the International City/County Management Association in the former Soviet Union and Eastern Bloc. Correspondence mostly documents Kaufman's role with the Conservation Council of North Carolina and the organization's collaboration with other local, regional, and national environmental organizations.
The journals and reports document Kaufman's work in former Soviet nations. They describe Kaufman's day to day activities in Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Kazakhstan, and Poland that include descriptions of local customs and geographic regions, the difficulties and challenges inherent in transition from collectivism to privatization, and surveys of local businesses and manufactories. Also present in the collection is material documenting Kaufman's relationship with author Reynolds Price. This material includes mostly correspondence as well as several manuscripts and typescripts. The correspondence touches upon personal matters as well as professional including the activities of mutual friends and acquaintances, travels, and current works in progress.
Autograph manuscript letter with postmarked envelope from the actress and writer Fanny Kemble in London to Miss Patteson in Andover, 10 May, 1889. Kemble thanks Miss Patterson for sending photographs, mentioning that she particularly values one of Bishop Patteson. She says she is "glad Lord Coleridge thought Lenox (Mass.) pretty. It has always seemed to me a charming mountain village."
Collection of 31 black-and-white prints by noted photographer André Kertész provides a portfolio representing the full range of his compositional styles and topical interests. Taken from 1919 through the 1980s, the end years of his career, the images chiefly feature street scenes from Paris in the 1920s and 1930s and 1980s, with a few street scenes from Budapest (1919 and 1920), and a handful from New York City from his later years in that city, with one from 1939. There are two photographs from the 1930s series "Distortions," featuring female nudes with distortion effects. Several images include cats and dogs. There are a handful of landscapes with no known location, and two still lifes.
The majority of the prints are sized 8x10 inches, with four measuring 11x14 inches. They bear various markings on the backs, including crop marks, dates, and identifying marks by Kertész and others. All but five are marked with the Kertész estate stamp; several bear the photographer's stamp.
Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
Budafolk is a neighborhood in Budapest, Hungary.
The Susan Ketchin Papers span the years from about 1980 through 1994, and consist chiefly of professional correspondence, manuscripts of her writings and the writings of others, reviews, publications, printed matter, teaching materials, and other papers relating principally to her work with the ST. ANDREWS REVIEW, SOUTHERN EXPOSURE, the Algonquin Press, and the Duke Young Writers Camp. Some papers also document her freelance work. Access to the Roper, Benson, and August House papers is restricted; for details, please contact the Rubenstein reference staff. One large group of materials was generated in the process of producing and writing THE CHRIST-HAUNTED LANDSCAPE: FAITH AND DOUBT IN SOUTHERN FICTION. These materials include research files, audio tapes of interviews with authors featured in the book (Doris Betts, Randall Kenan, Allan Gurganus, Lee Smith, Larry Brown, Sheila Bosworth, and others), and typescripts. Other authors represented in the papers but whose interview tapes are not present are Reynolds Price and Clyde Edgerton. A video featuring Lee Smith is also included.
Chiefly papers documenting Ketchin's work for the literary magazines Southern Exposure and the St. Andrews Review, and for Algonquin Press. Also includes some teaching material and freelance work, along with songs, music, and sermons. Contents are in original folder order as received.
Chiefly folders on Ketchin's research on religious themes in Southern literature, culminating in her work, The Christ-Haunted Landscape: Faith and Doubt in Southern Fiction. Includes production work, publisher-related and fan correspondence, interview tapes and transcripts with major Southern authors, and permissions files.
Current.
Includes Ralph C. Wood's article.
Including versions of interview.
The papers of Carl Howie King and of Mary Eskridge King span the dates 1918-1973 and document aspects of Methodism and politics and social movements in North Carolina during the later part of the 20th century. C. H. King was executive secretary of the Methodist Board of Education of the Western North Carolina Conference, 1934-1967. His papers, housed in the Carl King Papers and Writings Series, consist principally of letters from people to whom he had sent copies of his pamphlet, "Historical Highlights of the Educational Ministry." Also present are materials from his student days at Trinity College (now Duke University), Durham, N.C., and Yale. Mary Eskridge King was active in affairs of the Methodist Episcopal Church, South, and president of the Women’s Society of Christian Service of the Western North Carolina Conference, 1960-1964. Her papers, in the Mary Eskridge King Series which forms the majority of the collection, concern her activities in Methodist affairs on the local, regional, and national level, as president of the Women’s Society of Christian Service, and her service on various other church boards and special committees. Topics of interest in her papers include Methodism and public affairs, including political conservatism and the John Birch Society, the Civil Rights movement, prayer in schools, the Vietnam War, student unrest, and communism.
Subject files include notes; research materials; newspaper clippings, magazines; reports, many from human rights organizations; correspondence; copies of governmental documents; notebooks; and other items on human rights, primarily in Peru. There are small amounts of material related to Colombia, Haiti and the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, and Bolivia. At the time these files were created, Kirk was serving both as a journalist and a Human Rights Watch researcher. Publications primarily address politics and human rights issues, particularly in Colombia.
Subject files include notes; research materials; newspaper clippings, magazines; reports, many from human rights organizations; correspondence; copies of governmental documents; notebooks; and other items on human rights, primarily in Peru. There are small amounts of material related to Colombia, Haiti and the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, and Bolivia. At the time these files were created, Kirk was serving both as a journalist and a Human Rights Watch researcher.
Publications primarily address politics and human rights issues, particularly in Colombia.
Collection spans 1952-1991 and includes correspondence, storyboards and commercial scripts, reports, print advertisements and drafts of Korda's writings including her novel Having It All and television pilot proposal scripts. Companies represented include Gillette Gimbel's and Macy's department stores, Ogilvy & Mather, Hathaway shirts, Pepperidge Farm and Schweppes. Cosmetics advertising includes Gillette (Eve of Roma), Helena Rubenstein and Unilever (Dove soap). Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Correspondence, commercial scripts and other printed materials
Includes correspondence, commercial scripts and other advertising copy, print advertisements, and reports.
Includes short stories, proposals for television pilots and sample scripts, and drafts and published versions of Korda's novel Having it all, along with an unpublished book-length manuscript.
Collection includes print advertisements, storyboards, sketches, scripts for radio and television commercials, photographs, slides, other printed materials, audio tape reels and television commercials on videotape and 16mm and 35mm films. Companies represented include Benton & Bowles, Bushmill's, Chesebrough-Pond's, Drackett (Nutrament), Eastern Airlines, General Foods (Sanka, Yuban), Goodyear, Gulf Oil, Kemp Seafood, Piels beer, Procter & Gamble, Texaco, Trygg Hansa, United Fruit (Chiquita) and Young & Rubicam. Materials are in English, German and Swedish. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Includes Bolla, Bushmills Whiskey; Texaco
Includes Eckrich Meats, Procter & Gamble (Crest, Full Course, Omni, Task), Yuban
Includes Advertising Age, Morgan Stanley
Includes work from Germany (Pond's, United Fruit/Chiquita, Ludwig Eches/Chantre, Oil of Olay) and Sweden (Trygg Hansa Insurance, Gevalia, Bregott, Opel Rallye, Mum 21)
Goodyear "Glass Test"; Renuzit "Norman"; Behold "Crayon"; Windex "I Can See Clearly" "Submarine"; Gulf "Drain Change" "Hitchhiker"; Dash "Closet"; Lipton "Football" "Military"
Mum 21; Gevalia Coffee; Trygghansa; Eckrich animated spots
Opel Rallye; Bregott; Trygghansa Beach
Enough; Parking Lot; Snorkel; Check Research
Pond's "Second Face"; Chiquita "Astronaut"; Oil of Olay "Verushka"; Chantre "Customs"
Includes: Goodyear, Windex, Gulf, Lipton, Bolla, Crest, Eckrich, Yuban, German Pond's, Astronaut, Verushka, Shantray, Opel Rallye, Nipples, Boat, Margarine, Slick Tire, Old Lady
Consists of a letter from Pryce to Harris, dated October 7, 1965, promoting Harris to the position of Director of Agency Operations. The letter was a prop used in Season 4, Episode 13, "Tomorrowland" that originally aired on 2010 October 17. Included are an envelope bearing the Sterling Cooper Draper Pryce logo and an certificate of authenticity. Acquired as part the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Collection comprises correspondence and other papers of Daniel William Lassiter, and of his sons, Francis Rives Lassiter, lawyer and U.S. Representative from Virginia, and Charles Trotter Lassiter, politician. Much of the correspondence concerns the political career of Francis R. Lassiter. Includes information on Confederate recruitment, politicians after the Civil War, Presidential elections, the Virginia militia, and economic conditions in the U.S. Correspondents include Henry Mills Alden, Thomas Baily Aldrich, John Hollis Bankhead, Harry Flood Byrd, Champ Clark, John Warwick Daniel, Henry De La War Flood, Carter Glass, Epps Hunton, Jr., Fitzhugh Lee, Arthur Lefevre, William Gordon McCabe, Thomas Staples Martin, John Garland Pollard, Furnifold McLendel Simmons, Charles Augustus Swanson, Henry St. George Tucker, Lyon Gardiner Tyler, and Edward Carrington Venable.
Chiefly notes, lectures, addresses, and articles on American writers, with an emphasis on early American literature, especially minor authors. Includes research materials on Philip Freneau, Parson Weems, and Henry D. Thoreau. The collection also contains correspondence, 1958-1985, and an autobiographical sketch by Leary. Most of this material is described in the container list.
Collection consists of one untitled holograph manuscript (439 pages) written by Sarah Bowdich Lee discussing African history, exploration, geography, and culture. It appears to date from the 1830s, and was apparently never published. The pages are grouped into loosely bound signatures, with no title page or binding for the text.
Lee's manuscript is an untitled work on Africa that is a survey of European knowledge of the continent as of approximately 1830. It does not appear that Lee saw many of the nations she describes. She writes that she selected many of the "details from the narratives of those whose names alone inspire confidence." The manuscript's watermarks date between 1814 and 1828. Much of Lee's description reflects British white colonialist attitudes and racist or patronizing views of African and Arab people.
The first portion of the manuscript (about pages 1-100) recount African history, exploration, and colonization. The second portion of the text discusses African regions and kingdoms, including Egypt (114, including a description of the ancient pyramids and tombs, and contemporary Muslim inhabitants); Nubia and Sudan (141; includes a description of local wildlife, population, and the trafficking of enslaved people); Abyssinia (165); the Red Sea (180); Darfur and Kordo-far (188; unicorns are mentioned on 194); Cyrenaica (207); Tripoli (216); Fezzan (225); Bornou (240); Tunis, Algiers, and Morocco (283); Senegal (297, includes descriptions of French colonization, the gum trade, Baobob trees, and wildlife); Gambia (306, including descriptions of the British settlement Bathurst); Sierra Leone (322); Ashantee (340); Dahomey (355, including a description of the king and his court); Gabon (381); Congo (388); Portuguese Angola; Cape of Good Hope (399, including a description of Cape Town); and the African islands of Mauritius, Madagascar, Madeira, the Canaries, and others.
The Clare Leighton Papers document Leighton's artistic production, and particularly her illustrations for the book Southern Harvest, published by the Macmillan Company in 1942, and The Frank C. Brown Collection of North Carolina Folklore, a seven-volume series published by Duke University Press from 1952-1964.
Materials in the collection include printer's proofs, preparatory sketches and prints, sketches, engravings, and a limited amount of correspondence related to the publication of Southern Harvest, the printing of Under the Greenwood Tree, and to the acquisition of the Clare Leighton Papers.
The Woodblocks series contains a number of Leighton's blocks used for her wood engravings.
Corn Husking, Baptizing, Fishing in Creek, Tobacco Barons, Sorghum, Coon Hunt, All Day Singing, Quilting Party, Herb Gatherers, Washing Clothes, Cockfight, Weeding Tobacco Bed, Dante Bookplate, Still, Wreck (block broken), Village Lovers, Windblown Tree, Cotton Picking, Centenarian, Chopping Cotton, Cotton Pickers, Spring House, Catfish, Cypress Swamp, and Mountain Girl
This series contains preparatory sketches and various sizes of prints. Some of these materials were used in the preparation of Leighton's book, Summer Harvest, and for her illustrations in the volumes of The Frank C. Brown Collection of North Carolina Folklore and Henry David Thoreau.
The 94 plates, signed by the artist, vary in size and are mounted and inlaid in heavy paper mats. Numbered as set 2, 42 engravings were used to illustrate the artist's book Southern Harvest. 1942. Two of these plates, Tobacco market at night, show the process for making an engraving. Numbered also as set 2, 16 plates illustrated The time of man, by Elizabeth Madox Roberts. 1945; 24 plates, The Frank C. Brown collection of North Carolina folklore. 1952-54. Twelve plates, New England industries, which are numbered set 4, were designed for Josiah Wedgwood & Sons, Ltd.
Engravings entitled: Ellen, Planting tobacco, There were rolling hills, Sheltering from the rain, Apple harvest, Gathering brush, Lovers in the Wheatfield, Winter, She lay there all day, The top of the rise, Jasper's hog pen, Ellen hoeing, Ellen with her baby, The house at Phillip's place, Ellen with her children, Tobacco barn, Some better country.
Engraving titles include: The baptizing, Carolina wreck (Hatteras wreck), Cat fish (Fish caught), Centenarian, The cockfight, The coon hunt, Corn shucking in the mountains, The cotton choppers, Cotton pickers, Cypress knees, Dragging nets, Fishing in the creek, Flue curing tobacco, Herb gatherers, Moonshining, Mountain girl, Mountain haystacks, Mountain springhouse (Springhouse), The quilting, Singing in the mountains (All day singing), Sorghum boiling, Washing clothes, Weeding the tobacco seed bed, Wind and pine (Windblown tree)
Engravings include: Cod fishing, Cranberry gathering, Farming, Grist mill, Ice cutting, Lobsters, Logging, Maple sugar, Marble quarry, Shipbuilding, Tobacco, Whaling
Engraving titles include: Alabama barn, Alabama hog pen, Apple butter, Aunt Madge, Child mother, Chopping wood, Cinnamon ferns, Corn shucking, Cotton, Cotton picker, Cotton "telescope," Cotton picking, Cypress tree in flood, Dog tooth violet, Ear of corn, Hog killing, Hurricane in a cornfield, Louisiana pilgrimage, Magnolia, Mountain miller, Old clothes stall; Old Ollie, Old Sam, Pitcher plants, Po' white cabin, Po' white woman, Smoke house, Song of praise to dead hog, Sorghum mill, Tobacco, Tobacco barns, Tobacco loopers, Tobacco Market at night, Tobacco worm, The Reverend Hill's dream, The Rev. Hill walks away, Trillium, Tulip poplar bud, Waterfall in flood, Water mill, Weighing cotton, Woman with tin bath, [Two sheets of initials]
The Correspondence series includes limited documentation of Leighton's publication of Summer Harvest, as well as some materials related to the acquisition of the Clare Leighton Papers and art objects by the Rubenstein Library.
Three greeting cards, unsent: a flower, a mother and baby, and a snow scene. Inside each is the message "Greetings from Clare Leighton"; two are from Durham, N.C., and one is from Woodbury, Conn.
This series contains materials relating to Clare Leighton's other artistic works.
This collections consists of Leijonhufvud's correspondence, writings, research, and teaching material from his career as a Keynesian economist and professor. Contents range from his coursework at the University of Pittsburgh to lecture notes from his early years as a professor at the University of California, Los Angeles. Topics include include macroeconomic theory, instability and (dis)equilibrium economics, monetary theory and policies, inflation, banking, market systems, Keynesian thought, and the history of economics in general. Correspondents include Armen Alchian, Robert W. Clower (coauthor), Robert Dorfman, Alan G. Gowman, Bert Hoselitz, Erik Lundberg, Gunnar Myrdal, and Joan Robinson.
Reprint. From a 1991 event.
Script from a presentation given by Earlene Craver Leijonhufvud at the University of Trento during a ceremony honoring Axel Leijonhufvud.
Includes correspondence from individuals such as Armen Alchian, Robert W. Clower, Robert Dorfman, Alan G. Gowman, Bert Hoselitz, Erik Lundberg, Gunnar Myrdal, and Joan Robinson. Some correspondence also includes published works sent to Leijonhufvud. Organized into two subseries: Professional Correspondents and Chronological Correspondence.
Writings by Leijonhufvud and others (including his thesis and dissertation), teaching material, coursework, and research and notes. Organized into seven subseries: Writings; Events; Lecture Notes; Dissertation; Graduate Work; Research, Notes, and Sketches; and Writings by Others.
Drafts and completed manuscripts written by Leijonhufvud. Includes the beginnings of a book project with Robert W. Clower, The Coordination of Economic Activities. Arranged alphabetically.
Syllabi, exams, handouts, and notes, chiefly from undergraduate classes taught by Leijonhufvud at the University of California, Los Angeles. Also includes one folder of material from a class taught at the Economics Institute at the University of Colorado. Most folders contain notes from several semesters, and certain folders include student seating charts for certain semesters. Arranged alphabetically.
Material related to Leijonhufvud's doctoral dissertation completed at Northwestern University in 1968. Includes two initial printings and two complete copies of the final printing. This would become his first published book, On Keynesian Economics and the Economics of Keynes: A Study in Monetary Theory (1968).
Material from Leijonhufvud's graduate studies at the University of Pittsburgh. Includes four bound volumes with notes, writings, and handouts.
Research material used in Leijonhufvud's writings, such as "Commentary on the Phillips-Curve Debate," and other notes.
Portraits of economists, sketched by Leijonhufvud. Leijonhufvud likely created these sketches at conferences and other events.
Writings sent to Leijonhufvud by his colleagues. The issue of Business Week includes an article on Keynesian economists, including Leijonhufvud. Econoblast is a monthly publication by the graduate students of Northwestern University. Writings from Joan Robinson include both published and unpublished manuscripts. Arranged alphabetically.
Collection consists of a research report on the construction of a hydroelectric power plant and aluminum manufacturing facility in British Columbia by the Aluminum Company of Canada (later ALCAN). Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History. Correspondence, speeches, writings, clippings, and pictures, all related to the life and career of Robert Lester. Correspondence and clippings cover every facet of his career: teacher and superintendent of schools in Mayfield, Ky.; service in the Army in World War I, library, teaching, and administrative positions at Columbia University; his involvement with Duke University and with major fundraising organizations such as the Carnegie Corporation, and the Council of Southern Universities, where he was director of the Southern Fellowship Fund. One volume of memoranda from the Southern Fellowship Fund includes a 1966 proposal for faculty development among predominantly African American colleges and universities. Lester's addresses and speeches chiefly concern education, philanthropy, and library issues. Collection also includes papers relating to other Lester family members, and to Lester's Chapel in Shelby County, Alabama.
Collection consists primarily of advertisements for various Liggett and Myers tobacco products such as Chesterfield, Fatima, and Piedmont cigarettes, ca. 1910-1950s, as well as advertisements for competitors during the 1970s. Also included are scripts for radio and television commercials sponsored by Liggett and Myers during the 1950s.
The 2005 addition (2005-0058)(6 items, 0.6 lin. ft.) contains two use copy DVDs and two Betacam SP master copies of Liggett and Myers commercials found on film in the collection. These copies were made from the originals in the collection. Also included are radio scripts for Dragnet (1950) and Duke football games (1958-1959) that feature advertisements for Liggett and Myers products.
Note: Parts of this collection are restricted. Some materials are fragile and need further processing and conservation attention before researchers can use them. Please consult with a reference archivist for more information.
Note: Parts of this collection are restricted. Some materials are fragile and need further processing and conservation attention before researchers can use them. Please consult with a reference archivist for more information.
Includes Chesterfield (1974-1976), LandM (1974, 1976), Eagle (1976)
Includes LandM, St. Moritz
Includes LandM, Chesterfield
Includes Chesterfield, Decage, Omni, Lark, generics
Includes Eve Lights, multibrands (featuring several brands on a single ad)
Includes multibrands (FTCF files)
Includes Lark, LandM, multibrands, and some liquor
The 2005 addition (2005-0058)(6 items, 0.6 lin. ft.) contains two use copy DVDs and two Betacam SP master copies of Liggett and Myers commercials found on film in the collection. These copies were made from the originals in the collection
Largely miscellaneous advertisements.
Diaries and journals contain Link's personal thoughts and comments on his life, activities, creative and scholarly work, and relationships. Link was very open regarding his inner thoughts and concerns, and very frank about his sexual activities and his life as a gay man. His writings include general notebooks with drafts of creative work, screenplays, book proposals and drafts, Link's dissertation, along with articles, poetry, and short stories. There are teaching materials primarily featuring Link's handwritten lecture notes for his classes, along with additional related maps, handouts, photographs, exams and other materials. In addition, there are incoming personal letters and cards, along with some professional letters regarding Link's institutional appointments, writing, and Fulbright travel grant. Items pre-dating Link include two articles on Greece printed in 1914 and 1916, along with some family history materials dated 1928.
The Diaries and Journals Series contain Link's personal thoughts and comments on his life, activities, creative and scholarly work, and relationships. Link was very open regarding his inner thoughts and concerns, and very frank about his sexual activities and his life as a gay man. He considered himself a scholar and a creative writer, so his entries generally do not mention current events or politics. Some entries in German.
The Writings Series contains Link's creative and scolarly writing, much of it undated. There are general notebooks with drafts of creative work (some with scattered lecture notes included), screenplays, book proposals and drafts, Link's dissertation, along with articles, poetry, and short stories. Much of the material in the series remained unpublished. See the Diaries and Journals Series for Link's commentary about individual items in the series. For the writings in digital formats, some disks contain parts of different projects stored together. In these cases, they often appear in the General sub-series.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document and unidentified files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files. There is also draft correspondence and teaching-related materials on mixed with literary writings.
Contains document files. There is also teaching-related materials mixed with literary and personal writings.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document and image files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
The Teaching Materials Series primarily features Link's handwritten lecture notes for his classes, including additional related maps, handouts, photographs, exams and other materials. While most of the lecture notes were foldered according to Link's folder titles, there are several folders of loose lecture notes found in the the collection that are not arranged. Includes two research items regarding Greece that were published in 1914 and 1916. See also the general notebooks in the Writings Series for scattered lecture notes.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
Contains document files.
The Correspondence Series contains primarily incoming personal letters and cards, along with some professional letters regarding Link's institutional appointments, writing, and Fulbright travel grant. There are only a few letters by Link. Topics include academia, popular culture, philosophy, an current events. Many letters are in German.
Contains document files.
Collection consists of three bound diaries kept by Nestia V. Lloyd for the years 1923, 1924, and 1925. The early pages of the diaries include printed matter such as calendars, tips intended for women in the home (regarding cooking, cleaning, personal hygiene and health, fashion), London theaters (including Lloyd's notes about which shows she saw at which theaters), and notes. Lloyd used the diaries regularly and discussed her personal activities, gifts sent and received for various occasions, financial expenses and housekeeping, her work and schooling, her travels and activities through London and Wales, and family news.
The first volume of Lloyd's diary, which chronicles 1923, documents her life within the domicile. Each day, she writes about performing a variety of chores, from dusting entire rooms to washing all the silver in the house. Similarly, she accompanies her mother as she shops daily throughout London. Two of the destinations that they frequent are Kensington and West. Most of the purchases that they make revolve around food and are often times the ingredients for that night's dinner. Throughout the diary, Lloyd also indicates that she maintains a few correspondences over the year. She frequently writes to her friends Ellie Wills and Sytha. She also maintains a constant communication with a man named Russell. They talk on the telephone often, and she has him over for dinner a few times over the year. In April, Lloyd wrote about the Royal Wedding that took place between Prince Albert and Lady Elizabeth. In school, Lloyd is studying both French and Italian. Based on her accounts of each class, French is easier for her to learn, and there are times where she exclaims how well she is picking it up versus how poorly she is understanding Italian. Every week, Lloyd attends church with her mother, and sometimes her Auntie May accompanies them.
The second volume of Lloyd's diary, which chronicles her 1924 year, indicates both a continued presence in the home but also her increasing independence. While she still goes shopping with her mother frequently, Lloyd also begins to do things without her mother's guidance and help. For example, midway through the year (around July), she began to go on daily walks with her sister to Colwyn Bay (Wales) without the company of her mom. Lloyd also picks up both the piano and the violin in her free time, and she becomes an avid reader. On many occasions, she would stay in bed until it was time for dinner because she was so invested in whatever book she was reading at the time. Lloyd also continued the dance lessons that she began the year before. She also appeared to increase her commitment to dance, as she began practicing multiple times per week without fail.
The third volume of Lloyd's diary, which chronicles her 1925 year, again indicates her continued presence within the home as shown by the various chores that she performs daily. However, Lloyd also begins to learn how to type. On one particular day, she is ecstatic after passing one of her typing tests with flying colors after achieving a words-per-minute score of 33. On top of that, Lloyd begins attending weekly lectures about being ladylike; she learns about manners and how to carry herself. She continues to dance and play both the piano and violin, though does so less frequently and with less enthusiasm as she did in 1924.
The Carl L. Lokke Papers are dated between 1918 and 1968, and consist of the biographical and professional files of Carl Ludwig Lokke, who was on the staff of the National Archives for many years. Material includes copies of his own research papers and many folders of research notes on his specialty, 18th century French colonialism in the West Indies colonies, and more specifically on the life and career of colonial administrator Baron Pierre-Victor Malouet, who was mainly active in French Guiana. There are also many transcriptions and photocopies of primary documents from archives in France and other repositories, as well as some microfilms and a few journal issues and other printed material. A series of alphabetical fiels contains writings by other authors and is arranged by country. Other files contain material related to Lokke's archival career, including files relating to the National Archives, and service awards.
Primarily contains unarranged research notes for Lokke's work on Baron Pierre-Victor Malouet, an 18th century French colonial administrator and French colonial policy strategist, active mainly in French Guiana. In addition to secondary source notes and citations, contains photostats and hand-written transcriptions of primary sources.
Contains primarily pamphlets and books by authors other than Lokke. Arranged geographically.
In 1964, President Lyndon Johnson declared an unconditional war on poverty in the United States, and nowhere was this war more photographed than Appalachia. A quick Google image search of “war on poverty” will yield several photographs of President Johnson on the porch of the Fletcher family home in Inez, Kentucky. Many of the War on Poverty photographs, whether intentional or not, became a visual definition of Appalachia. These images have often drawn from the poorest areas and people to gain support for the intended cause, but unjustly came to represent the entirety of the region while simultaneously perpetuating stereotypes.
In an attempt to explore the diversity of Appalachia and establish a visual counter point, the 75 prints in this exhibition collection look at Appalachia fifty years after the declaration of the War on Poverty.
In 2014, the Looking at Appalachia project received more than 2,000 submissions from a 420-county area from southern New York to northeast Mississippi. These submissions resulted in 297 photographs being selected for the online archive. Out of these, a selection of 75 images were chosen for a traveling exhibit, and were digitally printed, 11 in black-and-white, and 64 in color. They were taken by 51 photographers from a wide range of backgrounds and aesthetics, from a hobbyist retired coal miner to a young photojournalist working regularly for The New York Times. Subjects include portraits of people of all ages and backgrounds, rural landscapes, and farm and town life, with social events predominating. Sizes range from 14x23 to 16x20 inches; there are also several 3.25 x 4.25 inch prints.
The prints were first exhibited at the Spartanburg County Public Libraries Headquarters in Spartanburg, South Carolina, May 16-June 26, 2015, and traveled to approximately ten locations in 2015/2016.
Acquired by the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
Collection comprises research material gathered by Mrs. Luiggi for her book, "65 Valiants" (University of Florida Press, 1965) concerning American teachers who helped establish teacher education and public schools in Argentina during the 1870s and 1880s. The bulk of the collection consists of letters of various sources about each of the teachers, and notes taken in interviews, and from other sources. There are copies of letters of the 1870s and 1880s by Domingo Faustino Sarmiento and Mary Tyler Peabody Mann. There is information on kindergartens in Boston, Saint Louis, and Washington, D.C.; and the Armstrong, Atkinson, Eccleston, and Stearns families. There is a diary of Sarah Eccleston, 1883-1886; along with pictures of Mrs. Mann and Sarmiento; and photographs of busts of Horace Mann and Abraham Lincoln. There are also 92 black-and-white photographs and 43 negatives providing images of the teachers, including several cartes-de-visite and one tin type.
Series comprises 56 files on American teachers in Argentina. The bulk of the collection consists of letters of various sources about each of the teachers, and notes taken in interviews, and from other sources. There are copies of letters of the 1870s and 1880s by Domingo Faustino Sarmiento and Mary Tyler Peabody Mann. There is information on kindergartens in Boston, Saint Louis, and Washington, D.C.; and the Armstrong, Atkinson, Eccleston, and Stearns families. Inlcudes a diary of Sarah Eccleston, 1883-1886.
Series includes 92 black-and-white photographs and 43 negatives providing images of the teachers in the collection, including several cartes-de-visite and one tin type. There are pictures of Mrs. Mary Tyler Peabody Mann and Domingo Faustino Sarmiento; and photographs of busts of Horace Mann and Abraham Lincoln.
Collection comprises 4 flyers regarding the various wooden block sets made by the community for children.
Papers of MacKinnon, including correspondence with her sister, Louise Mae Davis Stephens, her husband, Francis T. MacKinnon, and other family members and friends (ca. 1920s-1930s); her diary during her courtship (1919-1922); and photograph albums, portraits, scrapbook, and mementos. Also includes husband Francis MacKinnon's WWI scrapbook and letters to family written during his military service in Europe; sister Louise Stephens' personal correspondence, photographs, portraits, mementos, and scrapbooks (ca. 1912-1937); courtship letters of Inez MacKinnon's parents, Jefferson Davis Stephens and Mae Inez Yarborough (ca. 1900); Jefferson Stephens' diary (ca. 1899-1926); and 19th-century papers of the Stephens and Yarborough families, including an 1821 court order by the Territory of Florida. (accession #91-081)
Collection contains primarily correspondence, diary, account books, ledgers, bills, receipts, business records, legal papers, and other material of Hugh MacRae and the MacRae family of North Carolina and Florida.
From the ante-bellum period there are papers of Hugh MacRae's grandfather, Alexander MacRae, concerning the management of plantations in Florida and the second Seminole War; of Archibald MacRae, pertaining to his career in the United States Navy, including a voyage to the Azores and the Mediterranean Sea, 1838, observation of the British attack on Egyptian forces, 1840, participation in the Mexican War in California, voyage to Hawaii, 1847, and descriptions of political and social events in Chile while part of the United States Naval Expedition to the Southern Hemisphere, 1849-1852; of John Colin MacRae and Henry MacRae, relating to the construction and management of railroads in North Carolina and general construction and transportation development in Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, and Virginia, including correspondence concerning quarrels between the Wilmington and Manchester Rail road, headed by Alexander MacRae, and other North Carolina lines; and of John MacRae and Donald MacRae, concerning their general commission business in Wilmington, North Carolina, founded in 1849, the Endor Iron Works (McIver, North Carolina), begun in 1857, and the political activities of John MacRae in Wilmington.
Civil War papers reflecting army life are those of William MacRae, Robert Bruce MacRae, Henry MacRae, and Walter G. MacRae, all of whom served in the Confederate Army, for the most part in North Carolina and Virginia. Their letters describe numerous battles and skirmishes and depict camp life in the 1st, 5th, and 87th North Carolina Regiments and the 2nd North Carolina Regiment, Cavalry. Letters of Donald MacRae, John Colin MacRae, Roderick MacRae, and Alexander MacRae, Jr., concern conditions at home during the war and family business interests, including the sale of cotton, blockade running, operations of an iron works, manufacture of salt, an epidemic of yellow fever in Wilmington, speculation and economic dislocation at the end of the war, and the occupation of Wilmington by Union troops.
Papers for the years after the Civil War are primarily those of Donald MacRae and his son, Hugh MacRae. Papers of Donald MacRae concern the handling of family real estate; settlement of claims on property in Florida; the guano business, particularly the Navassa Guano Company; general business interests, including the development of Linville, North Carolina, as a resort by the Linville Improvement Company and the Western North Carolina Stage Coach Company; and power development, especially the Great Falls Water Power Mining and Iron Company. The papers after 1890 are increasingly those of Hugh MacRae and concern his business interests, including the Wilmington Street Railroad Company, the Consolidated Railways, Light and Power Company, the Central Carolina Power Company in South Carolina, the Tidewater Power Company, and the Investment Trust Company of Wilmington (North Carolina), and his interest in land development and land reclamation, including the formation of farm communities near Wilmington, the promotion of legislation designed to help tenant farmers acquire their own land and to encourage immigration, the creation of the Carolina Trucking Development Company and the Carolina Real Estate Trust Company, and MacRae's work with the National Economy League and the Southern Economic Council in the 1930s.
The collection contains bills and receipts from many of the businesses in which the MacRae family was interested and a number of volumes dealing with personal and business matters, including works on rural rehabilitation; a diary of Robert Bruce MacRae, 1865-1866; a volume of Hugh MacRae's experiment records, 1909; "Roll of the Wilmington Hibernian Society," 1866-1879; account books of Alexander MacRae; record book of Donald MacRae, Company K, 2nd North Carolina Regiment in the Spanish-American War; letter book of Hugh MacRae, 1899-1900; and mercantile and shipping records for J. & D. MacRae of Wilmington, 1858-1860.
The papers of William Mahone span the period 1853 to 1895, with the bulk of the material dating from 1876 to 1892. The collection consists of copies of letters written by Mahone to others, incoming letters to Mahone, subject files on a variety of topics, clippings, and scrapbooks, but primarily focuses on Mahone's railroad and political interests. There is a great deal of overlap of topics between the different series in the collection; thus information concerning Mahone's political and railroad interests is repeated in the different series.
Mahone's involvement in the railroad business dates from 1850 when he became the Assistant Engineer of the Orange and Alexandria Railroad. While there is information about several of the railroads in which Mahone held positions, including both the Orange and Alexandria and the Norfolk and Petersburg Railroads, the bulk of the material concerning railroads is related to the Atlantic, Mississippi, and Ohio Railroad (AMandO). There are both financial and legal papers concerning the AMandO after it ran into financial difficulties in 1873 following the economic panic of that year. Included is correspondence with two Englishmen, John Collinson, who helped Mahone finance a loan to buy the AMandO in 1870, and W. H. Chase, who tried to assist Mahone in saving the railroad. Controversies surrounding the consolidation of railroads in the United States and more particularly in Virginia during the mid to late 19th century are also well documented in the collection.
The bulk of the collection deals with Mahone's political interests and activities. The collection traces the rise of the Readjuster movement in Virginia in the late 1870s, due largely to the efforts of Mahone; Mahone's allegiance to the Republican Party once he was elected to the Senate in 1880; his efforts to build a well organized political machine in Virginia; and finally the loss of support both for Mahone and for the Republican Party in Virginia in the late 1880s.
A central issue in the Readjuster movement was the state's debt, which kept taxes at a high level and almost destroyed the new public school system. The readjusters insisted that the changed conditions of the post-bellum period necessitated the readjustment of the debt. Raising the spectre of class antagonism, Mahone was able to appeal to both poor whites and blacks in order to unite them in a movement of self-interest and reform. This led to the organization of the state-wide Readjuster Party in 1878.
The Readjuster Party won control of the Virginia legislature in 1879 and gained the governorship in 1881 with the election of William E. Cameron. The new party scaled down the debt in the Riddleberger Bill of 1882, enacted laws in social and economic arenas that were of interest to the masses, and, led by Mahone, apportioned governmental offices among the party's leaders. However, in 1883 and thereafter the Readjusters were unable to capture the state legislature or governorship again, although sometimes they lost only narrowly.
Clearly shown through the collection is Mahone's emphasis on organizing the cause of the Readjusters. The focus on organization, including the canvassing of voters before elections, is evident in Mahone's campaigns for the Senate in 1880 and 1886 and for governor of Virginia in 1889. Many of the papers deal with appointing canvassers, creating clubs that would encourage participation in the political process, targeting particular groups to be canvassed such as blacks and "mild" Democrats, making sure political speeches were made in the various precincts, and finding out who had not paid their head-tax and then arranging to have the tax paid. One key element was the Richmond Whig in which Mahone had a financial and editorial interest and which became the official organ of the Readjuster movement.
After Mahone was elected to the United States Senate, he had to choose whether his allegiance would be to the Democrats or Republicans. Once he had aligned himself with the Republicans, Virginia was sometimes viewed as having broken the Solid South, that is, Virginia was seen as one state in the South where Republicans could be elected. Both Virginia and Mahone served as role models for politicians in other southern states who wanted to foster the growth of the Republican Party.
While the collection primarily relates to local and state political matters in Virginia, there are scattered letters in the collection from other areas of the country where the Republican Party was being promoted. There are several letters from William M. Burwell from New Orleans, 1880 to 1884, asking for guidance and giving progress reports on the status of the Republican Party in Louisiana. A letter (1883, March 15) from James T. Beach, Secretary of the Missouri State Republican Committee, relates to his efforts to create a National Cooperative Organization. One of its goals was to secure equal civil and political rights for a free vote.
Mahone was appointed Chair of the United States Senate Committee on Agriculture in 1882 and served on the Committee on Naval Affairs, the Committee on Post-offices and Post-roads, and the Committee on Education and Labor. Evidence of his work on these committees is best shown in the Letterbooks, Correspondence, and Subject Files. It is in the appointment of persons to positions, however, where Mahone's influence is most clearly documented. Requests for patronage positions, particularly in the Post Office, dominate the constituent correspondence. Other letters requested that particular post offices be closed or opened.
Other departments to which persons sought appointment included the Government Printing Office, the Norfolk Navy Yard, the Navy Department, the Treasury Department, and the Internal Revenue Service. Included in both the Correspondence and the Subject Files (Politics: Appointments) series are recommendations, requests and petitions for persons seeking positions.
One incident documented in the collection is a riot that occurred in Danville, Va., on November 3, 1883, three days before the Virginia state elections. Under the Readjuster legislature, blacks held a number of governmental offices in Danville. The Democrats opposed the appointment of blacks and dubbed it "Mahoneism." It is difficult today to pinpoint the origin of the violence that occurred or trace its progress, but as a result of it, several blacks and whites died. Readjusters contended the uprising had been provoked by Democrats for campaign purposes. They also blamed their loss of a majority in the state legislature on the Danville Riot. The collection includes eyewitness accounts of the incident which are located in the Subject Files.
The collection also includes much information about voters and voting patterns down to the precinct level in Virginia during the 1880s. The files relating to election frauds, which date from 1882 to 1889, provide yet another perspective on voting concerns. These files contain standardized forms and letters reporting voting irregularities. The majority of the documented frauds are from 1889 when Mahone lost his bid for governor. There were some who believed that had voting irregularities not occurred, Mahone would have been elected governor in 1889.
The collection records the rise and fall of Mahone's political career in the 1880s, as well as developments and controversies within the Republican Party in Virginia during this period. In 1888 the Republican Party split into factions which led to rival state conventions and delegations to the national convention. The Mahone defeat of 1889 brought a check to Republican activity in Virginia and in 1893 the Republicans made no effort even to nominate candidates for the governorship or the legislature.
Political allies Mahone cultivated in Virginia are among the chief correspondents. They include Frank S. Blair, Stith Bolling, William E. Cameron, Abram Fulkerson, William Lamb, John E. Massey, John Paul, Harrison Holt Riddleberger, and John S. Wise.
There is very little personal material relating to Mahone or his family. There are a few letters from his son William Mahone, Jr., and in the Subject Files there are several folders of financial receipts representing items bought for the Mahone family.
A Duke University doctoral dissertation was written about Mahone in 1932 by Nelson Morehouse Blake entitled William Mahone of Virginia: Builder, Soldier and Insurgent. It was published in 1935 with the title William Mahone of Virginia, Soldier and Political Insurgent. There are additional Mahone papers in the Mahone-McGill Collection in the Rubenstein Library at the University of Virginia Library in Charlottesville, Virginia.
Letterpress books containing copies of Mahone's outgoing letters. Relating chiefly to political matters in Virginia, they concern local and state-wide issues, his work in organizing the Virginia Readjuster Party, his gubernatorial and senatorial campaigns, state conventions, the canvassing of voters before elections, and the appointment of personnel to various governmental offices.
Other letters deal with railroad policy. Financial matters related to his own railroad, the Atlantic, Mississippi, and Ohio, are mentioned frequently, as are other financial and business interests of Mahone. There are two gaps in the time period covered: 1879, June 19 to 1882, September 1 and 1885, June 29 to September 3.
Most of the letterbooks contain alphabetical indexes in the front that list the people to whom Mahone was writing. The number beside each name corresponds to the page in the volume where Mahone's letter to that person can be found. In some cases the dates given on the outside of the letterbook are off by a day or so from the dates of letters actually in the letterbook. An effort has been made to specify on the container list the dates of letters actually found in the letterbook, even if they vary slightly from the dates on the cover. Letters are arranged chronologically within each letterbook.
This series consists almost entirely of letters sent to Mahone, although there are a few scattered letters from Mahone to others. The most prominently represented topics relate to local and state political matters in Virginia. Among them are the Virginia state debt; rise of the Readjuster movement; Mahone's gubernatorial and senatorial campaigns; canvassing of voters before elections; requests and recommendations for governmental positions; the use of clubs to encourage involvement in politics; and the schism which developed in the Republican Party in Virginia in the late 1880s.
Other subjects include railroad matters in Virginia, particularly as they concerned the financial issues surrounding the Atlantic, Mississippi, and Ohio Railroad; the Richmond Whig; legislation relating to the taxation of various products such as whiskey and tobacco; and several correspondents' interest in having Mahone serve in Benjamin Harrison's cabinet.
Many of the letters are numbered on the back and list the name of the letter writer, the date of the letter, a brief summary of the letter's contents, and the place where the letter was written. This information is also preserved in the correspondence indexes. However, not all the correspondence for these years is covered by these volumes. See the description of the Correspondence Indexes below. The correspondence is arranged chronologically.
Indexes to the incoming correspondence to Mahone. Inside each volume correspondents' last names are listed alphabetically with a number or numbers beside each name. The numbers indicate what pages in the volumes represent that person's letters to Mahone. One of the volumes for 1881 has on the cover "general applications." Letter writers represented in this volume wrote to Mahone with requests for placement in various governmental positions. Another volume for 1881 indexes letters that are unrelated to position requests.
The following information is given about each letter noted by the index: 1) who the letter is from; 2) the date; 3) a number; 4) a brief summary; and 5) the place where the letter was written from. This information also appears on the back of the letters themselves. Some of the correspondence dating before 1879 and after 1888 also have this information, but the only indexes in the collection date from 1879 to 1888. One can therefore move easily between the correspondence indexes and the letters for these years. One of the volumes is undated, except for the month and day the letters were written. Volumes are arranged in chronological order.
The Subject File series is arranged alphabetically and primarily relates to Mahone's political and business interests. Many of the topical headings are further subdivided. Politics comprises the bulk of the series and includes the following major subdivisions:
Appointments, 1870-1890. Includes recommendations, requests, and petitions for people to be assigned to various governmental offices, the most extensive file of which pertains to local post-office positions in Virginia. Other offices and departments represented in this file include the Government Printing Office, the Norfolk Navy Yard and Navy Department, the Treasury Department, the Interior Department, the Internal Revenue Service, and judicial appointments.
Canvassing, 1880-1889. Contains lists of canvassers, groups to be canvassed, the number of registered voters by political party and often by race, the number of people who voted in previous elections, and the number of people who were delinquent in paying their head tax. This information is usually quite detailed and broken down to the precinct level.
Elections, 1879-1889. Includes lists of county and city electoral officials, information about election frauds, and election returns, the majority of the material being from 1889 when Mahone ran for governor.
Financial Papers, 1880-1890. Includes records of campaign expenses for several elections.
Virginia state conventions, lists of delegates to the state, Conservative (1877), Readjuster (1880, 1881) and Republican (1886, 1892) conventions.
Printed Material, 1867-1894. Primarily pamphlets and broadsides. Usually the broadsides relate to a particular candidate, meeting, or campaign issue, while the pamphlets concern a variety of issues. Highlighted in the pamphlets is information about the Republican national, state, and district conventions; tariff duties on various items such as sugar and woolens; the Virginia state debt; and the Readjuster movement.
Another major topic is Railroads. Included is information on several railroads in which Mahone had a financial interest. Among them are the Norfolk and Petersburg, the Orange and Alexandria, and the Virginia and Tennessee railroads. However, the bulk of these files concerns the Atlantic, Mississippi, and Ohio (AMandO) Railroad which Mahone created in 1870. There are extensive files relating to the financial and legal issues surrounding the railroad which suffered an economic setback after the panic of 1873 and went into receivership about 1879. (The railroad was later sold and became known as the Norfolk and Western Railroad.) These files also contain maps of the routes of several railroads and other miscellaneous items pertaining to railroads in general.
Other topics found in the Subject Files include the Civil War (commissary papers from Mahone's Brigade, 1863 Jan. - Dec.); the Danville Riot, 1883; Richmond Whig (financial records, 1875-1885); the Virginia Military Institute, 1865-1881; the Roanoke Navigation Company, 1880-1892; the American Reduction Company, 1887-1888; and the Carolina Oil and Creosote Company, 1886-1890.
Includes specifications for a fountain to be built in Mahone's honor, an obituary for Mahone's nine year old daughter, Elise, social invitations, unidentified photographs, architectural drawings, and a few other items.
Chiefly articles related to political issues and concerns in Virginia including the state debt and the rival political parties the Readjusters and Funders, many from the Richmond Whig. Also articles (1886) about John Goode of Virginia who was rejected by the United States Senate for Solicitor General of the United States and articles concerning Mahone in 1889 when he ran for governor of Virginia.
Forty-one scrapbooks primarily containing clippings but also including circular letters, broadsides, and a few handwritten notes. In the container listing, the dates that have been given on the cover of the scrapbooks are noted. However, the period covered by the scrapbooks does not always match the dates that appear on the scrapbooks' covers. All but three are stored in boxes. The three not in boxes are oversized and shelved immediately after the boxed scrapbooks. Loose items found in the scrapbooks were placed in folders and are filed in the boxes with the scrapbooks.
Topics primarily concern local and state political matters in Virginia, many relating to Mahone. Among the chief topics are the rise of the Readjuster movement and early efforts to organize the Readjusters into a state political party; the state debt; the free school system; Virginia state, district, and county conventions; canvassing voters; Mahone's election to the United States Senate in 1880; the Danville Riot in 1883; support for Mahone to be appointed to a post in Benjamin Harrison's cabinet; Mahone's gubernatorial race in 1889; and the schism which developed in the Virginia Republican Party in the late 1880s. Many of the broadsides announce political speeches.
To a lesser degree, materials about railroads are also included, particularly materials relating to the controversial consolidation of railroads in Virginia and the financial difficulties of the Atlantic, Mississippi, and Ohio Railroad.
Accession (2008-0186) (22,878 items; 30.5 lin. ft.; dated 1970s-2017) chiefly contains drafts and galleys of Malone's novels and other writings, personal and professional correspondence, and teaching materials. Also included are contracts and royalty statements, book tour materials and other promotional materials, videocassettes, audiocassettes, and digital files. The bulk of materials relate to Malone's career as a novelist and as a writer for the popular soap operas One Life to Live and Another World.
Accession (2009-0176) (750 items; 0.6 lin. ft.; dated 1980s) contains two binders of clippings, newspaper articles, reviews, and publicity for Malone's novels and plays from the 1980s. Also includes 1 videotape and 1 CD from One Life to Live.
Accession (2012-0052) (1875 items; 2.5 lin. ft.; dated 1980s-2011) contains incoming correspondence, clippings of reviews and profiles of Malone, and drafts of some of his works, including Four Corners of the Sky.
Acession (2017-0116) (3.5 lin. ft.; dated 1990s-2017) contains personal and professional correspondence; playscripts and screenplays of numerous works, including Handling Sin, Defender of the Faith, First Lady, White Trash Noir, and Washington Slept Here. Accession also contains financial information, public lectures and annotated readings, project proposals, sheet music, reviews, day planners and calendars, and personal photographs.
Disks mostly include scripts and story outlines for One Life to Live, 13 Bourbon Street, and other Malone projects. Also included are novel drafts, some correspondence and memos, distribution lists, and other files.
[NOTE: The content of all CDs and 50 selected floppy disks have been migrated to a library server. Consult a reference archivist for access to these electronic files.]
Accession (2009-0176) (750 items; 0.6 lin. ft.; dated 1980s) contains two binders of clippings, newspaper articles, reviews, and publicity for Malone's novels and plays from the 1980s. Also includes 1 videotape and 1 CD from One Life to Live.
Accession (2012-0052) (1875 items; 2.5 lin. ft.; dated 1980s-2011) contains incoming correspondence, clippings of reviews and profiles of Malone, and drafts of some of his works, including Four Corners of the Sky.
Acession (2017-0116) (3.5 lin. ft.; dated 1990s-2017) contains personal and professional correspondence; playscripts and screenplays of numerous works, including Handling Sin, Defender of the Faith, First Lady, White Trash Noir, and Washington Slept Here. Accession also contains financial information, public lectures and annotated readings, project proposals, sheet music, reviews, day planners and calendars, and personal photographs.
Script, synopsis, and correspondence related to London production
Four scripts
"Seeing With the Eye": Job in the Modern Novel
Includes pamphlets and press material
Two screenplays
Two screenplays, full typescript, front matter, and promotional materials
Includes notes and synopsis
Earnings and royalty statements from investments
Contract Correspondence
Lectures, correspondence, and travel plans
Includes program, cast notes, and sheet music
Material related to Broadway production of Rodgers and Hamemrstein's "Cindrella"
Contact list, shooting schedule, ID card
Response letters from campaigns of Josh Stein and Roy Cooper
Two screenplays
Letters, notes, holiday cards, birthday greetings
Hardback and paperback covers for "Handling Sin" and handmade promo
Conference material
Includes materials related to pension plan
Membership packet for private dining club
Includes photocopies of pages from Michael Malone novels and short stories for public readings with annotations, selections include pages from "Chairman", "Handling Sin", "First Lady", "Four Corners of the Sky", "Red Clay," "Foolscap," Crystal Coast, "Nicholas Nickleby," F. Scott Fitzgerald, 5 Ps, Home for the Holidays, Raleigh Fine Arts Talk, South Talk, Literary Talk, "Mad Dog Malone", "Our Mothers...", Elizabeth Spencer, Duke Reads "The Maltese Falcon", and "Philadelphia--City of Big Beginnings"
No author attribution, poems include "Like a Rose to the Sun", "Vienna", "Darkwood", "Same River Twice"
Proposal for a musical adaptation of "The Maltese Falcon" including handwritten notes
Multiple annotated printouts of Act 1
Two drafts
Two scripts
Three scripts
Includes annotations and production notes
Printed play script pasted into small notebook
Published collection of short stories
Includes correspondence and notes
Calendar from 1989; day planners from 1992 and 2003
Large calendar from 1993
Book reviews, drafts, and photocopies of newspaper reviews, includes correspondence with reviewers and agents
Notes and slides from author talk at Regulator Bookshop
Cards, nametags, and professional membership cards
Two copies
Annotated, incomplete, pages 52-536
Collection comprises a photograph album featuring 405 color photographs (ranging in size from 2.5" x 3.5" to 4" x 6", primarily 3.5" x 5") and black-and-white publicity stills documenting members of Mama Galore and their friends while at home, backstage, and on tour. Images capture performances, make-up and other performance prep, performer's pets, and general gatherings. Also includes many ephemeral items, including obituaries, news clippings, clippings of performers mentioned in Etcetera Magazine, flyers, greeting cards, and several inscribed publicity stills. Digital scans have been made of the individual pages; the electronic files have been transferred to the server.
Collection comprises the bound typescript of Mamet's 1999 play Boston Marriage, which uncharacteristically focused on female leads, and was set at the turn of the 20th century. The manuscript is 137 pages, printed on rectos only, bound in printed yellow cardstock with the Rosentone Wender Agency address in NY. Inscribed by Mamet: "To Gwen. For a loyal friend of the A.R.T. [American Repertory Theater] -- some merchandise for your loyalty. May it amuse you, provoke your ire, shim up a chair, or start a fire. Love - David Mamet." With an additional doodle (of the author wearing an A.R.T. baseball cap) and his Mamet stamp, which also appears on the front cover. The script has a print date of December 1998, more than six months before the play premiered. The inscription has a date of June 3, 1999, about two weeks before the June 16 premiere at A.R.T. The recipient was on the Advisory Board of the theater and also a major donor to it. In a folding chemise and custom clamshell case.
The Morris and Dorothy Margolin Film Collection includes 32 home movies that capture the Margolins' travels between 1947 and 1976. Destinations represented in the collection include Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Denmark, England, Ethiopia, France, Germany, Greece, Hawaii, Hong Kong, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jamaica, Kenya, Majorca, Monaco, Morocco, Norway, Pakistan, Portugal, Puerto Rico, Romania, Scotland, South Africa, the Soviet Union, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, Thailand, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. All of the films are in color, and a few include sound.
Also included is a handful of home movies that document family trips and events such as graduations and birthdays, and one film that appears to be a professionally produced documentary about the Soviet Union acquired by the Margolins during their travels.
Particularly notable is the adventurous nature of many of the countries visited, such as the Soviet Union, Pakistan, Bulgaria, Ethiopia, and Kenya -- rare destinations for Western travelers in the 1950s, 1960s, and 1970s. The films are also noteworthy because Morris often trained his camera on his surroundings, recording everyday life as well as architectural and geographical features of the countries he visited. His wife Dorothy also makes frequent appearances in the films.
The films are complemented by over 4,000 color slides taken in most of these same countries from 1959 to 1982. Of particular interest are images from the former Soviet Union and Israel, both from the mid-1960s, images of South Africa during apartheid, as well as early images of France, Italy, and Thailand.
Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
Shotlists were created by Rubenstein Library staff for a number of the films. Contact the Rubenstein Library for further information.
RL10157-F16-0002 France, Belgium, Switzerland, Austria, Italy, 1953 Reversal original, 16mm, sound, color 25.37 minutes
Includes narration and music.
• title card: "Characters? - And How - Dorothy Frances Sam" • map of Europe with title "Vagabonds 1953" • deck of ocean liner • interiors of ship • ship's crew working • life preserver labeled: "Ile de France / Le Havre" • man smoking cigar; interiors of ship • views of the ocean • deck of the ocean liner, Dorothy walks toward camera, poses, waves • interior of the ship, Dorothy walks toward camera • interior of the ship, Morris and Dorothy walk toward camera • three men (friends of the Margolins?) on deck of the ship • Dorothy and friend relax in lounge chairs on ship deck • Dorothy looks out at the ocean, walks to group and socializes on ship deck • Dorothy, friend and Morris walk down stairs to deck and toward the camera • Morris and Dorothy walk around on ship deck, up a set of stairs • Morris poses near railing, ocean behind him; smokes a cigarette • Morris walks around on deck with a friend, talking • Dorothy and others on lounge chairs • Dorothy poses near railing, walks around on deck • street scenes in Paris, includes shots of Dorothy walking around • sign: "Grand Marnier / La Maison du Café" • street scenes in Paris • Dorothy and friends turn around and wave at camera • building: Louvre; Dorothy and friends nearby • Arc de Triomphe and environs • man (Sam Rosenberg?) walks toward camera, wiping his face, camera in hand • woman (Frances?) walks across the frame • "former Russian countess" tour guide in horse-drawn carriage • scooter travels down narrow Parisian? street • Morris and Dorothy walk into the frame, cross street • Dorothy on roadside in rural Switzerland • Alps, Dorothy waves from below, fellow travelers nearby • mountain peaks, Rhone Glacier • scenic shots of the Alps, some with Dorothy • Dorothy and others stand near "former Hotel Grand Majestic Mattenhoffer" • street scenes of Interlaken, Switzerland • group climbs into car • snowcapped Jungfrau • street scenes of Innsbruck, Austria • Innsbruck railroad station • bombed out building near Innsbruck railroad station, Dorothy nearby • couple walks by wearing traditional Austrian clothing • jeep, American GIs? • more bombed out buildings • Dorothy walks toward camera, Tirol/Tyrol? Hotel in background • Dorothy and Frances? in horse-drawn carriage • exteriors of Palace of Franz Joseph • bombed out buildings, underexposed and dark • scenery, and horse, as shot from horse-drawn carriage • Dorothy at mountainside restaurant, aerial view of Innsbruck • visit to Vatican, includes Vatican Museum, Cathedral of St. Peter and St. Peter's Square • Mussolini's balcony • Monument to King Victor Emmanuel and Tomb of the Unknown Soldier in Rome • Dorothy outside castle in Bruges, Belgium • Manneken Pis in Brussels, Belgium • lacemaker tatting near store: Real Belgian Lace • Manneken Pis • city square in Belgium • Dorothy asks police men for directions • flowers market on the square • life preserver • return trip on Steamship Independence • close up: New York • Dorothy and others relaxing on the ship deck • narration snippet: "Enjoy yourself, honey. Just a couple of more days to go. You can still be a lady. And then back to scrubbing floors, scrubbing ears, and sending the kids off to school. Won't be long now, honey. Your holiday is over." • empty lounge chairs on deck • shots of the coastline of the Azores, Dorothy on deck • Dorothy walks to ship deck with binoculars, looks at Azores • more scenic shots of the Azores • Dorothy, friends and others lounge on ship deck • kids splash around in deck pool • aerial shot of deck pool • woman in bikini and high heels plays with a dog • ship arrives in New York, passes Statue of Liberty in distance • Dorothy poses with New York City skyline in the background • Morris ends narration with: "The bar is now open. You may continue drinking."
RL10157-F16-0003 French Riviera, Israel, 1953 Reversal original, 16mm, sound, color 19.22 minutes
Includes narration and music.
• Israeli flag flying on top of a tower • plane parked on tarmac in "the new state of Israel" • sign: "Nazareth Souvenir Shop" • street scenes, architecture • sign: "Synagogue" • children playing in the streets • people ride donkeys through town • town watering hole • children ham it up for the camera • "typical Arab home" • locals pass by on mules • goats grazing in field • Sea of Galilee / Lake Tiberias and surrounding landscape • kibbutz • village • street scenes in Safed • Israeli soldiers • catacombs • Israel soldiers running along road • sign in Hebrew • Mount Herzl • grave of Theodor Herzl • Jerusalem from a distance • children approach driver's side of car, as captured from passenger seat • landscapes • sign: "Haifa-Tel Aviv Road" • scenes of Israeli soldiers, including women • Israeli children playing, doing hand stands • man on donkey in middle of the road • in-transit camps, settlements for European refugees • fortress in upper Galilee • countryside, Hula Swamp area • Morris and friend? inside fortress • travel along newly constructed highways, captured from inside the car • sign: "Danger-Frontier Ahead-No Passage (multiple languages)" • cattle walk along the road • sign: "Upper Galilee Regional Council" • scenes at a kibbutz • ruins of Arab city • scenes of the Negev desert and Bedouin settlements • Morris on a camel ride • more scenes of the Negev desert and Bedouin settlements • Morris stands next to tri-directional sign • Weizmann Institute of Science in Rehovot, Israel • landscapes, including olive trees • people along roadside, captured from inside the car • Morris stands next to tri-directional sign, ruins of Arab village in the background • entering Jerusalem by car • exteriors of King David Hotel • path to Mt. Zion • sign: "B'nai B'rith Hillel Foundation at the Hebrew University" • grounds of Hebrew University • airplane on tarmac • roulette wheel, stacks of coins • title card: "Why 50 Million Frenchies Can't Be Wrong" • Carlton Hotel in Cannes, France • beach scenes • Morris poses with woman on the beach • friends? of Morris interact with the same woman • swimming pool overlooking the Mediterranean • life preserver: Eden Roc / Cap of Antibes • Dorothy sitting on Eden Roc • person dives into Mediterranean • Dorothy and Frances rinse off • swimmer climbs up hanging ladder from water • fireworks
RL10157-F16-0006 Liberté, England, Scotland, 1955 Reversal original, 16mm, sound, color 37.34 minutes
Includes narration and music.
• blending of people waving from a pier and the Liberté docked in the harbor • Liberté: Ocean Liner from New York City to London. On June 29, 1955 • ocean liner Liberté seen from port • crowds and Margolin family seeing them off at pier. people on deck of Liberté • view of New York City skyline, Statue of Liberty, and other boats taken from ship • fire safety drill • deck tennis • crew working on ship • transfer from Liberté to smaller boat to go to Plymouth, England • London • Grovener House hotel • street scenes • men in kilts • shops • traffic • double decker bus • Piccadilly Circus • theatre district • 10 Downing Street • school children • Westminster Abbey • Houses of Parliament • Big Ben (in scaffolding) • River Thames • Scotland Yard • St. Paul's Cathedral • bombed out rubble from World War II • New Bond Street • Tower of London • Buckingham Palace • changing of the guard • Princess Anne looking out of Buckingham Palace window • small town outside of London • street scenes • outdoor market • Oxford • street scenes • colleges • High Street • students • Broad Street • bicycles • Stratford-Upon-Avon • Ann Hathaway Cottage • street scenes • Warwick Castle • punting • Edinburgh, Scotland • Edinburgh Castle • street scenes • Princess Street • Scottish dancing performance • Loch Katrine • Loch Loman • unidentified Scottish town • street scenes • sign: "England & Norway"
RL10157-F16-0008 France, Italy, 1955 Reversal original, 16mm, silent, color 23:30 minutes
• Eiffel Tower, as captured from a boat cruising the Seine • views of Paris from the Seine: bridges, buildings, other boats • Margolins and friends on boat • miniature Statue of Liberty • more shots of the Eiffel Tower • Notre Dame from the Seine • man with movie camera on the boat deck, filming • visit to Versailles, including gardens, exteriors, and some interior shots • sign: "Marie Antoinette" • roadway with directional sign: "Paris" • close-up on directional sign: "Paris" • street scenes • Arc de Triomphe, eternal flame and flowers • Obelisque de Luxor in the Place de la Concorde • street scenes, Place de la Concorde • Dorothy walks toward camera at Versailles? • Dorothy interacts with woman selling lace • gates of Versailles? • woman selling lace • Dorothy gets into car • Dorothy crosses street, stops and poses near uniformed man, pans to large building • Dorothy poses on narrow street, outside of Cinema Photo store • exteriors of Versailles and the grounds, including Dorothy and Morris • countryside, pond with water lilies • sidewalk cafe, Dorothy at table • Brasserie du Musee • bicyclist on narrow street • Dorothy walks across empty square • sign on awning: Café A Tout Va Bien Tabac, pans to street scenes • exteriors of unidentified church • street scenes, bicyclists, pedestrians crossing street • Dorothy walks on cobblestone street, café in background • Dorothy pretends to hitchhike next to sign: "N5 Fontainebleau 8 Paris 66" • exteriors of Fontainebleau, Dorothy walks toward palace • interiors of Fontainebleau, including close-ups on artworks; some too dark to see • view of Fontainebleau from cafe • woman wearing a hat approaches a horse on the street, pets it; others follow suit • street scenes, shot from above; pedestrians and traffic • long shot of Dorothy, walks toward camera; Miramar [Hotel] in background • Dorothy walks toward camera, ocean and rocks in the background • Dorothy skips back toward water • close-up on the Miramar [Hotel] • street scenes • close up: Jean Patou • traffic cop directs traffic • beach scenes • Kodak store in background, Dorothy nearby; pedestrians and traffic in foreground • Dorothy considers shop offerings • Dorothy walks toward camera, casino in background, pans over to La Maison Basque • Dorothy poses against fence, shops and ocean in background • Dorothy outside of Casino Bellevue, walks toward camera • street scenes • Dorothy passes small art gallery, Exposition Moreau; stops to show off the paintings • Dorothy at café table with huge tray of seafood • Dorothy walks by alley that looks onto ocean • uniformed man outside of building • Dorothy in hotel lobby or restaurant? • beach scenes, bikinis, includes shots of Dorothy • Dorothy goes for a swim • Necresco Hotel in Nice, France • street scenes • shots of cityscape across the water • cars parked along street near ocean, sign: "Frontière" • bumper to bumper traffic at Italian border • sign: "Arret obligatoire des vehicules allant en Italie" • street scenes, architecture • narrow Italian street • Dorothy wanders through crowded city square • tops of ornate buildings in Genova? • street scenes, architecture • Dorothy? stands next to large columns • sidewalk scenes • aerial views of city, Christopher Columbus statue? • aerial views of harbor, ocean, apartment buildings • aerial view of horse (or donkey?) drawn cart • ocean dotted with sailboats • sidewalk scene • two men gesture, point • pans to café tables and chairs on open street near small inlet filled with boats • Dorothy wanders around, interacts with the two men • one of the men points camera toward Morris's camera • three men stand around, discussing • Dorothy looks at fabric? being sold at a stand • boats rocking in the inlet • Dorothy walks along street; boats, buildings, water in the background • Dorothy poses with the two men by the water • Morris and Dorothy, holding hands, walk toward water; joined by one of the men, they shake hands and pose • scenic shots of water, buildings and hills • Dorothy and the two men sitting at café table • Dorothy climbs into a donkey drawn cart • the two men sit at the café table • Morris talks to someone on the steps of the Monte Carlo Casino • Morris shows empty pockets and walks down the stairs • exteriors of the Monte Carlo Casino • Dorothy waves from parking lot • view of the cityscape • Dorothy walks along, stopping across the street from the Carlton • large promenade near beach • beach scenes • people gather at tourist site? Dorothy in background • unidentified church, Dorothy on street below it • sign: "La Provence" • quiet city square • signs on awning: "Hotel de France / L'Auberge de France" • police officer? stands near row of cars • Dorothy sits at café, smokes a cigarette, waiter comes by • Dorothy walks out of L'Hotel de Paris et de la Poste in Sens, France • sign: "Boucherie Chevaline"
RL10157-F16-0009 Spain, S.S. Queen Elizabeth, 1955 Reversal original, 16mm, sound, color 22.22 minutes
Includes narration and music.
• Talgo train at San Sebastian station • train ride from San Sebastian to Madrid: mountains, valleys, towns, railroad tracks • tank with "San Sebastian" written on side • Dorothy leaves restaurant near park in Madrid • exteriors of Prado Museum; Dorothy exits with books • Palace Hotel, roundabout • Dorothy walks to sidewalk and toward camera • Charles and Emma Fish; Emma, Spanish-Hungarian-Jewish "gal," Dorothy, and friend goof around, dance, take a bow • exteriors of El Escorial • Dorothy purchases souvenir from street vendor, climbs into car • long shot of El Escorial, surrounding landscape • Spanish girl seated on rocks • view of El Escorial • bullfight; includes a few crowd shots • Dorothy, Emma and friend exit arena • landscape shots, intercut with shots of crowd leaving • Dorothy waits outside of stagecoach • exteriors of Royal Palace of Madrid • Plaza Major; street scenes • villagers stand along side of road, looking at camera • villagers do laundry outdoors • sign: "A Madrid 5km" • man walks toward group with dog • Dorothy poses with villagers on the side of the road • Romani? family walks alongside covered wagon • Avenida de José Antonio • street scenes, including street vendors • architecture, including post office building • entrance to metro • sign: "Puerto del Sol" • street scenes, Dorothy walks toward camera • street scenes of Toledo • exteriors of Toledo Cathedral • uniformed man approaches camera • young boy in traditional garb walks up hill toward camera • more street scenes of Toledo, many including Dorothy • Dorothy has wine with guide in main square of Toledo • Colmar store • street scenes in Madrid • rural Spanish village, barren landscape • sign: "Toledo" • ruins of the Spanish Civil War • bridge over river • views of Toledo from overlook • Dorothy climbs into car; tour guide at car door • more views of Toledo • Morris with Spanish women in front of shops • Dorothy and Morris in front of synagogue in Toledo • sign: "Sinagoga del Transito" • street vendor with donkey • Dorothy on tree-lined path, uniformed men avoid the camera • sign: "House of El Greco" • narrow street scenes, including donkeys • Dorothy and tour guide walk toward camera • Queen Elizabeth ship • Dorothy lounges inside • Dorothy on deck, adjusts headscarf • ocean behind boat • Morris lounges on the deck, waves, walk towards camera • Dorothy waves from deck; sign: "1st Class Passengers Only" in front of her • Morris points at smokestack on deck • Dorothy lounges on deck • people working on deck of ocean liner • high angle shot of Dorothy reading on deck • Dorothy and friends? lounging and drinking tea • friends on board • New York City, Statue of Liberty and harbor from the boat • Dorothy on deck • Queen Elizabeth at dock, unloading cargo • New York dock, cars
RL10157-F16-0011 Puerto Rico, Villa Rica 1958 Reversal original, 16mm, silent, color 16.35 minutes
• sign: "4 Dormitorios Amueblados y Decorados por Patio Shop," in ground outside of building • bungalows • three men stand in street, looking at partially built bungalows • cow in neighborhood, the men go over and pet it • sign: "3 Dormitorios Amueblados y Decorados por Patio Shop" • man stands in front of partially built structures, points camera at Morris's camera • pans over landscape of partially built structures • sign: "Nuevos Modelos de Casas Villa Rica Véalos Ahora! desde $8,990" • exterior of Villa Rica sales office • landscapes, including neighborhoods, streets • close-up on poster, blurry • monument: "A la memoria de Ramon Emeterio Betances" • billboard: HNAS Davila Supermarket • billboard: Casa Modelo Villa Rica • billboard: Oficina de Ventas • houses captured from moving car • views of the construction area • neon sign: Caribe Hilton • tourists at hotel pool and beach, including ocean scenes • flamingos • Morris stands like a flamingo among the birds • landscape and ocean from plane window • plane lands • people prepare to disembark, underexposed and dark • travelers disembark from airplane at St. Thomas-Virgin Islands • locals unload luggage from plane • Caribair plane • sign: "Welcome to St. Thomas Virgin Islands, U.S.A. Be sure to visit St. John and St. Croix" • Caribair plane and stairs on tarmac • Dorothy and daughters? pose under "Welcome" sign • sign: too dark to read • travelers sit in terminal • group of (mostly) women look out at scenic view • interior shots of a shop? underexposed and dark • landscapes • locals at harbor, fellow travelers mingle • produce market at the harbor • Dorothy walks toward camera • donkey carries cargo down street • large house • golf course, close-up on someone setting up a shot • group of men play golf • golfers buy or receive? fruit from young man • golfers peel and eat fruit • Morris walks from golf cart, rolls up pant legs, and prepares to swing; golfs • city square, street scenes • unidentified church? • San Juan National Historic Site Visitor Center • sign: "Visitor Center San Juan National Historic Site / U.S. Department of the Interior National Park Service" • parking lot near Visitor Center • fellow travelers waiting in parking lot • interior of Visitor Center? • women at golf course • man stands next to car • sign: "Caribair" • group of travelers waiting at airport, underexposed and dark • sign: Pan American World Airways, underexposed and dark • fellow travelers read newspapers, underexposed and dark • poster: "The Virgin Islands by Caribair St. Crois St. John St. Thomas Now Also to St. Maarten, N.W.I." • technicians? near plane on tarmac • group approaches plane, poses outside, and boards • Morris and unknown woman pose in front of plane, wave, and board • interior of plane • license plate: Tropical Playground T-116 Virgin Islands • aerial view of town and ocean • group at restaurant, underexposed and dark • woman in bathing suit climbing onto and then off of boat • tourists at hotel pool and beach • series of swimmers jump from diving board • unidentified church • street scenes • group walks away from Farmacia la Esperanza • houses
RL10157-F16-0012 USSR (Moscow, Kiev, Yalta, Sochi), 1958, 1964, 1967 Reversal original, 16mm, silent, color 35.56 minutes
The original film was labeled 1967, but edge code on the 16mm reversal original indicates that sections of this film pre-date 1967; more details are available on the film's Print Condition Report. It is possible, though, that the Margolins took more than one to the Soviet Union in the 1950s and 1960s.
• onion-domed buildings shot from across river • street scene, traffic • State Historical Museum, Red Square, the Kremlin • goose-stepping guards marching in front of Lenin's Mausoleum • long line outside of Lenin's Mausoleum on Red Square • Saint Basil's Cathedral • children wearing uniforms, holding red flags on Red Square • long line for Lenin's Mausoleum wraps around Red Square • school children walking in line • Tsar Bell • group of school children in uniform • Red Square • building with large columns • street scene, traffic • Moscow State University • view of Moscow from Sparrow Hill, Moskva River • sign: "Hotel Berlin" (also in Russian) • Hotel Berlin and environs • street scenes, including Dorothy • banner in Russian • street scenes, including Dorothy • park, food vendors • city square • entrance arch to the All-Russia Exhibition Center • Dorothy and fellow travelers • the All-Russia Exhibition Center, including sign in Russian • close-up on statue on top of entrance arch • scenes from the All-Russia Exhibition Center, including fountains, statues, architecture, red flags • photographer takes picture of fellow travelers • food vendors • wide promenade with entrance arch in the distance • ornate fountain • food vendors and hungry school children • more scenes from All-Russie Exhibition • sign: arrow points left, in Russian • Dorothy and friend? toward camera • close-up of building, the Bolshoi Theatre? • river scenes, including large ship, Neva River in St. Petersburg? • Bronze Horseman statue of Peter the Great, St. Petersburg • exterior of St. Isaac's Cathedral • street scenes, including historic architecture • construction workers spreading asphalt • exterior shots of the Hermitage • exterior of the Church of Our Savior on Spilled Blood, some scaffolding • architecture, street scenes • Neva River • Battleship Aurora, open to tourists • sailor walking away on sidewalk along the bank of the Neva River • Dorothy Margolin with guard outside of Peterhof Palace • Peterhof Palace gardens • school group touring Peterhof Palace gardens, close-up on faces of young boys • Dorothy poses with a group of schoolgirls • statue • kids play in fountain, sprinkler drenches garden • Neva River? • workers cultivate grass • Catherine Palace • older women sitting on bench outside of palace • restoration work performed on Catherine Palace • horse passes under archway • apartment building? • street scenes • St. Petersburg Mosque, ornate exterior alcove • gates to unidentified, passersby • Smolny Cathedral? • parking lot • unidentified yellow building behind trees • wide boulevard, possibly Nevsky Prospekt? • tracking shot along bridge over canal, Church of Our Savior on Spilled Blood in background • exterior of Kazan Cathedral • exteriors of Grand Choral Synagogue • woman pastes up street advertisements, street scene • statue of Lenin on pillar, flowers below, in Kiev, Ukraine • street scenes, architecture • four uniformed men walk by on sidewalk, high angle shot from upstairs window • woman painting wall • women working on railroad construction • street scene from inside car, framed by windshield • long shot of statue, from across the street • red building with explanatory sign outside • sidewalk scene, open yellow door (sign in Cyrillic) • sign: "Hashian" • sidewalk scenes • exteriors of St. Michael's Golden-Domed Monastery? • intercut with people on nearby sidewalk, inc. Dorothy and friend • open square, large group of people walking toward camera • exteriors Kiev Pechersk Lavra? • school children and others walk by • scaffolding and restoration work • landscape shots overlooking the Dnieper River, fade to black • man walks over to food stand? • sidewalk scenes, Kiev? • street musicians • sign in Cyrillic • blue building, unknown • two uniformed schoolgirls walk toward camera • long shot of Mother Motherland statue? from other side of hill • high angle shot of billboards • memorial statue and plaque: Cyrillic • workers digging in park • scenes of Park of Glory (Park Slavi), including Fallen Heroes Alley, fade to black • eternal flame at base of Obelisk of Glory, surrounded by flowers • view from base of Obelisk of Glory • street scenes as shot from the car, windshield and dashboard visible • exteriors of utilitarian apartment buildings, new constructions • memorial and surrounding greenery • sign: "Intourist [sic]-- Hotel-Restaurant -- Oreanda" • Hotel Oreanda, Yalta • women crossing street, toward camera; includes Dorothy • 1917-1967 anniversary banner for the Red Revolution on Hotel Oreanda • street food vendor • red flag flies among street lights • street scenes, inc. shot of Dorothy and Morris? • beach • Hotel Oreanda; Dorothy waits outside with friend • Dorothy and friend walk toward Livadia Palace • Livadia Palace architecture and grounds • sign in Cyrillic • Livadia Palace gardens and view of the Black Sea, includes shot of women working in the garden • Morris walks into frame and sits on bench • views of hillside neighborhood and Black Sea • Morris with Livadia Palace and Black Sea in the background • landscape • fade to black • white statues, museum interiors • white lion statue at Vorontsov Palace; Dorothy walks into shot • people working on gardens at Vorontsov Palace • Dorothy and friend? walk toward camera holding hands (multiple takes) • small group pauses at top of steps, gardener walks up • landscape shot of gardens and Black Sea, people sit on benches in foreground • Vorontsov Palace walls • sign related to 1917-1967 anniversary • food vendor • people gathering for group shot in courtyard • unidentified building • street and sidewalk scenes • indoor/outdoor food and flower market; seems rural • busts in park; fade to black • children eating ice cream cones on bench, Soviet era posters in background • ice cream vendor, children buy ice cream • garden square with memorial tree and flowers; sign in Cyrillic • hotel; very mod • landscape view of rolling hilltops • unknown rustic restaurant, park?; fade to black • unknown building; sign in Cyrillic • truck transporting logs drives by • Soviet advertisement, perhaps propaganda; in Cyrillic • statue in front of streetlight on road median • mod building, maybe a bus stop or convenience store? • farmland along river • dance performance in a theater • aerial view of city • Dorothy stands by a fence with a view of town in the background • Morris stands in same place with pipe in hand, waves goodbye
RL10157-F16-0013 Italy, 1959 Reversal original, 16mm, sound, color 31.22 minutes
Includes narration and music. Structured as a story about the travels of a Simca, their rental car.
• Dorothy walks past young man getting water from pump, poses • Dorothy sits at sidewalk table at café • sidewalk and street scenes • close-up of church facade • Dorothy walks out of restaurant? • sidewalk and street scenes, including produce stand • Dorothy gets directions from man with a newspaper • Dorothy at produce stand • unidentified cathedral • Dorothy at newsstand near cathedral • houses on hillside, street scene • harbor, including docked boats • shops and street scene • Dorothy climbs into Simca car, waving • close-up on license plate of car • sign: Villa d'Este • car on shaded street • another Villa d'Este sign • landscape shot pans to car on shaded street • boat in harbor • Lake Como and environs • Dorothy walks through garden at Villa d'Este • small group of women walk toward parked car, the Simca? • cars drive down narrow street toward camera • Milan Cathedral, with plenty of pigeons outside • Dorothy and fellow travelers • building and parking lot • Dorothy and friends walk toward Museo Teatrale • sign: Museo Teatrale • advertisement for La Boheme at Teatro alla Scala • Milan City Centre: shops, Dorothy and friends, street scenes, fountain • exterior of arena in Verona • street scene • advertisement for Arena Verona • banner: "Arena di Verona - La Forza del Destino - Il Trovatore - Faust"; pans down to street scene • buildings, including Rolex sign • shops, narrow street • clock tower, street scene • statue fountain • Dorothy outside of a cathedral? underexposed • Verona city gate • street scenes, including street performer • statues on building • Dorothy sitting on bench in park, near fountain • exterior of cathedral • directional sign: Roma, Arezzo, Firenze, Il Campo, Duomo • woman walks by eating ice cream • narrow curved street, car drives toward camera • sign: "Costa Larga"; pans down to street scene • Dorothy walks toward "Ristorante," pans up to apartment buildings • Dorothy walks away from Ristorante, toward camera • city square • two women stand by fence near body of water • sign: "San Marino" • signs for restaurants, hotels • shots of Dorothy at Guaita fortress • aerial shot of countryside from Guaita • Dorothy with fortress in background, looking at guidebook • Dorothy at outdoor café table • two women walking up cobblestone street • Dorothy with countryside in background, Vespa? in foreground • Dorothy walks down narrow cobblestone side street • Dorothy near signs • streets crowded with shoppers, including Dorothy • statue and tower • Italian countryside • crowded street, two uniformed men walk toward camera • guards • flag • sign: visas • traffic cop directs (very little) traffic • guards near wall: S. Marino Italia • sunbathers on rocks at water • beach hotel and many umbrellas • beachgoers on rocks at water • water crashing against rocks, people swimming • bikini-clad sunbather reading • beach scenes • Dorothy puts on swimming cap and gets in the water • rocks, waves and beachgoers • marina with fortress in background, colorful apartment buildings, café chairs, boats • men walk by with luggage cart, boats in background • two women with a baby at café • marina, boats • colorful apartment buildings, pans down to boats • crowded street scene with sidewalk vendors, buildings • aerial view with water, buildings, mountains • ocean at sunset, boats and pier? • aerial view of water, town, mountains • colorful beachside hotel • sunbathers under umbrellas near hotel • city square, people gathered around outdoor theatre? • more shots of city square, including monks? and nurses? • monks? or friars? talking, sign in background: Otello • three women stand outside of souvenir? shop • men sit at sidewalk tables • close-ups of buildings on square • unidentified church • crowded (narrow) street scenes, near the city square • close-ups of couple on small balcony, architecture • adolescents hanging out, architecture • city square, Dorothy? crosses square and climbs steps to unidentified church • shots of church, Dorothy? enters • make-shift newspaper stand outside of church, headline about Eisenhower • Dorothy poses near well • Florence skyline from across Arno River; Dorothy enters frame, poses • view down the Arno River, including Ponte Santa Trinita and Ponte Vecchio • close-up of jewelry in window, pulls back to show Dorothy looking in at them • more close-ups of a jewelry window display • long shot of stylish woman in profile, baby toddles around and falls in background • shots, including close-ups, of stylish woman posing, model? • street scenes, some include Dorothy • Dorothy window-shops • Dorothy walks over to fenced bust of Benvenuto Cellini • sign: "A Benvenuto Cellini Maestro / gli orafi di Firenze" • Dorothy by bust, points, poses on bridge, sits on curb • Dorothy window-shops, camera pans to street, including woman with camera • Dorothy at window display of jewelry, points • Arno River, buildings, bridge • group waits in front of bus • close-ups of exterior of basilica Santa Maria del Fiore, glimpse of the crowd • woman in dress poses, model? • street scenes, including street vendors, street sweeper, horse-drawn carriage • crowd waiting outside building • Dorothy talks to stylish woman near car, model? • city square, including horse-drawn carriage • Dorothy walks out of shop • more exteriors of the basilica of Santa Maria del Fiore, including the dome • crowd, people pointing up • street scene, including traffic cop • exterior of Albergo Excelsior Italia, Dorothy talks to man in white uniform • smaller crowd outside of previously-seen building • directional sign: Pisa, Livorno; roads • countryside, bales of hay • leaning tower of Pisa and environs • street scenes near leaning tower, nuns and monks walk by line of souvenir stalls • more shots of leaning tower of Pisa • from tower, Dorothy walks toward the camera • buildings nearby leaning tower of Pisa, and the tower again • Dorothy waits in line at street cart near base of leaning tower of Pisa • group of monks walking away from camera • street scenes near leaning tower of Pisa, including priest riding bicycle • men in jester suits guard passageway • shots of St. Peter's Square, Vatican City • priest takes photograph for family • close-up on statue • young woman climbs onto motor scooter with young man • exteriors of St. Peter's Basilica, complete with tour buses • obelisk • fountain • columned promenade near St. Peter's Basilica • people exiting St. Peter's Basilica? including a Buddhist? monk and a fancifully uniformed man • close-up: Musei Vaticani • people entering St. Peter's Basilica? man perched near entrance • close-up on sign for Monumenti Musei e Gallerie Pontifici • people walk along Vatican wall, past street vendors • sign: "Only five hours from Rome visit Israel the land of the Bible" • buildings, street scene; nun in foreground before frame pans up • Vatican wall and Musei Vaticani archway with statues above, bus drives by, people come and go • Dorothy holds picture, stands in front of Vatican wall? • shot of Dorothy on sidewalk, under café umbrellas • pans to include sidewalk and café • underexposed shot, hard to see • skyline with palm tree in foreground, domes behind • Dorothy walks down curved outdoor steps • church? Dorothy enters frame, walking down steps • shot of Dorothy sitting on steps with church? behind her • Dorothy approaches and interacts with a group of people, perhaps a Jewish-Italian family? in rural setting • women hoe hay, other farmwork • woman walks toward building carrying container on head • chicken and her chicks • donkey with cart, occupied by small boy • men hang out under brick structure • woman walks down steps • street scene with café tables, woman carrying cargo on head, uniformed man • Dorothy (in two different outfits) outside unidentified building, probably in Rome
RL10157-F16-0014 Majorca, Barcelona, 1959 Reversal original, 16mm, sound, color 13.53 minutes
Includes music, but no narration.
• unidentified cathedral • harbor • boats • historic buildings • street scenes • museum • bullfight at stadium • donkey cart • people • street vendors • stores • windmills • farm • boy milking cow • tourists on beach • people in traditional clothing, playing instruments and performing traditional dances • Barcelona • street scenes • traffic • cars • stores • shops • church • cathedrals • horse cart • buildings • sign: Barcelona • sign: Ritz • last scene: exterior of Ritz Hotel
RL10157-F16-0015 S.S. New Amsterdam, France, 1959 Reversal original, 16mm, silent, color 27.11 minutes
• New York City 5th Street Pier • Holland-American Line pier • aerial view of tugboat • S.S. New Amsterdam ocean liner • people on the S.S. New Amsterdam • ship's crew working • Southampton docks • France • shops • stores • sign: "Vernaison" • market • sign: "Le Coq Hardi" • park • taxi • Paris • military tank in the middle of a city square near the Eiffel Tower • sign: "Exposition Napoleon III Magenta Solferino Le Prince Imperial" • Louvre • obelisk • historic buildings • sign: "Place Vendôme" • street scenes • traffic • stores • shops • cars • monuments • Maxim's • sign: "Avenue des Champs-élysées" • cafés • restaurants • Southern France - the Riviera • Carlton Hotel • street scenes • beach • outdoor vendors • traffic • sailors • shops • stores • esplanade • Martinez • aerial view of city • garden • people at beach • sign: "Carlton" • gay male couple? • Israeli flag • sign: "Red Roc" • seaside resort • sign: "Beau Rivage Palace Hotel" • Switzerland • building flying Swiss flag • mountains in background • houses • fields • aerial view of mountain town • sign: "Café Schutzhaus" • snow, snowy rocks
RL10157-F16-0016 Puerto Rico, Jamaica, 1959 Reversal original, 16mm, silent, color 21.28 minutes
• title card: "Islands in the Sun: Puerto Rico, Jamaica, St. Thomas" • Dorothy and friends (possibly family?) sunbathing, hamming it up for the camera • people relaxing in waterfalls • underexposed, hard to see • woman climbs into car • funicular • aerial views of lush landscape and ocean • fellow travelers outside of hotel? • British flag; probably in Jamaica • lush landscape • travelers climb into car outside of hotel? • men ride bicycles, pull goats on a leash • young girl on side of the road • sign: "Jamaica Inn" • palm tree and ocean • resort, beach scenes • street scenes, shot from a moving car • monument • houses, shot from a moving car • uniformed man in front of constabulary station • woman selling produce at roadside stand • traffic jam? cars stopped, people gathered • another shot of produce stand • group standing outside of bus • police car • cars stationary on road • people stand on the roadside, shot from inside a car • woman carries a bundle on her head • man rides by on donkey • women carry baskets on their heads • street scenes • fellow traveler beside fenced garden • fellow traveler in the middle of the road, vehicle approaches from behind • street scenes • sign: "JAA Bog Walk" • shots of unidentified building with fenced garden in front • shots of "Tom Cringle's Cotton Tree," including sign • cart hauling palm fronds, shot from behind • street scenes, shot from inside car • shops • women waving straw hats • traffic cop directs traffic • sidewalk and street scenes, including fellow travelers • directional sign: "Victoria Crafts Market" • street and sidewalk scenes • group of children walk toward the camera • young girl and father pose for camera • young boys play on the sidewalk, hamming it up for the camera • street scenes from car, including traffic cops • fellow travelers stand beneath sign: "Welcome to Victoria Crafts Market: The All-Jamaican Shopping Centre" • boats on the water, at dock • woman embellishing hats • advertisement: Welcome to Jamaica See the Exciting Mid-Day Native Floor Show at New Bamboo Club • fellow travelers climb into car • Dorothy poses for camera in garden • Dorothy and friend pose in front of flower garden that spells out "Welcome to Hope" • garden, flowers • patio seating at restaurant, fellow travelers and other tourists drink, eat, dance • Dorothy and friends balance drinks on their heads • Dorothy and friends drink • traditionally dressed Jamaican musicians play and dance for tourists on patio • lots of dancing! • man walks to car, stormy day • life preserver: Arawak Hotel, Jamaica, B.W.I. • exteriors of the Arawak Hotel • fellow travelers sunbathe on the beach • birds fly overhead • Dorothy and fellow travelers walk from beach to hotel pool • each poses with life preserver framing their face • overexposed shot of ocean • fellow travelers swimming in ocean • boats in water: sailboat, glass bottom boat, etc. • beach filled with beachgoers, pier • pool at the Arawak Hotel? • Dorothy? in swimming cap swims out to friend on raft • the Margolins? runs out into ocean together, swims back to shore • another couple does the same • buffet meal • hotel pool • back to the mealtime • sign: "670 New York" • sign: "Avianca Colombian National Airway" • shots of Avianca plane on tarmac • interiors of plane, underexposed • shots of clouds, propeller, sunset from airplane window
RL10157-F16-0017 Aruba, 1962 Reversal original, 16mm, silent, color 12.47 minutes
• three people sitting in seats at an airport • people waiting in airport • debarking from airplane • beach • tourists at hotel pool • sailboat • churches • buildings • harbor • cars • traffic • outdoor produce stand • stores • shops • women walking with baskets on heads • esplanade • water skiing • native barge • man standing and paddling in a small "canoe" filled with green bananas • people walking a dog down a side walk
RL10157-F16-0018 Italy (Naples, Taormina), Israel, Cristoforo Colombo (ship), 1964 Reversal original, 16mm, silent, color 43.37 minutes
• life preserver: C. Colombo Genova • travelers on deck of ocean liner Cristoforo Colombo • men in dinghy trying to sell goods to people on ocean liner, goods travel up a rope port • Pompeii • ruins, museum • Napoli • streets scenes • mosque • children • piazza • cars • traffic • girl in first communion dress • shops • stores • cafes • view of mountain • hilltop park • tourists on beach • Israel: • border guards • people working in fields • sign: "Yad Mordekhai" • street scenes • outdoor market • donkey cart • cars • stores • shops • traffic • beach • hotel • archeological sites • people in orchard • ruins of Roman baths with curative waters • synagogue • sign: "Eastern Bridge" • Cesarea • playing games with people at a settlement • construction sites and new buildings • palace, including grounds • mosques • aerial view of harbor city • sign: "General Exhibition of Safad Artists" • children • Jerusalem: • street scenes • aerial view of city • sign: "King David's Tomb" • sign: "Chamber of Destruction" • Mount of Olives • Mount Zion • buildings • roads • university campus • students • couple walking arm and arm on a curved sidewalk
RL10157-F16-0019 Yugoslavia, Greece, 1964 Reversal original, 16mm, silent, color 11.48 minutes
• title card: "Vagabonds in Foreign Lands" • title card: Produced by Margolin • title card: Directed by Margolin • title card: Costumes by Margolin • title card: Casting by Margolin • title card: Music Sound by Margolin • title card: Financed by Margolin • title card: Photography by Margolin • Cast / Morris - Fuehrer / Kal - A Runner / Eleanor - Prime Minister / Dorothy - Shlepalong • boats in harbor in Greece • Dorothy on boat with Kal? • boat sets sail, views of the water and shore • Dorothy and Eleanor? on deck • Dorothy poses with view of city behind her • views of towns and harbors from the boat • street scenes, including enormous pelican • small boat on the water • man rides donkey up and out of tunnel • boat docks • buildings on the mountainside • man rolls barrel along street • harbor scenes • countryside, including mountains • Kal?, Dorothy, Eleanor? exit museum? one at a time • Acropolis • Dorothy poses at the Acropolis, then at Parthenon • Morris poses at the Parthenon • Dorothy walks into the frame, pans to Greek flag in distance • close-up of Parthenon columns • aerial views of Athens • close-up of Greek flag • aerial views of Athens • views of the Parthenon • amphitheatre • beach and seaside buildings • street scenes • scenes from street market • close-ups on produce • Dorothy? walks down narrow street • man gets his hair cut • street scenes, including street sweeper • Dorothy walks down narrow street • street scenes • Dorothy talks to man on the street • city square • women balancing baskets on their head • school group? walks along street • street scenes • people at fountain • pigeons fly around square • women in traditional clothing • Dorothy stands on steps, pans to street and hillside • woman in blue dress walks down steps • man in uniform walks down steps
RL10157-F16-0020 Japan, 1965 Reversal original, 16mm, silent, color 22.43 minutes
• exterior of store camera at a 90 degree angle • city street scenes of native people dressed in Western clothing and traditional Japanese clothing • stores • shops • outdoor sculptures • monuments • Rodin sculptures • river • kites • sign: "Uyeno Seiyoken" • office buildings • cars • traffic • park • sign: "Buddhist Temple: Kotoku-In Monastery Kamakura" • school group at the temple • houses • boats/junks on land • pagodas • view from train • funicular up a mountain • man boiling eggs in a hot spring • tourist ferry boat • boats in harbor • train station • school children • women in kimonos • street parade • museum commemorating victims of Hiroshima • hot springs • formal procession • pagoda
RL10157-F16-0021 Bangkok, Hong Kong, 1965 Reversal original, 16mm, silent, color 28.03 minutes
• "Hong Kong Water Tours" flap flying from mast of boat • Hong Kong • wooden ferry boat • boats in harbor • view of skyline from the boat • sign: "Kowloon Public Pier" • harbor crowded with houseboats • people fishing from small boat • street scenes • people walking • modern hotel with beach and golf course • Bangkok • houses • sign: "Tiger pagoda- exterior and detail" • aerial view of city • street scenes • hotels • shops • stores • restaurants • apartment houses • monkey • outdoor café • houseboats • flooded rice patties • boats • sights of other boats, structures, houses and people as seen from a boat going down river • people swimming and bathing in the river • vendors selling merchandise from their small boats • Buddhist temple, including interior, exterior, grounds • Buddhist monks • buildings and another boat on river viewed from a traveling boat
RL10157-F16-0022 Hawaii, Pakistan, Turkey, Portugal, 1965 Reversal original, 16mm, silent, color 25.22 minutes
• palm trees • Hawaii • hula dance performance with guitar accompanists • group of tourists learn to hula dance • man climbing a palm tree • sailboats at the edge of beach • Pakistan? Turkey? • street market • vendors • street scenes • village huts outside of the city • oxen • houses • outdoor laundry • unidentified palace • camel • children • café on a beach • stores • shops • trams • boats • exterior and interior and grounds of palace or museum • sign: "Baghdad Kiosk" • men washing feet • temple or mosque? • monuments • obelisks • aerial view of coliseum, city, bay • street market • interior of airplane, flight attendants • Portugal • outdoor produce market • harbor • esplanade • fishermen repairing nets and boats • street scenes • exteriors of buildings • beach • town square • village life • women washing laundry • sign: "Convento de Santa Cruz dos Capuchos" • exteriors of Palacio Hotel
RL10157-F16-0023 France (Paris, Deauville, the Riviera), 1967 Reversal original, 16mm, silent, color 33.08 minutes
• traffic circle in Paris, vehicles driving around an obelisk • buildings • traffic • cars • sign: "Place Vendome" • street scenes • scale models of ocean liners • sign: "Avenue De L'Opera" • L'Opera • Gendarme • shops • stores • cinema • film posters • apartment houses • street vendors • streetcar • construction workers • advertisements • sign: "Rue St. Honoré" • sign: "Boulevard St. Germain" • churches • Place St. Genevieve • Anti-Vietnam War and Anti-American posters • Seine River • Notre Dame • people on the banks of the Seine • Deauxville • street scenes • hotel • waterfront • harbor • shops • stores • buildings • cars • vehicles • traffic • café • horse and buggy • sign: "Avenue General De Gaulle" • New Golf Club in Deauville • statue honoring the dead of World War II • outdoor street market • beach • Paris • statue of Joan of Arc • cars • traffic • sign: "Rue de Rivoli" • Champs-élysées • outdoor sculptures • park • Arc De Triomphe • George V Hotel • Folies Bergère poster • cafés • sign: "Champs Elysees" • Maria Callas poster • Christian Dior boutique • Eiffel Tower • sign: "Rue De Seine" • tourist tour boat • church • University of Paris • sign: "Quai des Tuileries" • sign: "Rue de la Paix" • sign: "Boulevard des Capucines • sign: "Rue Danou" • French Riviera • palm trees and Paramount film posters • Cannes? • film posters and advertisements • outdoor beachfront café • people on the beach • airport • people boarding an airplane • boats in a harbor • fisherman unloading nets • photo shoot of a model in a bikini • Carlton Hotel • Chartres cathedral? • front of Chartres Cathedral
RL10157-F16-0024 Morocco, Italy, 1967, 1967 Reversal original, 16mm, silent, color 43.16 minutes
• prow of the ocean liner Michelangelo • people seeing off the ship from dock • crew working on ship • travelers on deck of ship • ship captain piloting ship • Port of Genoa • Morocco • buildings • hotel • street scenes • donkeys/mules • stores • shops • people filling up water at an outdoor faucet • men praying • mosque • outdoor street market • outdoor vendors • women in burkahs • traffic • acrobats performing on street • interior of mosque • aerial view of city • apartment houses • cemetery • castle or fortress • directional signs: Beni Mellal, Kasba Tadla, El Kelaa and Marrakesh • fields • sheep and herder • Marrakesh • children walking home from school • rug weavers at looms • sign: "Cooperative Artisanale D'Azrou" • village • houses • city street scenes • sign: "Arab Bank" • garden • sign: "Proprieté Jacque Majorelle" • village • laundry • sign: "Hotel La Mamounia" • parade or march • hotel pool • street performers • snake charmer • street dancers and musicians • sign: "Casbah" • Casbah garden • Venice • motorboat ride • view of Venice from canal • gondolas • breakfast on balcony • buildings • canals • palaces • bridges • sign: "Hotel Bauer Grunwald" • flags flying • beach • Doge's Palace • stores • shops • street scenes • artists painting at easels in piazza • interior of restaurant • café • advertisements • street vendors • pigeons • children and nuns in a procession • group of young people walking through a piazza
This film does not appear to have been made by Morris Margolin; rather, it is likely that it is a documentary film acquired by the Margolins on their trip to the Soviet Union.
RL10157-FS8-0001 Capri - Ethiopia - Nairobi, Kenya - Cape Town - Johannesburg - Safari, October 1971 Reversal original, Super 8mm, silent, color 41.16 minutes
• flowers on windowsill, landscape from window • sign: "Servizio Motoscafi per la Grotta Azzurra" • street scenes, including Bar Grotta Azzurra • boats at dock • street scenes, including street vendor • boats and buildings along shore • close up on sign: "Servizio Motoscafi per la Grotta Azzurra / Andata e ritorno L. 300 • buildings near water, on cliff • beach from a distance • men on dock working with net • boats in harbor • woman fills bucket with water at spigot • street scenes, including cafes and shops • Dorothy sits near bottom of stairs • ships on the water • Dorothy and friend? walk with crowd toward camera • high-angle shots of people in canoes, boats near La Grotta Azzurra • people exit canoes, line for canoe rides • Dorothy and friend? in canoe • views of landscape • exteriors of a villa? • Dorothy under a covered walkway • views of landscape • walkway flanked by trees • sign: "San Michele di Axel Munthe" • Dorothy walks out of doorway • plaque about Axel Munthe (in Italian) • two people tend to garden • café • clock tower • street scenes, including Dorothy • building: Hotel Quisiana • scenes at the dock, includes sign: "Diretto Sorrento" • Dorothy and friends wait with luggage • views of harbor and boats, shot from boat • garden or park? in Ethiopia • buildings • street scenes • crowd on hillside • livestock • street scenes, including Dorothy, people gathering? at roundabout • two men shake hands • well-dressed young people line-up • plaque: in Amharic? • plaque: "His Imperial Majesty Haile Selassie the First Emperor of Ethiopia In Order to Promote and Improve the Services of Posts and Telecommunications for the Benefit of His People Inaugurated These Buildings on This 2nd Day of November 1969 on the Thirty Ninth Year of His Reign" • exteriors of buildings • sign: "Minister of State" • street scenes, construction • exteriors of building, parking lot • street scenes, crowd gathered • Dorothy amongst the crowd • crowd gathered around street performance • sign: "Terefe Guta House Rent & Real Estate Broker" • exteriors of buildings, street scenes • close-up on painting, underexposed • Ethiopian flag flaps in distance, behind trees • scenes of impoverished area • buildings, mountains off in the distance • lion statue • man in traditional clothing • H.I.M. Menelik mausoleum • statue • exterior shots of unidentified building • close-ups on stained glass with religious motifs • building under construction? • exteriors of unidentified buildings, gardens • Dorothy walks toward the camera • sign: "Haile Selassie I University" • exteriors of buildings, presumably at the university • Dorothy on the roadside, sign behind her reads: "You are now entering Kenya" • sign: "Nairobi Hebrew Congregation Services" • exteriors of synagogue • street scenes • sign: "University of Nairobi" • exteriors of unidentified buildings • Dorothy walks around sculpture, toward camera • close-ups of sculptures • plaque: "In grateful remembrance of Dr. R.K. Yajnik" • exteriors of buildings • building: University of Nairobi • street scenes • creek • cityscape • giraffes • sign: "White Grass Ridge / Beware of Lions" • zebras, other wildlife • scenes from the savanna • primates (baboons?), one sits on the hood of a car • hippos in the water • locals and tourists on a path • antelope? • sign: "Hyaena Dam / Narogomon Dam" • ostrich • lioness walks from behind van • landscape shots • warthogs • gazelle? • running ostrich • giraffe • city skyline, buildings • sign: "Golden City Hotel" • street scenes • sign: "Jewish Guild War Memorial" (Johannesburg, South Africa?) • street scenes • building with scaffolding • street scenes, exteriors of buildings • Hotel Monte Carlo • Barclays Bank • men loading cargo • Tollman Towers • street scenes • Dorothy window-shops • street scenes, including Foschini, Woolworths • skyline of Johannesburg? • Dorothy and friends in a neighborhood • street scenes • Johannesburg airport • clouds, countryside, towns from plane • plane lands in Cape Town? • skyline • street scenes • teacher and schoolgirls walk by • sign on truck: Katz & Co. / High Class Confectioners / Wedding Cakes & Pastries our Specialty • bus, street scenes • traffic cop directs traffic outside of the Board of Executors • exteriors of unidentified building • street scenes, exteriors of buildings • sign: "Twenty Four Hours of Prayer for Racial Harmony in St. Georges Cathedral" • Houses of Parliament in Cape Town • statue of Victoria R.I. • sign: "Government Ave" • garden, men working near statue • sign: "Art-Gallery / Museum" • unidentified church? • Table Mountain • aerial view of Cape Town, including the harbor • Jameson Memorial Hall • Dorothy at University of Cape Town? • young people on lawn, steps • chauffeur leans against black car • young people on lawn, steps • cars parked on street • sign: "University of Cape Town" • unidentified structure on hillside • street scenes, buildings • boat: Good Hope Castle • industrial scenes of port • billboard for Ackermans, "A family friendly store where you get... Value for your Money" • people, boats in Cape Town harbor and port • building: Port Offices - Hawekantore • seagulls • boat: H. Sawyer, Cape Town • street scenes • aerial views of city and surrounding area, including the ocean • Dorothy and man look out at city • plaque: "This cornerstone was placed in position in the House of God at sea point Cape Town by the right Hon. J.C. Smuts P.C., M.P., Minister of Justice" • exteriors of buildings, close-up on door • Castle of Good Hope • sign: "Visitors to the Castle / William Fehr Collection Military Museum / Enquiries" • café • school group walks past the camera • aerial views of oceanfront and ocean, city and mountains • sign: "Chapmans Peak" • sign: "Cape of Good Hope Nature Reserve" • scenery shot from moving car • sign: "Cape Town 37" • monkeys? peek in through vent on bus • Dorothy poses with ocean in background • sign: "Whites / Men & Women / Toilets" • people climb hill toward unidentified building • sign: "Toilets / Non Whites / Men & Women" • sign: "Viewpoint" • views of cliffs, ocean • unidentified building on hilltop
RL10157-FS8-0002 TreeTops - Tanzania - Kenya - Safari Club / Safari - Ngorongoro Crater - Durban - Zulu Land, October 1971 Reversal original, Super 8mm, silent, color 29.41 minutes
• cartoon drawings of Dorothy and Morris with a huge lion between them • entrance to Mount Kenya Safari & Game Ranch • Morris stands next to sign: "Mount Kenya Safari Club" • Morris in field • landscapes • Dorothy in garden • views of sports club and garden area • unidentified couple goofs around, bumps into Dorothy • sign: "Danger / Wild Animals / Stay in Your vehicle / No Pedestrians / Speed Limit 15 Miles Per Hour" • animals, some in cages others on safari: warthogs, antelopes, giraffes, leopards, monkeys, gorillas, dik-diks, zebras • antelope? approaches car, sticks head in the window • exterior of Outspan Hotel • Dorothy sits at table • people gather in outdoor café • Dorothy and group on tour, at least one man with a rifle • landscapes, some with animals • Dorothy looks out over landscape from bridge • landscapes, some with animals • Dorothy and group on lookout bridge • close-ups on birds • Dorothy and group eat snacks from table • landscapes, some with animals • Dorothy with group of locals selling beaded necklaces • close-ups on locals • rural village • small child walks toward camera, herding animals? • landscapes, some with animals (including rhinos) • sand storm • group of identical tent-like structures • Dorothy walks out of tent #15 • Dorothy with group of locals behind her • sign: "KENYA / This Sign is on the Equator" • Dorothy near sign, small market on other side of dirt road • Morris points to equator sign • sign: "Welcome to Tanzania" • landscapes, many with villagers • city street • directional signs • exterior of New Arusha Hotel • informal roadside market • clock tower • sign: "Meru Tavern Bar" • street scenes, including women carrying bundles on their heads • Dorothy walks toward camera, lawn chairs and pool nearby, hills and water in background • landscapes • exterior of Lake Manyara Hotel • zebra-painted buses • landscapes • back of white car with license plate KLL 65 • entry gate with animal skull on fence • sign: "Lake Manyara National Park" • pathway and sign: "Take No Liberties with Dangerous Animals" • white car and zebra painted buses in lot • Dorothy walks toward building • landscapes with animals, including rhino with baby, hyena, flock of birds, lion, jackals, gazelles, wildebeest?, zebras, and others • sign: "Headquarters / Ngorongoro Conservation Unit" • a few locals stand along road, one by car -- perhaps at the Conservation Unit? • Lake Manyara? and environs, including wildlife such as zebras, birds, antelope, gazelles, lioness, buffalo, elephants, and others • young people approach camera, selling necklaces • group of tourists with cameras • children (some naked) run along road, approach camera, hold out hands • group of naked children dance • bare-breasted woman selling necklaces • huts on hillside • Dorothy exits bus • flowers and foliage • group enters Ben's Den • cheetah or leopard? in the shade • village and villagers • bare-breasted women • Dorothy poses with villagers • villagers gather, perform
RL10157-FS8-0003 France, Hungary, 1975, 1975 Reversal original, Super 8mm, silent, color 33.06 minutes
• street scenes in France • exterior of Hotel Inter-Continental • man directs traffic, street scenes • Dorothy across the street, cars whiz past • exterior of Hotel Meurice, Paris • golden statue of person on horse • group plays bocce ball in park • sidewalk scenes, gardens • fountain, possibly Tuileries Garden? • Arc du Carrousel • statues in park • exterior of Louvre, close-up on lion statues flanking door • scenes of the Seine River • street scenes • Dorothy on sidewalk, next to yellow vehicle • street scenes • priest? standing by lamppost • dogs playing in park, possibly Jardin du Luxembourg? • Dorothy sunbathing on deck near pool • view of ocean, harbor, coastline from pool deck • pool side bar • Dorothy reads paper in lounge chair on deck • skyline, pans to boats in harbor • views of French? coastline • Dorothy walks to unidentified building • signs: "Golfe-Juan / Syndicat d'Initiative" and "Cannes P.T.T." • street scenes • Dorothy exist building, walks toward camera • street scenes • boats in harbor • palm trees and pedestrians along promenade • boats in harbor • close-up on boat: "Komati Southampton" • Dorothy near gate on dock • title: "Boats boats boats!" • close-up on water • views of coastline, water, ocean liner, sailboat • beachgoers wade into water, sunbathe on rocks • views of coastline, water, harbor • abstract sculpture and mosaic on building • Dorothy walks out of unidentified building, possibly an art museum? • artwork in museum, some is underexposed • sidewalk scene, Dorothy at café • beach scenes, including nearby promenade • exterior of Palais des Festivals et des Congres, Cannes • couple eats at beachside café • Dorothy exits InterContinental Carlton Cannes • sign: "Carlton Beach" • beach scenes • close-up on exterior of unidentified building • beach scenes, including a number of topless sunbathers • kids ride bicycles in city square • pigeons gather around woman with cane seated on bench • buildings along river? and suspension bridges in Hungary? • exteriors of building, possibly Buda Castle, under construction • close-up on lion statue • exteriors of building under construction • statue littered with rubble • pieces of statue on ground • sign: "Magyar Munkasmozgalmi Muzeum" • exteriors of building • street and sidewalk scenes • statue in city square • Dorothy talks to a woman in courtyard, kids learn over banister • close-up: street number "66" • exterior of Inter-Continental • scenes of Heroes' Square, including tour group and uniformed men • hazy views of Budapest skyline, Danube River • street scenes, including Dorothy walking with tour group • sign: "(visual) no dogs" • Fisherman's Bastion • hazy views of Budapest skyline, Danube River • Dorothy walks toward unidentified building with woman • Danube River and buildings on opposite bank • traffic as seen from tour bus? • directional sign: "Esztergom, Visegrad" • cemetery? • sign: "Autobusz / Panorama / Buszmegallo a Fellegvarhoz / Bushaltestelle Zur Citadelle" • mountainside, views of rural Danube River • close-up on ruins on mountaintop • Dorothy talks to woman on sidewalk • women sit on bench • ruins on mountaintop • Dorothy still talking to woman on sidewalk • boat pulls away from dock • structure, possibly ruins, on hillside • aerial views of countryside • Dorothy and friends? pose for camera • Dorothy and friends? walk along rural road • directional sign, difficult to read • directional sign: "Etterem Restaurant" • ruins on hilltop • sign: "Pilisi Parkerdo, and others" • aerial view of Danube River • Dorothy and friends? wander around ruins • views of countryside • sign in Hungarian • small group gathers at roadside • woman sells wares at small table • tour bus and tour group in parking lot • directional sign: "WC" • fortress on hilltop • scenes of Danube River • sign in Hungarian • scenes of Danube River, fortress on hilltop • directional sign: "Budapest, Esztergom" • Dorothy sits on bench, smoking • signs in Hungarian • small boats on Danube River • passengers, including Dorothy, on ferry • views of countryside from river • man with dachshund on shore • Dorothy on street in small Hungarian town • suburban, arguably rural, street scenes • sign: "Beszallas Budapest Fele" • sign: "MHRT Nagymaros" • buildings alone Danube in Budapest • Dorothy poses for camera • Budapest street scenes
RL10157-FS8-0004 Munich - Germany, 1975 Reversal original, Super 8mm, silent, color 16.03 minutes
• exterior of Hotel Vier Jahreszeiten • street scenes • sign: "Nationaltheater" • National Theater in Munich, Germany • street scenes, including U-bahn entrance • traditional Bavarian architecture • flower market • street scenes of downtown Munich • window of butcher shop • street scenes, including outdoor market • buildings with Lowenbrau logo • more scenes from the outdoor market • sign: "Kartoffel Verkauf (Potato Sale)" • sign: "Marienplatz / Tal" • Munich street scenes • street sign: "Ludwigstrasse" • traffic • sign: "Neue pinakothek / Staatsgalerie moderner kunst" • statue outside of neue pinakothek • artwork in neue pinakothek, most underexposed • exterior of unidentified building, including close-ups on damage • sidewalk scenes, including group gathered to watch…? • directional sign: "Olympia-Radstadion, Leichtathletikhalle, Olympiastadion" • Munich's Olympic facilities • sidewalk scenes in Munich shopping district • glockenspiel at Marienplatz • sidewalk scenes, including close-up on Hirmer • Dorothy window-shopping at jewelry store • sign: "Schmuck Uhren Huber Trauringe" • sidewalk scenes • more of Munich's Olympic facilities, including Olympichalle and Olympicstadion • exterior of Hofbrauhaus
RL10157-FS8-0006 London, July 1976 Reversal original, Super 8mm, silent, color 16.24 minutes
• Dorothy sitting in stadium with others • head leaders • British flag on rooftop, highway in background • aerial view of city and surroundings • unidentified building • street scenes, including double decker red buses • Dorothy walks through gate • street scenes • sign: "Knightsbridge Spaghetti House" • sidewalk and street scenes • exteriors of Hyde Park Hotel • The Scotch House / Burberry's on London corner • street scene, with Harrod's in distance • Dorothy walks along sidewalk, walks into purse shop • visit to unidentified site, outside of London? • sunbathers on lawn • signs for Cafeteria, Ladies • Big Ben, Palace of Westminster from across the Thames • Gresham Street, London • Guildhall • sign: "Site of Blackwell Hall, 1356-1820" • exteriors of buildings • interiors of church? including stained glass windows • Dorothy on street outside of The George Inn • performance at outdoor theater • sign: "The Dickens House Library & Museum" • residential street, sign on building: "Stable Yard" • sign on building: "Stable Yard" • Queen's Guardsman in distance • Little St. James's Street, London • Selwyn House • views of buildings, rose garden • street scenes • sign: "Mariscos" • Dorothy and couple at café table • Greenwich Park overlooking London, views of Queen's House? • statue at park • sign: "Prime Meridian of the World" • Royal Observatory • exteriors of National Maritime Museum • River Thames? • exteriors of unidentified building, possibly Royal Naval College? • friend pouts and walks toward camera • Cutty Sark and environs • Gipsy Moth IV • friend hams it up for the camera • Royal Naval College • restaurant: The Bull at Bisham • grounds of the Compleat Angler Hotel • Dorothy and couple at café • River Thames in Marlow • George Dragon Hotel, High Wycombe • street scenes, including British police • Dorothy and couple walks through gardens • grounds and exterior of unidentified residence • sign: "Thames Conservancy NOTICE" • boats on dock • family walks along shaded path • Dorothy and couple along bank of River Thames • Spread Eagle Hotel and environs • sidewalk and street scenes in small town • building: "The Wheatsheaf? Fine Horsham Ales" • clock tower / rotunda • bulletin board for Chichester Cathedral • people at park, pans to street scenes • Chichester Cathedral, West Sussex?; under renovation • city square • Horse Guards Avenue, City of Westminster • posted schedule for changing of the Queen's Life Guard • Queen's Guard • street scenes, including unidentified building • more shots of Queen's Guard; Dorothy approaches guard on horseback • street scenes in London?
RL10157-FS8-0007 Rhine River Cruise, Majorca, July 1976 Reversal original, Super 8mm, silent, color 28.34 minutes
• harbor and other boats (one with German flag), shot from boat • church on riverbank • street scenes, blurry signs… one is for Hauptbahnhof • Dorothy and young woman on sidewalk • exterior of hotel, name is blurry • Dorothy and young woman walk toward hotel • young kids play in fountain • sidewalk scenes • close-ups of cathedral in Cologne, Germany • Dorothy and woman near café • Dorothy boards bus • people on deck of river boat • boats (one is labeled 150 Jahre Koln-Dusseldorfer), riverbank from boat • Dorothy and young woman walk down hallway • boats, bridges, riverbank shot from boat • interior of boat, Dorothy and young couple sit at café • passengers on deck of boat • flags lowered • Dorothy and others look out over boat deck • more scenes from the boat trip • young girl jumps down steps, art propped up along sidewalk • sidewalk and street scenes • building: "Correos Y Telegrafos" (Posts and telegraphs) • building: "Caja Portal de Amorros" • Dorothy window-shops • sidewalk and street scenes • sign for Air France • billboard: "Dinero de verano / Banco de Bilbao" • Dorothy walks toward camera • scenes of narrow street • poster: "Maria del mar Bonet" • man points to words written on wall, Dorothy and young woman nearby • woman seated on balcony • aerial view of street scenes • sign: "La Loza Mallorquina Juan Canals No. 7" • sidewalk scenes, shops • street scenes • boats in small inlet, nearby hotel • close-ups on boats in inlet • blurry sign • hotel pool • close-ups on boats in inlet • docked boats, including large boat: Stena Germanica • harbor, dock, nearby roads • passengers on Stena Germanica • another large boat: Santa Cruz de Tenerife • skyline, including fortress on hilltop • visit to fortress • close-ups on cathedral • Dorothy and young woman walk along sidewalk • sidewalk and street scenes, including art shop • Dorothy and others explore gardens? • beach scenes, back to the small inlet with boats • Dorothy on balcony overlooking inlet • beach scenes, sunbathers and boats in inlet • hotel pool and surrounding landscapes • buildings and environs, some shot from car • group rides by on horses • airplane building? • sign: "Bar Restaurante Pour Redo" • pile of unknown construction elements • view of ocean and surrounding landscape, including a shots of Dorothy with an unidentified man • woman walks to hotel pool • sidewalk and street scenes, including a number of signs in German, also Spanish • field of trees • small town streets captured from car • building: "Casa Consistorial" • unidentified church and environs • ocean and coast • buildings under construction • gardens and natural landscapes • hotel pool and environs, including hillside • sunbathers and swimmers at the hotel pool, including Dorothy • young girls walk down street in village • wandering around streets of small village, shots of natural environs • nuns in small village • more wandering and shots of natural environs
In addition to creating film travelogs, the Margolins took many color photographs in the same countries, and had them formatted into color slides which they would then load into carousel trays and project at special gatherings. The vivid color images feature many kinds of buildings, inhabitants, street scenes, tourist sites, and natural landscapes. Occasionally Dorothy and Morris Margolin, family, and friends make an appearance.
The earliest images were taken in France in 1959, and the latest dates are of a 1982 trip to Italy. Of particular interest are over 200 hundred slides from Russia taken in the 1960s, and many images of Israel from the 1960s and 1971, as well as slides from South Africa during the apartheid era. There are also images from Florence in 1968, showing the consequences of the devastating flood of 1966. Other locations cover most of Europe and England, parts of Southeast Asia, Africa, and a few locations in the U.S. and Canada.
The over 4000 slides, arranged in chronological order and then alphabetically by country, were originally in carousel trays; their original projection sequencing has been preserved to the extent possible.
Includes Florence, Verona, Rome, Villa D'Este, and Como.
Images are from Paris.
A note on the carousel box for Tray 1 of 2 says "With Eleanor and Kal [?]."
Includes Colombo, Naples, and Taormina.
Images are from Moscow. A handwritten note on the carousel box says "Sound on tape."
Includes Moscow and Leningrad. A note on the carousel box says "Excellent," and "Sound on tape."
Includes Fuji-Hakone National Park and Osaka.
Includes Tokyo and Hiroshima.
Scenes from Paris and the Riviera.
Includes Yalta and Kiev.
Includes Milan and Rome.
Includes Verona and Florence.
Includes Sestri Levante, Montecatini, Portofino, and Lucca.
Includes Paris and the Riviera.
Includes Granada, Seville, Madrid.
Includes a few slides from Holland, 1971 Nov.
Includes Nairobi, Johannesburg, Capetown, and Durban.
Includes Kenya, Tanzania, Zululand, and South Africa.
Includes Jerusalem, Jericho, and Tel Aviv.
Includes Basel, Bern, and Geneva.
Includes Zermatt and Zurich.
Includes Paris and Cannes.
Includes Bournemouth, Bath, and Stratford-upon-Avon.
The papers of Eugene Marshall (1832-1919) span 1847-1962 and consist primarily of diaries kept by Marshall during his military service in the Civil and Sioux Wars and correspondence exchanged with his sister, Olive (Mrs. Frederick Trow). The collection is divided into the following series: the Diaries (1851-1895); Correspondence and other documents (1847-1918; 1958-1962); Writings, both printed and manuscript, including poetry, speeches, newspaper articles, and letters to the editor (1863-1918 and undated); Genealogy of Marshall and related families; Volumes and Scrapbooks (1858-1908); Photographs (1858-1913 and undated); and a small folder of miscellaneous material. There is also an oversize folder in the collection, which contains a certificate attesting to Marshall's membership in the Minnesota chapter of the Sons of the American Revolution. The collection also includes one of the Indian arrows that wounded Marshall during the campaign of 1864.
This series contains correspondence, largely exchanged with his sister, Olive (Mrs. Frederick Trow); legal and business documents; printed materials (mostly related to veterans' reunions); and newspaper clippings (1858-1915). There is a small folder of miscellaneous material and an oversize certificate attesting to Marshall's membership in the Minnesota chapter of the Sons of the American Revolution.
The diaries, 35 small volumes and related materials, contain information on Marshall's activities in the years 1851-1861, but are primarily devoted to his military service in the Civil and Sioux Wars (1861-1866). A typescript of a portion (1861, Nov. 20-1864, Mar. 14) of the war diary prepared by Marshall's daughter, Ethel, also forms part of the collection.
Diaries have been individually labeled in chronological order. A guide correlating volume numbers to dates has been filed with them. In some instances, wear on the pencil entries has rendered some pages nearly illegible. Some effort has been made to provide reconstruction of the entries. Diary entries after 1866 are few and scattered - clustered around and primarily concerned with the illnesses and deaths of Marshall's wife and eldest daughter.
Writings, both printed and manuscript, include poetry, speeches, newspaper articles, and letters to the editor (1863-1918 and undated).
One of the Indian arrows that wounded Marshall during the campaign of 1864.
This collection largely consists of Mayer's writings, in both final and draft form. There is a small amount of printed correspondence, including with notable economists Milton Friedman, Roger Backhouse, and others. The bulk of the collection consists of born-digital material, which contain both drafts and email correspondence.
A portion of Mayer's many articles and published works, which include both final versions (some photocopies, some offprints) as well as drafts and research for various articles. Subjects include monetary policy, bank regulation, ethics, methodology, and other topics in economics. Arranged alphabetically by title.
Encyclopedia entry
Published by The 1990 Institute
Published by CLM Economia
Draft
Typescript
Photocopy of Monograph Series in Finance and Economics
Draft
Working paper
Drafts
Offprint
Typescript
Drafts
Drafts
Published by Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco
Drafts and research
Statement by Mayer during Hearings before the Committee on the Budget, U.S. House of Representatives
Drafts
Published in Management World
Drafts and research
U.S. Bureau of Mines, Office of Chief Economist
Comments by Mayer at Asilomar Conference
Typescript
Published in Business Week
Typescript
Draft
Drafts
Statement by Mayer during Hearings before the Committee on Banking, Finance, and Urban Affairs
Photocopy
Photocopy of American Banker
Published by Policy Options Politiques
Offprint
Published by Methodus
Photocopy of Private Financial Institutions text
For INEM
Published in Mecurio
Photocopy
Photocopy
Joint Economic Committee, Congress of the U.S.
Offprint
Published in Economic Research Center of the State Planning Commission
Reprint
Photocopy
Given to the Finance, Insurance, and Commerce Committee
National Banking Review reprint
Reviews
American Banker photocopy
Drafts
Binder (now disbound into 4 folders) assembled by Mayer with reprints, photocopies, and other miscellaneous articles (appendices) written by him or used by him in research.
Correspondence and drafts from Association administration by Mayer
Photocopies of Mayer's book contracts; incomplete
Articles collected by or sent to Mayer, as well as some articles accompanied by his comments and responses. Arranged alphabetically by author's last name.
Includes letters between Mayer and fellow economists, including Milton Friedman, Roger Backhouse, Tim Congdon, and others. Letters are filed loosely by date.
The John M. McCalla Family Papers contain correspondence, personal, business, political, financial, military, and legal items, pamphlets, journals, letter books, ledgers, newspaper clippings, various volumes, and a family cook book.
Papers of John Moore McCalla (b. 1793), lawyer, politician, brigadier general of the Kentucky militia, and the second auditor of the United States constitute the bulk of this collection. The papers cover important historical events such as the War of 1812; several presidential elections, including Jackson, Polk, and Lincoln; The Mexican War; the annexation of Texas and Oregon; and the rise of the American Party. Letters dating from the Civil War period include discussions of McCalla Jr.'s work with the Quartermaster General and the Surgeon General's offices; Seminary Military Hospital in Georgetown; the ongoing military campaigns; and McCalla Sr.'s pro-South sympathies.
Volumes included cover several subject areas: financial and estate accounts, weather reports, an index to cases in Congress in the 1850s, and an accounting of property rental and construction; a pamphlet, 1839, with an address given at the fiftieth anniversary of the Lexington Light Infantry; a journal, 1860-1861, of Dr. John M. McCalla, Jr., written while he was an agent for the U. S. government in the return of slaves captured from a slaver, describing his journey to Liberia, the political and social conditions there, and life in Washington, D.C., in 1861; ledgers to the estates left to Helen Varnum (Hill) McCalla (including estates from James M. Varnum, Joseph B. Varnum, and Silas N. Hill); and a book listing gifts received by the family from the 1890s.
Family papers include journals and notes from various McCalla women, including Helen Louise Sargent; documentation of travel, family relationships, and estate business; clippings, including reports of political disputes in Kentucky; and other miscellaneous items.
The Correspondence is arranged chronologically. Correspondence discusses personal and family matters; presidential elections; the Mexican War; the annexation of Texas and Oregon (1845); the activities of McCalla and others in the Democratic and American Parties; the inauguration of Abraham Lincoln and the coming of the Civil War; various business ventures in Kentucky and Washington, D.C.; letters from several former McCalla slaves who settled in Liberia (circa 1834 and 1836); conditions in the Eastern Lunatic Asylum in Lexington, Kentuckey (circa 1826); McCalla's duties as U.S. marshal for the District of Kentucky; and his service as 2nd auditor in the Treasury Department.
Some of the letters in this series discuss personal or financial matters. For example, on Dec. 15, 1818, McCalla writes to Congressman Henry Clay asking his assistance in gaining compensation from the government. There are also 1820s letters between John McCalla and his brother, William Latta McCalla (a controversial Presbyterian minister), discussing personal difficulties, their families, and the Ebenezer Presbytery of Kentucky. Beginning in 1828, and continuing into the 1850s, a personal correspondence develops between John McCalla and Medard Coutre of Frenchtown, Monroe County, Michigan. Both men had participated in the River Basin Campaign of 1812-1813, and Coutre’s family settled on the site of the battle of Jan. 22, 1813.
The Correspondence also contains a large number of letters discussing political matters and disputes. Letters about the character and affairs of Henry Clay are written by Duff Green (1829), Thomas Patrick Moore (June 24, 1829) and S.H. Laughlin of Nashville (Sept. 2, 1844). John McLean, Supreme Court Justice, writes to congratulate McCalla on his appointment as U.S. Marshal on Feb. 16, 1830. On March 31, 1845, McCalla was appointed second auditor of the U. S. Treasury and immediately moved his family to Washington D.C. His term lasted until 1849. With Taylor's election, General McCalla left the Treasury Department to enter private law practice in Washington. Wm. 0. Butler writes in 1851 on his candidacy for the Presidency. There are details on the second auditor's office as McCalla gathers material for charges against his successor, Philip Clayton. With Franklin Pierce in office, McCalla again sought governmental appointment. In 1853, Pierce received letters from several individuals, all recommending that McCalla be re-appointed as second auditor.
On June 8, 1860, John McCalla's son, Dr. John Moore McCalla, Jr., becomes agent for the United States government in the return of slaves captured from a slaver. Materials related to his work with the American Colonization Society are also present in the Personal Papers series.
Along with business correspondence, McCalla's letter books contain financial accounts, poetry, property rentals, personal correspondence, and construction information. From the 1830s through the 1850s, these letter books contain mostly business correspondence of McCalla to various government officials, including President Andrew Jackson.
Financial Papers include business papers, account books, ledgers, daybooks, household accounts, bills and receipts, and tax records. Financial papers document the names of businesses in Washington, D. C., and include a number of tax assessments in that city. Ledgers chronicle John Moore McCalla’s time as United State auditor and his duties while in that position. Among the financial items are several books dealing with the account of J. B. Varnum.
Includes tax receipts and other tax accounts for unspecified places, as well as Washington D.C. and Lexington, Kentucky.
1 volume including account of Dr. Silas H. Hill with J.B. Varnum, as well as debts and tax records.
Largely empty.
Includes dates, receipts, expenditures, account summaries, the estate of Mary Butler Hill, and financial dealings with James M. Varnum.
The entirety of this ledger comprises payments and receipts from various endeavors.
Includes index, financial and accounting information. Mostly this ledger is a chronicle of real estate dealings and the trustee and financial information of Isabel (McCalla) Goldsboroughr.
2 account books in 1 folder.
5 account books in 1 folder.
This series contains both militia and legal papers, including deeds, wills, claims, leases, contracts, law licenses, indentures, papers dealing with the settlement of estates and McCalla's legal practice, militia rosters, accounts, petitions to sue, and court martial proceedings from the War of 1812. Interesting property involved is from estates of J. M. Varnum whose heirs are Helen V. Hill and Mary Isabel Hill for one part and Joseph B. Varnum on the other. This estate, centered in Washington real estate and securities, continued through the life of Isabel (McCalla) Goldsborough and Helen Hill Goldsborough.
On March 31, 1845, McCalla was appointed second auditor of the U.S. Treasury and immediately relocated to Washington. Many of the papers date from his time in office.
In an affidavit of Sept. 24, 1844, John McKee claims to have seen Henry Clay drinking spirits and using profanity, in Richmond, Kentucky in the fall of 1841. An index refers to cases in Congress during the 1950s and there is an address given at the fiftieth anniversary of the Lexington Light Infantry.
Personal papers contain collected newspaper clippings (pertaining to workers’ rights, especially women and children, religion, and political disputes), hymns, poetry, journals, art books, a cook book, and miscellaneous. McCalla’s personal writings, including short stories, lectures, articles and poetry, are also filed in this series, along with several journals. Chief among these journals is one from Dr. John M. McCalla, Jr., McCalla’s son. He documents his journey to Liberia from 1860-1861 when he was appointed as an agent for the U.S. government in the return of slaves captured from a slave ship. The rough draft of a book entitled “Select Reader Comprising of Choice Extracts, In prose and verse, adapted to the use of the public and private schools,” by Louisa McCalla is also included.
Hymns; prose and verse; poems; short story; articles; lecturesf
John Moore McCalla, Jr., kept a journal of a trip to Liberia in 1860 which concluded with brief entries on Washington, D.C., in 1861. The McCallas were active members of the American Colonization Society which worked in 1860 with the U.S. government to return to Africa 383 captives seized by a U.S. warship from a slaver. The slaves were brought into Key West, Florida, where the Colonization Society sent two ships, Star of the Union and South Shore, to pick up the Africans and transport them to Liberia. Dr. McCalla was appointed agent of the U.S. government by Secretary of Interior Jacob Thompson, and Dr. J. M. Grymes was named surgeon for the Colonization Society.
Dr. McCalla started on June 13, 1860, from New York by ship for Key West. He describes the town while awaiting the departure of the Star of the Union (p. 18). The Africans were from the Wydah tribe, whose customs are well described by Dr. McCalla. After seasickness and the death of a number of Africans, the ship arrived at Monrovia, Liberia, on Sept. 2, 1860, where the South Shore also docked about the same time. While part of the freed slaves were being landed at Monrovia, Dr. McCalla visited the town and described its houses. He met Judge Wilson and Dr. Joseph Jenkins Hoberts (1809-18?6), the black representatives of the American Colonization Society, as well as President Stephen A. Benson of Liberia and the missionary, the Rev. Alfred F. Russell. Dr.McCalla describes in detail a dinner at the home of the first President of Liberia, Dr. Joseph Roberts, and his wife, Jane (Waring) Roberts.
The Star of the Union sails to Greenville, Liberia, to land the last of the freed slaves. Koontown is described. Comment is made (p. 66) on the two Llberian political parties, True Liberians and Whigs. Dr. McCalla is interested in the native plants he finds and notes the ships which come and go frequently. He begins his return voyage on Sept. 21, 1860, stopping at Grand Turk and Salt Cay in the West Indies to take on a cargo of salt.
This portion of the journal contains a clipping, Apr. 8, 1870, from the New York Herald, reporting the wretched conditions of life in Liberia, the high death rate, and poor schools.
Topics include political news and disputes; letters to editor; press attacking McCalla; his removal as auditor; and a map of Boston's burnt district
Bound volume with accounts of gifts, visits, including re: J. M. McCalla's illness
The accession (2005-0028) (300 items, 0.6 lin. ft.; dated 1936-1994 and undated) consists of sermons, letters, and diaries of William Allen McFadden, 1930-1991; sermons, journals, and letters of Glenora English McFadden, circa 1936-1994; and letters of Estella Graves English, 1959-1986. Includes a genealogy list compiled by Irene English Shoemaker. Also contains ephemera, photographs, and clippings.
The addition (2005-0092) (404 items, 0.6 lin. ft.; dated ca. 1936-2000) contains correspondence to Glenora and Bill McFadden. Also includes photographs, 2 audiotapes, and clippings.
The addition (2007-0048) (760 items, 1.7 lin. ft.; dated 1921-2001) contains sermons, correspondence, and a typescript for History of Israel. Also includes Glenora English's school notebooks; a William McFadden notebook; a yearbook from Bedford High School, 1921; two yearbooks from De Pauw University, 1922 and 1925; and a glass slide.
The 2007 addition (2007-0125) (400 items, 0.8 lin. ft.; dated 1921-1998) contains printed materials, manuscripts, correspondence, sermons, and clippings as well as a yearbook, diary, and commonplace book.
The 2007 addition (2007-0215) (1000 items; 2 lin. ft.; dated 1926-2001) includes correspondence, scrapbooks, audio cassette tapes with recorded sermons, a yearbook, diaries, and photographs from the McFadden family, including letters from Bill to Glenora prior to their marriage. Also included is schoolwork from Margaret McFadden's childhood and high school years, and correspondence from her dating from the 1970s.
The 2009 addition (2009-0207) (2 items; 0.1 lin. ft.; dated 1928) includes 2 school notebooks belonging to Glenora English; one consists of her notes from American History and one is a project about United States geography.
The 2013 addition (2013-0188) (375 items; 0.5 lin. ft; dated 1993-2002) consists mainly of family correspondence.
Accession (300 items, 0.6 lin. ft.; dated 1936-1994 and undated) contains sermons, letters, and diaries of William Allen McFadden, 1930-1991; sermons, journals, and letters of Glenora English McFadden, circa 1936-1994; and letters of Estella Graves English, 1959-1986. Includes a genealogy list compiled by Irene English Shoemaker. Also contains ephemera, photographs, and clippings. Acquired as part of the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture.
Addition (404 items, 0.6 lin. ft.; dated ca. 1936-2000) comprises correspondence to Glenora and Bill McFadden. Also includes photographs, 2 audiotapes, and clippings.
Addition (760 items, 1.7 lin. ft.; dated 1921-2001) contains sermons, correspondence, and a typescript for History of Israel. Also includes Glenora English's school notebooks; a William McFadden notebook; a yearbook from Bedford High School, 1921; two yearbooks from De Pauw University, 1922 and 1925; and a glass slide.
The 2007 addition (400 items, 0.8 lin. ft.; dated 1921-1998) contains printed materials, manuscripts, correspondence, sermons, and clippings as well as a yearbook, diary, and commonplace book.
Addition (1000 items; 2 lin. ft.; dated 1926-2001) includes correspondence, scrapbooks, audio cassette tapes with recorded sermons, a yearbook, diaries, and photographs from the McFadden family, including letters from Bill to Glenora prior to their marriage. Also included is schoolwork from Margaret McFadden's childhood and high school years, and correspondence from her dating from the 1970s.
Mostly from Margaret from Europe (1971-1974), California and Colorado (1974-1975)
Addition (2009-0207) (2 items; 0.1 lin. ft.; dated 1928) includes 2 school notebooks belonging to Glenora English; one consists of her notes from American History and one is a project about United States geography.
Includes two copies of John B. McFerrin's book, Caldwell and Company: A Southern Financial Empire, as well as supporting documents (the majority dating from the 1920s-1930s) gathered by McFerrin during the research and writing of his book. The materials represent a sampling of material from Caldwell and Company. Pre-financial collapse material consists largely of sales support, including information and literature meant for distribution by the Caldwell and Company salesmen. Topics range from municipal bonds, mortgage real estate bonds, securities and investment pamphlets, life insurance, and informational newsletters about Caldwell products. Post-1930 materials relate largely to the fallout from the financial collapse of Caldwell, including various court case briefs, indentures, a report from Lee Douglas and Rutledge Smith, Caldwell and Company Receivers, and a consolidated schedule with the financial records of the company and the Bank of Tennessee. Also included are newspaper clippings, dated 1896-1980; an article by McFerrin about the Kentucky Rock Asphalt Company; and other miscellaneous materials.
A booklet that gives a well organized presentation of recommended sales bites, sample letters to solicit investors, pictures of the office building and its directors, history of the company, and company information and statistics.
This collection involves five main series: Collection Information, Correspondence, Personal Papers, Printed Materials and Publications, Visual Materials, and Audio-Visual Materials.
The Collection Information Series was compiled by John David McGee, and it provides a detailed guide to using the McGee Family Papers. It includes lists and details of all series in the collection, background information on the family, a list of Baptist missionaries in Nigeria, and a thorough history of the Baptist Mission in Nigeria.
The Correspondence Series includes early correspondence between John S. McGee and Doris Thompson, as well as Doris Thompson and her mother and later correspondence between members of the McGee family as they were separated during various Nigerian tours. Letters from Nigerian friends and missionary kids are also included. Letters deal with a variety of subjects, including life in Nigeria and daily occurrences as a missionary, John David's academic, career, and life plans, and arrangements for visits to Nigeria.
The Personal Papers Series includes three subseries: Doris McGee, John S. McGee and John David McGee. Amongst Doris McGee's personal items are prayer diaries that span almost her entire life, attendance and report cards, diplomas and awards, her personal writings and poems, items concerning her death and various miscellaneous items such as personal correspondence with friends and historical items concerning their time in Africa. Included in John S. McGee's personal papers are diplomas and certificates, a personal diary, address books and contact lists, his personal writings and notes, and articles concerning his death. John David McGee's personal items include early homework and report cards, diplomas, documents pertaining to soccer and the U.S. Soccer National Federation, and professional references and C.V.s.
The Printed Materials and Publications Series includes five subseries: printed materials by the McGee family members, books from the library of John S. and Doris McGee, books from the library of John David McGee, printed materials by other authors, and Baptist Mission to Nigeria Minutes. The McGee family publications include bound notebooks from John S. McGee's early life, published books and memoirs, and a case study written by Erin McGee after her visit to Nigeria. Also included are several religious pamphlets and texts authored and arranged by Doris McGee. Books from the library of John S. and Doris McGee are relevant to their personal life and history and include numerous bibles, high school and college yearbooks. Books from the library of John David McGee include books focusing on the history of the Baptist Mission to Nigeria, general books on Africa, and several Yoruba dictionaries. The other authors subseries includes diaries of other Nigerian missionaries, books about African missionaries and books about life in Africa. The Baptist Mission to Nigeria Minutes include bound volumes of the annual minutes of the missionary meeting, from 1950 to 1998.
The Visual Materials series is composed of four subseries: slides, photo albums, mounted photographs, and foam-core mounted photographs. The slides subseries contains hundreds of slides of photographs from the McGee family's time in Nigeria. The slides are all numbered and grouped into several major categories (listed below) and a description of each picture can be found in the Collection Information Series. The photo albums include pictures of John S. and Doris McGee's early life in college, seminary and early Nigeria, John David's baby years, a missionary trip to Brazil, and other family pictures. The mounted photographs were furnished by Foreign Mission Board and were taken in various missionary camps in Nigeria. The foam-core mounted photographs include memorial photos of John S. and Doris McGee, various early photos, John S. and Doris McGee with their grand- and great-grandchildren and the last photographs before John S. and Doris' deaths.
Slides 000-999: Missionaries and Missionary Kids ("MKs")
Slides 1000-1999: Nigerians
Slides 2000-2999: Baptist Mission Churches
Slides 3000-3999: Baptist Mission Schools
Slides 4000-4999: Baptist Mission Medical Work
Slides 5000-5999: General Life Scenes
Slides 6000-7999: Places/Locations
Slides 8000-8999: Mission Stations
Slides 9001-9999: Family/Personal
The Audio-Visual Materials Series includes several recordings and films taken by the McGee family members of various tours in Nigeria. The films range from 1945 to 2009, and span the three generations of McGee missionaries. Also included is a DVD about the Conferment of Chieftaincy on John David McGee. The audio materials include several recordings of John and Doris McGee telling their life stories, talking about missionary work in Nigeria (especially regarding Baptist churches), and their first tour. The reel-to-reel tapes include audio-recordings of the McGee family as they were separated during various Nigerian tours. Ten super-8 film reels document John David McGee's trips to Nigeria from 1972 to 1983, which were the video source for the DVDs and video-cassette tapes.
This collection also contains digital surrogates created by the donor of many documents and slides. These items have been transferred to a preservation server and are available for use in the reading room.
Compiled by John David McGee, the Collection Information Series provides a detailed guide to using the McGee Family Papers. It includes lists and details of all series in the collection, background information on the family, a list of Baptist missionaries in Nigeria, and a thorough history of the Baptist Mission in Nigeria. The materials reflect both the 2011 and 2013 accessions.
Includes early correspondence between John S. McGee and Doris Thompson and Doris Thompson and her mother as well as later correspondence between members of the McGee family as they were separated during various Nigerian tours. Letters from Nigerian friends and missionary kids are also included. Letters deal with a variety of subjects, including life in Nigeria and daily occurrences as a missionary, John David's academic, career, and life plans, and arrangements for visits to Nigeria.
This series includes three subseries: Doris McGee, John S. McGee and John David McGee.
Included amongst Doris McGee's personal papers are attendance and report cards from high school, diplomas and honorary awards, poems and notes, and items concerning her death. The (mainly prayer) diaries follow Doris McGee's early life in high school and college, her time in Nigeria, and her retired life in America. Also included are several financial journals (one of which dates to high school), typed portions and a topical organization of earlier diary entries.
Items in this series include diplomas and other honors; contact lists and address books of friends and missionaries; sermon notes, chapter notes and classroom notebooks; a diary; condolences for death of John S. McGee and items pertaining to his memorial.
Items include homework, report cards, diplomas; correspondence with friends and family; documents pertaining to soccer, the U.S. Soccer National Federation and youth revival; and professional references, notes, C.V.s.
The series includes five subseries: printed materials by the McGee family members, books from the library of John S. and Doris McGee, books from the library of John David McGee, printed materials by other authors, and Baptist Mission to Nigeria Minutes.
Includes bound notebooks from John S. McGee's early life, published books and memoirs, and a case study written by Erin McGee after her visit to Nigeria. Also included are several religious pamphlets and texts authored and arranged by Doris McGee.
These books were relevant to John S. and Doris McGee's personal life and history. Includes numerous bibles, high school and college yearbooks. Some books may include personal notes by Doris or John S. McGee.
Includes books on the history of the Baptist Mission to Nigeria, general books on Africa, and several Yoruba dictionaries.
Includes diaries of Nigerian missionaries, books about African missionaries and about life in Africa.
This series is divided into four subseries: slides, photo albums, mounted photographs, and foam-core mounted photographs.
The slides subseries is chiefly composed of hundreds of slides from the McGee family's time in Nigeria. The slides are all numbered and grouped into several major categories (listed below). A description of each picture can be found in the Collection Information Series. Newer additions have been placed at the back of each major category.
Slides 000-999: Missionaries and Missionary Kids ("MKs")
Slides 1000-1999: Nigerians
Slides 2000-2999: Baptist Mission Churches
Slides 3000-3999: Baptist Mission Schools
Slides 4000-4999: Baptist Mission Medical Work
Slides 5000-5999: General Life Scenes
Slides 6000-7999: Places/Locations
Slides 8000-8999: Mission Stations
Slides 9001-9999: Family/Personal
The photo albums include pictures of John S. and Doris McGee's early life in college, in seminary and in early Nigeria, John David's baby years, a missionary trip to Brazil, and other family pictures.
Seven 16x20 mounted color prints furnished by Foreign Mission Board in various missionary camps in Nigeria and photographed by Gerald S. Harvey. Captions are original.
Includes memorial photos of John S. and Doris McGee, early photos, John S. and Doris McGee with their grand- and great-grandchildren and the last photographs before John S. and Doris' deaths.
The Audio-Visual Materials Series includes several recordings and films taken by the McGee family members of various tours in Nigeria. The films range from 1945 to 2009, and span the three generations of McGee missionaries. Also included is a DVD about the Conferment of Chieftaincy on John David McGee. The audio materials include several recordings of John and Doris McGee telling their life stories, talking about missionary work in Nigeria (especially regarding Baptist churches), and their first tour. The reel-to-reel tapes include audio-recordings of the McGee family as they were separated during various Nigerian tours. Ten super-8 film reels document John David McGee's trips to Nigeria from 1972 to 1983, which were the video source for the DVDs and video-cassette tapes.
16mm compilation reel, created John S. McGee and documenting his family's Baptist mission work in Nigeria in the 1940s and 1950s.
Talking letters and other recordings from the McGees in Nigeria and Seattle. Supplemental information provided by John David McGee.
Includes selected digital surrogates provided by the donor, as well as a small number of born-digital files documenting the physical materials and the collection's scope. Digital surrogates include selections from family and professional correspondence; slides; diaries; minutes from the Baptist Mission to Nigeria; and materials related to John Sidney and Doris McGee's life, retirement, and death.
The Charles McKinney Papers cover the years 1952-1993, with the bulk of materials dating from 1968-1990, the period during which McKinney served as President and CEO of the McKinney & Silver (M&S) advertising agency. The collection primarily consists of correspondence; memoranda; clippings; presentations to clients; proofs; speeches; reports; McKinney's handwritten drafts of advertising campaigns; and brochures from graphic artists and design companies. The collection also includes films and videocassettes of advertising spots, slides for new business presentations, and periodicals related to advertising and graphic design. Companies represented in the collection include American Drew; Bacardi Corporation; Bahamas Tourism; Barnett Banks; Benihana; Beatrice Foods Company; Bigelow-Sanford Carpet Company; Black & Decker Corporation; Braniff Airways; Brown & Forman Inc.; Brown & Williamson; Colours; Del Monte Corporation; Drackett; Dunlop Sport; GoodMark Foods, Inc.; Gravely; Homelite; Kingsdown; Mars, Inc.; North Carolina National Bank; North Carolina Travel and Tourism; Norweigan Cruise Line; PET Dairy; Piedmont Airlines, Inc.; Pillsbury Company; Pine State Dairy; Quincy's; Royal Caribbean Cruise Line; Tile Council of America; Travelmation; and USAir Group, Inc.; among others.
Many of the clippings and presentation drafts and fragments arrived unfoldered and interspersed throughout the collection. Complete presentation drafts were foldered by presentation title; presentation fragments and clippings were foldered as miscellaneous. Many of McKinney's drafts of advertising campaigns appeared in ruled notepads, often with clippings and additional sketched interleaved. Items attached to a particular notepad were foldered together and titled by subject and detached from cardboard backing. Legal sized notes were photocopied and reduced to letter size.
Contains files related to the management of the McKinney & Silver office and files related to McKinney's personal and business affairs. Items are divided into four subseries. Administrative Files include office-wide policies, agency profiles, questionnaires, general income reports, press releases, as well as resumes of company employees. Clippings consist of newspaper, magazine and photocopied book excerpts gathered by McKinney and his acquaintances. Correspondence includes correspondence and internal memoranda written by McKinney and other agency employees. Personal Materials include photographs of McKinney, event-related memorabilia, as well as McKinney's business cards and personal stationery.
Primarily includes information related to agency procedures such as billing, everyday operations, workflows, cost estimating, legal reviews, and office arrangement. Includes descriptions of the agency's philosophy and corporate profile. Also contains background information on agency employees, account assignments. Original folder titles were maintained and arranged alphabetically.
Contains newspaper and magazine clippings related to general advertising issues and to particular advertising agencies. Also includes photocopied excerpts of books on marketing, some of which were compiled as reference materials for M&S presentations. Original folder titles were mainatined where available. Items arriving in unfoldered stacks were foldered as miscellaneous.
Contains correspondence and memoranda written between McKinney, other agency executives, potential clients, competitive agencies, prospective employees and sales solicitors. Includes McKinney's correspondence with officials in the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill Business School, and with personal friends. Also includes correspondence related to a 1993 lawsuit involving Braniff Airways. Original folder titles were maintained where available. Items arriving loose were grouped as either General correspondence or Miscellaneous internal memoranda. Folders arranged alphabetically.
Contains photograph portraits of McKinney, McKinney's business cards and letterhead stationery and ephemera related to advertising events.
Contains files related to M&S's active accounts, as well as some general files and presentations containing sales reports for multiple accounts, market research, and miscellaneous clippings relating to M&S accounts. The bulk of the materials contain presentation scripts, advertising proofs, creative development plans and correspondence tailored to specific clients, including companies specializing in clothing, food, tobacco, liquor and travel. Contains especially extensive materials for Bacardi Corporation; Barnett Banks; Benihana; Braniff Airways; Brown & Forman Inc.; Brown & Williamson; Colours (clothing); GoodMark Foods, Inc. (including the Slim Jim line of products); Gravely (tractors); Kingsdown (mattresses); Mars, Inc.; North Carolina National Bank; Norweigan Cruise Line; PET Dairy; Piedmont Airlines; Pillsbury; Pine State Dairy; Royal Caribbean Cruise Line; Tile Council of America; and USAir Group, Inc.
Also includes some presentations composed by competitive advertising agencies, including Daisy Outdoor Products (Bloom Agency); Jim Dandy Chunx Dog Food, Hanes; Orkin Exterminating Co.; Savannah Sugar Refining Co. (Cargill, Wilson & Acree); Leader Savings & Loan (McDonald & Little). Items arrived foldered. Original folder titles were maintained where available. Unfoldered or unlabeled items were foldered or labeled by account and type of material. Large format proofs were separated into the Oversize series.
Contains correspondence, printed materials, proofs and clippings related to competitive advertising agencies. Includes resumes, company profiles and brochures prepared by agencies, as well as presentations and pamphlets prepared on general marketing issues. Represented agencies include Ted Bates Agency; Howard Agency; Gold Greelees Trott; Doyle Dane Bernbach; Delehanty, Kurnit & Geller, Inc.; Campbell-Mithun, Inc.; Cargill, Wilson & Acree; Norman, Craig & Kummel; Ogilvy & Mather; John Rockwell & Associates; Scali, McCabe, Sloves; and Wells, Rich, Greene, Inc., among others. Items arrived loose and were grouped by agency and arranged alphabetically.
Contains materials related to M&S's attempts to acquire new accounts. The bulk of the materials include drafts and scripts of general agency presentations designed for prospective clients. Also includes reference materials relating to these presentations and research reports relating to particular markets, such as cold relief, snack food, diet food, travel and tourism. Some materials document the agency's general strategies for acquiring new business. Also contains correspondence relating to specific accounts targetted by the agency, such as Porsche and Smith Airlines. Items arrived foldered and original folder titles were maintained.
Subseries includes materials documenting the agency's approach to gaining new business, primarily including market research, strategy statements.
Contains drafts of general agency presentations and advertisements. Bulk of materials include McKinney's handwritten notes in which he experimented with agency slogans and general campaign concepts, particularly those which became the basis for the agency's flip chart presentations. Contains extensive materials related to the agency's Anatomy of Selling an Idea campaign, which referenced the life and work of artist Leonardo da Vinci. Most of the items arrived as ruled note pads, with reference materials and additional drafts interleaved. Perforated pages from legal pads were detached. Legal sized items were photocopied and reduced to letter size. Original order of notebook pages and interleaved items was maintained. Items were grouped into folders according to the notepad to which they were attached. The presentation's title was used as the folder title; where no title was available, the presentation's first words were used as folder title. Notepads containing sketches for multiple or unidentifiable presentations were detached, paperclipped and foldered as miscellaneous flip chart drafts or miscellaneous presentation drafts. Folders arranged alphabetically.
Contains primarily typewritten scripts of general agency presentations given to prospective clients. Also contains slides relating to a general agency presentation. Where provided, original folder titles were maintained. Many items arrived loose and interspersed throughout the collection. These items were grouped either according to presentation title or according to the first few words of the title, and arranged alphabetically.
Subseries includes reports of new business conferences, status and production. Original folder titles were maintained and items were arranged alphabetically.
Includes newsletters, promotional materials, periodicals, reports, and typographic manuals. Items were arranged alphabetically by title.
Contains periodicals related to advertising, marketing, commercial photography and graphic design. Items arrived loose and interspersed throughout the collection. Where multiple issues of publication were present, items were grouped and foldered by title. Single issues were foldered by subject category.
Contains promotional pamphlets, brochures and take-away-cards sent by particular companies and graphic artists hoping to gain the business of M&S. Items arrived loose and interspersed throughout the collection. In cases where multiple brochures were present from a particular company, items were foldered by company. All other items were foldered as miscellaneous promotional material.
Contains speeches given by McKinney and other advertising executives at various events. Also includes reports prepared by outside agencies on general advertising and business-related topics which McKinney used as reference. Items were foldered and labelled according to speech title and arranged alphabetically.
Contains various formats primarily of M&S advertising spots; promotional films; and presentation reels prepared by competitive agencies, including Angotti Thomas & Hedge, Bartle Bogle Hegarty Ltd., Boase Massimi Pollitt, Chiat Day, Fallon McElligott Rice, Goodby Berlin & Silverstein, and J. Walter Thompson. Includes two videos related to the 1988 Out of Towners Exhibition in New York City.
M&S clients represented include Barnett Banks, Carolina Power & Light, GoodMark Foods, Inc., Kingsdown, Pine State, North Carolina National Bank, South Carolina National Bank, Mastercard, Royal Caribbean, Bahamas, Piedmont, Benihana, Brown & Williamson, and North Carolina DWI.
Items were grouped by format and arranged alphabetically by title.
Middle of Nowhere :30; Details :30; Fresh Flowers :30; The Show :30; My Private Island :30
"GOOD MARRIAGE" 7 NIGHT CARIBBEAN $599; "SHUT INS" 3 NIGHT BAJA $299; "RIGHT ABOUT You" 7 NIGHT MEXICO$599; "YOUR CHILDREN" 3 NIGHT BAHAMAS $299; "ROCKED TO SLEEP" 7 NIGHT MEXICO $599; "SHE'S GOING ASHORE" 7 NIGHT CARIBBEAN $599; "HAVE A HONEYMOON" 7 NIGHT BERMUDA $599; " HAVE A HONEYMOON " 7 NIGHT BERMUDA $599; "TERRIBLE Twos" 7 NIGHT CARIBBEAN $599; "HOLIDAY/ TURt',F,:YS" 1-8OO-FOR-RCCL; "LAZY Boy" 7 NIGHT CARIBBEAN $599; "MIDNIGHT BUFFET" 3 NIGHT BAHAMAS $299; "DRIFT TOGETHER" 3 NIGHT BAJA$299; "LOVE Is PATIENT; KIND" 3 NIGHT BAJA $299; "LIKE AT HOME ... IN HIS DREAMS" 7 NIGHT MEXICO $599 "BEER/ FOOD/ GOLF" 3 NIGHT BAJA $299; "ENDS OF THE EARTH" 7 NIGHT ALASKA$599; "HEART IN THE SAME PLACE" I 2 NIGHT EUROPE; "MINIVAN" 3 NIGHT BAJA $299; "GOLF" 7 NIGHT GOLF $599; "COLUMBUS DAY" 3 NIGHT BAHAMAS $299
[Includes spots for Audi, Pretty Polly, British Telecom, Puma, K Shoes, Allied Dunbar, Moosehead Manufacturing Co. and Levi Strauss & Co.]
[Includes spots for Oral-B, 3M Company, California Cooler, Worlds of Wonder's Teddy Ruxpin, and Apple]
[Includes spots for Home Savings & Loan and Foster Farms]
[Includes American Bell: O&M's Winning Presentation, Special Events Sponsorship: Extending Your Advertising Dollar]
[Includes spots for Piedmont Airlines, NCNB, North Carolina DWI Campaign, Benihana]
[Includes spots for Benihana, Norweigan Cruise Line, NCNB, Piedmont, GoodMark Foods, Inc., North Carolina DWI, Carolina Power & Light]
1. Norwegian Cruise Lines, "Radar"; 2. Piedmont, "First Class"; 3. Benihana, "Mysterious"; 4. Piedmont, "Vacation-Laid Back-DCA"; 5. CP and L, "Telephone"; 6. NCNB, "Nickel and Dime"; 7. Jesse Jones, "Airplane"; 8. DWI, "Tough Laws"; 9. Benihana, "Chuck Wagon"; 10. Piedmont, "Moon Map"
[Includes spots for Benihana, Norweigan Cruise Line, NCNB, Piedmont, GoodMark Foods, Inc., North Carolina DWI, Carolina Power & Light]
[Includes spots for Piedmont, Carolina Power & Light, NCNB, SCNB]
[Includes spots for Piedmont, Tom's, NCNB, Carolina Power & Light]
[Includes spots for Pine State, Kingsdown, NCNB, Barnett Banks, GoodMark Foods, Inc. Jesse Jones Meats]
[Includes spots for Piedmont, Benihana, South Carolina National Bank, Pine State, NCNB, Brown & Williamson, Carolina Power & Light]
[Includes Fallon McElligott, Leonard Monahan Saabye, Livingston & Co., Martin Agency, M&S, Richards Group]
[Includes spot for Nike, Inc.]
[Plastic model airplane on pedestal printed with Piedmont logo, kept in McKinney's office.]
The collection contains primarily correspondence and greeting cards, including correspondence with John Craig Wheeler (considered the father of black holes) on parapsychology and its intersection with theoretical physics. Also includes news clippings and scrapbooks documenting McMahan's life; illustrations she made describing her travels aboard Pacific-traveling cargo ships; several of her self-published children's books; and compilations of her cartoons from The Meadowlark, a newsletter published by Carolina Meadows, a retirement community in Chapel Hill, N.C. Acquired as part of the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture.
Subsequent additions include materials relating to McMahan's termite research; book illustrations; her early life, including school materials and World War II ephemera; and personal correspondence with friends and relatives. Also includes a memorial tribute to her.
Includes letters and hand-made birthday cards to J.B. Rhine. Also contains letters to family from Costa Rica and Puerto Rico.
Includes original artwork, newspaper, and magazine clippings.
Includes clippings, correspondence and photographs.
Addition consists of McMahan's artwork, correspondence (including with friend and colleague Howard T. Odum), photographs, journals, diplomas, and other ephemera.
Addition comprises correspondence, field notes, journals, and sketch books related to McMahan's termite research. Also includes newsletters, photographs, certificates, and awards.
Addition comprises primarily original illustrations by McMahan. Also includes correspondence, children's stories, cartoons, a sketchbook, postcards, poetry, lecture notes, travel journals, clippings and one VHS tape containing an interview with McMahan held in 2004.
Addition comprises primarily correspondence written by McMahan to Burke Smith; 6 photographs; clippings; and sketches of cartoons by the donor.
Addition (2009-0203) (100 items; 0.4 lin. ft.; dated 1946-1987) includes a Thematic Apperception Test, Duke parapsychology lab communications, color slides of Duke's campus (1957), UNC Department of Zoology correspondence, materials on Donald Costello and Burke Smith, and miscellaneous materials from McMahan's retirement in 1987. Addition (2009-0206) (1 item; 0.2 lin. ft.; dated 1950s-1960s) consists of a photo album with unlabelled photographs of the J.B. Rhine family and the Duke parapsychology laboratory.
Includes cards, manuals, and interpretation guide.
Includes Department of Zoology correspondence, 1960s, and Nixon Library correspondence, 1981.
Includes unlabelled photographs of J.B. Rhine, his family, and the Duke Parapscyhology Laboratory, 1950s-1960s.
Addition (2009-0222) (700 items; 1.2 lin. ft.) includes subject files, correspondence, and other materials from McMahan's retirement. Subjects include Jamaica, freighter travel, UNC's Zoology Department, etc. Box 2 of this material is housed with Acc. 2010-0132.
Addition (2010-0132) (29 items; 0.1 lin. ft.; dated 1985-2009 and undated) contains flyers and email from the UNC biology dept. and library; McMahan's obituaries and memorial program; two articles she published on the Assassin bug;, newspaper clippings on her work; and copies of her cartoon works, including two of her children's books.
Addition (2011-0124) (2 items, 0.1 lin. ft.; dated 2010) comprises a journal copy of SOCIOBIOLOGY (2010 Vol. 56, no. 1) containing a memorial tribute to McMahan, along with a reprint of the piece.
The Mary McMillan Papers, 1936-1997 and undated (bulk 1952-1991), consist chiefly of journals and printed material, but also include correspondence, writings and speeches, photographic material, scrapbooks, clippings, videocassettes, audio cassettes, and memorabilia. Arranged in nine series based primarily on the format of the material, the papers illuminate the personal life and professional work of McMillan, a United Methodist missionary and teacher at the Hiroshima Jo Gakuin College in Hiroshima, Japan. In addition to her work as a teacher, the collection documents McMillan's service to the Kyodan, a unifying organization for Christian missionaries in Japan, and to the hibakusha, the survivors of the atomic bomb attacks on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, as well as her peace activism. Also included are materials related to the Topaz Relocation Center, a Japanese-American internment camp in Utah where McMillan worked in 1943. The papers are mostly in English, but include some Japanese language materials.
The bulk of the collection consists of the Journals Series, whose 43 journals contain almost daily accounts of McMillan's work at Hiroshima Jo Gakuin College, her involvement with the Ushita Christian Church, and her encounters with friends and other people. Also included are her personal thoughts about world events, particularly those related to peace and nuclear disarmament. Beginning on Aug. 11, 1939 with the final preparations for her initial departure, McMillan records her activities through her first year and a half in Japan. The 1939 and 1940 journals document in depth McMillan's adaptation to life in Japan, including her training in the Japanese language and customs, her first visits to various cities throughout the country, and the difficulties she faced as an American woman in pre-World War II Japan. After she and other American workers in Hiroshima were forcibly evacuated on Feb. 29, 1941, journal entries are scarce; however, the almost-daily entries resume in 1952 and continue until the day of McMillan's death on July 19, 1991.
In addition to the journals, McMillan's professional work as a United Methodist missionary and teacher at Hiroshima Jo Gakuin College is well documented through the Correspondence Series, Writings and Speeches Series, and Printed Material Series. The Biographical Material Series includes McMillan's handwritten autobiographical notes, as well as newspaper and magazine clippings and booklets documenting McMillan's work at Hiroshima Jo Gakuin College, and with the Ushita Christian Church, which McMillan helped found in 1948. McMillan's correspondence also sheds light on her work through "mission letters," mass mailings which she wrote periodically as a way of updating her supporters in the United States on her work in Hiroshima.
McMillan also was a staunch advocate of world peace and nuclear disarmament, and after her retirement from the United Methodist Church in 1980, she spent much of her time writing letters and speaking in churches throughout the United States promoting her cause. McMillan's role as a pacifist is well well documented throughout the entire collection by her correspondence, photographs of demonstrations and marches, printed materials, and items in the Clippings Series. Much of the material in the Writings and Speeches Series and the Printed Material Series is related to peace activism, and covers topics such as the lingering effects of the atomic bomb attack on Hiroshima and that city's fight for peace, the first-hand accounts of bomb survivors, and the United Methodist Church's pacifist stance.
Also contributing to an understanding of McMillan's life, the Photographic Material Series and the Memorabilia Series offer visual and three-dimensional documentation of her activities as a missionary, teacher, and friend to the Japanese.
Contains biographical material related to Mary McMillan and her work. Included are autobiographical writings, personal and work-related papers, newspaper and magazine clippings, and printed materials documenting her life. Arranged in chronological order.
Contains 43 journals maintained by McMillan during her time in Hiroshima and her retirement, documenting in great detail her daily life and work as well as her travels throughout East Asia. She also noted her thoughts and concerns about world events and her peace activism. Many entries describe visits by her students and friends in Japan and provide a revealing look at Japanese social life and customs. The journals are arranged chronologically. Many small groups of loose materials were found laid into the beginning or end of the journals; these were removed and placed in a separate folder following the journal; some of these items appear to be unrelated to the journals in which they were found.
Personal and professional correspondence of Mary McMillan, divided into outgoing and incoming subseries and arranged in chronological order. The Outgoing Correspondence primarily contains letters sent by McMillan to churches or individuals in the United States who had supported her work in Japan. These "mission letters" describe McMillan's work at Hiroshima Jo Gakuin College and Ushita Christian Church as well as her beliefs in world peace and disarmament. Some of the Incoming Correspondence, particularly in the early 1980s, is in Japanese. The majority of the letters are to McMillan from friends, missionaries, and former students in Japan after her retirement in 1980. Also included in a small third subseries is other correspondence that was neither to nor from McMillan. Many of these letters were written to Jane Greenwood, McMillan's sister, from individuals and organizations expressing their condolences over McMillan's death. A few pieces of correspondence have photographs clipped to them.
Reports, essays, and other unpublished material, divided into three subseries containing writings by Mary McMillan, writings by other individuals, and audiovisual materials. All items are ordered chronologically within the subseries. The BetaMax and VHS video cassettes in the audiovisual materials subseries require use copies; the audio cassettes have use copies already available.
Primarily handwritten and personal essays documenting peace activism and the nuclear disarmament movements in the United States and Japan.
Contains reports and essays documenting the peace movement, as well as the growth of the Christian Church in Japan and the works of the Kyodan, the organization which unified the missionaries of the various Protestant denominations in Japan. Also included are poems and other creative works written by McMillan's friends that explore peace and Church activism, as well as tributes to McMillan.
Videotapes, audio cassettes, and one phonograph record containing recordings of speeches and debates regarding the future of Japan, the history of Hiroshima Jo Gakuin College, and the continued effects in Hiroshima of the atomic bomb. Also included is a video of McMillan's farewell ceremony prior to her retirement, as well as an LP recording of the song A Message for Tomorrow. Arranged in original order. Use copies are available for the audio cassettes. Master audio cassette tapes are filed immediately following the use copies.
Divided into two subseries for photographs and for slides; the material is further organized by subject matter. There are images of the Topaz Relocation Center in Utah, Hiroshima Jo Gakuin College, McMillan's friends, former students and their families. Other images document her travels throughout East Asia, including trips to China and Taiwan. The bulk of the material consists of black-and-white and color casual snapshots of McMillan, her Japanese friends, and her former students with their families. These photographs document Japanese wedding traditions and other ceremonies as well as various marches and activities promoting peace and nuclear disarmament. There are ten images taken at the Topaz Japanese internment camp; most of the photographs were labeled with names and sometimes dates. The slides are in color and consist chiefly of images from McMillan's travels. All materials are arranged in chronological order
Contains two bound volumes: a guest book kept by McMillan from 1940 to 1982, which lists the names and addresses of her visitors, and a scrapbook of notes and photographs, compiled by the students and staff at Hiroshima Jo Gakuin College and presented to McMillan upon her retirement in 1980.
Consists primarily of newsletters, pamphlets, flyers, and church bulletins. It is divided into five subseries, based on the primary subject content of the material: Hiroshima and Japan, Topaz Relocation Center, Church, Peace Activism, and Other Activism. Material is arranged chronologically within the subseries. Also included in the list are three books that have been cataloged separately and are housed in the Special Collections stacks. Items in Japanese have been noted in the list below.
Includes biographies or memoirs of Japanese citizens or others influential in Japanese society, books and pamphlets about the history of Hiroshima, numerous college catalogs from Hiroshima Jo Gakuin College, and journals and newsletters documenting the life of Japanese-Americans.
Contains two programs published in conjunction with the 1988 reunion held by those who were interned at the camp.
Primarily documents the work of the Methodist Church as well as the National Christian Council of Japan and the Kyodan in the Japanese society. Church bulletins, from Japan and the United States, are also included. Primary publications represented include The Methodist Witness, Japan Christian Activity News, Kyodan Newsletter, and The Kyodan Missionary Bulletin. Arranged in chronological order.
Consists primarily of newsletters from organizations promoting world peace and nuclear disarmament, such as the Alternative World Foundation, the Center for Defense Information, the Council for a Livable World, War Resisters' League, and the World Friendship Center. Arranged chronologically.
Contains material documenting McMillan's other activism efforts, including the promotion of justice and literacy. This subseries consists primarily of issues of the Washington Spectator, a liberal activists' publication produced by the Public Concern Foundation, an organization which reports on political activities in Washington, D.C. Arranged in date order.
Contains one folder of newspaper and magazine clippings, primarily related to peace activism. A small number of clippings are in Japanese. The clippings, which are arranged chronologically, document the lingering effects of the atomic bomb on the people of Hiroshima, the Vietnam War, the growth of the United States' Star Wars defense system, and the conflict in the Middle East.
Contains five folders, whose contents include three Japanese-style paper dolls, an origami crane, and other small sketches and paintings; 15 business cards, primarily printed in both English and Japanese; three buttons collected from peace rallies or United Methodist Church meetings; and certificates presented to McMillan by various organizations for her social activism. Also included is a certificate presented to her after her voyage across the Pacific during her first trip to Japan in 1939. The final folder contains donation and membership cards, and documents the array of non-profit organizations with which McMillan was involved.
Family and business correspondence and invention papers of the McMullen family, spanning the years 1783-1969, with the majority of the material dating from about 1880-1945. Arranged in the following series: Correspondence, Legal Papers, Pictures, Financial Papers, Invention Papers, Miscellaneous, and Volumes.
The papers of John McMullen (1791-1870), inventor, consist of correspondence concerning family matters in Ireland; McMullen's efforts to assist relatives in gaining passage to the United States, the operation of his farm in Sinking Valley in Pennsylvania; a trip to England, 1850-1851, to sell his inventions; the invention of machines to knit stockings and fish nets; patents; the receipt of the Exhibitor's Medal for a machine shown at the Exhibition of the Works of All Nations at the Crystal Palace, London, England, in 1853 including a letter from President Millard Fillmore notifying him of the award; and an exhibition of a knitting machine at the New York Crystal Palace at the Exhibition of the Industry of All Nations in 1854.
The papers of John Francis McMullen (1830-1900), son of John McMullen, and of his wife, Lavalette (Johnston) McMullen (d. 1941), daughter of John Warfield Johnston, senator from Virginia, include correspondence while John Francis McMullen attended St. Mary's College, Baltimore, Maryland; letters from William Hand Browne (1828-1912), editor and librarian, describing his travels in the South during the early years of the Civil War; personal and family correspondence with friends and relatives, including letters from Senator Johnston containing references to his political activities; letters from the Sisters of the Order of the Visitation of Holy Mary concerning the education of the McMullen daughters at various schools run by the order; letters of Jean de Hedonville describing cattle ranching in Montana, life on the Crow Indian Reservation, and a camping trip to Yellowstone National Park; correspondence relating to the settlement of the estate of John Warfield Johnston; and business correspondence concerning his father's inventions and cattle raising.
Correspondence of the children of John Francis and Lavalette McMullen consists of letters of Mary McMullen, principally while a companion to Jane Agnes Riggs, daughter of George Washington Riggs, Washington banker, describing Riggs family history and their travels in Europe and the United States before World War I; letters to Mary from her cousin, novelist Mary Johnston (1870-1936); family letters of John Francis McMullen II (d. 1944), an engineer; letters of Benedict Dysart McMullen, writer, while serving with the American Red Cross in Europe during World War I; correspondence of Joseph Benjamin McMullen (d. 1965), inventor, concerning his many inventions, including aerial "drop" bombs during World War I, automobile accessories, kitchen utensils, household gadgets, and pressure and pull firing devices and collapsible vehicles during World War II; and papers relating to the settlement of a disputed legacy left Mary McMullen by Jane Riggs and correspondence concerning the sale of much of the inheritance. Also included are papers relating to the estates of the various members of the McMullen family; invention papers consisting of patents and descriptions of the work of John McMullen and Joseph B. McMullen; bills and receipts; lists of library books and Catholic publications purchased; manuscripts of William Hand Browne, John Bannister Tabb, Mary McMullen, and Dysart McMullen; and miscellaneous reports, certificates, and invitations from the many schools the McMullens attended.
Volumes consist of various business books of John McMullen and John Francis McMullen; subscription for the Catholic Church of Sinking Valley, 1830s; volumes of Joseph B. McMullen concerning his inventions; notebooks of writings and clippings of Mary McMullen and Dyeart McMullen; album of snapshots of their home, "Woodley," near Ellicott City, Maryland; and notebooks of Nicketti McMullen containing copies of old letters and data. There are also photographs of various members of the McMullen family and of homes at Wytheville, Thorn Springs, and Ellicott City.
The title of this project, Le pido a Dios que no me olviden, translates to "I ask God that you not forget me." It is taken from a letter written to the artist's mother the day she emigrated from Guatemala to the United States in 1982. These words inspired Veronica Melendez to start documenting through photography the Central American community in the Washington, D.C. metro area, particularly in Maryland and Virginia.
The twenty 17x22-inch color inkjet prints, all horizontally oriented, document people, cultural events, religious scenes, and symbols that recall faraway countries of origin as well as contemporary realities in these Latin American communities. The artist's statement is included. This work won the 2018 ADA Collection Award for Documentarians of the American South.
Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
Chiefly consists of correspondence and genealogy pertaining to the playwright Meredith including the following families: Bliss, Billings, Dow, Grant, Meredith, Miner, Palmer, and Sanford. Correspondence includes letters from A.G. Bliss, Fannie Grant Bliss, Kate Grant Bliss, Julia Grant, and others. Also includes printed material, writings and speeches, and clippings. Contains Meredith's diary (1868, October-1881, August) which mentions the Sirosis Club, a progressive club for women which held lectures on scientific topics during the late 1870s and early 1880s. The diary also includes information about Meredith's play, Mistress Anne: A Drama of the Seventeenth Century, (ca. 1873) is included. Meredith also wrote magazine articles under the pseudonym of Papillon.
The Frank Baker Collection of Methodist Circuit Plans, 1777-1984 and undated, consists predominantly of circuit plans from the Methodist Church (Great Britain) and the earlier churches that merged to form it in 1907 and 1932: the Wesleyan Methodist Church, the Primitive Methodist Church, the United Methodist Free Churches, and the United Methodist Church (Great Britain). These plans document the history, growth, and organization of the itinerancy, established by John Wesley in the early years of the church when Methodism began to spread into the rural areas of England. The circuit plans feature detailed schedules of where the itinerant preachers, known as circuit riders, were to appear and preach each week.
Items in the 19th Century and Overseas Circuits Series were donated in the 1970s and were organized at the item level and encapsulated in the early 1980s. Items were numbered in the order in which they were encapsulated, which bears no relationship to alphabetical order or circuit organization. They are currently boxed in numerical order in three boxes with the following number ranges: Box 1: items 1-240; Box 2, items 241-390; Box 3: items 391-527. Items in the 20th Century Series, numbering around 800 to 1000 items, were donated in the late 1980s and are organized to the folder level.
Article by Frank Baker, The Circuit Plan, published in Library Notes, no. 49, 1979, Duke University Library.
Photocopies purchased from the collection of John Ellis, Wesley Society, London. Housed in a separate envelope inside folder L3.
Handwritten plan. Removed from Jabez Palmer scrapbook--see Frank Baker Collection of Wesleyana and British Methodism, Volumes Series, Albums and Scrapbooks.
Donated at a later date. Approximately 1500 circuit plans, mainly covering the years from 1944-1959, but with scattered plans from the 1890s and 1900s. Plans are grouped alphabetically by circuit name (or city, if circuit unclear), but are not in order within each letter.
Collection consists of thousands of cigarette, tobacco, tea, and foodstuffs trading cards, arranged by topic or set; hundreds of silks, blankets, and pins also distributed as collectibles through packages of tobacco; and about fifty original packages and tins of tobacco products, dating from the late nineteenth to late twentieth century. Mitchell created and accumulated substantial documentation of the items in this collection; that description has been included when available.
The largest series is the Trading Cards, which largely date from the twentieth century and include both American and international sets. This series also contains a sampling of nineteenth century cards from companies such as Allen and Ginter; W. Duke, Sons and Co.; Kinney Bros.; the American Tobacco Co.; Gail and Ax; P. Lorillard Co.; and others. There is typically one card from a series and they have not been sorted or further described.
The rest of the Trading Card series is arranged by card set, including sets from tobacco companies (including Will's Cigarettes, Ardath, Barratt and Co.; Gallaher Ltd.; Sarony and Co.; John Player and Sons; Turkish Tropies; Hassan; Mills Filtertips; Godfrey Phillips; Stroller's Cigarettes; Carreras; and others), tobacco monopolies (like the Imperial Tobacco Co. (of Great Britain and Ireland) Ltd.; American Tobacco Co.; and others), and other trading card sets from other brands and products (such as Brooke Bond Tea; Hoadley's Chocolates; Stamina Clothing; Shell Corp.; Nabisco; Sanitarium Foods; and Arm and Hammer). These came pre-sorted by Mitchell into various topical categories, which have been retained.
The second series encompasses the other formats of tobacco collectibles acquired by Mitchell, and include silks, blankets/flannels, and pins. These are arranged according to their S and B numbers, as initially cataloged by Jefferson Burdick.
The third series contains original Tobacco Tins and Packages, with assorted tobacco products including cigarettes, cigars, plug tobacco, and other related products from various brands and companies. These date from both the nineteenth and twentieth century.
The Trading Cards series contains both cigarette and non-cigarette collectible cards acquired and assembled by Terence Mitchell. The earliest cards are from the late nineteenth century; this portion of the series includes assorted miscellaneous cards from various sets and sources. They have not been itemized and are foldered together in the Nineteenth Century Cards subseries. That subseries also contains some examples of cigarette company coupons and prize tickets. The bulk of the series dates from the twentieth century, and includes Mitchell's collectible cards from both the tobacco industry and other products such as tea, chocolate, and oil. Mitchell pursued the entire set when available, and then donated them to Rubenstein pre-sorted into various categories he established. There are no cards from Topic 11: Circus and no cards from Topic 29: Police, so these numbers have been skipped in the ensuing description.
Assorted cards from tobacco companies such as Allen and Ginter; W. Duke, Sons and Co.; Kinney; American Tobacco Co.; G.W. Gail and Ax; P. Lorillard Co.; Goodwin and Co.; and others. Usually 1 example of a card from a set. Wide range of topics and artwork represented, including some real photographs.
Brand/Cigarette: Brooke Bond Tea
Company: Brooke Bond
Location: London
Illustrated and described by C.F. Tunnicliffe, R.A.
Brand/Cigarette: Ardath Cigarette Production
Company: Ardath Tobacco Co. Ltd.
Location: London
Brand/Cigarette: Hassan
Location: New York
Factory Number 649, 1st District NY
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
2 sets of 60 cards. Each card's animal can pop up.
Brand/Cigarette: Monkey Brand
Company: Monkey Brand
Brand/Cigarette: Peter Pan/Standard
Company: Snider and Abrahams
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Imperial Tobacco Co. (of Great Britain and Ireland) Limited
Brand/Cigarette: Ewbanks Eagle Works
Brand/Cigarette: Stamina Clothes
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Location: Bristol and London
Each card's animal can pop up.
Brand/Cigarette: Brooke Bond Tea
Company: Brooke Bond
Location: London
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Stereoscopic photographs of animals.
Brand/Cigarette: Brooke Bond Tea
Company: Brooke Bond
Location: London
Brand/Cigarette: De Reszke Cigarettes
Company: Godfrey Phillips Ltd.
Brand/Cigarette: De Reszke Cigarettes
Company: J. Millhoff and Co. Ltd.
Location: London
From assorted runs in this series.
Brand/Cigarette: Brooke Bond Tea
Company: Brooke Bond
Location: London
Created in partnership with the World Wildlife Fund.
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: Brooke Bond Tea
Company: Brooke Bond
Location: London
Brand/Cigarette: Weet-Bix
Company: Sanitarium Foods
Brand/Cigarette: Brooke Bond Tea
Company: Brooke Bond
Location: Surrey
Brand/Cigarette: Cadet Sweets
Location: England
Brand/Cigarette: Capstan/Vice Regal
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
1 set of 50 plus 17 miscellaneous duplicates.
Brand/Cigarette: Barratt and Co. Ltd.
Location: London
Brand/Cigarette: Gallaher Ltd.
Location: London and Belfast
Brand/Cigarette: La Marquise Cigarettes
Location: New York
Factory Number 2153, 3rd District NY
Brand/Cigarette: De Reszke Cigarettes
Company: J. Millhoff and Co. Ltd.
Location: London
Brand/Cigarette: Sensation Plug Cut Tobacco
Company: P. Lorillard Co.
Location: New Jersey
Factory Number 10, 5th District NJ
Brand/Cigarette: Nicholas Sarony and Co.
Company: Nicholas Sarony and Co.
Location: London
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Location: Bristol and London
Brand/Cigarette: Brooke Bond Tea
Company: Brooke Bond
Location: London
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: Godfrey Phillips Ltd.
Brand/Cigarette: unknown
Silk-covered cards.
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Location: Australia
Brand/Cigarette: Hassan
Brand/Cigarette: unknown
Company: Imperial Tobacco Co. of Canada
Location: Canada
Brand/Cigarette: Societe Job Cigarettes
Location: London
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Location: Bristol and London
Brand/Cigarette: Helmar
Factory Number 7, 3rd District NY
Brand/Cigarette: Arm and Hammer Soda
Company: Church and Co.
Location: New York
Brand/Cigarette: Mecca/Cycle/Piedmont/Sweet Caporal Cigarettes
Company: American Tobacco Co.
Factory Number 649, 1st District NY; Factory Number 30, 24th District NY; Factory Number 25, 29th District VA; Factory Number 42, 4th District NC
From various runs of the Bird Series.
Brand/Cigarette: Hoadley's Chewing Sweet
Company: Hoadley's
Brand/Cigarette: Brooke Bond Tea
Company: Brooke Bond
Illustrated and described by C.F. Tunnicliffe, R.A.
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Location: Bristol and London
Brand/Cigarette: John Player and Sons
Company: Imperial Tobacco Co. (of Great Britain and Ireland) Limited
Brand/Cigarette: Goodwill Soap
Location: Massachusetts
Printed by Geo. H. Walker and Co., Boston. Copyrighted 1888 and 1902 by Geo. E. Marsh and Co.
Brand/Cigarette: unknown
Company: Imperial Tobacco Co. of Canada
Location: Canada
Brand/Cigarette: Dwight's Soda
Company: Church and Dwight Company
Location: New York
Brand/Cigarette: Dwight's Soda
Company: Church and Dwight Company
Location: New York
From first, third, and fifth runs of Useful Birds Series.
Brand/Cigarette: Brooke Bond Tea
Company: Brooke Bond
Location: London
Brand/Cigarette: Cadet Sweets
Rin Tin Tin images trademarked from Screen Gems Inc.
Brand/Cigarette: Turkish Tropies
Factory Number 7, 3rd District NY
Includes multiple runs of Fable Series.
Brand/Cigarette: Herbert Tareyton Cigarettes
Illustrated by Carl Anderson. Copyright held by King Features Syndicate, Inc., 1936.
Brand/Cigarette: Hoadley's Chocolates
Company: Hoadley's
Location: Melbourne
Copyright held by Paramount Pictures Inc. 1939.
Brand/Cigarette: Typhoo Tea
Company: Typhoo Tea Ltd.
Location: Birmingham
Cards are in uncut sheets.
Brand/Cigarette: unknown
Brand/Cigarette: Summit Cigarettes
Company: International Tobacco (Overseas) Ltd.
Includes both Series A and B, as well as some duplicates of some cards. Cards are embossed with a metallic image adhered to cardstock backing. Description is on each card's accompanying sleeve.
Brand/Cigarette: Helmar
Factory Number 30, 2nd District NY
Brand/Cigarette: Mills Filtertips
Brand/Cigarette: Three Castles
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Location: Bristol and London
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Location: Bristol and London
Brand/Cigarette: Piedmont Cigarettes
Company: Liggett and Myers Tobacco Co.
Factory Number 25, 2nd District VA
Real photographs.
Brand/Cigarette: Between the Acts Little Cigars
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Imperial Tobacco Co. (of Great Britain and Ireland) Limited
Brand/Cigarette: Shell Corp.
Location: Australia
Brand/Cigarette: Sweet eu liams Teas
Company: Sweetenhams, Chesterton, and Branches
Brand/Cigarette: Turkey Red Turkish Cigarettes
Factory Number 7, 3rd District NY
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Location: Bristol and London
Brand/Cigarette: Turkey Red Turkish Cigarettes
Factory Number 7, 3rd District NY
Brand/Cigarette: unknown
Company: Sanitarium Foods
Brand/Cigarette: Weet-Bix
Company: Sanitarium Foods
Brand/Cigarette: Mills Filtertips
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Location: Bristol and London
Real photographs, with acknowledgements to The Autocar.
Brand/Cigarette: unknown
"The Thrills and Spills of Speed Kings."
Brand/Cigarette: State Express/Ardath Cigarettes
Company: Ardath Tobacco Co. Ltd.
Includes cars, trains, and planes.
Brand/Cigarette: Golden Fleece
Location: Australia
Brand/Cigarette: Mills Filtertips
Brand/Cigarette: Sweet Caporal/Derby/Sovereign
Factory Number 593, District MD; Factory Number 649, 1st District NY
Brand/Cigarette: Capstan/Vice Regal
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: John Player and Sons
Company: Imperial Tobacco Co. (of Great Britain and Ireland) Limited
Brand/Cigarette: Ardath Cigarettes/State Express
Company: Ardath Tobacco Co. Ltd.
Brand/Cigarette: Capstan/Vice Regal
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: Capstan/Vice Regal
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: Ardath Cork/State Express Cigarettes
Company: Ardath Tobacco Co. Ltd.
Brand/Cigarette: Phila Cara Co.
Brand/Cigarette: Peter Pan
Company: Snider and Abrahams
Brand/Cigarette: Three Castles/Vice Regal Cigarettes
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: Oxford/Duke of York Cigarettes
Company: Khedieval Company
Location: New York City
Factory Number 348, 2nd District NY
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Location: Bristol and London
Includes poems on the reverse of the cards.
Brand/Cigarette: Stamina Clothes
Location: Australia
Brand/Cigarette: Brooke Bond Tea
Company: Brooke Bond
Illustrated by Angus McBride. Described by Virginia Shankland.
Brand/Cigarette: Godfrey Phillips Ltd.
Includes trivia game on reverse of the cards.
Brand/Cigarette: Stamina Clothes
Assorted sets.
Brand/Cigarette: Australian Licorice
Company: Australian Licorice Pty. Ltd.
Location: Victoria, Australia
Brand/Cigarette: Guinea Gold Cigarettes
Company: Ogden's Ltd.
Location: Sydney
Real photographs. From various runs of "General Interest" card sets.
Brand/Cigarette: Domino Filter
Location: France
Brand/Cigarette: unknown
Brand/Cigarette: Stroller's Cigarettes
Company: Tobacco Products Corp.
Factory Number 81, District of VA
Brand/Cigarette: American Caramel Co.
Location: Lancaster and York, PA
Brand/Cigarette: Scissors Cigarettes
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Location: Bristol and London
Brown backgrounds.
Brand/Cigarette: Scissors Cigarettes
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Location: Bristol and London
Mauve backgrounds.
Brand/Cigarette: State Express
Company: Ardath Tobacco Co. Ltd.
Includes 2 series of the run, with small and medium cards.
Brand/Cigarette: Godfrey Phillips Ltd.
Brand/Cigarette: Gallaher Ltd.
Location: Belfast and London
Brand/Cigarette: Pall Mall Virginia Cigarettes
Company: Rothman's
Location: London
Real photographs.
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Imperial Tobacco Co. (of Great Britain and Ireland) Limited
Brand/Cigarette: Army Club Cigarettes
Company: Cavanders Ltd.
Brand/Cigarette: Nicholas Sarony and Co.
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Includes 2 series of the run, with small and medium cards.
Brand/Cigarette: Godfrey Phillips Ltd.
Brand/Cigarette: Godfrey Phillips Ltd.
Brand/Cigarette: Carreras Ltd
Company: Arcadia Works
Location: London
Described by Florence Desmond.
Brand/Cigarette: Godfrey Phillips Ltd.
Brand/Cigarette: John Player and Sons
Company: Imperial Tobacco Co. (of Great Britain and Ireland) Limited
Brand/Cigarette: Tatley's Virginia Cigarettes
Company: Walker Tobacco
Location: England
Brand/Cigarette: Giant Licorice Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: Milo Cigarettes
Company: Sniders and Abrahams Ltd.
Brand/Cigarette: Stroller's Cigarettes
Company: Tobacco Products Corp.
Factory Number 81, District of VA
Photographs by Mack Sennett.
Brand/Cigarette: Gallaher Ltd.
Brand/Cigarette: Ringer's Cigarettes
Company: Imperial Tobacco Co. (of Great Britain and Ireland) Limited
Brand/Cigarette: Varsity Cigarettes
Company: Lambert and Butler
Location: England
Real photographs.
Brand/Cigarette: State Express
Company: Ardath Tobacco Co. Ltd.
Brand/Cigarette: Godfrey Phillips Ltd.
Brand/Cigarette: Godfrey Phillips Ltd.
Brand/Cigarette: Godfrey Phillips Ltd.
Brand/Cigarette: Godfrey Phillips Ltd./De Reszke Cigarettes
Company: Godfrey Phillips (Aust.) Ltd.
Location: Melbourne
Brand/Cigarette: Park Drive Cigarettes
Company: Gallaher Ltd.
Location: London and Belfast
Brand/Cigarette: Brooke Bond Tea
Company: Brooke Bond
Series 2.
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Imperial Tobacco Co. (of Great Britain and Ireland) Limited
Brand/Cigarette: Zira Cigarettes
Company: P. Lorillard Co.
Factory Number 21, 5th District NJ
Brand/Cigarette: Capstan/Vice Regal
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: unknown
Brand/Cigarette: Sweet Caporal/Recruit
Brand/Cigarette: John Player and Sons
Company: Imperial Tobacco Co. (of Great Britain and Ireland) Limited
Brand/Cigarette: Murad
Factory Number 7, Third District NY
Murad Post Card Series.
Brand/Cigarette: Hoffman House Magnums
Company: Hilson Co.
Location: New York
Copyright 1900 by The Hilson Co. Includes music and lyrics on the reverse.
Brand/Cigarette: Fatima Turkish Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: unknown
Brand/Cigarette: Godfrey Phillips Ltd.
2nd, 5th, and 6th series.
Brand/Cigarette: Major Drapkin and Co.
Company: United Kingdom Tobacco Co. (1929) Ltd.
Location: London
Brand/Cigarette: unknown
Brand/Cigarette: Carreras Ltd
Location: London
Brand/Cigarette: Brooke Bond Tea
Company: Brooke Bond
Company: Sanitarium Foods
Company: Lamberts of Norwich (tea)
Brand/Cigarette: Hoadley's Chocolates
Company: Hoadley's
Location: Australia
Brand/Cigarette: Carreras Ltd
Company: Arcadia Works
Location: London
Brand/Cigarette: Timaru Milling Coy Ltd.
Brand/Cigarette: Hassan
Factory Number 30, 2nd District NY
Brand/Cigarette: Atlantic Gas Stations
Brand/Cigarette: Vita-Brits
Company: Nabisco Pty. Ltd.
Album is empty.
Brand/Cigarette: Capstan/Vice Regal
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: CBT
Company: Kane Products
Location: London
Brand/Cigarette: Hassan
Factory Number 649, 1st District NY
Brand/Cigarette: Stamina Clothes
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: Barratt and Co. Ltd.
Location: London
Brand/Cigarette: Hassan
Factory Number 30, 2nd District NY; Factory Number 649, 1st District NY
Brand/Cigarette: B. Muratti Sons and Co.
Location: London
Real photographs.
Brand/Cigarette: Capstan/Vice Regal
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: John Player and Sons
Company: Imperial Tobacco Co. (of Great Britain and Ireland) Limited
Brand/Cigarette: Turf Cigarettes
Company: Alexander Boguslavsky Ltd.
Location: London
Brand/Cigarette: Mogul Egyptian Cigarettes
Factory Number 7, 3rd District NY
Brand/Cigarette: Regent Oil
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Imperial Tobacco Co. (of Great Britain and Ireland) Limited
From various series.
Brand/Cigarette: Turkish Tropies
Company: S. Anargyros
Factory Number 7, 3rd District NY
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Imperial Tobacco Co. (of Great Britain and Ireland) Limited
Brand/Cigarette: Hoadley's Chocolates
Company: Hoadley's
Brand/Cigarette: Pall Mall Virginia Cigarettes
Company: Rothman's
Location: London
Comics and jokes from Punch Magazine.
Brand/Cigarette: Mogul Cigarettes
Company: S. Anargyros
Factory Number 7, 3rd District NY
Brand/Cigarette: State Express/Ardath Cigarettes
Company: Ardath Tobacco Co. Ltd.
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
8 are black-and-white printed photographs, from Will's Cigarettes. 1 has a red colored background with no identifying brand and could be from another unidentified series.
Brand/Cigarette: Peter Pan
Company: Snider and Abrahams
Company: Godfrey Phillips Ltd.
Second series.
Brand/Cigarette: Shell Corp.
Location: Australia
Brand/Cigarette: Timaru Milling Coy Ltd.
Brand/Cigarette: Timaru Milling Coy Ltd.
Includes a range of mid-century celebrities, leaders, and inventions.
Brand/Cigarette: Vita-Brits
Location: Australia
Copyright by King Features Syndicate.
Brand/Cigarette: Lucky Dip Sweet Cigarettes
Company: Edwards and Sons
Location: London
Brand/Cigarette: Plaistowe's Travel Toffee
Brand/Cigarette: Aeroplane Jelly Crystals
Color photographs of Apollo space program.
Brand/Cigarette: John Player and Sons
Company: Imperial Tobacco Co. (of Great Britain and Ireland) Limited
Brand/Cigarette: Fez Cork Tip Cigarettes
Factory Number 649, 1st District NY
Brand/Cigarette: Lenox Mouthpiece Cigarettes
Factory Number 30, 2nd District VA
Brand/Cigarette: Tolstoi
Factory Number 30, 2nd District NY
Miscellaneous cards from 2 series: Assorted and Subjects.
Brand/Cigarette: Recruit Little Cigars
Factory Number 240, 1st District PA
Each card's soldier can pop up.
Brand/Cigarette: Craven Black Cat
Company: Carreras Ltd.
Brand/Cigarette: John Player and Sons
Company: Imperial Tobacco Co. (of Great Britain and Ireland) Limited
Brand/Cigarette: Allen's Steam Rollers peppermints
Company: Allen's
Brand/Cigarette: Capstan/Vice Regal
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: Capstan/Vice Regal
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: Golden Fleece
Brand/Cigarette: John Player and Sons
Company: Imperial Tobacco Co. (of Great Britain and Ireland) Limited
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: Genong Bros. Ltd.
Location: New Bruswick, Canada
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Each card's child can pop up.
Brand/Cigarette: Chocolat Tobler
Company: Tobler
Miscellaneous cards from various series.
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
No identifying brands on the card. Identification provided by Mitchell.
Brand/Cigarette: Barratt and Co. Ltd.
Brand/Cigarette: Anstie's Gold Flake Cigarettes
Company: E. and W. Anstie Ltd. Devizes
Real photographs.
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: John Player and Sons
Company: Imperial Tobacco Co. (of Great Britain and Ireland) Limited
Location: Nottingham
Brand/Cigarette: Havelock Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: Capstan/Vice Regal/Pennant
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: Sweet Caporal/Recruit/Jack Rose/others
Company: Kinney Bros. Tobacco
Factory Number 593, District MD; Factory Number 606, District MD; Factory Number 229, 6th District VA
Brand/Cigarette: Aeroplane Jelly Crystals
Company: Queensland Pineapple
Location: Australia
Brand/Cigarette: Milo Cigarettes/Oxford Cigarettes
Company: Khedieval Company
Brand/Cigarette: John Player and Sons
Company: Imperial Tobacco Co. (of Great Britain and Ireland) Limited
Brand/Cigarette: Havelock Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: Lambert and Butler
Company: Imperial Tobacco Co. (of Great Britain and Ireland) Limited
Brand/Cigarette: Timaru Milling Coy Ltd.
Brand/Cigarette: Tip Top Bread
Brand/Cigarette: Easi-Oats
Company: Sanitarium Foods
Brand/Cigarette: Lyons Tea
Company: Lyons Tea and Co.
Location: England
Brand/Cigarette: Lowney Candy
Brand/Cigarette: Morning Foods
Company: Morning Foods Ltd.
Brand/Cigarette: Godfrey Phillips Ltd.
Brand/Cigarette: Godfrey Phillips Ltd.
Brand/Cigarette: John Player and Sons
Company: Imperial Tobacco Co. (of Great Britain and Ireland) Limited
Brand/Cigarette: Lambert and Butler
Real photographs.
Brand/Cigarette: John Player and Sons
Company: Imperial Tobacco Co. (of Great Britain and Ireland) Limited
Brand/Cigarette: Piedmont Cigarettes/Sweet Caporal/Sovereign
Company: Kinney Bros. Tobacco
Brand/Cigarette: Capstan Navy Cut Tobacco
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Includes cards from 2 series.
Brand/Cigarette: Mills Filtertips
Brand/Cigarette: Weet-Bix
Company: Sanitarium Foods
Brand/Cigarette: Vita-Brits
Location: Australia
Brand/Cigarette: John Player and Sons
Brand/Cigarette: John Player and Sons
Company: Imperial Tobacco Co. (of Great Britain and Ireland) Limited
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Imperial Tobacco Co. (of Great Britain and Ireland) Limited
Brand/Cigarette: Fountain Brand Pure Food Products
Company: W.C. Douglass Ltd.
Location: Sydney
Brand/Cigarette: Mills Filtertips
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: John Player and Sons
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Real photographs.
Brand/Cigarette: Mills Filtertips
Brand/Cigarette: Murray Sons and Co. Ltd.
Location: Belfast and Northern Ireland
Brand/Cigarette: Capstan/Vice Regal
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: Capstan/Vice Regal
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: Magpie Cigarettes
Company: J. J. Schuh Tobacco
Location: Melbourne
Brand/Cigarette: Stamina Clothes
Brand/Cigarette: Vita-Brits
Company: Nabisco Pty. Ltd.
Location: Perth
Brand/Cigarette: Mecca/Hassan Cigarettes
Factory Number 649, 1st District NY
Brand/Cigarette: John Player and Sons
Company: Imperial Tobacco Co. (of Great Britain and Ireland) Limited
Brand/Cigarette: John Player and Sons
Company: Imperial Tobacco Co. (of Great Britain and Ireland) Limited
Brand/Cigarette: Magnet Library
Real photographs. Some cards have multiple images. 25 individual items.
Brand/Cigarette: Standard Cigarettes
Company: Sniders and Abrahams Ltd.
Brand/Cigarette: Allen's Steam Rollers peppermints
Company: Allen's
Brand/Cigarette: Allen's Steam Rollers peppermints
Company: Allen's
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: Nestle/Milo
Company: Hamlyn
Location: Hong Kong
Brand/Cigarette: Allen's Steam Rollers peppermints
Company: Allen's
Brand/Cigarette: Turf Cigarettes
Company: Alexander Boguslavsky Ltd.
Second series.
Brand/Cigarette: Sweetacres Champion Chewing Gum
Cricketers.
Brand/Cigarette: Hoadley's Chocolates
Company: Hoadley's
Brand/Cigarette: Lambert and Butler
Real photographs.
Brand/Cigarette: Three Castles Virginia Cigarettes
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Real photographs.
Brand/Cigarette: Senior Service Cigarettes
Company: Gallaher Ltd.
Real photographs.
Brand/Cigarette: Capstan/Vice Regal
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: De Reszke Cigarettes
Company: J. Millhoff and Co. Ltd.
Brand/Cigarette: Weet-Bix
Company: Sanitarium Foods
Color stereoscopic printed photographs.
Brand/Cigarette: Senior Service Cigarettes
Company: Gallaher Ltd.
Real photographs.
Brand/Cigarette: Nestles
Includes cards from various world album series, including Nestle's and Cadbury.
Company: Westminster Tobacco Co. Ltd.
Real photographs.
Brand/Cigarette: Weet-Bix
Company: Sanitarium Foods
Brand/Cigarette: Downland Tobacco
Company: E. and W. Anstie Ltd. Devizes
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Imperial Tobacco Co. (of Great Britain and Ireland) Limited
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: Allen's Steam Rollers peppermints etc
Company: Allen's
From first and second series.
Brand/Cigarette: Tiramu Milling Coy. Ltd.
Brand/Cigarette: Champion/Triumph Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: Champion/Triumph Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: Champion/Triumph Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: Triumph Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: Cereal Food
Location: New Zealand
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Printed photographs.
Brand/Cigarette: Teofani and Co.
Company: Associated Tobacco Manufacturers of Great Britain
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: Sweet Caporal Cigarettes
Company: Kinney Bros. Tobacco
Factory Number 30, 2nd District NY
Printed color photographs. Copyright by Underwood and Underwood, NY.
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
From first and second series.
Brand/Cigarette: Wills's
Company: Wills's Cigarettes
Printed black-and-white photographs.
Brand/Cigarette: Gallaher Ltd.
Company: Gallaher Ltd.
This series includes a range of formats also included in tobacco cartons or packaging: blankets (also called flannels); silks; leathers; and pins. Mitchell's book, American Tobacco Cards (published 1999) explains that "silks refers to any issue of cloth material distributed as inserts in tobacco packages or as premiums in exchange for coupons." Silks were intended for sewing together as pillow topis or other display items. Blankets were typically made of flannel but could also be woven fabric. Mitchell writes that most fabric inserts were issued between 1908 and 1915.
Have fringed edges.
Factory Number 2153, 3rd District NY
Factory Number 649, 1st District NY
Factory Number 649, 1st District NY
Brand/Cigarette: Nebo Cigarettes
Factory Number 7, 5th District NJ
Brand/Cigarette: Zira Cigarettes
Factory Number 7, 5th District NJ
Brand/Cigarette: Zira Cigarettes
Factory Number 7, 5th District NJ
Brand/Cigarette: Old Mill Cigarettes
Factory Number 25, 2nd District VA
Brand/Cigarette: Tokio Cigarettes
Factory Number 649, 1st District NY
Brand/Cigarette: Silko Cigarettes
Factory Number 649, 1st District NY
Brand/Cigarette: Egyptienne Luxury
Factory Number 7, 3rd District NY
Brand/Cigarette: Egyptienne Luxury
Factory Number 7, 3rd District NY
Brand/Cigarette: Egyptienne Straights Cigarettes
Factory Number 30, 2nd District NY
Brand/Cigarette: Nebo/Zira Cigarettes
Factory Number 7, 5th District NJ
Brand/Cigarette: Nebo/Zira Cigarettes
Factory Number 7, 5th District NJ
Brand/Cigarette: Nebo/Zira Cigarettes
Factory Number 7, 5th District NJ
Brand/Cigarette: Nebo/Zira Cigarettes
Factory Number 21, 5th District NY
Brand/Cigarette: Zira Cigarettes
Factory Number 7, 5th District NJ; Factory Number 25, 2nd District VA
Brand/Cigarette: Nebo Cigarettes
Factory Number 7, 5th District NJ
Brand/Cigarette: Nebo/Zira Cigarettes
Factory Number 7, 5th District NJ
Factory Number 649, 1st District NY
Factory Number 649, 1st District NY
Brand/Cigarette: Nebo/Zira Cigarettes
Factory Number 7, 5th District NJ
Brand/Cigarette: Nebo/Zira Cigarettes
Factory Number 7, 5th District
Brand/Cigarette: Zira Cigarettes
Factory Number 7, 5th District NJ
Brand/Cigarette: Tokio Cigarettes
Factory Number 649, 1st District NY
Brand/Cigarette: Nebo Cigarettes
Factory Number 7, 5th District NJ
Large silks.
Brand/Cigarette: Zira Cigarettes
Factory Number 7, 5th District
Small silks.
Brand/Cigarette: Old Mill Cigarettes
Factory Number 25, 2nd District VA
Brand/Cigarette: Zira Cigarettes
Factory Number 7, 5th District NJ
Brand/Cigarette: Mogul Cigarettes
Factory Number 7, 3rd District NY
Factory Number 54, 2nd District NY
Brand/Cigarette: Nebo Cigarettes
Factory Number 7, 5th District NJ
Brand/Cigarette: Old Mill Cigarettes
Factory Number 25, 2nd District VA
Factory Number 25, 2nd District VA
Brand/Cigarette: Zira Cigarettes
Factory Number 7, 5th District NJ
Brand/Cigarette: Zira Cigarettes
Factory Number 7, 5th District NJ
Brand/Cigarette: Zira Cigarettes
Brand/Cigarette: Sweet Caporal Cigarettes
Company: Kinney Bros. Tobacco
Pin technology patented by the Whitehead and Hoag Co., NJ.
Brand/Cigarette: Salome Ideal Cigarettes
Company: Rosedor Cigarette Co.
Location: New York
Factory Number 916, 1st District NY
Brand/Cigarette: Salome Egyptian Cigarettes
Company: Rosedor Cigarette Co.
Location: New York
Factory Number 1798, 3rd District NY
Includes gold-tipped cigarettes. Priced 25 cents.
Brand/Cigarette: Mogul Egyptian Cigarettes Cork Tip
Company: S. Anargyros (capital stock owned by P. Lorillard Co.)
Location: New York
Factory Number 7, 3rd District NY
Brand/Cigarette: Union Standard
Includes tobacco. "You get more and it's better."
Brand/Cigarette: Helmar Cigarettes
Company: S. Anargyros (capital stock owned by P. Lorillard Co.)
Factory Number 8, 5th District NJ
Brand/Cigarette: Sweet Caporal Cigarettes
Company: Kinney Bros. Tobacco (Manufactured by American Tobacco Company, Successor)
Location: New York
Factory Number 30, 2nd District NY
Brand/Cigarette: Old Honesty Plug
Factory Number 27, 5th District KY
Includes tobacco. Held in fabric pouch.
Brand/Cigarette: Between the Acts Little Cigars
Company: Thos. H. Hassan (P. Lorillard Co., successor)
Location: New York
Factory Number 17, District VA
Brand/Cigarette: Duke of Durham Cigarettes
Company: W. Duke, Sons and Co. (American Tobacco Co., successor)
Location: Durham
Factory Number 42, 4th District NC
Brand/Cigarette: Cr�me de Menthe chewing tobacco
Company: Scott Dillon Company
Location: Detroit
Sealed.
Brand/Cigarette: Egyptian Prettiest Cigarettes
Company: Schinasi Bros.
Location: New York
Factory Number 485, 2nd District NY
Brand/Cigarette: English Ovals Selected Mild Blend
Company: Philip Morris Inc.
Location: Richmond
Brand/Cigarette: The Richmond Straight Cut No. 1 Cigarettes
Company: Allen and Ginter (American Tobacco Co., successor)
Location: Richmond
Factory Number 25, 2nd District VA
Brand/Cigarette: Cross-Cut Cigarettes
Company: W. Duke, Sons and Co.
Location: Durham
Brand/Cigarette: Player's Country Life Cigarettes
Location: Virginia
Brand/Cigarette: Egyptienne Straights Cigarettes
Company: Butler-Butler (American Tobacco Co., successor)
Location: New York
Factory Number 649, 1st District NY
Brand/Cigarette: Sulunias: The Most Exquisite Egyptian Cigarette
Company: M.S. Sulunias Co.
Brand/Cigarette: Sheffield English Type No. 5 Cigarettes
Company: Fleming-Hall Tobacco Co.
Location: New York
Factory Number 1, 1st District NY
Sealed.
Brand/Cigarette: M. Melachrino and Co. Egyptian Cigarettes
Company: M. Melachrino and Co. (American Tobacco Co., successor)
Factory Number 30, District NC
Brand/Cigarette: Hassan
Factory Number 30, 2nd District NY
Brand/Cigarette: Player's Navy Cut Cigarettes "Medium"
Company: Philip Morris Inc.
Location: Richmond
Sealed. Includes Surgeon General's Warning.
Brand/Cigarette: Khedive Cigarettes Egyptiennes
Company: Monopol Tobacco Works
Location: New York
Brand/Cigarette: Crescent Marque 100 Filter Tip Cigarette Tubes
Company: Gluckman and Strauch, Inc.
Location: New York
Includes paper tubes.
Brand/Cigarette: Havana Blossom Plain Chewing Tobacco
Location: Ohio
Factory Number 6, 1st District Ohio
Sealed.
Brand/Cigarette: Matinee
Company: Havana American Co. (P. Lorillard Co., manufacturer)
Brand/Cigarette: Bush for President Campaign '88
Sealed. Includes Surgeon General's Warning.
Brand/Cigarette: Imperial Doublets: A Masterpiece of the Tobacco Arts
Company: Axton-Fisher Tobacco Co.
Location: Louisville
Factory Number 24, District KY
Includes cigarettes.
Brand/Cigarette: Old Virginia Cheroots
Company: P. Whitlock (P. Lorillard Co., successor)
5 for 10 cents.
Brand/Cigarette: Honest Tobacco Long Cut Smoking and Chewing Tobacco
Company: W. Duke, Sons and Co. (American Tobacco Co., successor)
Factory Number 60, 2nd District NY
Sealed.
Brand/Cigarette: Orphan Boy Smoking Tobacco, Fine Carolina
Company: John Weisert Tobacco Co.
Location: St. Louis
Factory Number 93, 1st Collection District MO
Sealed in a bag.
Brand/Cigarette: Obak Mouthpiece Cigarettes
Factory Number 171, 1st District CA
Brand/Cigarette: Cigar Clippings No. 1
Company: Aug. Beck and Co (Liggett and Myers Tobacco Co., successor)
Factory Number 1, 10th District OH
Sealed.
Brand/Cigarette: Lucky Strike Flat Fifties Cigarettes
Company: Lucky Strike (American Tobacco Co., successor)
Factory Number 30, District NC
Brand/Cigarette: Old Gold Cigarettes
Company: P. Lorillard Co.
Factory Number 8, 5th District NJ
Brand/Cigarette: Ivanhoe Chewing Tobacco
Company: H.W. Meyer's Ivanhoe Tobacco Works (American Tobacco Co., successor)
Location: Richmond
Sealed.
Brand/Cigarette: Oxford Blues Cigarettes
Company: Philip Morris Inc.
Factory Number 2032, 1st District PA
Brand/Cigarette: Murad
Company: S. Anargyros
Location: Japan
Includes 5 linked cigarettes (a game?)
Brand/Cigarette: Le Yebana Chorritos
Location: Manila
Sealed.
Brand/Cigarette: Don Alvaro
Location: Canary Islands (Spain)
Brand/Cigarette: La Honradez Cigarettes
Location: Havana
Sealed.
Brand/Cigarette: Mikasa Cigarettes
Company: A.G. Cousis and Co. (Japanese Tobacco Monopoly)
"Specially manufactured for The Japanese Tobacco Monopoly by A.G. Cousis and Co., Cairo and Malta."
Brand/Cigarette: President Virginian Tobacco
Company: Michelides Ltd.
Location: Perth
Brand/Cigarette: Fosforos (matches)
Company: Otero S.A.
Location: Havana
Includes matches.
Brand/Cigarette: Sweet Caporal
Location: Canada
Includes cigarettes.
Brand/Cigarette: Mills Filtertips
Company: Amalgamated Tobacco Corporation Ltd.
Location: Luton (England)
Included Coronation of their Majesties card series from Godfrey Philips Ltd. (These have been rehoused in the Trading Card series.)
Brand/Cigarette: Champion Ruby: Ready Rubbed Fine Cut Tobacco
Company: British-Australasian Tobacco Co. Ppty. Ltd.
Location: Sydney
Brand/Cigarette: Cigarros Exquisitos Ranchuelo
Location: Havana
Sealed.
Brand/Cigarette: Wild Woodbine Cigarettes
Company: Will's Cigarettes (Imperial Tobacco Co. (of Great Britain and Ireland Ltd.))
Location: Bristol and London
Brand/Cigarette: Super Virginia Cigarettes
Company: Bensen and Hedges
Location: London
"By appointment tobacconists to His Majesty the King."
Brand/Cigarette: Capstan Navy Cut Tobacco
Company: Will's Cigarettes (Imperial Tobacco Co. (of Great Britain and Ireland Ltd.))
Location: Bristol and London
The collection documents the work of noted French psychiatrist Marcel Montassut, and includes his correspondence, writings, research notes, and official civil and military documents. Of particular note are Monstassut’s letters with noted French psychiatrist Léon Chertok and the revised transcript of his book, "La dépression constitutionelle." The bulk of his research materials pertain to depression, melancholia, and epilepsy. The collection also includes documents related to his professional involvement as interim director at the Centre Neuro-Psychiatrique de Moiselles and as president of the Société Française de Médecine Psychosomatique. Acquired as part of the History of Medicine Collections.
Series includes materials related to Montassut's involvement in professional organizations, as well as his identity documents, correspondence, and an obituary. Some files with patient information are restricted until 2034; however, redacted photocopies of this material have been made available.
Correspondence, clippings, and files during Montassut's interim service as Médecin-Capitaine at the Centre Neuro-Psychiatrique de Moisselles.
Syndicat de la Presse Scientifique; Fiche individuelle d'etat civil et de nationalité française
General correspondence, including during Montassut's presidency of the Société Française de Médécine Psychosomatique, with the Préfecture de Police, and one letter with L. Chertok, a noted French psychiatrist.
From Montassut's work as Médecin-Chef at the Psychiatric Hospital in Villejuif. Includes a list of assistant attachés and interns, correspondence, files on the projet du service libre, and annual reports.
Includes carte d'identité de sanitaire, travel documents, and summaries of service.
Includes address given by Montassut at the conference.
From the time Montassut served as President. Includes letterhead, statutes, founder lists, and member lists.
From Montassut's first job in Postal Administration.
This series contains writings and lectures by Marcel Montassut, including a a revised transcript of his book "La dépression constitutionelle." Also includes two binders that housed Montassut's personal collection of his publications in chronological order. A title list is provided for each binder.
“Délire systématisé fantastique à base d’imagination et d’hallucinations,” 1922 “Délire d’imagination,” 1923 “Tics respiratoires et troubles mentaux au cours d’une encéphalite épidémique fruste,” 1923 “Désagrégation de la personnalité au cours d’un délire d’influence chez une dégénérée,” 1924 “Un cas de ‘syndrome des sosies’ chez une délirante hallucinée par interprétation des troubles psycho-sensoriels,” 1925 “Le traitement des états anxieux par le gardénal à doses réfractées,” 1925 “La constitution paranoïaque,” 1925 «Un délire de compensation,” 1924 “L’hyperpnée dans la diagnostic de l’épilepsie psychique,” 1925 “Note sur les modifications sanguines au cours de l’hyperpnée volontaire,” 1925 “La compensation idéo-affective,” 1925 “Épreuve de l’hyperpnée dans les psychoses,” 1925 “Psychose intermittente atypique simulant la démence précoce,” 1925 “Léon Bloy, Pélerin de l’absolu,” 1926 “Délimitation de la paranoïa légitime,” 1926 “Présidence de M. Henri Claude,” 1926 “Sur le rôle de l’alcalose dans l’épilepsie convulsive,” 1926 “Les troubles de la cénesthésie,” 1926 “Cénesthopathie et périodicité,” 1926
“Hépatisme et fatigue,” 1927 “Action des chocs sur des chiens porteurs de lésions rolandiques,” 1927 “Action préventive du choc anaphylactique sur les convulsions des chiens ‘épileptisés’ à la strychnine,” 1927 “Épilepsie et choc anaphylactique,” 1927 “Interprétation délirante d’actes automatiques comitiaux,” 1927 “Rythme paradoxal de la sensation de fatigue et de l’asthénie dans une forme particulière de neurasthénie,” 1928 “Rythmes quotidiens de fatigue au cours des asthénies,” 1928 “Amélioration d’une psychose hallucinatoire sous l’influence du traitement pyrétique et anti-infectieux,” 1929 “Neurasthénies syphilitiques,” 1929 “Neurasthénie et oxalémie,” 1930 “Etude Clinique et nosologique de la dépression psycho-musculaire chronique avec émotivité constitutionnelle,” 1930 “Emotivité, potassium et calcium plasmatiques,” 1930 “Sédation d’une exoitation maniaque par ingestion de Cacl,” 1930 “Epilepsie et accidents hypoglycémiques chez un Parkinsonien traité à l’insuline,” 1930 “Le magnésium chez les déprimés émotifs,” 1930 “La fatigue du neurasthénique,” 1930 [unpublished]
Montassut's undated writings and notes on the biology of melancholia.
Montassut's undated writings and notes on the history and criticisms of melancholia research.
Includes three publications under same title: 1931, 1935, 1965.
Revised original manuscript by Montassut.
Files include lectures given and attended by Montassut.
Montassut's undated writings and notes on the psychogenesis of melancholia.
Published with L. Chertok.
Includes Montassut's notes on various topics in the field of psychiatry, as well as his comments on scholarly publications by other well-known psychiatrists.
The collection documents the personal, political, and professional aspects of the life of an important feminist writer of the twentieth century. It is organized into the following series: Correspondence, Writings, Speeches and Interviews, Subject Files, Personal Files, Teaching Materials, Audio-Visual Materials, Photographic and Visual Materials, and Oversize Material. The largest group of materials consists of documentation on all of Morgan's significant written works: Demon Lover; Depth Perception; Dry Your Smile; Going Too Far; A Hot January; Lady of the Beasts; Saturday's Child; her well-known feminist anthologies, Sisterhood is Powerful and Sisterhood is Global; and other materials on her poems, articles, and other writings. In addition, Morgan's papers hold many items of correspondence with a wide range of individuals, including prominent activists and feminists as well as family members and close friends. There is also a significant amount of correspondence and other material that documents Morgan's role as founder of the Sisterhood is Global Institute, and records related to her role as editor and writer for Ms. magazine.
Seen in a broader context, the collection provides ample documentation for the study of modern feminism. Morgan's subject files (the second largest in the series) are rich in materials related to the feminist movement in the United States and around the world; and materials concerning sexual health, witchcraft, lesbian feminism, and the social, economic, and political position of women in the world (especially in the Middle East, Russia, and South Africa). There are materials on individual figures such as Bella Abzug, Jane Alpert (imprisoned revolutionary), Patty Hearst, Gloria Steinem, and Marilyn Waring. Other series hold additional materials related to Morgan's career as a writer; several of her speeches and interviews; materials from Morgan's courses she gave on feminism; and photographs and audio-visual materials.
The Correspondence Series spans much of Morgan's adult life. It is divided into two subseries: Correspondence by Name and Correspondence by Decade. The Correspondence by Name Subseries chiefly consists of Morgan's correspondence with family members, friends, fellow feminist activists and contemporary authors and critics. The bulk of the items in the Correspondence by Decade Subseries dates from the 1990s and relates to the production of Ms. magazine. The Correspondence Series is restricted: patrons must sign an Acknowledgment of Legal Rights and Responsibilities form before using the materials.
The Writings Series documents Morgan's career as a poet, novelist, essayist and journalist. Of Morgan's eighteen books, ten are represented in individual subseries. Particularly noteworthy is the material related to Sisterhood is Global, which provides an inside view into the production of the anthology. The series also contains some of Morgan's earliest unpublished writings as well as files containing her comments on other writers' work, and single issues of periodicals in which she published her poetry. The Writings Series is also restricted: patrons must sign an Acknowledgment of Legal Responsibilities and Privacy Rights form before using the materials.
The Speeches and Interviews Series primarily contains peripheral documentation such as contracts, correspondence, and schedules. However, there are drafts of a number of her speeches and interviews.
Materials which Morgan collected over the years concerning American and international feminism are located in the Subject Files Series. The materials cover a number of topics, including women's economic, political, and social status, and feminist action - especially in South Africa, the Soviet Union, and the Middle East; rape, abortion, terrorism, female genital mutilation, and pornography; and the first feminist demonstration against the Miss America Pageant. Significant figures represented in the subject files include Marilyn Waring, Patricia Hearst, and Gloria Steinem. Two subseries contain administrative information about Ms. magazine and the Sisterhood is Global Institute. The Subjects Series is restricted: patrons must sign an Acknowledgment of Legal Rights and Responsibilities form before using the materials.
The smaller Personal Files Series offers materials related to Robin Morgan's education, early critical writing, and her many trips overseas. The series also includes material that Morgan requested under the Freedom of Information Act from the FBI and CIA about her own activities.
The documents in the Teaching Materials Series are primarily related to Morgan's academic positions at New College (Sarasota, Fla.) and the University of Denver, and the courses she taught on feminism and writing. The files include both administrative documentation as well as actual course material, but there are also clippings related to feminist protests on campus.
The Audio-Visual Materials Series contains numerous interviews on cassette tapes that Morgan conducted in the Middle East, a recording of her reading of selected poems from A Hot January, and a videotape about the production of Saturday's Child. Permission is not granted to publish interviews conducted in the Middle East; the researcher is responsible for obtaining permission to publish. Original copies of audiovisual materials are not open to use; however, use copies are available to researchers.
The Photographic and Visual Materials Series provides a small visual supplement to the other documents in the collection and includes portrait photographs of Morgan taken by the press and by her close friends, as well as snapshots of social gatherings. This series also includes two painted portraits of Morgan. The series is restricted: patrons must sign an Acknowledgment of Legal Rights and Responsibilities form before using the materials.
Later additions (Accessions 2009-0069, 2010-0176, 2015-0060) have not been fully processed, but boxlists are available in the Detailed Description portion of this finding aid. Some portions are restricted or closed.
For collections related to the Robin Morgan Papers, see the Phyllis Chesler, Merle Hoffman, and Kate Millett Papers, all located in the Duke University David M. Rubenstein Rare Book & Manuscript Library. In addition to Robin Morgan's own papers, the Library also holds the records of the Sisterhood is Global Institute, founded by Morgan in 1984.
The series is divided into two subseries: Correspondence by Name and Correspondence by Decade, both of which contain letters to and from Robin Morgan. The Correspondence by Name Subseries is organized alphabetically by last name or place. Prominent correspondents include feminists such as Simone de Beauvoir, Sallie Bingham, Kate Millett, Adrienne Rich, and Gloria Steinem. There are also letters of a personal nature with Morgan's mother, aunts, and close friends, such as Vladimir Urban. Particularly voluminous is the correspondence from Isel Rivero (further documented in the Photographic and Visual Materials Series), with whom Robin Morgan maintained a close relationship during the 1980s, and from Jane Alpert. The latter provides interesting insights into a woman's life in the underground and in prison during the mid-1970s.
While there are several letters in the Correspondence by Decade Subseries that date from the 1950s and 1960s (including a letter from Nehru), the bulk of the correspondence comes from the 1990s. Material from this decade includes letters of both a personal and professional nature; one group of folders contains correspondence pertaining solely to the period during which Morgan was Ms. magazine's editor in chief. In this subseries, the correspondence is arranged in original order, by decade only.
Largest in the collection, the Writings Series contains drafts, notes, manuscripts, reviews, and correspondence (both with editors and readers), as well as other material such as contracts and copyright agreements related to Morgan's novels, anthologies, and poetry. Individual subseries, arranged alphabetically, contain material relating to almost all of Morgan's book-length published works. Within each subseries, documents are in the original order to reflect the publishing process. Materials in the Poems, Other Writings by Morgan, Writings by Others, and Grants subseries are all in chronological order.
The material related to the production of the Sisterhood is Global anthology is particularly extensive. It includes files on individual contributors, which contain ephemeral publications and correspondence providing insights into the lives of women in different parts of the world. Less extensive material on shorter published and unpublished works can be found in the Poems Subseries and Other Writings by Morgan Subseries. Particularly noteworthy in the latter are samples of Morgan's earliest writings, which reveal an acute sense of humour and sensitivity at an early age, and the many folders of Morgan's comments on other women's works. Finally, at the end of the Writings Series, there are a few manuscripts by other authors, including poetry and a dissertation about Morgan's work.
Approximately one third of the series consists of drafts of Morgan's speeches; interviews of Morgan by Dorothy Dinnerstein, Chai Lin and Helen Cooper; and material about her joint poetry tour with Kenneth Pitchford. The remaining two thirds of the material is documents related to Morgan's speeches and interviews (chiefly correspondence, schedules, and contracts). All material is in alphabetical order. Several announcements of Morgan's speeches are located in the Oversize Material at the end of the collection.
The Subject Files Series is organized into five subseries. Apart from the International Feminist Activism and Resources Subseries, which is organized by continents, all material within individual subseries is in alphabetical order. Formats include newspaper clippings, ephemeral publications, short articles, and official letters and documents.
The General Subseries includes documentation about a controversial plagiarism case involving Robin Morgan, as well as material documenting Morgan's service with Hands Across America. The International Feminist Activism and Resources Subseries documents feminist activism all over the world. The most substantial material comes from South Africa and the Middle East, where Morgan spent months in the Palestinian refugee camps. The Ms. Subseries contains minutes and memos from editorial meetings, information about distribution, and some correspondence with readers. A large portion of the subseries comes from the years when Morgan acted as editor-in chief (1989-1993) and re-launched the magazine as an international bimonthly free of advertising. There is also material concerning the 1980 issue of Ms. about Russian women and Soviet feminism. The Sisterhood Is Global Institute Subseries contains some annual reports and other institutional documents. Finally, the U.S. Feminist Activism and Resources Subseries consists of subject files that cover a number of topics, including witchcraft, demonstrations against the Miss America Pageant, women's clinics, and anti-pornography campaigns. There are also several documents about feminist conferences in the United States and some material concerning figures such as Gloria Steinem, Marilyn Waring, and Patricia Hearst. A complete set of issues of Rat magazine was removed from this subseries and is located in the Oversize Materials.
Consists primarily of papers related to Robin Morgan's formal education at Columbia University. Formats include class notes, essays, and rather brief notebooks from her trips to the Middle East, Austria and Egypt, further documented in the Photographic and Visual Materials Series and Subject Files Series. Other material includes FBI and CIA files, which Morgan requested through the Freedom of Information Act in the 1970s. Each of the three categories (Education at Columbia University, Trips, and Other Personal) is arranged in chronological order.
Includes material related to Robin Morgan's position as an adjunct professor at the Union Graduate School; as a visiting chair and guest professor of Women's Studies at New College (Sarasota, Fla.); and as a visiting professor at the University of Denver Graduate School of International Affairs. The bulk comes from the Denver position and includes contracts; course material related both to the courses that Morgan attended and to the courses she taught on feminism; student papers; and teaching-related correspondence. The material is arranged in alphabetical order.
Contains cassette tapes with interviews that Morgan conducted with women in the Middle East during two visits in 1985 and 1989. There is also a recording of Morgan's reading of poems selected from A Hot January as well as a videotape titled, Saturday's Child; A Memoir. The collection is arranged by media type.
This series includes 240 photographs and two painted portraits.
Consists of 240 photographs, 222 of which are color, and 18 black and white. Most of the images are snapshots from Morgan's trip to Egypt; the rest are pictures of Isel Rivero, and some taken by her. The photographs are arranged in their original order.
This subseries includes two large painted portraits of Robin Morgan. One is a formal studio pose, painted on wood and depicting Morgan as a young woman during the time that she was a television and radio personality. The other was painted on canvas by Pat Mainardi (author of Politics of Housework) after Morgan achieved fame as a radical feminist activist and poet.
Contains materials from the Writings Series, the Subject Files Series, and the Speeches and Interviews Series. Poetry broadsides include the poem White Night, dedicated to Morgan and signed by Adrienne Rich. The Subject Files Subseries contains a complete set of issues of the feminist magazine Rat. Arranged alphabetically.
Addition (2009-0069) (900 items; 1.5 lin. ft.; 1993-2006) includes Morgan's files on sexual trafficking (2000); a master copy and page proofs of The Burning Time (2005-2006); and email printouts of responses to Letters from Ground Zero, which went viral on the Internet following Sept. 11, 2001.
Accession (2010-0176) (18,450 items; 24.6 lin. ft.; dated 1947-2010) includes Morgan's travel files, correspondence, Ms. editorial files, and materials from her research and publications. General correspondence (dating 1996-2009) consists of email printouts and letters detailing Morgan's activities with various projects, conferences, and boards, including Equality Now and the February Sisters. It also includes her thoughts on the 2008 presidential election, including a re-written version of Goodbye to All That discussing the Hillary Clinton campaign.
The Ms. files (dating 2002-2010) include global dispatches, correspondence, and cover story interviews by Morgan of Madeleine Albright and Jane Fonda. This section also contains files from the Ms. search for editor-in-chief.
A large portion of the accession relates to Morgan's writings, poetry, and published books. These materials consist of drafts, correspondence with publishers, publicity and press, reader reactions, reviews of her work, and rights permissions. Works represented include Monster, which included the poem Arraignment;The Mysteries, a play; Upstairs in the Garden; Going Too Far; The Anatomy of Freedom; The Witch Tales; Sisterhood is Forever; and other poems and articles. The majority of the Sisterhood is Forever materials are contributor files, including women like Gloria Steinem, Eleanor Smeal, Eve Ensler, Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton, and many others.
Also represented are supporting materials, mainly clippings and other miscellaneous items, from Morgan's childhood, adolescence, and early adulthood that she used for writing her Memoirs. These clippings include coverage of her activities as a child star on the television show Mama, as well as her other performances, radio and television shows, and modelling engagements. Morgan's early activities in the women's liberation movement are also represented in these clippings, such as her protesting the Miss America competition in 1969 and coverage of her book, Sisterhood Is Powerful. The original clippings are extremely fragile and may require Technical Services intervention.
Other materials in the accession include various research and project files, many supporting Morgan's activities or writings. For example, there is a series of folders on clitoredectomy and female genital mutilation, culminating in a draft prepared by Morgan and Gloria Steinem of an article published in the 1970s. Materials from the Women's Media Center are closed due to restrictions. There is also a significant amount of audiovisual material, including film, VHS, reel-to-reel audio, and DVDs. These will require reformatting prior to use by researchers.
Includes Goodbye to All That (number 1).
Materials from Morgan's first book of poetry (1972). Includes draft, submissions, correspondence, the Feminist Art Journal and other feminist editions, reactions, and reviews. Contains discussion of the Ted Hughes/Sylvia Plath controversy.
Literary magazine published poems, contracts, discarded poems, production, reviews, and reactions.
Includes drafts, production materials, correspondence, etc.
Manuscripts, drafts, publication, reviews, and reactions.
Press coverage and other materials from Morgan's entertainment career (as a child in the 1950s), her activism during the Women's Liberation movement (1970s-present), and her writings and public events. Most of the newspaper clippings are extremely fragile and may require preservation photocopies to be made before use. Please handle with care.
Including Miss America coverage, Sisterhood is Powerful, and interviews with Morgan.
Includes drafts from piece on female circumcision by Gloria Steinem and Robin Morgan.
Consists of 10 VHS tapes, 9 audio cassette tapes, 16 reel-to-reels, 1 film reel, and 2 DVDs. Includes video clips from Morgan's child modeling and clips and reviews of her television shows, including Mama and other plays. Audio tapes include Their Own Country (a verse play), Church of the Ascension, Fifth Avenue, New York, 1961; Mike Wallace interview with Morgan; and her teenage trip abroad in the 1950s. Audio cassettes include tapes of Morgan's interview with Madeleine Albright and her leading the women's takeover of the Phil Donahue Show. Videotapes and DVDs include the Bella Abzug memorial service, with speakers Morgan, Gloria Steinem, Jane Fonda, Shirley Maclaine, Marlo Thomas, etc.; Morgan's interview on Charlie Rose; film of the first Miss America Pageant protest, 1968; and Morgan's participation on various panels.
A history of the Miss America pageant, produced for American Experience by Clio Inc. and Orchard Film Productions.
Accession (2015-0060)(4050 items; 5.4 lin. ft.; dated 1968-2014); includes additions to Morgan's personal and professional papers. These include Morgan's general correspondence and correspondence with Marilyn Waring, copies of Ms. Magazine, Morgan's writing and appearances, interviews, and records of the Women's Media Center.
Contains Women's Media Center materials, correspondence, and books.
Materials include Women's Media Center Live materials, writings by Morgan including articles and drafts of her books Dark Matter and Parallax; correspondence, lectures, and research and activist files.
The collection contains material collected by Ruth Webb Morgan from the church-related "Women's Conference" held at the Oxford Public Works Complex in Oxford, North Carolina in 1999, 2001, 2002, and 2004. Items include handouts, photographs, meeting agendas, and notebooks. The materials offer insights into the status and relationships of African American women in North Carolina, and their church-related affiliations and activities.
The cookbooks originally in this collection have been cataloged separately for the Rubenstein Library collections. They may be located by performing a title search for the following items: FAVORITE RECIPES, FAVORITE RECIPES FROM THE FARMERS' ALMANAC, COUNTRY COOKIN' RECIPES, THE SENSATIONAL NIGHTINGALES COOKBOOK, ROYAL QUEEN COOKWARE TREASURY OF COOKING.
Acquired as part of the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture.
Correspondence and personal and professional papers of Morriss and of his family (chiefly 1848-1947). The material refers to the Civil War, medical administration in the Confederate Army, enslaved people, professional and family matters, and politics. Includes printed matter (mainly 1850-1875) concerned with politics and social reform.
Collection consists of the case file for John Wesley Oliver, a former death row inmate who was represented by Robert P. Mosteller. Materials from Oliver's case (as well as his co-defendant, George Moore, Jr.) date as early as witness statements from 1978, and end with NC Court of Appeals judgments from 2002. The majority of the files are legal motions, trial transcripts, and court orders from Moore and Oliver's various court cases and appeals in 1979, 1982, 1993, and 2001. There is very little material that falls outside the official documentation of the case, and there is no personal material from Mosteller in this collection. Files have been arranged as best as possible in chronological order.
Acquired as part of the Human Rights Archive.
Family, personal, and business papers of three generations of the Munford and the Ellis families of Virginia, connected by the marriage of George Wythe Munford and Elizabeth Throwgood Ellis in 1838. The papers contain information on politics, literary efforts, social life and customs, economic conditions, and military questions principally in nineteenth century Virginia.
Letters and papers of the Munford family center around William Munford (1775-1825) of the first generation, George Wythe Munford (1803-1882) of the second generation, and the children of George Wythe Munford, notably Thomas Taylor Munford (1831-1918), Sallie Radford (Munford) Talbott (1841-1930), Lucy Munford and Fannie Ellis Munford.
The letters of William Munford (1775-1825) are concerned with some details relative to the management of his plantation in Mecklenburg County, Virginia, by an overseer, his legal practice in the early 1800s in southside Virginia, accounts of his election to the governor's council in 1805, and political questions confronting the council. The collection also contains letters concerning possible publication by Thomas Willis White of a novel written by Ursula Anna (Munford) Byrd, sister of William Munford. Letters of friends and relatives and members of the first generation of Munfords are also included.
Volumes are an account book, 1799-1873, and a miscellany, 1790-1814, containing poems of William Munford, a list of the books in his library, and a list of subscribers to the Munford and William W. Hening Reports of Cases argued and determined in the Supreme court of appeals of Virginia. Chief of the literary works are two poems, "The Richmond Cavalcade" (1798), and its sequel, "The Richmond Feast" (1799), in Hudibrastic verse aimed at the political maneuvers of the Federalists. Also included are original poems by John Blair, Thomas Bolling Robertson, Anna (Munford) Byrd, St. George Tucker, and Mrs. John Page of Rosewell concerning social matters; and other poems by Munford, some of which were later published in the Richmond Enquirer.
George Wythe Munford (1803-1882), named for the mentor of his father, was clerk of the Virginia House of Delegates, an office which he held until the end of the Civil War, when he attempted farming until forced by reverses to secure a clerkship in the U.S. Census Bureau. Correspondence concerns the Mexican War, including letters from Admiral William Radford aboard the U.S.S. Warren blockading the Mexican coast at Mazatlan; Virginia Military Institute, Lexington, Virginia, 1845; Virginia politics, including letters from Henry Alexander Wise while governor; the people and countryside around Lynchburg, Virginia, where he went for recuperation during the summer; his gubernatorial campaign in Virginia, 1863; the fall of Richmond, April, 1865, and his flight to western Virginia, including descriptions of his reactions and those of his relatives, and the uncertainty of the future; his application for a pardon and the response of President Andrew Johnson; detailed accounts in letters to his son, Thomas, of his struggles, work, and the labor system relating to his farming attempts in Gloucester County, Virginia, 1866-1873; his work in preparing a Virginia code of laws, 1873; the Readjuster Movement, which resulted in his removal from office as a clerk in the House of Delegates to which he had returned after farming his experiences as clerk in the census office in Washington, 1880-1882; the Southern Historical Society, of which he was secretary; and people and social life and customs in Virginia, Maryland, and Washington, D.C., including letters from his daughters while employed as governesses. Included also are notes, correspondence, and the original manuscript of his The Two Parsons (Richmond: 1884), published after his death, as well as correspondence about the two ministers, John Buchanan and John Blair. A poems and account book, 1821-1837, contains poetry by George Wythe Munford, including "The Gander Pull or James City Games," and sentimental poems, some written to his relatives; poetic letters; and a cashbook. Other volumes include an inventory of his household furniture purchased in 1834; and account books, 1835-1865.
A large portion of the collection relates to Thomas Taylor Munford (1831-1918), planter, brigadier general in the cavalry of the Confederate Army, and lecturer on Confederate military history. Correspondence pertains to the difficulties of farming, the Civil War, including the shortage of rations, typhoid and diphtheria on the plantation, charges brought against Munford by General Thomas Lafayette Rosser, and the fate of the Confederacy, with copies of letters and orders regarding the mobilization of the Confederate Army and cavalry, reorganization of the cavalry, Munford's promotion to brigadier general, and his command and surrender; postwar financial difficulties; his cattle selling venture; and the Lynchburg Iron, Steel, and Mining Company. The bulk of the material was written after 1875 and relates to Civil War campaigns and battles, especially to the Virginia cavalry and particularly to the battle of Five Forks; Virginia Military Institute; writings on the Civil War; the flag and seal of the state of Virginia; and Virginia history. Many of the letters are annotated, although not always accurately, by Munford's nephew, Charles Talbott III. Correspondence between Munford and many former Confederate and Union officers and soldiers pertains to efforts to collect Confederate cavalry records; the history of the 2nd Virginia Cavalry as well as references to other cavalry units including the 1st, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 7th, and 8th Virginia cavalries, C.S.A., and the 6th New York Cavalry, 4th, 6th, and 16th Pennsylvania cavalries, 1st Maine Cavalry, 1st Rhode Island Cavalry, 1st Massachusetts Cavalry, and 1st Maryland Cavalry, U.S.A.; jealousy between the Virginia and South Carolina cavalries; comparisons between the cavalries of the Army of the Potomac, U.S.A., and the Army of Northern Virginia, C.S.A., and other Confederate and Union cavalries; cavalry operations, tactics, and weapons; the writing and publication of Henry B. McClellan's The Life and Campaigns of Major General J. E. B. Stuart (Boston: 1885); court of inquiry review, 1879-1880, of the role of General Gouverneur Kemble Warren at the battle of Five Forks; accounts of various battles and campaigns of the Civil War, especially the battle of Five Forks, but also the battles of 1st Manassas, Gettysburg, Aldie (Virginia), Chancellorsville, Todd's Tavern (Virginia), and Appomattox; and the dispute between Munford and Rosser over the battle of Five Forks. Other correspondence concerns the history of the guns at V.M.I., including copies of letters from the Marquis de Lafayette, William Davies, Thomas Jefferson, and James Monroe, the trial of Aaron Burr, including copies of letters and documents; the early history of V.M.I.; Thomas Jonathan "Stonewall" Jackson at V.M.I.; Munford's terms as president of the Board of Visitors at V.M.I., 1884 and 1888; his views on discipline, insubordination, and students; dissension at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Blacksburg, Virginia, in 1885; the Southern Historical Society and its publications, the history of secession, including letters from Douglas Southall Freeman; campaign for a Confederate memorial to be erected in Lynchburg where Munford's regiment was organized and disbanded; the Confederate Veterans Association; the United Confederate Veterans; and race riots in Indiana, 1903.
Addresses and notes concerning Confederate cavalry fighting include a muster roll, 1863; lists of officers; a history of Munford's regiment with detailed accounts of troop movements and activities of Confederate officers, 1861-1863; maps; typed copy of a diary, 1861-1862, of a Confederate soldier describing camp life, hardships, skirmishing, picket duty, and fighting at the battles of 1st Manassas, Dranesville, and Leesburg, Virginia; material on the Maryland Campaign, 1862; typed copy of a diary, May-October, 1864, of Major James Dugue Ferguson, assistant adjutant general of Fitzhugh Lee's Cavalry Division, describing the itinerary and operations of his troops; copies of letters and articles on the Munford-Rosser feud; copy of "Spirit of the Army, Lynchburg, Va., Feb. 25, 1865," concerning the reaction of the 2nd Virginia Cavalry to the peace terms proposed by President Andrew Johnson; and a narrative of the battle of Waynesboro, Virginia, 1865, sent by Colonel Augustus Forsberg, 51st Virginia Infantry, C.S.A. Material on the Battle of Five Forks consists of notes on the battle by General Munford; his unpublished manuscript on the battle; bound volume containing related letters and clippings; a short narrative (22 pp.) on the battle; extracts from the report of General George E. Pickett to General Robert E. Lee; extracts from General Rosser's reminiscences on Five Forks; "Vindication of General Anderson from the Insinuations of General Fitzhugh Lee" by C. Irvine Walker, including Richard Anderson's report to Robert E. Lee, 1866, and part of Fitzhugh Lee's report to Robert E. Lee; narratives by Confederate soldiers on the last days of the 2nd Virginia Cavalry; extracts from the report of General George Crook, U.S.A., regarding the surrender at Appomattox, Virginia; copies of correspondence between Munford and Ranald Slidell McKenzie on Munford's surrender after Appomattox; and Munford's "The Last Days of Fitz Lee's Division of Cavalry Army of Northern Virginia." Other papers relate to the activities of Confederate and Union veterans, including material on the history of the flag and seal of Virginia, and addresses to various veterans organizations and reunions; V.M.I., including material on the return of the bronze statue of George Washington taken by General David Hunter, the history of the French guns, and Thomas Jonathan "Stonewall" Jackson, and lists of V.M.I. soldiers and officers in the C.S.A. Army; miscellaneous notes and addresses on the Constitution and the right of secession, the Society of the Cincinnati, and the Southern Historical Society; and miscellaneous poetry including "Mexican Campaign Song." Clippings generally pertain to the Civil War, including letters and accounts of the C.S.A. Army clipped from various newspapers; Confederate veterans organizations; Civil War statistics; Confederate generals and field officers of the Virginia cavalry; and the Munford-Rosser feud.
The collection contains many letters of the thirteen other children of George Wythe Munford. Correspondence of Charles Ellis Munford (1839-1862) concerns the U.S. Military Academy, war preparations and military drilling at the University of Virginia, and his recruiting duties. Other letters concern his death at Malvern Hill, Virginia, 1862. Also included are his law notebooks, 1859-1861. Personal and family letters of the daughters of George Wythe Munford contain information of the details of household economy and general conditions during the Civil War and Reconstruction. A scrapbook, 1861-1871, of Lizzie Ellis Munford contains Confederate verse and mementos, including flowers taken from the coffin of Thomas Jonathan "Stonewall" Jackson in 1863 and from the grave of John Ewell Brown Stuart in 1864, and clippings relating to the war. There are also a number of letters from two grandsons of George Wythe Munford, Allan Talbott and Ellis Talbott, written while touring Europe and while studying at the University of Geneva and at the University of Heidelberg, 1886-1889.
Papers of the Ellis family begin with those of Charles Ellis, Sr. (1772-1840), Richmond merchant and partner of John Allan, who was the foster father of Edgar Allan Poe, and of his brother, Powhatan Ellis (1790-1863), jurist, U.S. senator, and diplomat. Letters of Charles Ellis concern business affairs and personal matters, the latter consisting largely of admonitions to his son, James, while a student at the U.S. Military Academy, West Point, New York, and of letters written from the springs of western Virginia. Letters of Margaret (Nimmo) Ellis (1790-1877), wife of Charles Ellis, Sr., are numerous from 1840 to her death and, although generally concerned with family affairs, also contain accounts of war activities and social changes resulting from the Civil War. Correspondence of Powhatan Ellis concerns national politics; party affiliation of John Tyler; the nullification debate in the Senate; Andrew Jackson's stand against South Carolina on the nullification issue; the digging of the James River Canal; his duties as minister to Mexico; Franklin Pierce's policy towards Cuba; Mississippi politics; opposition to Stephen A. Douglas; secession; the Richmond Light Blues; the formation of the Confederacy in Mississippi; legal affairs of William Allan; and family and personal matters, including visits to Berkeley Springs, Virginia.
Correspondence of Thomas Harding Ellis (1814-1898), son of Charles and Margaret (Nimmo) Ellis, merchant and businessman, relate to his education at the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, 1831-1832; the Southern Literary Messenger; the Richmond Fayette Light Artillery; his interest in literary activities; his duties as private secretary to his uncle, Powhatan Ellis, in Mexico, 1836, and as first secretary of the legation, 1839-1841; people and events in Richmond, 1840-1860; the Civil War, including preparations in Richmond during the Peninsular Campaign; labor conditions and financial difficulties in the James River Valley after the war; his residence in Chicago, 1871-1883, with detailed accounts of the growth of the city and the great fire of 1871; the Republican National Convention of 1880; clerkships in the Departments of the Interior and the Treasury, 1887-1898; and genealogy of the Ellis family.
Letters and papers of other children of Charles and Margaret (Nimmo) Ellis are also included. Letters of James Ellis (1815-1839) in general were written from the U.S. Military Academy. One contains a reference at the time of the death of John Allan, Poe's foster father, stating that Allan had not "spent his time in a proper way" and making some reference to Allan's second wife, which has been thoroughly obliterated. Charles Ellis, Jr. (1817-189-), left many business and personal letters, the latter consisting largely of family letters and accounts of numerous visits to the springs in western Virginia, especially Warm Springs in Bath County, with minute descriptions of activities, guests, his ailments, and the young ladies whom he escorted during his long life and many sojourns at Warm Springs. Other correspondence concerns the education of James West Pegram at Clifton Academy, in Amelia County, Virginia, 1855-1856; John Brown's raid on Harpers Ferry, 1859; the railroad during the Confederacy, especially the Richmond and Petersburg Railroad during the siege of Petersburg; Ellis's efforts to remain president of the railroad after the war; and the collapse of the gallery in the courtroom of the capitol in Richmond. Correspondence of Powhatan Ellis, Jr. (1829-1906), son of Charles Ellis, Sr., major in the Confederate Army, and planter, pertains to his activities as a student at the University of Virginia, 1848-1850; as an agent to look after family lands in Kentucky; as an officer in the Confederate Army in the western theater, with particular references to the surrender of Fort Henry, the Vicksburg Campaign, and troop movements and military engagements in Mississippi and Alabama; and as a planter in Gloucester County following the Civil War.
The letters of Jane Shelton (Ellis) Tucker (1820-1901) and her husband, Nathaniel Beverley Tucker (1820-1890), relate to their wanderings and his career as a diplomat, Confederate agent in France and Canada, residence in England and political maneuverings in Washington, residence at Berkeley Springs, West Virginia, financial worries, and their frequent changes of residence. Included also are numerous letters of their children, especially of Beverley D. Tucker, later bishop of the Protestant Episcopal diocese of southern Virginia, and of Margaret Tucker. Numerous letters relative to farming operations of Richard S. Ellis (1825-1867) in Buckingham County, Virginia, are in the collection.
Letters during the Civil War and Reconstruction written by friends and relatives of the Munford and of the Ellis families discuss secession; mobilization; high prices; the blockade; difficulties in securing supplies; women making clothes for the army; the need for nurses; auctions of clothing when women went into mourning; refugees; civilian hardships; rumors; damage to salt and lead works; camp life; conscription; health conditions in the army; various battles and campaigns of the Civil War, including 1st Manassas, the West Virginia campaign against General Rosecrans, the surrender of Forts Henry and Donelson, the Peninsular Campaign, the Seven Days battles, the Vicksburg Campaign, the siege of Petersburg, and the surrender at Appomattox; trench life during the siege of Petersburg; fraternization between opposing lines; various Confederate and Union officers; cavalry regulations; the occupations of Alexandria, Virginia, by the New York Fire Zouaves; the possibility of arming African Americans; African American celebrations after the fall of Richmond; depredations by Union troops; the assassination of Abraham Lincoln; restlessness among freedmen; economic distress during Reconstruction; dispute between the Methodist Episcopal Church and the Methodist Episcopal Church, South, over property in Martinsburg, West Virginia; and the 1867 election in which U.S. troops were used to keep order while African Americans voted.
Other papers include original poems and clippings by William Munford, George Wythe Munford, and Bishop Beverley Dandridge Tucker; speeches and essays by George Wythe Munford and Charles Ellis Munford at the University of Virginia; manuscript entitled "History of William Radford's Incarceration in the Tower of London"; bills and receipts relating to household and political affairs; newspaper clippings and printed material concerning family biographies and obituaries, Confederate history, and genealogy of Virginia families; miscellaneous material relating to Virginia history; genealogical information on the Bland, Cabell, Ellis, Galt, Harrison, Jordan, Munford, Nimmo, Radford, Talbott, Tayloe, and Winston families, and a chart of the Munford, Ellis, and Tayloe families; scrapbook of the letters of Thomas Harding Ellis, published in the Richmond Standard, containing material on the Allan family; reminiscences of Thomas Harding Ellis on the boyhood of Edgar Allan Poe; pictures; scrapbooks, 1877-1888 and 1910-1912, of Sallie (Munford) Talbott; account book, 1823-1826, and memorandum book, 1808-1809, of Charles Ellis, Sr.; account books, 1841-1853, of the administration of the estate of Charles Ellis, Sr.; letterpress copybook, 1856-1893, of Charles Ellis [Jr.?]; surveyor's notebook, 1838-1839, and commonplace book, 1835, of James Nimmo Ellis, the latter book containing records of a club formed at the United States Military Academy "for the purpose of acquiring information"; and the Ellis family Bible.
Also contains an album (1860-1890) containing 68 cartes de visites and cabinet cards primarily featuring members of the Munford, Ellis, Tucker, and Talbot families. Most of the subjects are identified and some are hand colored. Among the portraits of family members are George Wythe Munford, Powhatan Ellis, Rev William Munford, Dallas Tucker, Charles Ellis, and Maggie N. Tucker. There are also images of CSA Gen. Joseph Johnston and Jefferson Davis, along with a Mathew Brady photograph of an unidentified man. One card features a collage with images of "Radical Members of the South Carolina legislature." Identified Richmond photography studios include Anderson & Co. and C. R. Rees.
Collection comprises a photograph album maintained by Senior Seaman Nagano during his training at Sasebo Air Base during World War II. Contains 79 albumen and gelatin silver photographs, ranging in size from 2.25 x 1.5-inches to 5.875 x 4.25-inches, as well as a few additional paper images that Nagano cut out and pasted into the album. The majority of the photographs are captioned. There are group photographs of the entire school as well as Nagano's class. Photograph topics include physical exercise and judo, drills, formation, and Navy memorial day ceremonies. In addition, there are formal portraits of individuals as well as group portraits of those Nagano knew in flight school and from his hometown. There are also casual images of Nagano's family members, along with a formal portraits, including one of Nagano with his parents. The album cover is decorated with naval and flight images; the cover has become separated from the album.
The NCHR records span the years 1982 to 2006 and contain the organization's administrative records, program and project files, legal files, extensive subject files, as well as a large collection of print materials.
NCHR maintained offices in New York City and in Port-au-Prince. The files in the NCHR records are largely those of the New York office, but there is also extensive overlap with the activities and files of the Haiti office. Key Haiti activities documented include human rights training, monitoring and reporting, judicial and penitentiary reform, Haitian National Police monitoring, and returning refugee monitoring and advocacy. Key US activities documented include Haitian community development, promoting and protecting rights of Haitian immigrants, promoting naturalization and citizenship, and educating Haitians on government services and citizenship.
The Administrative series documents the management and day-to-day operations of NCHR. These files include organizational planning, board of directors, development, and operational files.
The Program and Projects series contains the files produced by NCHR's major programmatic work: The Community Action Program (CAP), the Haitian-American Community Action Network (HACAN), Legal Education and Assistance Project (LEAP), and Restavek.
The Legal series contains files related to NCHR's work on broad legal cases effecting US immigration policy and human rights accountability in Haiti, as well as legal support NCHR provided to individuals, largely related to immigration and asylum in the US.
The William O'Neill Files series documents O'Neill's work for NCHR, primarily related to the United Nations mission to Haiti.
The Subject Files series is the largest series in the collection, documenting a wide variety of NCHR's work in Haiti, the US, and the Caribbean. Important sections include Jean-Bertrand Aristide, Haitian migrant workers in the Bahamas and the Dominican Republic, "Boat People" and interdiction, elections in Haiti, Guantanamo and Krome detention centers, and police reform. The Subject Files series may overlap with many of the other series in the collection.
The Print Material series contains an extensive collection of reports, newsletters, bulletins, and other publications primarily concerning human rights and Haitians. These materials compliment the other series in this collection, particularly the Subject Files.
The Audiovisual series contains videos, photos, and audiotapes documenting NCHR's work.
The Administrative Series documents the management, development, organizational history, and day to day operations of NCHR.
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
The Program and Projects series contains the files produced by NCHR's major programmatic work. Each program is assigned to a subseries.
Community Action Program (CAP), focused on leadership training and community advocacy.
Haitian-American Community Action Network (HACAN), brought together community organizations and individuals to work together on issues affecting the Haitian community in the US.
Haitian Entrants Legal and Civic Education Program (HELCEP), devoted to addressing police brutality in NYC, as well as assisting immigrants in navigating the broader American legal/judicial/civic system and educating them on the rights and responsibilities of civic engagement.
NCHR Immigration Project
Legal Education and Assistance Project (LEAP) focused on improving relationships between the Haitian community and the New York City Police Department.
Legalization Program
Restavek, focused on child domestic laborers in Haiti.
(Kreyol)
(French)
(Kreyol)
(Kreyol)
The Legal series contains files related to NCHR's work on broad legal cases effecting US immigration policy and human rights accountability in Haiti, as well as legal support NCHR provided to individuals, largely related to immigration and asylum in the US.
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Spanish]
[Spanish]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
The Print Materials Series contains publications and print materials covering the various issues and topics addressed by NCHR, largely focusing on Haiti and Haitians in America in the 1980's and 1990's. These materials supported NCHR's programmatic and legal work, as well as general research and analysis.
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[Spanish]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[Spanish]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[photos]
[photos]
[photos]
[photos] graphic
[photos]
[photos]
[photos] graphic
[photos]
[photos]
[French]
[photo]
[photos]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French and Kreyol]
[French]
[Spanish]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[Kreyol]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French] [Spanish]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
Cover includes political cartoon by Dodard [French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[Kreyol]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Spanish]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Spanish]
[Spanish]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Spanish]
[translated in English, Spanish, French and Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Spanish]
[French]
[Spanish]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Spanish]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Spanish]
[Spanish]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[Kreyol]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Spanish]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Spanish]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
William (Bill) O'Neill consulted for NCHR. O'Neill served for six months as a senior human rights officer with the first UN Mission deployed in Haiti, known then as the UN/OAS Human Rights Observer Mission, deployed in early 1993. O'Neill, along with Juny McCalla, Ian Martin, Ken Roth, and a few others, designed the Mission and helped implement it.
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French] [English]
The Subject Files series is the largest series in the collection, documenting a wide variety of NCHR's work in Haiti, the US, and the Caribbean. Important sections include files on individuals such as Jean-Bertrand Aristide and Prosper Avril, Haitian migrant workers in the Bahamas and the Dominican Republic, "Boat People" and interdiction, elections and judicial reform in Haiti, Guantanamo and Krome detention centers, police reform, HIV and AIDS, other human rights groups working in Haiti including Caribbean Rights, the Haitian Center for Human Rights (CHADEL), Komité National du Kongrés des Mouvements Démocratiques(KONAKOM), Ligue des Anciens Prisonniers Politiques Haïtiens(LAPPH), and Physicians for Human Rights. The Subject Files series may overlap with many of the other series in the collections.
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[Spanish]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[Spanish]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Spanish]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French][Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[Kreyol]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French] [Spanish]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French, Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
17" X 22" Color Poster, Solidarite Fanm Ayisyen (Sofa), Nov 92 [Kreyol]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[Spanish]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French][Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Spanish] [French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Spanish]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French][Spanish]
[French]
[Spanish]
[French]
[Spanish]
[Spanish]
[Spanish]
[Spanish]
[Spanish]
[Spanish]
[Spanish]
[French] [Spanish]
[Spanish]
[Spanish]
[French]
[French]
[Spanish]
[Spanish]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French] [Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French] [Kreyol]
[Spanish]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French, Spanish]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French] [Kreyol]
[French] [Spanish] [Kreyol]
[Spanish]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[Kreyol]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[Kreyol]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[Kreol]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French] [Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[Spanish]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French and Kreyol]
[Kreyol]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Spanish]
[French]
[Spanish]
[French]
[Spanish]
[Spanish]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Spanish] [French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[Spanish]
[Spanish]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French] [Kreyol]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[French]
[Kreyol]
[Kreyol]
[Kreyol]
[French]
[Spanish]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
[French]
The Audiovisual materials series contains video and audio tapes as well as photographic material documenting NCHR's work, as well as Haiti and Haitians more generally.
Photos in folders related to the USS Courageous show some of the first Haitian refugees fleeing the 1991 coup d'état, intercepted by the US Coast Guard and brought to the US Naval Base at Guantanamo, Cuba after a federal district judge in Miami ordered a stop to all forced refoulements to Haiti. The judge gave a small delegation led by the Haitian Refugee Center (HRC) 24 hours to prove that it had standing to sue the US government, and that most of these Haitians had legitimate claims to asylum because of fear of persecution if returned. The group included Ira Kuzban, chief counsel to the Haitian Refugee Center, Cheryl Little, Stephen Forrester, Esther Olivera, Jocelyn McCalla and a couple of Haitian translators. McCalla snapped the picture of the Haitians who were still being held aboard a Coast Guard cutter and had not yet been processed so they could be housed in the temporary camps being built for them [note provided by Jocelyn McCalla].
possibly 2004
VHS tapes include some commerical productions, footage of NCHR press conference, videos by other organizations dealing with events in Haiti or with Haitian-American related issues.
VHS tapes and DVD include news shows covering AIDS/HIV; audio cassettes include recordings of conferences, meetings, press conferences and interviews, and testimonies
interviews, radio spots, testimony from immigrants
TV spots, conferences, interviews about Haiti, NCHR staff, immigrants
NCHR events, short videos, productions by UN, NGO's about Haiti, refugees, immigration
The North Carolina Self-Portrait Collection, 1993-2000, contains paper documents, audio cassettes, contact sheets, slides, negatives, and photographs, all relating to the work of the NCSP project. To build the collection of images of African Americans in the South, project staff visited African American families primarilyy in North Carolina locales, but also in Mississippi, and requested copies of original family photographs created from 1900 to 1990, giving back quality reproductions to the families for their own collections.
The collection is particularly rich in materials related to the private and professional lives of African Americans living in the South during the first half of the 20th century. The images contain subjects typical to family photograph albums, including: candid and formal portraits, weddings, anniversaries, award ceremonies, school pictures, athletic teams, vacations, leisure activities, and other aspects of domestic life. In addition, many of the families whose photographs were copied were active members of religious and social organizations. Some of the distinct and more heavily represented organizations are the Arabian Shriners, New Bern Isiserettes, Eastern Stars, Young Men's Institute in Asheville, the A.M.E. Church, as well as employees of the NC Mutual Insurance Co. The North Carolina portion of this project was primarily conducted in the geographic locations of New Bern, James City, Durham, Asheville, and Southern Pines.
Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
Consists of files and records stemming from the project to create the North Carolina and Mississippi Self-Portrait Collection. Includes information sheets for each subject or family; notes from the photography sessions; grant proposals and budgets; correspondence; photocopies of loaned photos; and other project records. Also includes computer disc with information sheets.
This subseries contains paper format materials created when photographing the family albums of North Carolina residents. The material is arranged alphabetically, by the collection's creator, using a three letter code for the last name of the participant family, with some exceptions. Each folder contains an information sheet that provides an itemized description of the photographs that were copied, and may contain notes used when printing the photographs contained in other series in this collection.
Files house records concerning the administration of the NCSP project.
Photographs printed from negatives made by photographing family albums.
This subseries contains photographs made from the albums of families living in North Carolina, and is organized by the same three letter code as the North Carolina Individual Families Subseries located in the Paper Format Series.
Photographs that at the time of processing could not be directly attributed to a specific family; or photographs in a different format than the photographs in the North Carolina Individual Families Subseries.
Contains contact sheets for the projects conducted in North Carolina and Mississippi.
This subseries contains color and black-and-white contact sheets printed from negatives made from the albums of families living in North Carolina, and is organized by the same three letter code as the North Carolina Individual Families Subseries in the Paper Format Series. The color contact sheets are foldered together because they contain images for more than one family. Color images were not made for all of the participant families, if color material exists for a particular family it is noted in the following container list. The Color Contact Master Sheet (located in the Paper Format Series and the color contact sheet folder) is an index of the color contact sheets that can be used locate a corresponding black-and-white image, and to identify the participant family that provided the original image. Because the color contact sheets contain images for more than one family a portion of the contact sheet may be open for research while another portion is closed. The Color Contact Master Sheet can be used to identify the portions of the contact sheets that are closed.
This subseries contains contact sheets made for the project conducted at the University of Mississippi. Contact sheets made from the albums of participant families living in Mississippi, as well as, images of the participant families themselves are included in this subseries. The negatives used to make the contact sheets contained in this subseries are not included in this collection.
This series contains black-and-white negatives and color negatives made from the albums of families living in North Carolina, and is organized by the same three letter code as the North Carolina Individual Families Subseries in the Paper Format Series. This series also contains slides of exhibition quality photographs that were made from both the Mississippi and North Carolina projects.
This series consists of matted and unmatted black and white photographs printed from negatives originating in Mississippi and North Carolina; the matted prints were used in exhibitions in 1995 and 2000 at the Center for Documentary Studies, Duke University. Most titles supplied by archivist.
Photographer unknown. From the collection of Mrs. Eva Ford, Vicksburg, Mississippi.
Photographer unknown. From the collection of Mrs. Eva Ford, Vicksburg, Mississippi. Copied by Robert Jones. Supported by a grant from the Lyndhurst Foundation.
Photographer unknown. From the collection of Mrs. Baggs, Jackson, Mississippi. Copied by Robert Jones. Supported by a grant from the Lyndhurst Foundation.
Photographer unknown. From the collection of Melvin and Gwendolyn Loper, Jackson, Mississippi. Copied by Robert Jones. Supported by a grant from the Lyndhurst Foundation.
Photographer unknown. From the collection of Mr. Roosevelt Cathey, Coldwater, Mississippi. Copied by Robert Jones. Supported by a grant from the Lyndhurst Foundation.
From Mrs. Eva Ford, Vicksburg, Mississippi.
Captions supplied by archivist. Some prints are umatted but the majority are in mats. All are black and white prints.
This series contains audio cassette recordings of reminiscence and descriptions of the photographs copied from the albums of North Carolina participant families.
Hugh Nelson was a resident of Long Branch (Clarke Co.), Virginia. The collection consists of three bound volumes: one composition book and two account books.
Ledger of an unknown merchant in New Bern, N.C. Transactions appear chronologically by account holder, and reflect the sale of general merchandise, such as cloth and clothing, food, rum, seed, pitch, tar, and turpentine. Accounts were settled with either cash or goods.
Formerly known as Anonymous ledger C, 1767-1776.
Letters A-K missing from manuscript index at beginning of volume. At least 21 folios missing at the end of the volume. Index includes name, date range of activity, and folio where name appears.
Personal and professional papers of Nathan Carter Newbold and his relatives, including his father William A. Newbold and grandfather William Newbold (Sheriff of Pasquotank County, North Carolina), his first wife Mabel Wooten, and his second wife Eugenia Bradsher. The collection includes personal and professional correspondence, photographs, financial and property records dating from the 1840s, and recorded speeches given at Nathan Carter Newbold's retirement dinner. Some photographs have been identified as being of South Carolina during the late 19th century-early 20th century, which include portraits, street scenes (in Charleston), sail boats, as well as a few photographs of people of color, including photographs of "Lascar Sailors."Some photographs are of the U.S. Military Academy at West Point during the 1890s. Many of the legal and financial papers were generated by Nathan Carter Newbold's father and grandfather. The bulk of the correspondence relates to Nathan Carter Newbold's role as an administrator for North Carolina public schools and to his tenure as the Director of the Division of Negro Education during segregation and Jim Crow.
Includes personal and professional letters written to and from Eugenia Bradsher Newbold, Nathan Carter Newbold, Mabel Wooten and others. The letters document the courtship between Nathan Carter Newbold and his first wife Mabel Wooten, whom he married in 1900, as well as his later marriage to Eugenia Bradsher. These personal letters reveal the day-to-day experiences of the authors including their affection for one another. Much of the correspondence written to Nathan Carter Newbold is made up of appreciation letters from public school officials who wrote to Newbold upon his retirement. Other correspondence documents Newbold's professional networks (including connections to Trinity College) and depicts his activity within the North Carolina public school system as an administrator.
The bulk of the letters are written to Nathan Carter Newbold during their courtship and after their marriage in 1900 in La Grange, North Carolina.
Receipts, deeds, contracts, wills, and promissory notes. The bulk of the receipts are from business interactions created by William Newbold in Pasquotank County and Elizabeth City in North Carolina. One folder includes receipts made while William Newbold served as the legal guardian for children of the Bright family. Some of the receipts are from taxes collected by William Newbold when he served as Sheriff for Pasquatank County in the 1850s; these receipts list the names of residents and the amounts paid. Additionally, a few of the wills and deeds identify people of color and document the transfer of enslaved people.
Many portraits and some landscape scenes taken of family members and unidentified people. Many of the portraits were taken in studios in North Carolina, Virginia, Massachusetts, Texas, and Georgia; and two were taken in the Philippines, perhaps during the Spanish-American War in 1898. Some of the photographs were taken in South Carolina and include street scenes in Charleston, landscapes, and portraits. Some of the photographs are of people of color, including photographs of "Lascar Sailors." Additionally, there are photographs of the United States Military Academy (West Point).
Various-sized (mostly 3x5) cyanotypes, many with captions. They appear to have been taken in South Carolina. Though they are undated, it is likely they were taken in the late 19th or early 20th century. Many of the prints are stamped "Wm. M. Mackenzie, 16 Glebe St., Charleston, S.C." Photographs include portraits, street scenes, sail boats, as well as a few photographs of people of color, including photographs of "Lascar Sailors."
Photographs of the grounds of the academy and portraits of William Preston Wooten (class of 1898).
3x5 photographs with captions of the grounds and buildings of the academy.
Includes programs, obituaries, newspaper clippings, and miscellaneous ephemera. The bulk of the clippings relate to Nathan Carter Newbold's career with the North Carolina public school system.
Includes writings and speeches by Mabel Wooten and Nathan Carter Newbold and others. Wooten, who graduated from the State Normal and Industrial School in 1895 (which later became the University of North Carolina at Greensboro), writes about pedagogy, manners, and the history of Person County, North Carolina. Nathan Carter Newbold's writings pertain mostly to education and to Christianity. Additionally, there are recordings of speeches made at Newbold's retirement dinner in 1950.
Includes various writings as well as a laboratory manual used during her studies at the State Normal and Industrial School.
Collection comprises an incomplete contract featuring penciled-in details regarding New York City outdoor advertising locations or "bulletins," the size of the space, and the cost of advertising there.
Print advertisements for nursing profession recruitment and vocational guidance. Advertisements feature testimonials from hospital nurses in various departments and clip-out coupon to send for more information. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History. Collection comprises thirteen programs and broadsides for private benefit musical concerts and dramas performed primarily in 1867. The majority feature dramas performed at Mr. Jerome's Private Theater. Acquired as part of the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture.
Collection of 143 stereographic images of areas in southeastern China, taken by amateur photographer and American lighting engineer Frederick B. (F.B.) Nightingale from 1920 to 1921 while he traveled on business as a representative of General Electric. Nightingale's collection is of value not only for the image content, which includes many street scenes with individuals in addition to well-known sites and landscapes, but also for his lengthy captions on the back of each card, commenting on food customs, architecture, folklore, commerce, and religious beliefs and practices, as seen from a Westerner's perspective.
The majority of the images were taken in Suzhou (referred to in captions as Soochow, 55 images), Hangzhou (Hangchow, 44), Mount Putuo Island (Pu-tu, 14), and Shanghai, China (13), but there are also a few photographs from other cities (Chang'an, Ningbo, Harinen?), and a set of 11 images taken in Japan. There is also one photograph of overgrown land on Nightingale's Pasadena, California property called "Palawoo." Several images feature Nightingale, and one shows the porter carrying his camera equipment. The majority of the images are crisp with little fading. A few are stamped with small identification numbers.
Subjects include numerous temples, pagodas, monasteries, monuments, tombs, and other historic sites, some of which no longer exist. Nightingale was able to capture some images of temple interiors, and he often noted which religious sites allowed entry to women. There are many photos of street life, river traffic, modes of transportation, and Chinese vendors and pedestrians going about their daily business.
Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
Duplicate of 796 but not marked with image number.
Names of five individuals listed on back of card: Frances Widner, Dara [Deva?] Shelley, Josephine Rare [Rave?], Mrs. Hubbard, and Hugh Creighton.
"A high-voltage transformer being drawn by bull & cart in Tokyo."
Account of life in camp and traveling while stationed in North India and modern-day Pakistan by an unidentified wife of a British Army officer. The first entry begins in Meean Meer (or Mian Mir), a former large British cantonment in Pakistan. Officers and families traveled to locations including Islamabad, Kashmir, Aliabad, and Pindi Gheb. Illustrated with sketches.
The Outdoor Advertising Association of America Poster Designs are comprised of black and white poster designs (for billboard or other transit advertising), some printed on cards and some photographed and mounted in volumes, that document the advertising design holdings of several outdoor advertising companies from 1934 through the 1940s and possibly later. The majority of the designs in the collection are stock posters in preliminary sketch form with simple lines, but the collection also includes finished designs with brief information on exhibition and award status. Stock designs were created without actual brand names so more than one advertiser could use them by simply inserting their own brand name or product into the ad. The designs include work created or acquired by the Donaldson Lithographing Co., Foster and Kleiser, General Outdoor Advertising Co., and the AD-VER-TIS-ER, Inc.
These designs provide a snapshot of American consumerism during the interwar years by demonstrating how advertising professionals in the 1930s and 1940s represented products in order to entice shoppers. As well, the designs document the production of commercial art during this time period, in both the artistic process of creating ad artwork for billboards or other transit advertising space, as well as in the relationship between ad agency and client. Proven designs were available to the ad agency as sales tools to prospective clients, and these stock images could be reused, so there was less need to customize advertising campaigns for individual clients. The designs are organized into two series: Printed Poster Designs and Stock Poster Photograph Volumes.
The Printed Poster Designs Series consists of a card file of designs including some more polished billboard images, all arranged into product or service categories. The Stock Poster Photograph Volumes Series consists of twelve volumes of designs, also organized by product or service type.
Closely related collections in the David M. Rubenstein Rare Book & Manuscript Library include the Outdoor Advertising Slide Library; the John E. Brennan Outdoor Advertising Survey Reports; the John Paver Papers; the John Browning Papers; the Duplex Advertising Co. Records; the War Effort Mobilization Campaigns Collection; the Outdoor Advertising Association of America Records; the Garrett Orr Papers; the R.C. Maxwell Company Records; the Howard Scott Papers; and the Strobridge Lithographing Company Photographs.
Consists mainly of black and white printed cards of billboard advertising designs. Most images are in a preliminary stage of design completion, and many are stock designs with no actual brand names appearing. Some, however, are more polished, containing added information about placement in competitions (e.g., Annual Exhibition of Outdoor Advertising Art), the artist, and the outdoor advertising company that presumably produced the design. Foster and Kleiser and General Outdoor Advertising Co. are the two firms most often mentioned on cards. The company Sales Promotional Service is also found. This company may have distributed stock design cards to subscribers, probably outdoor advertising companies, to solicit use of its artwork. The cards were thus used as sales tools--some are printed on the reverse with information directed to clients including pricing. Some General Outdoor Advertising Co. cards appear to have designs stamped in blue ink. This particular group of cards was used in recordkeeping; they contain information about particular clients that used the design such as client name, pricing, contract length, salesman, and type of display.
Organized by product or service type categories. Some categories overlap, and so certain topics appear in more than one category. A few numbered categories contain no cards/designs.
Includes advertising designs for festivals, rodeos, ice shows, county fairs, wrestling events, boxing, hotels and dancing, live orchestra performances, bowling, show clubs, amusement parks, and dance events.
Actual advertisers featured in designs include the San Mateo County Fiesta and Rodeo, Skinnay Ennis and His Orchestra, Freddy Martin and His Orchestra, and Cypress Gardens (America's Tropical Wonderland).
Includes advertising designs for labor unions and other non-profits, public safety organizations, resorts, and theme parks.
Actual advertisers featured in designs include the National Association of Manufacturers, Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA), and the Atlantic City Department of Public Safety.
Includes advertising designs for colleges, business schools, continuing education (night school), and banks.
Actual advertisers featured in designs include Bryant and Stratton College.
Includes advertising designs for car dealers and car service providers.
Actual advertisers/brands featured in designs include Chevrolet and Oliver-Cadillac.
Includes advertising designs for gasoline, gas stations, and motor oil.
Actual advertisers/brands featured in designs include Standard Red Crown gasoline, Essolene motor fuel, and Amoco.
Includes advertising designs for new and used cars. Actual advertisers/brands featured in designs include Ford, Plymouth (1940), and Packard.
Includes advertising designs for storm windows, doors, lumber, roofing, other building materials, and the companies that supply them.
Includes advertising designs for paint, paint dealers, varnish, glass, interior decoration, and wallpaper. Most of the cards in this section carry not only an ink representation of the advertisement design but also client/account information from the offices of General Outdoor Advertising Co. This includes branch office, date, client, contract length, and type of display.
Actual advertisers/brands featured in the designs include Remien and Kuhnert, M.O. Huck Paint Co., McMurty Mfg. Co., Vane-Calvert Paint Co., Lowe Bros. Paint Store, and D.P.W. Company.
Includes advertising designs for auto and home loan financing. Some ads feature the FHA seal.
Actual advertisers/brands featured in designs include Wrigley's Double Mint Gum, and Mavrakos Candies.
Includes advertising designs for milk, cheese, cream, butter, and ice cream.
Actual advertisers/brands featured in designs include Carnation, Capitol Dairies, Jersey Farms, Harding's, Pevely, and Anthony's.
Includes advertising designs for lard, bacon, sausages, cold cuts, ham, picnic foods, bread, and pet food.
Actual advertisers/brands featured in designs include Peter Eckrich and Sons, Fischer's, Bohemian Loaf, and Abraham Bros.
Includes advertising designs for bottled drinks. Coca-Cola is featured in two ads.
Includes advertising designs for ketchup, chile [chili?], and olive oil.
Actual advertisers/brands featured in designs include Heinz and G. Simi.
Includes advertising designs for beer or other beverages.
Jax Beer is featured in multiple designs.
AandP Super Markets are featured in one ad.
West Kentucky Coal Co. is featured in one ad.
Includes advertising designs for furniture, furniture stores, appliances, awnings, and upholstery.
Actual advertisers/brands featured in designs include General Electric.
The Sears name is mentioned in one ad.
Includes advertising designs for hotels, resorts, inns, and vacation cabins.
Actual advertisers featured in designs include the Edgewater Beach Hotel and the Blackstone (Omaha).
Advertisers featured in designs include the Pig'N Whistle, and Pixley and Ehlers.
Includes an ad for Zenith Radios (1939).
Includes ads for Blatt's Department Store in Atlantic City and Marshall Field and Company.
Includes an ad for Turk's Dress and Sportswear in Burlington, Vt.
Includes an ad for Florida's Scenic Highway/Silver Springs, Fla.
Comprised of volumes originating from the AD-VER-TIS-ER, Inc. (Fort Wayne, Ind.). One volume was produced by the Donaldson Lithographing Company of Newport, Ky. Each volume contains pages on which a particular numbered design (about 8" x 3.5") is pasted, probably bound and displayed for use with prospective clients. The designs tend to be more complete than line drawings but none include particular names or brands. Arranged by product or service.
The design book produced by the Donaldson Lithographing Co. dates to circa 1930.
Advertising for financial institutions, car dealers, or other types of lenders.
Dairy industry spokes-character.
Collection comprises items related to the One Person, One Vote: Learning from the Past, Organizing for the Future Voting Rights Conference held September 18-20, 2015 in Durham, N.C. Materials include the conference program, contents of a participant notebook, feedback from attendees, and a mailing card for a related multimedia website.
Materials include the conference program, contents of a participant notebook, feedback from attendees, and a mailing card for a related multimedia website.
The Garrett Orr Papers document the artistic output and personal files of advertising executive Garrett Orr. Although the collection spans the years circa 1873 to 1994, the bulk of the materials fall within two main periods: the 1890s to 1914, comprising a photographic collection of old poster images; and 1930 to 1965, which approximates the span of Orr's professional life. The collection includes the original drawings, water colors and paintings produced by Orr as designs for the outdoor advertising campaigns of a wide variety of products such as Gillette razors, Ipana toothpaste (Bristol-Myers), Lucky Strikes and Viceroy cigarettes (Brown & Williamson), Mazola corn oil (Corn Products Refining Company), Seagram beverages, Verney fabrics, and White Rose tea. Also included are folders of photographs, slides and negatives of Orr's advertising work for approximately 550 companies (with index). In addition, a collection of almost 200 large-format negatives and photographs document images of 19th- and early 20th-century posters for plays, musicals, minstrel shows, circuses, and hotels. A large set of clippings files contain published examples of the work of over 100 graphic artists and illustrators contemporary with Orr, including Floyd Davis, Ronald McLeod, George Petty, Howard Scott, Ben Stahl, Jon Whitcomb, and J. Walter Wilkinson. The collection is organized into five series--the General Files Series; the Artists and Illustrators Series; the Product Files Series; the Other Photographic Materials Series; and the Sketches Series. Large-format items from the Artists and Illustrators Series and Sketches Series have been relocated to Oversize Materials.
Closely related collections held by the Rubenstein Library include: the Outdoor Advertising Association of America (OAAA) Archives; the Outdoor Advertising Association of America (OAAA) Poster Designs; the Outdoor Advertising Association of America (OAAA) Slide Library; the Duplex Advertising Company Billboard Images and Records; the Strobridge Lithographing Company Advertisements; the R.C. Maxwell Co. Records; the Howard Scott Papers; and the John Paver Papers.
Consists primarily of clippings, correspondence and obituary notices. Also includes a collection of some of Orr's articles; his personal notes for an outdoor advertising campaign; and announcements of exhibitions and award presentations by professional organizations such as the American Institute of Graphic Arts, the Art Directors Clubs of New York and New Jersey, and the Society of Illustrators. Arranged alphabetically.
Clippings, tear sheets and photographs of advertisements and periodical illustrations produced by approximately 127 commercial artists. Most materials date between 1935 and 1950, with a particularly strong emphasis on World War II-era illustrations. Dates for some materials could not be readily determined but have been provided where known. Materials are organized into two format-related subseries--Printed Materials and Photographs--to accommodate storage needs, and arranged alphabetically therein by artist name.
Prominent artists featured here include: Peter Arno (best known for his New Yorker illustrations of the 1930s and 1940s); C.C. Beall (illustrator for Collier's magazine in the 1940s); Pierre Brissaud (Wamsutta sheets, 1930s); Dean Cornwell (noted for his World War II action scenes, and his illustrations for General Motors' Fisher Bodies and Philadelphia Whiskey); Floyd Davis (creator of distinctive comic characters for Ten High Whiskey, 1930s); John Gannam (lifestyle vignettes for Pacific Mills and the U.S. Brewers Association); Earl Oliver Hurst (cover illustrations for Collier's magazine 1930s, Jantzen sportswear); Ronald McCleod (cover illustrations for Collier's 1940s, Plymouth and Texaco print advertisements); Al Parker (cover illustrations for Ladies' Home Journal 1940s-1950s); Russell Patterson (noted for his Ballyhoo magazine cover art in the 1930s; his specialty, stylized ink drawings of barely-clad female figures in comic situations, were featured on advertisements for a number of different products); George Petty (a longtime illustrator for Esquire magazine; the Petty Girls drawings were one of the most recognizable styles of pinup art in the 1930s and 1940s); Robert O. Reid (Collier's cover art 1939-40; illustrator for Oldsmobile automobiles and Pabst Blue Ribbon beer); Howard Scott (Saturday Evening Post cover art 1940s; advertisements for Nash automobiles and Esso oil products; researchers interested in Scott's work should also consult the Howard Scott Papers); Ben Stahl (Rogers Bros. silverware; perhaps most famous for his illustrations on the John Hancock insurance company's American Heroes advertising campaign); Jon Whitcomb, who in the 1930s and 1940s was a nearly ubiquitous illustrator for women's and family magazines such as Ladies' Home Companion, Good Housekeeping, Saturday Evening Post, and Collier's; and J. Walter Wilkinson (the OAAA campaign Make a Long Story Short, WW II Defense Bonds); original paintings by this artist are contained in Oversize Materials.
Includes covers from Vanity Fair, 1934-1935.
Includes advertisement for Ford.
Includes advertisements for Gem razors and Mori; covers from New Yorker, 1935-1941.
Includes advertisements for Dow Chemical, Kinsey whiskey, National City Bank of New York, Shell Research; covers from Saturday Evening Post, 1943-1944, and Woman's Home Companion, 1939.
Includes advertisement for Philips Petroleum.
Includes covers from Collier's, 1944-1946.
Includes advertisement for Sanka.
Includes advertisement for French Line, Pall Mall, Wamsutta Sheets, Westvaco.
Includes cover from Harper's Bazaar, 1936.
Includes cover from Collier's, 1944.
Includes advertisement for Cream of Wheat.
Includes advertisements for Fridgidaire, Pet Milk.
Includes advertisements for NRFA, Swift and Co.
Includes advertisements for Early Times, Fisher/GM , Goodyear, National City Bank of New York, Pennsylvania Railroad, Philadelphia whiskey, Powers Reproductions, Seagram's gin, Wyeth's.
Includes cover from New Yorker, 1937.
Includes cover from Collier's, 1940.
Includes advertisements for Continental Can, Dixie Belle gin, Dorothy Gray, Fleischmann's, Hind's Cream, Johnny Walker Scotch, Sanka, Seagram's, Spalding, Spud Cigarettes, Talon, Ten High whiskey, Texaco, Wamsutta, WestVaco.
Includes advertisements for Capital Stock Fire Insurance, Bromo-Seltzer, Fels-Naptha, Fleetwood Cigarettes, Frigidaire, Imperial Whiskey, Johnson and Johnson, Mount Vernon Whiskey, Revere Copper and Brass, Sanka, Texaco, USO, World Peaceways, Wurlitzer.
Includes advertisements for Camel and French Line; covers from Vogue, 1933-1939.
Includes advertisements for Arrow Shirts, Gulf; covers from Saturday Evening Post, 1944-1945.
Includes advertisements for Cashmere Bouquet, Dollar Steamship Line, Gruen, John Hancock, Howard Paper Mills, Mack Trucks, Pan-Am.
Includes advertisement for Lucky Strike.
Includes advertisements for Ipana Toothpaste, La Salle, Pacific Mills, St. Mary's Blankets, U.S. Brewers Foundation.
Includes advertisements for Bermuda Tourism, Crane's Fine Papers, Hockanum Woolens, Italian Line, Listerine, Mercury, Byron Musser, Stetson Hats, Vitamins Plus, Wamsutta, Westvaco, Woodbury Facial Soap; covers from Cosmopolitan, 1949, and Woman's Home Companion, 1935-1937.
Includes cover from Motor, 1930.
Includes advertisements for Cannon Mills, Chanel, Coty, Spud Cigarettes.
Includes advertisements for New York Subway Advertising Company Incorporated.
Includes advertisements for Cannon, Schaefer.
Includes covers from TV Guide and American Mercury.
Includes advertisements for Westvaco.
Includes covers from Collier's, 1929-1930.
Includes advertisements for Lucky Strike.
Includes advertisements for DuPont, General Electric, Jantzen, Royal Crown; covers from Collier's, 1932-1941.
Includes advertisements for Ford. See also Photographs Subseries.
Includes covers from The American Magazine.
Includes cover from Pictorial Review.
Includes advertisements for Budweiser, Chevrolet, Fire Prevention Week, Niagra Mohawk, Mobil, Plymouth, Schaefer, Schenley, Texaco, U.S. Rubber Co; covers from Saturday Evening Post, 1939, Collier's, 1939-1944.
Includes advertisement for Certain-Teed.
Includes advertisement for Ford.
Includes advertisement for Ford.
Includes advertisement for Chase and Sanborn; covers from Ladies' Home Journal, 1939-1951.
Includes advertisements for Fisk Tire and General Electric.
Includes advertisements for April Showers, Borden; covers from Ballyhoo, 1935.
Includes cover from The Illustrator.
Includes advertisements for Acme Beer, Airman, Best Form, Jantzen, Old Gold, Quaker Stockings; various illustrations from Esquire.
Includes covers from Saturday Evening Post, 1940-1943.
Includes advertisements for Maxwell House.
Includes advertisements for Budd.
Includes advertisements for Blue Ribbon, General Tire, Oldsmobile, Old Gold, Sealed Power; covers from Collier's, 1939-1940.
Includes advertisements for Airesearch, Capehart, Curtiss Wright, Dole, IBM, National Steel, New England Mutual, Owens-Corning, Packard, Pennsylvania Railroad, Schenley, Shell, Springmaid.
Includes cover from Adventure.
Includes cover from Collier's.
Includes advertisements for Ford. See also Photographs Subseries.
Includes advertisements for Blue Ribbon, Delmonte, Esso, Fleetwood, Ford, Jello, Jewel, Mobil, Nabisco, Nash, Pillsbury, Popsicle, Pyro, Rath, Schaeffer, Sohio, Standard, Wonder; covers from Saturday Evening Post , 1941-1944.
Includes advertisements for Chevrolet.
Includes advertisements for Ford and Shell.
Includes advertisements for Bell, Coca-Cola, Evervess, John Hancock, Kleenex, Maxwell House, Rosenblum, Rogers Bros.
Includes advertisements for Amoco, Atlas, Ballantine's, Dept. of Agriculture, Esso, Hiram Walker, Swan. See also Photographs Subseries.
Includes advertisements for Beech-Nut gum, Fuller paint, Mobil oil; cover from Saturday Evening Post.
Includes advertisements for American Petroleum Institute, B&O Railroad, Carrier, Coca-Cola, Ford, GE, GM, Goodyear, Gulf, Heinz, Kinsey, Sealtest, Stetson.
Includes advertisement for Prince Albert.
Includes advertisement for Studebaker; cover from Collier's.
Includes advertisements for New York Times.
Includes advertisements for Schiaparelli; covers from Vogue and Harper's Bazaar.
Includes advertisements for Acme Beer, Cadillac, Chevrolet, Community Silverplate, Jantzen, Kotex, Lustre-Crme, Oneida Silver, Palmolive; covers from Collier's, 1939-1947, Saturday Evening Post, Woman's Home Companion, Famous Artist and Good Housekeeping.
Illustrations and articles; advertisements for Community Silverplate, Jantzen, Marlboro, Mum, Toushay, Puerto Rico, Sanka, Sea Tweed, Windex.
Includes advertisements for Arrow Shirts, Pepsi, Philip Morris cigarettes; cover from Cosmopolitan.
Includes advertisements for Defense Bonds, Esso, Ford, Outdoor Advertising. See also Oversize Folder 1.
Includes advertisements for Arrow Shirt, Bermuda Tourism, Ford, GE, Gulf, Hockanum, Plymouth, Wamsutta, World Peaceways.
Includes advertisement for Cadillac.
Includes cover from Collier's Weekly.
Includes advertisement for Esso.
Includes cover from Saturday Evening Post.
Includes advertisement for Johns Manville.
Includes cover from Fortune.
Includes advertisements for Airlines of the U.S., AutoCar, Autolite, Belmont Radio, Borden, Capehart, CCA, Cornet Brandy, Crisco, Dodge, Dow, Eveready, High Standard, LaSalle (General Motors), Monsanto, Packard, Revere Copper and Brass, RKO Pictures, Saks Fifth Avenue, Seagram, Seiberling, Texaco, Westvaco; covers from Time, 1943-1944. See also Photographs Subseries.
Includes advertisements for Ford. See also Printed Materials Subseries.
Includes advertisements for Holly Farms and Plymouth. See also Sketches Series.
Includes advertisements for Ford. See also Printed Materials Subseries.
Includes advertisements for automotive and gasoline products. See also Printed Materials Subseries.
Includes advertisements for S&W coffee.
Includes advertisements for Chevrolet, Dodge and Pontiac automobiles. See also Printed Materials Subseries
Tear sheets, clippings, proofs and photographs of both print-media and outdoor advertising displays, representing around 450 products. Dates for some materials could not be readily determined, but dates have been provided where known. Included for some products are images from the OAI pamphlet series Poster Ideas, which highlighted successful or innovative advertising campaigns along with suggested poster ideas for particular products. Not all of the advertisements included represent work by Orr, and some clippings appear to have been added after Orr's death. Materials have been arranged into two subseries--Print Advertisements and Photographs--to accommodate storage needs. In addition, the Print Advertisements Subseries has been further organized into small- and large-format sizes. There is considerable overlap between the Print Advertisements and Photographs Subseries, and researchers are advised to consult both subseries. Arranged alphabetically by product category, therein by trade name.
Photographs, negatives and slides arranged by Orr into distinct collections that stand apart from photographic items present in other series. The series is organized into two subseries--Historical Poster Images and Modern Poster Images--and therein alphabetically by product category and trade name or title.
Large-format photographs and negatives of posters, billboards, theatre and circus signs and other advertising-related images of goods, services and entertainment events that date from the late 19th-early 20th century. Dates for individual images have been supplied where known, but not every image could be precisely dated. The images are all on modern safety film and negative stock, which suggests that the photographs might have been taken taken during the 1930s-1940s at the earliest, but a more accurate dating of the photographs themselves cannot be determined. Many of the posters bear the logos of various incarnations of the Strobridge Lithographing Company. In addition, some of the photographs have handwritten notes on the back that indicate that those images may have originated with the Chicago Historical Society, while others bear the stamp of the Outdoor Advertising Association of America Library. Anecdotal evidence further suggests that these photographs were once part of, or copies of, a historical advertisement archive maintained by OAI, but that suggestion cannot be verified. Organized into three groups--Photographs, Negatives (photographs available), and Negatives (photographs not available)--and therein alphabetically by subject category, item name, or title.
Many images in this subseries may be in the public domain. However, it is the researcher's responsibility to comply with all copyright and trademark laws.
For related materials see the Strobridge Lithographing Company Advertisements collection and the Outdoor Advertising Association of America (OAAA) Archives.
Includes:
Anheuser-Busch
Anheuser-Busch, Attack on an Emigrant Train
Clausen Ale
Gibson's Rip Van Winkle Whiskey, 1892
Pleasant Valley Wine Co.
Tosetti Brewing
Wacker & Birk Brewing Co.
Includes Cotton Plant stoves, Thatcher furnaces.
Includes Magic White soap, Pearline, Sapolio.
Includes the Barnum Monkey Tribe, Barnum Ox, Sells Brothers' dwarf elephant and hippopotomi.
Includes one advertisement in German (1900).
Includes Adam Forepaugh's Circus and Menagerie; Aeriel the Flying Man (W. W. Cole); Be-Be the Flying Lady (W.C. Coup); President Garfield assassination tableaux (W.C. Coup).
Includes:
Alaskan, The
Arcadian, The, 1910
Around the World in 80 Days
Bad Man from Mexico, 1906
Beautiful Adventure, 1914
Dollar Princess, The, 1909
Fight, The
Gay Parisians, The, 1895
Gretna Green, 1902
Ham Tree, The, 1913
Iron King, The
Little Corporal, The, 1898
Little Terror, The, 1909
Marriage Market, The, 1913
M'lle Modeste, 1904
Mountain Climber, The, 1906
Naughty Anthony
Our Miss Gibbs, 1910
Patriot, The, 1908
Peg o' My Heart
Rollicking Girl, The, 1905
Runaway, The, 1911
Saratoga
Sergeant Bruce, 1905
Such a Little Queen, 1905
Sunshine Girl, The
Toreador, The, 1903
Includes:
Babes in Toyland, 1904
Chieftain, The, 1895
Fluffy Ruffles
Gypsy, The, 1912
Little Cherub, The
Quaker Girl, The
Storks, The, 1892
Includes:
Fleur de Lis, 1895
Othello
Spider & Fly
Includes:
Arsne Lupin, 1909
The Auctioneer, 1901
Barbara Frietchie, The Frederick Girl, 1900
Bedford's Hope, 1905
Bird of Paradise, 1913
Black Crook
Bonnie Scotland, 1895
Butterfly on the Wheel, 1912
Chantecler, 1911
Child of the Regiment, 1906
Curse of Drink, The, 1904
Damaged Goods
D'Arcy of the Guards
Darling of the Gods, The, 1903
Dawn of a To-Morrow, The, 1910 (written by Frances Hodgson Burnett, author of A Little Princess and A Secret Garden)
Easiest Way, The, 1907
Factory Girl, The, 1903
Fighting Hope, The, 1908
Fool of Fortune, 1896
For His Brother's Crime, 1903
Girl of the Golden West, The, 1906
Harvest Moon, The, 1909
Harvester, The, 1904
He Fell in Love with His Wife, 1912
Heart of the Klondike, 1897
Heart of Maryland, The, 1904
Hearts are Trumps, 1900
Hon. John Grigsby, 1901
John Mishler, One of the Finest
Lady Rose's Daughter, 1902
Last Stroke, A Story of Cuba's Fight for Freedom, 1900
Lion and the Mouse, The, 1904
Little Minister, The, 1897 (written by J.M. Barrie, author of Peter Pan)
Lost Paradise, The (written by David Belasco and Henry DeMille, Cecil B. DeMille's father)
Lottie the Poor Sales Lady, or, Death Before Dishonor, 1907
Maister of Woodbarrow, The
Mice and Men, 1903
Mile a Minute
Music Master, The, 1904
Night's Frolic
Ninety and Nine, The
Old Curiosity Shop, The, 1909
Parted on Her Bridal Tour, 1907
Peter Pan, 1907
Prince of India, The, 1905
Queen of the White Slaves, 1903
Rainbow, The, 1913
Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm, 1911
Rebel, The, 1900
Red Mill, The, 1908
Rose of the Rancho, The, 1907
Runnymede, 1895
Sidewalks of New York, The, 1895
Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs
Speckled Band, The, 1910
Spoilers, The, 1907
Third Degree, The, 1898
Tree of Knowledege, The, 1898
Trelawny of the Wells, 1898
Trip to Chinatown
Uncle Tom's Cabin (produced by Jay Rial and featuring genuine trained bloodhounds)
Virginius
Warrens of Virginia, The, 1908 (written by William C. DeMille, brother of Cecil B. DeMille)
Way Down East, 1898
White Slave, The
Woman, The, 1911 (written by William C. DeMille, brother of Cecil B. DeMille)
Negatives correspond to the historical poster photographs listed above.
Includes:
Anheuser-Busch
Anheuser-Busch, Attack on an Emigrant Train
Clausen Ale
Gibson's Rip Van Winkle Whiskey, 1892
Pleasant Valley Wine Co.
Tosetti Brewing
Wacker & Birk Brewing Co.
Includes the Barnum Monkey Tribe, Barnum Ox, Sells Brothers' dwarf elephant and hippopotomi.
Includes one advertisement in German.
Includes Adam Forepaugh's Circus and Menagerie; Aeriel the Flying Man (W. W. Cole); Be-Be the Flying Lady (W.C. Coup); President Garfield assassination tableaux (W.C. Coup).
Includes:
Alaskan, The
Arcadian, The, 1910
Around the World in 80 Days
Bad Man from Mexico, 1906
Beautiful Adventure, 1914
Dollar Princess, The, 1909
Fight, The
Gay Parisians, The, 1895
Gretna Green, 1902
Ham Tree, The, 1913
Iron King, The
Little Corporal, The, 1898
Little Terror, The, 1909
Marriage Market, The, 1913
M'lle Modeste, 1904
Mountain Climber, The, 1906
Naughty Anthony
Our Miss Gibbs, 1910
Patriot, The, 1908
Peg o' My Heart
Rollicking Girl, The, 1905
Runaway, The, 1911
Saratoga
Sergeant Bruce, 1905
Such a Little Queen, 1905
Sunshine Girl, The
Toreador, The, 1903
Includes:
Babes in Toyland, 1904
Chieftain, The, 1895
Fluffy Ruffles
Gypsy, The, 1912
Little Cherub, The
Quaker Girl, The
Storks, The, 1892
Includes:
Arsne Lupin, 1909
The Auctioneer, 1901
Barbara Frietchie, The Frederick Girl, 1900
Bedford's Hope, 1905
Bird of Paradise, 1913
Black Crook
Bonnie Scotland, 1895
Butterfly on the Wheel, 1912
Chantecler, 1911
Child of the Regiment, 1906
Curse of Drink, The, 1904
Damaged Goods
D'Arcy of the Guards
Darling of the Gods, The, 1903
Dawn of a To-Morrow, The, 1910 (written by Frances Hodgson Burnett, author of A Little Princess and A Secret Garden)
Easiest Way, The, 1907
Factory Girl, The, 1903
Fighting Hope, The, 1908
Fool of Fortune, 1896
For His Brother's Crime, 1903
Girl of the Golden West, The, 1906
Harvest Moon, The, 1909
Harvester, The, 1904
He Fell in Love with His Wife, 1912
Heart of the Klondike, 1897
Heart of Maryland, The, 1904
Hearts are Trumps, 1900
Hon. John Grigsby, 1901
John Mishler, One of the Finest
Lady Rose's Daughter, 1902
Last Stroke, A Story of Cuba's Fight for Freedom, 1900
Lion and the Mouse, The, 1904
Little Minister, The, 1897 (written by J.M. Barrie, author of Peter Pan)
Lost Paradise, The (written by David Belasco and Henry DeMille, Cecil B. DeMille's father)
Lottie the Poor Sales Lady, or, Death Before Dishonor, 1907
Maister of Woodbarrow, The
Mice and Men, 1903
Mile a Minute
Music Master, The, 1904
Night's Frolic
Ninety and Nine, The
Old Curiosity Shop, The, 1909
Parted on Her Bridal Tour, 1907
Peter Pan, 1907
Prince of India, The, 1905
Queen of the White Slaves, 1903
Rainbow, The, 1913
Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm, 1911
Rebel, The, 1900
Red Mill, The, 1908
Rose of the Rancho, The, 1907
Runnymede, 1895
Sidewalks of New York, The, 1895
Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs
Speckled Band, The, 1910
Spoilers, The, 1907
Third Degree, The, 1898
Tree of Knowledege, The, 1898
Trelawny of the Wells, 1898
Trip to Chinatown
Uncle Tom's Cabin (produced by Jay Rial and featuring genuine trained bloodhounds)
Virginius
Warrens of Virginia, The, 1908 (written by William C. DeMille, brother of Cecil B. DeMille)
Way Down East, 1898
White Slave, The
Woman, The, 1911 (written by William C. DeMille, brother of Cecil B. DeMille)
Includes Cadillac, Chevrolet, Ford, Moon Motor cars, Pontiac.
Includes Honda motorcycles, United States Tires.
Includes Chase and Sanborn, Folger's Coffee, Orange Squeeze soda.
Includes Honey Scotch Candies, Wrigley's, Adams California Fruit Gum.
Includes Campbell's Soup, Meadow Gold Butter, Borden's Milk.
Includes Lucky Strike, Kool and Camel.
Includes Robert Burns cigars, Prince Albert tobacco.
Photographs, negatives and slides depicting billboard advertisements, location shots, and images of bill-posting in progress, dating primarily from the 1960s-1970s. The photographs, negatives and slides were originally kept by Orr, but it is not clear whether Orr was directly involved in the images' production, or whether they were collected for other purposes. Also, there is no readily determined relation among the photographs, negatives and slides contained herein. While there may be some duplication of images found elsewhere in the collection, there is no evidence to link these photographs with other photgraphic or negative materials found in the papers.
Negatives bear no apparent relation to the modern poster photographs in the subseries above. Arranged by type and therein alphabetically.
Contains slides of billboard advertisements, location shots, and images of bill-posting in progress, originally housed in binders. There may be some duplication of images found elsewhere in the collection, but there is no evidence to link the slides with other photgraphic or negative materials found in the collection.
Sketches, drawings and paintings done by Orr at various stages in his career. The series is arranged into two subseries: Billboard and Poster Designs and Non-Advertising Sketches. The Billboard and Poster Designs subseries contains around 400 sketches of billboard designs, organized by product type and brand name. The Non-Advertising Sketches category contains sketches and drawings, along with a few small paintings, that provide a glimpse into the range of Orr's interests as an artist as well as revealing something of his artistic method. There are numerous studies of male and female forms and faces, caricatures, still life drawings, along with street scenes and backdrop art for outdoor advertising. Also included is a copy of a Vanity Fair cover which Orr did in 1935, and several illustrations for the book jackets of popular novels. Arranged alphabetically. Oversized materials have been removed to Oversize Folders 2-9.
[See also Oversize Folders 2-6.]
Includes a note written by Orr in the first folder.
Includes self-portraits, studies of female forms and backdrop art. Some items removed to Oversize Folders 7-9.
Includes covers for Mission to Mackinac, The Outlander, Sherman: Fighting Prophet, 1776 Revolution, Vanity Fair, 1933 and 1935.
Oversize folders 4, 5, 7, and 8 have been reboxed into Box 38.
Includes three original oil paintings Wilkinson made for the OAAA campaign To Make a Long Story Short--Use Outdoor Advertising.
Images include Arcadian fertilizer, Allied Chemical, Cheer, Colgate, Craig, Drake's cookies, Ford, Hamm's beer, Heinz soup, Kenl Ration, Life Saver, Nash automobiles, Ritz crackers, and Universal range.
Images include Alpine cigarettes, Arrow shirts, Bowery Savings Bank, Bufferin, Busch beer, Chesterfield cigarettes, Colgate, Dacron, Defense Bonds, Dime Savings Bank, Dristan, DuPont, Folex Herbicides, Fram filters, Gillette, Greater New York Relief Fund, Ipana, IPNA, I.W. Harper whiskey, Kodl, Kool cigarettes, Listerine, Lucky Strike, Mazola oil, Micrin mouthwash, Muriel cigars, People's Drug, Philip Morris Company, Polar ice cream, Rexall Drug, Schenley Reserve whiskey, Teem, TESTA car, Trommers beer, Verney fabrics, Viceroy cigarettes, White Rose tea and outdoor advertising industry promotion.
Additional posters; see above for content.
Includes landscapes, still life and form studies, portraits.
Additional sketches, see above for content.
The collection consists of a single diary kept by Mary Gorham Paine as she traveled twice by ship from Boston to islands near Madagascar. Forty-six manuscript pages provide both a day-by-day account of her trip aboard the Sarah Hobart to Nossi-Be (present day Nosy Be) from December 25, 1879 to May 4, 1880, and a three-page, mid-journey synopsis of the passage with her young son, Allan, to Reunion Island, begun on December 13, 1883. As is made clear by the text, the intent of both voyages was to join her husband, Captain Eben W. Paine, who was probably located in Zanzibar at the time. Newspaper clippings chiefly concerned with literary topics, news and issues relating to Africa, and obituaries for her husband and others are pasted into 18 pages following the narrative portion of the diary together with a photograph of a man and another of a baby, most likely her husband and son. The clippings lack an indication of the year and source except for the Literary Leaves articles which are from the Boston Journal.
The diary provides some insight into the life of a sea captain's wife and a description of long-distance ocean travel aboard a barque such as the Sarah Hobart. Paine initially suffered from sea-sickness, but once recovered, occupied herself with sewing, reading, washing, and baking, as well as socializing and playing cards and Parcheesi with fellow travelers. She often mentioned the activities of her primary companions, Mrs. Crocker and the ship's Captain, who sometimes cooked special meals for his female passengers and was often engaged in washing clothing himself. In addition, Paine unfailingly commented on the weather, foods served at meals, number of miles traveled, number of days at sea, and types of ships sighted. On April 18th, after nearly four months at sea, the ship made port at Tamatave, Madagascar (present day Toamasina). Paine mentioned little about the six days spent ashore and continued with the diary only until arrival at Nossi-Be. The summary description of the second journey centers mainly on Paine's concern with her 20-month old son's well-being and activities aboard ship, her own struggle with sea-sickness and feelings of inadequacy in managing her son, and her appreciation for the assistance of Mrs. Hill and the ship's Captain in caring for him. The final update to the narrative was added on February 4th, 1884, while still en route to their first stop, Reunion Island.
The Nell Irvin Painter Papers span the years 1793-2021, with the bulk of the material dating between 1876 and 2007, and are primarily composed of the extensive correspondence, writing, research, teaching materials, and other professional papers that Painter has produced in her long career as a scholar, teacher, and writer in 19th- and 20th-century American and African American history. The materials document the breadth and depth of Painter's interests and her intellectual and personal influence on a generation of historians. Her varied roles as student, teacher, colleague, and mentor are recorded in a wide variety of formats: correspondence with colleagues, students, family, and friends; syllabi, department memoranda, and meeting minutes from her graduate and faculty positions at Harvard, Princeton, and the Universities of North Carolina and Pennsylvania; materials from many professional organizations in the fields of African American history, Southern history, American studies, and women's studies; and records of her speaking engagements, conferences, and meetings. Painter the historian and author are revealed in the extensive notes, photocopies, recordings, photographs, manuscripts, and proofs produced in writing many articles and five of her major books: Exodusters: Black Migration to Kansas after Reconstruction; The Narrative of Hosea Hudson: His Life as a Negro Communist in the South; Standing at Armageddon: The United States, 1877-1919; Sojourner Truth, A Life, A Symbol; and Creating Black Americans: African-American History and its Meanings, 1619 to the Present. The portrait is rounded out by the materials in other series: personal files, which include materials from her student years at Harvard and abroad in Ghana and France as well as personal journals; a few papers of Ghanaian writer Ayi Kwei Armah; photographs, including many historical photographs of African Americans as well as many personal snapshots in color and black-and-white; and other non-print media such as audiotapes, audiocassettes, videocassettes, and computer diskettes.
Painter's research files contain a wealth of information about many topics in American history: biography of African Americans; biography as a literary form; slavery; Reconstruction; the 1870s migration from the South to Kansas; a variety of social reform movements--such as abolition, communism, labor, and women's suffrage--and movers, such as Sojourner Truth and Hosea Hudson; and the history of social conditions and political change in the United States from the early-19th to the mid-20th century, particularly as expressed in race relations, in women's history, and in the South. At the same time, Painter's papers also constitute a contemporary record of many trends in American culture such as career and educational choices and opportunities for academic women and African American professionals. Her correspondence with students, colleagues, and longtime friends such as Nellie Y. McKay, her teaching material and academic files, her papers from an array of historians' organizations, and her personal journals each shed their own light on these themes.
The collection is arranged in these series: Correspondence, Writings and Research, Teaching Materials, Professional Service, Personal Files, Photographic Materials, Audiovisual Materials,Electronic Formats, and a collection of private papers collected by Painter, the Ayi Kwei Armah Papers. The first four series comprise almost eighty percent of the physical extent of the collection and are each divided into several subseries. The Correspondence Series follows Painter's personal life, education, and professional career from her graduate years at Harvard in the late 1960s through her retirement from Princeton in 2004.
The Writings and Research Series is arranged in seven subseries, the first five of which are based on five of Painter's major books; the final two subseries are Other Research Topics, which gathers many of Painter's shorter writings, and Writings by Others. With the exception of the last, all the subseries here contain correspondence with colleagues and editors; typescript drafts of works; various stages of proof; extensive photocopies of archival materials and published articles; voluminous notes about her readings and research; and some photographs and recordings, most of which have been removed to their respective series for preservation.
The Teaching Materials Series documents Painter's work with students and academic colleagues at Harvard, the University of Pennsylvania, the University of North Carolina, Hunter College, and Princeton University. It is arranged into two series: Courses Subseries, with syllabi, reading lists, and Painter's notes on the development of her courses that reflect the evolution of women's studies and African American studies in the curriculum; and the Academic Files Subseries, revealing Painter's many different roles over three decades: graduate student, job applicant, junior and tenured faculty member, dissertation advisor, mentor, and department head.
The Professional Service Series, arranged in two subseries, documents Painter's activities in the broader academic community beyond her university of employment and her personal connections through materials from well over one hundred professional organizations, conferences, foundations, committees and task forces, as well as editorial boards of journals and publishers with which Painter has worked during her career. The Engagements Subseries gathers documents relating to addresses, speeches, and awards ceremonies at some three hundred conferences, meetings, and symposia.
Five smaller series and a gathering of oversize material round out the collection. The Personal Files Series contains an assortment of records such as curriculum vitae; documents about her family; and some records of her student years, especially her travel and study in France and Africa. The series includes some three dozen personal journals covering most of the years from 1959-2005 containing entries about her life and career (NOTE: some journals are CLOSED to use; see details in the series note). The Photographic Materials Series contains several hundred photographs, negatives, and slides, predominantly personal and travel snapshots but also including professional portraits of Painter as well as a number of original photographs and reproductions of archival photographs she used in her research and writing. Much of the material in the early years of the Audiovisual Materials Series is related to her research and writing; by the 1990s, the content shifts focus to documenting Painter herself on the occasion of various interviews and addresses. The Electronic Formats Series consists of diskettes containing correspondence and drafts of writings. The Oversize Materials contains items from several series and subseries are gathered. The final series in the collection consists not of Painter's own work but that of a Ghanaian novelist and poet; see the Ayi Kwei Armah Papers (RESTRICTED) series note for further information on the provenance and usage of these materials.
Unprocessed additions to the collection are listed at the end of the collection guide.
Note about date range of materials: The primary material produced by Painter begins around 1959 with her earliest journals. Earlier dates in various series, occurring mainly in Writings and Research, reflect the intellectual content and original publication of the large volume of reproduced research material present in the collection. Contains professional correspondence between Painter and her professors, colleagues, and students over the course of her career; personal letters to and from family, friends, and colleagues; and some administrative and interdepartmental memoranda from each of the universities at which Painter served as professor. Documents Painter's personal life, education, and career from her graduate years at Harvard in the late 1960s up through her retirement from Princeton in 2004. Major figures who corresponded with Painter include African-American novelist Toni Morrison; professors of English Houston A. Baker, Jr., Werner Sollors, and Nellie Y. McKay; and historians Darlene Clark Hine and William L. Andrews. Theirs and others' correspondence may appear in either the Chronological Subseries or Alphabetical Subseries. Professional correspondence also includes some letters related to editorial matters, organizations such as the National Endowment for the Humanities, and such publishers as Heinneman of the African Writer's Series. Arranged in four subseries: the Chronological, Alphabetical, Student/Candidate Files, and Nellie Y. McKay (CLOSED).
Materials Retrieval Note: In addition to the material gathered in this series, Painter's extensive correspondence can be found in many other places in the collection. This is particularly true of the Writings and Research Series and the Professional Service Series. In the case of the former, each of the five subseries for Painter's major books contains a Correspondence subgroup within it related to research and publication of the book, and correspondence also appears in various folders throughout the other two subseries. In the Professional Service Series, correspondence appears in both subseries--Organizations and Engagements--though more substantially in the former. Thus in order to be sure of seeing all correspondence that might relate to a particular book, for example, patrons should retrieve not only the correspondence from that book's subseries in the Writings and Research Series, but also any boxes in the Correspondence Series that originate from any applicable time spans or persons in the Chronological and Alphabetical subseries, respectively.
Correspondence between Painter and professors, colleagues, students, friends, and family over the course of her career.
Arranged in chronological order by year, month, and, in some places, day. Where possible, Painter's own system of labeling has been retained, which accounts for some overlap in dates across folders. Materials from the mid to late 1990s and early 2000 often have been divided into the categories professional,business, and personal as Painter saw fit, and the folders containing these materials have been so labeled along with the year and, at times, month. Printed electronic correspondence was largely separated by Painter from traditionally-formatted letters when it first began to appear in the mid-1990s and has been retained in her folders; after a few years, however, she began to treat e-mail as any other correspondence and by 2002 was interfiling items regardless of how they originated.
Processing and retrieval note for 2008 and 2010 accessions: There have been two substantial expansions of this subseries since the collection was originally processed in 2006. Materials from Accession 2008-0016 were integrated into the subseries chronologically but not physically, meaning that newer box numbers will sometimes appear out of strict numerical sequence. Materials from Accession 2010-0116 were processed minimally, and can be found appended at the end of this inventory. Researchers are advised to examine all these points when seeking to retrieve all correspondence from a particular period of time, especially materials dated 1997 or later.
Correspondence between Painter and professors, colleagues, students, friends, and family over the course of her career. Many of the same correspondents may also appear in the Chronological Subseries. Arranged alphabetically, mainly by personal surname but also by names of organizations and topical names assigned by Painter. Correspondence with family and some close friends may appear under their individual names but also under the categories Family, Family and Friends, and Intimates.
Correspondence with current and former students, including some undergraduates but mainly graduate students and masters and doctoral advisees. Contains many attached writings, proposals, resumes, and requests for references. Many of the same correspondents may also appear in the Chronological Subseries. Arranged alphabetically.
Correspondence between Painter and Nellie Y. McKay, who met in 1969 when both were first-year graduate students at Harvard (Painter in history, McKay in English). McKay went on to become a professor of American and African-American Literature and published important works on Toni Morrison and Jean Toomer among other writers. She spent most of her career at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Bulk of subseries consists of correspondence from McKay, but several years into the sequence many copies of Painter's letters begin to appear, too. Letters cover the personal and professional lives of both women, enriched by a variety of attachments, including drafts of writings, newspaper clippings about their careers and current events, promotional materials, snapshots, and sometimes copies of correspondence with third parties. Arranged chronologically, although researchers should note that Painter's original labeling on the folders is not always complete. Often the correspondence inside the folders covers a longer span of months than she indicated; this has been amended in pencil, but items were not shifted between or within folders, so contiguous folders should be examined for particular weeks or months.
Writings, research materials, notes, and correspondence that document the genesis of Painter's major books and many articles, essays, and reviews. Contains significant amounts of correspondence with publishers, sources, and colleagues; articles and talks sent by colleagues; and copious notes and numerous photocopies of primary sources, including newspapers and government records. There are also many drafts of Painter's talks and writings, including manuscripts, typescripts, and printer's proofs.
Arranged in eight subseries, the first six of which are based on five of Painter's major books: Exodusters: Black Migration to Kansas After Reconstruction (1976); The Narrative of Hosea Hudson: His Life as a Negro Communist in the South (1979); Sojourner Truth, A Life, A Symbol (1996); Standing at Armageddon: The United States, 1877-1919 (1987); Creating Black Americans: African American History and Its Meanings, 1619 to the Present (2005); and The History of White People (2010). Each subseries is further divided into three subgroups, Correspondence, Drafts, and Research Materials; see specific subseries notes for further detail about the arrangement and content of these categories for each book. Materials unrelated to these five books--or whose relationship to them could not be established--have been placed in one of the final two subseries, Other Research Topics or Writings by Others. Note that while all the subseries contain writings by other authors, the main criterion for placing materials in Writings by Others is that the folder contains only such writing. If a folder contains Painter's notes and commentary in addition to writings by other authors or contains works by multiple authors that Painter gathered under a topical heading, then they are placed in one of the first five subseries or in Other Research Topics. This subseries, the largest in the Writings and Research Series, is further divided into subgroups by topic; see its subseries note for further details on its arrangement.
Several types of documents that appear in this series are supported by related material in other series. Three are of particular note: correspondence, addresses, and writing by other authors. Much correspondence appears in various subseries in Writings and Research, and it addresses many of the same topics broached in the Correspondence Series; it can be searched alphabetically or chronologically according to the arrangement of the particular subseries. Drafts of Painter's addresses and articles have generally been placed in the Writings and Research Series--especially in the Other Research Topics Subseries--if the folders consist mainly of substantive drafts of the work or research on it; but other versions may also appear in the Engagements Subseries of the Professional Service Series. Finally, a substantial amount of writing by other authors, especially when those authors were current or former students or advisees of Painter's, appears in two other series. Most such material appears as attachments to letters in the Student/Candidate Files Subseries of the Correspondence Series; a smaller amount, in the form of drafts unattached to correspondence, appears at the end of the Teaching Materials Series, Academic Files Subseries.
As mentioned in the Collection Overview, the dating of folder titles is of particular note in this series due to the large volume of photocopies and microform printouts of archival and historical material. If the folder contains Painter's notes or quotations from a primary source, the date corresponds to the time Painter worked on the subject. If the folder contains an original source or photocopy of one (almost always the latter), the date corresponds to when the intellectual content was originally produced or published.
Documents Painter's survey of African American history, which uses black American art to illustrate the narrative. Consists mainly of typescript drafts of several chapters. Arranged alphabetically in the categories of Correspondence and Research, chronologically in Drafts.
Materials have been organized into three subgroups, Correspondence, Drafts, and Research Materials. Correspondence also includes book reviews. The Drafts subgroup consists of typescripts and printer's proofs. Related writings and speeches by Painter are organized with the research materials. The materials in the Correspondence and Research Materials subgroups are arranged alphabetically, while those in the Drafts subgroup are arranged chronologically. Because they lack precise date information, three typescripts and three printer's proofs have been labeled A to C. This labeling does not reflect any chronological ordering among those documents. In the Research Materials subgroup, articles by Painter are indicated by (NIP); writings by others are listed alphabetically by last name. The designations "(d)" and "(w)" she occasionally places after the names of certain newspapers indicate whether it was a daily or weekly publication, respectively.
Drafts of several chapters; also contains a lecture in which Painter addresses her themes and approaches in this work. These previously closed materials are now open following upon the book's publication in 2010.
Contains correspondence, readers' reports, drafts, interview transcripts, and research materials for The Narrative of Hosea Hudson: His Life as a Negro Communist in the South (1979), as well as related talks and articles by Painter.
Materials have been divided into three subgroups: Correspondence, Drafts, and Research Materials. The Correspondence subgroup largely consists of publication-related materials and correspondence between Painter and Hudson, which began in 1976 and lasted through 1982. Many of Hudson's letters contain newspaper articles that he routinely clipped, typed notes onto, and attached to the letter. Other items of note in the subgroup include readers' reports and Painter's replies to them and a letter of consignment for the Hudson interview tapes, which Painter donated to the Southern Oral History Program at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where they are housed in the Southern Historical Collection.
The Research Materials subgroup largely consists of materials used in verifying and annotating the text. Hudson's FBI file is of particular interest. Also contained are several interview transcripts and related articles and talks by Painter, including her talk at UNC, How I Wrote Hosea Hudson.
The materials contained in the Correspondence and Research Materials subgroups have been organized alphabetically. The folder titles for articles or talks by Painter begin with the work's title, followed by (NIP). Folder titles for works by other others are organized by author, last name first. The materials in the Drafts subgroup are organized chronologically.
Contains correspondence, reviews, photos, comments from readers, and research materials for Sojourner Truth: A Life, A Symbol (1996), as well as related talks and articles by Painter. Divided into three subgroups: Correspondence, Drafts, and Research Materials. The Correspondence subgroup includes materials regarding fellowships Painter received, reviews, photos, answers to questions regarding Sojourner Truth, publication information, and requests for others to review drafts of her chapters. These items have been ordered alphabetically.
Painter sent a number of typescript chapter drafts to other scholars. The Drafts subgroup largely consists of the drafts that these scholars returned, with their comments and suggestions. The majority of the drafts are of the first three chapters, but a few copies of chapters four and five are also included. These items have been organized chronologically.
The Research Materials subgroup largely consists of notes, articles, and photocopies of book chapters and letters. There are also a number of talks and articles by Painter in relation to Sojourner Truth. In particular, there are several folders with materials relating to the chapter Difference, Slavery, and Memory: Sojourner Truth in Feminist Abolitionism, which appeared in Jean Fagan Yellin and John C. Van Horne's The Abolitionist Sisterhood: Women's Political Culture in Antebellum America. At the time the materials in the collection were prepared, the chapter was known only by its subtitle and the book was called An Untrodden Path. Also of interest is an article by Richard Powell, which is related to a chapter in Sojourner Truth on photography and representations of Truth. Other materials relevant to this topic, particularly cartes de visite, are found in the Writings by Others Subseries and the Photography subgroup of the Other Research Topics Subseries. The Research Materials subgroup has been ordered alphabetically.
Consists of correspondence, drafts, related talks and writings, and extensive research materials related to Painter's work on Standing at Armageddon: The United States, 1877-1919 (1987). Divided into Correspondence, Drafts, and Research Materials subgroups.
Compared to other subseries, the Standing at Armageddon Subseries contains relatively little correspondence. The existing materials are largely publication-related. The correspondence with the Henry George School of Social Science includes a lesson plan and quiz questions on Standing at Armageddon. Related correspondence perhaps may be found in the Correspondence Series. The Drafts subgroup includes a manuscript, several typescripts, and two master proofs. The Research subgroup materials include photocopies of scholarly articles, newspaper articles, and Congressional records, as well as extensive notes from those materials and books. The subgroup also includes talks, reviews, and articles by Painter.
In addition to materials directly about the book, all materials in the Writings and Research Series involving the issues of labor, gender, and race, as they relate to the economic and political conditions of the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, have been incorporated into the Standing at Armageddon Subseries. The subseries also includes materials on the South that are relevant to the period addressed by Standing at Armageddon.
The correspondence and research materials are arranged alphabetically, while the drafts are arranged chronologically. Talks or articles by Painter have generally been identified by (NIP) following the work's title. As three typescripts of Standing at Armageddon lack any date information, they have been labeled A to C. This labeling does not reflect any chronological ordering among those typescripts. In addition, inasmuch as their dating is uncertain, those typescripts have been placed after the other typescripts in the subseries.
Consists of eleven subgroups: Black Nationalism, Civil Rights, Civil War, Ella Thomas, Gender and Sexuality, Historiography, Other Materials, Photography, Religion, Southern History (which includes a folder grouping on Reconstruction), and Walter White. The materials contained within these subgroups include photocopies of and notes from books and articles, as well as drafts of Painter's writings. Some related correspondence, as well as three fictional works of unknown origin, are also included. The materials in this subseries have been organized alphabetically.
Consists of materials on Martin Delany and on the various representations of Malcolm X.
Contains drafts and research materials on affirmative action, Jim Crow, the Equal Rights Amendment, Anita Hill and Lani Guinier, and voter fraud.
Beside materials on the Civil War, subgroup also includes materials on Frederick Douglass, slavery, and the Antebellum Period. Among the article drafts and research materials, the subgroup contains several photocopies of photographs.
Painter wrote the introduction for The Secret Eye: The Journal of Ella Gertrude Clanton Thomas, 1848-1889, which was edited by Virginia Burr. The Ella Thomas subgroup contains correspondence with Virginia Burr, book covers, typescripts of the diary, and typescripts and printer's proofs of the book.
The second largest subgroup in the Other Research Topics Subseries. Many of the materials focus on women in the American South, but they also examine abuse, including sexual abuse; the distinctions between one's identity as black, as a woman, and as a black woman; minority women as historians and scholars; and black women in relation to civil rights, voting, and affirmative action.
Materials that examine the practice of writing history, particularly biography, autobiography, social history, and oral history. A related work on how Painter produced the Narrative of Hosea Hudson is found in the Research Materials subgroup of the Hosea Hudson Subseries.
The largest subgroup in the Other Research Topics Subseries. Contains work that either did not fit within one of the other subgroups, or that was equally relevant to several topics. Includes materials that cover the general topics of racism and African-American history, as well as issues surrounding political correctness, race and money, and language. Of particular interest are the materials about the Somerset reunion, a reunion of all the families associated with a former slave plantation in North Carolina, and three fictional works of unknown origin.
Materials may relate to the numerous works on photography in the Other Research Topics Subseries, or to the topic of images in Sojourner Truth.
Materials may relate to the work on religion in either the Exodusters or Sojourner Truth Subseries.
Contains materials on the differences between African-American and Southern history; emancipation; the Ku Klux Klan; identity, blood and race; and Reconstruction. Because of the number of materials on Reconstruction, these have been organized into a group within Southern History. Many of the materials in this subgroup relate to a work on the South and identity that Painter proposed and researched, which she entitled American Views of the South. Although it was not written, some of the themes for this work are addressed in Painter's introductory essay for The Secret Eye, which was reprinted in Southern History Across the Color Line, as well as in Creating Black Americans and other essays in Southern History Across the Color Line.
Materials compiled by Painter while working in the late 1980s with one of her students, Leah Hagedorn, on a reprint edition (never published) of the novels of Walter White, an early 20th century African American author and chief executive of the NAACP from 1929-1935. Subgroup contains copies of correspondence to, from, and about White; copies of his newspapers columns, fiction manuscripts, and other writings; and Painter's original correspondence, drafts, and notes about White's life and work. Arranged alphabetically based on Painter's original folder titles; descriptive words such as "correspondence" and "photocopies" were added as needed to clarify folder contents.
Consists of drafts, published works, and lectures by family members, colleagues, and other individuals. Although Painter probably used these materials for her own research, they have been placed in the Writings by Others Subseries because they were unrelated to, or could not be particularly identified with, any of her major books. Moreover, they have not been included among the materials in the Other Research Topics Subseries, although they frequently include notes or marginalia by Painter, because Painter organized these materials in such a way that the work in each folder is primarily the work of a single author other than herself. Correspondence, including notes from those sending materials to Painter, can be found in some folders, and related material from some authors may also be found in the Correspondence Series.
Significant topics covered in the subseries include feminism, photography, and the history of photography. Other materials on photography are found in the Sojourner Truth Subseries and the Photography subgroup of the Other Research Topics Subseries. Of interest is a work by Painter's mother, Dona Irvin, about the members of Downs Memorial United Methodist Church. The work focuses on the lives of middle-class African-Americans rather than prominent figures or the underprivileged. Here entitled The Downs People, it was published as The Unsung Heart of Black America: A Middle-class Church at Midcentury.
Materials in the Writings by Others Subseries are arranged alphabetically by surname.
Documents Painter's work with students and academic colleagues at Harvard University, Wellesley College, the Universities of Pennsylvania and North Carolina, Hunter College, and Princeton University. Arranged in two subseries, Courses and Academic Files.
Contains syllabi, reading lists, class lectures, notes, class readings, notes, and some correspondence and miscellaneous other materials that Painter produced and gathered for courses she taught at Wellesley College, the Universities of Pennsylvania and North Carolina, Hunter College, and Princeton University. Copies of class readings include both printed material and typescripts transcribed from archival materials and microfilm; some contain Painter's notes and interpretations in margins or attached pages. Arranged in chronological order by year.
Departmental correspondence and memoranda, meeting minutes, university and department forms and invoices, printed materials, files on students for whom Painter served as advisor or committee member, student writings, and other materials. Arranged alphabetically by institution (Harvard, Princeton, University of North Carolina, University of Pennsylvania, and Wellesley College), then chronologically within those groups. At the end of the series are several folder groups that span Painter's years in various positions, arranged alphabetically by topic. The largest of these are Applications and Job Searches, containing correspondence and other documents relating to various positions and fellowships she sought at different times; and Student Writings, containing various papers, theses, and dissertations written by Painter's students. Note that student files gathered here are mainly writings that were found unattached to correspondence and represent only a fraction of such material; the bulk of her extensive correspondence with her students, including discussion and copies of their research and writing, is in the Correspondence Series.
Documents Painter's activities in the broader academic community beyond her university of employment and her personal connections. Arranged in two subseries, Organizations and Engagements.
Collects materials from more than one hundred professional organizations, conferences, foundations, committees and task forces, and editorial boards of journals and publishers with which Painter has worked during her career. Subseries is particularly rich with information about the work of organizations and publishers in the fields of American and African American history, American studies, Southern history, and women's studies. Materials include chronological files, conference programs, correspondence, e-mail, financial information, meeting minutes, membership lists, panel proposals, printed materials, questionnaires and surveys, and a variety of peer review materials written by Painter and others (the last mainly for UNC Press, but also for other organizations and journals). Arranged alphabetically by organization, then chronologically under each name.
Documents relating to Painter's addresses, speeches, and honors at some three hundred conferences, meetings, and symposia over the course of three decades. Although drafts of some of these presentations appear here, most of the substantive drafts have been placed in the Writings and Research Series. This subseries is more a record of what topics she spoke on, what occasioned the event, and with what organizations she has interacted throughout her career. Arranged chronologically.
Contains information about Painter's personal life and, to a lesser extent, her family and her professional career. Materials include copies of her curricula vitae through the years; awards and honors; biographical citations about her from various reference works; clippings; appointment calendars and telephone logs; information about a number of family members, especially her parents; class notes and other documents from her student years abroad in Ghana and France; and over three dozen of her personal journals. By far, the journals are the most substantive item in the series in both richness and quantity of information. In more than five thousand manuscript pages Painter records details of her personal and professional life and her thoughts about her writing for almost thirty years, up to 1989; there then follows a gap of nine years before the journals resume in 1998, though in considerably less detail. Arranged alphabetically by category in the following folder groups: Biographical, Calendars and Contacts, Family and Friends, Journals, Student Years, and Other Personal Papers. Folders are then arranged chronologically in those categories with the exception of the alphabetical arrangements of Family and Friends and Other Personal Papers.
Journal for 1961 Dec. includes sketchbook. Journal for 1969-1970 includes photographs from 1963 and 1971.
Contains approximately 1000 black-and-white photographs, 1900 color photographs, 170 35mm slides, and several hundred negatives. Predominantly made up of reproductions Painter used as part of her research for various writings and a wide variety of original, personal snapshots. Arranged in three subseries related to major series in the main body of the collection: Writings and Research Images, Professional Service Images, and Personal Photographs and Negatives. In addition, there are also three format groups that have been separated from the three intellectual series and housed separately based on the archival needs of the materials in question: Large Prints,Negatives, and Photograph Albums.
Contains approximately 160 black-and-white photographs, nine color photographs, eight 35mm slides, and a few negatives. There are a few original photographs, most notably a carte-de-visite of Soujourner Truth, but the majority mainly consists of reproductions from various state archives and the Library of Congress that Painter used as part of her research fopr various writings. Much of the material appears to be research for Exodusters and, to a lesser extent, The Narrative of Hosea Hudson, but other writings are also represented. Arranged in chronological order. Prints 8x10 and larger are housed separately in flat boxes and follow the main list in a separate chronological sequence, with negatives for a few of the prints at the end of the subseries.
Processor's note: three contact sheets with no positive identification other than place, but posters of individual Greensboro Five members and the presence of armored vehicles in some photographs indicate that this is likely the funeral for victims of the riot of November 3, 1979. See also possibly related material under "Ku Klux Klan, Greensboro, 1979" in Writings and Research Series, Other Research Topics Subseries, Southern History Subgroup.
Contains approximately eleven black-and-white photographs, 125 color photographs, forty 35mm slides, and a few negatives from various of Painter's speaking engagements, conferences, and other professional trips. Arranged in chronological order. Prints 8x10 and larger are housed separately in flat boxes and follow the main list in a separate chronological sequence, with negatives for some of the snapshots at the end of the subseries.
Contains approximately 830 black-and-white photographs, 1730 color photographs, one hundred twenty-two 35mm slides, and many negatives. Consists mainly of personal snapshots taken by Painter and her family and friends. There are several early photographs of family members, including a 1914 print of her mother's family in Texas. After the late 1970s there are also a number of formal portraits and publicity photographs of Painter (noted as "NIP"). Arranged in two chronological sequences: additions to this subseries received in accession 2008-0016 were so extensive as to render impractical the virtual interfiling technique used throughout the rest of this finding aid. Therefore boxes 229-231 contain the personal photographs received in 2006 and earlier, and boxes 275-278 contain those received in 2008. Note that the more recently received group is not only larger but also covers a longer span of years, beginning earlier and ending later.
Image is adhered to glass; handle with care. Filed at the end of the box of folders.
Prints, mainly 8x10 inches, were separated from the three photographic materials subseries in order to provide flat storage. Some smaller related prints, especially older ones, are housed with these. For more information about intellectual content, consult the respective subseries notes above. Some materials were damaged by water.
Format group consisting of negatives generally related to the three photographic materials subseries. Many of the negatives were housed separately when received and cannot be matched item-for-item to the prints without extensive further work. For more information about intellectual content, consult the respective subseries notes above.
Albums contain images and ephemera documenting the personal lives of Painter and her family and friends. Some albums were disbound for preservation reasons; these are housed upright in the main subseries above, with their album source indicated as part of the folder title.
Audio and video recordings made by or about Painter, including interviews she conducted as part of research and interviews of her on various television programs. Arranged in two subseries by format: Audio Materials and Video Materials. Total running time (TRT) is shown in parentheses if known.
Contains mainly interviews, some conducted by Painter and some from other sources, and a few recordings of Painter's speaking engagements. Recording formats consist of reel to reel tapes, audiocassettes, and compact discs. Arranged chronologically within each format.
Contains tapes of Painter's speaking engagements, interviews of her on programs from C-SPAN and other sources, and various commercial or academic productions with which she was involved. Recording formats consist of VHS videocassettes and digital video discs (DVD). Arranged chronologically within each format.
Digital files, mostly unidentified beyond general categories. It is likely that most of this material is already represented in the collection in printed form. Consists mainly of correspondence and drafts of writings by Painter, including material associated with her books Standing at Armageddon: The United States, 1877-1919 (1987), Sojourner Truth, A Life, A Symbol (1996), and Creating Black Americans (2005). Arranged in order in which disks were received and numbered; disks 026-142, received in Accession 2008-0016, have been grouped by format, but otherwise arranged as received. Unnumbered diskettes may also appear in Accession 2010-0116, listed at the end of this inventory.
Various items removed from most of the major series in the main body of the collection to be housed separately. Arranged according to original series and subseries.
Awards and honorary degrees from American Academy of Arts and Sciences, American Antiquarian Society, Dartmouth College, and others.
Contains correspondence, manuscripts, notebooks, and some photographs of Ghanaian novelist and poet Ayi Kwei Armah. Arranged alphabetically in the following categories: Correspondence, Photographs, Writings and Research, and Writings by Others. Correspondence, the largest folder group, is arranged chronologically, though with much overlap of dates between folders.
Notes, notebooks, manuscripts, and typescripts of Armah's prose and poetry. Includes a typescript of his first published novel, The Beautyful Ones Are Not Yet Born (1968) and what may be a partial, unlabeled typescript of his second novel, Fragments (1970).
Includes some correspondence, prose, and poetry of Ghanaian author (Christina) Ama Ata Aidoo.
Accession 2010-0116 (dated from 1979-2010) is an unprocessed addition to the collection. Materials include correspondence, email correspondence, newspaper clippings, board notes, articles, journal articles, CDs with interviews, photographs, notebooks, and other material.
Accession 2011-0173 (dated from 2010-2011) is minimally processed addition to the collection. Materials include correspondence, email correspondence, and other miscellaneous printed material. Consists of 4 boxes, each 0.5 lin. ft. Correspondence may need to be screened before use (see restrictions filed in CCF). Please consult with Research Services staff before coming to use this material.
Acceptance letter, information packet, and assignment.
Contains emails, postcards, and letters.
Contains emails, cards, letters, and postcards.
In The Journal of American History Vol. 93 No. 3.
5 letters. Authors include W.J. Stanford, Paul Stanford, P.G. [?] Stanford. Some signatures not legible.
Image titled "Fast Freight in Dixie." Sent from North Carolina to Georgia. Recipient not legible: Mrs. V.E. Dunday [?].
A Celebration of Thanksgiving and Praise for the Life of Joshua Clifford Theriot. June 20, 2008. Offprint of the Journal of Southern History with inscription from author, Anthony E. Kaye. August 2009: The Second Slavery: Modernity in the Nineteenth-Century South and the Atlantic World.
Nell Painter and Glenn Schafer pictured where they first met.
Documents from and for events in which Nell Painter participated.
Contains to-do lists.
Nametag and medal of achievement.
Presented to Nell Painter by The Black Alumni Club of the California Alumni Association.
Lecture poster (1988), "African Elegance" (1965, photocopy), Ghana Reconstructs (1964), The History of White People Design Proof (2009, accompanied by letter).
Accession 2015-0192 is a minimally processed addition to the collection. It includes correspondence, printed materials, files from Painter's speaking engagements and events, awards, realia, electronic media, and audiovsual materials.
Accession 2016-0112 (dated from 1999-2016) is a minimally processed addition to the collection. Addition contains files related to the creation of Painter's website, her teaching career, speaking engagements, as well as a draft of her memoir Old in Art School. Addition also contains electronic files. There are two folders of oversize materials, primarily consisting of posters from Painter's speaking engagements and events.
These files contain correspondence with the orginal publishers of reviews written by Nell Painter that she wished to reproduce on her website, www.nellpainter.com. Some folders contain photocopies of the reviews to be posted. Arranged sequentially by numbers provided by Painter.
These files contain correspondence with the original publishers of articles written by Painter that wished to reproduce on her website www.nellpainter.com. Some files also contain photocopies of the articles to be posted. Arranged sequentially by numbers provided by Painter.
Contains writings, articles, and clippings by and about Painter for her website.
Files contain materials from Painter's speaking engagements including the receipt of an honorary doctorate from UNC-Chapel Hill. Materials include correspondence, travel arrangements, speech drafts, and event ephemera.
Contains drafts of Painter's memoir "Old in Art School" and published articles.
Miscellaneous oversize materials including event posters, certificates, honorary degrees, and calendars.
Artist journals include plans for paintings, with mockups.
Includes plaques, diplomas, clippings, correspondence, speeches, and her book, Old in Art School along with associated publicity.
Includes correspondence, papers, awards, and other materials.
This accession largely consists of material related to the professional activities of Nell Painter (conferences, talks, awards, etc.) during 2019, personal correspondence and documents, and journals.
These are typed reproductions of the letters.
6 floppy disks with content related to lectures, texts, and a beauty prospectus.
Mostly correspondence with a few essay drafts.
Mostly correspondence, notes, and essay drafts.
Mostly correspondence, notes, and photographs.
Mostly correspondence.
Collection comprises two letters (1864 January 3 and 1865 October 13) Phebe Ann Palmer wrote to unidentified recipients. Topics include the weather, health of family members, visitors and visiting, the local school teachers, the Clinton County Fair, the Civil War and its related deaths and sacrifices. She added at one point "I have told you all the gossip I know," and she writes at length about her thoughts and feelings regarding other people and situations.
The collection (01-108) (160 items, 1.2 linear feet; dated 1825-1970s) includes the family Bible; correspondence to and from members of the three families; graphic materials; printed material; poetry; and typescripts of essays regarding family members' daily lives and work as missionaries in China, Japan, and Africa. The families mentioned are ancestors of Olive Sherertz Lanham (Duke '43). Includes 2 color prints, 5 black-and-white prints, and 2 albumen prints.
The addition (01-146) (375 items, .6 linear feet; dated 1898-1977) contains letters; reports; diary entries; genealogical information; 1 videocassette; 2 black-and-white photographs, 1 black-and-white print, and 1 albumen print. There are also other items, chiefly relating to the Park, Lambuth, and Sherertz families' life and work in China and Japan.
The 2002 addition (02-179) (100 items, .2 lin. ft.; dated 1825-1981 and n.d.) consists primarily of memoirs and correspondence documenting the families' ancestry and experiences in China and Japan (1825-1981 and n.d.). Also includes newspaper clippings about family members.
The 2004 addition (07-080) (375 items, 0.6 lin. ft; dated circa 1890-1989 and undated) contains letters, biographical sketches of family members, clippings, writings, and photographs documenting the members of the Park, Lambuth, and Sherertz families. Materials range in date from circa 1890 to 1989. Description of Sherertz's experience working in Pootung University in a Japanese internment camp, ca. 1940
Includes record of births (1830-1889 and 1858-1951), marriages (1853-1919 and 1943-1964), and deaths (1863-1965).
Addition (02-179) (100 items, .2 lin. ft.; dated 1825-1981 and n.d.) consists primarily of memoirs and correspondence documenting the families' ancestry and experiences in China and Japan (1825-1981 and n.d.). Also includes newspaper clippings about family members.
The 2004 addition (07-080) (375 items, 0.6 lin. ft; dated circa 1890-1989 and undated) contains letters, biographical sketches of family members, clippings, writings, and photographs documenting the members of the Park, Lambuth, and Sherertz families. Materials range in date from circa 1890 to 1989.
The collection includes sixteen diaries (1849 Oct. 1 to 1872 Dec. 31) kept by Margaret Paton, beginning seven months after her marriage and continuing with little interruption for twenty-three years. She chiefly records her thoughts and moods, how she spends her days, and various events such as the marriages and deaths of persons she knows. Many entries include information about her husband's activities and to a lesser degree her relationship with him. While sometimes recording events of national significance, she primarily focuses on private life and events at a local level.
The John Paver Papers span the years 1920 through 1979, with the bulk of the collection dating from 1938 through the year 1971. The collection documents Paver's career in the outdoor advertising industry, especially his years as president of the National Outdoor Advertising Bureau (NOAB), and his work writing a textbook on the outdoor advertising medium. Series include the Biographical Files Series; Writings and Speeches Series; NOAB Files Series; Subject Files Series; Personal Files Series; Miscellaneous Files Series; Photographs, Negatives, and Slides Series; and Oversize Materials. Researchers interested in the following subjects may find this collection especially helpful: management in the advertising industry, more specifically the outdoor advertising industry; the outdoor medium itself; and traffic and advertising. Common formats in the collection include paper files such as correspondence, meeting minutes, writings, memoranda, printed materials; and photographic prints and negatives. The Resource for Outdoor Advertising Descriptions (ROAD) database, which holds searchable information about the images in this and other outdoor advertising collections will be available in early 2003.
Paver was instrumental in the establishment of standards for traffic measurement and, later, standards and the quality of billboards, topics all reflected in each of the collection's series, especially the Writings and Speeches Series, the NOAB Files Series, and the Subject Files Series. He pioneered research determining the relationship between traffic or habitual movement and trade activities. This work culminated in the publication, Traffic and Trade (McGraw-Hill, 1935), co-authored with research associate Dr. Miller McClintock, and in the founding of the industry authority for measuring outdoor advertising circulation, the Traffic Audit Bureau (TAB). His contributions in the area of window display (show windows) advertising, and, more generally, the outdoor medium are significant as well; all are documented within the collection. A large part of his career was spent in service to the National Outdoor Advertising Bureau before and after World War II; he led the organization for about seventeen years and became a prominent figure in the outdoor advertising industry. The papers document well Paver's work on an outdoor advertising textbook through draft copies and research materials. Through this activity, Paver grew to become a respected authority on poster and painted display advertising in the United States, and served as a speaker and consultant in the last years of his life. For more detailed information about Paver's life and career, see the Biographical Note above as well as the Biographical Files Series. All collection series are further described within the container list.
At the end of this finding aid is a list of publications removed from the collection and cataloged separately. Closely related collections in the David M. Rubenstein Rare Book & Manuscript Library include the John Brennan Papers, the John Browning Papers, the Duplex Advertising Co. Records, the H.E. Fisk Collection of War Effort Mobilization Campaigns, the Outdoor Advertising Association of America Records, the Outdoor Advertising Poster Design Collection, the Outdoor Advertising Slide Library, the Garrett Orr Papers, the R.C. Maxwell Company Records, the Howard Scott Papers, and the Strobridge Lithography Company Photographs.
(See also Legal Size Materials)
The Biographical Files Series (1942-1969) includes narratives typed and printed primarily for publication. Paver apparently wrote and rewrote the information in many different forms to suit individual purposes. Some documents include details of his work and military experience (U.S. Air Force), athletic experience, work performed for NOAB, as well as résumés, and letters of congratulation and recommendation, including items from Miller McClintock, J. Walter Thompson advertising executive Norman Strouse, and others. A publicity file holds articles and other printed materials containing various blurbs about Paver.
(See also Legal Size and Oversize Materials)
The Writings and Speeches Series (1923-1972) contains a mix of document formats. Much of the correspondence, memoranda, printed materials, and other non-manuscript items are presumed to relate to the drafts with which they are foldered--probably as research materials. The majority of the items in this series are draft pieces of Paver's planned textbook on the outdoor advertising medium, mostly in holograph (handwritten) or typescript formats, although the book was never published. Book segment titles were distinguished or subjects were assigned to folders wherever possible. The series is divided into two subseries, Writings and Speeches by Paver, and Writings and Speeches by Others. Paver's materials are further subdivided into three groups: (1) files created for his textbook, (2) speeches by Paver, and (3) miscellaneous writings by Paver. Writings and Speeches by Others contains far fewer items, but has similar groupings within it. Photographic materials from this series and all others have been removed to the Photographs, Negatives, and Slides Series. Photocopies of most photographs were left in original order to preserve context.
Paver's textbook files are evidence of his efforts to create a comprehensive introduction and analysis of the outdoor medium. Folders with title- or subject-identified materials make up the initial alphabetical run. These are most often typescripts with holograph edits, but there are some holograph manuscripts as well. Included are long descriptions of both subjects and organizations such as "the advertising agency," the Advertising Council, the National Outdoor Advertising Bureau, the Traffic Audit Bureau, the Outdoor Advertising Association of America, the American Association of Advertising Agencies, the Advertising Research Foundation, techniques of buying, art creation, writing advertising copy, market coverage, painted displays, public relations, and more general topics such as " Outdoor Advertising in the US."
The next alphabetical run within Paver's textbook files contains items comparable to the alphabetical by subject group, but is ordered by genre/book part. It includes portions Paver labeled as the appendix, illustrations, and more. There are traffic flow graphs and a glossary of industry terms helpful for the novice advertiser. In addition, there are outlines, questionnaire results, and a large number of manuscript fragments. Similar to the previous group, these files describe outdoor advertising in detail, but also highlight its importance in the world with fragments such as one titled, "Posters as a Visual Aid in Projecting America's Image to the World." Paver compared the medium to others, wrote about industry changes and outdoor advertising abroad, and discussed industry research.
Paver's speeches reveal his broad knowledge of the outdoor advertising industry; he spoke on the medium in general as well as on more specific topics like traffic measurement. This group of materials is evidence of his many speaking engagements in his home state of Texas, as well as abroad for the British Poster Advertising Association and the Outdoor Advertising Association of Australia. Paver also presented to organizations such as state outdoor advertising associations, and to smaller groups including a student women's advertising club. A number of the speeches were obviously connected to his work with the National Outdoor Advertising Bureau or were at least given during his employment there.
Miscellaneous writings by Paver, some going back to the beginnings of his advertising career, include files regarding his college thesis on transportation in Chicago, and Traffic and Trade Research Report, a work completed at Harvard, 1934. There is a broader picture of the man in drafts of his World War II experiences and family history.
(See also Legal Size Materials)
Paver likely used these materials in his research and writings on the industry. Authors include advertising executives Norman Strouse and Kerwin Fulton. Topics such as advertising leasing, criticism and other problems facing the industry, advertising and war, NOAB, personnel, and European outdoor advertising are discussed. The files are primarily arranged alphabetically by author.
(See also Legal Size and Oversize Materials)
The National Outdoor Advertising Bureau (NOAB), ca. 1919-1970, the organization with which Paver is most closely associated, was created to help advertisers obtain recognition by billboard owners and to handle arrangements for outdoor advertising. These files date from 1925 through 1968. NOAB was a cooperative organization owned exclusively by the advertising agency members and helped them with all phases of an outdoor campaign. Paver assumed leadership of the agency in 1945, and by 1958 it placed over $70 million in contracts for painted displays, billboards, and other outdoor advertising. He directed the organization for about seventeen years, a time span reflected within the collection, but his time working for the NOAB Field Service Office in the late 1930s is also represented. The papers document his years of leadership through a variety of formats including minutes of NOAB's executive committee from 1950 through the time of his retirement. He represented NOAB through correspondence and multiple speaking engagements, serving often as a cheerleader promoting the industry. The series is arranged alphabetically by subject, revealing information about his travels abroad, contract and policy information, the industry's view of NOAB, Paver's specific duties, poster rates and evaluation, and work for Standard Oil. Particular attention is paid to the Traffic Audit Bureau (TAB) which Paver helped to establish and later defend. TAB became the industry's body to measure circulation of outdoor advertising and is still in existence. Included also are several manuals, some printed materials and other items about or related to NOAB.
(See also Legal Size and Oversize Materials)
The Subject Files Series (1920-1972) is arranged alphabetically by topic, proper name, or title, and contains a mix of formats including printed materials, writings, correspondence, and maps. Many folders appear to be collections of research materials for his writing, and all pertain to his professional activities although not always purely outdoor advertising. There are files relating to his window study performed in Allentown, Pa., traffic information for parts of his home state of Texas, auto safety and registration, his writing and publication plans, the "Bull Penn" professional organization, Canadian outdoor advertising, costs, advertising coverage, an international conference, Paver's traffic counting invention (Paver-Sills Traficounter), parking, Paver's work with research associate Leon Quera, awareness of outdoor advertising, regulation of the industry, billboard structure, traffic engineering and safety. Correspondents include the British Poster Advertising Association and other prominent industry figures such as Ben Egan, Karl Eller (Eller Media), and T. Walter Tyrrell.
(See also Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Seattle)
(See also small round box within box 19)
(See also Allentown, Pa., and London-Canada)
(See also Legal Size and Oversize Materials)
The Personal Files Series (1943-1979) reveals a wide breadth of activity beyond Paver's professional duties. Materials document relationships with family members as well as connections to such organizations as the Freemasons, Paver's church, and the Chicago Athletic Association. Most prominent is documentation of his time spent raising orchids, including newsletters, photographs, and correspondence with the American Orchid Society.
(See also Legal Size and Oversize Materials)
The Miscellaneous Files Series contains additional materials for all of the previous series including speeches, professional correspondence, personal wartime correspondence, writings, printed materials, and clippings. These originally loose items were placed in unsorted folders for protection, but at the time of processing, resources were unavailable for item-level identification and sorting. Topics include outdoor advertising in the U.S. and abroad; traffic safety, circulation, and engineering; biographical materials; TAB, OAAA, and NOAB; military orders and service during WWII; outdoor advertising construction, product name recall, reach and frequency; costs; the "Bull Penn;" and orchids.
The Photographs, Negatives, and Slides Series (ca. 1920s-1970) contains over 300 items, pulled together from all other parts of the collection. A few photographs are from the 1920s, but the majority appear to have been taken in the 1950s and 1960s.They document a great deal of outdoor advertising mounted in that era, and also provide evidence of other areas of Paver's life such as his garden work. Most are undated (color or black and white) photographs of outdoor advertising, especially billboards, but there are also a large number of portraits of Paver from the 1940s and 1950s. Some photographs show advertising artwork and artists at work on large painted displays, and some seem to form part of an office presentation. Other photograph subjects include office workers demonstrating particular activities; business gatherings of various sorts; advertising in Paris and an Asian city (perhaps in Japan), and a wedding gathering. Around 40 photographs show Paver's pool area, where he worked with and displayed his collection of orchids.
More detailed information about all photographs, slides, and negatives were entered into the Resource for Outdoor Advertising Descriptions (ROAD) database which will be available in early 2003. The database has the following information fields: image number, dates, image type, product category, company, product/brand, headline, advertisement type, posting company, image color, rural or city scene, ethnicity of some individuals, presence of women/children, famous persons, city, state, non-advertisement type, and additional notes.
[ROAD Database Numbers: PAV0001-PAV0202]
[ROAD Database Numbers: PAV0203-PAV0326]
The Legal Size Materials include items from all of the other series, except Photographs, Negatives, and Slides.
(alphabetical by subject, and then by book segment)
The Oversize Materials include items from all of the other series, except the Biographical Files Series, and the Photographs, Negatives, and Slides Series.
This collection of heterogeneous material, generally relating to the colonial period of Peru, falls roughly into three groups centering around commerce and industry, literary activity, and religious and social history. Several manuscripts in the first group contain information on the mining of mercury, 1786-1787. Literary materials include the poems of Caviedes in the seventeenth century script useful for correcting errors in the copies published by Ricardo Palma; a copy of iconoclastic and mysterious poems by Antonio de Solís; one cuaderno of the Documentos históricos collected by Manuel de Odriozola; and three Documentos literarios from contemporary publications. Among the Items relating to religion and social history are a compilation of the papers of Peruvian viceroys and others, 1580-1818; an expediente concerning witchcraft and idolatry in Peru; original papers on the modernization of learning which Charles III attempted to impose upon the empire; copy of the proceso of Mariano Tupac Amaru; and a booklet, 1794, describing the founding and development of Quito, Ecuador.
Some of these Items, formerly the property of Manuel de Odriozola, the Peruvian literary historian who brought together this collection, are listed in the Cátalogo de la Biblioteca Peruana Propiedad de Dn. Francisco Perez de Velasco (Lima, 1918). Rubén Vargas Ugarte, S. J., describes some of these manuscripts in Manuscritos Peruanos en las Bibliotecas de América (Buenos Aires, 1945, pp. 230-243) which is volume IV of his Biblioteca Peruana (Lima, 1935-). John Tate Lanning, James B. Duke Professor of History, also mentioned these manuscripts in his article "The Hispanic Collection" published in Gnomon, Essays for the Dedication of the William R. Perkins Library (Duke Unlversity, April 15 and 16, 1970).
This guide to the collection is the result of extensive recataloging in which, for the first time, considerable attention has been given to analyzing the content of the manuscripts. The descriptions of many of the manuscripts have been enlarged, and, in some cases, author and title information has been changed or refined. Many entries have been added to the card catalog based upon these new descriptions. Copies of these cards have been included in this guide in order to provide additional means of access to the contents of the collection.
n. p., n. d. 50 folios.
A hypothetical dialogue between nature and her son.
Caracas, 1765-1770. 72 pages.
Petition, auto, and testimonials concerning the purity of race (limpieza de sangre) of Francisco Montero Bolaños de los Reyes. Caracas, 1765-1770.
The purity of race (limpieza de sangre) was documented by testimonials demonstrating that the person was not a descendant of Moors, Jews, heretics, or penitenciados (persons punished by the Inquisition). This documentation was a prerequisite in Spain and its colonies in order to be admitted into a corporation, school or university, to practice a profession, or a trade, and to get married. A law of May 16, 1865, abolished this requirement for marriage and for admission into the public service, and it was definitively abolished by the 27th article of the 1869 Constitution, and the 15th article of the 1876 Constitution (in force).
This manuscript is an important source for the study of social or economic discrimination against racial or ethnic groups in Spain and its colonies till the end of the XIX century.
1787. 19 folios.
This original manuscript is an important source of information on mercury production in the Huancavelica Dept. and in the province of Huarochiri, Peru. Information about the dates of arrival and departure from the warehouses, the weight, value, geographical source, and name of owners or shippers of the mercury are specified. Reports appear throughout the year, and a summary of figures for the year is given.
1700. 188 folios.
This expediente contains two royal cédulas issued by Charles III and Charles IV, kings of Spain and the Indies. One cédula was issued on June 25, 1783, at Aranjuéz, and the other, on Oct. 9, 1789, at San Lorenzo del Real. In both cédulas, the Bishop of Trujillo in Peru, Don Baltasar J. Martinez Compañón, is ordered not to relent on his work of converting the Indians into the Christian faith. This expediente also contains an edict of the Bishop and correspondence between him and others under his jurisdiction in relation to the same matter (ff. 1-10). This manuscript is notable because most of its contents are the original records of a trial for witchcraft and idolatry conducted against Salvador Bautista, Nicolás Bautista, Julián Bautista, Margarita Chuquipul (Salvador's wife), Petrona Huilca (Nicolás's wife), and María Paysic. Juán de Roxas, priest and vicar of the Doctrina of Atún Luya, was the acting judge and Blas de la Encidna was the acting notary (ff. 11-188). The trial began on Feb. 28, 1789, and the last record dated was July 9, 1790. It took place at the asiento of San Juán de Lamúd, but the defendants were from San Pedro de Cuemal. Between March 3 and May 11, 1789, 55 witnesses were examined; they were relatives and neighbors of the defendants and almost all of them certified their depositions (ff. 15-120). Confessions were taken from the defendants (ff. 120-150), and the prosecution and the defense presented their petitions (ff. 151-156). The sentence was pronounced on June 3, 1789 (ff. 157-158). The Royal Justice sentenced Salvador and Nicolás Bautista and Maria Paysíc to be whipped through the streets over a packsaddle, with a coronet on their heads and their backs naked. Petrona Huilca, Margarita Chuquipul, and Julián Bautista were sentenced to be feathered, to wear a coronet on their heads, and to serve as shield-bearers of the other offenders, their punishment being left to the discretion of the executioner. While the sentence was publicly performed, all the idols and instruments used by the defendants in their rites were thrown into a bonfire. Immediately they were expatriated to the Province of Caxamarca, confined to a house of correction in perpetuity, and obliged to do hard work with rations but without salary for a landowner who would provide them with the necessary prisons until their death. Their houses were demolished and exorcised, and great crosses were placed on the lots and on the caves, rocks, and temples they had used for their rites.
The expediente includes the estimates of the cost of the trial (f. 165), the inventory, valuation, and the sale by public auction of the properties of Salvador and Nicolás Bautista (ff. 166-184), as well as the accounts of the trustees, with credits and debits (ff. 185-188).
Lima, Perú, 1780-1783. 372 folios.
Typescript from the original in a volume of Manuscritos varios desposited in the Archivo Nacional del Perú, containing testimonies on the trial for relapse into rebellion, against Mariano Tupac Amaru and Andrés Mendigure, son and nephew of José Gabriel Túpac Amaru, leader of the Indian insurrection against the Spaniards in Perú during 1780-1781. These testimonies are not a complete record of the trial. They are divided into six cuadernos and one expediente with a total of 372 consecutive folios. The half title is Rebelión de Túpac Amaro. Tomo. I. The cuadernos contain correspondence between the Viceroy Agustín Jaureaui, the Bishop of Cuzco, members of the Túpac Amaru family, and other civilian, military and religious dignataries, in relation to the Túpac Amaru Insurrection. The cuadernos also contain depositions of witnesses on the trial against Mariano Túpac Amaru and Andrés Mendigure. The expediente contains the claims of José Antonio Escale, Relator de la Real Sala del Crimen, and Clemente Castellanos, Escribano of the same court, requesting to be paid for their work on the trial against Mariano Túpac Amaru and Andrés Mendigure. Túpac Amaru and Mendigure were sentenced to expartiation in Spain, the first died during the trip, and Mendigure perished in a shipwreck off the coast of Portugal. For further information see: La rebelión de Túpac Amaru by Daniel Valcárcel Esparza, Mexico, 1947 (p. 167-168).
Lima Perú, 1780-1783. 364 p., 249-333 p.
Typewritten copy from the original in a volume of manuscript documents deposited in the Biblioteca y Archivo Nacional, Lima, Perú. Bound in a book entitled Rebelión de Tupac Amaru, Tomo II (313 folios).
These confidential documents contain correspondence between the Viceroy Agustín Jauregui, and some members of the Túpac Amaru family, and also with military, ecclesiastical and civilian dignataries. Included are also other records of the trial against Mariano Túpac Amaru and Andrés Mendigures. It is a valuable source of information for researchers interested in the study of the Túpac Amaru insurrection in Perú.
n. p. Typescript, n. d. 178 folios.
This volume is an incomplete typescript copy of MS. No. 5 containing only information as far as page 305 of MS. No. 5A.
Lima, Perú, 1780. [1], 173 p.
Negative microfilm of typed copy in the Bancroft Library, University of California, Berkeley.
Motives or reasons of the insurrection of the Indians of high Perú under the leadership of Don José Gabriel Túpac-Amaru Casique de Tunga-Suca.
Transferred to Newspapers and Microfilms Department.
v. p., 1547-1548. Pages 378-505.
Transcripts of a collection of 19 letters, 1547-1548, written during the rebellion of Gonzalo Pizarro in Perú (1546-1548) by Pedro de la Gasca (1493-1567), Gonzalo Pizarro (1502-1548), Philip II (1527-1598) as Prince, Lorenzo de Albana (d. 1571), and Diego Cepeda (d. 1550). These letters were transcribed in a very legible hand and are related to Gonzalo Pizarro's rebellion that ended with his defeat and execution as a traitor to King Charles V by Pedro de la Gasca at Xaquixaguana, Perú, on April 10, 1548.
Perú, 1849-1857. 103 folios.
Selections of poetry assembled by Odriozola consisting chiefly of sonnets, several lyrics, and some burlesque forms. This volume includes: a sonnet of the Spanish poet Francisco de Miranda y Vengóa (d. 1857); some poems published by El Comercio (1845) and signed by Z., apparently the pseudonym of the Peruvian poet Felipe de Pardo y Aliaga (1806-1868); a short story published by La Bolsa (1841) and written by Manuel Ascencio Segura (1805-1871), another Peruvian author; a poem of the famous Colombian poet Rafael Pombo (1833-1912) published at Lima by El Heraldo on Jan. 5, 1856, under the pseudonym Edda, and some other poems written by unknown writers.
Perú, 1837. 56 ff., [1] f., index.
This volume also includes: some poems of Felipe Pardo Aliaga (1806-1868); a short poem adapted to music (letrilla) written by Manuel Ascencio Segura (1805-1871); a ballad by an anonymous author; and a poem of José Joaquín Larriva (1780-1832).
Manuscript 7a does not have Odriozola's name on it. It is attributed to him by Perez de Velasco in his Catalogo de la Biblioteca Peruana (p. 141). In addition, the handwriting of No. 7a is similiar to that in No. 7 and in other manuscripts that have Odriozola's name as their compiler.
Perú. ff. 24-54, [1] f., index.
The majority of the poems in this volume were transcribed from the initial issues of El Mercurio Peruano (1791). Included are copies of décimas (a Spanish stanza consisting of ten verses of eight syllables), one octava (a poetical composition of eight lines of eleven syllables) written by the Peruvian poet F. M. Miranda at Trujillo, Perú, in Feb., 1836, letters between Heloise and Abelard, and a few poetical works by unknown writers.
Manuscript 7b does not have Odriozola's name on it. It is attributed to him by Perez de Velasco in his Catalogo de la Biblioteca Peruana (p. 141). In addition, the handwriting of No. 7b is similar to that in No. 7 and in other manuscripts that have Odriozola's name as their compiler.
Medellín, Colombia, 1953. 1 p.
Newspaper article by Dr. Fein in El Colombiano,Suplemento (May 3, 1953), on one of the poems in MS. No. 7 of the Peruvian Collection.
v. p., 1580-1818. 4 p., 182 folios.
Typewritten table of contents of the 31 manuscript documents bound in this volume. 4 p.
The manuscripts are listed below in the order of appearance in this volume. Each manuscript has its own pagination, if any.
1. Act siqned Oct. 24, 1580, by Viceroy Francisco de Toledo appointing Diego de Valero Corregidor of the Valley of Ica and its District, and commissioning Antonio Vadillo to take residence there. It is followed by the testimony of the oath given by Valero at Chincha on Nov. 13 of the same year. The appointment was limited to one year with a salary of 600 pesos. ff. 119-122.
2. Questionnaire. Questions that the Judge of Residence of the Villa de Santa and its Partido, Diego G. de Ocampo, will ask the witnesses giving deposition on the secret information against Francisco de Mendieta who has been Corregidor of that Partido and against his officers and ministers. Followed by instructions and ordinances for Corregidores signed by Viceroy Francisco de Toledo May 30, 1580. Followed by a testimonial that the instructions and ordinances were seen by the Justice and Regiment of the City of the Kings (Lima) July 1, 1580. And a testimonial that was also read to the Caciques and Principales of the town of Nuestra Señora del Rosario de Guarmey Aug. 15, 1580, translated by the Indian Antonio de Guamán. ff. 24-68.
3. Ordinances for Corregidores given at Seville on June 9, 1500, by King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella and enforced in Perú and signed by Viceroy Francisco de Toledo at the appointment of Gabriel de la Reguera as Corregidor of the city of León de Huánuco. ff. 1-24, [12] ff. undated
4. Act signed by Viceroy Garcia Hurtado de Mendoza on March 8, 1590, ordering the payment to surgeon Francisco Velázquez de Chavez from the funds of the community of the Repartimiento de Mama for the medical care given to the Indians during the epidemic of that region. 1 f.
5. Royal Cédula signed at Madrid on Dec. 5, 1603, by King Philip III commanding the Viceroy of Peru, Gaspar de Zuñiga Azevedo y Fonseca, Conde de Monterrey, to execute the order given to his predecessor, Viceroy Luis de Velasco, Marqués de Salinas, in relation to providing the needs of four Jesuit missionaries, residents in Santa Cruz de la Sierra. 1 f.
6. Decree signed by Viceroy Juán de Mendoza y Luna, Marqués de Montes Claros, on July 12, 1615, granting a loan of 8500 pesos to Gaspar Rodriguez de Castro from the funds paid by the Indians to the community. 1 f.
7. Royal Cédula signed at San Lorenzo on Aug. 27, 1617, by King Philip III confirming the Encomienda de Indios granted by the Viceroy of Peru, Juán de Mendoza y Luna, Marqués de Montes Claros, to Diego Peñalosa y Briceño for two generations, on condition that he contribute one-third of his profits to the royal funds of the city of Lima. 1 f.
8. Act by the Royal Audiencia of Lima presided over by and signed by Viceroy Luis Geronimo Fernandez de Cabrera y Bobadilla, Conde de Chinchón, on Sept. 6, 1633, granting loans of 374 pesos from the funds of the Indians of the Repartimiento de Lunaguana to Alonso de Torres Romero and to Luis Sánchez de Garro for the payment of their tribute from one-third of San Juan that year. 1 f.
9. Instructions signed by Viceroy Pedro de Toledo y Leiva, Marqués de Mancera, on Nov. 6, 1643, for the deposition of accounts and Residencia to be given by Pedro de Valladares, recently appointed Corregidor of the City of Piura. ff. 1-24
10. Act signed by Viceroy Pedro de Toledo y Leiva, Marqués de Mancera, on Aug. 17, 1644, commanding the Administrator of funds of the Censo de Indios de Lima to deliver to the Fiscal Protector de Naturales the amount of pesos written in the adjunct certificate. f. 29
11. Ordinances signed by Viceroy Pedro de Toledo y Leiva, Marqués de Mancera, on Aug. 27, 1644, directing Geronimo de Palma y Mayorga to observe and execute them while performing his duties as Justicia Mayor of the Province of Condesuyos. ff. 9-46.
12. Royal Cédula signed by King Charles II at Buen Retiro on Feb. 12, 1677, addressed to the Viceroy and to the members of the Royal Audiencia of Lima reminding them about the oath of secrecy and confidentiality to observe while performing their duties. Followed by the testimony that the Cédula was read during the May 16, 1678, meeting of the Real Acuerdo. 2 ff.
13. Letter signed by Queen Mariana at Madrid on Dec., 1665, addressed to the Archbishop of Lima requesting a donation for the Spanish government that was in dire economic straits. The last four lines were handwritten by the Queen who was the wife of King Philip IV and the mother of King Charles II. f. 324.
14. Letter of Censure signed by the Archbishop of Lima, Pedro de Villagómez, on Dec. 29, 1659, demanding the return of a sequestered slave. 1 f.
15. Letter of Censure signed by the members of the Cabildo Eclesiástico Metropolitano de Lima on March 18, 1672, asking for the return of 3,000 pesos taken from the home of Simón Vaez Enriquez. 1 f.
16. Decree signed by Viceroy Melchor de Navarra y Rocafull, Duque de la Palata, on July 19, 1689, granting a loan of 5,000 pesos from the funds of Caja de Censos to the funds of la Comunidad to repair damages at the Cathedral of Lima caused by the 1685 earthquake. 1 f.
17. Order of payment of the Real Audiencia de Lima presided over and signed by Viceroy Melchor de Navarra y Rocafull, Duque de la Palata, on Sept. 1, 1688, ordering the Caja de Censos to pay 125 pesos to the lawyer Francisco de Rojas y Acevedo for his services to that institution during 6 months. 1 f.
18. Letter of Censure signed by the Archbishop of Lima, Melchor de Liñán y Cisneros, on June 10, 1694, demanding the return of a sequestered black slave to her owner, Fabián de Viñas y Coca. 1 f.
19. A decree signed by the Archbishop of Lima, Melchor de Liñán y Cisneros, on March 23, 1691. Archbishop Cisneros was Viceroy of Perú from 1678 to 1681 when he was replaced at the viceroyalty by the Duque de la Palata, but he remained in Lima as Archbishop and as a member of the Royal Council. 1 f.
20. Royal Cédula signed by King Philip V at Madrid on Feb. 19, 1714, demanding the Real Audiencia de Lima to see that the Juzgado de Bienes de Difuntos delivers all the properties that belonged to Fr. Pablo de Villanueva as ordered by the royal cédula. 1 f.
21. Seven letters signed by Viceroy José de Armendáriz, Marqués de Castelfuerte, addressed to the Corregidor de Canas y Canches, Miguel de Santistevan, between June, 1724, and July, 1732. 7 ff.
22. Royal Cédula signed by King Charles III at Aranjuéz on May 20, 1768, commanding the Tribunal de Cuentas (Court of Accounts) not to charge the Corregidores with Derecho de Tiras (cost of courts) for the arrangement of their accounts. 2 ff.
23. Act signed by Viceroy José de Armendáriz, Marqués de Castelfuerte, on Feb. 8, 1726, appointing Antonio de Luna Castañón to receive the testimonies on the trial against Antonio de Ugarte. ff. 121-122.
24. Official letter signed by Viceroy Teodoro de Croix on March 27, 1789, addressed to the Real Tribunal de Minería in relation to the awarding of a mine. 1 f.
25. Edict signed by the Archbishop of Lima, Juán Domingo González de la Reguera, about a chaplaincy (capellanía) founded by Francisco Girón Cabezas. Dated Aug. 27, 1789. 2 ff.
26. Official letter signed by Viceroy Francisco Gil y Lemus on March 18, 1791, addressed to the Real Acuerdo in relation to the tariff of duties on some sequestered lands. f. 39.
27. Official letter signed by Viceroy Ambrosio O' Higgins, Marqués de Osorno, on April 27, 1799, addressed to the Regente de la Real Audiencia de Lima in relation to a judicial formality in the trial of the Conde de Fuente González against the Marqués de Zelada de la Fuente. 1 f.
28. Order signed by Viceroy José Fernando de Abascal y Sousa, Marqués de la Concordia, on Aug. 14, 1807, addressed to the Oydór Decano de la Real Audiencia de Lima, in relation to the collection of papers related to a decree of the same date. 1 f.
29. Official letter signed by Viceroy Joaquín de la Pezuela y Sanchez, Marqués de Vilumá, on May 10, 1818, requesting from the Indendente of Huamanga a list of all the military chiefs and officers under his command in that territory. 1 f.
30. Official letter signed by the General en Jefe del Ejercito del Alto Perú, José de la Serna, on Oct. 20, 1818, addressed to the Presidente del Cuzco ordering the construction of equipment for the army as soon as possible. 1 f.
31. Royal Cédula signed by King Ferdinand VII on Oct..., 1818, granting the Reales Beneficios to the Province of Cuzco and giving the title of Fidelísima to its capital, the city of Cuzco. 2 ff.
Callao, Perú, 1774. 91 pages.
This original manuscript is a register of goods exported in ships from the port of Callao, Perú, to Spain and other ports of the Southern Sea during 1774. Names of the owners or shippers of the goods, dates of registration, names of the ships, descriptions of the goods, ports of destination, names of the persons to whom the goods are sent, numbers of the invoices and the value of the goods are specified. The first pages include an index by the first name of the shippers. On the last two pages of the volume there is a summary of the invoices included in this book with an estimate of the value of the goods. This manuscript is an important source of information on commerce and shipping in Perú during 1774.
Lima, 1777-1779. 15 folios.
Account book of the payments that D. Pasqual Antonio Monzon made from the funds of Penas de Cámara to cover the Gastos de Justicia. Penas de Cámara were the pecuniary penalties or fines imposed by the judges and the courts. These funds were deposited in the Royal Treasury. Gastos de Justicia were the expenditures incurred by the different activities of the Administration of Justice and were paid from the funds of the Penas de Cámara.
This original manuscript includes the names of the persons who received the payments for services to assist the Administration of Justice and the decrees and sentences that ordered the payments. The records date between Aug., 1777, and Nov., 1779, at Lima, Perú.
Perú, 1564-1718. Bound, 1821. [19], 283 folios.
This volume contains résumés of capellanías in Perú examined since 1680, the year in which the Licenciado Don Francisco de Xauregui was appointed Visitador de Capellanías. The capellanía, or chaplaincy, was capital, the interest of which was required by Spanish law for the support of an ecclesiastic whose duties were to celebrate masses and to perform other pious obligations. The résumés include information about the nature, purposes, and duties imposed by the founders of the capellanías, the persons that possessed them in full right or on an interim basis, and the patrons responsible for the appointments. The capellanías described in this prontuario were founded between 1564 (f. 120) and 1683 (f. 211). Notations added to the original résumés date as late as 1718 (f. 231).
One of the common watermarks on the paper resembles watermarks illustrated in Edward Heawood, Watermarks Mainly of the 17th and 18th Centuries(Hilversum, Holland, 1957)
, Pl. 114-119. These watermarks date between 1665 and 1766, and it is reasonable to assume that this paper was manufactured and used during this period.
The dates of the capellanías and the notations about them and the dating of the watermarks all indicate that the documents bound in this volume date from the late 17th century and early 18th century.
This volume was ordered to be bound in 1821 by Presbitero Tomás Florez, Archivero de la Curia Eclesiastica and Colector del Donativo Eclesiastico Voluntario. This event was apparently provoked by changes in the Spanish law that prohibited the foundation of new capellanías and ordered the incorporation of their properties to the government treasury during 1820 and 1821. This legislation was cancelled in 1823.
Lircay River, near Talca, Chile. Copy, ca. 1814. 3 pages.
The agreement was reached the 3rd of May, 1814, on the banks of the Lircay River near the city of Talca. It was signed by the general in chief of the national army, Brigadier Gabino Gainza and the principal chiefs of the army of the government of Chile, Generals Bernardo O'Higgins and Juan Mackenna. In this agreement Chile offered to send deputies to the Cortes as its representatives, and as an integral part of the Spanish monarchy; to recognize Ferdinand VII as its monarch, and the Regency that approved the Junta of Chile, that will act as interior government with all its power and faculties. Chile would have free commerce with the allied and the neutral nations, especially with Great Britain. The royalist army would evacuate Chilean territory, ending the hostilities; and properties confiscated after February of 1810 would be restored.
Don José Abascal, Viceroy of Perú, disapproved the agreement and sent to Chile another expedition in July, 1814, that undertook the campaign that ended with the Battle of Rancagua, retaining Chile under Spanish domain till 1824.
The paper on which the agreement is written was made in Capellades, Catalonia, Spain, by the Almirall family who produced paper there for a long period of time. Three examples of their work are illustrated and discussed in Oriol Valls I Subirà, Paper and Watermarks in Catalonia(Amsterdam, 1970)
, Vol. I, plates 2-3, and Vol. II, p. 238. All the examples date during 1804-1824, and those of 1807 and 1809 most closely resemble the watermarks on the manuscript. These facts suggest that the paper on which this copy of the agreement is written and the copy itself are reasonably contemporary with the signing of the agreement in 1814. This copy of the agreement differs from the one published in the second volume of Archivo de don Bernardo O'Higgins (Santiago de Chile, 1947), pp. 156-159. Some words are missing, and others are written with misspellings common in South America during that period, for example the signatures of O'Higgins and Mackenna.
n.p., ca. 1821-1822. [94] pages.
This manuscript was written to be delivered into the hands of José de San Martin, as is stated in its first page. It is a geographic description of the Department of Lambayeque, Perú. It includes information on towns, population, courts, buildings, and describes the political, military, and ecelesiastieal organizations together with the eeonomie conditions of the department.
San Martin proclaimed the independence of Perú on July 28, 1821, assuming the title of Protector. He held the protectorship and military command until September, 1822, when he resigned and relinguished power to the new Peruvian Congress. These facts suggest that this description was written during the period of the protectorship and is either an original or a copy contemporary with the years 1821-1822.
v. p., 1700-1702. Folios 372-378.
Manuscripts concerned with the succession of Charles II, King of Spain, by Philip V, Madrid, March 20, 1702, ff. 372-373. News received at the Port of Buenos Aires from San Gabriel Island, signed by Bartolomé Montellano, n. d., f. 374. Copies of two letters from the Governor of Havana addressed to General Mascarau, dated on April 29, and on May 6, 1700, ff. 375-376. Two additional reports related to the same period, n. d., ff. 377-378.
n.p. copy, ca. 1767. [6] folios.
Fr. Manuel Gil was the leader of this Franciscan missionary expedition to Manoa in El Dorado territory where the Indians were revolting during the year 1767. He had a name similar to the eminent Jesuit mathematician and physicist Manuel Gervasio Gil (1745-1807), who, according to information from Enciclopedia Universal Ilustrada(Espasa-Calpe, S.A., Madrid, 1925)
 Vol. XXVI, p. 34, was at Río de la Plata and was expelled together with other Jesuits to Italy during 1767. Considering the distance between Lima and Río de la Plata and the fact that one was a Franciscan and the other a Jesuit, it is difficult to believe that it was the same person. The information about the Indians' revolt in Manoa and the difficulties suffered by the members of the missionary expedition, including a list of the missionaries and Christian Indians killed during the revolt make this manuscript copy an important one (see folio [6]).
Madrid, Spain, 1797. Copy, [2] folios.
Manuscript copy of the memorandum sent to Manuel Godoy (1767-1851), Prince of the Peace, and Prime Minister of Spain, on April 25, 1797, by Dominique Catherine de Pérignon (1754-1818), French Ambassador in Spain. Contains an inquiry relative to a naval engagement between English and Spanish warships, and expresses the opinion of the French Directory censuring the conduct of the Spanish warships for not fighting the English warships during that naval engagement, and requesting the punishment of those responsible.
Followed by: Diario de Montevideo, containing news gathered from ships that put in at the Port of Montevideo from June 30 to July 11, 1797. Includes information about the more important events in Europe and in other Spanish colonies during the previous months, with a report about the ships arriving at and departing from that port during those days.
Lima, Perú, 1797. [11] folios.
Manuscript copy of the inventories of the church property in the Santa Iglesia Metropolitana de los Reyes at Lima, Perú, on Jan. 20, 1797. It includes: sacred vestments, engraved silver, relics, linen, images, bells, books of anthems, precious stones set in gold or silver, and goods and ornaments of the chapels of Santa Ana and Santa Isabel in that church. There is a note at the end explaining that the inventory of the goods and ornaments of the altar of Nuestra Señora de la Antigua is not included because they are the property of the University of San Marcos. The University uses that altar to deliver the major degrees in public ceremony. The inventories were finished on Jan. 20, 1797, and signed by Marcos de Andrade.
Lima, Perú, 1825-1826. 35 folios.
This original manuscript is a memorandum book of the General Treasury of the Ministry of Finance of Perú. It contains copies of: official letters, proposals from the General Treasury to the Minister of Finance related to state properties ordering their sequestration from the tenants for not paying the rent, a report of the salaries of the staff of the General Treasury, and other proposals related to business to be solved by that ministry between April 22, 1825, and January 17, 1826.
Lima, Perú, 1820-1823. 21 folios.
This original manuscript is one of the account books of the general account of the testamentary execution of the estate of the late Don Antonio Alvarez Morán, carried out by the testamentary executor Don Francisco Valerio Gassols. This volume includes different accounts: one for the amount received according to the inventory; one for the amount collected from rents and sales; and another account for the value of the jewels, slaves, engraved silver, furniture, vehicles for transporting persons or goods, and animals in the possession of the widow. At the end is a list of the goods that were in the possession of the testamentary executor including the amount of 29,815 pesos and 4 1/2 reales given as a stipend for his labor on March 31, 1823. It is followed by a list of the debts of the estate of the late Don Antonion Alvarez Morán.
Copy, n. d. 94 pages
The undated original of this typescript is contained in a volume of Manuscritos varios at the Archivo Nacional del Perú. There are 104 poems written in serveral forms, including sonnets and ballads.
Solís, a Spanish dramatist and historian, studied law at Salamanca, and in 1654 was appointed Secretary of State as well as Private Secretary to Philip IV of Spain. Later he obtained the lucrative post of Chronicler of the Indies. His Historia de la Conquista de Méjico, deservedly ranks as a Spanish prose classic. It was published in 1684; an English translation by Townshend appeared in 1724.
Lima, Perú, Feb. 5, 1863. 3 pages.
Typewritten copy of the message sent to the Extraordinary Congress of 1863 by Miguel de San Román, President of Perú, together with the budget proposal submitted to that Congress for its approval on Feb. 5, 1863. President San Román died on April 3, 1863, less than two months after the date of this message.
Lima, Perú, March 26, 1850. 24 pages.
Manuscript copy of the speech delivered by Ramón Castilla, President of Perú, to the last session of the 1850 Extraordinary Congress, on March 26 of the same year. It is a report of his government in the last five years (1845-1850), and an acknowledgement to the Congress of its collaboration. After Perú became a Republic in 1820, Castilla was the first president to complete his first term in government without an insurrection against him. He is considered by historians the most influential political figure in Perú during the 19th century.
Lima, Perú, July 28, 1872. 4 pages.
Typewritten copy of the message sent to the Congress by Mariano H. Zevallos, First Vice-President of Perú, when by constitutional mandate he became President of Perú following the assassination of President José Balta Montero (1814-1872). President Balta was murdered on July 26, 1872, one week before the end of his term of office.
Siglo XVII. 289 ff.
Juán del Valle y Caviedes was the first satirical poet in Perú.
According to the typed memorandum of F. Pérez de Velasco, dated Lima, March 26, 1908, that is in the front of this volume, Ricardo Palma brought out a later edition of the poetry of Juán del Valle y Caviedes based on a manuscript copy from the library of Cipriano Coronel Zegarra. The manuscript copy, here in the Peruvian Collection, written at the second half of the 17th century, of the poems of Caviedes was very useful for correcting errors in the copies published by Ricardo Palma. It includes more than sixty unpublished sonnets and many other unedited poems of Caviedes. Copies of his poems are preceded by an incomplete poem of an unknown author. The table of contents is incomplete, but there are two typed copies that include all the titles of the poems in the manuscript.
According to a bibliographical note of the Peruvian literary historian Rubén Vargas Ugarte on page xxi of vol. I of his collection Clasicos Peruanos entitled Obras de Don Juán del Valle y Caviedes(Lima, 1947)
, this is the oldest ant complete manuscript consulted, and he used it as a guide for the compilation of the complete works of the poet. The watermarks on the paper resemble watermarks illustrated in Edward Heawood, Watermarks Mainly of the 17th and 18th Centuries(Hilversum, Holland, 1975), Pl. 114-119, used on paper manufactured between 1665 and 1766, and it is reasonable to assume, as Pérez de Velasco did in his typed memorandum, that this manuscript was written at the end of the 17th century.
Caviedes, known as the riverbank poet, (el poeta de la ribera), revealed in his poems a profound rancor against physicians, but his ingenuous and burlesque versification was simple and unaffected, without any trace of " gongorismo," a lofty style of writing commonly used by poets during that period.
Años de 1772 a 1773. 1014 pages.
The Concilio Provincial is an assembly of the clergy of an ecclesiastical province gathered to deliberate upon points of doctrine and discipline of the Catholic religion. The decisions approved by these councils are an important source of canon law in the Catholic Church. This manuscript of more than 1,000 pages contains 49 opinions handed down by the consultants that participated in the Concilio Provincial that took place in Lima, Perú, during 1772-1773. This was the last Concilio that took place in Lima under the Spanish rule. The Archbishopric of Lima was highly interested in obtaining this manuscript from the owners of the Pérez de Velasco collection to whom they made a very substantial offer. This manuscript is an excellent source of information for researchers interested in the study of the history of the Catholic Church in Spanish America, and of the treatment given to the Indians by the Catholic Church during the colonial period.
The record of proceedings and resolutions of this Concilio were published by Rubén Vargas Ugarte in volume II of Concilios Limenses (1551-1772),Lima, 1952.
 The same author published in 1945, Manuscritos Peruanos en las Bibliotecas América in which he describes, in a summary form, the opinions expressed in this manuscript. Also included are the names of the consultants and the subjects treated in the opinions above mentioned. (See pp.237-240).
Lima, Perú, 1879. 102 folios.
Manuscript copies of originals in the Biblioteca Nacional assembled by Odriozola during 1879. There are poetical works by Felipe Pardo Aliaga (1806-1868), Juan del Valle y Caviedes (1652-1692) and by other poets (folios 1-38). Among the prose selections are: Introducción a la historia de los Incas del Perú published in El Mercurio Peruano No. 176, Sept. 9, 1792, (folios 39-45); Ejecucion de la pena de muerte impuesta al asesino del General Sucre, copy of the original printed in Bogotá, Nov. 30, 1842 (folios 45-49); Diversas noticias historicas. Los Portugueses y la Inquisición (folios 49-52); Gigantes, (folio 52); Enigma, poem, (folio 53); Volcán de Ubinas, (folios 53-54); Monstruo, (folio 54); Civilización Ratuna published in El Instructor Peruano, (folio 55); Ruina de Pasto published in El Nacional,Caracas (folios 55-56); El Baile de los Mostrencos, poem, (folios 56-57); ¡Hoy trace un año! En el Aniversario de las matanzas de Arequipa del 25 de Noviembre de 1849, poem (folios 58-60); A la Paz, poem (folio 60); Soneto, Decima and Estrofa suelta, poems (folio 61); José Marla de Cordova y Urrutia, Restablecimiento de los Archivos destruidos pare former una exacta historia del Perú, published in El Comercio Nos. 2,796 and 2,800, Oct. 25 and 27, 1848. (folios 61-66); Haciendas o fundos rústicos que en el Perú pertenecieron á los Jesuítas y que fueron vendidas durante los ocho primeros años despuesde la expulsion (folios 66-67); Fundación de la Iglesia y Convento de la Compañía de Jesús que se arruinó en la inundacion del mar en el Callao á cause del terremoto del 28 de Octubre de 1746 copied by Odriozola from an unfinished chronicle of the Society of Jesus dated 1651-1653 at the National Library in Lima, March 26, 1879 (folios 68-91); Carte annua de 1639 del Provincial de la Sociedad de la Companía de Jesús del Colegio de San Pablo de Lima al General de dicha Compañía en Roma detallandole el estreno del Nuevo Templo de San Pablo, conocido troy por San Pedro, verificado el 31 de Julio de 1638 (folios 92-94); Ceremonial en el recibimiento de los Virreyes, signed at Lima on June 25, 1747, by Alvaro Navia Bolaños y Moscoso and copied by Odriozola from the original at the National Library on Oct. 14, 1879 (folios 95-101); followed by a newspaper clipping of a poem titled No hay que precipitarse published in El Nacional on March 7, 1879. Odriozola finished assembling this volume on Oct. 14, 1879.
Lima, Perú, 1848. 16 pages. copy.
Manuscript copy of articles published in El Comercio, Nos. 2796 and 2800 on Oct. 25 and 27, 1848, recommending the restoration of the Peruvian archives. This manuscript copy is exactly the same as the one in MS. 26, folios 61-66.
Lima, Perú. 1860. 93 folios. Index.
This volume contains manuscript copies and newspaper clippings assembled by Odriozola chiefly of poems and essays published in the Peruvian newspapers El Telegrafo,El Pacificador del Perú, and El Mercurio Peruano after Perú became a republic in 1820. Most of the poems were written by the Peruvian satirical poet José Joaquín Larriva (1780-1832). The newspaper clippings include: a Memoria about the Chilean National Navy read at the University of Chile by Don Antonio Garcia Reyes on Oct. 11, 1846; a royal cédula of Sept. 15, 1802, granting royal priviledges to the city of Lima; a biography of General José de San Martin; a letter from San Martin to Bolivar granting him the direction of the war in Perú; and a Letrilla of the Peruvian poet and politician Felipe Pardo y Aliaga (1806-1868). Odriozola assembled this volume between July 27, 1855, and June 1, 1859. An index is included at the end of the volume.
Guayaquil, Ecuador. June 26, 1866. Printed broadside. 2 copies.
Broadside printed at Guayaquil, Ecuador, in 1866 by the political enemies of President Gabriel García Moreno after he finished his first presidential term (1861-1865) charging him with tyranny and assassinations. During his second presidential term (1869-1875), his oppressive rule ended in his assassination by young liberals at Quito, Ecuador, on Aug. 6, 1875.
Both copies transferred to the International Broadsides collection.
Callao, Perú. July 16, 1853. Printed material.
This printed broadside includes information about names, nationality, weight, owners, captains, guarantors, trade and conditions of the ships registered at the port of Callao on July 16, 1853. Signed by Alejandro Deustua and Juan de la Puente.
Transferred to Rare Book Room.
Cuzco, Perú, Feb. 13, 1847. 2 pages
Printed article about a failed project of monarchy in Colombia. Summary of a documented recollection written in 1833 by the Colombian General José Domingo Espinar, former secretary of Simón Bolivar.
Lima, Perú, 1892. Printed Broadside.
An expression of Carlos Paz Soldán's views upon constitutional guarantees related to public meetings, the right of assembly and the right of reply.
Transferred to the Rare Book Room.
Lima, Perú. March 18, 1870. Broadside.
This printed broadside is a balance sheet of the branch of Jerusalen y Cautivos of the Peruvian Treasury Department according to an inspection of the register book on Dec. 31, 1869. It includes the name of each account, any representive, the landed property, the annual revenues, the interest, and credit and debit balances.
Transferred to the International Broadsides collection.
n. p., n. d. 26, 42, 36 [i. e. 416] pages.
A copy of the original in the Biblioteca Nacional del Perú which was first published in 1752, and reprinted and published by Manuel de Odriozola in Documentos Literarios del Perú.Lima, 1863-77. T. X. (1877)
 pp. [5]-324. The volume is replete with details of the ecclesiastical history of the city of Arequipa.
Callao, Perú, 1814-1823. 81 pages.
This manuscript is a duplicate register of goods and merchandise deposited in the warehouses of the Adminstration of the Port of Callao from 1814 to 1823. Information includes the dates of registration, description of the goods or merchandise, names of the owners, names of the ships, names of the piaces from where the goods were coming, numbers of invoices, and dates of delivery are specified. Names of British and American ships are listed arriving at Callao beginning in 1820. Like MS. No. 9 of this collection, this manuscript is an important source of information on commerce and shipping in Perú at the end of the Wars of Independence.
Lima, Perú, 1786. [26] pages.
This original manuscript records the inspections of the warehouse by the interventor or comptroller Juan de Luque Marmol, to verify the amount of mercury and of dressed sheepskins used as containers for the mercury between Jan. 1st and Dec. 31st, 1786. Information about the dates of arrivals and departures from the warehouses, the weight, geographical sources, names of the owners or shippers of the mercury and the sheepskins are specified in the inspections done during that year. Francisco Argumaniz was the guard of the warehouses during that period. Pages are missing from the volume, but it contains all of the information specified in the index. This volume is a good source of information on mercury production in Perú, similar to MS. No. 3 of this collection.
n. p., n. d. [1] folio. copy.
This manuscript is a copy of a poem improvised by José Joaquín Olmedo at Tacubaya, Mexico, in 1811, on his way to the Cortes of Cadiz as a Diputado representing Guayaquil.
For further information see: Poeslas completes de José Joaquín de Olmedo,Fondo de Cultura Economica, Mexico, 1947
 (p. XI-XII, 56-57) where this poem was published.
n. p., n. d. 1-3 [i. e. 11] pages.
Larrea y Loredo, Peruvian diplomat and politician, divides into three periods the history of the Peruvian Indians and describes their values.
Lima, ca. 1801-1806. [5] folios.
Copy of the memorandum sent by Fr. Angel Luque to Viceroy Gabriel de Aviles attacking the canónigos and the Fiscal Ecltesiástico who had charged Fr. Iglesias, Parroco de Cathedral with disrespect to the Archbishop. Fr. Luque complained about the denial by the Fiscal Ecltesiástico of Fr. Iglesia's appeal.
According to Manuel de Mendiburu's Diccionario Histórico Biográfico del Perú(Lima, 1931)
, Tomo I. p. 103, Fr. Angel Luque was declared an infamous author in 1812 for writing diatribes against the secretary and the treasurer of Viceroy José Fernando de Abascal.
Mexico, 1785. [3] folios.
Basadre's letter to Jose de Gálvez concerned trade with China, the discovery of mines in New Spain, and the importation of mercury from the Philippines through the port of Acapulco. Basadre proposed the establishment with Chinese merchants of an exchange of mercury for furs. Nutria and seal furs were available from the missions in California.
This letter is followed by a note from Basadre to Fernando del Mazo and his reply of April 16, 1785. These letters are copies.
Ms. No. 41 is bound with this manuscript.
Madrid, 1583-1587. 6 folios.
Bound with MS. No. 40
n. p., ca. 1810. [9] pages.
A consultation with the Junta Suprema Central concerning the convocation of the Cortes and the number of representatives from the nobility and the clergy that will be members of the Cortes. According to Antonio Cano Manuel's opinion the Cortes should determine its own makeup; the Consejo de Regencia agreed with his opinion. This body was the famous Cortes of Cadiz that wrote the Constitution of 1812. The Junta Suprema Central and the Consejo de Regencia were the supreme authorities in Spain during the enforced absence of King Ferdinand VII.
Originally bound with MS. Nos. 40 and 41.
Arequipa, Perú, 1841. [2] folios.
Copies of letters dated Nov. 19 and 23, 1841, addressed to the Ministry of State of Perú and to the Prefecto of the Departamento of Arequipa, Perú, signed by Fermin Canseco and Miguel San Román, followed by a letter and a proclamation to the citizens of Arequipa, all of which are related to the Battle of Ingavi that took place south of La Paz, Bolivia, on Nov. 18, 1841, and in which Bolivians under José Ballivián defeated Peruvians under Agustin Gamarra who was killed.
n. p., ca. 1791-1794. [4] folios.
According to a notice included with this anonymous manuscript, it belonged to Diego de Cisneros, a monk from El Escorial known as Padre Geronimo. The manuscript is highly critical of the founders of the newspaper and the members of the academic society, but it still is an important source of information in relation to both, including the names of the first academic and foreign members of the society. For additional information about the newspaper and the society, see: Alberto Tauro, Diccionario Enciclopédico del Perú, Ilustrado(Lima, 1966-67)
, Vol. III, pp. 176-177.
Cuzco, Perú, 1811, 1816. 234, 212 pages
These two volumes are contemporary duplicates of registers sent by the Court of Audit (Contaduría) to the Court of Accounts (Tribunal de Cuentas). These registers record customs duties (Alcabala) charged for goods entering and leaving Cuzco at the sentry boxes of San Sebastian and Yanamayo. MS. No. 44 is the register for San Sebastian from Dec. 19, 1810, through Dec. 28, 1811. MS. No. 45 is for Yanamayo, Jan. 1-Dec. 28, 1816. The duties were paid to the royal treasury at Lima. The registers record the rates, the names of the persons paying the duties, the types of goods, and the amounts paid.
Quito, Ecuador, 1794. [42] pages.
This manuscript is a historical summary of the founding, settling, and development of the city of Quito, Ecuador, prepared by Juan de Ascaray, a notary. It contains a chronological list of bishops of Quito and is based upon documents in the archives of the city in 1794, especially a manuscript work by Dr. Miguel Sánchez Solmirón, dean of the cathedral.
Eleven maps of Quito that were formerly filed with this manuscript are now in the Rare Book Room.
n. p., n. d. [19] pages.
Brief account of the nearly two year's journey of Charles Marie de la Condamine from Quito, Ecuador, to Paris, France, by the way of the Maranón and Amazon rivers, containing data on latitude, longitude, velocity of river currents, width, and depth of streams, and observations on altitude. La Condamine had come to America with representatives of the French Academy of Sciences, and with Antonio de Ullóa and Jorge Juán, scientists representing the King of Spain, to measure a degree at the equator to determine the shape of the earth. This was the expedition which proved that the poles were not round and silenced the enemies of Newton. La Condamine left the southernmost point of his meridian measurement on May 11, 1743, and reached Paris, Feb. 23, 1745. The author of this summary is not indicated.
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 1822. [17] pages.
A letter dated at Rio de Janeiro, August 15, 1822, in which the author, signed Un Arequipeño (i. e. citizen of the city of Arequipa, Perú), Charged General San Martín and Bernardo Monteagudo with tyranny, robberies and assassinations.
Bound with MS. No. 48A.
Valparaiso, Chile, 1823. [2] pages
Copy of the edict published at Valparaiso, Chile, the first of Nov., 1823, signed by José Ignacio Zenteno, political governor of the province of Valparaiso, ordering the Spaniards to register with the authorities of Valparaiso within three days. Punishment for non-compliance was prescribed.
Bound with MS. No. 48.
Bolivia, 1825. 8 folios.
Summary of the itinerary between the Province of Santa Cruz in the Republic of Bolivia and the Province of San Pablo (Sao Paulo) in the Brazilian Empire, dedicated to Simón Bolivar by his admirer Antonio Gonzalez, in 1825.
This itinerary describes the conditions of the roads, the distances between the cities and towns in leagues (a Spanish linear measure nearly four English miles), the agricultural crops and cattle, the climatological conditions during the different seasons, the rivers and lakes, etc., from the Province of Santa Cruz passing through the Province of Chiquitos in Bolivia entering the Brazilian Empire through the town of Mato Grosso, the town of Guayas (Goiaz) and others, finally reaching the cities of Sn. Pablo (Sao Paulo) and Rio de Janeiro. Information about the troops, the clergy, the Indians and the economic and social conditions of the territories are included in the itinerary.
This manuscript is a good source of information for researchers interested in Bolivian and Brazilian history, description, and travel, and social and economic conditions at the beginning of the 19th century.
Lima, Peru, 1768. 22 folios.
Latin poems of the Jesuit Major College of St. Paul in Lima on the occasion of the death of Elizabeth Farnese, Queen of Spain, wife of Philip V and mother of Charles III of Spain. The majority of the poems are elegies written in Latin expressing sorrow for the death of the Queen. Some are translated into Spanish. Laudatory poems on such occasions were typical.
Santa Rosa de Ocopa, Perú, 1814-1815. 45 pages.
This is a copy of a file on the exploratory expeditions to establish communications between Ocopa and Sarayacú by the Franciscan Fr. Paulo Alonso Carvallo, guardian and vicar of the Missionary College of Santa Rosa de Ocopa in Perú, together with Fr. Diego Ruiz and others. The purpose was to restore the missions of Ucayali in the region of the confluence of the Pangoa and the Chanchamayo rivers via the towns of Comas and Andamarca.
The manuscript was copied out in 1847 by Fr. Julián Bovo de Revello. It consists of letters from Carvallo to the Intendent Governor, minutes of the town council of Andamarca, a diary of the 1814 (July 2 to Sept. 28) expedition of Fr. Carvallo, and information on the Fr. Diego Ruiz's 1815 expedition. Certain paragraphs of this manuscript describing the mountains and giving the distances between villages are quoted in Bernardino Izaguirre Ispizua, Historia de las Misiones Franciscanas(Lima, 1922-29)
, Vol. 9, pp. 13-18.
Lima, Perú, 1837. 25 folios.
Included in this small booklet are several poems and Spanish tranlations of well known religious hymns. The translations are signed by F. Diego Gonzales. The authors are not identified in the volume.
Madrid, 1788. [3] folios.
Royal Cédula given at Madrid on December 24, 1788, by King Charles IV commanding the Viceroy of Perú, Teodoro De Croix, to announce to the citizens of Perú the death of King Charles III and the accession to the Spanish throne of King Charles IV on December 14, 1788. This Royal Cédula was published at Lima, Perú on May 13, 1789, by order of Viceroy De Croix.
Transferred to Rare Book Room.
Lima, Perú. April 17, 1860. 2 pages.
Letter from an unidentified person to Pedro Candamo discussing the planned delivery of a thousand ounces of gold, giving detailed instructions and threatening Candamo with death if the task is not performed.
Lima, Perú. 1587. [11] folios.
Copies of 4 letters addressed to Fr. Juan de Atienza (1542-1592), Provincial of the Society of Jesús in Perú, from the Jesuit missionary Fr. Diego de Samaniego (1542-1627) at the Santa Cruz de la Sierra mission (now in Bolivia). The letters are dated April 10, June 1st, June 25 and August 3, 1587.
Copies of 3 letters addressed also to Provincial Fr. Atienza by the Jesuit missionary Fr. Francisco de Angulo from the Tucumán Mission (now in Argentina), dated March 29, May 9 and June 23, 1587.
Another 2 copies of letters to Fr. Atienza from the Jesuit missionary Alonso de Barzana (1528-1598) dated at the Tucumán Mission May 8 and August 20, 1587.
Fr. Atienza was the founder of the Tucumán Santa Cruz de la Sierra and Quito (now in Ecuador) missions, and Fr. Barzana, because of his exemplary life as a missionary was known as the Apostle of Tucumán and Paraguay. For additional information about these Jesuit missionaries see: Evaristo San Cristobal, Apéndice al Diccionario Histórico-Biográfico del Perú (Lima, 1935), T. I., pp. 163-166, 285, 342-343, and see also: Historia General de la Compañía de Jesús en la Provincia del Perú (Madrid, 1944), T. I., Vol. 1, pp. 25-29.
Lima, August 1, 1817. 1 folio.
A report on the Viceroy's Honor Guard, giving the number of men, horses, etc. during July and August, 1817. Joaquín de la Pezuela, y Sanchez was Viceroy of Perú from 1816 to 1821. The report is signed by Ignacio Landaruri and José Rodriguez.
Lima, Perú, 1766-1767. 96 folios.
This register is a daily record of the sums paid by merchants, landowners, etc. to the Royal Treasury (Caja Real) in Lima, capital of the Viceroyalty of Perú, between January, 1766, and August, 1767. The register records the names of the persons paying the duties, the types of goods, and the amounts paid. The majority of the revenues derived from two principal sources: the Alcabala, an excise tax on sales and exchanges of goods, and the Almojari-fazgo, an import and exchange duty. These taxes were collected by two offices of the Treasury, the court of Audit (Contaduría) and the Administration (Administración).
Arequipa, 1834. [4] folios.
The woodcut of the bird was made from a piece of wood found in an excavation at Cuzco. President Luis José Obregoso gave the order of printing a copy of the figure carved in wood. It was done at the government printing press managed by Benavides at Arequipa on Sept. 22, 1834. President Obregoso gave the copy as a present to Juan Gualberto Valdivia, a Peruvian priest and historian.
The woodcut of a genealogical tree of an unknown family, also found carved in a piece of wood, was given to Valdivia by Obregoso.
The collection is composed of 33 pocket diaries Parker Pillsbury kept for the years 1864 to 1896. The diaries contain a consistent, uninterrupted record of Pillsbury's life during these years.
Pillsbury wrote daily or nearly daily about the details of his life recording both the mundane and the profound. A typical entry begins with the weather and his location before providing the names of those with whom he met or correspondeded that day, events he attended, lectures he gave, or work he did. Pillsbury writes about his interactions with William Lloyd Garrison, Frederick Douglass, Abby Kelley and Stephen S. Foster, Gerrit Smith, Wendell Phillips, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, Lucretia Mott, the Allcott family, Robert Ingersoll, Charles Sumner, Henry Ward Beecher, Theodore Tilton and many other leading social reformers of the nineteenth century. His entries are occasionally accompanied by tipped in newspaper clippings about national events.
Due to their consistency and span, the diaries provide a decades' long chronology of Pillsbury's involvement with and importance in the major social reform movements of the late nineteenth century, and in particular, the women's rights movement with which he closely associated during these years. The diaries show him to be a ceaseless traveler, moving up and down the east coast, throughout New England, and through western New York and the Midwest, as he lectured, preached, attended women's suffrage conventions, and otherwise attempted to advance the causes of equal rights for women and African Americans and Free Religion.
The diaries illustrate his close and sustained relationship with major figures in the women's rights movements. He writes of his work as joint editor with Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony of the Revolution from 1867 to 1870, and his continued friendship and partnership with Anthony in the following decades. He often visited her in Rochester, they lectured together, and he served as her advisor when she was put on trial in Albany by the State Supreme Court for voting without the right to do so.
Robert C. Poindexter (d. 1885) was a merchant in eastern Yadkin County for many years. His general store at East Bend was listed in Branson's North Carolina Business Directory for 1867, 1869, 1872, and 1884. He and his store are also mentioned in William E. Rutledge, Jr.'s, An Illustrated History of Yadkin County (Yadkinville, 1965) in the section on East Bend. In 1857 Poindexter was listed in D. D. T. Leech's Post Office Directory as the postmaster at Red Plains.
Three account books, 1836-1860, are from Poindexter's mercantile businesses. At least two different partnerships are represented. There are some uncertainties about the exact locations and number of his stores. These ambiguities and the difficulties in identifying the volumes will require some explanation. All of the business activity took place in the eastern section of Yadkin County, the area of East Bend in the northeast, Huntsville in the southeast, and Red Plains in between. Red Plains, a locality no longer in existence, was close to present-day Enon (Rutledge, P. 77).
The earliest account book has two distinct sections. It was first used as Daybook, 1836, for a general store at Huntsville. The entries (135 pp.) date during January 22-September 20, 1836. The ownership of this store is not known. Notable customers included Col. Richard C. Puryear, Isaac Jarratt, and Thomas L. Clingman. The Clingmans, Poindexters, Puryears, and Jarratts were related, and all figure in this collection and also in the Jarratt-Puryear Family Papers. Tyre Glen was a customer, and this department also has a collection of his papers. There was a post office in the store, for there are many entries for postage. At that time Richard C. Puryear was postmaster at Huntsville.
The account book that includes the Daybook, 1836, was subsequently used as the Ledger, 1843-1848 (353 pp.), by the mercantile firm of Poindexter and Martin whose ownership has been identified through various notations. The initials P and M appear on the spine of the volume. An account on pp. 334-335 is labeled Poindexter and Martin Bills. This account was continued from pp. 30-31 where it was labeled R. C. Poindexter and T. S. Martin. The first entry in their account was on Nov. 1, 1843, for a large amount of goods purchased from P and P according to an inventory. The Ledger's accounts begin in Nov., 1843, so that it is clear that Poindexter and Martin began business in that month, probably as the successor of an earlier firm named P and P. A note was given to J. H. P. for a large sum, so one of the earlier owners was probably J. H. Palmer. Various accounts have entries for settlements with P and M (pp. 37, 38) and T. S. M. (pp. 33, 46, etc.). Poindexter worked in the store, for his account (p. 303) contains entries for annual wages.
The location of the general store represented by the Ledger, 1843-1848, is unclear. It was not at Huntsville, for there are too many scattered entries such as cr. by charging on Books at Huntsville, Cr. by Cash at Huntsville, settled at Huntsville, etc. (pp. 117, 148, 178, 184, 195, 218, 244, etc.). These entries also suggest that the firm did have a store at Huntsville. Robert C. Poindexter eventually had a store at East Bend. However, this ledger was not kept at East Bend. That town did not have a post office until 1849, and numerous entries in many accounts show that the store included a post office. There are extensive accounts for Richard C. Puryear, Isaac Jarratt, and Tyre Glen.
Poindexter and Martin opened a new ledger in 1847, for many accounts were noted as continued there (pp. 65, 147, etc.). Some accounts in the Ledger, 1843-1848, remained active into 1848. Thereafter, later entries as late as 1855 were usually settlements of inactive accounts not continued into the later ledger.
The mercantile firm of A. P. and R. C. Poindexter had a general store at Red Plains, a village near Enon. The Daybook, 1857-1858, belonged to that store. Many pages are labeled Red Plains. Identification of the store's and the volume's owners is supplied by a bill of 1856-1857 filed in the Financial Papers. The bill is a statement for purchases made by John D. Hedgcock and William Hedgcock at Red Plains from A. P. and R. C. Poindexter. The transaction for May 2, 1857, on the bill is also entered in the Daybook. The entries (66 pp.) in the Daybook date from April 30, 1857, to March 26, 1858.
On Sept. 26, 1860, the partnership of A. P. and R. C. Poindexter was dissolved, and the Daybook includes an account (4 pp.) for the division of property.
The back pages of the Daybook were used, probably by R. C. Poindexter, to record other financial matters. There are 10 1/2 pages, 1862-1863, of alphabetical lists of names followed by three columns for recording numbers of persons in the family, pounds, and value. These pages also include a short account for the receipt of large quantities of salt. It is apparent that these lists are for the distribution and rationing of salt. Salt was scarce, and the state set up factories, purchased salt, and sold it to the people. These accounts may relate to that effort. Since the number of persons in each family is recorded, these lists serve as a partial census. Unfortunately, many pages are missing. The Financial Papers also include a salt distribution list.
Another list (7 pp.) in the Daybook includes columns for names, acreage, location of acreage, and value. This list was apparently for taxation. The Financial Papers include a notice of March 20, 1863, that R. C. Poindexter and two others were appointed assessors for East Bend District for the listing of lands and slaves. Thus, this list is an informal tax list. Unfortunately, many pages are missing. Presumably this list dates from 1863 or later, and tax lists are unavailable for Yadkin County during 1863-1872 according to Draughon and Johnson's North Carolina Genealogical Reference (p. 452).
The Ledger, 1850-1860 (557 pp.), is identified as belonging to A. P. and R. C. Poindexter, because entries can be traced into it from their Daybook, 1857-1858. An example is a purchase by A. P. Poindexter that was entered in the Daybook on June 2, 1857, and later carried to his account in the Ledger (p. 542). However, the Ledger's account for Poindexter includes many transactions that are not in this Daybook from Red Plains. This circumstance and references in the Ledger to East Bend suggest that the firm had stores in more than one place - Red Plains, East Bend, and perhaps elsewhere. There are numerous references such as: cr. by work at East Bend and here (p. 364); Amount on Book kept by R. C. P. at East Bend (p. 488); cr. by work at East Bend (p. 450); cr. by settlement, this and our East Bend book (p. 541); etc. (pp. 427, 437, 478).
The location at which the Ledger was kept is not certain except that it was not at East Bend. The location may have been Red Plains. R. C. Poindexter was postmaster there in 1857, and his account in the Ledger was quite active then. There are references (p. 542) to transactions at Huntsville and at Yadkinville, so the Ledger was not kept at either of those places. Of course, the Ledger may have been a central one into which the business of more than one store was entered, and that would make its location difficult to determine. Accounts for R. C. Puryear, Isaac Jarratt, and Tyre Glen are not prominent in this volume.
The Ledger, 1850-1860, was begun in 1850 with many accounts continued from an Old Book. Thus, the firm existed before 1850 and had at least one earlier ledger. The accounts indicate that the store's activity ceased by early 1858. Later entries are for settlements of accounts. No accounts were marked as continued in a later ledger. This situation squares with the 1860 account in the Daybook, 1857-1858, for the dissolution of the partnership.
Transactions for postage (pp. 425, 426, 454) are rare unlike the situation in the Ledger, 1843-1848. Either the post office was not in the store, or other books were kept for postal matters.
The nine items, 1856-1871 and undated, in the Financial Papers include stray accounts for the stores, a salt distribution and rationing list of ca. 1862-1863, the notice of R. C. Poindexter's appointment as an assessor, etc.
The Miscellany includes 19 small squares of colored cotton cloth that were found between pages 387-388 of the Ledger, 1850-1860. The fabric was probably of a type used for dresses. There are six different designs. The designs are printed rather than woven. The fabric is in excellent condition. Its age is uncertain.
The Printed Material contains a clipping of 1852 with an advertisement for the Statesville Female Academy.
1 vol. added, 10-28-83. This volume is A. P. and R. C. Poindexter's Ledger, 1848-1850, from their general store. Accounts in this ledger, referred to as the old book, are marked as continued in the new book which is their Ledger, 1850-1860, that was cataloged earlier as part of this collection. Entries can be traced from the older book into the newer one. Since Ledger, 1848-1850 (172 pp.), opens many accounts in Sept., 1848, without any references to an earlier ledger, that date must have been the start of this partnership, the earlier one having been Poindexter and Martin. A. P. and R. C. Poindexter began a new ledger in 1850, but they continued to use the old one for some accounts. For that reason Ledger, 1848-1850, includes some later transactions as well as settlements of accounts. The primary use of the volume, however, occurred during 1848-1850. A. P. and R. C. Poindexter's names appear in this volume (p. 83, page before p. 1, etc.) as recipients of payments. The pages after p. 165 are missing. There are accounts for Isaac Jarratt and Tyre Glen. Postage payments are very scattered. Customers paid their bills not only with money and promissory notes but also with goods and services.
This collection consists of 49 color inkjet prints from the documentary project Test of Faith by photographer Lauren Pond. The images measure approximately 20x14 inches and are unmatted. Between 2011 and 2016, Pond documented the life, death, and West Virginian family of Pentecostal pastor and serpent handler, Mack Wolford, of the Full Gospel Apostolic House of the Lord Jesus in Matoaka, West Virginia. The series includes images of Wolford's death in his family home after he was bitten by the venomous snake.
In an artist's statement, Pond writes: "Serpent handlers, also known as Signs Followers, belong to a small Appalachian Pentecostal Holiness sect that holds a literal interpretation of the King James Bible's Mark 16:17-18. This passage describes the 'signs' of true believers, including the ability to 'take up serpents.' Believing in absolute obedience to God's Word, Signs Followers handle venomous snakes during their worship services. If bitten, they generally do not seek medical treatment, and instead, entrust their fate to God."
"Seeking a deeper understanding of serpent handlers and their faith, in 2011, Lauren traveled to West Virginia and met Mack, who invited her to document both his worship services and daily life. The course of her work changed dramatically in 2012, when she attended a worship service where Mack was fatally bitten by a rattlesnake. Through her images, Lauren illustrates her relationship with Mack and his family, the challenging experiences they have shared, and the insights these have given her into the tenets of the Signs Following faith – namely, forgiveness and renewal."
Test of Faith is the 2016 winner of Honickman First Book Prize in Photography, given by the Center for Documentary Studies at Duke University.
Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
Papers of the Pope and Carter families contain the letters, 1900-1939, of William Rivers Pope, officer in the United States Army, including a few letters dealing with his service in the Philippines, 1900-1901, and a large number of letters concerning his experiences in France in World War I from June, 1918, to June,1919, as commander of the 113th Infantry Regiment in the Meuse-Argonne offensive and commander of the military police in the area of the American Embarcation Center, LeMans, France.
World War I letters comment on the overall war effort, the peace, characteristics of soldiers, the role of the Negro soldier in the war, and the people and countryside of France. Letters, 1919-1939, deal for the most part with personal and family matters and refer to a few events of Pope's later military career, particularly his part in the stratosphere flight sponsored by the National Geographic Society and the Army Air Corps, 1934-1935.
The collection also contains letters, 1818-1821, to Dr. Benjamin Carter (1792-1865), a physician in Tennessee, from his brother John Conyers Carter (1793-1828), a lawyer in Camden, South Carolina, concerning family and professional matters, the panic of 1819 and other economic and political issues, internal improvements, and problems of the judicial system in South Carolina; and letters, 1831-1834, from his cousin John Carter, a lawyer and former congressman, pertaining to family affairs and life in Camden. Letters from members of the Clark family in Columbus, Mississippi, to members of the Pope family in Tennessee, 1827-1834, describe working on steamboats on the Mississippi and Ohio rivers, mercantile business in Columbus, and trading with the Choctaw Indians.
Correspondence, 1833-1834, between Gustavus Adolphus Pope in Mississippi and his family in Tennessee concerns the agricultural situation, prices for cotton and other crops, public land policy, and attitudes on slavery and religion. Correspondence, 1836-1855, among members of the family of William Rouse Pope, including Lesey Jane (Webster) Pope and William Leonidas Pope, concerns the settling of estates, family matters, and the prospects for settling in Texas, including farming conditions, opportunities for employment, land transfers, and social and religious life, Letters, 1853-1865, of Sarah Myra (Rodes) Rivers Trotter to her daughter, Cynthia (Rivers) Carter, discuss family gossip, travels, homemaking concerns, social events, and the impact of the Civil War. Other Civil War letters include those of Benjamin Franklin Carter to his wife, Cynthia (Rivers) Carter, and the letters of William Leonidas Pope and Gustavus Adolphus Pope.
Writings include a manuscript entitled "Recollections of the [Civil] War," by Cynthia (Rivers) Carter, 1899; "History of the Military Police Corps, American Embarcation Center, A. E. F.," 1919; and "Brief History of the Twenty-Ninth Division, 1921." Legal papers, 1796-1892, pertain mainly to the Carter family and contain land grants, deeds, indentures for land, wills, court decisions, and court authorizations for the sale of slaves.
Financial papers, 1791-1868, relate for the most part to the affairs of the Pope family in the 1820s and 1830s and include accounts, promissory notes, tax receipts, and receipts for purchases. Genealogical material in the collection includes Cynthia (Rivers) Carter's account of the family of her grandfather, Tyree Rodes, and a few items concerning the genealogy of slaves owned by the Carter family. Clippings, 1934-1935, pertain to the military career of William Rivers Pope, as do the newspapers and other printed material.
Volumes include the notebook of Dr. Benjamin Carter, 1827, mainly concerning money owed him; two account books, 1834-1837 and 1836-1845, of William Rouse Pope, and one account book, 1851-1876, of Gustavus A. Pope; diary and memorandum book of James R. Pope, containing an account of his participation in the battle of Shiloh, 1862; anonymous notebook, 1873-1900, containing copies of legal documents; publications; and maps of various areas of France, including LeMans, the MeuseArgonne, and Verdun.
Collection includes family correspondence between Pope, his wife, and extended family, reporting on local news and family health. There is a small amount of financial materials, including receipts, insurance policies, unemployment statements, and other documentation about the Popes' finances. Also includes some official correspondence between Pope and the National Fraternal Society of the Deaf from the 1920s and 1930s.
Porter Advertising Billboard Sketches date between the 1950s and 1970s and document the company's poster designs for a wide range of businesses in the region around Richmond, Indiana. The collection includes rough and developed sketches; design drawings for specific businesses and campaigns; generic designs; and billboard mockups for local businesses such as car dealerships; banks and financial institutions; funeral homes; hospitals and clinics; motels; retail stores; restaurants; and others.
Collection consists of the personal and professional correspondence, as well as case files, legal papers, and writings, of James Hinton Pou, Sr. Topics cover late 19th and early 20th century North Carolina politics and legal system, business and land development in North Carolina, the history of Raleigh, N.C. and Wake County, and the Pou-Bailey families of central North Carolina. Other items mixed in with the correspondence may include memorabilia, bills, and receipts.
Binder of black-and-white photographs highlighting Publicis' work for its clients. Companies represented include Bouchara, Brunswick Furriers, Colgate-Palmolive, Craven cigarettes (brand of Benson & Hedges), Lordson, Timor insecticide (SOFACO), and Weill clothiers. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
The Mordecai Purcell papers span the years 1778-1901 and contain correspondence, bills, receipts, business and legal papers, and a ledger relating to Quaker farmer Mordecai Purcell, his brother, John Purcell, and the Cather family (John Purcell married Adaline J. Cather).
The photographic work of Tom Rankin in this collection consists of 147 black-and-white and color photographs documenting the American South and China. Southern photographs were taken from 1980 to 2007, and focus on religious sites, rituals, and communities in the Mississippi Delta region; these prints form the largest series, "Sacred Space." Another body of work features portraits of Mississippi writer Larry Brown. A third body of work, "Portraits from the American South," offers views of Southern people, cultures, and landscapes in both color and black-and-white.
An additional documentary project from 2016 took Rankin to China, where he photographed semi-rural landscapes, often taken with high-rise buildings in the far distance or adjacent to industrial structures, as well as bridges and rivers, markets and live fish vendors, and a few street scenes.
Print sizes range from 11x14, 13x19, 16x20, and 20x24 inches, with many housed in window mats. Along with these prints, there are also 8x11 inch black-and-white matted contact prints. All titles were created by the photographer.
Selected photographs from this collection have been exhibited at the Center for Documentary Studies at Duke and other locations. A selection of Rankin's photographs was published in a book, Sacred Space: Photographs from the Mississippi Delta (1993).
Supporting materials in this collection include a digital audio recording of a talk by Rankin at the exhibit opening of work from the Sacred Space series, "Near the Cross: Photographs from the Mississippi Delta," as well as paper records related to his career and art practice, including book publications and book layouts. Also in the collection are two motion films, Dance Like a River (1985), directed by Barry Dorfeld and Tom Rankin, and Four Women Artists (1977), directed by Bill Ferris.
Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
Series consists of portraits of Mississippi writer Larry Brown with his family and friends in Mississippi. Arranged in original order as received; all titles were created by the photographer. Unless otherwise noted, all prints are 11x14 inch unmatted gelatin silver prints; three color pigment inkjet prints are also present.
Inkjet color print, 16x20 inches
Inkjet color print, 13x16 inches
Inkjet color print, 13x16 inches
This body of work comprises 62 black-and-white prints that document and reflect on spiritual and religious practices in the rural Mississippi Delta region of the Southern United States, with a focus on churches, pastors and congregations, cemetery sites, and baptisms. Selected images were published in "Sacred Space: Photographs from the Mississippi Delta," and exhibited in 2008 at Duke University as "Near the Cross: Photographs from the Mississippi Delta."
The artist offers his reflection on the project: "No single institution in the Delta region has had a more profound impact on the entire culture of the Mississippi Delta than the countless African-American churches that accent the landscape. The ubiquitous presence of these churches and their adjoining cemeteries and churchyards - these sacred spaces - constitutes a kind of three-dimensional iconography in an otherwise profane agricultural landscape. Landmarks to some, places of spiritual refuge to others, 'home church' to their devoted members, these centers of religious and social life have been planned, built, decorated, and maintained by local communities for heartfelt reasons...Thus the look and life of the church, inside and out, reflect the attitudes, beliefs, aspirations, and realities of the community...The church survives not only as a place of worship, but also as a symbol to the membership of a sacred home where a formal commitment to religion began, where family meets, and where forebears once gathered."
The prints in this series come in many sizes and processes: 11x14 inch unmatted black-and-white gelatin silver prints (box 2); 11x14 gelatin silver prints in 16x20 inch mats (box 7); 16x20 inch unmatted prints (boxes 4-5); and 16x20 inch gelatin silver prints in 20x24 inch mats (box 6). Prints in Box 3 are 8 1/2 x 11 contact prints, with slight variations, in 11x14 inch window mats; there are a few prints in this group that have larger finished print versions in the collection. Within size categories, prints are arranged in order as assigned by the photographer. All titles are original.
A large-format print version is also in collection.
A large-format print version is also in collection.
A large-format print version is also in collection.
A smaller contact print version is also in collection.
A smaller contact print version is also in collection.
A smaller contact print version is also in collection.
Same church as in print -0054, seen at more of a distance.
Images of individuals, cemeteries, businesses, and landscapes taken by Rankin in various Southern states, including Alabama, Georgia, Mississippi, and Virginia. Includes 16x20 inch unmatted vintage chromogenic prints (box 8) and 11x14 inch black-and-white gelatin silver prints in 16x20 inch mats (box 9). Arranged in original order as received. All titles were created by the photographer.
These black-and-white gelatin silver photographs were taken by Tom Rankin while in Kunshan, China in 2016 and printed by Rankin in 2018. Sizes of prints range from 11x14 (9), 16x20 (18), and 20x24 inches (3). Scenes include rural landscapes surrounding the Duke University Kunshan campus; canals and barges; a fish market; vegetable gardens tended by lone figures, often in the shadow of industrial structures; an abandoned theme park; and religious shrines.
Selenium toned contact print, 11x14 inches
Title (Chinese)
杜克昆山大学校园旁农田里的小棚子
Selenium toned contact print, 11x14 inches
Title (Chinese)
竖头港桥, 田里干枯的豆荚，后面是北京信息中心
Selenium toned contact print, 11x14 inches
Title (Chinese)
竖头港桥，北京信息中心，2016
Selenium toned contact print, 11x14 inches
Title (Chinese)
昆山杜克大学前的竖头港桥细节，2016
Selenium toned print, 14x11 inches
Title (Chinese)
巴城镇河边的鱼市，2016
14x11 inch print
Title (Chinese)
自行车和地图，昆山，2016
14x11 inch print
Title (Chinese)
鱼市，巴城镇，2016
14x11 inch print
Title (Chinese)
张新塘堤岸上挂着的鲜鱼，巴城镇，2016
14x11 inch print
Title (Chinese)
吴文光站在一家面馆前，巴城镇，2016
14x11 inch print
Title (Chinese)
河中打捞垃圾的驳船，巴城镇，2016
14x11 inch print
Title (Chinese)
鱼市，巴城镇，2016
14x11 inch print
Title (Chinese)
杜克昆山大学校园前田里劳作的人们，2016
14x11 inch print
Title (Chinese)
市场里摊主的一只狗，巴城镇，2016
Selenium toned print, 16x20 inches
Title (Chinese)
张新塘堤岸上的树木，巴城镇
Selenium toned print, 16x20 inches
Title (Chinese)
张新塘上的桥，巴城镇
Selenium toned print, 16x20 inches
Title (Chinese)
运河旁的蔬菜地，杜克昆山大学校园附近
16x20 inch print
Title (Chinese)
张新塘附近庙里的莲花灯
16x20 inch print
Title (Chinese)
农田里的自行车，杜克昆山大学附近
16x20 inch print
Title (Chinese)
张新塘周围的树木，桥和人们
16x20 inch print
Title (Chinese)
庙里的供桌，张新塘，巴城镇
16x20 inch print
Title (Chinese)
运河和管道，昆山市
16x20 inch print
Title (Chinese)
张新塘上的驳船
16x20 inch print
Title (Chinese)
废弃的主题公园，枯萎的豆荚，昆山市
16x20 inch print
Title (Chinese)
一片树林里树干都涂了白色，昆山市
16x20 inch print
Title (Chinese)
杜克昆山大学前的农田
16x20 inch print
Title (Chinese)
道路上晒的粮食，昆山市
16x20 inch print
Title (Chinese)
张新塘水边拴着的船
16x20 inch print
Title (Chinese)
花园和公寓，昆山市
16x20 inch print
Title (Chinese)
废弃的主题公园里的人工桥，昆山市
Selenium toned print, 16x20 inches
Title (Chinese)
农田，农夫和运河，昆山杜克大学校园附近
16x20 inch print
Title (Chinese)
旗杆上的大螃蟹标志
20x24 inch print
Title (Chinese)
庙里燃烧的蜡烛，张新塘，巴城镇
20x24 inch print
Title (Chinese)
从桥上看寺庙和河流，巴城镇
20x24 inch print
Title (Chinese)
鱼市，巴城镇
Series houses a gelatin silver 11x14 inch print of North Carolina author Tim McLaurin. Original title supplied by photographer.
Professional papers, including correspondence, writings, teaching materials, and other documents, stemming from Tom Rankin's long career in teaching and documentary arts, and serving as Director of the Center for Documentary Studies at Duke University. Includes a digital audio recording of his opening talk on February 27, 2008 at the Duke University Libraries exhibit of his work, Near the Cross: Photographs from the Mississippi Delta. This file has been mounted on the library server and is also available online through the Duke Libraries digital exhibits website. The papers have been given basic processing.
Directed by Bill Ferris and produced by Judy Peiser, Center for Southern Folklore, 1977.
Directed and produced by Barry Dorfeld and Tom Rankin, Oboade Institute for African Culture, 1985.
The collection was acquired as Rockett, Burkhead & Winslow (RBW) was closing in Spring of 2009. It consists of posterboards with sample advertisements; videotapes and DVDs of commercials; CDs with advertisements and other client-related materials; USB flash drives with RBW documents (these have been copied to Duke's Electronic Records server); and awards and trophies from various organizations for excellence in advertising.
The R.C. Maxwell Company Records span the years 1891-2001 and include photographs and negatives, videocassettes, ledgers and account books, scrapbooks, correspondence and legal papers relating to the company's operations in outdoor advertising. Photographs and negatives in several formats (film, glass negatives, polaroid prints) document billboard designs for a variety of advertisers as well as depicting billboard and electric sign structures and their location relative to the surrounding environment. Urban locations include Times Square in New York and the Atlantic City, N.J., Boardwalk, where a number of photographs also document the Miss America beauty pageant parade and other parades in which the R.C. Maxwell Company participated. A few photographs document billboard construction and erection; there are also photographs of the Maxwell family and of Maxwell company staff and employees. Scrapbooks contain images of billboards and wall paintings produced by the Maxwell company as well as by David L. Clark, a High Point, N.C. artist and sign painter who was R.C. Maxwell's guardian. Other scrapbooks document primarily Coca-Cola signs of the early 20th century, as well as World War I support efforts including the U.S. Food Administration (under the direction of Herbert Hoover), the U.S. Fuel Administration, and Liberty Bond campaigns. Companies represented in the collection include the Boardwalk Advertising Signs Co., C&B Electric Signs Co., Trenton Advertising Co., and Trenton Poster Advertising Co.
Approximately 15,000 photographs, dating up to around 1952, have been described in the searchable ROAD Database (Resource of Outdoor Advertising Descriptions). The numbered and indexed black-and-white photographs and negatives (along with a limited number of glass negatives) include images of billboard and electric spectacular executions (illuminated billboards); road shots showing the approach views to billboard structures; images of Maxwell advertising structures; and images of urban and rural billboard displays in various states, primarily Pennsylvania and New Jersey, including a number of images of Times Square in New York and the Atlantic City, N.J. boardwalk. Because the majority of photographs show the billboards in their surroundings, the images provide a snapshot of the people and buildings near the billboard.
Subseries scope/content note.
[Includes 1913 season pass to Steeplechase Park, Atlantic City, N.J.]
[Gurgen Wattles was a banker and financier primarily based in Omaha, Neb. He was appointed Federal Food Administrator for Nebraska during World War I, by the U.S. Food Administration.]
[On jobs for returning servicemen.]
[Use copies are in collection.]
Subseries scope/content note.
[large-format items removed from other series.]
[Includes R.C. Maxwell obituary notice, article on the murder of Harry Maxwell, and news reports of lawsuit brought by Chester Maxwell.]
[Some items are extremely fragile.]
Contains pictures of advertisements for Coca-Cola with a short description of where they are located. A table of contents in the beginning lists the pages of the pictures by city.
[Contains pictures of advertisements for Coca-Cola with a short description of where they are located. A table of contents in the beginning lists the pages of the pictures by city.]
[Contains pictures of advertisements for Coca-Cola with a short description of the city and the address of where they are located.]
[Various pictures of advertisements and photographs of people as well as business cards and other documents attached to it. Some of these have become loose in the scrapbook. Some billboards signed Clark Brothers Adv. Factors, High Point, N.C.]
[Contains pictures of people, some with descriptions of who they are and the location of the picture.]
[Contains mainly pictures of Coca-Cola advertisements with the location of each picture written on it with the year it was taken.]
[Contains newspaper advertisements by the R.C. Maxwell Co., Trenton, N.J.]
[Contains pictures of Food Conservation advertisements, some with the location of the picture with them.]
[Photographs of Food Conservation bulletins as well as a letter to Herbert Hoover to install the billboards and several photographs of advertisements for Liberty Bonds.]
[Photographs of Food Conservation advertisements with their locations and a description/short note out of Herbert C. Hoover's personal scrapbook as well as a letter to Herbert Hoover to install the billboards and several photographs of advertisements to buy Liberty Bonds.]
[Contains pictures of billboards for Food Conservation, Fuel and Coal Conservation, and Liberty Bonds]
[Contains various advertisements, pictures, cards, and other documents made for and by the R.C. Maxwell advertising company.]
[Contains pictures of advertisements for Pillbury Flour, King Midas Flour, Mavis, Purol Gasoline, Tiolene Oil, and Coca-Cola. The pictures are labeled with the location of the advertisement. This scrapbook also contains a smaller scrapbook inside of it with similar contents.]
[Contains pictures of advertisements for Coca-Cola with the address of where they are located.]
[Contains different newspaper advertisements in TIDE: The Newsmagazing of Advertising, Marketing, and Public Relations.]
Boxes DB1-DB3 contain prints made from glass negatives. Many are undated, but are grouped together at the beginning of the series because of their format.
The contents of Boxes DB4-DB6 are arranged according to the numbering systems used by the Maxwell Company between 1916-1920. Maxwell used several different methods for cataloging their photograph collection until around 1918, when the company settled on a single, sequential numbering system. The photographs numbered in this fashion begin in Box DB7. There is thus a chronological overlap among the material in Boxes DB5-DB9. All Maxwell Company numbers are listed immediately under the date of the photographs contained in the box.
In addition to the Maxwell Company number, items in the Photographs Included in the ROAD Database Series have been assigned ROAD database numbers. A database number beginning with an XXG prefix denotes images made from glass negatives; XXH denotes images primarily from the 1940s (World War II era) but also include a few items in the 1930s; and all other Maxwell images in the ROAD database begin with an XXX prefix. All ROAD database numbers are listed after the Maxwell numbers under each box number. The XXH numbers are out of database order, but are in chronological order. This reflects the fact that this set of photographs was processed separately under a slightly different organizational plan.
Where applicable, individual folders have been stamped indicating that a corresponding negative is available in the Negatives Series (Restricted) of this collection.
For items XXX3545-XXX3615, please see box DB45.
For items XXX3616-XXX3692, please see box DB46.
Items XXH0001-XXH0121 are duplicated in later XXH numbers, so are not listed in this finding aid. The duplicate numbers are noted in the ROAD database.
For items XXH0122-XXH0133, please see box DB60.
For items XXH0280-XXX0552, please see box DB58.
For items XXH0850-XXH0984, please see box DB59.
For items XXH3279-XXH3281, please see box DB60.
For items XXH1699-XXH1805, please see box DB68.
For items XXH2537-2659, please see box DB79.
For items XXH3295-XXH3549, please see box DB67.
For items XXH3550-XXH3827, please see box DB66.
For items XXH1477-XXH1540, please see box DB64.
For items XXH1541-XXH1698, please see box DB65.
For items XXH2537-XXH2659, please see box DB779.
For item XXH2602, please see box DB65.
For items XXX5319-XXX5358, please see box DB76.
Items in this series have not been included in the ROAD database. There is a slight overlap in dates (1951-1952) with items in the Photographs Included in the ROAD Database Series; however, there is no overlap in actual items between the two series. Photographs are listed in chronological order and according to the Maxwell numbering system.
Where applicable, individual folders have been stamped indicating that a corresponding negative is available in the Negatives Series (Restricted) of this collection.
Negatives from both the Photographs Included in the ROAD Database Series, and the Photographs NOT Included in the ROAD Database Series are found here. The series is divided into Glass Plate Negatives and Film Negatives, and follow a chronological order where possible. In general, boxes NN1-NN43 contain negatives from those photographs included in ROAD, and boxes NN43-NN87 contain negatives from those photographs NOT included in the ROAD database. However, a few negatives in boxes NN-NN43 are missing corresponding photographs for documentation in the ROAD database.
Manuscript volume includes thirty-two articles of varying lengths relating mostly to the political, economic, social, and ecclesiastical history of the French province of Dauphiné during the eighteenth century. No authors are given for any of the writings. The volume probably dates from the decade before the outbreak of the revolutions. Topics of the articles include: the boundary between Dauphiné and Sardinia; the government of Geneva in 1733; extracts from the registers of the Council of State about certain ecclesiastical matters; the boundaries of Dauphiné; methods of teaching at the University of Paris; population, emigration, and the Huguenots; the condition and productivity of Valence, Montélimar, Crest, and Die; commerce, silk and textile production; meat production; a history of fiefs; a petition from the nobles to the King, 1770; Princess Charlotte of Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel, wife of the Russian Tsarevich Alexius Petrovich; affairs concerning the parliament of Dauphiné; and other matters.
Volume contains thirty-two articles of varying lengths:
"Mémoire sur les limites de la Province de Dauphiné et sur les contestations existances ou qui peuvant s'élever entre les sujets de France et ceux de S.M. le Roy de Sardaigne à l'occasion des bornes de leurs territoires respectifs." (pp. 1-28)
"Mémoire sur la situation et le gouvernement de la ville de Genève en 1733." (pp. 29-56)
"Extrait des registrares du Conseil d'Etat privé du roi sur la requête presentée au Roi en son Couneil, par le sindie des réligieux minime du Convent de la Plaine près Grenoble en Dauphiné" (pp. 57-73).
"Arret du Conseil d'état du 14 Janveir 1760, qui déboute le sindie du chapitre de Gap et trois chanoines de la cassation d'un arret du Parlement de Grenoble du 30e Juillet 1756 qui a entretenu un traité fait pour dixme [?], attendu la prescription centenaire; extrait des registres du Conseil d'état privé du Roi." (pp. 74-82)
"Mémoire concernant la limitacion des provinces de Dauphiné et de Provence." (pp. 83-100)
"Methode d'enseigner suivie dans l'Université de Paris au sujet de la correspondance avec les collès de province, dressé en exécution de l'arret du 3 Sept., 1762." (pp. 193-231)
"Plan d'enseigment élémentaire sur la philosophie déposé par M. le Recteur de l'Université de Paris le 2e Janvier 1765." (pp. 162-192)
"Mémoire de l'Université de Paris au sujet de la correspondance avec les collèges de province, dressé en exécution de l'arret du 3 Sept., 1762." (pp. 193-231)
"Mémoire sur la population, son état actuel, si elle est diminuées, et les causes intérieures et extérieures; l'état des religionnaires, les émigrations qui se sont faites, le nombre de marriages, nuls actuellement suivant nos lois; et les remèdes les plus expédiens pour réparer le mal passé et le prévenir pour les tems avenir, la mandicité, le défaut de culture faute de bras, et enfin tout ce qui touche la population." (pp. 232-246)
"Mémoire sur la position des contrées de Valence, Montélimart, Crest, et Die, les Rivières qui y coulent, les secoure dont elles sont, la qualité des terres en général, leurs productions ordinaires et leurs cultures." (pp. 247-262)
"Mémoire sur le commerce, les manufactures de soye, de draperie; le monde quelles occupent, la quantité de matières quelles emploient, leurs débouchés, les moyens de les étendre et de les augmenter; les entraves actuelles du commerce, et les moyens de l'en dégager; dans les contrées du Valentinois Divis[?], et des Baronies en Dauphiné." (pp. 263-279)
"Mémoire concernant la viande de boucherie pour la ville de Grenoble." (pp. 281-210)
"Historie des fiefs." (pp. 311-378)
"Mémoire de la noblesse, présenté au Roy au mois de May, 1770." (pp. 379-389)
"Anecdote de la Princesse de Bruswick Wolfenbutel, épouse du Czar Witz Alexis, fils de Pierre le Grand." (pp. 389-393)
"Mémoire envoyé à Aix à la fin de 1771 aprés la résolution du parlement." (pp. 394-396)
"Mémoire envoyé à Toulousse en Janvier 1772, après la résolution du Parlement." (pp. 396-399)
"Mémoire envoyé à Dijon en Janvier 1772." (pp. 400-404)
"Mémoire concernant la jurisdiction en général des juges consuls, et en particulier celle de prévôtt des marchands et échevins de Lyon, sous le double rapport de juge consul, et de juge conservateur des privilèges des foires." (ff. 406-415)
"Motifs de l'arret du Parlement de Grenoble du 17 février 1778, entre les maires échevins et communauté de Courteson appellants du jugement du Bureau des Finances, Le Comte de Modene intimé d'autre." (ff. 415-419)
"Parlement de Dauphiné." (ff. 419-425)
"De la noblesse du Parlement de Grenoble." (ff. 425-427)
"Noms Romains dans le Dauphiné." (f. 428)
"Noms et armes." (f. 428)
"Ordres de Dauphiné." (f. 429)
"Devises." (ff. 430-432)
"Elections de Dauphiné." (ff. 432-433)
"Feux." (ff. 433-434)
"États de Dauphiné." (f. 435)
"Forests de Dauphiné." (ff. 436-437)
"Faucigni où Foucigny." (ff. 438-439)
"Au Roy et à nosseigneurs de son conseil (Les prévôt, dignitaires, chanoines, et chapitre de la ville d'Orange...contre Le Sieur Jean D'___chanoine en l'eglise cathédrale de la ville Bayonne)." (ff. 439-469)
The Haim Reingold Papers contain various correspondence, a number of grant proposals for his teacher training programs, professional service files, teaching and test materials, Reingold's 1938 dissertation, articles he wrote, and mentions of his name and work that he collected, as well as miscellaneous documents, some of which relate to his collaboration with his colleague, Karl Menger.
Associate Dean, University of Illinois
Correspondence regarding Basic Mathematics for Science and Engineering.
Correspondence with Chicago Daily News. Includes clippings about judging for youth Silver Knight awards in mathematics.
Includes clipping.
Includes pamphlet publications from Clarkson College.
Includes evaluation and evaluation materials.
Includes information about the institute.
Correspondence concerning Dr. Guralnick.
Noted as the son-in-law of Harold Straus.
Notes and correspondence regarding mathematics refresher course taught by Haim Reingold for Pullman Standard.
Correspondence and materials regarding the revision of Basic Mathematics.
Personal correspondence of Haim Reingold. Contains letters, notes, cards, and postcards.
Rejected proposal and documents pertaining to it.
Includes copies of speech prepared by Haim Reingold for the dinner.
Illinois Institute of Technology past proposal materials.
Includes note from son, Edward, who obtained this list.
Includes correspondence regarding payment, test questions, and copies of tests.
Includes correspondence regarding payment, test questions, and copies of tests.
Includes correspondence, letters of congratulation, gift contributors, and other notes.
Includes clippings, pamphlets, correspondence, and other documents.
Dissertation.
Some photographs are identified, many are not.
Notes, publications, and other documents from Haim Reingold's son, Edward.
Helen Skala's work is included.
Miscellaneous notes and other documents.
The images in this collection were taken by photographer Ron Reis from the 1950s to 1979 and from 2004 to 2014. The earlier body of work contains 289 black-and-white photographs, accompanied by negatives and contact sheets, and consists of documentary images taken by Reis during the 1960s and 1970s, primarily in Connecticut, London, and New York City, with a smaller number from major European cities. The later body of work contains 3,719 laser inkjet prints of black-and-white and color documentary images taken by Reis in the 2000s, with a majority of images dated 2012 to 2013. Most of these images are of New York City street scenes.
An avid amateur street photographer influenced by Cartier-Bresson, Helen Levitt, and Louis Stettner, Reis focused his camera on street scenes in the United States, Europe, and the Middle East during the 1960s, then in the 2000s. Favorite locations chosen by Reis include London's Hyde Park Speakers' Corner, Portobello flea market, and Trafalgar Square; New York's Bryant Park, Greenwich Village, and Washington Square; and market scenes in Connecticut and Jerusalem. Other images portray anti-Vietnam War protests in Bryant Park, gay pride and ethnic festivals and parades, amusement parks, and other street scenes.
The collection is arranged in three series: Photographs, Negatives, and Manuscript and Print Materials.
The Photographs Series is divided into two chronological subseries: 1954-1979 and 2004-2014. The first subseries contains 289 11x14-inch gelatin silver prints, accompanied by negatives and contact sheets. These black-and-white images were taken by Reis during the 1960s and 1970s, primarily in Connecticut, London, and New York City, with a smaller number from Athens, Barcelona, Como, Dublin, Florence, Jerusalem, London, Rome, and Venice. In general, each 8x10-inch contact sheet is followed by selected prints from the same roll. The prints and contacts are organized chronologically.
The second subseries contains 3,719 inkjet prints, both black-and-white and color, the vast majority measuring 11x17 inches. The prints, taken between 2004 and 2014, consist mostly of New York City street scenes as well as photographs from Reis's trips to Canada, Colorado, Connecticut, Vermont, Maine, Pennsylvania, Indiana, Illinois, Missouri, and North Carolina. These photographs are described at the folder level, with folders containing up to 80 prints.
The Manuscript and Print Materials include an early curriculum vita, some correspondence, exhibition fliers, negative sleeves, articles, and photo essays.
The Negatives Series is arranged by year and month, and titles were taken from original notes on the negative envelopes. They overlap with the prints in the collection to some degree, but there are also negatives present for images that are not currently in the collection.
Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
These exhibit-quality photographs are in black-and-white as well as in color. The earliest are darkroom prints, and are accompanied by contact sheets, while later work (after 2004) is most often in digital color and black-and-white inkjet format. They are printed in a range of sizes, chiefly 11x14 and 11x17 inches, but there are some also as small as 6 3/8 x 9 1/2 inches. The images are arranged by topical or geographical photo shoots, in chronological order, with original titles as assigned by Reis.
Folders house 289 prints and contact sheets. Each contact sheet has an identifier assigned by Reis and derived from the roll number, which notes the month and year plus a letter code (e.g., 6/1962G or 07-1962F). Each print also is identified by the roll id followed by a numeral (6/1962G-01). Print sizes vary from 6 3/8 x 9.5 inches up to 11 x 14 inches. All contact sheets are 8x10 inches. Identification number ranges on each folder represent the prints and contact sheets housed within. Arranged in order by id number.
This later body of work consists of over 3500 digital inkjet prints, both black-and-white and color, the majority of which measure 11x17 inches and are printed on Ilford Galerie Smooth Pearl 290gsm paper. They are arranged roughly in order of geographical location, with original group titles as assigned by Reis. Subjects focus on New York City street scenes, but there are also images from other states Reis visited in New England and in western U.S. (Colorado); there is also a set of images taken in Canada.
93 photographs
128 photographs
Series contains 66 envelopes containing 35 mm negatives and 13 envelopes of 120 mm negatives; each envelope holds one roll of film cut into strips. Images correspond to locales of prints in the collection, including Connecticut, Pennsylvania, New York City, and various countries in Europe, especially England (London), Greece, and Italy. There are also images from a trip to Jerusalem in the 1970s. Also among the images are Vietnam protest marches and other demonstrations, as well as early street scenes from urban areas and shots taken at an amusement park in Connecticut, "Savin Rock."
The negatives are arranged chronologically by year and month, and within by location and strip letter id, with undated items at the end of the series. Titles are taken from notes on the original envelopes. Some negatives represent images not currently among the prints or contact sheets.
Contains a short biographical narrative; curriculum vitae; correspondence from publishers and a museum; publications featuring Reis's photographic work; and publicity relating to Reis's exhibitions and lectures. Also includes a folder with samples of Reis's original negative envelopes with handwritten titles and dates. Folders arranged alphabetically by title.
The papers of Louisa E. Rhine span the years 1890 to 1983 and include journals, correspondence, writings, genealogical papers, notebooks, pictures, and miscellaneous papers relating principally to her work and research with her husband J.B. Rhine in the field of parapsychology, including the impact of this work on their personal and professional lives.
This impact is shown in Louisa Rhine's journals (1903-1982). The journal entries while not routinely made are nevertheless often lengthy, descriptive, and self-revealing. They document her school days at the University of Chicago, and her courtship, marriage, and relationship with J.B. Rhine. Parts of four journals describe their struggle to understand and to formulate a personal religious philosophy. Others describe their family life and incidents relating to the rearing of their four children. Their work in the Parapsychology Laboratory at Duke, as well as the Laboratory's relationship with the Duke administration are described. The journals include passages from some of J.B. Rhine's letters, interspersed with notes relating to some of Louisa Rhine's studies. Another journal includes excerpts from the other journals.
Correspondence forms the bulk of the collection, and is divided into four categories: personal, special, parapsychological, and business. The most voluminous is personal correspondence primarily from two of the Rhine's children, Sara (Rhine) Feather and Rosemary Rhine. Also included, however, are letters from other family members and friends.
The special correspondence consists of selected correspondence files arranged alphabetically by the correspondent's last name. The correspondents include: Ella (Long) Weckesser, Louisa Rhine's mother; Sylvia (Weckesser) Newcombe and Miriam (Weckesser) Whaley, sisters of Louisa Rhine; and Barry S. Siegal and William R. Birge, friends of the Rhines, who were officers during World War II.
The parapsychology correspondence includes letters from people in the United States and other countries who wrote to Louisa Rhine relating psychic phenomena either they or someone they knew had experienced. Some of these experiences were reported by Dr. Rhine in her publications.
Business correspondence is chiefly from other scientists in the field of psychical research, information relating to the work and funding of the Foundation for Research on the Nature of Man, and information concerning the publication and translation of some of Louisa Rhine's works.
The personal and business correspondence, reflects the Rhine's concerns about how psychical research would be carried out in the future. They wanted to make sure that an accurate accounting of the work that had begun at Duke under J.B. Rhine's guidance be told. To that end, Louisa Rhine worked during the last years of her life to finish the work recounting as she said J.B.'s attempt to find the 'something lost behind the ranges.' Her efforts resulted in Something Hidden which was published posthumously in 1983.
The business correspondence also describes the strained relationship between Duke University and the Rhines' work both at the Parapsychology Laboratory, when it was officially a part of Duke University, and later when the Laboratory was transferred into the Institute of Parapsychology under the auspices of the Foundation for Research on the Nature of Man.
The writings series contains both parapsychological and other works. The parapsychological writings include a chronological listing of J.B. and Louisa Rhine's works and of critiques and reviews of works by and about them. Also included is information about the Anpsi Project (psychic abilities in animals); miscellaneous notes kept by Louisa and J.B. Rhine; an index to articles in the Journal of Parapsychology (1937-1967); transcripts of interviews with J.B. Rhine; miscellaneous speeches, lectures, and articles relating to the work of the Rhines and others in the parapsychology field; and articles and memorials to honor J.B. Rhine after his death.
Other writings include short stories and poetry by Louisa and J.B. Rhine; anecdotes relating to the Rhines and their children; and attempts by the Rhines to write a work about Our Life Together. There are some fragments of short stories by Louisa Rhine, some giving the author's name as Louise Long a pseudonym adopted when they lived in Massachusetts. One of them "In the Crucible of Life" is apparently a true story about Louisa and J.B. Rhine, although their names have been changed in the story. A note in this section by the Rhine's daughter, Sara (Rhine) Feather (denoted by SRF) tells something about her mother's writings.
Louisa Rhine's journals overlap each other in terms of the time period covered; two are undated. There are gaps from one to several years in the entries.
Divided into four subseries: personal, special, parapsychological, and business. The personal correspondence is primarily from the Rhines' children, but also includes letters from other family members and friends. It is arranged chronologically. The special correspondence is arranged alphabetically by the correspondent's last name and chronologically within those files. Correspondents' letters in the parapsychological category are divided into two sub-categories: 1) case studies, arranged by the correspondents' last name and 2) miscellany, arranged chronologically. The business correspondence is arranged chronologically.
Divided into two categories: parapsychological and other writings. Within that arrangement, the papers are broken down into sub-categories that are chronologically and topically arranged. Included is information about the Rhines' writings and those of others.
Research about the Long and Weckesser families to whom Louisa Rhine was related, dating from 1702. Includes information about two works regarding the Weckesser family. Chronologically arranged.
Divided into two categories: 1) information relating to the Rhines' work and civic interests and 2) Louisa Rhine's psychical research notebooks and address books. Both categories are arranged chronologically.
Mainly Rhine family photographs, including those of J.B. Rhine, Louisa Rhine, and their children.
Collection comprises primarily scores, professional files, and correspondence that follow the development of Rhodes' compositional career. Name and Correspondence files consists mainly of correspondence between Rhodes and a variety of professional organizations, but also includes Rhodes' handwritten notes, some publicity materials, and other administrative documents. Personal Files includes unpublished works and music sketches from Rhodes' time as a student at both Duke and Yale, as well as some correspondence and biographical publicity materials more generally related to his career. Events and Programs consists of assorted concert programs from performances of Rhodes' music. Rhodes' music has been divided into four series based on genre: Chamber and Solo Instrumental Works, Choral and Solo Vocal Works, Operas and Oratorios, Orchestral and Wind Ensemble Works. The series include music sketches, drafts, revisions, original manuscripts, master sheets, piano reductions, published scores, conductor's scores, and when noted, instrumental parts.
Name and Correspondence files consists mainly of correspondence between Rhodes and a variety of professional organizations, institutions, performers, and other composers. Also includes Rhodes' handwritten notes, some publicity materials, and other administrative documents. Organizations include: American Composers Alliance, American Society of University Composers, BMI, Boston Opera, Bush Foundation, Carleton College, College Music Society, Contemporary Music Project, Duke University, C.F. Peters publishing, Ford Foundation, Kronos String Quartet, the Louisville Orchestra, the McLain Family Band, Minnesota Orchestra, National Endowment for the Arts, National Endowment for the Humanities, and the North Carolina Arts Council. Individuals include: Philip Brunelle, Joan Panetti, and Howard Richardson. Arranged alphbetically by folder title. Assorted correspondence arranged chronologically by decade.
Phillip Rhodes' professional correspondence with a variety of organizations, institutions, and individuals affiliated with those organizations, including: the Louisville Orchestra, Minnesota Orchestra, Kronos String Quartet, C.F. Peters publishing, BMI, Carleton College, Berea College, Duke University, the MacLain Family Band, College Music Society, American Composers Alliance
National Symphony Orchestra member.
Correspondence
"Some Thoughts on the Composer as Teacher" drafts and correspondence
Correspondence, newsletters, meeting minutes, brochure
Correspondence
Renamed Society of Composers. Includes correspondence, conference programs, form letters, administrative documents, newsletters, flyers, notes
Correspondence, directory, notes, memos
Correspondence, conference programs
Correspondence, notes, proposals
About Magic Pipe.
Application materials, correspondence, newsletters, flyer
Correspondence
Correspondence
Correspondence, memos
Correspondence
Receipts
Royalty statements
Correspondence, flyer, article
Correspondence, report, notes, magazine, program
Correspondence re: Minnesota Opera; includes programs
Correspondence, notes, reports, memos, receipts
Correspondence, notes, proofs
Correspondence
Correspondence, contracts, memos, newsletters, notes
Correspondence, memos, summer tour materials
Correspondence re: job offer, campus visit
Correspondence, notes, programs, flyer
Correspondence , programs newsletter
Correspondence, royalty reports
Correspondence, flyer
Correspondence, application materials
Correspondence, notes, flyer
Correspondence
Correspondence, drafts with edits
Correspondence, catalog
Correspondence, memos, reports, notes, application materials, meeting minutes and agendas, conference program
Correspondence, memos, conference programs
Potsdam, NY; Correspondence, programs, notes
Publicity materials
Correspondence, reunion booklet
Correspondence re: interview
Correspondence, proposal
Correspondence, notes
Correspondence, program
Correspondence, notes, pamphlet, newspaper clippings, re: The Arts in Liberal Arts Colleges
Correspondence, brochures, notes, application materials, newspaper
Correspondence, notes, memos
State meeting and conference documents
Correspondence, programs, travel documents, memos
Correspondence, flyers, memos, programs
Correspondence, notes
Correspondence, notes, flyers
Correspondence, letters from schools, pamphlets, notes, memos, budget materials, programs
Correspondence, notes, photographs, program
Correspondence, notes, program, budget memos
Correspondence, notes, proposal drafts, article
Newspaper clippings, magazines, flyers, program
Correspondence, notes, program re: alumni trip
Correspondence, flyer, notes
Correspondence, memos, notes, pamphlet
Correspondence, programs, program notes, newspaper clippings, photographs, news release, speech draft
Correspondence, summary report, application materials
Correspondence, notes
Correspondence
Correspondence, flyer re: guest composer
Correspondence, notes, program
Correspondence, booklets
Correspondence, memos, agenda re: Lyman conference
Correspondence, program, newspaper clippings
Correspondence, memos
Correspondence
Correspondence, program, notes
Correspondence, application materials, financial reports, receipts, ledger
Correspondence, application materials
Correspondence, application materials, drafts, notes
Correspondence, notes, program, booklet
Correspondence, articles, newspaper clippings
Correspondence, program, lecture outline
Correspondence, notes
Correspondence, program, publicity materials
Correspondence, notes, music sketches, published score re: Festschrift contribution for Donald Martino
Biographical information about Janes Rhodes.
Correspondance re: Broadway project
Correspoindence, program, flyers
Correspondence, notes, brochures
Correspondence, notes, program, article
Correspondence, memos, flyers, newsletters, meeting minutes, conference programs
Correspondence, programs, newsletter
ETSU contract.
Correspondence, newspaper clippings
Correspondence, brochure, newspaper clipping
Correspondence re: tenure review for Peter Lieuwen
Correspondence, contracts, permissions, credits
Correspondence, notes
Correspondence, programs, program notes
Correspondence, flyers, schedule, notes, scores, biographical profiles
Correspondence, program
Chicago, IL; Correspondence
Correspondence re: teacher placement
Personal Files includes unpublished works and music sketches from Rhodes' time as a student at both Duke and Yale, as well as some correspondence and biographical publicity materials more generally related to his career. Student works include brass choir arrangements for Duke Univeristy Chapel services and unfinished sketches for larger ensembles. Other materials include job application letters, correspondence with assorted publishers, official performance notices, and biographical materials that include newspaper clippings and documentation of Rhodes' professional activities. Grouped and arranged by material type.
Music sketches, scores, notes
Music sketches, early and student works
Manuscript copy
Music sketches
Music sketches; also includes orchestration assignment from Duke University of Sergei Prokofiev's Op. 12, no. 1
Biographical profiles, resumes, lists of performances, reviews, programs
Biographical profiles, newsletter
Correspondence, publicity and cover art materials
Taken in Louisville.
Events and Programs consists of assorted concert programs from performances of Rhodes' music from, beginning with his time as a student at Duke University. Also includes documents from his visit to Duke in 1984, with programs, lecture notes, and correspondence with Robert Ward. Arranged chronologically by decade.
Assorted performances of Phillip Rhodes' compositions
Correspondence with Robert Ward, programs, leture notes
Chamber and Solo Instrumental Works comprises music Rhodes wrote for instrumental chamber ensemble or solo instrument. Some works, such as Autumn Setting and Visions of Remembrance, include one or two vocal soloists within the ensemble. Some works include correspondence, program notes, newspaper clippings, and other publicity materials related to their performance. Most of the pieces include recordings, music sketches, full scores, original manuscripts, proofs, master sheets, and when applicable, complete parts. A few of the pieces also include Rhodes' personal copy with markings. Arranged alphabetically by title of piece.
Correspondence, programs, notes
Correspondence, programs, program notes
Irish fiddle tune.
Includes Phillip Rhodes' copy with markings
Correspondence, notes, programs
Correspondence
Correspondence, notes, programs
Includes program and newspaper clipping
Correspondence, program notes
Correspondence, notes, scores, publicity materials
Correspondence, programs, flyers
Includes complete parts for final movement
Includes original full score manuscript, master sheets, revised score and parts
Includes note from the composer
Correspondence, program notes, newspaper clippings
Correspondence
Correspondence, notes
Includes Phillip Rhodes' personal scores for recording sessions
Choral and Solo Vocal Works comprises music Rhodes wrote for choral ensemble or solo vocalist. Several choral works include a variety of ensemble accompaniments, such as percussion or wind quartet. Some choral works are written specifically for children's ensemble with Orff instrumentation, although most are for either mixed or women's chorus. Some works include correspondence, programs, and newspaper clippings. Most of the pieces include music sketches, drafts, choral scores, full scores, original manuscripts, and recordings. Some pieces include master sheets and proofs. Arranged alphabetically by title of piece.
Correspondence, programs
Includes alternate setting; Wedding Song, A Blessing for soprano, violin, and organ
Correspondence, programs, notes
Operas and Oratorios consists of a variety of materials related to Rhodes' operatic works. Most of the pieces include music sketches, libretto drafts, revised scores, original manuscripts, piano-vocal scores, orchestral scores, and conductor's scores. Some pieces also include recordings, as well as correspondence and other administrative documents related to production and staging. Arranged alphabetically by title of piece.
Includes correspondence with Robert Driver
Newsletter, programs, notes
Phillip Rhodes' copies with revisions
Includes Phillip Rhodes' copy with markings and original manuscript copy
Includes manscript copy with edits and conductor's marked score
Correspondence, memos, programs, budgets
Correspondence, programs, program notes
Orchestral and Wind Ensemble Works comprises music Rhodes wrote for larger orchestral ensemble or concert band. Most of the pieces include recordings, music sketches, full scores, revised scores, original manuscripts, and conductor's scores. Some pieces include piano reductions, master sheets, complete parts, correspondence, newspaper clippings, and other publicity materials. Arranged alphabetically by title of piece.
Correspondence, newspaper clipping
Includes correspondence, programs, program notes
Correspondence, program
Correspondence, program
Includes Phillip Rhodes' copy with markings
Correspondence, notes
Newspaper clippings, reviews, program, program notes
Includes newspaper clippings, programs, biographical information
Includes: Back up and Push, Bound for Gloryland, Come on out Tonight, High Hopes, Live it up Honey, Movin' on to Higher Ground, On the Road, One Step at a Time, Silver Creek, You Sing for me
Includes correspondence and program notes
Correspondence, notes
Collection documents John Ridlon's medical career and consists of medical case files, casebooks, articles and papers, correspondence, photographic materials, diplomas and ephemera, and medical illustrations relating to Ridlon's research and writings on orthopedics. Case files - a large majority of them pediatric - include tubercular infection of the joints, scoliosis and other deformities, spondylitis (spinal arthritis), and limb or joint injuries. There are hundreds of medical illustrations in the form of photographs mounted on card stock, photographic prints of early X-rays, and printed illustrations on loose sheets that show patients, symptoms or deformities, and treatments such as surgery, braces and casts; many of them were used by Ridlon in his published works.
Among the bound volumes are six casebooks (1889-1892); four letterbooks (1873-1903); an autograph manuscript, "Some comments on the principles and practice of Hugh Owen Thomas" (undated); a scrapbook of figures and illustrations (undated); three volumes composed of reprint clippings and manuscript notes (undated); and a bound volume of 88 reprints (1888-1923). There are also many diplomas and certificates received by Ridlon from various educational institutions.
Correspondents include: R. Osgood, A. Steindler, P. D. Wilson, R. K. Ghormley, J. E. Goldthwait, A. B. Judson, R. W. Lovett, H. W. Orr, S. W. Mitchell, H. Cushing. In addition to discussing medical cases and research, letters also document Ridlon's involvement with two charitable institutions: the Home for Destitute Crippled Children (Chicago) and the Country Home for Convalescent Children.
Accompanying the professional papers is a set of 118 black-and-white photographs taken during Ridlon's service as a surgeon in the U.S. Army Medical Corps during World War I. The photos were taken by several photographers at a medico-military training camp in Plattsburgh, N.Y., around 1916. Ridlon reported on these experiences at a medical conference in 1917 and used a set of 67 glass lantern slides to illustrate the lecture, 49 of which survive in the collection; a reprint of this paper is also available in the collection.
In the same series there is a set of 30 glass plate negatives and still image nitrate film negatives (restricted); these materials are closed to use but contain duplicate or similar images found in the print photographs. Finally, there are several portraits of Ridlon, chiefly photographs taken in his office and examination room, taken in 1911. A glass plate negative with a bust portrait of Ridlon rounds out the photographic series.
The collection also contains several folders of ephemera, early professional diplomas and certificates, letters of recommendation for Ridlon's Chicago appointment in 1892, and his obituary.
Acquired as part of the History of Medicine Collections at Duke University.
Bound holograph manuscripts containing case notes on orthopedic patients with a variety of complaints, including descriptions of each case and patient data such as name, age, sex, address, dates of consultations, diagnosis, treatment, and outcome. Includes several one-page manuscripts laid in as well as outlines made of patient body parts showing measurements of the actual curvature and size of affected areas. There are many other patient case studies in folders housed in the Patient Case Files Series. Medical records are open for research use.
Contains correspondence, as well as associated account sheets, contracts, meeting minutes, deeds, loan agreements, bylaws, printed material, bills and receipts, reports, some photographs, reprints, clippings, and typed manuscripts. Correspondents include: R. Osgood, A. Steindler, P. D. Wilson, R. K. Ghormley, J. E. Goldthwait, A. B. Judson, R. W. Lovett, H. W. Orr, S. W. Mitchell, H. Cushing. Letters also document Ridlon's involvement with two charitable institutions: the Home for Destitute Crippled Children and the Country Home for Convalescent Children.
Bound outgoing correspondence in both typed and holograph scripts, containing transcriptions of correspondence by Ridlon concerning financial and professional matters.
Bound outgoing correspondence written in both typed and holograph scripts, containing transcriptions of correspondence by Ridlon concerning financial and professional matters.
Contains several hundred black-and-white images taking the form of photographs (mounted on cardstock), early X-rays, and printed illustrations, all relating to Ridlon's case studies and research on orthopedics. Many were used in his publications from the 1880s to the 1920s. The photographer may have been John Ridlon or an assistant. These historic medical images are open to use.
Images show unidentified patients with deformities and abnormalities, treatments (including braces, casts, and sometimes surgery), and outcomes. Many are pediatric patients. Original folder titles have been retained.
Other photographs in the collection are found in the Photographs Materials series and are related to Ridlon's medical training at a military base in Plattsburgh, N.Y., in 1916; also includes portraits of John Ridlon.
Includes one reproduction of early chest/shoulders X-ray. Also includes set of hand-inked reproductions of 16th-century treatments. All undated except 1911 illustration. Originally part of the Trent Manuscripts Collection, John Ridlon papers.
Includes photo prints of early X-rays.
Bound scrapbook containing illustrations of braces and other tools for treating patients with orthopedic complaints, diagrams illustrating the use of these tools, and photographs and drawings of affected persons. Images were probably used in Ridlon's published writings.
Folders of case summaries maintained by Dr. Ridlon, most of them dating from 1900 to 1915. At least half are pediatric cases. Cases include Pott's disease (tuberculosis of the spine), spondylitis, scoliosis (congenital and idiopathic), tubercular infection of the joints, other joint diseases and injuries, and congenital deformities.
Case summaries are typically one to two pages long, and include patient names, ages, residence, family history, symptoms, measurements, treatment, and outcome. Occasionally other documents such as referral letters and records of tests such as urinalyses are attached. These historic medical records are open to research.
Originally part of the Trent Manuscripts Collection, John Ridlon papers.
The last folder consists of a report titled Investigation of the value of tuberculin in the treatment of tuberculous joint disease at the Home for Destitute Crippled Children [Chicago], circa 1920.
Contains 118 black-and-white photographs of the first medical military training camp at Plattsburgh, N.Y., circa 1916. Camp scenes include cook stations, mules and wagons, a water truck, machine gun pits, headquarters tents, officers and privates, and scenes from drills and reviews of infantry and cavalry. Several photographs show Ridlon during litter drills. Most of the prints are captioned, with some names present on the backs.
Accompanying the photo prints is a set of 49 lantern slides bearing black-and-white positive images of scenes from the Plattsburgh medical camp, most if not all of which are duplicated in the photographic prints in this same series. The original slide set numbered 67 slides. Accompanying the slides is a lecture script presented by John Ridlon at a conference in 1917, describing the camp and the American preparedness for war with respect to military medicine. The lecture text is a photocopy from reprint #82 in the volume Collected Papers of Dr. John Ridlon, also found in this collection).
Also in this series are 30 glass plate negatives which, like the lantern slides, contain duplicate images found in the photographs folders.
A set of nitrate negatives originally in the collection was digitized and then deaccessioned in 2023. Those images are only available in digital format.
The series is rounded out by three postcards from the camp at Plattsburgh; a glass plate negative bearing a bust portrait of Ridlon; three photographic studio portraits of Ridlon; two photographs of him seated at a desk in his office, and two of him in his examination room, one of which is a duplicate. A wall calendar seen in one image shows 1911 as the probable year the clinic photographs were taken.
Two portraits from around 1910 measure 7x10 and 8x11 inches, while the bust-length profile photograph from 1932 measures 4.75x6.75 inches.
Photographs are each mounted on board and measure 8x10 and 9x11 inches. One is a duplicate.
Positive photographic portraits of John Ridlon are available in the collection.
These lantern slides contain positive images of a military-medical training camp in Plattsburgh, N.Y., where Ridlon spent some time probably in 1916. The accompanying lecture text indicates there were originally 67 lantern slides; 49 survived and are in this series. About half were created for Ridlon by the Victor Animatograph Corporation of Davenport, Iowa (founded in 1910).
Duplicate images for most or all of these slides can be found in the photographs series. Slides measure 3 1/4 x 4 1/2 inches and are in excellent condition.
Series includes handwritten and typed manuscripts describing Ridlon's research into surgical and therapeutic treatments for conditions such as scoliosis, spondylitis, and other diseases or deformities. Also includes several folders of ephemera, letters of reference, diplomas and certificates. Ridlon's obituary is also included.
Handwritten manuscript (on the reverse of Principles and Practice of Orthopaedic Surgery, by Philip Lewin). Hugh Owen Thomas was a Welsh surgeon considered the father of orthopaedic surgery in Britain. Typed versions of the manuscript can be found in the Correspondence Series.
Bound typescript manuscript. Pages of text are mounted on to the manuscript, which is an essay by Ridlon on the congenital disorder talipes, also known as clubfoot, including illustrations of presentations of the disorder, possible treatments, and photographs of patients with the disorder.
Bound typescript manuscript with holograph notes containing writings on the general practice of orthopedics as well as diagnosis and treatment of spondylitis and scoliosis.
Bound notebook written in holograph script containing writings and collected research on cases of spondylitis including causes and cures, as well as clippings pasted in, illustrated notes laid in showing spinal curvature of patients with Ridlon's notes, and two photographs of a dissection of a patient with the disorder. Includes multiple pages of both holograph and typescript notes laid in.
8 pages, including some editorial marks.
Bound volume of 88 numbered reprints, signed by John Ridlon and dated 1925. Includes typed index of titles. Reprint #82, a paper given by Ridlon at a conference in 1917, refers to the World War I U.S. Medical Corps training camp in Plattsburgh, N.Y., featured in the photographs in this collection.
Originally part of the Trent Manuscripts Collection, John Ridlon papers.
Originally part of the Trent Manuscripts Collection, John Ridlon papers.
These documents date from Ridlon's earliest professional years, before his appointment to the Chicago Medical School. As the letters and diplomas document, Ridlon matriculated from Tufts College, and went on to serve in New York City at the New York Orthopaedic Dispensary and Hospital, St. Luke's Hospital, and Vanderbilt Clinic; he also served at Bellevue Hospital as attending surgeon of the Orthopedic Division (outpatient) from 1887-1889.
American Orthopedic Association (AOA) meeting programs, 1888, 1889, 1929; AOA banquet menus, 1899, 1906, 1909. Also includes a humorous play program and an undated business card from the N.Y. Orthopaedic Dispensary and Hospital. Also includes three copper printing plates for Ridlon's business card and other ephemeral prints. Originally part of the Trent Manuscripts Collection, John Ridlon papers.
Originally part of the Trent Manuscripts Collection, John Ridlon papers.
Originally part of the Trent Manuscripts Collection, John Ridlon papers.
A variety of diplomas from educational institutions, received by John Ridlon during his career. Includes diplomas from Vermont Commercial College (1868), Goddard Seminary, and Columbia University.
The Alfred Landon Rives Papers consist primarily Rives's correspondence, relating to his attendance at the École nationale des ponts et chaussées, Paris; his military and civilian careers; family matters and social, political, and economic affairs in Virginia; and the Washington Peace Convention (1861). Includes a diary (1829-1831) of Rives' mother, Judith Page Walker Rives, concerning life in the diplomatic community in Paris, travels on the continent, French social life and customs, the Revolution of 1830, U.S. political developments, and other matters. Also contains three ledgers of Francis E. Rives, U.S. Representative. Correspondents include Francis E. Rives, Julia Page Rives, and Edouard Schwebelé.
Collection consists largely of historical essays and archives written and collected by Cecil Roberson to document the history of Baptists in Nigeria. Roberson's own history writings are complemented by photocopies and reproductions of the Thomas Jefferson Bowen and Lurana Henrietta Davis Bowen Papers, as well as a series of correspondence written to and from Louis M. Duval between 1917 and 1934.
A series of research essays, notes, and writings created by Cecil Roberson recounting the history of various Baptist missionary projects in Nigeria and Lagos. A subseries, The Papers by Cecil Roberson, represent the Robersons' arrangement of the materials prior to their arrival at the Rubenstein Library.
Includes a letter from Cecil Robinson regarding an archival collection of Nigerian Baptist missionary materials, 1966.
Research and preparatory materials collected and created by the Robersons about the Rev. Thomas Jefferson Bowen and his wife, Lurana Henrietta Davis Bowen; also includes research papers written by others (unnamed) in honor of the Robersons.
Photocopies and reproductions of correspondence to and from Louis M. Duval, a missionary from St. John, New Brunswick, Canada, who served in Oyo, Nigeria, in the early twentieth century.
The collection is divided into scripts, publicity, and scrapbooks. All scripts are authored by Buck Roberts. Many have hand-written edits and multiple drafts. Titles include: The Dukes, A Lost Day is Hard to Find, The Lost Peace (or Last Peace), and Tomorrow and Today. Most scripts are undated. Publicity photos, programs, and clippings are for productions involving or produced by Roberts while he was a member of various groups. Press kits for The Dukes are included as are photos of productions and actors. The scrapbooks range from his childhood years to his documentation of seasons of Triangle Theater which Roberts founded and directed.
Scripts authored by Buck Roberts often with edits and multiple drafts. Most undated.
2 copies of the final revised stage version and 1 copy of the final stage version with a dedication to Duke University Library staff (dated 1964 December 19).
3 drafts
Elsewhere titled The Divine Sarah : Life of Sarah Bernhardt.
3 copies, drafts 1 and 2.
3 versions
Folder 1 labelled "extra copies;" folder 2 labelled "music and lyrics."
2nd draft
4 copies/drafts
5th copy subtitled A Musical Comedy in Screenplay.
2 copies
Includes press kits for Roberts' most well-known play The Dukes, also programs from productions, clippings of press releases and reviews, and photos of productions and actors.
Folder 1 contains a bound kit with script.
Scrapbook of childhood and youth and other books regarding Roberts' efforts in various local theaters.
School reports and pictures from Roberts' earliest days. Roberts was often honored and deeply involved during his time at East Durham Junior High and Durham High School (1941-1947). While a student at Duke University Roberts was a member of Theta Alpha Phi the National Honorary Dramatic Fraternity, Pi Kappa Phi, and Omicron Delta Kappa. Contains programs from productions by the Hoof 'n' Horn, Duke Players, Duke Summer Theatre, and Carolina Playmakers in which Roberts took part.
Pictures from performances in which Roberts was involved. Productions by: East Durham Community Players, Durham Theater Guild, Duke University Singing and Dancing Choruses, Duke Players, Hoof 'n' Horn, Laguna Professional Summer Stock (California), Carolina Playmakers, Carriage House Theater, Allied Arts Follies, Durham Star Professional Playhouse, and Duke University Wesley Players.
Roberts was Coordinator in 1958 and Producer in 1959 for "North Carolina's First Professional Star-System Summer Theatre." Clippings and pictures regarding visiting actors and programs from productions. Two very similar copies exist (one in box 7 and the other in box 8).
Clippings from the shows produced under the auspices of the Triangle Theater. Variously referred to as the Triangle Theater, Triangle Professional Theater, Triangle Professional Summer Theater, or Triangle Summer Theater.
Clippings and photographs from productions written and/or directed by Roberts. Presented at the YWCA Auditorium in association with the Durham Theater Guild. Two very similar copies exist (one in box 8 and the other in box 9).
Photographs from Triangle Theatre and Triangle Theatre Children's Troupe productions.
The Louis H. (Louis Harry) Roddis Papers span the years 1823 to 1990 with the bulk of the materials dating from the 1970s and 1980s. The collection reflects Roddis's distinguished career in the general field of energy with emphasis on policy and strategic issues. Topics include electric power, gas resources, petroleum, water power, energy conservation, the energy crisis of the 1970s, and alternative energy sources. Primarily documented in the collection are developments with nuclear power and within the nuclear industry. The collection also reflects Roddis's participation in a variety of public service, charitable, industrial, and trade organizations. Materials in the collection include reports, speeches, testimonies, rebuttals, annual reports, articles, clippings, studies, photographs, meeting minutes and agendas, memoranda, legal briefs, writings, and printed materials. The collection documents his involvement with the US government on various energy issues, Roddis's interest in the human safety aspect of the energy industry, his professional interests in utility companies of which he was a board member, and his private work as a consulting engineer. Correspondents include US government agencies, US and international utility company executives, and colleagues from professional organizations. US government agencies and committees represented in the collection include the Department of Energy, the Energy Research Advisory Board, the Atomic Industrial Forum, the Federal Energy Administration, the Atomic Energy Commission, and the Energy Research and Development Administration.
The series in the Roddis papers document following broad topics: energy sources and alternatives, nuclear energy, issues of utility companies, US energy policies, professional and government energy organizations, and Roddis's work as a consulting engineer and authority in the energy field.
Energy sources and alternatives are topics included in the following series: Fossil Energy; Solar Energy; Oceans and Policy; Energy Conservation; Energy Sources; and Transportation Energy.
Series which pertain to nuclear energy include Atomic Energy History; Fast Breeder Reactors; Nuclear Power Industry; Environmental Radioactivity; Nuclear Fuel Cycle; Waste Disposal and Proliferation; Floating Nuclear Ship Power / PropulsionPlants; Nuclear Power Plant Siting; Three Mile Island Accident; Human Factors; and Chernobyl.
The US Utility History; Consolidated Edison History; International Utilities; US Utility Rates and Financing; Transmission and Distribution; Detroit Edison; Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority; Puerto Rico Water Resource Authority; Long Island Lighting Company; and Washington Public Power Supply series relate to key issues for utility companies.
The Energy Policy; Energy Statistics; Science and Technology Policy; and Energy and the Environment series cover US energy policies.
Professional and government energy organizations represented in the collection are found in the following series: Institute of Nuclear Power Operations; Committee on Nuclear and Alternative Energy Systems; Energy Research and Development Administration; Energy Research and Development Planning; Energy Research Advisory Board (ERAB); Panel and Committee Reports of ERAB; Other Government Agencies Material; Other; Electric Power Research Institute; Atomic Industrial Forum; North American Electric Reliability Council; Edison Electric Institute; Committees and Panels; Gas Research; and Renewable Energy Institute.
The Pacific Sierra; Anti-Trust Cases; International Nuclear Energy Systems Company; Exxon; J. V. Neely; Gould; Speeches; Donavan Hamester and Rattien; Contracts; John J. McMullen Associates; Berlin Energy Congress; Testimonies and Depositions; and Liquefied Natural Gas Imports seriesdocument Roddis's work as a consulting engineer and authority in the energy field.
The material in the Miscellaneous Series overlaps with other series found throughout the collection. Topics include nuclear energy, the utility industry, professional organizations, marine energy, reports from power plants and utility companies such as the North Carolina Energy Corporation, energy conferences, and the U.S.S. Nautilus which Roddis was involved in designing.
Includes reports, speeches, press releases, notes, and testimonies about nuclear power plants, the development of reactors, and the evolving opinion of nuclear energy in the 1970s. Arranged by Roddis's index codes.
Comprised of a speech discussing the complex phases of the energy issue, a bibliography of the American Gas Association Library's major sources, and a study proposal on the ability of the utility industry to supply electrical needs for the nation. Arranged by Roddis's index codes.
Materials include articles, reports, booklets, press releases, annual reports, correspondence, circulars specially bound, and items collected during Roddis'ss employment at Consolidated Edison (Con Edison). Specific topics include Con Edison lawsuits, long range planning, power failures and investigations to prevent blackouts, stockholders and board members' packets containing meetings agendas, quarterly financial and operating reports, meeting minutes, and financial statistics. Also includes Roddis's correspondence files from his service as President and Vice Chairman. Arranged by Roddis's index codes.
Contains speeches, writings, reports, press kits, articles, booklets, writings, studies, charts, graphs, clippings, press releases, and circulars relating to the United States energy policies. Materials discuss energy resources, clean energy, presidential programs and stands on energy issues, and the need to practice conservation and to locate new energy supplies. Also covered are possible energy futures and ways to make these futures happen, assessments of the US and World energy situation and outlook, consumption patterns, gas technologies, evolution of nuclear power, international cooperation on nuclear power, problems and prospects of nuclear power. Includes a speech by Roddis and statements by United States Presidents on energy issues and President Ford's January 1975 State of the Union Address. Arranged by Roddis's index codes.
Consists of annual reports, press releases, and reports on comparative statistical data of consumers, sales, expenditures, and future needs of utility companies in the Northeast and the Great Lakes area. Arranged by Roddis's index codes.
Comprised of articles, pamphlets, reports, speeches, writings, and booklets pertaining to energy and its various effects on the environment, human and economic consumption of energy, the effects of energy emissions waste, and discusses the conflict between the human consumption of energy and the effects it has on the environment. Arranged by Roddis's index codes.
Includes correspondence, reports, articles, a presentation by Roddis before the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy, and correspondence and reports of the Atomic Industrial Forum's Breeder Policy Committee of which Roddis was a member. This series looks at different types of breeder reactors and the usage of nuclear energy to supply future projected energy needs.
Comprised of reports, speeches, articles, correspondence, booklets, and clippings discussing nuclear energy. Topics include dangers and safety needs when working with radiation, effects on the environment and the public, storage and waste disposal management, health issues, and the safety of nuclear energy as a power source. This series also portrays a concern that civilian nuclear fuel cycles would be used for nuclear weapons proliferation. Arranged by Roddis's index codes.
Includes reports from the Energy and Environment Systems Division of the Department of Energy by J. G. Ashbury and others. Also contains articles, clippings, speeches, writings, bulletins, pamphlets, and correspondence regarding conservation, waste disposal, and consumer responsibility to energy management. Discusses integrated energy systems, industrial cogeneration, automotive fuel economy, conservation in public buildings, conservation research, and needs of the future. Includes materials from a NewYork energy conservation workshop. Looks at cogenerations based district heating as ademonstrated mechanism for reducing oil and gas use in the heating market, the potentials of solid wastes as a utility fuel, resource recovery, renewable energy, and improved efficiency. Arranged by Roddis's index codes.
Contains reports, articles, clippings, case studies, writings, speeches and correspondence pertaining to fossil energy uses. Topics include coal, natural gas, petroleum, hydrogen, and carbon dioxide, impacts on the evironment from using fossil energy sources, and the supply and demand of such resources. Arranged by Roddis's index codes.
Contains articles, clippings, congressional reports, speeches, and writings. Also includes reports, pamphlets, and Bruce Anderson's Solar Energy in Building Design manuscript. Covers views and uses of solar energy especially throughout the home, federal government policy, solar utility systems, architecture, prototypes, feasability, and atmospheric and environmental effets. Arranged by Roddis's index codes.
Includes pamphlets, reports, articles, clippings, speeches, correspondence, newsletters, and statements and testimonies before joint committees. Documents government involvement in the nuclear industry, industry standards and developments, comparisons with electricity and coal fuels, improving efficiency and construction of nuclear plants, and the economic perspectives of benefits and costs of using nuclear power. Roddis collected materials pertaining to use of nuclear power internationally, especially Canada. Also includes information from the Atomic Industrial Forum (AIF) workshop on reactor construction and operation, AIF newsletters and booklets on nuclear safety, managing waste, and radiation, and a copy of President Ford's statement on nuclear energy. Arranged by Roddis's index codes.
Includes articles, booklets, writings, speeches, reports, and statements before Senate committees. This series focuses on alternative sources of energy including water, fusion, geothermal energy, and satelite power stations, and discusses continued development of current technology such as gas turbines and research and development in atomic, nuclear, and particle physics. There is also a significant emphasis on off-shore pipelining and ships, especially Navy ships. Arranged by Roddis's index codes.
Consists of articles, reports, booklets, and studies. Topics look at the benefits of electric and battery-powered cars and ways to combat fuel shortages by substituting coal power or battery power in vehicles, discuss air pollution from emissions, and turbine electric cars. Arranged by Roddis's index codes.
Consists of articles, reports, and study reports. Discusses ocean thermal energy conversion, the possibility of power plants or power reactors in the ocean, advantages to ocean siting, and power generation from ocean currents. Includes a proposal for a barge-mounted nuclear power plant, reports by architectural and marine companies, and surveillance reports of marine locations for such plants. Arranged by Roddis's index codes.
Includes reports, articles, pamphlets, and correspondence concerning various aspects of United States and foreign policies for science and technology. Considers economic factors and especially discusses nuclear technology. Arranged by Roddis's index codes.
Includes Roddis's notes, correspondence, reports, pamphlets, articles, and maps. Subjects include ocean pollution, off-shore oil drilling and storage, ocean exploration, and clean energy. Correspondents include the U.S. Department of Commerce and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Arranged by Roddis's index codes.
Consists of reports on nuclear energy centers, evaluations of sites for such centers, and correspondence concerning underwater nuclear plants. Arranged by Roddis's index codes.
Includes booklets, phamphlets, presentation notes, articles, and writings. Discusses energy planning for the future, energy storage, management and contains reviews of energy consumption and energy resources (fusion, solar, and geothermal). This series also contains membership lists, summaries of past meetings, and present and past panels of the Energy Research Advisory Board. Arranged by Roddis's index codes.
Includes correspondence, articles, reports, maps, writings, pamphlets, international government documents, photographs, and Roddis's notes on international utility plants. Subjects cover atmospheric pollution, progress with nuclear power, fuel sources, environmental costs and considerations, safety factors, and the uses of electric power, nuclear energy, uranium fuels, and atomic energy. Arranged by Roddis's index codes.
Consists of reports, articles, statements before the Senate on the economics of energy, and an Edison Electric Institute (EEI) conference paper on electricity and the US utility system. Materials look to the future of electric power, the impacts of price change, consumer demand, plant capacities, pricing regulations, and financial problems of the electric utility companies. Arranged by Roddis's index codes.
Contains a map of transmission lines, reports on costs and other aspects of transmission systems, and underwater cables for electric transmission systems.
Materials include ERAB reports, articles, correspondence, memoranda, agenda, transcripts of proceedings, meeting minutes, Roddis's notes, maps, photographs, trip iteneraries, clippings, charts, and newsletters. Roddis was a board member of the Energy Research Advisory Board (ERAB) which is a division of the Department of Energy (DOE). ERAB studies and analyzes various energy concerns and advises the DOE on such matters. Roddis generated these materials during his tenure with ERAB, therefore, the materials primarily pertain to meetings, ERAB's processes, organization, amd member lists, studies performed by various panels, conferences, investigations, and dealings with the DOE. Topics concern a range of energy issues including nuclear weapons, petroleum reserves and regulatory activities, magnetic fusion, space propulsion, waste disposal, transportation, coal, effective uses of energy, economic policy evaluatin, policy and fiscal guidance for energy projections, acid rain, importance of research, environmental effects, solar energy, and energy safety. Correspondents include executives from US and international utility companies, federal government officials from DOE and the Departmaent of the Interior, and members of ERAB. Arranged by Roddis's index codes.
Consists of reports, drafts, proposals, meeting minutes and agendas, correspondence, booklets, transcripts of proceedings, graphs, annual reports, studies, articles, pamphlets, and notes. The panels and committees represented in this series include two Fusion Panels, 1980 and 1983), a Solar Panel, Advanced Isotope Separation Processes Committee, a Conservation Panel, Federal Energy Research and Development Priorities Committee, Gas Research Institute Budget Review Committee, National Laboratories Panel, a Biomass Panel, Construction/Development Project Management Committee, National Laboratories Committee, University--Department of Energy Relationships Panel, Light Water Reactor Safety Research and Development, and Basic Energy Materials. There exists in this series two studies of the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory and Lawrence Livermore Laboratory both of which are weopon labs. Subjects covered by these panels include effective management of research and development materials, discussess university researchers and industry research relationships for economic benefit of the nation, appropriate roles and missions of labs, scientific and technological capabilities of labs, DOE policies and procedures, effective uses of labs in meeting energy objectives, defense waste processing facilities, alternative fusion programs, and magnetic fusion energy. Arranged by Roddis's index codes.
Includes correspondence, articles, booklets, drafts, statements by the Edison Electric Institute, notes and reports illustrating Roddis's involvement with the investigation of the accident. Also contains the "Kemeny Report" which looks at every aspect of the incident, reports to the President's Commission on the accident at Three Mile Island, and a subpoena for Roddis and his deposition. The materials document the nuclear accident and its cleanup, look at public health issues, training of personnel to work at a nuclear plant, control issues, and the effect the Three Mile Island Accident had on nuclear power plant safety. Arranged by Roddis's index codes. Series continues in boxes 98-100.
This series documents three anti-trust cases brought before the Securities and Exchange Commission: United Technologies Corporation (UTC) v. Babcock and Wilcox Company (B&W), United States of America v. United Technologies Corporation, and Columbus and Southern Ohio Electric Company (C&S) v. American Electric Power (AEP). The materials consist of memorandums and court reports, transcripts of proceedings, Roddis'ss testimonies in each case, affidavits, clippings of the trials, supporting documents to the cases, notes, briefs, and decisions. B&W brought UTC to court because of UTC's attempted takeover. US took UTC to court for its proposed tender offer for all of the outstanding common stock of the B&W. C&S v. AEP concerns AEP wanting to exchange its common stock shares with C&S's outstanding common stock shares. Arranged by Roddis's index codes.
Consists of articles, correspondence, reports, writings, studies, notes, press releases, legislation, and congressional records pertaining to fertilizers, government regulation of energy prices, the structure of agencies and their policies. Government agencies include the Federal Energy Administration (FEA), the Department of Energy (DOE), the Atomic Energy Commission (AEC), and the Federal Energy Research and Development Administration. Arranged by Roddis's index codes.
This series contains Roddis's unpublished draft The Electric Utility Decisions Process As It Bears on the Selection of Nuclear Power Systems of Different Types which he researched and wrote to assist the Library of Congress in the preparation of a report on aspects of alternative breeder fuel cycles. Included also are reports, correspondence, legal briefs, cases, articles, booklets, writings, and maps that he used to support his data in the Library of Congress report, miscellaneous information on Florida Power and Light, and his consultant work for Electric Power Research Institute. Arranged by Roddis's index codes.
Contains reports, correspondence, schedules, and printed materials concerning human safety factors in nuclear reactors and electric power dispatch control centers, and human errors and limits in control in the nuclear utility industry. Comments are made by the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE) and the Atomic Industrial Forum (AIF). Arranged by Roddis's index codes.
The Chernobyl Series contains materials on the nuclear plant accident of April 26, 1986. Reported to be the worst nuclear disaster in history, the plant in the USSR exploded thereby releasing radiation into the air. This accident caused the United States to take an indepth look at its own nuclear facilities. Roddis collected information on this incident and headed a group that investigated the "N"(Nuclear)-Reactor in Hartford, Washington (same type of plant as in Chernobyl) to see if it was safe. Consists of correspondence, Department of Energy (DOE) memorandums, transcripts of congressional hearings, articles, press releases, reports, photographs, clippings, and briefings on the accident at Chernobyl. Also contains reports, articles, correspondence, and notes from meetings concerning general nuclear safety, public fears of nuclear power, nuclear reactors design, the nature of hydrogen in nuclear plants, nuclear safety in Russia, and effects of the incident on Russia's economy. Two reports found in this series include the The Accident of Chernobyl and its Consequences by the USSR State Committee on Utilization of Atomic Energy and 'N'-Reactor Updated Safety Analysis Report compiled by Roddis's research group. See also AIF series.
The Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority (PREPA) is a federally controlled company that runs the production of electric power in Puerto Rico. Roddis worked in connection with the Blue Ribbon Panel which evaluated the activities of PREPA. This series provides insight to the creation, purpose, and activities of PREPA. Contains committee meeting minutes, correspondence, photographs, schedules, notes, and reports on PREPA including a report from the Blue Ribbon Panel evaluating PREPA and PREPA's response to the report. Topics include recommendations for better efficiency and lower costs, and look at the feasibility of producing Puerto Rico's energy from coal.
Consists of state government documents, correspondence, reports, and drafts. Roddis worked as a consultant to the Pacific Sierra Research Corporation. This series consists of reports on topics such as acquifers, solar energy, clean coal power and community heating and cooling systems, and correspondence between Roddis and the company with his comments and suggestions about the reports.
Includes audit reports, cost histories, meetings' agendas and minutes, correspondence, printed materials, testimonies, rebuttals, computer lists, and reports. This series contains Detroit Edison's Board of Director's Nuclear Review Committee's research findings on the rationalization of raising its Fermi-2 reactor's budget from $228 million in 1974 to $3 billion in 1984 and the safety of the reactor. Roddis served as Chairman on Detroit Edison's Board of Directors.
Consists of letters of nominations for the 1989 Fermi Award which the ERAB gives to recognize those who contributed significantly to the energy field. Roddis served as a member of the screening panel.
The PRWRA controls Puerto Rico's water supply. Materials include correspondence, data, memoranda, congressional memoranda, member lists, notes, graphs, charts, monthly reports, reports, articles, and clippings. Isuues discussed include alternative energy sources (hydroelectric and photovollar sources), energy conservation, the economic prospects of the commonwealth, ocean thermal energy, and the refining and petrochemical industries located on the island.
Roddis was on the board and a shareholder of INESCO. This series includes correspondence, reports, articles, memoranda, clippings, testimonies, brochures, annual reports, photographs, notes, speeches, and INESCO Board of Directors meetings' minutes and agendas. Topics include nuclear fusion as a viable energy source; evaluations of surveillance systems for nuclear power plants, shareholder information, financial projections for INESCO, and the production of robotics to aid in parts of the nuclear process when humans cannot.
CONAES is a part of the National Review Committee (NRC) of the National Academy of Sciences and National Academy of Engineering. Its purpose is to study the role of nuclear power among alternative energy systems for the years 1980 through 2010 with consideration on not only supply of this energy but also demand. This series contains correspondence, memoranda, articles, figures, reports, and charts. Issues discussed range from nuclear fission to the selection of research and development programs for assured future energy supplies.
ERDA is largely focussed on the formulation and implementation of effective research, development, and demonstration plans capable of meeting national energy needs. This seies contains correspondence, memoranda, clippings, speeches, studies, meeting summary transcripts, and reports. The main issue discussed in the series is the connection between government and the private sector in energy production.
Contains correspondence, reports, memoranda, notes, tables, charts, illustrations, brochures, printed materials, and graphs. This series concerns the production of energy by coal and oil conversion processes, disposal of the conversion processes' wastes,dentrifications, and other particle removal. Roddis worked as a consultant to Exxon's research and development department in order to aid them in making technological advances in these areas.
Contains correspondence, memoranda, notes, trip and financial reports, Board of Directors meeting minutes and press releases. This series discusses the company's marketing strategies, quality assurance programs, and Roddis'ss becoming a member of the Board of Directors of this newly established consulting firm.
Consists of correspondence, memoranda, financial, operating, trip, annual, and management reports, board meeting minutes and agendas, notes, news releases, charts, brochures, sketches, articles, and clippings. Gould is a major international developer and manufacturer of electrical and electronic products. Roddis served on its Board of Directors. Issues include electromechanics, electrochemistry, electronics, load management, underwater gas cable systems, solar power, metallurgy, research and defense systems, batteries, torpedos, and submarines.
Includes legal papers in the form of exhibits, cross-examinations, rebuttals, and testimonies, LILCO Board meeting minutes and annual reports, articles, clippings, reports, and an executive summary. LILCO is a utility company that faced bankruptcy in the mid 1980s due to its nuclear venture, the 4.1 billion dollar Shoreham facility. The State of New York Public Service Commission ordered an investigation, which lasted over fifteen years, of the Shoreham Nuclear Power Project. Issues discussed deal with the financial troubles of the Shoreham facility particularly and the company as a whole. Testimonies are from LILCO executives, qualitity assurances personnel, project management, engineering management, and construction management. Proceedings concerned LILCO's management decisions including associated construction methods, cost increases, and project controls. Some information on the Detroit Consolidated Edison Company's dealings with the State of Michigan's Public Service Commission in order to ammend rates and Trans-Alaska Pipeline System issues are found in this series.
Contains correspondence, memoranda, reports, notes, meeting packets, clippings, and articles. The WPPSS is a Pacific Northwest utilities company. The primary issue discussed is the company's financial troubles, especially of the company's nuclear reactor the Washington Nuclear Plant-2. The series represents the methodical audit of the entire design and construction processes conducted by in-house teams. Their purpose was to provide WPPSS and others with the best assurance attainable that the design fulfills all that is required of it and that what was designed has been faithfully preserved in construction. Roddis worked on the independent review team which served to evaluate and criticize the procedures, scope, and conduct of the in-house effort, point out inadequacies, recommend improvements and express confidence in results.
Contains INFO newsletters, press releases, pamphlets, a mission statement, summaries of their dues schedule, annual reports, memoranda, correspondence, reports, articles, executive committee meeting minutes, a review committee questionnaire, strategic plan for the association, and presentations. The Atomic Industrial Forum is the association of the nuclear industry, with hundreds of organization members in the U. S. and abroad who support the peaceful applications of nuclear energy. Membership includes utilities, suppliers, labor unions, universities, financial institutions, mining and milling companies, and foreign government organizations. AIF's basic purposes include promoting the development and use of nuclear energy, to promote dissemination of information and public understanding, to encourage research and development, to collect and publish information on the production, distribution, marketing and use of nuclear energy products. Committees of the Board include the Executive Committee, Nominating Committee, Committee on Finance & Budget, Committee on Executive Compensation & Employee Benefits, Committee on Membership Admissions, Committee on Awards.
Primarily consists of reports issued by the NERC whose goal is to collect and to publish annually forecasts of electric power supply and demand. This series also contains annual reports of NERC and reports discussing the reliability of power supply.
IPNO evaluates nuclear stations operated by the United States utility industry and publishes reports on their findings and recommends improvements. Contains newsletters, annual reports, guidelines for nuclear stations, packets from workshops sponsored to promote education and safety, and from accreditted training programs.
Consists of reports, articles, correspondence, news releases, memoranda, annual reports, studies, proposals, booklets, pamphlets, clippings, speeches, and writings. The Institute of which Roddis was a member works to save money for electric companies through legislative venues. Topics center around financial issues, strategic planning, and the future of the electric utility industry.
Consists of Roddis's speeches and background information used for speeches.
Contains proposals, reports, project and company goals, correspondence, patent materials, board of directors meeting minutes, ammended by-laws, brochures, pamphlets and agenda from the Caribbean Conference on Energy for Development. DHR is a consulting firm for electrical utility companies, foreign industries, big businesses, and state-run companies. It works to make companies more energy efficient, to review their energy policies, and to advise them on the benefit-cost of their research and development projects. Roddis served as a board member and worked as a consultant for the company.
Contains contracts and invoices from various projects that Consolidated Edison undertook, most are from projects that Roddis undertook privately as a consulting engineer.
Consists of briefings, annual reports, and programs concerning acid rain, electric power, public policy aspects of high-capacity electric power transmission, research and development programs concerning electricity supply and demand, efficient and safe facilities, fuel supply, and environmental protection.
Consists of articles, notes, memoranda, brochures, booklets, meeting minutes, correspondence, and reports. Roddis worked with John J. McMullen Associates, Inc. which was a consulting firm that worked with naval architecture and marine engineering.
Consists of correspondence, notes, memoranda, brochures, newletters, agenda, meeting minutes, bulletin, and reports from selected committees and panels on which Roddis served.
Consists of pamphlets, brochures, reports, photographs, diagrams, slides, transparencies, correspondence, invitations, clippings, and notes from the Berlin Energy Congress. This is an annual congress held in Berlin to discuss possibilities for energy uses, modification of current methods, and ideas for more efficient energy uses. Roddis was a speaker at the congress on the rational use of energy.
Consists of testimonies and despositions given by Roddis, often as an expert witness, to support companies of which he had been a Board member or to which he had been a consulting engineer.
Consists of statements given at the Department of Energy's Public Hearing on Federal Government Policy for LNG. Series covers such issues as the development of a national policy on liquified natural gas imports, shipment of LNG imports, pricing, safety, and excavation of LNG.
Contains reports, brochures, pamphlets, correspondence, proposals, speeches, news releases, a newsletter, and booklets. The series is made up of two main agencies: Gas Research Institute (GRI) and Institute of Gas Technology (IGT), both of which dedicate their efforts to discovering innovations in efficiency and safety with natural gas. The focus of this series is the GRI and IGT research of efficient uses of gas in order to repeal the Power Plant and Industrial Fuel Act which required utilities to go back to predominantly using coal so as not to deplete the supply of gas and petroleum.
Series contains mechanical and engineering reference books.
Consists of correspondence, reports, REI president's U.S. Senate testimony, board meetings' packets which contained the agenda, programming summary, financial report, directory of the board members and meeting minutes, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission testimony, and memoranda. Issues discussed range from small power production and cogeneration to renewable energy technologies. The Renewable Energy Institute (REI) is an organization based in Washington, D.C. that is concerned with the United States' alternative energy sources that are renewable (such as solar power and wind power).
See also boxes 40-42.
Consists of articles, clippings, newsletters, correspondence, training manuals, reports, memorandums, annual reports, photographs, and drafts. Topics include ocean thermal energy conversion (OTEC), International Thormonuclear Experimental Reactor (ITER), General Public Utilites, nuclear power reports, various power plants and state power companies, and the U.S.S. Nautilus.
The Kenneth Roman Papers span the years 1906-2011 and primarily contain materials gathered during Roman's research for a biography of David Ogilvy, The King of Madison Avenue. Includes printed materials, articles, photographs, CDs, VHS videocassettes, audiocassettes of interviews with printed transcriptions, and a collection of writings and speeches by Roman and Ogilvy.
Originals are closed to research. Transcripts of interviews are available in the collection.
Accession 2009-0146 largely consists largely of reports and studies by Applied Econometrics for various clients, including railroads, paper companies, copper, newspaper, and electric power. Also includes working papers and charts, offprints and reprints, Economic Measures publications, some correspondence, and other miscellaneous material related to Roos' work, especially post-World War II.
Accession 2013-0024 contains additional reports, studies, and internal correspondence from Applied Econometrics and the Index Number Institute; volumes of Economic Measures and other publications; a photograph of Roos; and a single reel-to-reel audiotape.
Largely reports and studies by Applied Econometrics for various clients, including railroads, paper companies, copper, newspaper, and electric power. Also includes working papers and charts, offprints and reprints, Economic Measures publications, some correspondence, and other miscellaneous material related to Roos' work, especially post-World War II.
Additional reports, studies, and internal correspondence from Applied Econometrics and the Index Number Institute; volumes of Economic Measures and other publications; a photograph of Roos; and a single audioreel.
From the slate introducing the video: "In this interview, shot in 2013, Charles E. Roos, age 85, reflects on the work of his late father, Charles F. Roos. His father wa sa key economist for President Franklin Delano Roosevelt at the start of FDR's first term, and one of the founders of econometrics. Charlie then discusses his mother, Mary Barkuloo Roos, who also worked for FDR, and Charlies own work in physics. The interview takes place at the Roos home in Nashville, Tennessee. The interviewer is Jon Shayne, a family friend."
The Ben Rosen Papers span the years 1936 to 2006, with the bulk of the collection dating from 1945 through 1991, and document Rosen's sixty-year career in graphic design and visual communications consulting. The collection contains materials in a variety of formats, including correspondence, writings, graphic design and printed materials, sketches, presentation boards, photographs, and slides, that document design concepts and programs (corporate logos, letterhead, packaging, industrial design, promotion). Rosen developed corporate visual identity programs and packaging designs, first as an employee of J. Gordon Carr and Associates and the Blaine Thompson Company, and later through his own firm, Ben Rosen Associates, for clients including American Loose Leaf, CCMI McGraw-Hill, Equitable Life Assurance, Exxon/Esso, Food Fair Stores, IBM, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, North American Reinsurance, Philip Morris, Richardson-Vicks, Russ Berrie, and Tishman Realty and Construction. The collection also includes manuscripts and published editions of Rosen's books on graphic design and typography: Type and Typography (1963); The Corporate Search for Visual Identity (1970); and Digital Type Specimens (1991); and touches on several of Rosen's commmemorative projects, including a memorial for President John F. Kennedy, a United Nations 20th Anniversary book, and Rosen's submission to the World Trade Center Memorial design competition.
The collection is organized into five series: Personal Files, Writings, Business Files, Client Files, and Photographic Materials. The Personal Files Series includes original student drawings and sketches from Rosen's years at Cranbrook and Pratt, and later artwork; World War II materials, primarily relating to Rosen's proposed plan to the British government for the conversion of U.S. military bases into postwar British housing; and limited biographical material. The Writings Series contains articles on package design and visual communications by Rosen and others; manuscripts, published volumes, and promotional materials for Rosen's books; and unpublished book concepts and manuscripts. The Business Files Series includes administrative records, new business presentations, reference files and scrapbooks of creative output from several advertising and graphic design firms where Rosen was an employee or partner. The Client Files Series consists primarily of visual communications design work for a number of clients, and materials relating to several commemorative projects. The Photographic Materials Series contains negatives, photographs, and slides documenting some of Rosen's designs.
Includes original artwork Rosen completed, primarily while a student at Cranbrook Academy and Pratt Institute (sketches, watercolors, charcoals, various design projects). Also contains materials documenting Rosen's service during World War II, primarily related to a proposal designed by Rosen and fellow servicemen to convert U.S. military bases in England into housing for British citizens. Also includes limited biographical material. Arranged alphabetically.
Note on back of item reads One of many cards sent to friends, made on vacation trips.
Includes memoirs on Rosen's art/design education and early career in New York; family/children; the redesign of the Shell Oil logo; the Kennedy assassination and the genesis of Rosen's design for a Kennedy memorial document, also in the collection.
Awards from graphic design and packaging industry groups.
Copy of a note from Rosen and reply from the former President.
Includes drafts of résumés from Rosen's son, Ralph, and from Theodore Toole.
Includes articles and books by Rosen on package design and typography, along with industry reviews of Rosen's design work. Bulk of series is comprised of published book manuscripts, drafts, research, correspondence, and accompanying promotional brochures and reviews for three books by Rosen: The Corporate Search for Visual Identity, Digital Type Specimens, Type & Typography, along with materials relating to the Treasury of Alphabets by Jan Tschichold, for which Rosen wrote the introduction. Also contains unpublished book concepts for two illustrated children's books, a graphic design project on visual identification, and teaching materials on package design and typography. Arranged alphabetically.
Profiles Art Crayon package design by Rosen.
Profile of design firm Rita, Rosen & Arnoldy (RR & A), at which Ben Rosen was a principal.
Includes correspondence, administrative files, new business presentations, reference materials, and scrapbooks of creative examples. Firms represented include Ben Rosen Associates, Ben Rosen Designer, and the Blaine Thompson Company. Arranged alphabetically.
Some large format materials have been removed from their original locations in the collection and placed in Box 22. A dummy folder, indicated by a title in brackets, has been inserted in the logical location to indicate removal of the item.
Includes examples of brochures for Ritta, Rosen & Arnoldy firm
Includes work for America's Future, Inc., CHARM magazine, C.J. Herrick & Associates, Fabric Finishing Co., House Beautiful, and Sargent paints.
Includes original letterhead designs for Action Council for Better Cities, Ben Rosen Associates, Horizon House/Tishman Realty, ICOA Life Insurance, J. Gordon Carr & Associates Architects, and Scully Brothers.
Includes original letterhead designs for Ben Rosen Associates, Intermark, North American Reinsurance, Richardson-Merrell, and Ritta, Rosen & Arnoldy.
Contains design concepts, sketches, presentation materials/display boards, and final designs for a variety of visual communications projects, with a focus on corporate identity programs and package design. Bulk of series represents package design sketches, mock-ups, and finished products produced for clients including American Loose Leaf, CCMI/McGraw-Hill, Equitable Life Assurance, Exxon, Gilbarco (subsidiary of Exxon/Esso), IBM, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, North American Reinsurance, Philip Morris, Richardson-Vicks, Russ Berrie, and Tishman Realty and Construction. Materials also touch on Rosen's work on projects for government and public institutions, including a President Kennedy memorial document, a commemorative book for the United Nations 20th anniversary, and Rosen's submission to the World Trade Center Memorial design competition.
Includes correspondence, planning documentation and designs for logos and small-format paper items such as letterheads, catalogs, corporate manuals and promotional materials.
Consists of a mounted copy of Kennedy's Inaugural Address.
Tribute to Johnny Roventini, Philip Morris' bellboy icon.
Booklet design received an award from AIGA.
Includes A&P, Food Town, Shoprite, and Waldbaum brands.
Primarily large format materials used for design presentations, working drawings, and three-dimensional architectural models.
Primarily documents graphic design projects completed for corporate clients including Exxon/Esso, Gilbarco, IBM, Philip Morris, and Russ Berrie. Some slides correspond to three-dimensional packages in the Graphic Design Series, for clients including Art Crayon Company, Asgrow-Mandeville, Dorset Laboratories, and Standard Brands. Also contains photographs of typographical artifacts (Arabic, Chinese, Greek, Persian) used for the book Type and Typography, as well as slides used for Ben Rosen Associates promotional presentations and for book project promotion. Arranged in three categories--negatives, photographs, and slides--and alphabetically therein by client or subject.
Prints do not exist for all negatives.
Includes photographs of Greek, Arabic, Mesopotamian, Egyptian, Chinese, French, and Persian stone sculptures/artifacts/inscriptions. Artifacts date from the ninth century B.C.E. through the twentieth century C.E. Photographs originally obtained from the Library of Congress, the Pierpont Morgan Library, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and the American Museum of Natural History.
Includes Carstairs Whiskey, Trommer's Beer, Simon's.
Includes family portraits and studies of paintings by prominent artists such as Klimt, Homer, Stella, and Leonardo.
Includes Jersey-Millbrook, Karo syrup, National Pharmaceuticals, and Pepperell sheets.
Records relating to Rotary International, District 7710, which includes counties in North Carolina. Includes the district's conference programs, conference minutes, executive committee minutes, correspondence, directories, policies and procedures. Also includes information about the district's exchange program and various club histories, including numerous club rosters and club bulletins for the Chapel Hill and Raleigh Rotary Clubs. There are also clippings, newsletters, photographs, and slides related to the organization's activities.
The addition (2004-0126) (1000 items, 3.0 lin. ft.; dated [1960s]-[1980s]) consists of manuals, directories, correspondence, convention information, programs, and brochures related to District 7710.
The addition (2008-0278) (10800 items; 12 lin. ft.; 1999-2008) includes administrative and program files, conference manuals, and other materials relating to Rotary International's activities between 1999 and 2008.
The addition (2009-0225) (450 items, 0.2 lin ft.; dated 2003-2005) includes materials related to district simplified grants.
The addition (2010-0145) (450 items; 0.6 lin. ft.; 2005-2008) includes binders with District Simplified Grant material, as well as materials from the district's committees and activities.
The addition (2013-0060) (7.5 lin. ft.; 1984-2012) includes correspondence, administrative and program files, conference and training manuals, directories, audiovisual materials, and other materials relating to Rotary International's activities between 1984 and 2012.
The addition (2015-0145) (1.5 lin. ft.; 2003-2004) includes correspondence, administrative and program files, conference and training manuals, electronic records, and other materials relating to Rotary International's activities in 2003-2004. The bulk of the material relates to Mike Thacker's activities as District General (D-7710).
The addition (2004-0126) (1000 items, 3.0 lin. ft.; dated [1960s]-[1980s]) consists of manuals, directories, correspondence, convention information, programs, and brochures related to District 7710.
The addition (2008-0278) (10800 items; 12 lin. ft.; 1999-2008) includes administrative and program files, conference manuals, and other materials relating to Rotary International's activities between 1999 and 2008.
The addition (2009-0225) (450 items, 0.2 lin ft.; dated 2003-2005) includes materials related to district simplified grants.
The addition (2010-0145) (450 items; 0.6 lin. ft.; 2005-2008) includes binders with District Simplified Grant material, as well as materials from the district's committees and activities.
District histories and Manuals of Procedure, 1966-1981.
The addition (2013-0060) (7.5 lin. ft.; 1984-2012) includes correspondence, administrative and program files, conference and training manuals, directories, audiovisual materials, and other materials relating to Rotary International's activities between 1984 and 2012.
(6 books, 6 videotapes, 1 floppy disk, 1 tape, 5 dvds, and 23 cds)
The addition (2015-0145) (1.5 lin. ft.; 2003-2004) includes correspondence, administrative and program files, conference and training manuals, electronic records, and other materials relating to Rotary International's activities in 2003-2004. The bulk of the material relates to Mike Thacker's activities as District General (D-7710).
Collection chiefly contains Ruark's notes and clippings on a variety of issues and topics. Subjects include various Biblical issues, and how the church relates to secular issues such as war and racial integration. There are some reports he made to the Christian Century, as well as at least 200 sermons preached in Laurinburg, Rocky Mount, N.C. and the Duke University Chapel in Durham, N.C. There are also clippings from the Greensboro Daily News, sermons by others, and correspondence.
Correspondence and other papers of Rust and of his family, relating to Rust's legislative career, his work on behalf of the Jacksonian Democrats, his investment activities in Maryland and Virginia banks and mercantile firms, and his association with the Virginia militia. Includes letters from members of the family in other sections of the U.S.
The papers of Jay Rutherfurd are comprised primarily of correspondence, clippings, essays, and articles related to the subjects Rutherfurd covered during his career as a broadcast journalist. Topics reflect his interest in diplomacy, journalism, and U.S. foreign relations since 1961. Much of the material documents the career of Angier Biddle Duke, a Rutherfurd family friend who served in the diplomatic corps during the Kennedy and Johnson administrations. Other material reflects the instrumental role Rutherfurd played in the creation of Duke University's Living History Program. The collection features more than 53 audiocassettes, two videocassettes, scripts, and filmed interviews (late 1960s to 1980s) with prominent individuals, as well as recordings of TV news segments and radio shows.
In addition, the collection contains Rutherfurd family photographs, diaries, scrapbooks, legal papers, and a genealogy, as well as drafts of Jay Rutherfurd's memoir and miscellany. Individuals represented in these materials include John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson, Richard Nixon, Haile Selassie, King Hussein of Jordan, Tito, Prince Juan Carlos of Spain, Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, Robin Chandler Lynn Duke, Jacques Fray, Rafael Calvo, Stanton Griffis, Earl E. T. Smith, Ottis Pike, Lucius Clay, Averell Harriman, Henry Kissinger, John Sherman Cooper, Stanton Griffis, Terry Sanford, Willy Brandt, Ellsworth Bunker, and Ryoichi Sasakawa, as well as other celebrities and heads of state. The material also documents Rutherfurd's trips to Morroco, Southeast Asia, Nepal, the Panama Canal Zone, the People's Republic of China, Iran, and the Middle East, as well as social life in Southampton, N.Y., and Palm Beach, Fla.
Original audiovisual recordings are closed to use; listening or viewing copies may need to be produced before contents can be accessed. Please consult with Research Services staff before coming to use this material.
Restrictions on the diaries were lifted in 2002.
War years with counterintelligence in Middle East reports are included.
Serge Obolensky book, "One Man in his Time"
Collection spans 1936-2014 and includes correspondence, proofs and tear sheets, sketches and cartoons, copy scripts, research reports and other printed materials, photographs and slides, audiovisual materials in multiple formats (audio and video cassettes, 16mm and 35mm film and audio reels, dvds and phono discs) and other materials that document Rydholm's career in advertising agencies in Chicago and New York including BBDO, E.H. Weiss, EURO RSCG, J. Walter Thompson (JWT), Post Keyes Gardner, Tatham-Laird, Ted Bates, and Young & Rubicam. Collection also documents Rydholm's military service with the U.S. Air Force and participation in some War Production Board youth activities during World War II, as well as his tenure as President of the American Association of Advertising Agencies (AAAA). Companies represented include Alberto-Culver, American Bar Association, Chicago Museum of Sports, Chicago Public Education Fund, Executive Service Corps, Hoover vacuum cleaners, and Northwestern University. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
"Fresh Eggs"; "Flying Lessons"; Happy Birthday Ralph
Corona Light; Bud "Boxing Gandhi's"; Busch Beer; Long John Silver's; Dodge Blues Medley "Levon Helm; Buddy Guy and Junior Wells;"; Bud "Rock Solid"; FTD; Miller "Lee Roy Parnell"; Harvey's Bristol Cream; Bud "Joe Diffie"; Toyota; Ponderosa; Clorox "Mama's Got the Magic"; Red Lobster theme.
Big Campaign. :60 Full Music; :30 Full Music; Big Difference :60 Radio; Big Secret :60 Radio; Big Promo #1 :60 Radio; Big Promo #2 :60 Radio
Prisoner of Your Own Heart; A Place Between; Just Give Me Some Time; Love Stories; Why Must I Chase Dreams of You? Old Kentucky Friends; Do You Ever Dream of Me? If I'm So Easy to Love (Why Am I So Easy to Leave?); Love Lullaby for Two.
Northwest Air "Some People"; Bell Atlantic "Take Six"; Fox TV "Roc's Title Theme"; Seagram's "Cooler World"; Bell Atlantic "Sundays"/"Joe Hendricks"/"The Spinners"; Clarion "It's Hip"; Kodak "Azul"/'Mike Tyson"; Ultress "Blair Brown"
Chevy, Bob Seger; Geo instrumental; Ford, Tabatha Fare; Pepsi, Jessica Boucher; Marlboro instrumental; Chevy, Billy Yates; McDonald's, Joy White; 7-Up, Dana McVicker; Ford, T. Graham Brown; McDonald's, Jennifer Warnes.
Gusto is Here; The Gusto Makes It Work; Shake Hands with Gusto; The Night is for Gusto; Schlitz Right Now; Gusto Means Schlitz; Hot Times, Cold Schlitz; Schlitz Beer Mug; What a Head, What a Body; Schlitz Goes On and On
Contemporary; Contemporary with Donut; Rhythm and Blues; Rock/Young Adult; Platform/Contemporary long copy; International Hispanic; Alemannia Hispanic; USA Hispanic. 8:30
Miracle Whip Flavors "Garlic"; Nabisco Air Crisps "Hey"; Polly-O "Pizza Agent Man"; Butterfinger "Two of a Kind"; Blockbuster "War Wounds"; Miracle Whip "Knife"; Partnership for a Drug-Free America "Not an Addict"; Triscuit "You're a Man"; Kraft "Sitting Down"; Blockbuster "Lunch/Scooper"; Miracle Whip "Tweety"; Nabisco Air Crisps "500 Easy Pieces"
Film clip montage; Heilbronner; People; Film quotes; Moscow on the Hudson
Warner-Lambert Dentyne "Telephone Booth" Certs "Breathless"; Colgate CDC "Generation"; Effem Foods M&M "Chocolate and Peanut" Uncle Ben's "Man and Woman"; Nissan "Eyes" "Son of Stanza"; Liver Foundation "Classroom"
Hamm's and Coors; One Whole Lot of Beer; Then Came Hamm's; Ingredient Presenter; Hamm's Lets You Have It; Ingredient Land.
Old Milwaukee; Allied Van; Enden; Orange Crush; Schlitz Malt Liquor; Taystee Brand; Borden's; Wrigley.
Allied Van; Taystee; Armour; Borden's.
Handler. Hamilton Comp. Stud Look; Bird's Nest; Bed. :60 and :30.
Rigoletto; Better Half; Washington Square; Everybody; Movie Trailer; Stout Hearted Men. Produced by Edward H. Weiss & Co.
Hamm's Beer; Wild Drums; Wild Bass Drum; Swinging Body; Kraft. Mono
Abandoned Jungle; Party; Struck Twister; Phone Booth; Enden. Produced by Edward H. Weiss. AR-1384-2-24-64.
Experimental music; Folk; Country rock.
Experimental music; Folk; Country rock. J. Walter Thompson Company. 10/2/73.
Apple Stripteaser; Apple Picking Time; Tropical Suit; Tropical Dorothy. May 1971.
Apple Stripteaser; Apple Picking Time; Tropical Suit; Tropical Dorothy. May 1971.
Announcer Man; Spring is Here; Women Drivers; Wax the Smoke. 8/25/67
Steam Vac Jr.; Twist & Vac; Steam Vac Deluxe; Steam Vac Deluxe/Agitator kid open; Wet/Dry Vac Supreme. SFO406 rough cut and track dub. 5:00
Characters rev. ZJWA-5009; Lines rev. ZJWA-5008; Scenes rev. ZJWA-5010. 1:30
12 o'clock; 6 o'clock; 8 o'clock; 10 o'clock. Director and Chicago cuts. Editors Choice, Inc. 6:00
Point Beer "Party's Over"; UWHC "Heart Care"; Chancery "Shame on You"; Valley Bank "Frustrated"; :Point Beer "Just Be Yourself"; APT "Play in the Woods"; Chancery "A Little Sax"; UWHC "Pediatrics"; Valley Bank "Airplane"; Point Beer "Don't Forget"; UWHC "Feel at Home"; Valley Bank "Clown"; Chancery "Pig".
12, 6, 8, 10 O'clock spots. EC85-104 JWT. Editors Choice, Inc. 6:00
Fetch; 3 Guys; Plexi 2; Brush Shot; Oh No. Avid rough cut and track
Harness the Wind; Adams/Stevens; Fetch. Avid rough cut and track. 2:45
Gaffer; Guide. Several versions. Avid rough cut and track
Cutter, Off, Hot Shot, Raid, Spectracide, Ortho, Roundup, Peters, Miracle Gro, Scotts brands represented. 5:00
Adult; Teen. V-2557.
Montage; Lincoln Park; Not a Good Day; It's Me. ST90-2483. 18:00
Iain Calder; Piggyback. Video dub. 19:04
Sleepover/Wind Tunnel Canister new. MYHV-5813, MYHV-5822. :45
Brands include Seiko Hybrid, Bigman, Daihatsu, National Panasonic, Suntory, Big John, Nissan, Valcam, Pepsi, Domestos, Honda, Etiquette Toothpaste, Albert Maxime Grassian, Tory's Puppy Dog, Vassarette, Walcoal, Parco Water, Onward Jane Moore. Celebrities include Paul Newman, Marcello Mastroani, Sammy Davis Jr.
Hot Shot and Spectracide spots. Bug Security; Refrigerator; Stop Sign; Weed Warrior
Side A: The Meatpacker Suite, Arr. Joe Godfrey. Side B: Der Fliegende Hollander Overture (The Flying Dutchman, Richard Wagner). University of Wisconsin Symphony Orchestra, Catherine Comet, conductor.
Tracks: 1. JAP; 2. Blumley Castle; 3. Straight Shooter; 4. Super Market; 5. Soap Opera.
Side I: General Motors, Squirming Irma radio; Galey and Lord tv; Stella D'Oro tv; Thom McAn, Liverpool T's radio; Fanta soft drink radio; Silk 'n Satin tv; Olin Mathieson, pool tv. Side 2: Polaroid Swinger radio and tv; Alka Seltzer, Laboratory tv; Noblesse cigarettes radio and tv; L&M cigarettes, Folk radio and tv; Ballet Stockings tv; Braniff; Wing tv; Chevrolet, Dots and Dashes tv.
Howard Gossage. Contents: Gossage gallery; correspondence; Earth Day; Family Album; Gossage at college; Guest speaker Gossage; Marget Larsen; Sweat shirt; Powerpoint; Additional resources.
Contents: The reel; the Uncola story
Contents: 100 years; Hancock welcome; Old Blue Eyes; The warriors; Beat us.
Contents: Party posters; reunion pictures; Jeff York caricatures; historical snaps
The collection contains correspondence, bills, receipts, claims, legal papers, and accounts, pertaining to Drurie (or Drury) Sisson Sanford. Topics in the correspondence chiefly concern business, which revolved around Sanford's real estate dealings in Long Island and Lake George, N.Y., and his patent medicine business, S.T.W. Sanford and Sons. Other materials relate to Sanford's duties as postmaster for the Lake George Assembly, and president of the Lake George League. Includes land deeds for properties in Pennsylvania, New York, and Massachusetts.
Collection includes black and white photographs of clothing, department, furniture, grocery, hardware, household appliance, music and musical instrument, shoe and other retail store window displays, signs and interior merchandise displays of businesses in the San Jose, California area. Photographs also depict clerks and store employees at work as well as storefront street scenes. Companies represented include Albers, Armour Star, Bauer & Black, Best Foods, Hart Schaffner & Marx, Montgomery Ward, Pacific Gas, Standard Oil (Calol, Pearl Oil, Red Cross gasoline, Zerolene Oil), Sunkist, Vellumoid and Victor records. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Collection of ledgers, account books, order forms, and other ephemera relating to the sale and purchase of cigars by Sauer, Farrell, & Co., Cigar Manufacturers. Materials range in date from the 1870s through the early 1900s, and it is believed that the cigar company may have changed names throughout that period. The centerpiece of the collection is a specimen book of sample cigar box labels, created by the lithographers Heppenheimer & Maurer around 1878. The specimen book includes about 115 leaves, with labels affixed on each side of the leaf; the color ranges from two colors to multiple colors per label. Account books document cigar production, purchase, and sales information. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Specimen book created by Heppenheimer & Maurer, dated approximately 1878, and distributed to Sauer, Farrell, & Co. Book contains about 120 pages with labels pasted on each side of each page. Each label has a four-digit number stamped in blue ink, ranging from the 1600s to the 7000s. The labels are not in numerical order. The book and its pages are in fair condition; the book's binding needs preservation work, the back cover is detached, and some pages are dirty. The labels' lithographs are in excellent condition, many with vibrant colors. The artwork is generally very bright with subjects tending towards an exotic or tropical feel.
Includes order forms, account ledgers, sample cigar wrappers, receipts, and one photograph from the Sauer, Farrell & Co. cigar manufacturing company. The account ledgers represent the bulk of the series, recording cigar production, purchase, and sales information. Also includes auction house catalogs describing the collection.
[Includes loose inventories and correspondence.]
[Features company's building with employees posed outside. Bottom left corner is missing.]
Collection comprises 9 pages of medical case notes for eight individuals, seven of whom required surgery. One case history is incomplete. There are men and women, adults and children, and black and white individuals among the patients. Appendicitis was the most common complaint, but there is mention of gangrene, bladder trouble, and Pott's disease. Case notes include name of patient, symptoms and past treatment, and details of the operation, although no mention of the success of the procedure is provided. Acquired as part of the History of Medicine Collections.
Includes correspondence, financial papers, legal and administrative papers, clippings, writings, and printed material pertaining to the Scarborough Nursery School, Talladega College, the United Fund Agency and other non-profit organizations, and John C. Scarborough, Mrs. Scarborough's husband. The collection documents, in part, the work of Mrs. Scarborough to provide effective and healthy daycare for African-American children in Durham, N.C. Includes photographs of the Scarborough Nursery School, a 1946 report from the Education Planning Council for Durham, N.C. City Schools, Fullwood family genealogical papers, and documents from the North Carolina Daycare Association.
Collection comprises 76 color photographic prints, measuring from 11x14 to 20x24 inches, depicting the annual prairie fires that sweep across east-central Kansas. With the exception of one box of unmatted 11x14 prints, the photographs are in hinged window mats measuring 16x20, 20x24, and 24x32 inches. The images were published in a photobook entitled "On fire," for which Schwarm was awarded the 2002 Honigman First Book Prize in Photography by the Center for Documentary Studies in Durham, North Carolina. The photographs were displayed in an exhibit at Duke University Libraries. Also included in the collection is an audio cassette recording of the exhibition talk Schwarm gave on November 6, 2003. Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
This collection mainly documents the later years of Scitovsky's life through his correspondence and writings.
The Correspondence, Financial, and Personal series consists primarily of routine professional correspondence to Scitovsky from academic institutions, publishers, colleagues, and friends. Many concern publications or invitations to events. There are a number of brief but interesting exchanges with other economists, including Moses Abramovitz, Benjamin M. Friedman, Paul Samuelson, Stanley K. Sheinbaum, and Robert Solow.
The Writings and Speeches series contains material on selected writings and themes that Scitovsky worked on in his later years and includes clippings, drafts, articles, and numerous notes. Major academic works represented include The Joyless Economy and articles on market economies, inflation, growth and stagnation, consumer satisfaction (and dissatisfaction), marketing, affluence, and violence and boredom as social ills. Many of his other major works and earlier research are not represented. A series of photographs of Scitovky's family and home serve as companions to his unpublished memoirs, which detail life in northern Hungary for a family of nobility, as well as historical events in Hungary, France, and England, particularly before and during World War II. The memoirs also offer a detailed narrative of Scivovsky's emigration from Hungary to the US in the 1940s, as well as an account of the student protests in Paris in the 1960s.
The Printed Material series contains many of Scitovsky's reprinted articles and may prove to be the most useful series for researchers interested in his work.
Primarily routine professional correspondence to Scitovsky from academic institutions, publishers, colleagues, and friends. Many concern publications or invitations to events. There are a number of brief but interesting exchanges with other economists, including Moses Abramovitz, Benjamin M. Friedman, Paul Samuelson, Stanley K. Sheinbaum, and Robert Solow.
Consists primarily of routine professional correspondence to Scitovsky from academic institutions, publishers, colleagues, and friends. Many concern publications or invitations to events. There are several brief but interesting exchanges with other economists, including Benjamin M. Friedman of Harvard, Moses Abramovitzof Stanford, Stanley Sheinbaum of Stanford, Robert Solow and Paul Samuelson of MIT, Louise Keely of Oxford, and H. W. Arndt, a specialist in economic development in the Pacific region; topics range from publications, economics issues, to wartime history and political events in the United States and Europe. There are also several short memoirs on life in New York City in the 1930s, and essays on financial capitalism, written and collected by Sheinbaum. Only in a handful of cases are the letters from Scitovsky himself. Included in this series is a set of undated correspondence on boredom, one of his later research topics, but other than that, his writings and research topics are rarely referenced in the correspondence; this information is best documented in the printed materials. Arranged in chronological order by year.
Financial materials include only four items consisting of royalty statements, subscription notices, and accounting services. Arranged in chronological order.
Personal materials include Scitovsky's birth certificates and documentation, curriculum vitae and honorary degrees, photocopied obituaries and articles on various topics, programs, and bibliographies. Arranged in original order.
The first group of files represents Scitovsky's last work on violence and its connection to social boredom. Other files contain drafts, lectures, clippings, articles, and notes for earlier research topics: consumer and human satisfaction; the US economy and social conditions; market economies; the problems of affluence; growth and stagnation; and inflation. Another grouping contains notes, drafts, and photographs that contributed to his memoirs, published in part under the title "A Proud Hungarian." The bulk of the material represents his research dating from the 1980s-2000; earlier works are best represented in their final published form in the Printed Material series. Materials within subgroupings are arranged in original order as received.
A selection of reprints of Scitovsky's articles. In the early years, his research focused on economic theory, international finance and monopoly and competition. He progressed to prices under monopoly and competition, the theory of balance of payments adjustment, and economic welfare. Later writings analyzed growth in an affluent society, the US savings rate, the welfare of nations, and the benefits of asymmetric markets. In the years before his death, his focus shifted to violence, and in particular, boredom as the cause of violence. He referred to boredom as an "overlooked disease." Arranged chronologically.
Collection comprises a papercut by Yehudit Shadur, entitled "Mizrach" (east wall marker), from the original in the Jewish National Museum and Archives, Israel. Cut blue paper; mounted on brown paper. 15.25 x 18.75 inches.
The collection contains letters to the Sheek, Smith, and Clouse families of North Carolina from relatives who migrated to Tennessee, Kentucky, Illinois, Indiana, and Texas, concerning land and commodity prices; religion; the Mexican War; Trinity College, North Carolina; farming on the frontier; conditions in Texas, 1840-1870; secession in North Carolina; the experiences of several Confederate soldiers; and Reconstruction. The collection also contains advertisements for books and patent medicines North Carolina ballots; circulars for giris' schools and boys' schools in Lockville and Jonesville, North Carolina; bills; receipts; and summonses from a justice of the peace.
Former collection name: Jacob Sheek and Jonathan Smith Papers.
The Shields Family Papers consist of correspondence, legal papers, and photographs created by three generations of a missionary family. The correspondence documents the experiences of a missionary family in Angola (Luanda and Malange) and Zimbabwe (including the Umtali region) in the early twentieth century. In 1903, Louise Shields brought her children to live in London and gave birth to Helen there; much of the correspondence is between Louise and Robert during this period of separation. Leaving her children in England to return to Angola, Louise received additional correspondence from the woman who took care of the children in her absence. Also included in the correspondence is a series of letters written by Greta Gazeley to her mother Wilhelmina Taylor Shields Gazeley in the 1950s. The legal papers in the collection consist of marriage certificates, copies of birth certificates, an immigration visa for Robert Shields, and US Army discharge papers for Robert Dodson Shields. In addition, the collection includes a handwritten memoir by Robert Shields, a biographical account of Louise Raven Shield's life compiled by her daughter, Irene Withey Shields, and various writings by Irene Withey Shields and Wilhelmina Taylor Shields on their experiences in Africa. Also included are Irene's and Wilhelmina's diplomas from the University of Cape Town.
The extensive collection of photographs, dating from the early 1900s to the 1960s, provide a portrait of the lives of missionaries in Africa. The majority are portraits and snapshots of the Shields family and other groups both European, American, and African, as well as photographs of groups of schoolchildren, mission buildings, and various scenes of African life and landscapes. Several of the family portraits were taken during the family's time in England. The collection contains one photograph of Bishop William Taylor and a young African boy. Also included are a number of picture postcards. With the exception of three photograph albums, the photographs are unsorted and the majority are undated.
Acquired as part of the John Hope Franklin Research Center for African and African American History and Culture at Duke University.
The album, compiled by Meg (Margaret Shields), pictures missionaries and Africans in Luanda, Quessua, and Malange, Angola and other locations, and conveys the "Americanization" of peoples.
The materials in the Alix Kates Shulman Papers span the dates 1892 to 2000, with the bulk of materials dating from 1968 to 2000. These materials include: manuscripts, notes, clippings, published books, correspondence, photographs, audio and videotapes, microfilm, address and date books, family and business records. The primary focus of the collection is Shulman's writing and literary career. The secondary focus is the women's liberation and feminist movements, in which Shulman was and continues to be very active (from 1968 to the present). However, feminism and feminist activism are inextricably intertwined with Shulman's writing career, and her 1972 novel Memoirs of an Ex-Prom Queen is regarded by many as the first novel to come out of the women's liberation movement of the late 1960s and early 1970s.
Other topics covered by the collection include: her teaching and other academic work; her public speaking and conference activities; and her involvement in political activities besides feminism. This collection sheds valuable light on the concerns and tensions within the women's liberation and second-wave feminist movements. In particular, the materials document debates and disagreements among those active in the movement with regard to sexuality, marriage and domestic relations, women's financial situation and careers, health care, civil rights and cultural expression. Many of these issues are raised in Shulman's own work, including her novels, essays, short fiction, personal letters and her teaching materials.
The collection is divided into seven series. The Personal Papers Series contains Shulman's family history papers, photographs, biographical papers, and her personal correspondence (with writers, academics, political activists and family members). Notable correspondents include Ros Baxandall, Jay Bolotin, Kay Boyle, Rita Mae Brown, Phyllis Chesler, Judy Chicago, Andrea Dworkin, Candace Falk, Marilyn French, Lori Ginzberg, Hannah Green, Erica Jong, Kate Millett, Honor Moore, Robin Morgan, Tillie Olson, Lillian Rubin, Sue Standing, and Meredith Tax. The Political Work Series contains material relating to Shulman's involvement with feminist and other liberal political groups, including Redstockings, New York Radical Women, the PEN Women's Committee, No More Nice Girls, the Women's Action Coalition, and Women Against Government Surveillance
The Literary Work Series contains a variety of materials relating to Shulman's literary career, including financial and other dealings with publishing houses, notes and research, photocopies of publications, reviews of her work, articles and notes she collected regarding the literary scene, and original manuscripts. This series contains information about her early children's books; several books she edited of Emma Goldman's writings; her essays and short fiction; her novels Memoirs of an Ex-Prom Queen (1972), Burning Questions (1975), On the Stroll (1977), In Every Woman's Life . . . (1980); and her memoirs Drinking the Rain (1995) and A Good Enough Daughter (1999). A small amount of correspondence regarding book reviews of other authors' work is also included.
The Academic Work Series contains materials relating to Shulman's graduate work at NYU; her teaching at Yale, the University of Colorado at Boulder, NYU, and the University of Hawaii at Manoa; as well as her relationships with her students. The Public Speaking Series contains materials relating to Shulman's participation in literary and political conferences and gatherings, personal interviews, lectures and book talks.
Portions of the Restricted Materials Series either may not be photocopied without prior permission of Ms. Shulman or the relevant author, or may not be accessed until a future date. The same organizational categories have been applied to the restricted materials as were used in the unrestricted materials to help researchers easily access overlapping and related materials that have been boxed separately due to the restrictions. The Oversize Materials Series contains miscellaneous oversize materials of a biographical and literary nature.
Acquired as part of the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture.
The Personal Papers Series, 1892-2000, is comprised of three subseries. The Family History Subseries contains correspondence, financial papers, articles, and other documents concerning Shulmans parents' families--the Kates and the Davis families. Some of this material concerns her Jewish ancestry, her parent's professional and political activities (her father was a lawyer and her mother a writer), financial papers, photos, diaries and other materials relating to her family's extensive travels. Materials in the Biographical Subseries relate to Shulman's own personal history, including journals and datebooks, newspaper clippings, notes and correspondence with family, friends, and professional acquaintances. The Correspondence Subseries contains letters on a wide variety of topics, including Shulman's friends and family relations, her writing career, her political work, and other social and cultural activities. Material in the Family History Subseries and the Biographical Subseries is arranged alphabetically by the folder titles assigned by Shulman with miscellaneous material appearing at the end of the subseries. Material in the Correspondence Subseries is arranged chronologically.
The Political Work Series, 1967-2000, contains information about the activities of a variety of political groups with which Shulman was active throughout her career. These groups included anti-war groups, women's liberation and feminist groups (including Redstockings), the PEN Women's Committee, No More Nice Girls, the Women's Action Coalition, Women Against Government Surveillance, and other miscellaneous groups. There are also materials relating to a trip she took to China for the purpose of political and academic research, and a copy of her FBI file and correspondence relating to her retrieval of that file during the late 1970s under the Freedom of Information Act. One of the more interesting and valuable parts of this series is the set of original documents from the women's liberation and feminist movement, which include fliers, manifestos, articles and journals, such as a flier from the 1968 Miss America demonstration and the Redstockings' list of legislative reforms presented to the New York state legislature. Folders are arranged alphabetically.
The Literary Work Series, 1951-2000, contains a wide variety of materials relating to Shulman's published and unpublished writings. The Business Subseries contains materials pertaining to her early work as a research and editorial assistant for a variety of academics and writers; papers regarding Shulman's relations with various publishing houses; and brief published quotes by and about Shulman and letters she wrote to editors. Included are a bound copy of reviews of her novels and Shulman's comments on the work of other authors (book blurbs, and correspondence with a variety of authors, intellectuals and political activists, e.g., Margaret Atwood, Marge Piercy, Andrea Dworkin, and Stephen Jay Gould). The Special Projects Subseries comprises a collection of articles about feminist and women's literature and other notes on the literary scene; and notes and correspondence relating to a variety of special projects. The Essays Subseries, the Poetry Subseries, the Short Fiction Subseries, and the Books Subseries include notes, correspondence, research and manuscripts of her published and unpublished work. Folders are arranged alphabetically by title within each subseries with miscellany appearing at the end of the subseries.
The Academic Work Series, 1979-1998, contains a variety of materials relating to Shulman's teaching and other activities in an academic context. This includes her master's thesis in creative writing at NYU from 1979. Entitled Tricks, this manuscript was a first draft of part of what would later become her novel On the Stroll. There are papers relating to her teaching positions at NYU, Yale, University of Colorado at Boulder, and University of Hawaii at Manoa, including applications, fliers and articles about her activities at these institutions, notes and papers relating to the classes she taught, and correspondence with and relating to her students. Material is arranged alphabetically by the folder titles used by Shulman with Miscellaneous Teaching Material appearing at the end of the series.
The Public Speaking Series, 1972-2000, is divided into the Interviews and Speeches subseries. The Interview subseries includes transcripts of interviews, interviews published in magazines and audiotaped interviews. The Speeches subseries contains correspondence, fliers, manuscripts, and other materials relating to Shulman's public speaking engagements. These include book signings, academic and literary conferences, feminist conferences and lectures, and audiotapes of Shulman speaking at conferences and seminars. Materials are arranged alphabetically within each subseries with miscellany appearing at the end of the series.
The Oversize Materials Series, 1949-1995 and undated, contains miscellaneous materials, including a photograph of Shulman and others in her sorority at Cleveland Heights High School and large magazines featuring Shulman. Materials within each series are arranged alphabetically.
This accession consists mainly of calendars and datebooks, but also includes documentation of book promotion tours, foreign travel itineraries, records of expenses, and correspondence.
Material documenting Shulman's activism and writing, including reviews, book-tour itineraries, promotional materials, and information related to speaking engagements. Also includes a few pieces of ephemera from the women's liberation movement of the 1960s and 1970s, including cards to be distributed to ""cat-callers"" and stickers reading ""This is Insulting to Women.""
Correspondence, subject files pertaining to the Women Writing Women's Lives seminar, Woman2000, National Writers Union, Vermont Studio Center, and PEN America Center, and clippings.
Includes correspondence, including Naomi Weisstein and Oliver Sachs, speeches, writings by Alix Kates Shulman (appearances in anthologies, magazines, journals, newspapers, and book manuscripts), as well as reviews, calendars, research and activist files, and writings by others.
Collection contains personal correspondence, business papers, and receipts relating to William Sigler. Some correspondence concerns local politics and economic conditions. Sigler sometimes corresponded with prominent merchants in Baltimore, Md.
The Dawn Langley Simmons Papers span the years 1848-2001, with the bulk of the papers being dated between 1969 and 2001. The collection consists of material collected and created by Simmons when she was using the names Gordon Langley Hall, Dawn Pepita Langley Hall, and Dawn Langley Simmons. Extensive files of correspondence dating from the 1950s to 2000 document Simmons' formative years in Kent and Sussex, Great Britain; her relationship with her mother, Marjorie Hall Copper; literary circles in Great Britain; later personal events such as her wedding and purchase of her house in Charleston, S.C.; and Simmons' development as a writer. Significant correspondents or individuals mentioned in letters and other materials include Robert Holmes, Sir Harold Nicolson, Nigel Nicolson, Edwin Peacock, Margaret Rutherford, Vita Sackville-West, and Isabel Whitney. The collection also includes writings by Simmons in the form of typescripts and diaries; printed material and clippings including articles by and about Simmons; legal and financial papers; an extensive collection of scrapbooks; photographs; audiovisual materials; and other material relating to Simmons' personal life and career as a writer. The writings in the collection are primarily typescripts but include a few proofs and printers' galleys. Many of the pieces are unpublished. The publication process of the 1995 autobiography Dawn: A Charleston Legend is extensively documented by a series of edited manuscripts and proofs as well as correspondence with the publisher. Collection materials also document to some extent sex change treatments begun in 1967 at the Gender Identity Clinic of Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore; Simmons' 1969 interracial marriage to John-Paul Simmons; and the disruption in their lives in part brought on by the negative reaction of Charleston society to their marriage.
The collection also contains an electronic file of an unpublished manuscript, WANTING MAGIC, by J. Theodore Ellis, including his unpublished notes, footnotes, and reflections based on the works of Hall-Simmons and related individuals, as well as professional studies of transsexualism and sexual identity. Includes a printout of selected pages of the manuscript. There is also Ellis' copy of Simmon's GREAT WHITE OWL OF SISSINGHURST.
The Audiovisual Materials Series includes video and audio tape recordings and photographs. The recordings include professionally-produced audio broadcasts discussing Simmons' transgender life and her interracial marriage - and an amateur audio tape of Simmons' wedding. Several hundred photographs document Isabel Whitney and her family as well as Simmons' family and friends. Original recordings are closed to research; listening copies are available for most items. Otherwise, staff must arrange for use copies to be made.
The largest series in the collection, the Correspondence Series consists chiefly of incoming correspondence, spanning five decades, from family and friends, from publishers concerning Simmons' writing, and from other individuals. There is some correspondence written by Simmons scattered throughout.
Brief but detailed entries in the eleven volumes housed in the Diaries Series describe Simmons' writing career, emotional states, and family matters during the time periods from 1975-1976 and 1987-1989, ending with the years 1990-1994.
The Legal and Financial Papers Series chiefly consist of documents concerning Simmons' father, Jack Copper, Isabel Whitney and her family and estate, Simmons and her husband, and Simmons' inheritance from Whitney.
The Printed Materials Series houses clippings, travel guides, flyers, and other items that document Simmons' interests, travels, and hobbies; includes early journalistic writings (chiefly columns), and a hardcover copy of her children's book, the Great White Owl of Sissinghurst.
The twenty-odd albums found in the Scrapbooks Series feature memorabilia, clippings, photos, and correspondence assembled by Simmons concerning her writing career, family, hobbies, and interest in celebrities and royalty.
The small Volumes Series consists of two manuscripts collected by Simmons: a nineteenth-century diary written by Sarah Combs, a transcript of this diary, and an early twentieth century travelogue written by a member of the Whitney family.
The Writings Series primarily consists of typescripts of works by Simmons. There are a few written pieces by other authors. Other writings by Simmons can be found in the Correspondence Series (in the topical correspondence folders for the 1950s and 1960s and scattered throughout in other files); in the William Carter Spann Series, which contains research Simmons conducted in preparation for a book on President Carter's nephew; in the Diaries Series; and in the Printed Materials Series, which contains early columns and later writings by Simmons.
Oversize Materials housed separately from the main collection include posters, cover proofs, newspaper and magazine clippings, and a few diplomas and awards.
Acquired as part of the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture. Consists of personal and business correspondence received and written by Gordon Hall/Dawn Langley Hall Simmons. The early correspondence consists of letters from Simmons' mother, Marjorie Hall (Ticehurst) Copper, describing her work on the household staff of Sir Harold Nicolson and his wife, Victoria Mary Sackville-West, Lady Nicolson, in Cranbrook, Kent, England. The letters concern family news and local gossip, Lady Nicolson's death, the family affairs and writings of Nigel Nicolson, and Marjorie Copper's views of events in the United States. Later correspondence is from Simmons' friends and acquaintances. Folders of topical correspondence house letters written by Simmons to Edwin Peacock and Robert Holmes, and a few of Peacock's replies; correspondence received by Isabel Whitney, and material concerning the settlement of her estate; and Simmons' correspondence with the publisher Wyrick and Co. detailing the publication process of Dawn: A Charleston Legend, and containing older material Simmons sent to the publisher. Other folders in the topical correspondence sub-grouping house early correspondence and clippings from Isabel Whitney and Gordon Hall to Emmeline Paige, editor at the Villager, and materials that Hall gathered on Helen Invicta Hall, Natasha Simmons, and Isabel Whitney. Smaller amounts of correspondence are found in the Scrapbooks Series. Correspondence arranged in chronological order by date.
Consists of eleven volumes, one for each year with the exception of 1991, kept intermittently by Simmons. Brief but detailed entries refer to daily weather, activities, emotional states, conversations and correspondence, family matters, and personal upheavals or milestones. Portions of some volumes remain unused.
Consists of documents concerning Simmons, her father Jack Copper, Isabel Whitney, and the Whitney family. The Jack Copper material includes papers issued by the United Kingdom government, such as a passport and driver's license, and some memorabilia. The Whitney family material consists of genealogical papers and the will of Martha H. Whitney, Isabel Whitney's mother. The financial papers are made up of various receipts and invoices concerning Dawn Simmons, her husband John-Paul Simmons, and Vita Sackville-West's purchase of a Ford sedan in 1959. The legal papers include publishers' contracts with Gordon Langley Hall, documents concerning the inheritance from Isabel Whitney and the purchase of 56 Society Street in Charleston, S.C. The legal material also includes paperwork on Whitney family cemetery plots. Arranged in alphabetical order by folder title.
Files of miscellaneous materials including publisher's proofs of two of Dawn Simmon's books; hardcover edition of The Great White Owl of Sissinghurst as well as J. Theodore Ellis' copy of the book; a bible once belonging to Isabel Whitney with handwritten notes; early journalistic writings under the identity of Gordon Hall (chiefly columns); newspaper clippings; travel and gallery brochures; church publications; magazines; catalogues; and advertisements. Contains material on the British royal family, and the actresses Bette Davis and Charlotte Cushman. Other printed material is included in the Wyrick and Co. folder in the Correspondence Series. Most of the series is grouped alphabetically by subject. Most newspaper clippings are arranged chronologically by year. Some items are listed in the Oversize Materials series at the end of this finding aid.
Consists of more than twenty scrapbooks assembled by Gordon Hall/Dawn Simmons over the course of several decades. The album pages feature clippings about movie stars and British royalty, articles written by Gordon Hall and Marjorie Hall, advertisements and promotional material for several of Hall's books, some correspondence, and photographs of Isabel Whitney's funeral and Sissinghurst Castle. Arranged in rough chronological order. Other photographs can be found in the Audiovisual Materials Series.
Two small manuscript volumes collected by Hall: a nineteenth-century diary written by Sarah Combs, a transcript of this diary, and an early twentieth century travelogue written by a member of the Whitney family.
Consists of material collected by Simmons on William Carter Spann, President Jimmy Carter's nephew. Arranged in chronological order.
Folders house drafts and manuscripts of Simmons' writings, and a few pieces by others. Arranged in alphabetical order. Cover proofs of Dawn: A Charleston Legend have been removed to oversize housing.
Contains an electronic file of an unpublished manuscript, WANTING MAGIC, by J. Theodore Ellis, dated 2012-2014, including his unpublished notes, footnotes, and reflections based on the works of Hall-Simmons and related individuals, as well as professional studies of transsexualism and sexual identity. There is a printout of selected pages of the manuscript.
Some typescripts have the typed name "Gordon Langley Hall" crossed out in pen and replaced with "Dawn Langley Simmons."
Consists of audio and video magnetic tape recordings and photographs. The recordings include BBC productions on Dawn Simmons and Margaret Rutherford, spoken renditions of Simmons' work, and a tape of Simmons' wedding. The photographs cover a wide variety of subjects including Isabel and Martha Whitney's family, Dawn Simmons' family, relatives, friends. Other photographs documenting Simmons' life are included in the Writings Series with material collected for publication in Dawn: A Charleston Legend, and in the Scrapbooks Series. The material is in rough chronological order.
[See listings above for titles and use copy information.]
Collection contains correspondence (most nearly complete for the 1920s) of Simmons during a large part of his public life. The bulk of the collection deals with such routine political matters as recommendations for appointments, requests for political literature, suggestions for procedure in political campaigns, and special legislation for World War I veterans. Other items relate to reform politics and the orthodox Southern position during Theodore Roosevelt's administration, the Underwood-Simmons tariff, Wilsonian reforms, the financing of World War I, the Southern defection from Alfred E. Smith (1928), and the technique of machine politics. Correspondents include Calvin Coolidge, Herbert Hoover, William Howard Taft, and Woodrow Wilson.
Addition contains primarily correspondence and clippings relating to the senatorial career of Simmons, especially his opposition to Al Smith in 1928 and his electoral defeat in 1930. Two of the letters are in regard to suffrage in North Carolina. Also includes a large number of obituaries (1940).
The collection consists largely of printed materials, particularly pamphlets, flyers, and newspapers, documenting Simmons' public life as a Republican party organizer and orator. A small number of printed speeches and a file with portraits of Simmons are also included. Materials are loosely arranged by format. Several newspaper clippings include articles and essays by Simmons.
Programs, pamphlets, and other collected materials documenting Simmons' public life, largely featuring him as a lecturer or guest speaker. Other programs appear to be from events he attended.
Flyers and advertisements, largely ephemeral and broadsides, promoting events and other occasions featuring Simmons and other Republican-minded speakers.
Formal portraits of Simmons from throughout his life, undated.
Reprints of speeches by Simmons, as well as a typescript of "Address to the Country," and an accompanying attendance list, from a Republican conference in 1950 held in Washington, D.C.
Includes assorted political pamphlets, one authored by Simmons. Titles include: The Republican Party and American Colored People, 1856-1936, by R.C. Simmons; Our Motto: Co-operation, by the Second Ward Republicatn Organization of Chicago; The Story of Roosevelt and Garner as it Affects the Negro, by the Repulican National Committee; and The Negro and the Republican Party, by the Republican National Committee.
Excerpts from The Union newspaper promoting Simmons as a delegate candidate for the Republican National Convention.
Sheet music and lyrics from political events, including a song about Calvin Coolidge.
Includes assorted issues of The Union, usually with columns by Simmons or advertisements promoting an upcoming speech. The latest issue is dated 1978, but this appears to be a typesetting error. Its estimated date is 1948.
Includes issues with coverage of Simmons' speeches and appearances.
Includes issues with Simmons' column "The Week."
Includes press coverage of Simmons' lectures as well as published copies of his column "The Week."
The Cuthbert Simpkins Interviews on John Coltrane comprises 65 audio cassettes of interviews conducted by Simpkins between 1971-1974 while researching his 1975 biography of Coltrane. Simpkins interviewed family members, friends, musicians, and other associates from throughout Coltrane's career. The interviews address such topics as: Coltrane's family history, his childhood in North Carolina, the development of his musical style, his influence on other musicians, and his personality. Many also contain personal anecdotes related to Coltrane from throughout his life. The materials include multiple interviews with Calvin Massey, Jimmy Garrison, Larry Young (Khalid Yasin), Ornette Coleman, and others. The audiocassettes have been digitized for patron access, and portions of some interviews have been transcribed, with the transcriptions included in the collection.
Interviewee names and interview dates are taken directly from written information on the original cassettes.
This box contains CD use copies for all original audio material in the collection. Additionally, it contains a folder with more detailed descriptions of the file naming scheme and the relationship between the original media and the digital files. The folder also contains all currently available interview transcriptions, which are noted below.
Contains partial transcriptions of some of the interviews, noted below. Also contains additional details about the interviews and the file naming scheme.
Partial transcript available in folder.
Partial transcript available in folder.
Partial transcript available in folder.
Partial transcript available in folder.
Partial transcript available in folder.
Partial transcript available in folder.
Partial transcript available in folder.
Partial transcript available in folder.
Partial transcript available in folder.
Partial transcript available in folder.
The correspondence between Martha and Paul D. Simpson, an African American couple from Virginia, spans their time spent earning teaching degrees (1948-1952) and details not only their personal lives, but also discusses work, religion, race, and their education. The couple eventually married. The letters document daily life, their relationship, and their struggles in school, life and on the job market. Paul sometimes refers to Martha as "Booker" or "Cherie." Martha often calls Paul "Button."
The correspondence between Martha Booker and Paul Simpson begins in May of 1948 with a letter from Martha expressing her love for Paul and hoping she can show "both of you" (presumably Paul and his son, Paul Jr.) this love soon. This portion of the correspondence contains only Martha's letters to Paul and details her daily life, her job search, gifts purchased for Paul Jr., her experience as the only "colored person present" at Mass, and her love for Paul.
This portion of the correspondence contains only letters from Martha to Paul and runs from September to December of 1949. The letters detail her dorm life, church activities, and student life while attending Elizabeth City Teachers College. They discuss her plans to come home and hopefully visit Paul.
This portion of the correspondence covers the entirety of 1950 and includes letters from both Martha and Paul. Martha details her life at school and her interest in another man should Paul choose not to want her anymore. Her letters are very critical of herself, her looks, and her thoughts and feelings. Paul's letters describe the student life at Virginia State College, his feelings, his financial support of Martha, his coursework in physics, and his photography. Their correspondence from March mentions the book "Two Flappers in Paris," which Martha describes as "the story of love-making [] put in plain every day English" that had been passed around the dorm for new techniques and what she has learned about their own sexual relationship from it. Paul asks to borrow it so he can glean from it as well. Martha also mentions an affair Paul had with Edith and her feelings about that. Paul writes about a trip to Washington for the meeting of the American Physical Society and how he and his professor were the "only Negroes there and there were no other persons of color present with the exception of one Japanese individual." In July, Martha attends summer school at the Winston-Salem Teachers College, before returning to Elizabeth City in the fall. In a letter dated October 17th, Martha details a new program for the colleges of North Carolina and mentions that it is meant to raise the standards of all colleges, to compete scholastically with any school, "negro or white." Paul responds by explaining this is due to not wanting integrated colleges, so "the Negro schools must be better than they were." Martha also notes a "short-lived" pregnancy in November.
The correspondence from 1951 contains letters from both Martha and Paul, and further details their academic endeavors, Paul's desire to finally get divorced and marry Martha, their sex life, a brief mention of Paul Jr., Paul's job search after his graduation and new job teaching at Phenix High School in Hampton, Virginia, and Martha's time at Warren County Training School in Wise, North Carolina.
The 1952 correspondence between Martha and Paul covers their feelings about their engagement and their plans for marriage in May of that year, the final months of Martha's schooling, and dreams for the future (a room together, then an apartment and maybe a house).
Various undated correspondence between Paul and Martha. One lengthy letter notes her love for education and Paul, as well as her job search in Washington D.C., where she was asked for sexual favors in exchange for help obtaining a government job.
Miscellaneous letters to Paul Simpson from February 1949-February 1952, including a letter and math assignment from his son.
Includes Paul's graduation announcement with a personal note to Martha, a nude photograph of Martha, a lock of her hair, and several other miscellaneous documents.
Correspondence, financial records, legal documents, clippings, account books, commissions, addresses and speeches, and a diploma. Correspondence concerns chiefly cotton growing, trade and prices; slaves who worked in cotton fields; financial matters; Washington, D.C. politics, with references to Henry Clay and John Calhoun; state and national politics; descriptions of newly settled areas of Mississippi and California; and a cholera outbreak in Charleston (1832). Civil War letters detail problems at Fort Sumter (1861), and often refer to economic difficulties and shortages in South Carolina. Other Civil War letters are also written from Manassas, Alabama, and Mississippi. One letter from Mississippi details the desperation of women left alone and unable to flee before the advancing Union Army. Post-war letters reveal the problems of Reconstruction in South Carolina. Many of the letters are to Sims' wife Jane Emily Sims (Farnandis).
Includes an autobiographical letter from J. K. Paulding, author and statesman, and an essay by the same, entitled "The history of Uncle Sam and his boys." Some of Sims' addresses and one of the legal documents concern Nullification, which Sims' strongly supported. Other documents include an obituary for Franklin H. Elmore, plantation and general account books, and some material on Sims' student days at South Carolina College (ca. 1817-1819), which includes a letter to his brother in 1819 "in defence of General Jackson," and his "treatment of the Indians."
Rebecca Sittler's series All the Presidents' Men was the winner of the 2015 Archive of Documentary Arts Award for Innovation in the Documentary Arts. The ADA Collection Awards were established to diversify the ADA’s collection in order to better reflect the multitude of viewpoints and communities from which work is being made in the documentary arts today.
Sittler included the following abstract about her work:
All the Presidents' Men combines photographs made in presidential museums and historic sites across the United States with images from my father and grandfather's homes. In 1959, after a spontaneous all-night road trip, my 18-year-old father met former president Harry Truman out for a morning walk on the streets of Independence, Missouri. He doesn't remember what they talked about, only the thrill of meeting a "powerful," yet "unassuming" man. Nearly 50 years later, I visited Truman's presidential museum and noticed there was little evidence of the restlessness and uncertainty that have shaped my father's generation and characterized Truman's legacy.
I am intrigued by photography's increasing role within history museums, where historical narratives intersect with the complexities of photographs, replicas, and ephemera, and are interpreted through the viewer's imagination and personal experiences. In particular, I see presidential museums as archives of a particular version of American masculinity, informed by American dreams, fictional narratives, and political rhetoric. Presidential power is reified and celebrated within the history museum while aspects of presidential identities that are more revealing of their complexity, individual struggles or humanity are only rarely or subtly articulated. These "preferred" heroic narratives have their own blind spots that are also absorbed into our political and personal lives despite the tenuous grasp they hold on the complexities of history and the multifaceted lives of men.
30 archival pigment prints, sized 18x22.5" (22x26.5" with borderes). Printed in color on Epson Luster Paper; originating as digital files. Captions provided by Sittler.
Replica of the presidential resolute desk and oval office designed for visitor "photo ops" within Plains High School, Jimmy Carter National Historic Site (Plains, GA).
Photographs of my grandfather, Alvin Luebbe, a glider pilot in World War II, before and after the war, displayed on my grandmother's artificial fireplace (Beaver Crossing, NE)
Museum display of toy planes demonstrating the number of Allied aircraft bringing supplies to West Berlin during the height of the Berlin Airlift, Truman Presidential Museum (Independence, MO)
A display of the "Open Road Stetson" hat, worn by many celebrities and cowboys and renamed the LBJ Hat after he popularized it during his presidential campaign, Lyndon Baines Johnson Presidential Museum (Austin, TX)
A clash between American idealism and television images of unrest at home and abroad, Richard Nixon Presidential Museum (Yorba Linda, CA)
Shuffleboard score panel in my father's workshop, (Grand Island, NE)
Original teleprompter text of JFK's acceptance of the Democratic Party nomination for the presidency, JFK Presidential Museum (Boston, MA)
Detail of a photograph of Reagan and Gorbachev meeting at the first summit in Geneva, Ronald Reagan Presidential Museum (Simi Valley, CA)
Museum spotlight on an enlarged version of a photograph of then Governor Reagan addressing a student protest in Sacramento, CA by asserting that taxpayers should not be "subsidizing intellectual curiosity". Ronald Reagan Presidential Museum (Simi Valley, CA)
Museum mash up of a photograph of Dwight D. Eisenhower working the BBQ, a photograph of daughter-in-law Barbara on her tricycle outside the White House, and modern appliances from the Atomic Age. Dwight D. Eisenhower Presidential Museum (Abilene, KS)
Captioned on the print as "Picket Fence." Photograph of Ronald and Nancy Reagan at Rancho del Cielo within replica of Rancho del Cielo where visitors can "ride a horse alongside President Reagan." Ronald Reagan Presidential Museum (Simi Valley, CA)
A section of my father's office/personal archive (Grand Island, NE)
A display featuring 1970s fashion and Edward Land featured in LIFE Magazine alongside photographs of race riots and JFK's funeral, Gerald R. Ford Presidential Museum (Grand Rapids, Ml)
Captioned on the print as "Atomic, 2012." Detail of museum display narrating the American postwar boom, Harry S. Truman Presidential Museum (Independence, MO)
Subtitles from a video about the fall of the Berlin wall, Ronald Reagan Presidential Museum (Simi Valley, CA)
Display of an anthology of Great Men and Famous Women, edited by Charles Horne, collecting dust behind glass, Harry Truman Presidential Library (Independence, MO)
Family photographs on freshly installed replica wallpaper, Dwight D. Eisenhower Boyhood Home (Abilene, KS)
Reflection of a copy of a painting of Abe Lincoln on a table in a basement replica of the West Wing. Known as the "White House Decision Center", this replica is used for school visit reenactments of major moments during the Truman presidency, Harry Truman Presidential Museum (Independence, MO)
Home display of my family's Lincoln portrait and southern bayou landscape at Christmas (Grand Island, NE)
Television replaying Hoover speeches in a replica of Hoover's retirement suite in New York's Waldorf Towers, Herbert Hoover Presidential Museum, (West Branch, lA)
My father's collection of "memory objects" from his memory box, spread out on my mother's desk with reflection of the American flag (Grand Island, NE)
Atomic Age Living Room Replica at Christmas, Dwight D. Eisenhower Presidential Museum (Abilene, KS)
Replica of Congressional Hearing room with display asking museum visitors to act as jury, Gerald R. Ford Presidential Museum (Grand Rapids, Ml)
Reflection of an image of President Hoover and wife Lou Henry Hoover through a window of a display referencing Lou's silent home movies, Herbert Hoover Presidential Museum (West Branch, lA)
Locked doors narrating bank closings after the fall of the stock market before the great depression, Herbert Hoover Presidential Museum (West Branch, lA)
Light coming through the shower window in my father's self designed and constructed bathroom (Grand Island, NE)
Audio narrated replica of Camp David office of former President George H.W. Bush, highlighting his passions and pastimes, George Herbert Walker Bush Presidential Museum (College Station, TX)
Section of a replica display of Lincoln's boots left on the floor in his chaotic law office, Abraham Lincoln Presidential Museum (Springfield, IL)
A portrait of Washington overlooking a replica of Lincoln's closed casket, lying in state with a replica of Springfield's Old State Capitol. The museum's exhibition designers refer to Lincoln's museum as the "first truly experiential museum in the world", Abraham Lincoln Presidential Museum (Springfield, IL)
Detail of replica of Nixon's last home office left exactly as it was the night he died, narrated by a video of Nixon reflecting on his presidency and the Watergate scandal, Nixon Presidential Museum (Yorba Linda, CA)
Personal and business papers of George Hoffman Slater of "Rose Hill," Upperville, Va., but also including papers of several other Virginia families, the James Lee family, and the Deatherage and Lake families. Papers of George Hoffman Slater include personal and business correspondence, school papers, bills, and receipts.
This collection contains NOW operational files including correspondence, newsletters, chapter organization records, speeches, fund raising, budget files, files on related organizations, and files related to sexual discrimination and sexual discrimination lawsuits. Other materials document the founding and early history of the Orange County Rape Crisis Center. Slifkin's work to make the Morehead Scholarships at the University of North Carolina coeducational are also documented. Also included are materials for courses on Women's Studies and other educational materials, handbooks, personal files, issues of SPOKESWOMAN, NCC-LAW newsletters, and two audiocassettes of an interview of Slifkin from 1994. Acquired as part of the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture.
Radio talks, drafts of sermons, sermon transcripts, and a scrapbook of clippings from Smith's time as a pastor at the University Baptist Church of Austin, Texas. Also includes rosters of University of Texas Baptist students and an article on Darwinism in Texas.
The Florence Moss Smith Papers span the period 1916 to 1973 and consist almost entirely of correspondence. The bulk of the collection consists of letters exchanged between Florence and Frank Smith during their courtship and after their marriage between 1942 and 1945 when Frank Smith was serving in the U.S. Navy during World War II. While this World War II correspondence forms the crux of the collection, the papers also chronicle Florence Smith's life from her undergraduate days at Duke University until the marriage of her children more than three decades later. One of the greatest research values of the collection, is its depiction of the impact World War II had upon families.
A theme running throughout Frank and Florence Smith's correspondence from 1942 to 1945 was that of forced separation brought on by the war. Their letters document the difficulties presented to both Florence Smith, who is without "masculine support", and her husband, who was far removed from the circle of family and the births and rearing of their two sons, Frank Jr. and Howard. In addition, one sees the importance of the letter as the principal, often sole, method of communication during the war which made the waiting endurable.
Frank Smith trained at the U.S. Naval Training School (Indoctrination) at the University of Arizona in Tucson and also near Boston, before being assigned to overseas duty. He was commissioned as a lieutenant and served primarily in the South Pacific, the Philippines, and Japan, before he returned to the states after the war in late 1945. There is a lengthy letter from him dated Sept. 28, 1945, describing how his ship took occupation troops into Japan. He described the port city of Wakayama, his opinion of the Japanese people, and the effects of the B-29 bombings on the area.
Two of Florence's brothers, Howard and John Moss, also served in World War II. Howard Moss, who was in the Army, was stationed in the European theater and John Moss, a doctor in the U.S. Navy, served in a military hospital on Guam in 1945. Several of their letters, chiefly to their parents, are included in the collection.
The legacy of war shadowed the next generation of Florence Smith's family after her son Howard joined the U.S. Army. Eventually obtaining the rank of captain, he served in Vietnam from 1969 to 1971. There are similarities in the war experiences of both generations of the family. A letter dated Aug. 15, 1968, from Frank Smith to his son Howard, who is grieving over the death of a friend killed in action in the Vietnam War, relates a similar experience during World War II when a friend of his was killed.
The early correspondence, 1928-1941, consists chiefly of exchanges between Florence Smith and her parents while she was an undergraduate at Duke University and later while she was employed at Duke. Her correspondence with Frank Ferrell Smith, also a Duke graduate, began around 1938 while he was working for the Soil Conservation Service in Arkansas. The letters became more frequent and intimate after their engagement, particularly between April and May of 1941 shortly before their marriage.
There is a gap in the correspondence from 1949 to 1958. In 1960, soon after the correspondence begins again, there are several letters of sympathy to Frank and Florence Smith. The letters were occasioned by the death of the Smith's eldest son, Frank, in an automobile accident in March 1960. The later correspondence is mostly among Florence and Frank Smith, their parents, their two other sons, and their daughters-in-law.
While correspondence comprises the bulk of the collection, there are also a few miscellaneous items, including a small group of unidentified photographs and a few printed materials.
Business papers of Joseph Belknap Smith relating to his investments in copper mines in Michigan and Tennessee, gold mines in Georgia, the New York Bay Cemetery Company, a lumber company and a cotton and land company in England, a project to build a railroad and telegraph from Caracas to La Guaira, Venezuela, a grain mill, sawmills, and salt mines and lands in Georgia. Included are contracts; scattered financial reports; schedules of property belonging to the Columbia Mining Company containing lists of slaves and their values; contracts for hiring slaves and freedmen; land deeds; broadsides of a steamboat company in Georgia; advertisement for an apparatus of Edward N. Kent for separating gold from foreign substances; letterpress book, 1849-1855, containing copies of the correspondence of Smith and one of his partners, George Wood, about their copper mines in Tennessee; diaries, 1845-1861, 1863-1864, and 1866; daybook, 1846-1850; and a ledger, 1860-1873, containing valuations of the mine and mill properties of Smith and his partners and the amount of the Confederate soldiers' tax and war taxes for some of the Civil War years. There are also letters, 1857-1860, from Eliza Annie Dunston concerning her experiences as a teacher in Illinois and Mississippi, her travels, and her social life; scattered family correspondence; reports of the Columbia Mine post office in account with both the Federal and Confederate governments; petition of a number of Wilkes County, Georgia, citizens requesting a military exemption for Smith, miller and postmaster; circulars of Alabama Central Female College and Thomson (Georgia) High School; letters from Herschel V. Johnson and Company, agents for those who had cotton tax claims against the United States government; address of Jacob R. Davis to black voters of the 18th district of Georgia; and correspondence, 1860s, containing references to a ball to be given in New York City in honor of the Japanese emissaries, secession sentiment in Georgia, enlistment of volunteers, camp life and rumors in the Confederate Army, marketing of scrap iron, production of salt, raising of hogs for the Confederate government, commodity prices, the siege of Petersburg and the performance of African American troops there, the use of buildings at Emory and Henry College (Emory, Virginia) as army hospitals, Sherman's march to the sea, the impeachment of Andrew Johnson, the difficulty of securing freedmen to work on the farms in Georgia, and elections in Georgia in 1868.
Unprocessed addition (Boxes 4 and 5) includes correspondence, both business and personal, to either Smith or his wife, Jane Septima Smith; legal and financial papers of the Columbia Mining Company; six volumes of Smith's diary (1867, 1884, 1905, 1907); and his photograph. One of the letters described how life after the Civil War changed for both black and whites.
Family, business, and personal correspondence (chiefly after 1851) of Southgate and of his family. The material concerns Southgate’s insurance business, life in North Carolina, the establishment of Durham, N.C., and of Duke University; the Southgate family in the Civil War, Reconstruction in North Carolina, education and civil activities in North Carolina, South Carolina, and Virginia, and schools in Durham; and the activities and genealogy of the Southgate family. Correspondents and persons mentioned include Mattie Logan Southgate Jones, Delia Haywood Wynne Southgate, and Myra Ann Muse Southgate.
Chiefly financial records and other papers of the Seamen's Friend Society, with a few items relating to charitable contributions around 1918. Several items also concern the United Laymen's Association of Wilmington.
Box 1 includes leases and other legal documents for various properties. Box 2 chiefly consists of Seaman's Friend Society vouchers and a YMCA file.
Collection contains materials related to Stauber's service in the U.S. Navy during World War II. Some of the material contains notes and scripts of announcements and news reports made by Stauber on radio broadcasts onboard the USS Biloxi. These radio broadcasts are dated January-April, 1945 and document, among other things, the U.S. invasion of Iwo Jima and contain marks of official censorship. A large part of the collection consists of correspondence, primarily from Stauber to his mother (1942-1945). Also included are photographs of USS Biloxi reunions (1974-1980), one of which was located in Durham, North Carolina.
Collection contains materials related to Stauber's service in the U.S. Navy during World War II. Some of the material contains notes and scripts of announcements and news reports made by Stauber on a radio show onboard the USS Biloxi. These radio broadcasts are dated January-April 1945 and document, among other things, the U.S. invasion of Iwo Jima and contain marks of official censorship. A large part of the collection consists of correspondence, primarily from Stauber to his mother (1942-1945). Also included are photographs of USS Biloxi reunions (1974-1980), one of which was located in Durham, North Carolina.
Handwritten notes for radio broadcasts on the USS Biloxi. Dated January-April, 1945, these shows contain news and updates related to the Biloxi' service in the Pacific, most notably during the United States invasion of Iwo Jima.
Primarily consists of letters from Stauber to his mother. The letters chronicle his training and service during the war.
Mast in a park. Presumably a memorial for the Biloxi.
This series includes images from Stauber's military career and private life; records from his time in the military, including health information, roster of officers, etc.; newspaper clippings; correspondence and military orders; and records on the event of various reunions for the crew of the USS Biloxi. The reunion subseries contains a book with extensive photographs of the mariners, the USS Biloxi, and their travels.
Collection includes print advertisements, accessories and merchandise catalogs, collector newsletters, direct mailings, cigarette and tobacco labels and packaging, point of sale displays, sheet music, memorabilia and collectibles, tobacco tins, smoking and smoking cessation paraphernalia, juvenile and adult literature, research reports and articles on smoking and health and other printed materials, along with audio and video cassettes and optical discs. Materials primarily relate to smoking, tobacco use and prevention in the United States but some international examples are also present. Materials also relate to the tobacco industry in North Carolina. Companies represented include Alfred Dunhill, American Cancer Society, American Legacy Foundation, American Lung Association, American Tobacco Company, Brown & Williamson, Liggett & Myers, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health (NIH), Philip Morris, R.J. Reynolds, Tobacco Institute, U.S. Surgeon General and Zippo. Acquired as part of the John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History.
Features American Horse (D. 1908), Native American spokesperson
Includes: Booth Tarkington (Grenville Kleiser's Mail Course in English); Frances D. Roosevelt (Portrait of the Author of Lend-Lease); Walter Cronkite (CBS Radio Network)
Includes: Camelsmokes.com; Marlboro "come to where the flavor is"; Marlboro M
Includes: NASCAR Winston Cup Series; RJ Reynolds "Pride in Tobacco" and "Tobacco Pays My Bills"
Includes: Poland, Portugal, Russia, Servia
Includes national flags and a verse of the national hymn, song, air or anthem, or patriotic/folk tune. Countries represented: Brazil, Bulgaria, China, Cuba, Egypt, Japan, Poland, Scotland, Sweden, Switzerland, Wales
Includes: The Benefits of Quitting; Within 20 Minutes of Quitting
Includes: American Tobacco (1967); Continental Tobacco (1969); Liggett & Myers (1950); Lorillard (1911); RJR Nabisco (1990); Tobacco Products Corporation (1929)
Includes: Dan Patch Cut Plug; Landmark Cut Plug; Laredo Cut Plug; Long Distance; Oceanic Cut Plug; Pep Blended Cigarette Tobacco; Ramrod Cigarette Tobacco
The Stirewalt Family Papers, 1828-1993 (bulk 1850-1947), are comprised of the personal papers of individuals from four successive generations of the Stirewalt family. The correspondence, writings, diaries, legal/financial documents, photographs, and other miscellaneous papers found in this collection document the Stirewalt Family's personal lives and involvement in the Lutheran Church as ministers, educators and missionaries. The collection is divided into four primary series which reflect the individuals whose papers make up this collection: Jacob Stirewalt, Jerome Paul Stirewalt, Martin Luther Stirewalt, and Catherine A. Stirewalt. The arrangement of the collection is primarily chronological, following the lineage of the Stirewalt family. Subsections within each major series are determined by the type of materials found within the collection and are arranged either chronologically, as in the case of the Diaries and Correspondence Subseries, or alphabetically and thereunder chronologically, as in the case of the Writings Subseries.
The Stirewalt family is descended from Jacob Stirewalt, a minister and member of the Tennessee Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran Church. Jacob Stirewalt was primarily active in and around New Market, Va. and Rowan and Shenandoah counties in Virginia. The Subseries related to Jacob Stirewalt includes Correspondence from 1828-1858, Writings (primarily sermons and sermon outlines in German and English) from the 1830s to the 1860s, and Diaries, which includes a Memorandum book where he recorded financial transactions and other records of his career as a minister from 1834 to his death in 1869.
Jerome Paul Stirewalt, the son of Jacob Stirewalt, was also a minister and a leader of the Tennessee Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran Church. He served as a minister in several pastorates in Virginia and North Carolina and several terms as president, secretary, and treasurer of the Tennessee Synod in the late 1800s and early 1900s. His papers are primarily composed of Correspondence, 1870-1933, with other ministers, relating to the business of the Tennessee Synod, and with family members. The collection also includes Jerome Paul Stirewalt's Writings, primarily sermons and sermon outlines, and other miscellaneous financial and legal papers. The Diaries Subseries is primarily memorandum books which list the date and location of religious services performed and the topic or title of sermons delivered by J.P. Stirewalt. These books serve to provide a record of Stirewalt's work as a Lutheran minister.
Martin Luther Stirewalt, the son of Jerome Paul Stirewalt, was also a Lutheran minister and educator at Lutheran schools and colleges in Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Chicago, Ill. This series includes correspondence, diaries, writings and clippings which provide a picture of Stirewalt's theological education, activities as a minister and educator, and insights into his personal life and familial relationships.
The papers of Catherine A Stirewalt, Martin Luther Stirewalt's daughter, are primarily correspondence written while she was a Lutheran Missionary in China from 1939-1949. This correspondence provides documentation of the Lutheran Church's activities in China prior to and after World War II. Catherine Stirewalt's letters provide a great deal of detail about the daily lives of missionaries in China and some information about the lives of the Chinese people working as instructors or attending the mission school. There is no correspondence from the period of the first two years of World War II when she was interned in the Weihsien concentration camp near Tsingtao, China. Other miscellaneous clippings, photographs, and writings in this series provide further documentation of her experiences in China.
The papers of Jacob Stirewalt, 1828-1869,are divided into six Subseries: Correspondence, Writings, Diaries, Financial Papers, Legal Papers, and Miscellaneous Papers.
Jacob Stirewalt's correspondence is chiefly with members of his family and is arranged chronologically.
The Writings Subseries is primarily composed of sermons and sermon outlines written by Stirewalt in both English and German. This subseries also includes the bound handwritten manuscripts of two short unpublished religious texts authored by Stirewalt and one folder of miscellaneous writings.
33 pages, bound, handwritten manuscript. Includes several inserted leaves of notes.
99 pages, bound handwritten manuscript. Subtitled "With Remarks on the Ministerial Office and A Vindication of the Ordination of a Young Minister."
Stirewalt's sermons are primarily in English, but several of his early sermons are in German. Many of the sermons exist only as detailed outlines, which may have been used as notes to be referred to when delivering the sermon. The sermons are arranged chronologically, with undated sermons, fragments, and notes grouped at the end of the subseries.
One two-page manuscript in Stirewalt's hand titled "A Brief Admonition to Confession," and a three-page manuscript titled "A Cursory Admonition to Repentance."
The Diaries Subseries includes a Memorandum book providing financial and travel details related to Jacob Stirewalt's ministerial duties between 1834-1869and a small undated notebook containing miscellaneous personal and religious writing and inspirational clippings from the1850s-1860s.
The Financial Papers Subseries includes a Memorandum book, dated1860,which provides a partial record of Jacob Stirewalt's expenses from 1860-1864;several documents relating to financial transactions and purchases; and miscellaneous documents, fragments and notes which seem to be related to financial transactions or accountings. This subseries also includes an1864receipt for the purchase of $100 worth of Confederate Bonds.
The Miscellaneous Subseries includes assorted personal papers, notes and certificates related to Stirewalt's work as a minister, clippings on various subjects, and writing fragments that are not identified or otherwise classifiable. The subseries is ordered alphabetically by folder title.
Jacob Stirewalt's and Hennrietta Henkel's marriage license.
Marriage licenses and notes recording the performance of religious services.
One small series of drawings and notes in Jacob Stirewalt's hand concerning improvements to a wheat fan.
The Jerome Paul Stirewalt Papers,1859-1933, are divided into 4 subseries: Diaries, Correspondence, Writings, and Miscellaneous Papers.
A note on the title page of this memorandum book states that it was purchased by Jacob Stirewalt in1853.The first third of the volume provides a record of Jacob Stirewalt's ministerial activities, including the time, places, and text of the sermons, funerals, baptisms, confirmations, performed by Stirewalt and his compensation for these duties between1859and his death in1869.The memorandum book was continued by Jerome Paul Stirewalt in1872and provides a similar record of his ministerial activities from that date through1926.The book is in extremely fragile condition and a preservation photocopy is provided for use.
The first quarter of this memorandum book provides a record of Jerome Paul Stirewalt's ministerial activities at St. Matthew's Church in Mt. Olive, Va. 1881-1883and a detailed record of marriages and funerals performed by J.P Stirewalt between1917and1931.The remainder of the volume provides a record of his expenses and earnings from farming for 1922-1923.
The Correspondence Subseries, 1870-1933,is arranged chronologically to the item level. The bulk of Stirewalt's correspondence spans from 1870-1900.There is a gap in the continuity of this subseries after1902,with no letters from1903to1911and very few letters from1911to1933.The letters are primarily correspondence with other ministers concerning administrative activities of the Tennessee Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran Church. Many of the letters seem to refer to the solicitation of funds for special projects being undertaken by the Synod and to financial compensations being provided by the Synod to member ministers. The collection also includes some personal correspondence, business correspondence not related to the activities of the Tennessee Synod, and several drafts of letters written by Stirewalt between1911and1912.Also included is a small amount of correspondence received by William J. Stirewalt.
The chronologically arranged Writings Subseries primarily consists of sermons and sermon outlines, the bulk of which appear to be outlines which Stirewalt used as references while delivering the sermons. Most of the sermons are dated and the location where each was written, primarily New Market, Va., is given. The outlines are very detailed, providing titles, and references to biblical texts cited by the sermon or used as evidence to support the theme of the sermon. Three folders of undated sermons are filed at the end of this subseries.
The Miscellaneous Subseries contains primarily materials created or compiled by Jerome Paul Stirewalt. Also included in this subseries are materials created or compiled by members of his immediate family. The subseries is arranged alphabetically by folder title. The Miscellaneous papers consist of legal and financial paper, clippings, notes, documentation referring to the activities of the Tennessee Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran Church, religious pamphlets not authored by Stirewalt, and notebooks that were created by members of Stirewalt's immediate family.
Jerome Paul Stirewalt was the executor for the estate of his sister. This part of the collections contains a small amount of correspondence related to the administration of the estate and receipts and financial records generated by the settlement of the estate.
A handwritten abstract book created by Quintus Stirewalt while a student at the University of Virginia. Over half of the book is pasted over with clippings of a newspaper column from an unknown source providing details of the Lutheran Church's activities in Indiana, ca.1869.
24 page pamphlet with a "Presidents Report" written by Stirewalt and providing details of the activities of the Tennessee Synod for1912.
6 pages "Sermon Sketch" notebook with 38 questions written by J.P. Stirewalt.
Subscription lists for "History of the Evangelical Lutheran Tennessee Synod" (1890) and "Minutes of the Evangelical Lutheran Tennessee Synod," (1892).
Draft of a report authored by Stirewalt while serving as treasurer of the Tennessee Synod.
The Martin Luther Stirewalt Papers Series,1899-1959, consists of four subseries: Correspondence, Writings, Diaries, and Miscellaneous Documents.
The Correspondence Subseries is arranged chronologically and consists of the personal and professional correspondence received by Martin Luther Stirewalt. It includes one folder of letters received from his parents while a student at Lenoir Rhyne College in Hickory, N.C. from 1899-1900;7 folders of personal and professional correspondence received between1905and1952;and one letter book presented to Martin Luther Stirewalt at Christmas in1959which includes letters of condolence he received from professional acquaintances while in the hospital during that year.
The Writings Subseries is arranged in loosely chronological order and consists of Martin Luther Stirewalt's early religious and professional writings. The subseries is composed of notebooks containing coursework and religious essays written while a student at the Chicago Lutheran Theological Seminary, later student essays, sermons and speeches, and notes and drafts for other religious and professional writings. Many of the sermons included in this subseries appear to have been developed and compiled by Stirewalt as guides to sermon writing and were possibly used as curriculums for courses he taught.
7 handwritten and typescript manuscripts on religious and literary subjects. Possibly written in college and graduate school.
"The Curricula of Selected Lutheran Theological Seminaries in the United States," Northwestern University. 109 pages, typescript with 2 handwritten pages of charts.
Complete sermons and miscellaneous notes and outlines for sermons.
8 typescript and handwritten manuscripts of speeches and sermons delivered by Stirewalt. Included is the text of an address delivered in1935titled, "Parish Education Problems and Their Solutions;" a1934sermon titled "Man's Fundamental Need;" and the text of a1941sermon delivered to the religious organizations of Lenoir Rhyne College.
20 page handwritten draft of speech titled "Progress in Theological Education," read at Stirewalt's induction as Dean of the Lutheran Theological Southern Seminary in1941.17 page handwritten draft of a speech titled "How Men are Called to the Ministry." Also included is a schedule of the induction ceremony.
179 loose typescript and handwritten sheets that appear to have been held together in a 6" x 9" three ring binder. The typescript and handwritten sermons and outlines of sermons in this notebook may have been used by Stirewalt as a curriculum for a class on sermon writing.
119 typescript pages in a 6" x 9" black three ring binder, primarily sermons and sermon outlines. Possibly compiled as an educational aid.
75 typescript pages in a 6" x 9" black three ring binder. Appears to be an outline and series of lecture notes for a class called "Practical Homiletics."
Typescript 6" x 9" pages with outlines of New Testament books as well as notes from other historical texts.
3 typescript copies of a 4 page policy statement with some annotations.
31 page typescript draft of Stirewalt's translation from German of the minutes of early meetings of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in North Carolina.
5 page typescript of Stirewalt's ethical and behavioral guidelines for Lutheran Ministers.
3 typescript pages of notes made in preparation for writing a chapter for a book on the history of the Tennessee Synod.
Included in this subseries are two notebooks containing records of sermons delivered and religious services performed by Martin Luther Stirewalt from1904to1952and a desk diary from1942.The sermon records include the title, date and place delivered, and primary biblical references for each of Stirewalt's sermons.
The Miscellaneous Papers subseries includes publications, pamphlets, clippings, educational records, and legal and financial papers collected by or relating to Martin Luther Stirewalt. The folders are arranged alphabetically by folder title.
Annotated by M.L. Stirewalt.
10 copies of the Record, an annual publication of the Chicago Lutheran Seminary. Includes information about members of the seminary and courses offered at the seminary.
Photograph of the Class of1906.
Miscellaneous clippings. Includes: copies of several published versions of sermons and addresses delivered by M.L. Stirewalt; clippings of short articles about M.L Stirewalt; and a single copy of The Lutheran (April 30,1925) with a obituary of Dr. John Edwin Whittiker written by Stirewalt.
11 copies of the catalogue of the Colburn Academy, a Lutheran School in Mulberry, Indiana. The school changed its name to the Weidner Institute in1911.
Land sale agreement between M.L. Stirewalt and A.L. Gray.
Board of Trustees meeting minutes for three meetings in1941and1942.
2 versions of the organization's constitution and bylaws.
Syllabus and related materials for a series of lectures titled "Four Hunderd Years of the Augsberg Confession."
2 copies of the Seminary's catalog. Includes course descriptions, a history of the seminary and its founders, and description of the school and faculty. A short biography and photo of Martin Luther Stirewalt are on page 20.
The papers of Catherine A. Stirewalt, 1939-1993,the daughter of Martin Luther Stirewalt, are composed of correspondence, clippings, and other miscellaneous papers that primaily document her time spent in China as a missionary for the Lutheran Church.
The chronologically arranged Correspondence Subseries consists of letters written by Catherine Stirewalt to her family and friends during her time spent working and studying in China. In her letters she discusses her day to day life in China, the progress of her studies of the Chinese language, and the details of sightseeing trips made near Tsingtao, China. The letters begin in1939,just prior to her departure for China, and continue on a weekly basis through December of1941and the beginning of World War II. Her correspondence resumes after her release from a Japanese concentration camp in1943and continues through her return to China in July of1947and subsequent evacuation from China after the Communists came to power in1949.Her letters from immediately after her1943repatriation include notes written during the difficult five-week sea journey that she made on her return to the United States. The letters from her second stay in China provide a detailed picture of the difficult living conditions for the Chinese people following WWII. She discusses how inflation and scarcity of food and other supplies affected the region of China where she had been working. She also discusses the difficult living conditions of the missionaries and the problems they had performing their work. Her letters in1949discuss the political situation in China, her struggles with making a decision to stay in China, and the day to day lives of the missionaries with whom she is working. There is a gap in correspondence from May of1949until1987when the correspondence series continues with letters Miss Stirewalt received from her friends and former students in China.
The Clippings Subseries includes news clippings of articles relating to Catherine Stirewalt's missionary activities during the1930sand1940sand copies of two1985articles from the journal East Asia Millions about the Weihsien concentration camp. Also included is a photocopy of the title page and title page verso of Langdon Gilkey's 1966book Shantung Compound: The Story of Men and Women Under Pressure.
The Miscellaneous Papers Subseries includes a copy of Catherine Stirewalt's travel itinerary for her journey to China in1939;two essays by other Lutheran Missionaries in China; a postcard view of St. Paul's Lutheran Church in Tsingtao China; two essays written by Stirewalt while in China; an 11 page memoir of her time spent in China, including her experiences in Weihsien concentration camp, written by Miss Stirewalt in1993;and 15 photographs of a1940cornerstone laying ceremony and of the Tsimo School Compound near Tsingtao.
Includes correspondence between M. Luther Stirewalt and his extended family, discussing his New Testament research interests and the donation of the Family Papers to Duke's Rubenstein Library Library. Also includes correspondence between Stirewalt and Eedman's Publishing, which published his book on Paul's letters in 2001.
Historical clippings and ephemera relating to the Stirewalt family and the history of the church.
Collection comprises a letter Stokes wrote to dramatist Benjamin Butler Davenport regarding her plan to attend his play "The Silent Assertion" with her husband. Includes enclosure.
Most of this collection is comprised of Stolper's files and notes from his work in Nigeria, Tunisia, and other missions to Africa. These work files document his career as a practitioner--literally working "in the field"--of development economics.
The Nigeria Series, the first and largest, contains his work files from his job as head of the Economic Planning Unit (EPU) in the Federal Ministry of Economic Development in Lagos, Nigeria from 1961-62 (sent there under the auspices of the Ford Foundation). As head of the EPU, Stolper co-authored the first ever National Development Plan, (1962-68) for the Federation of Nigeria. As such, his papers present an extensive and thorough picture of the Nigerian economy at that time. Once top secret files, they include detailed statistical data on each industry, industrialization plans, reports on marketing board policies, maps, and demographics data. Of great interest to researchers on the Nigerian economy might be Stolper's personal diary, a 393-page typewritten account of his two years in Nigeria.
The next two series pertain to his work in Tunisia (1972) and other economic missions to Africa, including Dahomey (now Benin) and Togo (1967), Benin (1983), and Malawi (1981). He was sent to these countries under the auspices of USAID, the UN, and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD, also known as the World Bank). The files from these three series alone make up eight of the fourteen storage boxes that house the entire collection. Also in the collection are some notes, papers and drafts of Professor Stolper's work pertaining to Joseph Schumpeter.
Stolper's name is perhaps most recognizable for the theoretical piece written with Paul Samuelson on what has come to be known as the Stolper-Samuelson Theorem (see "Protection and Real Wages," Review of Economic Studies, November 1941). This theorem, one of the core results of the Hecksher-Ohlin model of international trade, essentially states that an increase in the relative domestic price of a good (for example, via the imposition of a tariff) unambiguously raises the real return to the factor of production used intensively in producing that good (and lowers the real return to the other factor). This paper analyzed precisely for the first time the effect of trade or protection on real wages. At present, there is nothing (aside from reprints of the article) in this collection of papers dealing with the Stolper-Samuelson Theorem.
The fourth series, Writings, contains notes, drafts, manuscripts and reprints of any articles found in the collection but excluding those related to Joseph Schumpeter. Some highlights include drafts of "Investments in Africa South of the Sahara," notes and drafts of his book Planning Without Facts: Lessons in Resource Allocation from Nigeria's Development, and articles on smuggling in Africa.
The fifth series, Speeches, Lectures and Conferences, contains material (excluding those pertaining to Schumpeter) from public speaking engagements and conferences attended by Professor Stolper. One item that might be of interest is a speech recorded on magnetic tape titled "Problems of our Foreign Aid Program" that dates from around the 1950s.
Another of Professor Stolper's research interests is the history of economic thought, and this collection's Schumpeter series contains some notes, papers and drafts of Professor Stolper's work pertaining to Joseph Alois Schumpeter. Stolper was afforded a unique and personal relationship with Schumpeter, studying under him first at the University of Bonn and then at Harvard, and also through Schumpeter's position as a close friend of Gustav and Toni Stolper (Wolfgang's father and stepmother, respectively). Included in this series is a book (in German) that Professor Stolper co-wrote with Horst Claus Recktenwald and Frederic M. Scherer titled Uber Schumpeters »Theorie der wirtschaftlichen Entwicklung« (1988).
Stolper's work files from his job as head of the Economic Planning Unit for the Federal Ministry of Economic Development in Lagos. Sent there under the auspices of the Ford Foundation, one of his accomplishments was to help coordinate and write the first-ever National Development Plan for Nigeria. The files, after the diary, are arranged alphabetically. Highlights include his personal diary; drafts of an article titled "The Development of Nigeria" commissioned and published by Scientific American; detailed information and data on all aspects of the Nigerian economy; and various letters which are dispersed throughout the series.
The bulk of this series is made up of work files from Stolper's 1963-1965 economic mission in Tunis, but it also contains material (notes, data, and drafts) for a paper he cowrote with Jacob G. Kleve in 1973 titled "Investments, Employment and Productivity in the Tunisian Economy, 1961-1971," and a book titled Investments, Employment and Output Per Man in the Tunisian Economy, 1961-1971 (University of Michigan Center for Research on Economic Development), written in 1974. Arranged alphabetically, with the book at the end of the series.
Files from Stolper's economic missions to Togo and Dahomey (now Benin; 1967), Nigeria (1970), Malawi (1981), and Benin (1983). Includes correspondence with the missions' sponsoring organizations, memoranda, and background reading (economic briefing reports, maps, etc.) on each country. Arranged chronologically.
Notes, drafts, manuscripts, and reprints of articles, excluding those pertaining to Joseph A. Schumpeter. Arranged alphabetically.
Files related to Stolper's public speaking engagements and activities at conferences, excluding those pertaining to Joseph A. Schumpter. Arranged chronologically.
Stolper's drafts, manuscripts, and notes for articles and books pertaining to the Austrian economist Joseph A. Schumpeter. Arranged alphabetically.
The file titled "Course Outlines on Economic Development" contains different syllabi and reading lists compiled by a friend of Stolper's. The "Doctoral Committees" file contains paperwork pertaining to PhD committees that he sat on at the University of Michigan. Finally, the "Workload Records" folder contains paperwork listing the classes that Professor Stolper taught each semester at Michigan. Arranged chronologically.
A couple of letters that were found loose.
Correspondence with colleagues, including Paul Samuelson, Gottfried Haberler, and other prominent economists; class lectures (1930s); as well as writings about J. A. Schumpeter, economic development, and other topics. Also writings, reports, diaries, and other documents (mainly 1960s) about the economies of Nigeria, Tunisia, Liberia, Togo, and the Ivory Coast. In addition, there are 12 black-and-white and 18 color photographs, one x-ray, and 16 electronic files.
Text files; transcriptions of correspondence and diaries from 1960-1962.
The Chuck Stone Papers span the years 1931 to 2007. The collection consists of clippings and other print materials, correspondence, writings, scrapbooks, photographs, a videotape, research files, and diplomas and certificates pertaining to the life and career of Chuck Stone. Of the subject areas documented here are Stone's career as a prominent African-American journalist, his political career and relationship with Adam Clayton Powell, Jr. (including Powell's time as head of the Congressional Committee on Education and Labor), his role as a mediator between suspects and the criminal justice system, and his involvement in civil rights struggles in the United States. Also represented, but to a much lesser extent, is his teaching career at the University of Delaware and UNC-Chapel Hill. The collection is divided into nine series, each described below. Of these, the largest by far are the Clippings and the Subject Files series, which document respectively Stone's journalistic writings (especially during his time at the Philadelphia Daily News) and his research interests over the years, including racial politics in the U.S., African-Americans in the media, the criminal justice system, censorship and free speech, and standardized testing. The collection was acquired as part of the John Hope Franklin Collection of African and African-American Documentation.
The Adam Clayton Powell, Jr. Congressional Series documents Stone's time as press secretary and special assistant to Powell. It contains office and business correspondence both to and from Stone; clippings and other printed materials about Powell or the Committee on Education and Labor; office files on individual members of congress (notably Florida Democrat Sam Gibbons, partly responsible for the campaign to remove Powell from his position as head of the Committee); files related to the workings of the Committee; press releases written by Stone; and a number of papers relating to Powell's exclusion from Congress in 1967. This series should be useful both for those interested in the career of Powell, since Stone worked for him during a pivotal time in his career, and for those interested in the workings of the Committee on Education and Labor during that time.
The Clippings Series is made up predominantly of Stone's columns from the Philadelphia Daily News and the NEA Viewpoint (a Newspaper Enterprise Association column syndicated by United Media), as well as articles about Stone from various newspapers, and some writings by Stone appearing in other newspapers. Topics addressed by Stone in his columns include racial politics in the U.S., Philadelphia politics, the media, Ireland, Stone's travels in Africa, women's issues and feminism, the criminal justice system, and standardized testing. Researchers interested in Stone's journalism career prior to 1972 will find some earlier clippings here, but should consult the Scrapbooks Series for more extensive materials and clippings from that period.
The Correspondence Series contains correspondence to and from Stone relating to business and personal matters. The majority of this series is made up of general correspondence or correspondence relating to Stone's position as editor and columnist of the Philadelphia Daily News. The remainder of the series comprises topical folders of correspondence, such as the correspondence between Stone and Edward M. Ryder, an inmate at Graterford Prison. Other such correspondence can be found in the "Criminal justice system" subsection of the Subject Files Series.
The Other Writings Series houses Stone's writings not contained in the Clippings Series, such as speeches, sermons, and television transcripts; business documents and research files pertaining to different projects on which Stone worked, such as his attempts to develop his own life or his writings on Adam Clayton Powell, Jr. into a movie, or various uncompleted book projects; and a small subset of writings by others, including an autobiography of Corinne Huff on which Stone worked. It is divided into three subseries to accommodate the restriction on the collection: the Published Writings by Stone Subseries, the Unpublished Writings by Stone Subseries, and the Writings by Others Subseries. Notably absent from this series are manuscripts of Stone's books. Instead, the series contains either shorter published materials, such as publicly delivered speeches, or working documents assembled for the creation of larger works.
The Scrapbooks Series houses the contents of four scrapbooks assembled by Stone during the 1950s and 1960s. They contain a number of clippings, programs, and some correspondence pertaining to his time at the New York Age, the Washington Afro-American, the Chicago Defender, and working for Adam Clayton Powell, Jr. The series is especially useful for documenting Stone's early career and his position as an outspoken African-American journalist and defender of civil rights. Researchers interested in this period in Stone's life should also consult the Clippings Series for more materials from the period in question that are not present in the scrapbooks.
The St. Louis Series is a small series housing clippings and correspondence related to Stone's brief position as ombudsman for the St. Louis Post-Disptach, overseeing their coverage of the 1997 mayoral election. The series is divided into a Published Materials Subseries, which houses clippings from the Post-Dispatch and related newspapers, and an Unpublished Materials Subseries, in which can be found correspondence, business documents, and responses to several readers polls conducted by Stone.
In the Subject Files Series can be found Stone's research files on different subject areas, arranged alphabetically. The files contain primarily clippings, but also some correspondence and notes. Several subcategories that are heavily represented and should be mentioned are the files on censorship and the first amendment, on the criminal justice system, on standardized testing, and on materials relating to his time at UNC-Chapel Hill. There are also numerous files related to racial politics in the U.S., but these files are less discrete than the categories described above and are to be found throughout the series rather than under a specific subheading.
The Teaching Materials Series contains a small amount of material pertaining to Stone's teaching career. The bulk of this series comes from his time at UNC-Chapel Hill, and includes syllabi, exams, assignments, student papers, and other teaching paperwork. Most heavily represented in this regard is Stone's popular class on censorship, for which there are multiple syllabi and exams from different years and semesters.
Finally, the Audiovisual Materials Series collects photographs touching on all aspects of Stone's life, from press photos of Stone and Adam Clayton Powell, Jr. to family portraits. Also included in this series are a videotape of a documentary about Powell, press passes and identification badges, and an election pin kept by Stone.
Unprocessed Addition 2009-0009 (50 items; .2 lin. ft.; dated 1963-2005) comprises primarily photographs, but also contains a few letters, clippings, awards, and a dvd-r. The original DVD-R is closed to patron use; however, the information on the disk has been migrated to the electronic records server.
Addition 2012-0099 has been processed and included in the original collection's description as boxes 64-66. Some parts of this addition have been interfiled into existing boxes. This series documents Stone's activities as special assistant to Adam Clayton Powell, Jr. between 1965 and 1967, and includes speeches, press releases, correspondence between Powell and Stone, correspondence to and from other political figures and other members of Powell's staff, files on specific figures and organizations, clippings about Powell, and several folders of correspondence, clippings, and business documents specific to Powell's role as chair of the Committee on Education and Labor. The folders are labelled by topic and arranged alphabetically by title.
Series is comprised of clippings kept by Stone. The bulk of these are Stone's columns in the Philadelphia Daily News (1972-1991) and NEA Viewpoint (1987-1995), which deal with topics such as racial politics in the U.S., Philadelphia politics, the media, Ireland, Stone's travels in Africa, women's issues and feminism, the criminal justice system, and standardized testing, among others. Also included are materials documenting Stone's early journalism career from the New York Age, New York Citizen-Call, Chicago Daily Defender, and Washington Afro-American; clippings from various sources documenting Stone's interests and research; and articles about Stone from various publications. Of interest may also be the selection of clippings from 1972-1974 from the Philadelphia Daily News that Stone made, apparently for a planned sequel to Tell it Like it Is, his 1967 book of selected columns from the Washington Afro-American. These can be found at the end of the clippings from the Daily News, under the subheading " Tellin' it Like it Oughta Be columns."
Contains Stone's correspondence from the 1960s to 2005. In keeping with Stone's original arrangement, some folders are categorized by topic, while others simply house general correspondence within a particular span of years.
Of particular interest in the topical folders is the correspondence relating to black political power in America (the topic, not only Stone's book of the same title) and the correspondence with Edward M. Ryder, an inmate at the State Correctional Facility at Graterford, PA from 1973-1993. Also to be found are two folders of correspondence from a number of individuals related to Stone's role as negotiator in the hostage crisis at Graterford in 1981.
The bulk of the remainder of the series is made up of two categories. One is simply general correspondence. These folders contain correspondence from such figures as Martin Luther King, Jr., Jackie Robinson, Nelson A. Rockefeller, Barry Goldwater, LeRoi Jones, Edward Kennedy, and others, along with family correspondence and business correspondence both to and from Stone from the 1960s to the 2000s. The other is correspondence specific to Stone's position as editor and columnist at the Philadelphia Daily News, which includes internal memos and letters with other staff members, letters from readers, and business letters relevant to his position at the newspaper. Researchers should be aware that these appear to be rough categorizations on Stone's part, and that there are a few letters specific to his role at the Philadelphia Daily News in the general correspondence folders, and some general business correspondence in the Philadelphia Daily News folders.
It should also be noted that correspondence on particular topics can also be found in relevant series. For instance, correspondence with or relating to Adam Clayton Powell, Jr. is to be found in that series. Researchers interested in Stone's role with the Graterford crisis and his correspondence with prison inmates should also consult the Criminal justice system files in the Subject Files Series.
Comprised of materials relating to writing and other media projects beyond the columns found in the Clippings Series. It is divided into three subseries: Published Writings by Stone, Unpublished Writings by Stone, and Writings by Others. Detailed series descriptions follow below.
Contains speeches, sermons, and transcripts of television broadcasts (on WCIU Chicago) by Stone.
Houses unpublished writings by Stone, such as an introduction written for the unpublished volume The Poetry of the Black Revolution, as well as documentation of other projects undertaken by Stone, ranging from book and syndication contracts to research files set aside for use in several uncompleted works, such as Free Speech and Jealous Mistresses and, with Dennis Jackson, Mass Communication Law in Delaware. Also found here are manuscripts of various movie or stage adaptations of Stone's novelization of his time with Adam Clayton Powell, Jr., as well as business documents relating to his attempts to secure a movie deal.
Comprises a graduate student's dissertation manuscript from 2001, and two folders of materials related to the unpublished autobiography of Corinne Huff, former Miss America and mistress to Adam Clayton Powell, Jr. Stone assisted Huff in the planning and possibly also the composition of the autobiography, and the files document that process of collaboration.
Series houses the contents of four scrapbooks kept by Stone, disbound for preservation purposes and housed in archival folders. The materials document Stone's media appearances, journalism career, and public relationship with Adam Clayton Powell, Jr. from the 1950s to the end of the 1960s. Each scrapbook deals with a different period of Stone's life, as designated by the bulk dates for each scrapbook, and has been supplied by the archivist with an appropriate name. The first houses clippings, mostly from the New York Age, documenting Stone's time with that newspaper. The second includes clippings, programs, and correspondence collected while Stone was correspondent for and editor of the Washington Afro-American. It also contains several columns by Stone in the New York Citizen-Call, letters by Stone that appeared in the New York Times and The Washington, D.C. Evening Star, and a number of clippings about Stone from various Washington and national newspapers. The third scrapbook houses clippings, programs, leaflets, and a small amount of correspondence documenting Stone's time in Chicago, where he was columnist for and editor of the Chicago Defender and, later, television commentator for WCIU Chicago. The Powell scrapbook documents Stone's activities as press secretary and special assistant to Adam Clayton Powell, Jr. and contains clippings, correspondence, programs, leaflets, and flyers, as well as a folder of miscellaneous articles and media appearances by Stone spanning from the 1960s to 1990.
Folders contain materials related to Stone's position as Readers' Advocate for the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, where he was hired to oversee their coverage of the mayoral campaign. The series is divided into two subseries, Published Materials and Unpublished Materials, in accordance with the restriction placed on the collection.
Includes clippings from St. Louis newspapers, primarily the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, as well as wire service printouts from the time during and immediately preceding Stone's term as ombudsman.
Includes unpublished documents and correspondence pertaining to Stone's position as Reader's Advocate for the St. Louis Post-Dispatch.
Houses Stone's extensive files in many different subject areas, consisting primarily of clippings, but also containing notes on the topics and some minimal correspondence. The folders have been preserved as closely to their original order as possible, and Stone's titles have been retained. The exception to this is a set of subheadings that were added to four groups of folders that were physically and topically associated by Stone, and which are of particular interest. These are his files on censorship and the first amendment, on which he intended to write a book (Free Speech and Jealous Mistresses, unpublished) and taught regularly throughout the 1990s; on the criminal justice system, focused around issues of racism within that system and on Stone's activities as a mediator between the police and inmates or suspected criminals; on the politics and racial bias of standardized testing, an issue with which he became involved while working with the Education and Labor Committee under Adam Clayton Powell, Jr.; and files relating to his academic career, activities, and institutional politics at the University of North Carolina. These can be found under the subheadings Censorship,Criminal justice system,Standardized testing, and UNC respectively. The files on censorship are especially numerous (filling six archival boxes) and contain extensive information on censorship law, types of censorship, and individual instances of censorship. Other topics in this series include black political power in the U.S., minority journalists, women's issues and feminism, affirmative action, religion, electoral politics in the U.S., journalism, multiculturalism and political correctness, higher education, gay and lesbian issues, Philadelphia politics and politicians, and racial politics more generally. There are also significant files on such figures as Mumia Abu Jamal, Jesse Jackson, Martin Luther King Jr., Camille Paglia, Colin Powell, and Clarence Thomas. Subject files relating specifically to Stone's duties as special assistant to Adam Clayton Powell, Jr. can be found in the Adam Clayton Powell, Jr. Congressional Series.
Contains documents Stone created or collected relating to his teaching career at the University of Delaware and the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill. It is made up of syllabi, exams, assignments, and notes on pedagogy and academic subject areas related to journalism. The majority of the series deals with his course on censorship, which he developed at Delaware and refined while at UNC.
Twelve VHS videotapes and six audiocassettes containing interviews with Stone and including a documentary on Adam Clayton Powell, Jr., from 1977. Contains black-and-white and color photographs of Stone, family members, friends, and colleagues, including a number of photographs of Adam Clayton Powell, Jr. Among the more notable figures appearing with Stone in photographs here are Malcolm X, Léopold Senghor, Nelson Rockefeller, Jesse Jackson, Henry Kissinger, Walter Mondale, John Glenn, and Dick Gregory. Also to be found here are postcards collected during a trip to India, and several press passes and identification badges.
Comprises primarily (folder 1) photographs, but also contains a few letters, clippings, awards, and a dvd-r. The original DVD-R (folder 2) is closed to patron use; however, the information on the disk has been migrated to the electronic records server.
The Peter Storey Papers contain correspondence, datebooks, articles, lectures, sermons, committee and subject files, clippings, scrapbooks, videotapes, and electronic records. The collection documents Peter Storey's leadership and active involvement in the Methodist Church of Southern Africa, the South African Council of Churches, the Central Methodist Mission in Johannesburg, the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, Gun Free South Africa, and other religious and anti-apartheid groups. Major subjects include Nelson Mandela, Winnie Mandela, urban ministry, crisis intervention, and political violence and elections in South Africa. Materials range in date from circa 1950 to 2014. Acquired as part of the Human Rights Archive. Series includes of data CDs containing scanned versions of documents found in the Correspondence and Subject Files Series of the Peter Storey Papers. The contents of each disk have been transferred to an archival storage server. The majority of the files are Portable Document Format (PDF), with few JPG and other formats present. Disks 19 and 20 of 21 were not received. A complete list of the file names and directory structure of the disks is available for reference.
Also included are files extracted from a USB thumb drive, covering courses Storey taught for the Duke Divinity School, documents from Storey's work with the Seth Mokitimi Methodist Seminary (SMMS), writings, and some scanned material, as well as correspondence in both email and word processing formats.
Includes document files in PDF format.
Includes document files in PDF format.
A document file in PDF format.
Includes document files in PDF format.
1 file; approximately 650 megabytes.
Includes document files in PDF format.
Includes document files in PDF format.
Includes document files in PDF format.
Includes document files in PDF format.
Includes document files in PDF format.
Includes document files in PDF format.
A document file in PDF format
Includes document files in PDF format.
Includes document files in PDF format.
Includes document files in PDF format.
Includes document files in PDF format.
Includes still image files in JPEG format.
Includes a still image file in JPEG format and a document file in MS Word format.
Includes document files in MS Word and Lotus WordPro formats. Dates taken from filenames rather than modified timestamps.
Includes document files in MS Word and PDF formats.
Includes document files in MS Word format.
Primarily includes document files in MS Word, PowerPoint, and PDF formats.
Includes document files in MS Word, Excel, and PowerPoint formats.
Primarily includes document files in MS Word format.
Includes document files in MS Word format.
Includes document files in MS Word format.
Includes document files in MS Word and plain text formats.
Includes document files in MS Word and PDF formats.
Includes document files in MS Word format.
Includes document files in MS Word format.
Includes document files (MS Word and PDF formats) and still image files (JPEG format).
Primarily includes document files in MS Word and PDF formats.
Includes document files in MS Word format.
Includes document files in MS Word, PDF, plain text, and WordPro formats.
Primarily includes document files in MS Word format.
Primarily includes still image files in JPEG format.
Includes document files in MS Word format.
Includes still images files (JPEG format) and document files (MS Word format). Dates taken from filenames rather than the modified timestamp.
Primarily includes document files in MS Word format. Dates taken from filenames rather than modified timestamp.
Includes document files (MS Word format) and still image files (JPEG format).
Includes still image files in JPEG format.
Includes document files (MS Word, PDF, MS PowerPoint, MS Excel, plain text, and RTF formats), still image files (JPEG format), and an audio file (MP3 format).
Includes document files in MS Word format.
Includes document files in PDF and MS Word format.
Primarily includes document files in MS Word, MS PowerPoint, and PDF formats.
Includes document files in MS Word and PDF formats.
Includes email messages in PST format, as well as a copy migrated into MBOX format.
Includes email messages in EML format, as well as a copy migrated into MBOX format.
Includes email messages in EML format, as well as a copy migrated into MBOX format.
Includes email messages in EML format, as well as a copy migrated into MBOX format.
Includes email messages in EML format, as well as a copy migrated into MBOX format.
Includes email messages in EML format, as well as a copy migrated into MBOX format.
Includes email messages in EML format, as well as a copy migrated into MBOX format.
Includes email messages in EML format, as well as a copy migrated into MBOX format.
Includes email messages in EML format, as well as a copy migrated into MBOX format.
Includes email messages in EML format, as well as a copy migrated into MBOX format.
Includes email messages in EML format, as well as a copy migrated into MBOX format.
Includes email messages in EML format, as well as a copy migrated into MBOX format.
Includes email messages in EML format, as well as a copy migrated into MBOX format.
Includes email messages in EML format, as well as a copy migrated into MBOX format.
Includes email messages in EML format, as well as a copy migrated into MBOX format.
Includes email messages in EML format, as well as a copy migrated into MBOX format.
Includes email messages in EML format, as well as a copy migrated into MBOX format.
Includes email messages in EML format, as well as a copy migrated into MBOX format.
Includes email messages in EML format, as well as a copy migrated into MBOX format.
Chiefly sermons, clippings, and printed material of J. Doane Stott relating to his missionary work in Japan and ministry in North Carolina, as well as his lecture notes reflecting his time spent at Trinity College and Duke University. Papers also include items relating to Mr. Stott's involvement with CROP (Christian Rural Overseas Program), the Greensboro Urban Ministry, as well as the Lion's Club.
The Correspondence Series, featuring material mainly from friends and churches, contains references for Mr. Stott from various North Carolina politicians and businessmen and church invitations asking him to conduct services.
Although most of the Writings and Speeches Series consists of sermons, class assignments, or debates, there is some printed material included if the items contained handwritten notes. The Brotherhood folder contains sermons and other items relating to race relations, mostly within the context of the Methodist church and its relationship with African Americans. The Sermons and Notes folder include several eulogies and many prayers by Mr. Stott and other ministers, which cover a wide range of topics from the scriptures. Some of these sermons have been transliterated into Japanese.
The Printed Material Series includes pamphlets, bulletins, church programs, maps, loose printed pages, as well as journals and books. Most of this material is on either church- or missionary-related topics. There are also a few Duke University alumni publications included.
The Miscellaneous Series contains many songs and poems, a photograph of a class at Kagawa Central Gospel School in Japan, as well as items relating to Japan and Greensboro, North Carolina.
Collection comprises an introduction and a letter written by Harriet Beecher Stowe, along with a carte de visite of her. There is an undated introduction she wrote for the second edition of Narrative of Sojourner Truth. Stowe's statement appears as an introduction in some copies of the 1853 edition. In the introduction, Stowe discusses the African-American abolitionist and women's rights activist, remarking on her mental energy and revelatory powers as a Christian, and attests to Truth's character. She then mentions that the sales of the work will "secure a home for [Truth in] her old age ..." There is an undated letter Stowe wrote from Northampton Depot on Aug. 10 to Mr. Ward, informing him that although she is disposed to support his request, she is under pressures that limit her use of the pen. The carte de visite features a textured surface, and was created by the Howell studio in New York.
 This collections contains vestry minutes, correspondence, minutes from various organizations within the church, rector's notes, church bulletins and programs, slides, photographs, financial records, appointment books, scrapbooks, clippings, canvass reports, auditor's reports, sermons, and printed materials. Also included are the records, notes, and correspondence related to parish historian Harold Parker's history of the church (published in 1997), as well as a complete file of the church's extant sermons (1912-1994) Parker compiled for another book. There are also five reels of microfilm containing copies of vestry minutes, marriage records, a church register, etc., organized by Mr. Parker into roughly chronological order and divided into sections by rectorship.
Given by S.S. Class of Calvary, Tarboro in 1881, used until 1960
A complete file of the extant sermons (1912-1994) collected by Harold Parker, Parish Historian, who compiled the sermons for a book entitled "Sermons from St. Philip's." Also included is corresondence relating to the book and Parker's notes about the sermons. The bulk of the extant sermons consist of 120 sermons written by L. Bartine Sherman (rector 1957-1967).
This addition further documents church thinking, and also its activities when preparing and publishing a church history. There is an unbound version of St. Philip's published book of seventy sermons as well as the sermons rejected for the book; writing/sermons by Sidney Stuart Bost and others; correspondence, notes and more items related to the preparation of "The History of St. Philip's;" correspondence, photographs, and other items concerning Rev. Midyette's rectorship; and additional sermons.
Addition contains primarily typescript manuscripts and various edited page proofs for Harold T. Parker's "Sermons from St. Philip's." Also includes correspondence regarding the publication of the book and a typescript manuscript, "Chronologies: Harold T. Parker--An Atom in Chaos," that details his life in relation to selected world events.
The Deena Stryker Photographs collection spans the dates 1963-1964 and contains photographs and related material from Stryker's time in Cuba as a journalist for Paris Match. During her stay, she interviewed and photographed Fidel and Raúl Castro as well as other male and female leaders in the Cuban Revolution, including Ernesto Ché Guevara, Juan Almeida, Luis Crespo, Armando Acosta, Armando Hart Dávalos, Efigenio Ameijeiras Delgado, Faustino Pérez, Manuel Fajardo Sotomayor, César Escalante, Jesus Montane, Antonio Núñez Jímenez, Guillermo García Frías, Celia Sánchez, Ramiro Valdes Menendez, and René Vallejo.
The Photographic Materials Series contains Stryker's contact sheets, prints, and negatives created during the one-year period; all the photographic material processed by Alberto Korda, Fidel Castro's personal photographer. Topics and photographic subjects include key members of the revolutionary government, male and female, at work and relaxing with family members; life in Havana, including neighborhood and street scenes, and post-revolution housing projects; political rallies and meetings; and daily life and work in rural Cuba, particularly farms, agricultural workers, development projects, and schools. There are also images of Afro Cubans, religious life, and photos of major events such as the Havana trial of accused Batista collaborator Marcos Alfonso in March 1964, and the capture of Cuban fishing vessels by the U.S. Coast Guard in Feb. 1964.
The Correspondence Series contains letters of introduction to Fidel Castro from Stryker as well as one written by Sánchez and a diagram drawn by Raúl Castro. Stryker's analysis of the complexities of nascent post-revolution Cuba is captured in an Italian manuscript draft of the book she prepared for publication in Italy, housed in the Manuscript Materials Series.
An addition to the collection consists of prints produced from the original negatives by documentary photographer Cedric Chatterley for a 2010 exhibit on Deena Stryker's work, with a few other prints used in the exhibit created by Alberto Korda in the 1960s.
All of Stryker's negatives have been digitized and these images are available in their digital form. There are some prints and contact sheet images not represented digitally. Digital images and captions created by the photographer have been transferred to a library server.
Acquired by the Archive of Documentary Arts at Duke University.
Contains a letter from Stryker to Fidel Castro inquiring about the possibility of interviewing him, a letter of introduction for Stryker written by Celia Sánchez, and a sketch of the Cuban military command structure hand-drawn and signed by Raúl Castro.
Contains an edited draft of Cronache dall'isola dei diavoli rossi, Stryker's unpublished Italian manuscript account and analysis of Cuban politics and society based on her time there; it became the basis for When the revolution was young, published in 2004.
Consists of contact sheets, prints, and negatives of photographs taken by Stryker while in Cuba from December 1963 to June 1964. Captions were created by the photographer. All photographic films were processed by Alberto Korda, Cuba's official photographer during the revolution. Series includes numerous photographs of Fidel Castro acting in his official role, speaking at rallies and parades, visiting farms, and awaiting the return of Cuban fishing boats detained by the U.S. government. In addition, Stryker documents Fidel Castro relaxing at home with friends, exercising, and writing. Other prominent revolutionaries and government individuals photographed include: Ernesto Ché Guevara, Juan Almeida, Luis Crespo, Armando Acosta, Armando Hart Dávalos, Efigenio Ameijeiras Delgado, Faustino Pérez, Manuel Fajardo Sotomayor, César Escalante, Jesus Montane, Antonio Núñez Jímenez, Guillermo García Frías, Celia Sánchez, Ramiro Valdes Menendez, and René Vallejo.
Other photographs chronicle life in Havana, including Carnaval, as well as the Cuban countryside, particularly the Sierra Madre and Isla de Turiguanó, Bayamo, Camagüey, and Guamá. Two rolls of film document the damage to cane fields and villages in rural Cuba in the aftermath of Hurricane Flora in late 1963. Many of the contact sheets are annotated. Negatives, contact sheets, and prints are organized sequentially by film roll; uncategorized prints and prints without negatives appear at the end of the series. All of Stryker's negatives have been digitized and these images are available in their digital form. There are a few prints and contact sheets not represented digitally.
Most of these black-and-white gelatin silver prints were produced by documentary photographer Cedric Chatterley expressly for a 2010 exhibit on Stryker's work. The prints were derived from Stryker's original negatives housed in this collection; others were derived from prints produced earlier by Alberto Korda. The prints in the first set (boxes 3-4) are in window mats and were the final selection chosen for hanging in the 2010 exhibit. The rest of the prints (Box 5) are unmatted. In this box there is one set of 10 prints produced by Chatterley, with two duplicate sets; plus, The number of duplicates for an image is noted in parentheses following the original exhibit print.
The 22 black-and-white prints in boxes 3 and 4 measure 7x10.5 in. and are mounted in 16x22 mats. One set of 22 duplicate unmatted prints are located in box 5.
Orig. print number: 1092513-R3-E330
Orig. print number: 6666673-R3-E219
Fidel Castro at the Paula Pier in Havana harbor awaiting the return of crew members from four Cuban fishing vessels captured by the United States Coast Guard
Orig. print number: 6666663-R3-E350
The trial of Marcos "Marquitos" Rodriguez Alfonso, who was accused of working for dictator Fulgencio Batista's secret police in 1957
Orig. print number: 6666673-R3-E177
Orig. print number: 6666673-R3-E267
Raul Castro and his daughter Deborah Castro Espín, the first of his four children with Vilma Espín Guillois, a fellow revolutionary and founder of the Cuban Women's Federation. This image provides a rare look at the father/daughter relationship. Raul Castro later became the President of the Cuban Council of State and the Council of Ministers. His daughter was an advisor to the Ministry of Education.
Orig. print number: 1092513-R4-E457
Celia Sanchez was the organizer of the first all female guerrilla brigade (Brigada Mariana Grajales) in the 26th of July Movement and a key official of the post-1959 government. She served as the Secretary to the Presidency of the Council of State, as a member of the National Assembly, a member of the Central Committee of the Cuban Communist Party, and was one of Fidel Castro's closest advisors. She directed many post-revolutionary construction projects and is shown here at the site of La Guira National Park.
Orig. print number: 1092513-R2-E291
Orig. print number: 1092513-R3-E395
Carlos Rafael Rodriguez was a writer, economist and political protagonist whose activism crossed multiple phases of Cuban history. He participated in the overthrow of dictator Gerardo Machado in the 1930s; served as a Cabinet Minister under Fulgencio Batista in the 1940s and in 1958 negotiated an agreement between the Cuban Communist Party, of which he was a prominent member, and Fidel Castro in support of the overthrow of Batista. After 1959 he held various senior positions in the revolutionary government. Author Tad Szulc called him, "A most affable man of considerable learning and sophistication as well as a prolific writer, he has been Fidel's most valuable collaborator, politically and intellectually, since the 1959 victory."
Orig. print number: 1092513-R2-E297
Commandante Juan Almeida Bosque, one of the Cuban Revolution's most prominent commanders and perhaps the highest-ranking Afro-Cuban in a position of political leadership. Almeida was active in the Communist Party and served as Vice-President of the Cuban Council of State.
Orig. print number: 1092531-R3-E596
Commandante Ramiro Valdes, one of the original members of the revolutionary 26th of July Movement and Cuba's Vice President under Raul Castro.
Orig. print number: 1092531-R2-E188
Orig. print number: 1092531-R1-E079
After 1959, Havana expanded toward the east with construction of housing projects like La Habana del Este.
Orig. print number: 1092531-R2-E206
A café and store in Biran, Fidel Castro's home town. Biran lay within the zone of the U.S.-owned United Fruit Company.
Orig. print number: 1092531-R3-E429
Despite their relative lack of visibility in the revolutionary leadership after 1959, women played an important role in the struggle against Batista.
Orig. print number: 1092531-R3-E382
An image of Fidel rises behind a May Day parade. The quote says, "We have made a revolution greater than ourselves. Marxism-Leninism Lives!"
Orig. print number: 1092513-R4-E446
Orig. print number: 1092531-R3-E273
Those who were born in the years before the Revolution and came of age within it, like this young boy photographed in Palma Soriano, occupy a unique sociological niche in Cuba's generational landscape.
Orig. print number: 1092513-R1-E095
Treasure Lagoon, a resort built on drained swamp near Bay of Pigs. The construction of new recreation facilities for workers reflected the Cuban government's interest in converting its lucrative and foreign dominated pre-revolutionary tourist industry for domestic use.
Orig. print number: 1092531-R2-E227
A view of construction in the eastern section of the country. The new government built throughout the island in an effort to reduce migration to the capital as occurred in other Latin American countries.
Orig. print number: 1092531-R3-E528
A class at the Makarenko Teacher's Institute, founded as a training site for "revolutionary instructors." Many students were former participants in the 1961 Literacy Campaign. The campaign, which mobilized a quarter of a million young people to teach more than 700,000 rural Cubans to read and write, reduced the country's illiteracy rate from 23% to 4%
Orig. print number: 1092531-R3-E330
Socialization to the values and icons of the new revolutionary society took place not only in schools but through popular culture products like toys and cartoons.
Orig. print number: 1092513-R4-E435
Box contains prints produced by Cedric Chatterley, documentary photographer, in 2010. There is one complete set of 22 duplicate prints of the matted prints in boxes 3-4; one set of 10 prints with different images that were used in the online exhibit (with 2 duplicate sets, for a total of 3 sets of 10 prints each); and one set of 9 prints that are selected second duplicates of the matted prints. The online exhibit also displays several images that are not present in the Exhibit Prints Series.
Three sets of 10 identical duplicates each.
Orig. print number: 6666663-R3-E371
Orig. print number: 1092513-R2-E279
Orig. print number: 1092531-R2-E199
Orig. print number: 6666663-R3-E255
Orig. print number: 1092513-R2-E255
Orig. print number: 6666673-R3-E261
Orig. print number: 1092531-R2-E162
Orig. print number: 1092531-R2-E204
Orig. print number: 1092513-R2-E247
Orig. print number: 1092513-R4-E494
[Cuban revolutionary, chemical engineer, feminist, president of the Cuban Federation of Women from 1960 until her death. Married to Raul Castro in 1959, died in Havana in 2007.]
Includes images of Fidel Castro from Paris Match, and an article on Cuba by Stryker from the Italian magazine Settimo Giorno (1963-1964).
Includes 26 sugoroku games (some items are double-sided), primarily dating from the 1910s to 1930s, with a few earlier and later. Many games have a military theme, but others themes include animals, science, Hollywood actors, and travel.
Publisher: Publisher not indicated (likely 新愛知 / Shin-Aichi);
Other names associated: 堤寒三 (Tsutsumi Kanzō - art);
Summary of Game: Sugoroku with spaces for different activities and famous people all over the world, including Charlie Chaplin in Hollywood, famous sports figures, Mussolini in Italy, etc.;
Other Notes: Came as bonus with 新愛知 (Shin-Aichi) (serial title) no. 4129. Appears to be this item: https://www.asiabookroom.com/pages/books/163414/kanzo-tsutsumi/manga-sugoroku-sekai-hayanozoki-a-brief-peek-at-the-world;
Dimensions: 80 x 53 cm;
Date as written: Showa 6
Publisher: 実業の日本社 (實業之日本社) (Jitsugyō no Nihon-sha);
Other names associated: 明石赤子(Akashi Akako - art), 日本少年編輯局 (Nihon shōnen henshūkyoku - concept);
Summary of Game: Take off and land your plane safely. Two routes (red and blue). Play instructions included on board;
Other Notes: Came as a bonus with 日本少年 (Nihon shōnen) (serial title) volume 7, issue 1;
Date as written: Meiji 45, January
Publisher: 大日本雄弁会 講談社 (Dai-Nihon Yūben-kai Kōdansha);
Other names associated: 伊藤幾久造 (Itō Kikuzō), 飯塚羚児 (Iizuka Reiji - art);
Summary of Game: Sugoroku following the activities of the brave Japanese army, including grenade throwing, building railroads, night patrols, aerial dogfights, etc.;
Other Notes: Came as bonus with 幼年倶楽部 (Yōnen kurabu) (serial title) - no issue listed;
Dimensions: 53 x 77 cm;
Date as written: Showa 13
Publisher: not indicated on this side;
Other names associated: 古賀忠道 (Koga Tadamichi - guidance), Tokyo Ueno Zoo director , 椛島勝一 (Kabashima Katsuichi - art);
Summary of Game: Sugoroku game with facts about zoo animals, including tigers, kangaroos, eagles, flying fish, etc.;
Other Notes: Came as bonus with 幼年倶楽部 (Yōnen kurabu,) (serial title) - no issue listed;
Dimensions: 53 x 77 cm
Publisher: not indicated beyond magazine title (少年少女譚海, Shōnen shōjo tankai);
Other names associated: 村上松次郎 (Murakami Matsujirō - art);
Summary of Game: Games are numbered (two-sided board): #1 first side of board, pictures and dice rolls listed, large circle in center "take-off";
Other Notes: Came as bonus with 少年少女譚海 (Shōnen shōjo tankai) (serial title) volume 16, issue 1;
Date as written: Showa 10
Publisher: Printer listed, but no publisher other than magazine title (Shōnen shōjo tankai);
Other names associated: 村上松次郎 (Murakami Matsujirō - art), 少年少女譚海 (Shōnen shōjo tankai);
Summary of Game: Games are numbered: #3 大空襲爆撃遊戯 (Dai kūshū bakugeki yūgi) (two-player territory control game, rules included); #4 新案マラソン競争遊戯 (Shin'an marason kyōsō yūgi) (race game around outer red track, rules included); #5 猛獣狩点取遊戯 (Mōjū-gari tentori yūgi) (4-player point-taking big game hunting game. Requires 12 cut-out animal cards, not present; rules included on board);
Other Notes: Came as bonus with 少年少女譚海 (Shōnen shōjo tankai) (serial title) volume 16, issue 1;
Date as written: Showa 10
Publisher: not indicated;
Other names associated: 陸軍機甲本部 (Rikugun kikō honbu, the Army armored vehicle/tank headquarters - guidance);
Summary of Game: Sugoroku with photographic images of tanks and facts about them. (Vendor note: photos are from the Battle of Nomonhan/Khalkhin Gol, in which Japanese forces fought mechanized units from the Soviet Union);
Other Notes: Came as bonus with 機械化 (Kikaika) #13 - Duke holds original Kikaika issues;
Dimensions: 20" x 27.5"
Publisher: not indicated;
Other names associated: none indicated;
Summary of Game: Diagram of modern tank, images of tanks and armored war vehicles through history. Short text with same title, describing the evolution of the tank;
Other Notes: Bonus with 機械化 (Kikaika) #13 - Duke holds original Kikaika issues;
Dimensions: 20" x 27.5"
Publisher: 大日本雄弁会 (Dai-Nihon Yūben-kai);
Other names associated: 小林永二郎 (Kobayashi Eijiro - art), 尺秀三郎 (Seki Hidesaburō - concept);
Summary of Game: Allied forces vs. German (whole board);
Other Notes: Came as bonus with 少年倶楽部 (Shōnen kurabu) (serial title) volume 3, issue 1;
Date as written: Taisho 5, January
Publisher: 実業の日本社 (實業之日本社) (Jitsugyō no Nihon-sha);
Other names associated: 有本芳水 (Arimoto Hōsui - guidance), poet; 川端龍子 (Kawabata Ryūshi - art), Nihonga painter;
Summary of Game: Sugoroku game about the siege/battle of Seitō (Qingdao/Tsingtao, China). Players play as either the army or navy attacking the German army at Qingdao, encountering various challenges, etc.;
Other Notes: Came as new year's bonus with 日本少年 (Nihon shōnen) in Taisho 4 (1915);
Dimensions: 21" x 31"
Publisher: 飛行少年研究会 (Hikō shōnen kenkyūkai);
Other names associated: 谷洗馬 (Tani Senba - art), famous 20th century illustrator; 仲摩鐵堂 (Nakama Tetsudō - guidance). Some images specifically signed in romanized letters "G. Senba Tani" and dated 1915 or 1916;
Summary of Game: Sugoroku game featuring major activities/skills of airforce/army aviators. Images include dogfights, sea battles, reconaissance, zepplins, etc.;
Other Notes: Came as bonus with 飛行少年 (Hikō shōnen), volume 2, issue 1, January 1st Taisho 5;
Dimensions: 21.25" x 30.75";
Date as written: 1916 (Taisho 5)
Publisher: 日本発明新聞社 (Nihon Hatsumei Shinbunsha);
Other names associated: 日本発明新聞社 (Nihon Hatsumei Shinbunsha) (Japan Invention Newspaper) editors - guidance, 下馬三郎 (Shimouma Saburō - art);
Summary of Game: In commemoration of the Nobel prize awarded to Dr. Yukawa (1949);
Other Notes: Original envelope
Publisher: 日本発明新聞社 (Nihon Hatsumei Shinbunsha);
Other names associated: none indicated;
Summary of Game: Sugoroku game with facts about nuclear/atomic science (incl. images of cyclotron, Marie Curie, Alfred Nobel, Yukawa Hideki, Bohr model of the atom, x-rays, etc.);
Other Notes: Game board;
Dimensions: 75 x 52 cm for game board
Publisher: 博文館 (Hakubunkan);
Other names associated: 金子士郎 (Kaneko Shiro - art), 少年世界編輯局 (Shōnen sekai henshūkyoku - concept);
Summary of Game: Sugoroku board game, attached description says "Siberian expedition and occupation" - large color images, numbered;
Other Notes: Came as bonus with 少年世界 (Shōnen sekai) (serial title) volume 33, issue 1;
Date as written: Taisho 6, January
Publisher: 博文館 (Hakubunkan);
Other names associated: no other attributions;
Summary of Game: Sugoroku board game about Amaga Chinsuke & shinai (bamboo sword) training - unrelated to reverse-side game. (Only printed in green);
Other Notes: Came as bonus with 少年世界 (Shōnen sekai) (serial title) volume 33, issue 1;
Date as written: Taisho 6, January
Publisher: Ōhashi Kо̄kichi 大橋光吉;
Other names associated: Editor and Writer (編輯兼發行人): Utagawa Hitoshi 宇田川釣, Nakamura Hoshika 中村星果, concept (案), Sawai Ichisaburо̄ 澤井一三郎, illustrations (畫);
Other notes: Magazine: Shōjo kurabu 少女倶楽部 ("Young Girls' Club"), 第十八巻: Issue no. 18, 第一號附録: Supplement no. 1;
Dimensions: 53x79 cm;
Date as written: Showa 15.
Map of China and Manchuria printed on reverse.
Publisher: 大日本雄弁会 (printed by 博文館) (Dai-Nihon Yūben-kai (printed by Hakubunkan));
Other names associated: 佐藤信夫 (Satō Nobuo [?] - concept/design);
Summary of Game: "World powers race", 8 countries, playing pieces for military branches/groups, rules of play on board;
Other Notes: Came as bonus with 少年世界 (Shōnen sekai) (serial title) volume 4, issue 1;
Date as written: Taisho 6, January
Publisher: 日光社 (Nikkō-sha);
Other names associated: no other attributions;
Summary of Game: "Cutting-edge weapon sugoroku", each place on the board features a cutting-edge military weapon;
Other Notes: No notes or information about rules or origin present;
Dimensions: 54 x 39 cm
Publisher: not indicated;
Other names associated: no other attributions;
Summary of Game: Small sugoroku board about saving money as patriotic duty, route to happiness, and protection in emergencies;
Other Notes: Came as bonus with 安田貯蓄貯金読本 (Yasuda chochiku chokin dokuhon) - 安田貯蓄貯金 (Yasuda Chochiku Ginkō appears to be name of bank);
Dimensions: 11"x15"
Publisher: スモーヤ 稲葉春吉 (Sumōya Inaba Haruyoshi);
Other names associated: 稲葉春吉 (Inaba Haruyoshi) appears to be the personal name associated with corporate name スモーヤ Sumo-ya / Sumōya;
Summary of Game: Airplane sugoroku, with spaces for refuling, parachuting, night flying, etc.;
Dimensions: 54 x 38 cm
Publisher: 主婦の友 (Shufu no tomo);
Other names associated: 主婦の友編輯局 (Shufu no tomo henshūkyoku - guidance), 嶺田弘 (Mineda Hiroshi - art), illustrator;
Summary of Game: Next to title: 皇軍勇士慰問・銃後家庭慰問 (Kōgun yūshi imon / Jūgo katei imon) "Condolences/sympathy for the brave soldiers of the imperial army, condolences/sympathy for those on the homefront". Sugoroku game about the Sino-Japanese war, interim government of Manchuria, activities supporting the troops at war, etc. Includes un-cut die template and cards with silhouettes of planes, ships, etc.;
Other Notes: Came as a new year's bonus with 主婦の友 for Showa 14, v.23 issue 1.;
Dimensions: 25" x 37"
Publisher: 主婦の友 (Shufu no tomo);
Other names associated: 永鳥眞雄 (Nagatori Sanao) listed under the coin fortune-telling section;
Summary of Game: Variety of games to play at home, includes small board game in center, games to play as a family at home (including "indoor boat race", "bean-throwing battle", "find the spy", etc - many are war/battle-themed), a fortune-telling chart using coins, and fortune-telling based on zodiac animals;
Other Notes: Came as a new year's bonus with 主婦の友 (Shufu no tomo) Showa 14, v.23 issue 1.;
Dimensions: 25" x 37"
Publisher: 博文館 (Hakubunkan);
Other names associated: 水野年方 (Mizuno Toshikata - art), ukiyoe-e and Nihonga artist;
Summary of Game: Travel-themed sugoroku with landmarks/famous locations around Japan, including Ise Grand Shrine, Tokyo, Niigata, Nikko, Izumo Grand Shrine, and notably Ryūkyū, Taiwan ("Japan's new territory/holding after the great success of the Sino-Japanese War" with an image of locals waving Japanese flags & imperial soldiers), Chishima (the contested Kuril islands), and Bakan (the Treaty of Shimonoseki);
Dimensions: 24.5" x 35"
Publisher: 大阪毎日新聞 (Ōsaka Mainichi Shinbun);
Other names associated: No attributions given;
Summary of Game: 新時代教育遊戯 (Shin-jidai kyōiku yūgi - a new-era educational game) (subtitle on upper-right of board). This large format color Japanese world map doubles as a 'Sugoroku' gameboard and was issued by the Osaka Mainichi Shinbun newspaper as a 1930 'New Year's Supplement', a special reward to its readers. The stylized map game has players explore every part of the globe by either airplane or Zeppelin airship. adorned with their flags. All major cities are labelled and connected by flight routes, while images of famous aircraft, such as Charles Lindbergh's 'Spirit of St. Louis' (the first plane to cross the Atlantic in 1927) and the German Zeppelin airships, shown crossing the seas. The margins feature photographic images associated with different parts of the world, including buildings, archeological sites, animals, or people in local clothing. In the lower right corner, the map features the directions for playing. 'The Easiest Way', as Interpreted by The David Rumsey Map Collection: "Departing from Osaka [1] and moving to all the places in order of 2, 3, 4, you then return to Tokyo [52]. the player who reaches there first is the winner. "throw the dice and proceed as many places as the number you cast..." In the upper right, text informs players of distances between locations, with basic geographic facts. The legend, toward the bottom of the map oval, shows 5 types of red lines & 1 square: 1. well-known large aircraft route (refers to Zeppelin, seen center of map) 2. first-class limited time route 3. liner air route 4. air route already mastered/controlled/conquered 5. planned route. main localities [red square inside black square]." References: David Rusmey Map Collection: 7926.000.
Other Notes: Came as new year's bonus with 大阪毎日新聞 (Osaka Mainichi newspaper), v.1 no. 6755;
Dimensions: 107 x 77 cm
Sources: dealer description provided by Daša Pahor, Ph.D., & Alexander Johnson, Ph.D.
Publisher: 伊勢辰 (Isetatsu)
Other namesassociated: none given.
Summary of game: This sugoroku depicts various forms of Japanese paper and papermaking techniques. The red column gives several types of paper, including tanzaku, chiyogami, hōshogami, minogami, ganpishi, torinokogami, fusumagami, and Asakusagami. The starting square depicts two female papermakers at work. The winning square depicts the Seven Gods of Fortune. This sugoroku is considerably smaller by genre standards.
Other Notes: This game board uses an alternative rendering of the term sugoroku. It is rendered as 寿語六, while more typically the term appears as 双六.
Dimensions: 38 x 25 cm.
Publisher: ナゴヤ玩具 (Nagoya Omocha)
No other names present on item.
39cm x 54cm
This collection documents Summers' career as an economist. It provides a sample of her professional activities, particularly her research on urban economics, education and economics, and the local economy in Philadelphia.
The collection also documents her familial ties to other prominent economists, such as her husband Robert Summers, her brother Kenneth J. Arrow, and her brother-in-law (via Robert) Paul A. Samuelson.
Includes reprint of article written by Kenneth Arrow.
Includes copies of newspaper clippings on the economy in Philadelphia.
Includes a citation from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and an honorary doctorate from Hunter College.
Includes copies of newspaper and other clippings referring to Anita Summers and her work.
Includes a copy of Summers's CV.
Reprint of article written by Summers.
Includes family photos of Summers's brother, Kenneth Arrow, and copies of speeches given by Summers in memory of Arrow.
Includes family photographs, copies of talks given by Sameulson, and brief correspondence with Samuelson (Summers's brother-in-law).
Includes copy of an article written by Summers.
Includes copy of briefing paper by Summers.
Includes copy of article written by Summers.
Includes copy of speech on the history of Mathematica, Inc. given by Summers in her capacity as Chair of Board of Directors.
Includes notesbook from classes Summers took with Jacob Viner at the University of Chicago.
Includes a draft paper by Summers.
Includes copy of paper written by Summers.
Includes copy of paper written by Summers.
Includes copy of book edited by Summers.
The Walter Lee Sutton Papers span the period 1811 to 1947 with the bulk dating from 1883 to 1939. Three generations of the interrelated Anderson, Danforth, Sutton, and Wynn families are represented in the collection. While the collection primarily focuses on Sutton, many of the earlier papers relate to his wife's family, the Wynns and Danforths, her paternal and maternal relatives respectively.
The majority of the collection consists of courtship letters between Walter Sutton and Harriet (Hattie) L. Wynn (1883-1886), and ledgers and daybooks of the general merchandising businesses Heard and Sutton and W. L. Sutton. Therefore, the major strengths of the collection include its delineation of courtship customs in the 1880s and its depiction over a thirty-five period of a small general merchandising firm. While the correspondence spans the period 1811 to 1936, there are very few letters that date between 1814 and 1830, thereby leaving several years virtually uncovered in the collection.
The general merchandising businesses of Heard and Sutton and W. L. Sutton sold a variety of items including farm implements, wagons, buggies, hardware, groceries, dynamite, oil, gas, clothing, and dry goods. Because of the time period covered by these accounting records, one can readily see the transition from “horse and buggy days” to the increasing influence of the automobile. Besides business records, the account books also contain a few domestic accounting records for the Sutton family. Regular customers include members of the Anderson, Sutton, and Heard families. In some there are details about employees, including the number of days they have worked or days missed. Other volumes include an estimate of the amount of lumber sold, the amount of hay cut, or which fields were used for cotton picking.
Sutton's cashbook, 1907-1909, not only delineates the cash received and paid out, but also identifies several products Sutton sold. Some of these entries also include names of companies or persons from whom he received products. While there are separate account books for ice (1909 June-1910 Oct.) and cotton ginning (1908 Oct.-Feb. 1912), ice and cotton ginning accounts are also included in some of the other W. L. Sutton Company ledger and daybooks for other years.
The daybooks commonly itemize lists of goods received. Volume 17 includes a list of bank deposits for the years 1922 to 1927, while in later years 1932 to 1939, bank deposits are typically recorded in the daybooks for the period covered by the daybooks. Also in volume 17, for the years 1923 and 1924, deposits are listed for merchandisers' accounts.
In one instance, the ledger for the W. L. Sutton Company had been used earlier for another purpose. Volume 34 contains a list of debts and credits for merchandisers' accounts for the period January 1, 1936 to March 31, 1937, while at the front of the volume there are records for the Danburg Baptist Church Women's Missionary Society, 1910 to 1921.
Volume 37, “Cotton Accounting Book” (1920-1927) includes Sutton's accounting records for his work as a cotton merchant. The accounting records indicate that Sutton shipped cotton to various companies including: Barnett and Company, Athens, Ga.; Georgia Cotton Growers Co-op Association; Rowland Company, Athens, Ga.; Washington Warehouse Company, Washington, Ga.; and George W. Wright, Augusta, Ga.
Loose materials, chiefly business receipts, were laid into several accounting books. Included are receipts from merchandisers who provided goods to the W. L. Sutton Company and from various warehouses and companies where cotton was shipped. There is also a contract for ice between W. L. Sutton and Pope Manufacturing Company indicating that Pope will sell ice to the W. L. Sutton Company.
Other Sutton accounting records indicate that he sold lumber, kept accounts for the Dansburg School District Board of Education, maintained records for the buying and use of livestock, and kept a record of personal expenses.
Additional financial records include a blacksmith account book kept by Samuel Danforth (1836-1838) and one for a boarding house in Washington, Ga. maintained by Harriet Brown Danforth (1857-1860). Promissory notes and a statement of receipts and disbursements for the estates of Samuel K. Wynn (Hattie's father) and Walter L. Sutton are among the other financial papers.
Among the earliest letters is a series that begins during the War of 1812 and continues to 1814 between George Reab in New York and others concerning his military service. (Reab married Almira S. Brown in 1816 and is a great aunt of Hattie Wynn.) Letters concern whether Reab could be asked to bear arms against the British again since he had been held as a prisoner of war by them and had later been released on parole. Reab stated that he should not be asked to bear arms, invoking the French parole d'honneur as the reason, which is a pledge or oath under which a prisoner of war is released with the understanding that he will not again bear arms until exchanged. It is unclear from the correspondence whether Reab was successful. By April 1813 he had been appointed 3rd lieutenant in the United States 13th Infantry Regiment and by 1816 he had retired from military service. The collection contains a list of officers, including George Reab, Jr. in the 13th Infantry Regiment of the United States Army, which is dated July 31, 1812.
Correspondence from Almira B. Reab during the 1840s to family and friends in New York and Vermont describe how she adjusted to life in the south. Originally from New York, she lived with her sister Harriet B. Danforth and her family in Danburg, Ga. at the time these letters were written.
The collection contains three diaries, one kept by Harriet Brown Danforth and her daughter Emma. Harriet's entries (1858, Jan. 3-1859, Nov. 30) primarily denote when she attended church and in some instances the Biblical scriptures which were read, while Emma's entries (1860? Aug. 26-Dec. 13) concern teaching school. The other two diaries were kept by Walter (1885, Aug. 15-Dec. 23). Several entries relate to Hattie Sutton, while others concern the “liquor issue.” Miscellaneous financial information is found in them as well.
Other items in the collection include minutes and bylaws of debating societies, 1853-1855, including the Pine Grove Polemic Society, Philomathian Society, and the Sandtown (Sandtown was formerly known as Hyde) Polemic Society; an undated handwritten arithmetic book; miscellaneous poetry (1816, 1846 and undated); school notes; minutes of the Willis A. Sutton P.T.A. in Danburg, Ga.; Walter Sutton's Sunday School superintendent record book for 1891; obituaries for various Sutton and Wynn family members; several printed graduation exercise programs from Danburg High School; other miscellaneous writings; and a few photographs.
Papers in the collection indicate that Walter Sutton was having financial difficulties in the late 1890s and early 1900s. In 1897 and later in the 1920s, he was reminded by his creditors that he had outstanding debts. Legal papers from the 1930s also indicate he was suffering from monetary adversities. A petition filed by the American Agricultural Chemical Society for non-payment of debts (1934, Jan. 12) was apparently paid off later that year by selling some of Sutton's land. The agricultural depression during this period was probably a factor in his economic downturn.
Includes one diary maintained by Harriet T. Danforth (1858 Jan.3-1859 Nov. 30?) and her daughter Emma Danforth Wynn (1860? Aug. 26-Dec. 13), and two of Walter Sutton's. Sutton's notations include financial information.
Chiefly personal letters from members of the Danforth, Wynn, and Sutton families, primarily containing news about family members, friends, and social activities. A series of letters from 1812 to 1814 concern George Reab, Jr. The bulk of the correspondence (1883-1886) is courtship letters between Walter L. Sutton and Hattie L. Wynn before their marriage in 1886.
Contracts, bonds, indentures, and deeds primarily relating to members of the Wynn and Danforth families. Papers dating about 1926 to 1936 pertain chiefly to to Walter L. Sutton.
Account books, including ledgers, daybooks, and a cashbook; personal and business receipts; and promissory notes. The W. L. Sutton Company ledgers and daybooks spanning the years 1907 to 1939 comprise the bulk of the financial papers (40 volumes). There are also three volumes containing records for the Heard and Sutton Company in which Sutton was a partner with his brother-in-law Thomas V. Heard. Each of the 43 Heard and Sutton and W. L. Sutton Company account books has been arbitrarily numbered. Therefore volume numbers given below refer to those numbers. Loose materials laid into these volumes have been removed and placed in folders.
There are four miscellaneous account books, 1884-1919, in which Sutton maintained a variety of financial data for different products. For example, one of these which reads “Lumber Book, 1915” on the outside also contains accounting records for other products. Some of these account books include information pertaining to both business and personal expenses.
The series includes Samuel Danforth's ledger (1836-1838), one maintained by Harriet Brown Danforth (1857-1860), and one pertaining to the estate of Samuel K. Wynn (1907)
The unbound financial papers, with the exception of the laid in materials from the W. L. Sutton Company account books, have been placed in chronological order at the beginning of the Financial Papers series. The account books that do not relate to Heard and Sutton and the W. L. Sutton Company are filed next. The Heard and Sutton and W. L. Sutton Company account books that will fit into boxes have been arranged primarily in chronological order. Loose papers from several of these volumes have been placed in folders next to the boxed account books. The volumes which would not fit into boxes are located at the end of the boxed papers.
A handwritten arithmetic book, debating society minutes and bylaws, poetry, school notes, minutes of the Willis A. Sutton P.T.A. in Danburg, Ga. (part of this volume also contains the receipts and disbursements to the W. L. Sutton estate), W. L. Sutton's Sunday school superintendent record book, and a few obituaries of Sutton family members.
Chiefly closing exercise programs for Danburg High School. Includes information relating to events at Shorter College, Rome, Ga., and a pocket size almanac.
This collection contains family, personal, literary, and business correspondence of Louis Augustin Thomas Taveau (1790-ca. 1857), planter; of his wife, Martha Caroline (Swinton) Ball Taveau (d. 1847); of their son, Augustin Louis Taveau (1828-1886), planter and author; of the latter's wife, Delphine (Sprague) Taveau (1832-ca. 1909); and of relatives and friends.
Papers prior to 1829 consist of a copy of the will of William Swinton made in 1741 and letters between the Swinton and Girardeau families recording Charleston events, the marriage settlement of Martha Caroline (Swinton) Ball and Louis Augustin Thomas Taveau, and a copy of the will of Caroline Olivia (Ball) Laurens, daughter of Martha Caroline (Swinton) Ball Taveau by her first marriage. Beginning in June 1829, and continuing for more than a year, the collection contains letters to Martha Caroline (Swinton) Ball Taveau from her husband, Louis Augustin Thomas Taveau, while he was in France endeavoring to settle his father's estate.
In 1838 the papers begin to center around Augustin Louis Taveau (1828-1886), while in school at Mt. Zion Academy, Winnsboro, South Carolina and while later studying law and dabbling in poetry while living in or near Charleston, South Carolina and touring Europe from 1852 to 1854. From 1855 until 1860, the papers contain correspondence with the publisher of Taveau's book of poems, The Magic Word and Other Poems (Boston, 1855), published under the pseudonym of 'Alton,' correspondence with the Sprague family in an effort to obtain the remainder of Delphine (Sprague) Taveau's patrimony, papers relative to a mortgage on Oaks Plantation held by Robert Hume, letters relative to the failure of Simons Brothers in Charleston in 1857 and the consequent loss of Oaks Plantation, letters of Taveau describing a trip to New Orleans (Louisiana), with his slaves and their sale, letters of Taveau to his wife describing various plantations in Mississippi and Louisiana, and a series of letters in 1860 to and from Taveau, Ralph Elliott, and Clifford Simons regarding a supposedly slighting remark involving Taveau's credit.
Late in 1861 Taveau settled on a farm near Abbeville, South Carolina, but soon afterwards joined the Confederate Army. His career in the army continued until 1865. Letters to his wife during the war period, include Taveau's accounts of his efforts as a soldier, descriptions of Charleston during the war, copy of a letter evidently intended for a newspaper, protesting that gentlemen of birth and education could get no commissions in the army while sons of tinkers could; accounts of his duties as guard at the "SubTreasury" in Charleston; papers relating to an effort to permit Delphine (Sprague) Taveau and her three children to sail for Europe in December, 1864; and oaths of allegiance and passports issued to Taveau and his wife and children, March 3, 1865, for going to Boston, Massachusetts.
Immediately after the war, the papers contain letters and copies of letters published in the New York Tribune by Taveau under the title of A Voice from South Carolina, stating that former Southern leaders could not be trusted and condemning them for having allowed conscription. Included also are drafts of letters from Taveau to Horace Greeley and William Aiken; letters relative to Taveau's efforts to get the position of collector of the customs at Charleston; accounts of an interview of Taveau with Greeley and with President Andrew Johnson; letter of June 25, 1865, describing conditions in Charleston and Columbia, South Carolina; a copy of a petition signed by Henry L. Benbow, A. R. Chisholm, William Gregg, and Taveau begging President Johnson to appoint a provisional governor for South Carolina; several letters to and from William Aiken; and letters written by Taveau to his wife in the autumn of 1865 from various points in Virginia including areas near Richmond, Alexandria, and Warrenton, where he had gone in search of a farm.
Taveau and his family finally settled in 1866 on a farm near Chaptico in St. Mary's County, Maryland. From 1866 until 1881, the correspondence is concerned with efforts to obtain patents and money for developing a revolving harrow and a steam plow invented by Taveau; efforts to obtain money for meeting the annual interest on the sum owed for the farm near Chaptico; and accounts of Taveau's literary activities. There are letters and papers bearing on Taveau's efforts to interest the Ames Plow Company, as well as manufacturers of farm machinery in Dayton, Ohio, in his inventions and drawings and circulars relative to the inventions. From 1878 until Taveau's death, his papers contain manuscripts of his poems and correspondence with many leading publishing houses regarding the publication of Montezuma (published in New York in 1883 and again in 1931). Thereafter much of his correspondence consists of letters of thanks from various relatives, friends, and well-known literary figures for copies of Montezuma sent them by Taveau; and letters to newspapers and magazines submitting his poems and usually followed by letters of rejection.
Throughout the collection there are many letters from the mother and sisters of Delphine (Sprague) Taveau, usually in French. Letters of her brothers, however, were generally in English. Among the correspondents are William Aiken, Oliver Wendell Holmes, James Johnston Pettigrew, William Gilmore Simms, Joseph Smith, and John R. Thompson. Also included are some Unpublished Letters of John R. Thompson and Augustin Louis Taveau, William and Mary College Quarterly, XVI (April 1936), 206-221; Letters of Georgia Editors and a Correspondent, Georgia Historical Quarterly, XXIII (June, 1939), [170-176.]
This collection consists of personal papers; prison and legal materials; post-prison materials; organizational papers; business flyers; community and campaign ephemera; creative works and writings by Taylor; correspondence; and news clippings.
Taylor's Personal Papers consist of items like his birth certificate, school diplomas, and certificates. These are the only materials in the collection that date from his childhood and youth. The Prison and Legal Materials Series includes items such as police reports and accounts of Taylor's burglary in 1967, San Quentin Inmate Advisory Council certificates, and grades from his classes at the prison's school. Though this is a small series, it offers insight into Taylor's activities while at the San Quentin and Folsom prisons from 1968-1973.
Post-Prison Materials include information about Taylor's activities following parole in 1973. His work for the Thresholds program is documented through letters of thanks from Oakland officials and school districts, as well as booklets about the program itself. Other materials include items from Taylor's post-prison job search, such as his work for KDIA radio. Later materials offer insight into Taylor's passions following his parole. There are several flyers and other promotional material for Taylor's record store, Oldies But Goodies, as well as documentation of a business loan. The series also documents the political scene of San Francisco in the 1970s, including rosters and candidate lists, materials from the Black Book business directory, and flyers from Taylor's run for the Oakland Community Action Agency's administrative board. This series also has the only portion of the collection dealing with Taylor's life post-1981; travel documents suggest that he was at least visiting the Caribbean in 1999-2000. Finally, there are some miscellaneous materials in this series, including flyers, leaflets, and other general materials that document life in the San Francisco area but do not relate specifically to Taylor's activities.
Materials in the Organizational Papers derive from the Sisters of Motivation, started by Taylor while in prison, and Community Concern for Prisoners, which he appears to have founded after his release from jail. This series includes sign-up sheets, letters of support from public officials and community members, and general information about the organizations. It also contains flyers and bulletins from the CCP's various events, including one with Maya Angelou and other prominent San Francisco artists and writers.
Taylor's Writings and Creative Works include a wide range of materials, beginning with poems and songs and ending with political reflections and essays on black culture. Common themes are the oppression that he faced in prison, the beauty of black women, and the struggle of African Americans for justice. Some of these materials were published as letters to the editor or as poems in black newspapers; others were simply compiled by Taylor into booklets.
The Correspondence Series comprises the largest part of the collection. The original order, based on the writer and recipient of the letter, has been retained. Most of the correspondence dates from Taylor's time in prison from 1968-1973, but there are letters from both before and after. The outgoing correspondence from his time in prison is divided into four parts. The first is Taylor's general correspondence with family, friends, community organizations, politicians, and potential employers. The other three groups consist of Taylor's letters to three girlfriends: Barbara Cheatem, Carolyn Kitson, and Alice/Betty Jo (her full name is not clear).
The incoming correspondence makes up the majority of the Correspondence series. Incoming letters are divided into: general correspondence; the Black Scholar organization; Bill and Ella Carter; Barbara Cheatem; Patricia Dickens; family members (including his parents and his children); Doris Johnson; Carlyn Kitson; his lawyers; public officials; Verdia Rhone; Allyna Robinson; Dorothy Rodgers; Jesse and Dottie Taylor (Taylor's sister and brother-in-law); Marie Taylor (Taylor's wife); and Joni Wetzcher. The "General" incoming file includes materials about Taylor's job search, his parole hearings, requests for help in getting divorced, and other materials about his health and well-being in prison. Topics of note in the letters from his lawyers and public officials include references to Taylor's protest against censorship of black newspapers and the invasion of prisoner privacy in the mail screening procedures, especially at Folsom Prison. The majority of women writing to Taylor pen pals from the Sisters of Motivation program.
The collection is rounded out by the News Clippings Series, most of which dates from Taylor's post-prison life. Some of the clippings are of Taylor's published letters to the editor or his poems; several are general black culture and society articles that do not appear to relate specifically to Taylor. The remainder of the clippings are coverage of the Stinky Rapist case, both from mainstream and black newspapers.
Acquired as part of the Human Rights Archive at Duke University.
Includes forms and materials from the prison, such as Taylor's grade reports and San Quentin Inmate Advisory Council certificates, as well as police reports and accounts of the burglary that resulted in his being sent to prison in 1968.
Contains letters and program materials about the Thresholds juvenile delinquency program that Taylor worked for following parole. Also includes some job search materials; business flyers from his music store, Oldies But Goodies; and materials from his interest in political and community activism.
Includes sign-in sheets, membership rosters, and other materials from the Sisters of Motivation and the Community Concern for Prisoners organization. Taylor claims to have founded both programs and appears to have worked for them for a while following parole.
Materials in the correspondence series discuss all facets of Walter Taylor's life while in prison. It has been divided into incoming and outgoing correspondence, and then further divided by either subject or correspondent. Outgoing correspondence consists of carbon copies of letters. Incoming correspondence is a much larger sub-series. Correspondents are largely friends, girlfriends, and family members of Taylor. Subjects covered by these letters include Taylor's children and other family, activities by both parties, and Taylor's health. Several of the correspondents write of intimate feelings for Taylor, and he reciprocates in his outgoing letters. Many of the relationships appeared to have ended once he left prison.
Accession (2009-0194) (1200 items; 4 lin. ft.; dated 2006-2009) includes marketing plans, sample advertisements and mailings, and launch details for a variety of Ford, Lincoln, Mercury, and Cadillac vehicles between 2006 and 2008.
Accession (2009-0194) (1200 items; 4 lin. ft.; dated 2006-2009) includes marketing plans, sample advertisements and mailings, and launch details for a variety of Ford, Lincoln, Mercury, and Cadillac vehicles between 2006 and 2008.
Personal, business and political correspondence and other papers, concerning Telfair's mercantile interests in Savannah, his legal work, the Revolution in Georgia, Georgia patriots, planting in Georgia, especially rice and tobacco, the Creek Indians in the 1780s and 1790s, slaveholding and economic conditions in Georgia, land speculation and settlement, the establishment of the federal government, politics during the 1790s, Telfair's administration as governor, and American trade with Great Britain. The bulk of the material is for the period 1771-1807. Includes scattered letters from many Georgia patriots and politicians including Abraham Baldwin, Joseph Clay, Sr., Seaborn Jones, Jr., and others.
Collection includes materials from the abortion debate of the 1990s, ranging from an Army of God handbook to the NARAL state-by-state law review. Some articles were written by Tepe, but most are third-party scholarly journals, mainstream publications, or medical reports on the physical, mental, and emotional effects of abortion.
Accession (2009-0180) (1.2 lin. ft.; 900 items; dated 1992-2001) includes materials from the abortion debate of the 1990s, ranging in scope from an Army of God handbook to the NARAL state-by-state abortion law review. Some articles were written by Tepe, but most are third-party scholarly journals, mainstream publications, or medical reports on the physical, mental, and emotional effects of abortion.
This collection consists principally of the apparently complete business papers and records, 1850-1863, of James Thomas, Jr. (1806-1882), one of the largest of antebellum tobacco manufacturers. In addition to an extensive business correspondence, numerous orders for tobacco from Maine, Massachusetts, Louisiana, Georgia, the Netherlands, England, and Australia are included, as well as prices current bulletins from firms throughout the world. The collection not only gives a detailed history of Thomas's enterprises, but affords much information on the tobacco industry in general and on other phases of the economic life of Virginia in the 1850s. Some of Thomas's private correspondence is also in the collection, including an occasional letter from such men as J. L. M. Curry and George Frederick Holmes. Some information is given on Thomas's aid to Basil Manly in his work with the Virginia Baptist Seminary (later the Univesity of Richmond), and on his financial assistance, which made it possible for the institution to remain open after the Civil War.
This collection houses the papers of William Tilghman (1756-1824), lawyer and chief justice of the supreme court of Pennsylvania. They relate chiefly to his law practice in Maryland, 1783-1793, and to his service in the Maryland general assembly, 1788-1793, and include legal papers dealing with litigation, land sales, the collection of debts, notes, the settlement of estates, and other legal matters. Included are deeds, indentures, wills, estate records, court records, and other legal papers relating chiefly to Cecil, Kent, and Queen Anne counties, a roster, 1818-1819, of the citizens of Charles County, scattered papers pertaining to the Church of England in Maryland, occasional references to personal matters, and legal and business papers concerning the family, including papers dealing with loan transactions and with the settlement of the estate of William Tilghman.
The collection also has scattered papers of Tilghman's father, James Tilghman, a lawyer, several bills and accounts of St. John's College, Annapolis, Maryland, and Charlotte Hall School, Charlotte Hall, Maryland, petitions and acts relating to Tilghman's career in the general assembly chiefly dealing with the settlement of local affairs, including the disposal of reserved lands, an evaluation of land in various counties, and an estimate of the cost of building a turnpike between Baltimore, Maryland, and Washington, D. C., and other papers dealing with legal and business matters.
The volumes are a digest, 1747-1760, of cases at law in which James Tilghman was an attorney, a System of Law concerning Estates by Richard Tilghman IV, legal notes kept by William Tilghman as a young man, and dockets of William Tilghman in the Kent County court for the March 1794 term.
The collection consists of genealogical information, correspondence, photographs, diaries, notebooks, and a manuscript autobiography relating to the Townsend family of Felchville, Vermont. The bulk of the correspondence between a large group of family members falls between 1830 and 1939; topics include family matters and spiritualism. One group of letters and a diary were written by a Union soldier, Francis Torrey Townsend, and relate to his experiences in Mississippi and Tennessee as a soldier with Company K, 13th Iowa Infantry. Other materials concern Bessie Meachum's teaching experiences with African-American children at the Beach Institute, Savannah, Ga., at the Lincoln Normal School, Marion, Ala., and at the Rio Grande Industrial School in Albuquerque, N.M.; some of this work was done through the American Missionary Association of the Congregational Church. Some photographs also depict Tougaloo College in Miss., and Le Moyne College in Tenn. Other volumes include the early 20th century diaries of Torrey Townsend and his autobiography; an 1870 diary of Elisa Townsend; a 1892 diary of Mary Meachum; and several diaries and notebooks of Bessie Meachum.
Merchants' accounts, including daybooks, 1803-1806, and a record of cotton storage, 1825-1827, of William Trahern; and daybooks, 1806-1822, and an index of James Trahern.
.Admittance, matriculation, and "Order of Lecture" cards are from a number of medical students from 1811-1880 in the University of Pennsylvania, Jefferson Medical College, Long Island College Hospital (Brooklyn, N.Y.), Harvard University Medical School, Philadelphia School of Anatomy, New Hampshire Medical Institution, Berkshire Medical Institution, and St. Bartholomew's Hospital (London, England). They contain the autographs of the most eminent professors of the day: i.e., Samuel Gross, Franklin Bache, Benjamin Rush, Austin Flint, Samuel Jackson, S. Weir Mitchell, J. K. Mitchell, Charles D. and James A Meigs, John Barclay Biddle, et al. The St. Bartholomew's Hospital card is signed by Ludford Harvey, John P. Vicent, and John Abernethy, the latter (1764-1831) being an eminent English surgeon and founder of the Medical School of St Bartholomew's. The "Order of Lecture" cards from Jefferson Medical College and the University of Pennsylvania list curricula, faculty and their residences, schedules of lectures and texts.
Admittance cards, 1850-1853, are for courses at the Jefferson Medical School in Philadelphia. They include two matriculation cards for William D. Watson of Chatham County, N. C., dated Nov., 1850, and Oct., 1852, and an examination card Oct., 1852-1853, which is signed by Dr. S. Weir Mitchell as professor of Anatomy, Surgery and Physiology. Dr. Watson returned to Chatham County after his graduation. His house was destroyed during the Civil War. The portion of his medical library saved and stored in a neighboring attic eventually was placed in the historical Collection of the library of the University of Pennsylvania Medical School.
A note (ANS) witten on the letterhead of the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.
Letter (ALS) informs recipient that Apostoli will send a recent published thesis on his electrical treatment of fibromata.
This signed document is a record of lectures attended at the Konigliche Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universitat, Berlin.
Letter (ALS). Writes about botanical specimens and his activities at West Point Military Academy.
Holograph, signed. Deed of land purchase. Witnessed by Solomon Tracy and Benajah Bushnell. Acknowledged by Richard Bushnell, Justice of the Peace.
Letter (ALS). Requests of Mr. Little, a bookdealer, the account against the Western College of Physicians and Surgeons for various medical journals.
6 letters (ALS). Writes to direct the handling of botanical and zoological specimens collected during a scientific expedition to India and America, made by Behn and Danish scientists on the warship "Galathea". Two letters give an account of the controversy connected to his appointment to the Leopold-Charles' Academy in Dresden.
2 letters (ALS), a printed calling card, and a photo of an newspaper column containing biographical information. In one letter, Blackwell writes to William Robert Prince regarding his work in horticulture.
Letter (ALS) to a colleague about a patient, the husband of a Madame Serac. Includes transcription.
Most of the material relates to the leasing of property by Bland-Sutton, in particular correspondence with his solicitor, Edward John Quintas Maggs, regarding a case against Bland-Sutton, brought by a Mrs. Heath, regarding a sublet property. Other material relates to the alteration of his surname from Sutton to Bland-Sutton.
Letter (ALS) referring to various financial matters.
Letter (ALS) regarding a case of sudden death immediately following and apparently caused by aspiration of the chest witnessed by McMurtry at the Charity Hospital of New Orleans in 1873 or 1874.
3 letters (ALS). Breschet places a subscription to Cuvier's work on fishes with a M. Lerrault. In a letter to Breschet, J. Cruveilhier expresses discontent with his situation in Montpellier.
Letter (ALS). As Director of the New York State Lunatic Asylum, Brigham writes with news about the affairs of and events at the Asylum.
2 documents, signed, appointing Henry Adams as Coroner of Norfolk County and John Rollins as Division Inspector of the Second Division of the Militia. Both documents are also signed by Alden Bradford, as Secretary of the Commonwealth.
A collection of letters (ALS) from Brown, including a letter from Brown's grandfather, the Rev. John Brown; photostats, including one of the first page of the first edition of Brown's "Horae subsecivae"; and holograph notes in an anonymous hand.
Letter (ALS) to H.S. Scott in the course of his inquiry into the "state of Public Vaccination in London."
This typed transcript copy of a letter from Bumgarner to Davison, made for Mrs. Trent, was removed from the "Bataan" copy of Davison's "Compleat Pediatrician", a volume in the Historical Collection, call number "II Davison". The letter relates that Bumgarner made much use of the book during the WWII campaign in the Pacific.
Letter (ALS) to his editor or publisher, asking for paper to finish his autobiography.
Letter (ALS). Prescribes a treatment for a gynecological patient. Includes transcription and translation.
5 letters (ALS). Includes letters to J. Forbes Royle, comparing East Indian and American caoutchouc (rubber); to John Ashburton Thompson, remarking upon the "power of coca to remove bodily fatigue"; and to Ernest Hart, disparaging the antivivisection movement.
2 notes (ANS), including a note to a Mr. Darwin.
Holograph document, in an anonymous hand. Certificate of dissoluation signed by all members: Knape, Mursinna, Walter, Hermbstadt, Ribke, Formey, Willdenow, Konen, Grapengiesser, Hecker and Horn.
TLS. Coolidge expresses his interest in Way's involvement with vocational schools for veterans of the World War.
Papers include an ANS attesting that medical student Louis de Charbonnel attended Cruveilhier's course during spring 1839, and an ALS prescribing a sea water bath treatment for a brain injury.
ALS. Inquiring after Curtis' application for the position of "aurist" to the Duke and Duchess of Cumberland.
ALS. Writes that he is fearful of being removed from his office of Superintendent of Registration on the Boston Sanitary Commission as a consequence of his signing a petition requesting a Board of Health. Asks that Walker speak to Secretary of State Warner or Governor Andrew on his behalf. Gives names of others who support his cause. Encloses a copy of a letter from William B. Calhoun, addressed to Warner, arguing his case.
3 ALS. One letter relates to methods of observing flies. A letter addressed to Jenner Weir discusses sexual selection among birds, the possibility of inherited effects of injury, and the question whether birds construct their nests based on instinct or learning. This letter makes mention of Edward Jenner, George Rolleston and Alfred Russel Wallace.
ANS from Walter B. Cheadle and from William Roberts.
Autograph, signed. Attests that Henriette Vitteur entered service as his cook on that day.
Holograph signed. Typed English translation available. Desault concludes that section of the pubis is not a dangerous operation and that in certain cases it is preferable to the Cesarean section.
This collection consists of assembled and acquired examples of correspondence and poetry written by Dorothea Dix. Some materials date from the 1860s. In one note, dated May 1862, Dix lists recommendations for promotions in the US Army hospital administration. This bears an autograph note, signed by Abraham Lincoln, forwarding the list for consideration to Secretary of War Stanton.
Other letters date from the 1870s and 1880s and relate friends of Dix or to Dix's own care and health, particularly regarding her residency at a State Hospital in Trenton, near Philadelphia. Dix occasionally references her work for mentally ill patients.
The collection also contains two poems; one signed D.L.D. and another attributed to Dix.
A typed transcription of this poem is included in the folder.
Item is a note in Dix's hand with different physician recommendations for staffing medical positions. At the end of her text is a manuscript note: "Sec. of War please give fair and respectful consideration to the within recommendations of Miss Dix. A. Lincoln, May 5, 1862."
Includes a concluding comment from Dix: "What glorious news!!" presumably referring to the surrender of the Confederacy.
Letter signed D.L. Dix regarding a bill from Dr. Kirkbride as well as Mrs. Lanson who "is very insane - and asking advice concerning a Hospital less expensive than that at Phila."
Dix writes to inspire and encourage Price in her pursuit of teaching; letter includes scripture quotations. At the conclusion of the letter, Dix notes that "I am at present something indisposed, but hope to recover strength."
Dix thanks her friend for a sympathy card while she is receiving care for poor health.
Dix thanks Mrs. Page for her letter, and writes about her current poor health and situation as a resident at the State Hospital. She praises her useful nurse: "I think your experience will have realized how very few are to be found who are real nurses - many have acquired by teaching what supplies 'certificates' of ability - but no certificate represents the truly reliable nurse." Dix continues the letter on May 4 with details about her diagnosis: "Ossification of the lining membranes of the arteries." She writes that she feels ill but that her reason was "at no time threatened." A typed transcription of this letter is also included in the folder.
ALS dated 1822, June 5, is a recommendation for Robert T.P. Fiske. An undated ALS to a friend refers to a difficult obstetrics case.
Holograph documents, some are signed by Dodge. Record services rendered to the town of Salisbury and payments received by James R. Dodge.
ALS. Relates the circumstances of Dreys' visit to Paris, namely the death of his sister, widow of Dr. Alphonse Sanson. Informs Blanche of a visit to M. Kaempfen in Paris. Asks Blanche to convey his gratitude to "le Directeur" for granting him leave to attend to the funeral. The letter also bears an ANS, dated 1887. Jan. 22, from E. Blanche, Auteuil, to "confrere et ami", presumably forwarding Dreys' letter to "le Directeur."
ANS. Regretfully declines invitation.
ALS. Recommends a Mr. Dodd to James Buchanan, Esq.
End fragment of an ALS.
Letters from Niels R. Finsen, the 1903 Nobel Prize awardee for Medicine or Physiology. Envelope addressed to Hr. Docent Dr. phil.Schmidt-Nielsen, Lysintituts Laboratorium, Rosenvaenget, [Kobenhaven]. Typescript transcription of the Danish text and English translation.
ALS. Fisher writes of his journal, presumably of the expedition of the H.M.S. Dorothea and Trent in 1818, and of the publication of Parry's account of the same. He writes of a future expedition, aboard the H.M.S. Hecla.
Holograph documents, a few signed. Account statements and receipts of payments for medical services, advice and medicine, rendered to the town of Salisbury by Dr. Henry Fish.
ANS. Asks the addressee to make a house call.
ALS. Correspondence from Jesse Foot and his nephew, Jesse Foot, Jr., who succeeded him in his practice, to the publishers and printers John Nichols (1745-1826) and his son John Bowyer Nichols (1779-1863), relating to the publication of Foot's work. Foot, Jr., informs Nichols of his uncle's death. In a pair of letters Foot inquires into the date of birth of William Johnstone Strathmore.
ALS. Fothergill comments upon a volume sent him by Emanual Mendez da Costa, foreign secretary of the Royal Society of London. Da Costa writes in reply. His letter bears no signature.
ALS relating to financial matters.
Correspondence concerning Louis Ginsberg's bookplate collection, 1958-1968.
ALS. A cordial personal letter.
Mostly ALS. W.D. Alexander writes on Hawaiian history and refers to Goodhue's book. Drs. Fontoynont, Miyajima, Jeanselme, Montizombert, Nemorin and Anpeville write in reply to Goodhue's requests for information on literature on leprosy in their respective countries. M.F. Obregon writes regarding an appointment. Drs. Lie and Hansen of Bergen writes with reference to the Second International Leprosy Congress held in 1909. Among the letters is a typed manuscript, with answers to question on leprosy, signed by an unknown person.
Certificate of admittance as Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons of England.
ALS. A personal letter.
ALS. Enthusiastic reception of Lee's pamphlet on ventilation.
Receipts of payment, miscellaneous notes, and a list of notes due to the estate of Dr. Lee Griggs, dec'd.
2 ALS. Introduces his son, asking for Potts' aid in establishing him as a solicitor. Recommends a water treatment for Mrs. Potts' back complaint.
Document, signed. Authorizes the sale of his stock in the Company of Merchants of Great Britain Trading in the South Seas and other Parts of America.
ALS to Harley. S.W. Moore writes on the physiological chemistry of the brain. Sir Thomas Smith (1833-1909) of King's College, Edinburgh, writes on pharmacology.
ANS to Hart, relating to social engagements and editorial matters, from Samuel Wilks, Alfred Baring Garrod, John Simon, George Burrows, Thomas Lauder Brunton, William Stokes, Thomas Spencer Wells, Henry Thompson, Joseph Fayrer, James Paget and John Russell Reynolds, among others. Oddly, one note is dated 4 Feb. --18.
Holograph document, signed. Payment received of Thomas Walley for twine.
ANS. Informs addressee that she was elected coroner the previous year.
ALS from Howe and a document, signed, in French from P. Flourens, acknowledging receipt of material sent to the Academie des Sciences.
ALS, in French. Humboldt writes to P.H. Azais and Jules Berger de Xivrey on politics, philosophy, his expeditions, ethnology, natural history and the influence and inspiration of French thought. In 1966 Fritz Lange, of the Alexander-von-Humboldt-Kommission, writes to the Duke Medical Center Library regarding the Kommission's project to locate world-wide all correspondence to and from Humboldt.
Holograph documents, signed. Receipts of payments made by the town of Salisbury to Dr. Asahel Humphrey, as well as Drs. M.A. Lee and William Walton.
ALS.
Document, signed. Certificate to practice medicine, issued by the Connecticut State Medical Society to William Hyde, signed by Jeremiah West, James Potter, Simon Wolcott, and Avery Downer.
ALS and two clippings. The first clipping puts forth W.T.G. Morton's claim to the discovery of the anaesthetic properties of ether. In a letter to Joseph Hale Abbot, Jackson remarks bitterly on this public campaign, led by Drs. Bowditch and Bigelow. Jackson counters in the second clipping with his own claim to the discovery, as substantiated by several foreign juries.
ALS. Expresses his desire to obtain a copy of a catalogue for his "Cushingiana". Muses upon the fact that people can think of books in the midst of war.
ALS. Sends vaccine matter and gives detailed instructions on its use.
ALS. Writes that, in his opinion, yellow fever is not contagious, but rather "an epidemical fever, arising from some general cause". He draws upon observations of cases in Philadelphia and in the West Indies.
ALS, TLS, cards and reprints. Correspondence to Kelly from Ernest Watson Cushing; from Benjamin Frantz, on the earliest use of ether and chloroform; from William Halsted, on gynecological surgery; from William W. Keen, on yellow fever; from Fielding H. Garrison, on medical history; from D'Arcy Power; and from H.S. Jennings, on evolution. Sir Alexander Russell Simpson, Evelyn Blantyre Simpson, and James Young Simpson, all relatives of Sir James Young Simpson, relate family news. William H. Welch, friend and colleague, writes on personal and professional matters, including the faculty and staff at the Johns Hopkins Medical School, Osler and the founding of the Medical School, medical ethics, the organization of the military medical services, and World War I.
The two letters seem to have been dictated, taken by Mr. Barth. Correspondents are a Mr. Coombes and a Mr. Burns.
ALS, relating to various social engagements and household arrangements.
ALS. Describes an operation successfully performed on the Archbishop of Paris in 1774.
ANS. Asks addressee to bring his "memoire" to the evening's gathering.
ALS relating to arrangements to lecture in chemistry and a brief biographical sketch.
ANS. Requests a meeting with Bleadnell. On bottom portion of page, Bleadnell notes that he visited Sir James on January 9.
ALS. Sends Mrs. Alston a description of a method for obtaining and purifying nitrous oxide.
ALS, TLS and TL. MacNider writes to Dr. W.P. Kavanagh regarding a terminal case of myocardial infarction. Included is a typescript, unsigned, of a letter to MacNider from Kavanagh.
ALS. Expresses his thanks for help given one of his students.
Circular letter, signed, soliciting contributions for the proposed institution from all towns within the Commonwealth. This examplar is addressed to the town of Leicester and signed by Thomas H. Perkins, Daniel Sargent, Joseph May, Josiah Quincy, Tristram Barnard and Richard Sullivan.
ALS. Refers to Mayo's efforts to secure Davy's appointment as consulting surgeon at Yarmouth.
Letters of recommendation written by McClellan, for William Milnor, Jr., with Prof. Jacob Green; for Robert J. Dodd; and for George R. Morton, with John Eberle, Prof. Smith, B. Rush Rhees and John Baines.
Mitchell corresponds with Oliver Wendell Holmes and Jacob Whitman Bailey regarding his book, On the cryptogamous origin of malarious and epidemic fevers. Papers also include a line drawing, removed from Mitchell's son's copy of Gower's lectures on the diagnosis of diseases of the brain, pub. 1885; a letter of recommendation for Andrew Ellicott Kennedy; and printed sheet music, Oh! Fly to the prairie, with lyrics by Mitchell.
ALS. Writes of his arrival in Germany and of the English military medical service in general.
TLS. Regretfully declines invitation to write an article.
Collection contains two letters and a note written by physician and ethnologist Josiah Clark Nott. The first letter was written from Alabama on October 13, 1839 to a George Poe, Jr. in Summerville; in it, Nott comments on payment for services and asks for a financial favor, reporting that his office has been "burnt out." The second letter, October 11, 1855, reports favorably on a book by Arthur de Gobineau on the inequalities between races (published by Lippincott in 1855), a work that advanced the notion of the superiority of the Aryan race and thus claimed that slavery was a moral and just system. Nott comments that he has hired a "young friend of mine" to translate the French work into English (it was published in 1856), and that it is a "bold, original, and altother a thinking book." The undated note inquires about appropriate attire for an evening engagement.
The two letters were removed from a book by Josia Clark Nott and George R. Gliddon: Types of Mankind; or, Ethnological Researches, Based upon the Ancient Monuments, Paintings, Sculptures, and Crania of Races, and upon Their Natural, Geographical, Philological, and Biblical History... (Philadelphia, Lippincott, Grambo & Co., 1854. This book has been cataloged separately as part of the holdings of the Rubenstein Library's History of Medicine Collection, Duke University Libraries.
ALS. Discusses the state of health of his patient, the Duchess of Newcastle, and his use of the Bath waters in her treatment.
ALS. Accepts the vice presidency of the American Institute of Instruction from Cushing, a Boston merchant and philanthropist.
Church of Saint Peter and Paul, East Harling, Norfolk -- Oxford Castle, Oxford -- Strangers' Hall -- Merton College, Oxford -- Eysingham Gate, Norfolk -- Cancelled Plate.
ALS. Responds to Green's request for the autograph of J.C. Breckinridge. Page served on Breckinridge's staff during the Civil War.
ALS. Paget writes a cordial personal letter to a Dr. Ewens. Sir Frederick Treves writes Paget regarding the Research Defence Society.
ALS. Personal and professional correspondence includes letters from R.N.D. Desgenettes, Jeffries Wyman, John Jeffries, John Collins Warren, James Thacher, Thomas M. Potter, George Hayward, John Witt Randall, Enoch Hale, John White Webster, Jerome van Crowninshield Smith, John D. Fisher, James Jackson and J.B. Whitridge. Papers also include a letter from Parsons to his brother-in-law, Oliver Wendell Holmes.
ALS. Request for student tickets to the college lectures.
Papers include a letter requesting the transfer of a relative; a note on his work on rabies; autograph manuscript notes on a text by Edou. Dumas, which refer to incorrect calculations in Lavoisier's work; and six pages of holograph manuscript notes, corrected by Pasteur, on the proceedings of the Academy of Medicine, Paris, March 19, 1878, which relate to his work on anthrax.
3 ALS. Inquires after mutual friends, among them George Pearson. Offers an account of his travels in eastern Europe, of his efforts to promote vaccination, of his research and experiments, and of the progress of the Napoleonic Wars.
Petition addressed "To his Excellency--The President of the Confederate States of America" from the citizens of Cripple Creek, Wythe County, Va. requesting the exemption of Dr. C.C. Campbell, the family physician for the area, to be exempted, detailed, and left in the area.
ANS. Excuses his absence from a committee meeting.
ALS relating to his interest in and publications on history. A newspaper clipping accompanies letters.
Papers include ALS, a receipt for taxes paid, and a statement of service for Jacques Francois Baron. The fourth item is an English translation of a missing item.
ALS. Recommends Dr. Richard North for a position in the Medical Department of the United States Army.
1 ALS from Pugnet to Benjamin Morel and a short description of Pugnet's life in an anonymous hand.
ALS. William Osler writes about his work on Boerhaave and on The evolution of modern medicine. Fielding H. Garrison writes with instructions on how to obtain a copy of The history of military medicine.
ALS. Ray writes to Rev. Dr. Peabody, perhaps Andrew P. Peabody (1811-1893), of his plans to submit an article on Jarvis' Report, and to booksellers in Paris.
ALS. Retzius writes a letter of recommendation, in Swedish, and to C.F. Quintard, thanking him for the honor of the conferral of a diploma from the Aesculapian Society.
Fragment of a ALS, with signature.
ALS. Asks if papers submitted for contests of the Societe de medecine are returned after the announcements of the awards.
ALS. Declines invitation to become a member of the National League, "Pro-Italia."
Papers consist of three types of material: correspondence, loose manuscript leaves, and ms. notebooks. Correspondence consists of letters written by Sayer, his wife, Sarah A. Sayer, and the Superintendent at the Asylum, John Gray, during Sayer's stay at the Asylum. Loose manuscripts consist of miscellaneous notes, a poem, Sayer's teacher certification, and the school lists of both Sayer and his wife, then Sarah Ann Bennet. Notebooks: "Sketches of life" (a journal, tp., 23 pp., 1842-1859); "A book intended for writings" (notebook of essays and poems, tp., 23 pp., 1837); and an algebra notebook (tp., 85 pp., 1833) with notes on town bonds at the end (3 pp., 1872).
ALS. Asks whether Thacher received a parcel of books and articles sent to him by way of his neighbor.
ALS to an Alexander Wilcocks and an ANS certifying that Jacob Hicks attended his lectures upon anatomy, surgery and midwifery.
ALS. Relates information on a parasite.
Als. Tipped in Duke Medical Center Library Historical Collection copy of her work, "Un cas celebre de melancolie, Lord Byron". Letter accompanies book, both intended for unknown recipient. The letter excuses the "poor quality" of the work, explaining the various circumstances under which the work was written.
2 ALS, regarding an upcoming operation and a social call, and an autograph signature sample.
ALS. Writes of the circumstances of the death of Grier's son in the explosion of The Miami.
ALS from Stopes to Lord Samuel and TL, presumably from Lord Samuel, to Stopes. In this exchange, Lord Samuel declines Stopes' request to review her collection of poems, "We burn", in his upcoming presentation to the English Association.
ANS. Sets a time to meet the next day.
ANS. Requests that addressee communicate information regarding veterinary schools directly to Lieut. Cabanis.
ALS to his nephew, then a student at Phillips Exeter Academy. Throop praises the academic reputation of the school, relates news of a cotton mill fire and reports on the health of various family members.
ALS. Informs Talbot that upon his return to London he will suggest the appointment of a subcommittee to report upon a certain matter.
ALS. A copy of his letter to Miss "Fanny" Clifton, written hours before his departure to the Mediterranean for Naval service, in which he passionately bids her farewell.
ALS. Tyndall inquires after "the character of the instruction" received by the two sons of a deceased acquaintance.
Autograph postcard, signed. A biographical note accompanies card.
ALS. Prescribes a course of treatment for a child patient.
ALS. Recommends a M. Gallet for a position of copy clerk.
ALS. Sends copies of a lecture to a colleague in Baltimore.
ALS. A social letter.
ALS. Reports no great change in the condition of a Miss Andrews and prescribes various medicines.
ALS, including a description of the Siamese twins Chang and Eng, prescriptions and a letter of recommendation, and newspaper clippings of obituary notices.
ALS. Declines an invitation and relates personal news.
ALS. Inquires after a paper submitted for publication.
ALS. Letter of recommendation for Doctor Forester Dexter.
2 ALS. Pertains to the exchange of copies of a book by Wilson. Wilson asks for Hunt's marked copy and offers a fresh copy.
TLS. Asks that the use of the club be extended to J.W. Babcock of Columbia, South Carolina.
This collection (Accession 2009-0276) includes historical documents from several groups in Triangle Community Works!, including ASPYN, RRNGLE, and the Gay and Lesbian Helpline. Materials date from the 1970s to 2008 and include news clippings, newsletters, publicity materials, meeting minutes, organizational records, and administrative files.
The TCW! Series offers a helpful overview of the various programs within Triangle Community Works. Materials about the TCW! organization date from the 1990s through 2007. The TCW! materials include administrative files, such as meeting minutes, agendas, flyers, and publicity. Another notable part of the series is the TCW! financial files, which detail the organization's fiscal operations, including taxes, investments, and bank statements. The remainder of this series consists of press releases, newsletters, and ephemera from various events, such as pride marches. Also included is a binder of materials from Coalition 807, which predated Triangle Community Works! in the early 1990s, and newsletters from OutRight!, another organization within TCW!.
The RRNGLE Resource Library Series (Raleigh Religious Network for Gay and Lesbian Equality) makes up the majority of the Triangle Community Works Records. It consists of research and subject files collected and maintained by RRNGLE. Files are held within a variety of sub-series, including Religious Groups, Media coverage, Gay and Lesbian Organizations, and General subject files on topics from gay marriage to ordination of gay clergy. RRNGLE materials date largely from the late 1980s to the early 1990s, with some materials from the 1970s, but nothing post-1995.
The ASPYN Series (A Safer Place Youth Network) includes materials dating from both before and after the group joined Triange Community Works!. Files predating TCW! include administrative and board materials, such as annual reports and meeting minutes. TCW! era materials include adult volunteer training manuals and policies, information for teenagers interested in joining ASPYN, evaluations by participants in ASPYN meetings and programs, and ASPYN call logs and group facilitator logs from the mid-1990s.
The Helpline Series includes materials ranging from the inception and formation of the Gay and Lesbian Helpline in 1991, through call logs from as recent as 2008. The series consists of administrative files, research articles on gay and lesbian hotlines, meeting minutes and agendas, newsletters and publications, and materials from the merging of the Helpline into the TCW! organization. The majority of the series, however, consists of the logbooks and call logs kept by volunteers tracking the calls received at the Helpline.
The Arlin Turner Papers, 1927-1980, span Turner's entire career as a scholar of American literature, from his undergraduate education at West Texas State University in 1927 to his death in 1980, when he was an instructor at Southwest Texas State University. The Turner Papers are comprised primarily of personal and professional correspondence with scholars and publishers of American literature. The correspondence includes letters, printed matter, reports, and minutes that Turner collected as a member or officer of organizations to which many of these literary scholars belonged. These materials, in addition to the clippings, printed materials and other writings Turner collected, provide insight into the development of the profession of American literary scholarship in the 1920s and 1930s; demonstrate the major concerns, issues, conflicts, and interests of its practitioners over the following four decades; and record research advancements and contributions to scholarship on the literary figures of most interest to Turner. The Turner Papers also document the development of high school, collegiate, and graduate level instruction in American literature through the organizational records and course materials, the latter of which include Turner's personal writings and research notes, subject files he collected, clippings, lecture notes, and other printed materials on various authors or genres of American literature. Finally, this collection provides glimpses into Turner's personal career and scholarly thought through the writings which are included, both those he presented orally as speeches or lectures, or those he published as articles or books. The Turner Papers are organized into five series: Correspondence, Course Materials, Organizations, Printed Material, and Writings and Speeches.
A student of the first generation of American literature scholars in the 1920s, Turner played an important role in the network of scholarly exchange that was vital to the emergence of the discipline in the decades following. Turner kept in contact with numerous colleagues in colleges and universities across the United States and throughout the world, including many former graduate students who later became influential literary scholars and critics themselves. The Correspondence Series, 1930-1980, documents Turner's role in this network of scholarly exchange. The Individuals Subseries, 1930-1980, includes Turner's most voluminous correspondents: American literature specialists and authors Gay Wilson Allen, John Q. Anderson, Louis Budd, Robert Cantwell, James B. Colvert, Eddie Gay Cone, Benjamin Franklin Fisher, Albert Mordell, Norman Holmes Pearson, William Stafford, and Edmund Wilson. The Publications Subseries, 1934-1979, contains portions of Turner's communications with editors, publishers, and presses primarily regarding article reviews or manuscript evaluations of others' work. This subseries also contains some information concerning Turner's own articles, manuscripts, and various published works. Correspondence, brochures, press releases, reports, and contractual information concerning Turner's speaking engagements or attendance at professional meetings is collected in the Conferences, Speeches, and Lectures Subseries, 1961-1978 (bulk 1961-1964). Miscellaneous materials comprised primarily of letters arranged by subject are assembled in the Other Correspondence Subseries, 1948-1979 and undated This subseries also contains research notes, memos, and printed material. These papers document Turner's visiting professor appointments and awards, as well as his interest in topics such as the Duke University Library, the Huntington Library, George W. Cable primary sources, and international scholars of American Literature.
The Course Materials Series, undated, is comprised of information Turner collected to aid in composing classroom lectures, and other teaching materials. He maintained an extensive set of files on American authors, which can be found in the Lecture Notes, By Author Subseries, undated Most files contain a brief biography of the author and list of his major compositions, but may also include copies of their works, a typescript of Turner's lecture on the author, and related materials such as clippings or Turner's handwritten research notes. Turner also collected files on genres of literature, delineated both by region, such as Louisiana or British literature, or by style, such as Short Stories or Recent Fiction. These can be found in the Lecture Notes, By Subject Subseries, undated The Class Files Subseries, undated, contains Turner's teaching materials including syllabi, quizes, and exams. These files pertain to courses Turner taught (or in a few early instances, took) in subjects including American Literature before the Civil War, Post-Civil War Literature, Hawthorne and Melville, American Humor, and Southern Literature. Specific course numbers and titles have been provided wherever possible.
Arlin Turner was an active leader and participant in many of the organizations associated with his profession and interests, which are chronicled in the Organizations Series, 1929-1979 (bulk 1936-1979). These scholarly groups developed policies, conducted studies, and otherwise governed the profession. Thus, Turner's influential positions in most of these associations render his thorough collection of organizational records both valuable and useful. Folders in this series primarily contain correspondence, minutes, memoranda, reports, and printed matter such as newsletters, brochures, and clippings. Most notable is Turner's work with the Modern Language Association (MLA), whose American Literature Section members are primarily responsible for the spread of American Studies programs across the globe. Turner's records also document his work with the South Atlantic Modern Language Association (SAMLA), the American Studies Association (ASA), and the Southeastern American Studies Association (SEASA). This series likewise chronicles Turner's leadership roles in the National Council of Teachers of English (NCTE), the American Council of Learned Societies (ACLS) and the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH).
Turner was also a member of the Committee for American Studies, the advisory group for the Conference Board of Associated Research Councils' (CBC) Committee for International Exchange of Persons (CIEP). The Organizations Series also includes files on the selection of Fulbright Scholars that he collected as a member of that committee. In addition, Turner served as chairman of this committee during the period in which the Loewenberg controversy consumed the CIEP's affairs. When Prof. Bert J. Loewenberg was denied a Fulbright Award in 1959 despite the committee's recommendation, its members threatened to resign in protest against allegations that Loewenberg's past political activity was to blame. Thus, significant amounts of correspondence from fellow committee members Ray Billington, John Hope Franklin, Harvey Wish, and Charles Barker regarding the controversy is found in this series.
Arlin Turner accumulated a significant number of clippings, newsletters, pamphlets, reprints, and publications related to American Literature. These are collected in the Printed Material Series, undated Included in this series are materials from the Educational Testing Service (ETS), memorabilia from Turner's time at the University of Hull in England, literary magazines, and miscellaneous clippings primarily regarding Southern writers (especially North Carolina authors), William Faulkner, and the New Critics (a.k.a. The Fugitives).
The Writings and Speeches Series, 1938-1980 and undated (bulk 1964-1977), contains copies of Turner's significant oral presentations and other written work, both published and unpublished, in addition to some writings of other authors he accumulated. Files from Turner's speaking engagements include both correspondence and typed copies of his presentations. This series also contains unidentified speech notes and writings, in addition to a bound typescript with handwritten edits of Turner's Nathaniel Hawthorne: A biography . Writings about Turner, including obituaries, tributes, his curriculum vita and the like, are also found in the Writings and Speeches Series.
The Correspondence Series has been organized into four subseries: Individuals; Publications; Conferences, Speeches, Lectures; and Other Correspondence. Only the first of these retains Turner's arrangement.
The Individuals Subseries is comprised of correspondence between Turner and other scholars in American literature, students and former students, and editors and publishers. Chief topics in the letters include recent research, manuscript evaluations, speaking engagements and conference attendance, personal updates, and occasional recommendations and peer reviews (SENSITIVE). To preserve original order, this subseries has been maintained as a discrete unit--arranged alphabetically by the correspondent's last name in the same way Turner kept the files. Consequently, there may be significant overlap with other correspondence subseries. For example, correspondence with a publisher may be filed by an editor or publisher's last name in this subseries or by the publication title or the press that produced it in the Publications Subseries.
The Publications Subseries is comprised of Turner's correspondence to publishers, editors, and presses regarding publications. Included are reviews of books for multiple journals, multiple reviews written for single journals, manuscript evaluations for various university presses, and correspondence regarding some of Turner's own publications. Arranged alphabetically by publication title or press name.
Correspondence regarding Turner's speaking engagements and attendance at professional gatherings is collected in the Conferences, Speeches, and Lectures Subseries. This subseries is arranged chronologically.
Miscellaneous files that contain primarily correspondence can be found in the Other Correspondence Subseries. Many of these files relate either to Duke University or to universities at which Turner served as a visiting professor. These are organized by the subject or addressee of the correspondence and arranged alphabetically, with correspondence from international scholars in American literature filed at the end.
The Course Materials Series is divided into three subseries. The first two subseries are comprised of Lecture Notes, arranged by Author and Subject. The last contains Class Files. Only the first of these subseries preserves Turner's original arrangement.
Each folder in the Lecture Notes, By Author Subseries contains the materials on various literary figures that Turner appears to have collected for classroom use. Almost all of these include a brief typed page containing the author's birth and death dates and significant writings. Most are also accompanied by a brief typed biography and summary of the author's contribution to literature. Some folders may also contain copies of an author's works, especially poetry, or newspaper clippings about them, in addition to Turner's personal research. These are arranged alphabetically in the same order that Turner filed them.
The Lecture Notes, By Subject Subseries contain Turner's collected notes or clippings on general subjects in literature, delineated either by geographic region or genre. This subseries also includes files on a few non-American writers (specifically William Shakespeare, John Milton, and Edmund Spenser). The Minor Southern Authors folder, although it contains unfinished notes pages for individual authors, was not originally filed in the Lecture Notes By Author subseries and therefore is filed by subject in this subseries. The miscellaneous materials in Box 13 pertain to the English curriculum at Duke and LSU, especially degree requirements, preliminary exam questions, and stylesheets for term papers and theses at the two universities.
The Class Files Subseries contains Turner's teaching materials for specific classes that he taught, both at Duke and as a visiting professor elsewhere. Also included in this subseries is at least one syllabus on West Texas State letterhead that appears to be from a class in which Turner was enrolled as an undergraduate in 1927. When possible, the course numbers for these classes have been identified; it should be noted that Turner often taught the same course subject under a different number at a different institution. These files primarily contain syllabi, exams, quizes, reading lists, and lecture materials developed for a specific course.
The Organizations Series contains Turner's files on professional and scholarly associations, committees, councils and societies to which he belonged, and, in many cases, led in some capacity. (For a list of Turner's most significant posts, please see the Organizational Service Biography in the Biographical Note above.) Folders in this series primarily contain correspondence, minutes, memoranda, reports, and printed matter such as newsletters, brochures, and clippings. These are arranged alphabetically.
[changed to Council for International Exchange of Scholars (CIES) in 1975.]
The Printed Material Series is comprised of clippings, newsletters, pamphlets, reprints, and publications related to American Literature. This series includes materials from the Educational Testing Service (ETS), memorabilia from Turner's time at the University of Hull in England, literary magazines, and miscellaneous clippings primarily regarding Southern writers (specifically North Carolina authors), William Faulkner, and the New Critics (aka The Fugitives).
The Writings and Speeches Series is comprised primarily of copies of Turner's speeches, articles, and abstracts, as well as correspondence and contractual information regarding them. This series also includes a complete typed manuscript of Turner's Hawthorne biography with handwritten edits. The Writings and Speeches Series also contains two folders of writings about Turner: one folder of materials which Turner himself authored or compiled, including several versions of his curriculum vita and a brief autobiography with transcripts attached, and one folder of materials written by others, including tributes and obituaries. Turner's writings are arranged chronologically at the front of the box, followed by writings by others.
This collection contains memoranda, monthly newsletters, committee papers ranging in date from 1981-1994; freshman guidebooks ranging in date from 1985-1996; and basic documents regarding in-school scholarships. Materials in the collection range in date from 1981-1996.
The records contain materials pertaining to AIESEC, an international student-run organization providing international exchange traineeships for college students. Correspondence makes up the bulk of the records, but they also include chapter meeting notes, recruitment information, and business contact and traineeship information. Materials range in date from 1966-1970.
Contains correspondence, bylaws, membership records, a constitution, a handbook, reports, certificates, and a brief historic profile pertaining to the Beta Eta chapter of the Alpha Kappa Psi business fraternity at Duke University. Materials range in date from 1929 to 1963.
Education and travel records from the Alumni Affairs Office including fliers, correspondence, and memoranda.
Each item listed in this series is a photo album.
Meeting of alumni travel coordinators in the west, sponsored by Stanford; Weekend with alumni and Dean Willimon at The Swag in the NC mountains, 1999; Quebec with fellow university travel coordinators, 2000; Duke Alumni trip to Provence, April 2000
The Duke Amandla Chorus records span 2016-2017 and include images and moving image recordings of various performances, group photographs, lyrics, meeting minutes, a rehearsal schedule, and the Duke Amandla Chorus logo.
The Alpha Phi Omega, Lambda Nu Chapter Records include minutes, reports, correspondence, administrative information, slides, photographs, audio tapes, scrapbooks, and other materials documenting the history of this service fraternity. The first series, Administrative, contains information about the membership, volunteer work, social activities, and alumni of Lambda Nu. The second series, Slides, contains slides of Lambda Nu activities from 1980 to 1997. The next series, Audio Recordings, has one audio cassette of the 1998 Senior Banquet. The fourth series, Composite Photographs, contains photographs of all Lambda Nu Members during most school years between 1986 and 2002. The Scrapbooks series contains photographs, documents, handwritten notes, and other materials assembled by Lambda Nu members. The final series, Oversize Materials, houses oversize scrapbooks.
The Administrative series contains materials used by chapter leaders in their administration of Lambda Nu, including minutes, reports, correspondence, slides, and information on volunteer projects, membership, social activities, alumni, and the history of the chapter. Much of the material was originally housed in binders, and the original arrangement of papers has been retained. Folders are arranged chronologically.
The slides document Lambda Nu volunteer and social activities. See folders 30, 31, and 38 for more slides.
The Audio Recordings series contains one standard audio cassette tape.
The Composite Photographs series contains oversize photographs of Lambda Nu members during a school year. The photographs include the names of the members as well as their positions in the group. They are arranged in chronological order.
The Scrapbooks series contains scrapbooks made by Lambda Nu members to document their volunteer and social activities. They contain photographs, drawings, handwritten notes, typed documents, and other materials. Some scrapbooks have been interleaved with acid-free paper to protect their pages. The books are arranged in chronological order.
The Oversize Materials series contains oversize scrapbooks. The complete list of scrapbooks can be found in the previous series.
Collection contains materials pertaining to the mission and organization of the U.S. Army Office of Ordinance Research, the forerunner of the Army Research Office-Durham (AROD). Materials include summaries of the activities of the Duke/AROD coordination office for the fiscal years 1966, 1969-1971, and a scrapbook dated 1959. The scrapbook contains photographs of Duke officials, Ordnance office chiefs, various dedication events and ceremonies, event guest lists, official luncheons, and RTP exhibit, all from 1959. The materials in the collection span the years 1957-1982.
The Auxiliary Services Reference Collection contains reports, memoranda, publications, schedules, flyers, charts, news clippings and other materials about the operations of Auxiliary Services. This collection was compiled from a variety of sources by the University Archives for use in reference and research.
Entitled "My Life," the scrapbook contains nine sections: My Main Vita, My Books, Professors Blessing Me, My Early Life, My Teaching, My Work to Help Duke University, My Coming Forth for Politics, Some Things I Have Done for Humans, and Pictures. It reflects Professor Barber's work as an educator, author and activist. A substantial portion of the scrapbook contains letters from Barber's former students at Duke. In these letters, the students evaluated Barber's courses in political science. Also included are typescripts of Barber's "What Duke Can Be" and "Duke's Constitution," letters to Barber upon his retirement from Duke and family pictures.
This scrapbook is a xerox copy made by James David Barber in 1996 (includes color scans). The original remains with his family.
The collection includes clippings, press releases, statistics, rosters, programs and press brochures/media guides about the baseball team at Duke University. There are files regarding the freshman (junior varsity) baseball team, The Big Four and ACC Tournaments, the Alumni baseball game played on September 27, 1986, and a compilation of Duke University players that went on to play in the Major Leagues (compiled 1989). The material ranges in date from 1933-ongoing.
The Yearly files contain clippings, press releases, statistics, rosters, and programs about the baseball team at Duke University.
The collection contains essays, articles, clippings, correspondence, reminiscences, and other published and unpublished matter including Bassett's article, Stirring Up the Fires of Race Antipathy (1903); a scrapbook, 1903-1904, kept by Trinity College officials with newspaper clippings documenting national coverage the case received; copies of letters by Theodore Roosevelt to Owen Wister (1906) commenting on the case and on Trinity; manuscripts of My Recollections of the Bassett Trial, by Robert Lee Durham (1936), The Bassett Affair: A Play in Six Acts, by Baird Straughan (1975), and Crisis at Trinity a play by John Merritt (1989); lists of related materials in other collections; various shorter articles and speeches including comments by Richard L. Watson and an address to the Academic Council by Terry Sanford; and materials from the centennial celebration of the Bassett Affair, collected by University Archives staff.
The centennial celebration of the Bassett Affair included a number of events held on the Duke University campus. This folder includes material collected by University Archives staff. It includes an article from the Herald Sun; a five part series of articles published in the Chronicle; a calendar of events; and speakers' notes from Robert Durden and William Chafe, who were part of a panel discussion entitled The Bassett Affair After a Century, sponsored by the History Dept.
The basketball records largely include clippings, statistics, press releases and programs about the Duke men's basketball team. There is some correspondence as well. A lot of the material has been xeroxed. The records range in date from 1906-ongoing.
The collection is arranged into two series: General Material, 1906-2003 and Game and Tournament Programs, 1936-2003. Due to multiple accessions, the boxes are not in sequential order and boxes 43-81 are stored offsite. For general basketball statistics, please refer to the website GoDuke.com
The collection consists of carbon copies of letters Bradway sent to Nixon, and letters, telegrams, and cards from Richard Nixon prior to his 1968 election, during his presidency and subsequent impeachment, and following his resignation in 1974 during his second term in office. Topics in the correspondence include the Vietnam War, political protests, Nixon's coverage in the press, his impeachment trial, and his book. Also included is correspondence between Bradway and President Gerald Ford.
Content discusses Bradway's upcoming retirement.
Bradway's secretary, Rita Leavitt, writes to tell Nixon that Bradway is out of town, and has not received his invitation to a meeting at the Annual Meeting of the American Bar Association. The invitation is included with the letter.
Nixon asks for Bradway's opinion on conservatives and liberals as TV and radio commentators, and his views on the student protests at the University of California, Berkeley.
This letter includes a copy of The Choice in Vietnam which is a speech delivered by Nixon at a meeting of the 87th, 88th, and 89th clubs in New York.
Bradway writes to congratulate Nixon on his election as President of the United States.
As President, Nixon writes to Bradway discussing his stay in the hospital, and his memories of Bradway as a professor at Duke.
Bradway discusses that both he and Nixon received Quaker upbringings, and that he prays for him daily.
Contents include correspondence between Harry Jeffrey and Bradway regarding interviewing Bradway for the Richard Nixon Oral History Project at California State College, Fullerton.
Includes a signed, printed card which discusses appreciation for support of pursuit of peace in Vietnam.
Bradway discusses his thoughts on a recommendation for the Supreme Court.
Includes an invitation to dinner at the White House.
Bradway declines an invitation to the White House and comments on the failure of the news media.
Nixon recalls Bradway and faculty's kindness extended during his three years at Duke Law School, and states he will have Bradway's message to the Class of 1937 copied and sent to each member of the Class.
Content includes a printed telegram requesting Bradway's vote signed by Nixon and paid for by the Committee to Re-elect the President.
Includes a signed, printed card which discusses appreciation for Bradway's message of congratulations. The card is also signed by Pat Nixon.
Bradway suggests having Congress investigate the possible origins of funding for "Peace Demonstrations" of the Vietnam War.
Bradway suggests Nixon explore hiring George W. Kraft, a former Duke student, to ensure he have an honest man work for him.
Nixon wishes Bradway well during his upcoming surgery. Also included is a carbon copy of the letter to Ralph A. Newman.
Includes signed, printed cards thanking Bradway for his support.
Bradway comments on Senator Javits' speech, and the Republican Party's Watergate Affair mistakes.
Includes a Christmas card from the White House.
Bradway writes to Vice President Ford discussing the possibility of Congress, AFL-CIO, or the press as the pressure groups supporting Nixon's impeachment.
Bradway discusses the need for fairness in the impeachment coverage.
Nixon writes to Bradway on the occasion of his eighty-fourth birthday. A photocopy of the original letter is also included.
Newman corresponds with Bradway regarding his upcoming birthday, and communications with Nixon.
Bradway encourages Nixon to "Stay With It," as the Congressional impeachment investigation continues.
Bradway writes to Nixon to thank him for his birthday greeting letter, and also states that "your resignation would be a major catastrophe," and stating he will frame and hang his letter.
Jan Fuller sends a clipping to Bradway regarding a missing Duke University Law School painting of Nixon found hidden in the ceiling of the building.
Includes signed, printed cards thanking Bradway for his confidence and support.
Bradway writes regarding Nixon's television presentation, and discusses confidentiality and the press.
Includes appreciation for Bradway's message and a copy of an article by Dean Burch, "What Nixon Knew, and When, and What He Did: A View."
Bradway discusses his receipt of a letter from Senator Tower, and a copy of his response stating his disappointment with the Republican Party response to the impeachment.
Bradway corresponds with Chesterfield Smith and Louis Potter of the American Bar Association (ABA) suggesting the ABA pursue a professional role in the upcoming impeachment trial.
Includes appreciation for Bradway's message of support, and copy of an article by Dean Burch, "What Nixon Knew, and When, and What He Did: A View."
Robert K. Castetter, Dean of the School of Law responds to a letter from Bradway stating they will send him a copy of remarks made by speakers during the program honoring Bradway.
Bradway writes letters of support and comments that Nixon "will go down in history as one of our finest Presidents," as Nixon officially resigns the presidency on August 8, 1974.
Bradway writes expressing his disappointment in the Republican Party and choosing not to send a contribution.
Bradway writes to "Richard" suggesting that he write books or articles on his side of Watergate Affair.
Bradway has suggestions for the new president regarding the Watergate Affair and the United States Constitution involving the issues of high crimes and misdemeanors, the Supreme Court, and due process of the law.
Wilson writes thanking Bradway for his support of the Republican party.
Bradway has suggestions for Wilson including encouraging Nixon to write a book, and the issues of high crimes and misdemeanors, and the impeachment process.
The Director of Public Information thanks Bradway for his letter on behalf of President Johnson.
Nixon writes to Bradway commenting on his project of writing about the Watergate Affair.
Bradway writes to the editor to offer corrections to a reference to him in the journal.
Bradway writes Nixon he is still thinking of the Watergate Affair, and that the Democrats' version seemed to be "a lot of shadow boxing but has little relation to the actual controversy."
Bradway writes to Korff with comments on his book The Personal Nixon.
Bradway writes to Nixon that he read Rabbi Korff's book. Bradway also writes that press accounts of Nixon left him feeling that he was "witnessing a "lynching" party."
Nixon writes that he is working his book.
Nixon thanks Bradway for his concern over Pat's illness, and gives a health update.
Bradway thanks Ford for supporting his former law student, Nixon, while he faced "what some people would regard as a lynching party."
Ford thanks Bradway for his kind message.
Ford writes to thank Bradway for his support of the Republican National Committee, and includes photographs of himself and Betty Ford.
Bradway writes to Nixon with comments on his television interview with David Frost.
Nixon thanks Bradway for his comments on the interview, and notes he will try to incorporate Bradway's analysis in his book.
Nixon sends Bradway a copy of an article on the powers of the Presidency he as written for publication in The Washington Star.
Nixon sends Bradway an autographed copy of his daughter Julie Nixon's book, "Special People."
Nixon thanks Bradway for his letter regarding the last of the Frost television interviews.
Bradway writes to Nixon to thank him for the autographed copy of his book, and offers his comments. Only the first page of the letter is included.
Nixon writes to Bradway thanking him for his comments on Memoirs, and mentioning memories of Mrs. Bradway forty years earlier.
Includes an advertising letter from Grosset & Dunlap, Inc., offering autographed Deluxe and Presentation Editions of Nixon's book, Memoirs.
The collection includes clippings and photographs regarding the 1955 Hoof'n'Horn production of "Laughing at You," as well as a telegram, Joe College brochure, and LPs of Hoof'n'Horn productions. The collection ranges in date from 1955-1956.
The Duke Chapel Carillon Records were created by the university carillonneur J. Samuel Hammond, and contains records relating to the operations and activities of Duke Chapel carillon and ranges in date from 1929-2022. Materials include administrative records, correspondence, printed recital programs, carillon and carillonneur material, clippings, photographs, and performance recordings.
Includes metal piece 'top coat' on one side.
Includes two metal pieces; one labled Therabond ST200 primer; and one labled Alternative to gloss.
Includes five wooden pieces with various stain samples for the clavier cabinet and batons.
Includes two metal downwire samples.
Includes the John Taylor & Co. Bell Founders & Carillon Builders nameplate from the 1930 keyboard.
Includes policies, correspondence, and Duke-related documents.
Includes dates and music played on the Duke Carillon.
includes correspondence with Sam Hammond
For Hammond, includes note.
Poster features Hammond
Adapted by Sam Hammond.
Adapted by Sam Hammond.
Adapted by Sam Hammond.
Adapted by Sam Hammond.
Adapted by Sam Hammond.
Adapted by Sam Hammond.
For Sam Hammond, with note from the composer.
Correspondence pertain to contracts and records
Includes documentation of other carillons, carillonneurs, conferences, festivals, history, and recitals.
Includes correspondence, programs, articles, certificates, photographs, notes, and articles related to Hammond's retirement and his career as a carillonneur. Most of these materials maintain Hammond's original order and are otherwise arranged in chronological order. General correspondence is arranged in alphabetical order by sender then chronologically.
Hammond cites Ronald Barnes as a foremost American carillonneur, friend, and mentor.
Includes works by Barnes, Handel, and Bach.
Side A: Re-recording of 6 April; Side B: 2nd half-copy of Otis' Crest.
Side A: Songs played at Duke; Side B: Anton Brees Interview and recital.
Includes Carillon #1 in C Major; You Satisfy the Hungry Heart, and Taking of Exams.
The Chamber Arts Society Collection includes programs from many Chamber Arts Society performances from 1990-2016.
Collection includes university administrative records, personal papers, manuscripts, photographs, printed matter, memorabilia, and other material created or received by Dr. Brodie during his his tenure as Chancellor, 1982-1985. Subjects include admissions, the Academic Council, alumni, committees and campaigns, athletics, The Duke Endowment, various university departments, the Medical Center, and Student Affairs.
Collection includes memoranda, correspondence, published materials, reports, printed matter, clippings and other materials generated by the Office of the Chancellor during Pye's two terms as Chancellor (1970-1971 and 1976-1982). There are also correspondence, speeches, printed matter, and subject files collected by Pye from 1968 to 1976 as Dean of the School of Law, Chancellor, and University Counsel.
The first series consists of subject files created during Pye's first tenure as Chancellor, 1970-1971. Subjects include the merger of the Woman's College with Trinity College, an evaluation of the university's relationship with the Army Research Office in Durham, Duke's position on admission standards for student-athletes in the Atlantic Coast Conference, the Summer Transitional Program, international studies, the evaluation of the Navy and Air Force ROTC programs, African-American studies, the Pickets and Protest Policy and student unrest, and regulations pertaining to drug use and other aspects of student life. Administrative officers who communicated with Pye in regard to these matters include James Price, Dean of Undergraduate Education, William Griffith, Dean of Student Affairs, and President Terry Sanford.
The second series consists of subject files created during Pye's second tenure as Chancellor, 1976-1982. As Chancellor, Pye had overall responsibility for planning and budgeting at the university, and the files reflect the retrenchment and long-range planning process that occurred at Duke in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Other subjects include reports on the enrollment of North Carolina students, the admission of African-Americans, A.B. Duke Scholars from the years 1926 to 1981, financial aid and admissions, the Duke University Athletic Association (DUAA), the recruitment and admission of student-athletes, the Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics of the American Council on Education, Title IX of the Education Amendments, affirmative action, planning for the University Center (Bryan University Center), East Campus planning and residential life, the Public Safety department, black affairs, labor relations and unionization, the Nixon Library controversy, the American Dance Festival, the Marine Laboratory, and forestry, nursing, sociology, and education programs.
A subseries of the subject files created during Pye's second tenure as Chancellor, 1976-1982, is related to the Duke University Medical Center. Major subjects include Highland Hospital (Asheville, NC), the School of Nursing, and retrenchment. William G. Anlyan, Vice President for Health Affairs, is the primary correspondent within the series.
A subseries of the subject files created during Pye's second tenure as Chancellor, 1976-1982, contains files regarding various standing and ad hoc committees and files pertaining to planning committees and the University Long-Range Planning Committee. Other committees represented include the Athletic Council, Committee on the Social Implications of Duke's Investment Policies, search committees for a provost and a Vice-Chancellor for Data Processing, and the Undergraduate Faculty Council in the Arts and Sciences (UFCAS) Committee on Financial Aid and Admissions.
A subseries of the subject files created during Pye's second tenure as Chancellor, 1976-1982, consists of files created by staff assistants in the Chancellor's office, chiefly Gail Hagel and Jennifer Hillman. The files consist chiefly of information gathered in relation to long-range planning, including questionnaires, communications with members of the Long-Range Planning Committee, statistical data, and other materials.
The third series, A. Kenneth Pye Papers, 1968-1976, includes typescripts of speeches, correspondence, reports, and other material created during Pye's tenure as Dean of the School of Law, Chancellor, and University Counsel. The papers reflect matters outside of Duke University. The correspondence, spanning 1968 to 1974, includes letter from Pye's former law students and gives details about their careers and lives. Pye's responses are included. The correspondence further reflects Pye's work as an attorney and an educator, as it in part pertains to legal questions and issues. North Carolina Senator Sam Ervin and Chief Justice Warren Burger are among those who consulted with Pye on legal matters. The speeches and addresses, which are dated from 1968 to 1974, were primarily delivered at other institutions and relate to legal education and legal issues, including student demonstrations. Several subject files include reports and materials on university matters, including a public hearing on the ROTC, a 1975 report on teacher education at Duke, and reports from the Durham Urban Observatory, a joint research project between Duke, North Carolina Central University, and the city of Durham.
This series consists of subject files created during Pye's first tenure as Chancellor, 1970-1971. Subjects include the merger of the Woman's College with Trinity College, an evaluation of the university's relationship with the Army Research Office in Durham, Duke's position on admission standards for student-athletes in the Atlantic Coast Conference, the Summer Transitional Program, international studies, the evaluation of the Navy and Air Force ROTC programs, African-American studies, the Pickets and Protest Policy and student unrest, and regulations pertaining to drug use and other aspects of student life. Administrative officers who communicated with Pye in regard to these matters include James Price, Dean of Undergraduate Education, William Griffith, Dean of Student Affairs, and President Terry Sanford.
This series consists of subject files created during Pye's second tenure as Chancellor, 1976-1982. As Chancellor, Pye had overall responsibility for planning and budgeting at the university, and the files reflect the retrenchment and long-range planning process that occurred at Duke in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Other subjects include reports on the enrollment of North Carolina students, the admission of African-Americans, A.B. Duke Scholars from the years 1926 to 1981, financial aid and admissions, the Duke University Athletic Association (DUAA), the recruitment and admission of student-athletes, the Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics of the American Council on Education, Title IX of the Education Amendments, affirmative action, planning for the University Center (Bryan University Center), East Campus planning and residential life, the Public Safety department, black affairs, labor relations and unionization, the Nixon Library controversy, the American Dance Festival, the Marine Laboratory, and forestry, nursing, sociology, and education programs.
This subseries consists of subject files created during Pye's second tenure as Chancellor, 1976-1982, related to the Duke University Medical Center. Major subjects include Highland Hospital (Asheville, NC), the School of Nursing, and retrenchment. William G. Anlyan, Vice President for Health Affairs, is the primary correspondent within the series.
This subseries consists of committee files created during Pye's second tenure as Chancellor, 1976-1982. The files are arranged into two sub-series: files regarding various standing committees and ad hoc committees are followed by files pertaining to planning committees and the University Long-Range Planning Committee. Other committees represented include the Athletic Council, Committee on the Social Implications of Duke's Investment Policies, search committees for a provost and a Vice-Chancellor for Data Processing, and the Undergraduate Faculty Council in the Arts and Sciences (UFCAS) Committee on Financial Aid and Admissions. Information assembled by the Long-Range Planning Committee and it various taskforces was used in two planning documents written by Pye: Planning for the Eighties (1978) and Directions for Progress (1980). Directions for Progress proposed reorganization in the School of Forestry and Environmental Studies and discontinuing the School of Nursing and the Department of Education. Other subjects include financial aid and admissions, instruction in the arts, the Department of Education, residential life, cooperative programs, the marine laboratory, and the Department of Sociology. Major correspondents include Bruce Wardropper, H. Keith H. Brodie, William Bevan, and Jean O'Barr.
This subseries consists of files created during Pye's second tenure as Chancellor, 1976-1982, by staff assistants in the Chancellor's office, chiefly Gail Hagel and Jennifer Hillman. The files consist chiefly of information gathered in relation to long-range planning, including questionnaires, communications with members of the Long-Range Planning Committee, statistical data, and other materials.
This series contains restricted materials from each of Pye's chancellorships. For further information, contact University Archives staff.
This series includes typescripts of speeches, correspondence, reports, and other material created during Pye's tenure as Dean of the School of Law, Chancellor, and University Counsel. The papers reflect matters outside of Duke University. The correspondence, spanning 1968 to 1974, includes letter from Pye's former law students and gives details about their careers and lives. Pye's responses are included. The correspondence further reflects Pye's work as an attorney and an educator, as it in part pertains to legal questions and issues. North Carolina Senator Sam Ervin and Chief Justice Warren Burger are among those who consulted with Pye on legal matters. The speeches and addresses, which are dated from 1968 to 1974, were primarily delivered at other institutions and relate to legal education and legal issues, including student demonstrations. Several subject files include reports and materials on university matters, including a public hearing on the ROTC, a 1975 report on teacher education at Duke, and reports from the Durham Urban Observatory, a joint research project between Duke, North Carolina Central University, and the city of Durham.
This series contains oversize materials from each of Pye's chancellorships. Included are a Duke University Athletic Association Long Range Plan (1971), Duke University Hospital Long Range Forecast, and information regarding budgets, tuition, and fees. For further information, contact University Archives staff.
The Chapel Reference Collection was compiled from a variety of sources by the University Archives for use in reference and research. It includes subject files ordered alphabetically on various subjects relating to the Chapel. Some prominent subjects include: administrative history of the Chapel; the organs (Aeolian, Brombaugh, Flentrop); calendar of events; carillon; Chapel choir; sarcophagi; special services/events; weddings; and windows.
Service of Worship program 1965 January 31, program for Birtish Organ Musical recital on 25th anniversary of accession of Queen Elizabeth II 1977 February 6, Service of Worship program honoring the 50th anniversary of the death of William Preston Few 1990 October 14. Collected and donated by Sam Hammond.
The collection includes correspondence pertaining to Chase's publications and research on Edgar Allan Poe's works, Chase's research notes, typescripts of Poe-related correspondence found in libraries, clippings, postcards and other memorabilia relating to Edgar Allan Poe. It also includes photographs, mostly commercial prints, of people and places related to Poe's life, including London scenes, the Poe cottage and Seagate Castle. Correspondence files are extremely brittle. Among the correspondents are Edmund Gosse, John Erskine and J. E. Spingarn. There is also an unidentified handwritten travel diary dated September 1858, which was found in the Woman's College Library, and believed to have been left by Chase. It details travels in New England and China. Paperclips damaging the files were replaced, as were disintegrating folders. The collection ranges in date from 1807-1941.
The collection contains programs, transcripts or copies of commencement and baccalaureate addresses, invitations, announcements, honorary degree citations, instructions to participants, news clippings, lists of speakers, Bibles, sample diplomas, and other materials pertaining to commencement ceremonies. From 1850 through 1927, one folder typically holds materials from several years' ceremonies, whereas in more recent years, one's year's ceremony may take more than one folder.
The collection contains materials pertaining to the Counseling Center and its predecessor, the Bureau of Testing and Guidance, including printed informational materials, correspondence, reports, memoranda, financial statements, test booklets, draft proposals for an M.A. in guidance at Duke, and other materials. Included are annual reports, 1950-1969; summaries of placement test scores by school and major field, 1951-1956; annual budgets, 1951/52 to 1969/70; staff research reports, 1952 to 1966 concerning placement test performance and predictive value; and brochures and clippings describing the Center and its services. The correspondence and memoranda concern planning for a proposed graduate program in counselor training (1950 to 1953) and guidance training institute (1958), placement tests (1962), the organizational name change (1964), and practices at other institutions (1959-1960). Final annual budgets (oversize) are also included, covering the years 1954 to 1970, as well as a ten year placement testing study covering the years 1951-1960 (oversize).
The records of the Duke University/University of North Carolina Center for Research on Women contain correspondence, reports, grant documents, audiotapes, a videotape, and other materials relating to the Center for Research on Women. Major subjects include women's studies curriculum development and research, pay equity, and the relationships between race, class, and gender. Materials range in date from 1982 to 1992.
Some of the materials in this collection are not immediately accessible because they require further processing before use. Please contact the University Archives before visiting to use this collection.
Includes "Dialogues Between Black and White Women: Women and Work" by Donna Benson and Rhonda Zingraff, Nov. 9, 1985, and "What's Fair: Pay Equity/Comparable Worth in North Carolina" by Claudia Wayne, Julianne Malveaux, and Jean Ross, May 8, 1987.
Includes "Making a Difference" Conference recordings.
The Dance Program Performance Films were recorded across three different formats: VHS cassettes, mini-DV cassettes, and DVDs. Most of the Dance Program's performances from 1990-2012 are represented. Recurring dance performances include Choreolab performances, November and December dances, Composition Class final examinations, and Ark dances. Choreolab 2005: 1. Rosetta Rhythms; 2. When the Time Comes; 3. Man in a Room Gambling; 4. Jam/More Responsive Reading; 5. The Run Down; 6. Seruba
November Dances 2004: 1. Studies; 2. Anna's Themes; 3. Chaconne; 4. Fugitive Visions; 5. The Dreamer; 6. Rainbow Etude; 7. Strength and Beauty
Ark Dances 2004: 1. Untitled; 2. Taiwanese Aboriginal Dance; 3. Almost a Tango (Excerpts); 4. Em Esaeler; 5. Dance of Chivalry; 6. A Choreographic Offering (Excerpts); 7. Spring Shower; 8. Mballax-Kat [1] (um-belecks-kat)
Choreolab 2004: 1. …Almost a Tango; 2. Common Ground; 3. Element: Unknown; 4. Suite from a Choreographic Offering
November Dances 2003: 1. Arambh; 2. Trans-; 3. Dun Dun Ba; 4. Hip Hop: It's Still Here; 5. Memory/Discovery; 6. More to the Point
Ark Dances 2003: 1. Let's Get Loud; 2. Tell Him; 3. A Cappella; 4. Variation from Paquita; 5. Ophidiaphobia; 6. By the Grace of Others; 7. Fever; 8. Manjani
Choreolab 2003: 1. Hi-Fi Fantasies; 2. Take Five; 3. Pop Life; 4. Vigil
November Dances 2002: 1. Two By Fours; 2. Enraptured/Entangled; 3. Felt and Woven; 4. Gran Chimin; 5. Suite from a Choreographic Offering; 6. Manduka Shabdham; 7. Jalidon
November Dances 2002: 1. Two By Fours; 2. Enraptured/Entangled; 3. Felt and Woven; 4. Gran Chimin; 5. Suite from a Choreographic Offering; 6. Manduka Shabdham; 7. Jalidon
Ark Dances 2002: 1. Coyote Ugly; 2. Layers; 3. Tunhwang Flying Angel Dance; 4. Shadow Boxer; 5. Are We There Yet?; 6. Don't Cloud Up On Me; 7. Valley; 8. Half Circles; 9. Celtic Vision; 10. The Planets; 11. Ku-ku/Sunu Kick
Choreolab 2002: 1. Valley; 2. Layers; 3. Cloud 9; 4. Out of the Box; 5. The Planets
December Dances 2001: 1. Hootenanny; 2. O Brother Sun, and Sister Moon; 3. Orphidiaphobia; 4. Womantree; 5. Kathak; 6. Palladio; 7. Culebra
Chorelab 2001: 1. Fling; 2. Aztec Pony; 3. Man in a Room Gambling; 4. Siga (Go On); 5. Tropical Fantasy in Five Parts; 6. Astral Flight
December Dances 2000: 1. Valley - Excerpt; 2. Looking Forward; 3. The Purple Waltzes; 4. Interspersion; 5. Middle of the Road; 6. Kunda
Choreolab 2000: 1. Running to Stand Still; 2. Layers; 3. Guide Me, O Thou Great Jehovah; 4. A Man in a Room Gambling; 5. The Roommate; 6. Drum Debt; 7. Valley
December Dances 1999: 1. Concerto Grosso; 2. Grief Divided; 3. Solima Sene Fari; 4. Hidin' in Haydn; 5. Calling; 6. Alder Meadows
Ark Dances 1999: 1. Rhythms in Blue; 2. Untitled; 3. Wan Hua Ying Chun; 4. Romanza; 5. Refining Fire; 6. Ballet Variations; 7. Phase Three; 8. Mwamba II
December Dances 1998: 1. 21 Questions; 2. Spire; 3. Extinct; 4. Option II; 5. Tap Dance; 6. Alleluia For…Whatever; 7. Meditation on Violence #1; 8. Origins Rising/Holding Souls
Ark Dances 1998 (April 17): 1. Class; 2. Reflection; 3. Auf Wiedersehen; 4. Parts; 5. Zippers' Suite; 6. Experiment in Texture; 7. The Cuddle Duet; 8. Sorrow's Sojourn; 9. Feather Fan Dance; 10. Blues Related
December Dances 1997: 1. Danse Macabre; 2. The Return; 3. Memory and Discovery; 4. Palladio (Balletomania); 5. Ridicolezza and Other "R" Words; 6. Jitterbird Remembers; 7. Tangos; 8. Aide; 9. Allegro Misterioso, Trio Estatico; 10. Tulongo
Ark Dances Spring 1997: 1. Divertissement --> Coppelia, Act 3; 2. Swing Low; 3. Right Hand; 4. Stillshot (with 13 Gestures); 5. Elusive Union; 6. Three Hand Reel; 7. Passages
December Dances 1996: 1. Letting Go; 2. Hubba Bubba and Other Dances; 3. Sevillanas; 4. The Whispers of Angels; 5. Test; 6. Louise's Ballet; 7. Lamban: A Tribute to the Legend of Sunjata, the Lion of Mali
December Dances 1995: 1. Sinfonia; 2. Sevillanas; 3. Miscarried Time Abort Bamboo; 4. Autumn; 5. Headless Woman; 6. Some Caucasian Spirituals; 7. Homage to Anna Sokolow; 8. Chrysalis; 9. Redemption
Ark Dances 1995: 1. Morning Glory; 2. Chinka Chinka Chinka; 3. A Brief History of Tap; 4. Gershwin Medley; 5. American Graffiti; 6. Two Works in Progress; 7. Fairy Tale; 8. Drunk and Gourd
Fall Concert 1994: 1. Give Thanks; 2. I Blink and She's Gone; 3. Summer Seven; 4. Thread; 5. Mr. Brown; 6. Odylic Source; 7. Changeling; 8. "Land of Snow" from the Nutcracker
Ark Dances Fall 1994: 1. Shan-Dong Flutter Fan Dance; 2. Mea Culpa; 3. Meat; 4. Hip Hop Junkies; 5. Five Ways to Whoopee; 6. Spiritual; 7. Ziellos Tap; 8. Innocent
Program included in slipcase. Clay Taliaferro and Friends/Dancing: 1. Old Dancing, Arranged; 2. The Purple Waltzes; 3. Plateau…The Words; 4. Shhh!; 5. From Whence, Whereto; 6. I Shall Mingle
Faculty/Student Concert 1993: 1. Egun-Gun Masquerade; 2. Someone Is…Standing in the Doorway, Leaving With Us; 3. Unaccompanied; 4. Improvography; 5. Mohawk; 6. Romanza; 7. Untitled; 8. Chaos
1992 Fall Faculty/Student Concert: 1. Thread; 2. The Awakening; 3. Slave to Love or Fashion?; 4. Romanza; 5. Inwardly Mobile; 6. Heartstrings; 7. And We Dance the Earth's Dance
Ark Dances Fall 1993: 1. The Commuters; 2. Tea Leaves Harvest Dance; 3. Scarlet Fever; 4. Shake It Like a White Girl; 5. Unity; 6. Hot and Bothered; 7. Spirit Love; 8. Painting a Dream; 9. Chaos
Ark Dances Spring 1992: 1. Avatara…The Last; 2. Time One; 3. Will You Be There; 4. Untitled; 5. That's No Way Out; 6. Fabulous Monsters
"Doin' Things Together": 1. Odyssey; 2. Luminis; 3. Sweet Suite; 4. Shhhh!; 5. Remaining Fire
Ark Dances 1991: 1. Wind Fall (excerpt); 2. Moving Forward; 3. Ethnicolor; 4. Trios Intwined; 5. Earth Spirit; 6. Painted Pictures; 7. February Sea; 8. Live Dangerously
Lorca Dances: 1. En La Noche; 2. Arbole; 3. Shadow Patterns; 4. Ancient Voices of Children
Julia Wray Concert: 1. Mesa; 2. Periods of Grace; 3. Fifth French Suite; 4. Buckdancing; 5. Field and Stream; 6. Wedding Cake; 7. Common Law; 8. Fossfates
Ark Dances Fall 1990: 1. Isicathulo; 2. Madame, Oui, Monsieur; 3. Mesa; 4. Jammin; 5. Fossfates; 6. Reflections…Sometimes We Forget; 7. Dependence; 8. Transformation; 9. Quotations
Ark Dances Spring 1990: 1. Madame, Oui, Monsieur; 2. Vigil; 3. Workin' on a Buildin'; 4. Womansong; 5. Harsher Landscapes, Quest
The Desarrolla Records span 2014-2016 and include founding documents, organization information, records of the marketing and networking teams, and brand image materials. Founding documents consist of iterations of the organization's constitution and by-laws. Organizational records include organizational charts, a vision and recruitment video, and a year-end presentation describing progress made. Records of the marketing and networking teams include marketing metrics, survey results, and materials used to promote the organization and its mission.
The Duke Human Rights Center at Franklin Humanities Institute records include promotional and other event-related materials, project information, grant materials, and other administrative materials. Included are posters, DVDs, correspondence, and other materials. Most materials are publicly-distributed promotional materials.
Collection consists of a scrapbook and several issues of the Belvoir Castle pertaining to the amateur athletic career of Dick Groat with inclusive dates 1948-1955. The scrapbook contains clippings pertaining to Groat's career at Duke University while a two-sport student-athlete in baseball and basketball, although a majority of the material pertains to his basketball career. The clippings document athletic contests including baseball and basketball tournaments, the numerous awards and honors received by Groat while at Duke, and his social life. Issues of the Belvoir Castle, the newsletter of the Engineer Center of the United States Army located at Fort Belvoir, Virginia, contain articles pertaining to Groat's two years in several armed service baseball and basketball leagues while in the United States Army from 1953-1955. The actual creator of the collection is unknown.
A report and presentation slide regarding social and gender relations among undergraduates. The report was released in April 2014.
Contains negatives and some matching prints of University-related subjects, including people (i.e. faculty, trustees, students, etc.), buildings, construction, schools and departments. While dates range from 1855-1995, it is necessary to note that the majority of the negatives are copy negatives, rather than originals. While a good number of original negatives are included in this collection, the user should be aware that some of the corresponding dates refer to when the copy negative was made, not when the original picture was taken. In most cases, it is noted on the negative sleeve if the negative is a copy or an original. Furthermore, users should be aware that some negatives are of published material. For instance, several pages from the Chanticleer and the Chronicle were photographed and the negatives were kept. On some of the sleeves, users will find notes presumably made by the photographer regarding print quality.
An attempt was made to bring a cohesiveness to the negative collection for easier patron and staff access. The negatives are arranged in the following series: Subject Negatives, General Negatives, Building Negatives, Construction Negatives, Faculty Negatives, Medical Center Negatives, and Numbered Negatives. The Numbered Negatives are copy negatives pulled from the larger University Archives Photograph Collection. Any future additions to the negative collection will follow the numbering format.
The collection includes photographs taken for the creation of the book Duke Chapel Illuminated as well as some materials related to the production of the book. The majority of the photographs are of the stained glass windows, statues, and carvings in, and views of the chapel; also included are photographs of events in and around the chapel, as well as images from the Duke University Archives of people, events, and scenes from the history of the Chapel. A small amount of material related to the layout and production of the book Duke Chapel Illuminated is also included.
The book The Architecture of Duke University by William Blackburn, 1939, was used to number and identify the stained glass windows, as well as provide information on the location of statues and carvings. A digital copy of this book is available via HathiTrust.
This series includes images of the stained glass windows in the Chapel. Images are grouped by window, and arranged numerically by window number as assigned and described in the Architecture of Duke University, Appendix A.
Melchizedek, David, St. Longinus, Gideon, Hezekiah, Joshua, Judas Maccabeus, Jehoshaphat
Windows behind preacher's desk, St. Mark (winged lion), St. Lucas (winged ox)
This series includes images of statues and carvings in and just outside the Chapel's entrance as well as views and objects in the Chapel's interior. Images are primarily grouped according to the subject's location within the Chapel, as described in the Architecture of Duke University and Duke Chapel Illuminated.
Above: Thomas Coke/Edward Coke; Inside: Preacher of the Bible (Girolamo Savonarola), Religious Reformer (Martin Luther), Translator of the Bible (John Wycliffe), Statesman of the South (Thomas Jefferson), Soldier of the South (Robert E. Lee), Poet of the South (Edward Lanier), Knowledge, Piety
St. Francis of Assisi, St. Gregory the Great, St. George, St. Augustine of Hippo, Paul, John the Baptist
Features the three sculptured panels in limewood of Jesus with the Doctors in the Temple, Jesus before Pilate, and the Entombment as well as two carved angels between the panels.
Abraham, David, Samuel, Moses, Peter, Matthew, Thomas, Simon, Matthias, Bartholomew, James the Less, Philip, Andrew, Thaddeus, James the Great, John
Panoramic images
Includes panoramic image of nave with Flentrop
Includes images of organ, carillon, choir, and musicians, among others.
This series includes images of events, exterior images of the Chapel, and photographic copies of images from the Duke University Archives used in Duke Chapel Illuminated.
Panoramic images
Most slides include page number in book on which they appear.
This series includes materials used in the production of the book Duke Chapel Illuminated, including manila envelopes used to hold the photographs selected for inclusion in the book, arranged by final page number in the book, as well as scanned versions of images, some of which were used in the book.
Manila envelopes for each page spread of final book, labeled with images, including frame numbers, to be used. Some include filenames for scanned images.
The collection includes many of the photographs taken by Duke Photography in the course of its work as the official photographic service of Duke University. Photographs include images of administrators, students, faculty, staff, visiting speakers, artists, and celebrities, campus and classroom scenes, athletic events, buildings and construction on campus, theatrical and other performances, members of the Board of Trustees, parties and events, and many other subjects.
Photographs include both analog and digital formats; the majority of the analog photographs are on 35-mm, 120-mm, and 4x5 film, although other photographic mediums may be present. Most jobs include all or most of the original images and may or may not indicate which images were selected for use. Some indication of which images were selected for use were written on the original storage envelopes, which have not been kept as part of the collection. These notes may be indicated in the scope and contents note for that job number. Also included are notes when it is known there are missing items, instances of mislabeled photographs, and any additional materials included with the job number.
Job numbers may contain images from multiple events. Multiple job numbers are listed in the finding aid but only the first listing of each job contains a physical description of what is included in the folder. Some folders may contain multiple job numbers. It may not be indicated which images are from which event.
The description for images included in this finding aid was provided by Duke Photography in the course of their record-keeping and is incomplete. Broad subject categories divised by Duke Photography were often applied to jobs, but this categorization was not always applied or consistent. The vast majority of job numbers have some description indicating the topic, event, or individuals featured, but does not include identification of every individual, event, or date. Some job numbers do not have any description provided.
 Slip of paper, order sheet
Letter from Dr. Robert Erickson with photocopies of contact sheets with notes, order sheet
Paper with note asking for prints
Note with dimensions
Page from publication featuring image from camera roll
Four negatives from a different group of photos
Memo page
Sticky note asking for prints
Note with frame numbers
Note with numbers
Note, "Dept of Economics Soc-Sci"
Sticky note with photo numbers
Developing notes
Note with frame numbers and print sizes
Negative sleeve possibly mislabeled, 0342-88
Print request
Markers on negative sleeve pointing to exposures
Two print requests
Includes negatives for unknown job number
Note indicating correct images
Note requesting photos
Note pointing to frame 34, print request
Note requesting prints
Note requesting printPaper framing photo number four
Negative from another sleeve
Note requesting prints
Note requesting prints
Note, two contact prints, one does not match negatives
Two color negatives, one black and white copy
Note requesting images
Conference packet
Note with print request, email, address
Note referencing job number 2412-78, requesting printsTwo notesTwo negatives from other sleeves
Note requesting print of circled image on contact sheet
Note requesting print
Note with frame numbers
Note requesting frame number and print
Two negatives from another sleeve, commencement
Two notes, print prices, and requests
Note with subject's names
Two notes: one on tissue paper, one note card requesting prints; printing notes
Note requesting prints from job numbers 1063-88 and 1064-88
Contact sheet contains images from job numbers: 1079-88, 1080-88
Note requesting printsOne negative has sticky substance stuck to itFolder contains job numbers 1129-88 to 1135-88
Folder contains job numbers 1141-88 to 1144-88
Folder contains job numbers 1145-88 to 1152-88
Folder contains job numbers 1204-88 to 1207-88Folder contains job numbers 1228-88 to 1230-88
Folder contains job numbers 1233-88 to 1235-88
Folder contains job numbers 1239-88 to 1240-88
Folder contains job numbers 1248-88 to 1250-88
Note requesting prints
Folder contains job numbers 1259-88 to 1262-88
Folder contains job numbers 1276-88 to 1277-88
Folder contains job numbers 1279-88 to 1280-88
Folder contains job numbers 1281-88 to 1285-88
Folder contains job numbers 1286-88 to 1287-88
Folder contains job numbers 1291-88 to 1292-88Folder contains job numbers 1300-88 to 1302-88
Negatives are mix of all subjects contained in folder
Folder contains job numbers 1303-88 to 1304-88
Note with size request
Folder contains job numbers 1323-88 to 1341-88
Folder contains job numbers 1353-88 to 1359-88
Folder contains job numbers 1360-88 to 1367-88
Folder contains job numbers 1369-88 to 1370-88
Folder contains job numbers 1371-88 to 1375-88, note with arrow indicating frame to print
Folder contains job numbers 1381-88 to 1382-88
Note with frame numbers
Folder contains job numbers 1383-88 to 1387-88
Folder contains job numbers 1389-88 to 1392-88
Folder contains job numbers 1402-88 to 1403-88
Folder contains job numbers 1404-88 to 1406-88
Folder contains job numbers 1407-88 to 1408-88
Note requesting prints with sizes
Folder contains job numbers 1411-88 to 1413-88
Folder contains job numbers 1415-88 to 1417-88
Negative description: mix of Thomas Center construction and welcome luncheon
Folder contains job numbers 1423-88 to 1424-88
Folder contains job numbers 1426-88 to 1428-88
Folder contains job numbers 1430-88 to 1435-88
Folder contains job numbers 1436-88 to 1439-88
Folder contains job numbers 1442-88 to 1444-88
Folder contains job numbers 1445-88 to 1446-88
Folder contains job numbers 1455-88 to 1466-88
Folder contains job numbers 1473-88 to 1475-88
Folder contains job numbers 1477-88 to 1482-88
Folder contains job numbers 1483-88 to 1485-88
Folder contains job numbers 1490-88 to 1491-88
Folder contains job numbers 1495-88 to 1496-88
Folder contains job numbers 1499-88 to 1500-88
Folder contains job numbers 1501-88 to 1503-88
Folder contains job numbers 1507-88 to 1508-88
Folder contains job numbers 1509-88 to 1510-88
Folder contains job numbers 1511-88 to 1512-88
Folder contains job numbers 1515-88 to 1517-88, order formFolder contains job numbers 1521-88 to 1523-88
Folder contains job numbers 1526-88 to 1533-88
Urgent note
Folder contains job numbers 1542-88 to 1544-88
Folder contains job numbers 1545-88 to 1546-88
Folder contains job numbers 1554-88 to 1555-88
Two negatives from a different sleeve
Folder contains job numbers 1561-88 to 1562-88
Folder contains job numbers 1565-88 to 1566-88
Folder contains job numbers 1567-88 to 1568-88
Folder contains job numbers 1571-88 to 1573-88, Order form
Folder contains job numbers 1574-88 to 1575-88
Folder contains job numbers 1579-88 to 1583-88
Folder contains job numbers 1586-88 to 1588-88
Folder contains job numbers 1595-88 to 1596-88
Folder contains job numbers 1598-88 to 1600-88
Folder contains job numbers 1601-88 to 1609-88
Folder contains job numbers 1614-88 to 1615-88Folder contains job numbers 1618-88 to 1621-88
Folder contains job numbers 1623-88 to 1626-88
Folder contains job numbers 1629-88 to 1631-88
Folder contains job numbers 1634-88 to 1635-88
Folder contains job numbers 1642-88 to 1643-88
Folder contains job numbers 1644-88 to 1645-88
Folder contains job numbers 1646-88 to 1647-88
Folder contains job numbers 1651-88 to 1654-88
Folder contains job numbers 1655-88 to 1656-88
Folder contains job numbers 1658-88 to 1660-88
Folder contains job numbers 1661-88 to 1664-88
Folder contains job numbers 1665-88 to 1668-88
Folder contains job numbers 1669-88 to 1671-88
Folder contains job numbers 1674-88 to 1676-88
Folder contains job numbers 1686-88 to 1688-88
Folder contains job numbers 1692-88 to 1693-88
Folder contains job numbers 1695-88 to 1696-88
Folder contains job numbers 1715-88 to 1716-88
Folder contains job numbers 1723-88 to 1724-88
Folder contains job numbers 1726-88 to 1727-88
Folder contains job numbers 1729-88 to 1730-88
Folder contains job numbers 1731-88 to 1732-88
Folder contains job numbers 1735-88 to 1744-88
Folder contains job numbers 1746-88 to 1747-88
Folder contains job numbers 1755-88 to 1756-88
Folder contains job numbers 1757-88 to 1758-88
Folder contains job numbers 1759-88 to 1760-88
Folder contains job numbers 1761-88 to 1763-88Folder contains job numbers 1767-88 to 1768-88
Folder contains job numbers 1769-88 to 1771-88
Folder contains job numbers 1772-88 to 1777-88
Folder contains job numbers 1778-88 to 1781-88
Folder contains job numbers 1782-88 to 1784-88
Folder contains job numbers 1787-88 to 1788-88
Folder contains job numbers 1790-88 to 1791-88
Folder contains job numbers 1793-88 to 1794-88
Negative in Printfile sleeve listed on job number 1702-88, single negative listed as 1795-88
Folder contains job numbers 1799-88 to 1802-88
Folder contains job numbers 1803-88 to 1805-88
Folder contains job numbers 1807-88 to 1808-88
Folder contains job numbers 1813-88 to 1815-88
Folder contains job numbers 1825-88 to 1826-88
Folder contains job numbers 1833-88 to 1835-88
Folder contains job numbers 1844-88 to 1845-88
Folder contains job numbers 1850-88 to 1852-88
Folder contains job numbers 1858-88 to 1859-88
Folder contains job numbers 1861-88 to 1864-88
Folder contains job numbers 1865-88 to 1870-88
Folder contains job numbers 1875-88 to 1881-88
Folder contains job numbers 1884-88 to 1885-88
Folder contains job numbers 1886-88 to 1892-88
Folder contains job numbers 1894-88 to 1896-88
Folder contains job numbers 1897-88 to 1899-88
Folder contains job numbers 1904-88 to 1909-88
Folder contains job numbers 1910-88 to 1912-88
Folder contains job numbers 1917-88 to 1918-88
Folder contains job numbers 1920-88 to 1921-88, negatives listed for job number 1902 and 1903
Folder contains job numbers 1922-88 to 1923-88
Folder contains job numbers 1924-88 to 1925-88
Folder contains job numbers 1926-88 to 1927-88
Folder contains job numbers 1928-88 to 1929-88
Folder contains job numbers 1940-88 to 1943-88
Folder contains job numbers 1945-88 to 1946-88
Folder contains job numbers 1949-88 to 1950-88
Folder contains job numbers 0010-89 to 0011-89
Folder contains job numbers 0013-89 to 0015-89
Folder contains job numbers 0016-89 to 0017-89
Folder contains job numbers 0018-89 to 0019-89
Folder contains job numbers 0022-89 to 0034-89
Folder contains job numbers 0035-89 to 0037-89
Folder contains job numbers 0041-89 to 0044-89, Letter with descriptions and print requests
Folder contains job numbers 0053-89 to 0062-89
Folder contains job numbers 0063-89 to 0064-89
Folder contains job numbers 0068-89 to 0069-89
Note with size requests
Two order forms
Folder contains job numbers 0086-89 to 0087-89
Order form
Folder contains job numbers 0094-89 to 0095-89
Folder contains job numbers 0098-89 to 0099-89
Note from contact sheet number 0099-89
Folder contains job numbers 0104-89 to 0105-89
Folder contains job numbers 0111-89 to 0112-89Folder contains job numbers 0123-89 to 0131-89Folder contains job numbers 0137-89 to 0140-89
Folder contains job numbers 0142-89 to 0143-89
Folder contains job numbers 0144-89 to 0145-89Folder contains job numbers 0147-89 to 0148-89, Letter with event schedule and corresponding photo numbers
Folder contains job numbers 0151-89 to 0152-89, note pointing to frame number 11
Folder contains job numbers 0153-89 to 0154-89
Folder contains job numbers 0156-89 to 0157-89
Folder contains job numbers 0161-89 to 0162-89
Folder contains job numbers 0163-89 to 0164-89
Folder contains job numbers 0170-89 to 0172-89
Folder contains job numbers 0174-89 to 0177-89
Folder contains job numbers 0178-89 to 0182-89
Folder contains job numbers 0183-89 to 0184-89
Folder contains job numbers 0187-89 to 0191-89
Folder contains job numbers 0196-89 to 0197-89
Folder contains job numbers 0199-89 to 0200-89
Folder contains job numbers 0203-89 to 0204-89
Folder contains job numbers 0205-89 to 0206-89
Two pages from FLORA, Fall 1998
Folder contains job numbers 0212-89 to 0215-89
Folder contains job numbers 0217-89 to 0218-89
Folder contains job numbers 0219-89 to 0225-89Arrows pointing to numbers 27, 33, 28
Folder contains job numbers 0235-89 to 0236-89
Folder contains job numbers 0250-89 to 0256-89
Arrow pointing to frame numbers 16
Note listing subjects in photosFolder contains job numbers 0268-89 to 0270-89
Folder contains job numbers 0271-89 to 0282-89
Folder contains job numbers 0284-89 to 0286-89
Folder contains job numbers 0290-89 to 0291-89
Folder contains job numbers 0292-89 to 0293-89
Folder contains job numbers 0294-89 to 0295-89
Folder contains job numbers 0297-89 to 0299-89
Folder contains job numbers 0302-89 to 0303-89
Folder contains job numbers 0313-89 to 0314-89
Folder contains job numbers 0320-89 to 0321-89
Folder contains job numbers 0325-89 to 0326-89
Folder contains job numbers 0328-89 to 0329-89
Note requesting prints
Folder contains job numbers 0337-89 to 0338-89Folder contains job numbers 0342-89 to 0343-89
Folder contains job numbers 0348-89 to 0349-89
Folder contains job numbers 0351-89 to 0352-89
Folder contains job numbers 0358-89 to 0359-89
Folder contains job numbers 0361-89 to 0362-89, Letter with program information
Folder contains job numbers 0365-89 to 0370-89
Folder contains job numbers 0371-89 to 0376-89Folder contains job numbers 0403-89 to 0404-89
Folder contains job numbers 0406-89 to 0410-89
Folder contains job numbers 0415-89 to 0416-89
Folder contains job numbers 0417-89 to 0418-89
Folder contains job numbers 0421-89 to 0430-89
Folder contains job numbers 0435-89 to 0436-89
Order form
Folder contains job numbers 0442-89 to 0450-89
Folder contains job numbers 0452-89 to 0453-89
Folder contains job numbers 0456-89 to 0459-89
Note requesting print
Folder contains job numbers 0465-89 to 0467-89
Folder contains job numbers 0468-89 to 0469-89Folder contains job numbers 0472-89 to 0477-89
Folder contains job numbers 0478-89 to 0479-89
Folder contains job numbers 0480-89 to 0481-89
Folder contains job numbers 0483-89 to 0484-89
Folder contains job numbers 0487-89 to 0493-89
Folder contains job numbers 0504-89 to 0505-89
Folder contains job numbers 0506-89 to 0508-89
Folder contains job numbers 0509-89 to 0510-89
Folder contains job numbers 0522-89 to 0525-89
Note requesting prints
Folder contains job numbers 0527-89 to 0529-89
Folder contains job numbers 0530-89 to 0531-89
Folder contains job numbers 0533-89 to 0534-89Note on the back of print number 10 "11 - 8x10", note on back of print number 5 "50 - 8x10"
Folder contains job numbers 0541-89 to 0550-89
Folder contains job numbers 0551-89 to 0553-89
Folder contains job numbers 0554-89 to 0555-89
Folder contains job numbers 0556-89 to 0558-89Folder contains job numbers 0563-89 to 0565-89, Letter with print numbers and copies
Folder contains job numbers 0567-89 to 0568-89
Folder contains job numbers 0569-89 to 0571-89
Folder contains job numbers 0572-89 to 0587-89
Folder contains job numbers 0590-89 to 0591-89
Folder contains job numbers 0592-89 to 0593-89
Folder contains job numbers 0602-89 to 0603-89
Folder contains job numbers 0607-89 to 0608-89
Folder contains job numbers 0610-89 to 0612-89
Folder contains job numbers 0615-89 to 0621-89
"12"
"3"
Folder contains job numbers 0622-89 to 0624-89
One negative from a different sleeve
Folder contains job numbers 0626-89 to 0627-89
Order form
Folder contains job numbers 0628-89 to 0629-89
Folder contains job numbers 0631-89 to 0635-89
Folder contains job numbers 0636-89 to 0642-89
Folder contains job numbers 0646-89 to 0647-89
Folder contains job numbers 0648-89 to 0649-89
Folder contains job numbers 0651-89 to 0652-89
Folder contains job numbers 0653-89 to 0654-89
Folder contains job numbers 0656-89 to 0657-89
Folder contains job numbers 0658-89 to 0659-89
Folder contains job numbers 0661-89 to 0662-89
Folder contains job numbers 0663-89 to 0664-89
Folder contains job numbers 0666-89 to 0672-89
Folder contains job numbers 0673-89 to 0677-89, Letter explaining frames
Folder contains job numbers 0682-89 to 0683-89
Folder contains job numbers 0689-89 to 0690-89
Folder contains job numbers 0692-89 to 0693-89
Folder contains job numbers 0695-89 to 0698-89
Folder contains job numbers 0699-89 to 0700-89
Folder contains job numbers 0707-89 to 0708-89
Folder contains job numbers 0711-89 to 0718-89
Folder contains job numbers 0725-89 to 0733-89
Folder contains job numbers 0736-89 to 0737-89
Folder contains job numbers 0740-89 to 0741-89
Folder contains job numbers 0742-89 to 0743-89
Folder contains job numbers 0745-89 to 0746-89
Folder contains job numbers 0748-89 to 0749-89
Folder contains job numbers 0751-89 to 0754-89
Folder contains job numbers 0755-89 to 0756-89
Folder contains job numbers 0759-89 to 0760-89
Folder contains job numbers 0770-89 to 0771-89Folder contains job numbers 0792-89 to 0793-89
Folder contains job numbers 0805-89 to 0806-89
Folder contains job numbers 0807-89 to 0808-89
Folder contains job numbers 0809-89 to 0811-89
Folder contains job numbers 0812-89 to 0813-89
Folder contains job numbers 0814-89 to 0815-89
Folder contains job numbers 0827-89 to 0828-89
Folder contains job numbers 0830-89 to 0831-89
Folder contains job numbers 0835-89 to 0836-89
Folder contains job numbers 0837-89 to 0838-89
Folder contains job numbers 0843-89 to 0845-89
Folder contains job numbers 0849-89 to 0850-89
Folder contains job numbers 0851-89 to 0852-89
Folder contains job numbers 0856-89 to 0857-89
Folder contains job numbers 0858-89 to 0859-89
Folder contains job numbers 0861-89 to 0862-89, Contents are listed as job number 0601-89 and 0602-89, original envelope as 0861-89 and 0862-89
Folder contains job numbers 0869-89 to 0870-89
Folder contains job numbers 0875-89 to 0876-89
Folder contains job numbers 0879-89 to 0880-89
Folder contains job numbers 0882-89 to 0883-89
Folder contains job numbers 0884-89 to 0886-89
Folder contains job numbers 0896-89 to 0897-89
Folder contains job numbers 0900-89 to 0910-89
Folder contains job numbers 0913-89 to 0914-89
Folder contains job numbers 0915-89 to 0916-89
Print request
Folder contains job record numbers 0921-89 to 0922-89
Folder contains job record numbers 0930-89 to 0931-89
Folder contains job record numbers 0932-89 to 0935-89
Folder contains job record numbers 0936-89 to 0939-89
Folder contains job record numbers 0940-89 to 0942-89
Folder contains job record numbers 0943-89 to 0946-89
Folder contains job record numbers 0949-89 to 0951-89
Folder contains job record numbers 0952-89 to 0953-89
Folder contains job record numbers 0956-89 to 0958-89Folders contain job number records 0966-89 to 0967, Print note
Print note
2 Notes with print sizes
Note of frame number
Folder contains job number records 0987-89 to 0988-89
Folder contains job number records 0990-89 to 0991-89
Folder contains job number records 0993-89 to 0994-89
Folder contains job number records 0998-89 to 0999-89
Folder contains job number records 1000-89 to 1001-89
Folder contains job number records 1003-89 to 1004-89
Folder contains job number records 1007-89 to 1008-89
Folder contains job number records 1009-89 to 1010-89
Folder contains job number records 1013-89 to 1018-89
Folder contains job number records 1022-89 to 1023-89
Folder contains job number records 1024-89 to 1025-89
Folder contains job number records 1030-89 to 1031-89
Folder contains job number records 1032-89 to 1033-89
Folder contains job number records 1036-89 to 1037-89
Note with print requests
Folder contains job number records 1040-89 to 1041-89
Folder contains job number records 1042-89 to 1046-89
Folder contains job number records 1047-89 to 1050-89
Folder contains job number records 1054-89 to 1056-89
Folder contains job number records 1058-89 to 1059-89
Folder contains job number records 1066-89 to 1068-89
Folder contains job numbers records 1070-89 to 1071-89Folder contains job number records 1074-89 to 1075-89
Folder contains job number records 1078-89 to 1084-89
Folder contains job number records 1085-89 to 1086-89
Folder contains job number records 1087-89 to 1092-89
Folder contains job number records 1093-89 to 1094-89
Folder contains job number records 1098-89 to 1099-89
Note with frame numbers
Folder contains job number records 1022-89 to 1104-89
Folder contains job number records 1105-89 to 1106-89
Folder contains job number records 1108-89 to 1109-89
Folder contains job number records 1111-89 to 1112-89
Folder contains job number records 1119-89 to 1120-89
Folder contains job number records 1123-89 to 1125-89
Folder contains job number records 1126-89 to 1128-89
Folder contains job number records 1129-89 to 1130-89
Folder contains job number records 1132-89 to 1133-89
Folder contains job number records 1137-89 to 1140-89
Two notes with styling notes for flyers and prints, one sticky note with dimensions, two 8.5x11" copies of flyers with design and layout notes
Folder contains job number records 1143-89 to 1145-89
Letter with print and size requests
Folder contains job number records 1149-89 to 1150-89
Folder contains job number records 1151-89 to 1152-89
Folder contains job number records 1154-89 to 1155-89
Folder contains job number records 1156-89 to 1157-89
Folders contain job number records 1165-89 to 1168-89
Folder contains job number records 1169-89 to 1170-89
Folder contains job number records 1171-89 to 1181-89
Folder contains job number records 1182-89 to 1184-89
Folder contains job number records 1189-89 to 1190-89
Folder contains job number records 1191-89 to 1192-89
Note with print and size requests
Folder contains job number records 1201-89 to 1206-89
Folder contains job number records 1208-89 to 1209-89
Folder contains job number records 1210-89 to 1213-89
Folder contains job number records 1228-89 to 1232-89
Folder contains job number records 1243-89 to 1245-89
Folder contains job number records 1246-89 to 1249-89
Folder contains job number records 1251-89 to 1253-89
Folder contains job number records 1254-89 to 1257-89
Folder contains job number records 1258-89 to 1259-89
Folder contains job number records 1261-89 to 1262-89
Note with frame numbers
Folder contains job number records 1267-89 to 1268-89
Folder contains job number records 1275-89 to 1276-89
Folder contains job number records 1278-89 to 1284-89
Folder contains job number records 1285-89 to 1290-89
Folder contains job number records 1291-89 to 1296-89
Folder contains job number records 1297-89 to 1306-89
Folder contains job number records 1307-89 to 1308-89
Folder contains job number records 1311-89 to 1314-89
Folder contains job number records 1316-89 to 1317-89, two notes with frame numbers
Note with frame numbers
Folder contains job number records 1319-89 to 1320-89
Folder contains job number records 1326-89 to 1328-89
Folder contains job number records 1334-89 to 1336-89
Folder contains job number records 1340-89 to 1341-89
Folder contains job number records 1343-89 to 1344-89
Folder contains job number records 1345-89 to 1346-89
Folder contains job number records 1347-89 to 1350-89
Folder contains job number records 1352-89 to 1354-89
Folder contains job number records 1355-89 to 1357-89
Folder contains job number records 1358-89 to 1359-89
Folder contains job number records 1363-89 to 1364-89
Folder contains job number records 1365-89 to 1367-89
Note with print number and size
Folder contains job number records 1374-89 to 1375-89
Folder contains job number records 1376-89 to 1377
Folder contains job number records 1379-89 to 1384-89
Folder contains job number records 1385-89 to 1386-89
Folder contains job number records 1388-89 to 1389-89
Folder contains job number records 1392-89 to 1393-89
Folder contains job number records 1395-89 to 1398-89
Letter requesting print
Folder contains job number records 1399-89 to 1400-89
Damaged negatives, bent in envelope
Folder contains job number records 0001-90 to 0002-90
Folder contains job number records 0004-90 to 0009-90
Folder contains job number records 0010-90 to 0011-90
Folder contains job number records 0016-90 to 0017-90
Folder contains job number records 0018-90 to 0019-90
Folder contains job number records 0022-90 to 0023-90
Folder contains job number records 0028-90 to 0029-90
Folder contains job number records 0033-90 to 0034-90
Folder contains job number records 0039-90 to 0040-90
Folder contains job number records 0042-90 to 0046-90, note requesting prints of marked frames on contact sheetFolder contains job number records 0052-90 to 0053-90
Folder contains job number records 0054-90 to 0055-90
Folder contains job number records 0056-90 to 0059-90
Folder contains job number records 0060-90 to 0064-90
Folder contains job number records 0067-90 to 0068-90
Folder contains job number records 0069-90 to 0071-90
Folder contains job number records 0072-90 to 0078-90
Folder contains job number records 0079-90 to 0080-90
Folder contains job number records 0083-90 to 0084-90
Folder contains job number records 0088-90 to 0089-90
Folder contains job number records 0090-90 to 0093-90
Folder contains job number records 0097-90 to 0099-90
Folder contains job number records 0103-90 to 0104-90
Folder contains job number records 0106-90 to 0107-90
Folder contains job number records 0112-90 to 0113-90
Folder contains job number records 0116-90 to 0117-90
Folder contains job number records 0123-90 to 0124-90Folder contains job number records 0128-90 to 0130-90
Folder contains job number records 0132-90 to 0133-90
Folder contains job number records 0135-90 to 0137-90
Folder contains job number records 0138-90 to 0140-90
Contact print from 35 mm negatives not in file
Folder contains job number records 0149-90 to 0150-90
Two notes
Folder contains job number records 0157-90 to 0158-90
Negatives matching prints are not in fileNoteNoteOrder form
Note pointing to negatives 0 and 2, thank you note
Two copy negatives from 0363-90 (Isle Malgine Society Clock) listed as 0364-90
Sticky tab pointing to negative number threeSticky tab pointing to negative number 30
Negatives description not listed, most same as 0513-90 negatives
Negatives are a mix off all job numbers contained in folder, most same as 0516-90
Note requesting prints, two negatives in cardboard carriers
Note requesting print
Letter requesting prints
Note with print requests
One negative from a different rollNoteFolder contains job record numbers 0757-90 to 0758-90
Folder contains job record numbers 0759-90 to 0760-90, note
Folder contains job record numbers 0761-90 to 0763-90
Folder contains job record numbers 0765-90 to 0770-90, note
No negatives with contact print
Folder contains job number records 0777-90 to 0778-90
Folder contains job number records 0779-90 to 0780-90
Folder contains job number records 0781-90 to 0782-90
Folder contains job number records 0783-90 to 0784-90Folder contains job number records 0789-90 to 0792-90
Folder contains job number records 0795-90 to 0797-90
Folder contains job number records 0798-90 to 0799-90
Folder contains job number records 0800-90 to 0801-90
Folder contains job number records 0802-90 to 0804-90
Folder contains job number records 0805-90 to 0806-90
Folder contains job number records 0808-90 to 0809-90
Folder contains job number records 0810-90 to 0811-90
Written on envelope: "Don't charge me for these errors. Sam"
Folder contains job number records 0822-90 to 0827-90
Folder contains job number records 0829-90 to 0833-90
Folder contains job number records 0838-90 to 0839-90
Folder contains job number records 0847-90 to 0850-90, Duke Magazine from Oct. 13, 2990
Folder contains job number records 0861-90 to 0865-90
Folder contains job number records 0868-90 to 0872-90
Folder contains job number records 0874-90 to 0876-90
Folder contains job number records 0878-90 to 0885-90
Folder contains job number records 0886-90 to 0887-90Folder contains job number records 0897-90 to 0901-90
Folder contains job number records 0907-90 to 0908-90
Folder contains job number records 0912-90 to 0913-90
Folder contains job number records 0917-90 to 0941-90, 17 pages with names of subjects for each roll
Folder contains job number records 0944-90 to 0945-90
Folder contains job number records 0948-90 to 0949-90
Folder contains job number records 0952-90 to 0962-90
Folder contains job number records 0967-90 to 0972-90
Folder contains job number records 0975-90 to 0976-90
Folder contains job number records 0977-90 to 0980-90Folder contains job number records 0993-90 to 0996-90, noteNote pointing to numbers 3 and 4
Folder contains job number records 1000-90 to 1002-90
Folder contains job number records 1016-90 to 1017-90
Folder contains job number records 1021-90 to 1026-90
Folder contains job number records 1028-90 to 1029-90
Folder contains job number records 1030-90 to 1032-90
Contents mislabeled as 1033-90
Folder contains job number records 1036-90 to 1037-90
Folder contains job number records 1038-90 to 1039-90
Folder contains job number records 1040-90 to 1042-90
Folder contains job number records 1044-90 to 1045-90
Folder contains job number records 1046-90 to 1047-90
Folder contains job number records 1049-90 to 1050-90
Folder contains job number records 1054-90 to 1056-90Folder contains job number records 1067-90 to 1068-90
Folder contains job number records 1069-90 to 1070-90
Names, note, two name tents, one order sheet
Two notes
Folder contains job number records 1082-90 to 1084-90
Folder contains job number records 1093-90 to 1102-90
Folder contains job number records 1103-90 to 1106-90
Folder contains job number records 1110-90 to 1111-90
Folder contains job number records 1112-90 to 1116-90
Folder contains job number records 1118-90 to 1119-90
Folder contains job number records 1120-90 to 1122-90
Folder contains job number records 1132-90 to 1133-90
Folder contains job number records 1142-90 to 1146-90
Folder contains job number records 1151-90 to 1152-90
Folder contains job number records 1158-90 to 1159-90
Folder contains job number records 1160-90 to 1161-90
Folder contains job number records 1162-90 to 1163-90
Folder contains job number records 1166-90 to 1169-90
Folder contains job number records 1171-90 to 1172-90
Folder contains job number records 1173-90 to 1176-90
Folder contains job number records 1178-90 to 1184-90
Folder contains job number records 1187-90 to 1188-90
Folder contains job number records 1189-90 to 1190-90
Folder contains job number records 1192-90 to 1197-90
Folder contains job number records 1208-90 to 1209-90
Folder contains job number records 1223-90 to 1225-90
Folder contains job number records 1227-90 to 1229-90
Folder contains job number records 1230-90 to 1231-90
Folder contains job number records 1234-90 to 1236-90
Folder contains job number records 1241-90 to 1243-90
Note pointing to negatives 10-14
Folder contains job number records 1248-90 to 1249-90
Folder contains job number records 1252-90 to 1254-90
Folder contains job number records 1255-90 to 1257-90
Folder contains job number records 1258-90 to 1272-90
Folder contains job number records 1273-90 to 1279-90
Folder contains job number records 1282-90 to 1283-90
Folder contains job number records 1284-90 to 1288-90
Folder contains job number records 1289-90 to 1290-90
Folder contains job number records 1291-90 to 1292-90
Contents match metadata but mislabeled as 1282-90 and 1283-90
Folder contains job number records 1294-90 to 1295-90
Folder contains job number records 1296-90 to 1299-90
Folder contains job number records 1301-90 to 1302-90
Folder contains job number records 1304-90 to 1306-90
Folder contains job number records 1307-90 to 1308-90
Folder contains job number records 1310-90 to 1312-90
Folder contains job number records 1314-90 to 1316-90
Folder contains job number records 1317-90 to 1318-90, 1990-'91 Basketball season card
Two negatives in transparencies with frame for printing
Folder contains job number records 1326-90 to 1329-90
Folder contains job number records 1331-90 to 1332-90
Folder contains job number records 1334-90 to 1337-90
Folder contains job number records 1340-90 to 1341-90
Folder contains job number records 1348-90 to 1349-90
Folder contains job number records 1350-90 to 1351-90
Folder contains job number records 1352-90 to 1353-90
Folder contains job number records 1354-90 to 1355-90
Folder contains job number records 1356-90 to 1357-90
Folder contains job number records 1358-90 to 1359-90
Folder contains job number records 1364-90 to 1369-90
Folder contains job number records 1371-90 to 1372-90
Folder contains job number records 1375-90 to 1378-90
Folder contains job number records 1381-90 to 1390-90
Folder contains job number records 1391-90 to 1392-90
Folder contains job number records 1401-90 to 1405-90
Folder contains job number records 1406-90 to 1408-90
Folder contains job number records 1416-90 to 1417-90
Folder contains job number records 1418-90 to 1420-90
Folder contains job number records 1421-90 to 1422-90
Folder contains job number records 1423-90 to 1425-90
Folder contains job number records 1427-90 to 1430-90
Folder contains job number records 1431-90 to 1432-90
Folder contains job number records 1433-90 to 1435-90
Folder contains job number records 1437-90 to 1438-90
Folder contains job number records 1440-90 to 1441-90
Folder contains job number records 1443-90 to 1444-90
One negative from different roll, subject: football
Folder contains job number records 1447-90 to 1449-90
Folder contains job number records 1450-90 to 1451-90
Folder contains job number records 1457-90 to 1465-90
Folder contains job number records 1469-90 to 1471-90
Folder contains job number records 1472-90 to 1473-90
Folder contains job number records 1476-90 to 1478-90
Folder contains job number records 1479-90 to 1480-90
Note with frame numbers, 2 oversize prints
Note, stickies underlining frames 2, 7, 13, 14
Folder contains job number records 1489-90 to 1490-90
Folder contains job number records 1491-90 to 1492-90
Folder contains job number records 1499-90 to 1500-90
Folder contains job number records 1501-90 to 1503-90
Folder contains job number records 1505-90 to 1510-90
Folder contains job number records 1511-90 to 1515-90
Folder contains job number records 1516-90 to 1519-90, part of 1516-90 labeled as 0759-90 on negatives and contact sheet. Kept with 1516-90 to match metadata
Folder contains job number records 1520-90 to 1522-90
Folder contains job number records 1523-90 to 1525-90Folder contains job number records 1529-90 to 1531-90, note
Folder contains job number records 1535-90 to 1540-90
Folder contains job number records 1541-90 to 1543-90
Folder contains job number records 0002-91 to 0003-91
Folder contains job number records 0008-91 to 0011-91
Folder contains job number records 0012-91 to 0013-91
Folder contains job number records 0019-91 to 0021-91
Folder contains job number records 0023-91 to 0025-91
Folder contains job number records 0026-91 to 0027-91Folder contains job number records 0031-91 to 0032-91
Folder contains job number records 0034-91 to 0036-91
Folder contains job number records 0038-91 to 0042-91
Folder contains job number records 0044-91 to 0045-91
Folder contains job number records 0047-91 to 0048-91
Folder contains job number records 0054-91 to 0057-91
Folder contains job number records 0059-91 to 0060-91
Folder contains job number records 0062-91 to 0063-91
Folder contains job number records 0065-91 to 0067-91
Folder contains job number records 0068-91 to 0069-91
Folder contains job number records 0071-91 to 0073-91
Folder contains job number records 0074-91 to 0075-91
Folder contains job number records 0076-91 to 0079-91
Folder contains job number records 0083-91 to 0084-91Folder contains job number records 0095-91 to 0100-91, xerox copy of contact sheet
Xerox copy of contact sheet
Xerox copy of contact sheet
Xerox copy of contact sheet
Xerox copy of contact sheet
Xerox copy of contact sheet
Folder contains job number records 0102-91 to 0103-91
Folder contains job number records 0104-91 to 0105-91
Folder contains job number records 0109-91 to 0110-91
Folder contains job number records 0113-91 to 0115-91
Folder contains job number records 0116-91 to 0117-91
Folder contains job number records 0118-91 to 0119-91
Folder contains job number records 0120-91 to 0122-91
Folder contains job number records 0123-91 to 0124-91
Printing notes and print request
Folder contains job number records 0131-91 to 0132-91
Folder contains job number records 0138-91 to 0139-91
Two negatives from a different roll
Folder contains job number records 0141-91 to 0142-91
Folder contains job number records 150-91 to 0152-91
Folder contains job number records 0155-91 to 0156-91
Folder contains job number records 0157-91 to 0160-91
Folder contains job number records 0163-91 to 0165-91
Folder contains job number records 0166-91 to 0168-91
Folder contains job number records 0171-91 to 0173-91, sticky note on contact sheet pointing to exposure 23
Two Sticky notes on contact sheet pointing to exposures 3, 4, 5, 14
Sticky note on contact sheet pointing to exposure numbers 8, 9, 10; note on print
Folder contains job number records 0176-91 to 0177-91
Folder contains job number records 0178-91 to 0179-91
One negative from different roll
Folder contains job number records 0190-91 to 0193-91
Folder contains job number records 0197-91 to 0198-91
Folder contains job number records 0200-91 to 0203-91
Folder contains job number records 0204-91 to 0205-91
Folder contains job number records 0208-91 to 0209-91
Folder contains job number records 0212-91 to 0214-91
Folder contains job number records 0215-91 to 0216-91
Folder contains job number records 0219-91 to 0225-91
Folder contains job number records 0226-91 to 0232-91
Folder contains job number records 0233-9 to 0236-91
Folder contains job number records 0237-91 to 0238-91
Folder contains job number records 0243-91 to 0244-91
Folder contains job number records 0245-91 to 0246-91, sticky note pointing to exposure 20
Folder contains job number records 0253-91 to 0256-91
Folder contains job number records 0264-91 to 0265-91
Folder contains job number records 0270-91 to 0273-91
Folder contains job number records 0276-91 to 0282-91
Folder contains job number records 0286-91 to 0288-91Folder contains job number records 0292-91 to 0294-91
Folder contains job number records 0295-91 to 0296-91
Folder contains job number records 0298-91 to 0299-91
Folder contains job number records 0302-91 to 0303-91
Folder contains job number records 0316-91 to 0322-91
Folder contains job number records 0325-91 to 0326-91
Folder contains job number records 0328-91 to 0329-91
Folder contains job number records 0333-91 to 0034-91, note from Nancy Feree-Clark
Folder contains job number records 0335-91 to 0336-91
Folder contains job number records 0339-91 to 0341-91
Folder contains job number records 0342-91 to 0344-91
Folder contains job number records 0349-91 to 0350-91
Folder contains job number records 0353-91 to 0355-91
Folder contains job number records 0358-91 to 0359-91
Folder contains job number records 0360-91 to 0363-91
Folder contains job number records 0364-91 to 0371-91
Folder contains job number records 0373-91 to 0375-91
2 sleeves unlabeled left in envelope as loose negatives
Note, two pages with print and frame numbers
2 notes
Negatives have wrong job number, match description for 0402-91 A
Sticky tabs pointing to frames 3, 15Sticky note with year, photocopy of newspaper clipping
Negatives mislabeled, match prints and description
Note, negatives and contact sheets in separate folders
Photograph order form, West campus map
Letter requesting prints
Letter requesting prints, Faculty Photo ID List, photocopies of contact sheetsNote with year
Photocopy of contact sheet
2 notesList of needed printsNoteSticky notes on frames 3, 4, 5, 9, 10, 11, 16
Photocopies of contact sheetsNoteNote, sticky tab pointing to frame 4 on 0981-91BOne set of negatives mislabeled for 0992-91, match description for 0991-91
Letter with frame numbers
3 pages requesting printsNoteLetter requesting printsSticky tab pointing to exposure 8 on 0229-92A
Negatives mislabeled as 0251-92, matches metadata for 0250-92
Sticky tab on exposure 33, 0270-92GNoteNoteNote on envelope "Print number 3"
Copy of article with note to photographers requesting printSticky tab on exposure 5, 16
6 notes, negatives and contact sheets in separate folders
Note on envelope "printed number 22"
3 pages of fax requesting prints
10 pages photocopies of contact printsNote requesting print, printout of field photo requirements
List of subjects and exposures
Subject list
2 Notes
2 Notes
Missing 1 sheet of negatives to match contact sheet in folder
Photocopy of negativeNo negatives in folder
Note, negatives mislabeled as 0649-92
2 4x5" negatives in envelope mislabeled 0276-95
2 Text overlays for printing
Sticky tabs pointing to exposures 5, 6
2 notes
2 letters with subject notesNoteSticky tab on exposure 8
Note with list of prints
Note with exposure numberMislabeled as 0447-92
Hillsboro Division Map, note for printsNote with name and P.O. BoxNo negative with contact print
2 Notes with print numbers
2 notes
Note on exposure number 33 from 0186-93B
2 notes with print numbers
Letter from Center for Living, non-photo related
Note with print numbersNoteNo negatives to match contact print
Labeled as 0279-93
Photocopy of contact sheet
Arrow pointing to exposure number 4 on 0419-93B, memorandum requesting prints, 2 letters with requested images
Note requesting print and sizes
Note from Civil Engineering Class
Labels from Duke Photo
Photocopy of print
Note requesting prints
Note from envelope: "copy, original 4/87"
Note from envelope: "copy, original 10/88"
Sticky note pointing to exposures 14 and 15Note pointing to exposure 7
Note pointing to exposure number 4
Letter with subject namesNoteNoteLetter with subject names
No negatives
Letter with presentation attendees
Negatives labeled incorrectly as 0683-93 and 0902-93C
Negatives mislabeled as 0866-93
Note requesting prints
Duke Photo charge sheetSubjects note for event
Negative sleeve with frame numbersNote with names of subjects
Pamphlet from Dr. King Program
Note with inventory numbers
Notes for prints from 0062-94C, sheet from print lab
Symposium Pamphlet with notes, Addendum slip, Copy of program with notes, Schedule copy
Note of subjects
3 sticky notes with size and print requests
3 Notes for prints
ACC Schedule and list of athletes, printing notes, duplicate note (notes from slide sheet with asterisks top 8 printing notes, bottom 6 duplicate notes)
Envelope note: shot 10 1993, photo by Chris Hildreth
Japanese Society and Industry in Transition Seminar ScheduleNote "?"
Tabs on exposures 4, 7, 15, 23
Photographer: Ron Ferrell
Job number labelLetter to Public Affairs Staff, Public Affairs Organizational Chart
Printing note
Missed call slip
2 memo notices about prints, sticky note with print request
Note from envelope "Color slides given to Sid on 4/25/94 with black and white contacts"
Employee with pet stories list, message for photographer Bruce
0347-94G sticky note pointing to exposure 31
Exposure 13 note
Printing note
Letter with print requests
Memo with subject names for group photo
Note on exposure 11
List of photo subjects
2 notes with print requests
3 notes with printing requests
Note with printing request
Note with printing request
Note with printing request
Note with printing request
Note with printing request
Print note on exposure 12 on 0478-94A
2 prints are oversize
Sticky note pointing to exposure 18 on 0504-94A, sticky note pointing to exposure 19 on 0504-94B
Sticky note pointing to exposure 19
Sticky note pointing to exposure 17
Printed email about system being donated
Envelope with notes
Sticky note pointing to exposure 24 on 0535-94B
List of page numbers to photograph
Missing one negative
Two emails with time, date, and location details
Job numbers 0578-94, 0579-94, and 0580-94 in same folder
Two notes, Job numbers 0590-94 and 0591-94 in same folder
Letter with print requests, Job numbers 0590-94 and 0591-94 in same folder
Letter with reception details; damaged 120 negative, bent; job numbers 0594-94, 0595-94, 0596-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0594-94, 0595-94, 0596-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0594-94, 0595-94, 0596-94 in same folder
Three pages of event details
Polaroid prints
Job numbers 0606-94, 0607-94, and 0608-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0606-94, 0607-94, and 0608-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0606-94, 0607-94, and 0608-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0609-94, 0610-94, and 0611-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0609-94, 0610-94, and 0611-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0609-94, 0610-94, and 0611-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0612-94, 0613-94, 0614-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0612-94, 0613-94, 0614-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0612-94, 0613-94, 0614-94 in same folder
Letter with event details, Job numbers 0618-94, 0619-94, 0620-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0618-94, 0619-94, 0620-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0618-94, 0619-94, 0620-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0624-94 and 0625-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0624-94 and 0625-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0628-94, 0630-94, 0631-94 in same folder
Fax with event details; Job numbers 0628-94, 0630-94, 0631-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0628-94, 0630-94, 0631-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0633-94, 0634-94, 0635-94 in same folder
Missing one negative; Job numbers 0633-94, 0634-94, 0635-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0633-94, 0634-94, 0635-94 in same folder
Letter with event details
Job numbers 0641-94, 0642-94, 0643-94 in same folder
Release form; Job numbers 0641-94, 0642-94, 0643-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0641-94, 0642-94, 0643-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0644-94 and 0645-94 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 0644-94 and 0645-94 in same folder
Letter with schedule
Job numbers 0647-94, 0648-94, 0650-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0647-94, 0648-94, 0650-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0647-94, 0648-94, 0650-94 in same folder
Note; Job numbers 0652-94, 0653-94, 0654-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0652-94, 0653-94, 0654-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0652-94, 0653-94, 0654-94 in same folder
Letter with event details; Job numbers 0655-94, 0656-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0655-94, 0656-94 in same folder
Note from envelope for separated negatives "Negatives selected for initial print order"
Job numbers 0658-94, 0659-94, 0660-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0658-94, 0659-94, 0660-94 in same folder
Two letters with details; Job numbers 0658-94, 0659-94, 0660-94 in same folder
Folder contains job numbers 0661-94, 0662-94, 0663-94
Folder contains job numbers 0661-94, 0662-94, 0663-94
Folder contains job numbers 0661-94, 0662-94, 0663-94
Letter requesting prints
Job numbers 0670-94, 0673-94, 0674-94, 0675-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0670-94, 0673-94, 0674-94, 0675-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0670-94, 0673-94, 0674-94, 0675-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0670-94, 0673-94, 0674-94, 0675-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0677-94, 0678-94, 0679-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0677-94, 0678-94, 0679-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0677-94, 0678-94, 0679-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0680-94, 0681-94, 0682-94 in same folder
Two letters for scheduling photoshoot; Job numbers 0680-94, 0681-94, 0682-94 in same folder
Letter scheduling shoot; Job numbers 0680-94, 0681-94, 0682-94 in same folder
Photographer notes and charges
Letter with photo request; Job numbers 0688-94, 0689-94, 0690-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0688-94, 0689-94, 0690-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0688-94, 0689-94, 0690-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0691-94, 0692-94, 0693-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0691-94, 0692-94, 0693-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0691-94, 0692-94, 0693-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0695-94 and 0696-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0695-94 and 0696-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0698-94, 0699-94, 0700-94 in same folder
Letter requesting shoot; Job numbers 0698-94, 0699-94, 0700-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0698-94, 0699-94, 0700-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0703-94, 0704-94, 0705-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0703-94, 0704-94, 0705-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0703-94, 0704-94, 0705-94 in same folder
Event Program
Fax cover page
Job numbers 0709-94 and 0710-94
Job numbers 0709-94 and 0710-94
Multiple shots from various productions from 1989-1994
Letter with shoot details; Job numbers 0713-94 and 0714-94 in same folder
Event Flyer; job numbers 0713-94 and 0714-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0716-94 and 0717-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0716-94 and 0717-94 in same folder
Photo consent release form
Job numbers 0719-94, 0720-94, 0721-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0719-94, 0720-94, 0721-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0719-94, 0720-94, 0721-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0723-94, 0724-94, 0725-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0723-94, 0724-94, 0725-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0723-94, 0724-94, 0725-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0726-94, 0727-94, 0728-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0726-94, 0727-94, 0728-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0726-94, 0727-94, 0728-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0729-94, 0730-94, 0731-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0729-94, 0730-94, 0731-94 in same folder
Distinguished speaker series program; Job numbers 0729-94, 0730-94, 0731-94 in same folder
Distinguished speaker series program; Job numbers 0733-94 and 0735-94 in same folder
Event photograher request, photo time and material log, Job numbers 0733-94 and 0735-94 in same folder
Event Program, Job numbers 0736-94, 0737-94, 0738-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0736-94, 0737-94, 0738-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0736-94, 0737-94, 0738-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0739-94, 0740-94, 0741-94 in same folder
Event program; Job numbers 0739-94, 0740-94, 0741-94 in same folder
Event program; Job numbers 0739-94, 0740-94, 0741-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0744-94, 0745-94 in same folder
Business card copy; Job numbers 0744-94, 0745-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0751-94 and 0753-94 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 0751-94 and 0753-94 in same folder
Two Event ProgramsLetter
Job numbers 0760-94, 0761-94, 0762-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0760-94, 0761-94, 0762-94 in same folder
Note; Job numbers 0760-94, 0761-94, 0762-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0763-94, 0765-94, 0766-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0763-94, 0765-94, 0766-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0763-94, 0765-94, 0766-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0769-94, 0770-94, 0771-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0769-94, 0770-94, 0771-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0769-94, 0770-94, 0771-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0773-94 and 0774-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0773-94 and 0774-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0776-94, 0777-94, 0779-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0776-94, 0777-94, 0779-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0776-94, 0777-94, 0779-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0781-94, 0782-94, 0783-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0781-94, 0782-94, 0783-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0781-94, 0782-94, 0783-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0784-94, 0785-94, 0786-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0784-94, 0785-94, 0786-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0784-94, 0785-94, 0786-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0787-94, 0788-94, 0789-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0787-94, 0788-94, 0789-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0787-94, 0788-94, 0789-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0790-94 and 0791-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0790-94 and 0791-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0794-94 and 0796-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0794-94 and 0796-94 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 0798-94, 0799-94, 0800-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0798-94, 0799-94, 0800-94 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 0798-94, 0799-94, 0800-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0802-94, 0803-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0802-94, 0803-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0805-94, 0806-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0805-94, 0806-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0810-94, 0811-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0810-94, 0811-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0813-94, 0814-94, 0815-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0813-94, 0814-94, 0815-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0813-94, 0814-94, 0815-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0816-94, 0817-94, 0818-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0816-94, 0817-94, 0818-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0816-94, 0817-94, 0818-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0820-94, 0821-94, 0822-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0820-94, 0821-94, 0822-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0820-94, 0821-94, 0822-94 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 0823-94, 0824-94, 0825-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0823-94, 0824-94, 0825-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0823-94, 0824-94, 0825-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0826-94, 0827-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0826-94, 0827-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0829-94, 0830-94, 0831-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0829-94, 0830-94, 0831-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0829-94, 0830-94, 0831-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0832-94, 0834-94, 0835-94 in same folder
Letter with subject numbers; Job numbers 0832-94, 0834-94, 0835-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0832-94, 0834-94, 0835-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0837-94, 0838-94, 0839-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0837-94, 0838-94, 0839-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0837-94, 0838-94, 0839-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0840-94, 0841-94, 0842-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0840-94, 0841-94, 0842-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0840-94, 0841-94, 0842-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0843-94, 0844-94, 0846-94 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 0843-94, 0844-94, 0846-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0843-94, 0844-94, 0846-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0848-94, 0849-94, 0850-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0848-94, 0849-94, 0850-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0848-94, 0849-94, 0850-94 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 0848-94, 0849-94, 0850-94 in same folder
Two letters
Event Program
Job numbers 0864-94, 0865-94, 0867-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0864-94, 0865-94, 0867-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0864-94, 0865-94, 0867-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0868-94, 0869-94, 0870-94 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 0868-94, 0869-94, 0870-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0868-94, 0869-94, 0870-94 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 0871-94, 0872-94, 0873-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0871-94, 0872-94, 0873-94 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 0871-94, 0872-94, 0873-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0877-94, 0878-94, 0879-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0877-94, 0878-94, 0879-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0877-94, 0878-94, 0879-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0880-94, 0881-94, 0882-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0880-94, 0881-94, 0882-94 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 0880-94, 0881-94, 0882-94 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 0884-94, 0885-94, 0886-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0884-94, 0885-94, 0886-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0884-94, 0885-94, 0886-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0884-94, 0885-94, 0886-94 in same folder
Four schedules
Letter
Job numbers 0894-94, 0896-94, 0897-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0894-94, 0896-94, 0897-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0894-94, 0896-94, 0897-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0898-94, 0899-94, 0900-94 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 0898-94, 0899-94, 0900-94 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 0898-94, 0899-94, 0900-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0901-94, 0902-94, 0903-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0901-94, 0902-94, 0903-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0901-94, 0902-94, 0903-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0906-94, 0907-94, 0909-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0906-94, 0907-94, 0909-94 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 0906-94, 0907-94, 0909-94 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 0910-94, 0911-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0910-94, 0911-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0914-94, 0915-94, 0916-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0914-94, 0915-94, 0916-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0914-94, 0915-94, 0916-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0918-94, 0919-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0918-94, 0919-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0920-94, 0921-94, 0922-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0920-94, 0921-94, 0922-94 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 0920-94, 0921-94, 0922-94 in same folder
Letter; job numbers 0924-94, 0925-94, 0926-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0924-94, 0925-94, 0926-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0924-94, 0925-94, 0926-94 in same folder
Note with subject names on back of contact sheet, Job numbers 0927-94, 0929-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0927-94, 0929-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0930-94, 0932-94, 0933-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0930-94, 0932-94, 0933-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0930-94, 0932-94, 0933-94 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 0934-94, 0935-94, 0937-94 in same folder
Event schedule; Job numbers 0934-94, 0935-94, 0937-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0934-94, 0935-94, 0937-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0938-94, 0939-94, 0940-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0938-94, 0939-94, 0940-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0938-94, 0939-94, 0940-94 in same folder
Letter with instructions, two pages of nurses profiles
Sticky note with photo request; job numbers 0943-94, 0944-94, 0946-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0943-94, 0944-94, 0946-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0943-94, 0944-94, 0946-94 in same folder
Duke Magazine letter; Job numbers 0947-94, 0948-94, 0949-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0947-94, 0948-94, 0949-94 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 0947-94, 0948-94, 0949-94 in same folder
Article text; job numbers 0958-94, 0960-94, 0961-94
Article text; job numbers 0958-94, 0960-94, 0961-94
Article text; job numbers 0958-94, 0960-94, 0961-94
Article text; job numbers 0962-94, 0963-94, 0964-94, 0965-94 in same folder
Article text; job numbers 0962-94, 0963-94, 0964-94, 0965-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0962-94, 0963-94, 0964-94, 0965-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0962-94, 0963-94, 0964-94, 0965-94 in same folder
Article text; Job numbers 0966-94, 0967-94, 0968-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0966-94, 0967-94, 0968-94 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 0966-94, 0967-94, 0968-94 in same folder
Letter; job numbers 0969-94, 0971-94, 0972-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0969-94, 0971-94, 0972-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0969-94, 0971-94, 0972-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0973-94, 0974-94, 0975-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0973-94, 0974-94, 0975-94 in same folder
Article text; Job numbers 0973-94, 0974-94, 0975-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0976-94 and 0978-94 in same folder
Article text; Job numbers 0976-94 and 0978-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0980-94, 0981-94, 0982-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0980-94, 0981-94, 0982-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0980-94, 0981-94, 0982-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0987-94, 0988-94, 0990-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0987-94, 0988-94, 0990-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0987-94, 0988-94, 0990-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0992-94, 0993-94, 0994-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0992-94, 0993-94, 0994-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0992-94, 0993-94, 0994-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0995-94 and 0996-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0995-94 and 0996-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0998-94, 0999-94, 1000-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0998-94, 0999-94, 1000-94 in same folder
Job numbers 0998-94, 0999-94, 1000-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1009-94, 1010-94, 1011-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1009-94, 1010-94, 1011-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1009-94, 1010-94, 1011-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1013-94, 1015-94, 1016-94 in same folder
Fax cover sheet; Job numbers 1013-94, 1015-94, 1016-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1013-94, 1015-94, 1016-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1018-94, 1019-94, 1021-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1018-94, 1019-94, 1021-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1018-94, 1019-94, 1021-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1022-94, 1023-94, 1024-94 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 1022-94, 1023-94, 1024-94 in same folder
Letter; article text; Job numbers 1022-94, 1023-94, 1024-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1025-94, 1026-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1025-94, 1026-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1028-94, 1029-94, 1030-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1028-94, 1029-94, 1030-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1028-94, 1029-94, 1030-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1031-94, 1032-94, 1034-94 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 1031-94, 1032-94, 1034-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1031-94, 1032-94, 1034-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1037-94, 1038-94, 1039-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1037-94, 1038-94, 1039-94 in same folder
Photographer's schedule; Job numbers 1037-94, 1038-94, 1039-94 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 1040-94, 1041-94, 1042-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1040-94, 1041-94, 1042-94 in same folder
Photographer's schedule; Job numbers 1040-94, 1041-94, 1042-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1043-94, 1045-94, 1046-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1043-94, 1045-94, 1046-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1043-94, 1045-94, 1046-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1047-94, 1048-94, 1049-94 in same folder
Event Program; sticky note requesting prints; Job numbers 1047-94, 1048-94, 1049-94 in same folder
Event program; Job numbers 1047-94, 1048-94, 1049-94 in same folder
Event program; Job numbers 1050-94, 1051-994, 1052-94 in same folder
Event Program; Job numbers 1050-94, 1051-994, 1052-94 in same folder
Directions; Job numbers 1050-94, 1051-994, 1052-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1053-94, 1054-94, 1055-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1053-94, 1054-94, 1055-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1053-94, 1054-94, 1055-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1056-94, 1057-94, 1058-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1056-94, 1057-94, 1058-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1056-94, 1057-94, 1058-94 in same folder
Event Program; job numbers 1059-94, 1062-94, 1063-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1059-94, 1062-94, 1063-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1059-94, 1062-94, 1063-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1065-94, 1067-94, 1068-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1065-94, 1067-94, 1068-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1065-94, 1067-94, 1068-94 in same folderJob numbers 1071-94, 1072-94, 1073-94 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 1071-94, 1072-94, 1073-94 in same folder
Article draft; Job numbers 1071-94, 1072-94, 1073-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1074-94, 1075-94, 1076-94 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 1074-94, 1075-94, 1076-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1074-94, 1075-94, 1076-94 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 1077-94, 1078-94, 1079-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1077-94, 1078-94, 1079-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1077-94, 1078-94, 1079-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1082-94, 1083-94, 1085-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1082-94, 1083-94, 1085-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1082-94, 1083-94, 1085-94 in same folder
Event program; Job numbers 1086-94, 1087-94, 1088-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1086-94, 1087-94, 1088-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1086-94, 1087-94, 1088-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1089-94, 1090-94, 1091-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1089-94, 1090-94, 1091-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1089-94, 1090-94, 1091-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1093-94, 1094-94, 1096-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1093-94, 1094-94, 1096-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1093-94, 1094-94, 1096-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1097-94 and 1099-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1097-94 and 1099-94 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 1103-94 and 1104-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1103-94 and 1104-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1115-94, 1116-94, 1118-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1115-94, 1116-94, 1118-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1115-94, 1116-94, 1118-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1120-94, 1122-94, 1123-94 in same folder
Two letters; job numbers 1120-94, 1122-94, 1123-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1120-94, 1122-94, 1123-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1125-94, 1126-94, 1127-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1125-94, 1126-94, 1127-94 in same folder
Job numbers 1125-94, 1126-94, 1127-94 in same folder
Letter
Job numbers 0006-95, 0007-95, 0008-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0006-95, 0007-95, 0008-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0006-95, 0007-95, 0008-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0009-95, 0010-95, 0011-95 in same folder
Map; Job numbers 0009-95, 0010-95, 0011-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0009-95, 0010-95, 0011-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0012-95, 0013-95, 0014-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0012-95, 0013-95, 0014-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0012-95, 0013-95, 0014-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0016-95, 0017-95, 0018-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0016-95, 0017-95, 0018-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0016-95, 0017-95, 0018-95 in same folder
Note; Job numbers 0019-95, 0020-95, 0021-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0019-95, 0020-95, 0021-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0019-95, 0020-95, 0021-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0023-95, 0024-95, 0026-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0023-95, 0024-95, 0026-95 in same folder
Two notes; two notes pointing to exposures 14, 22; Job numbers 0023-95, 0024-95, 0026-95 in same folder
Article text; Job numbers 0028-95, 0029-95, 0030-95 in same folder
Article text; Job numbers 0028-95, 0029-95, 0030-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0028-95, 0029-95, 0030-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0031-95, 0032-95, 0033-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0031-95, 0032-95, 0033-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0031-95, 0032-95, 0033-95 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 0034-95, 0035-95, 0037-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0034-95, 0035-95, 0037-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0034-95, 0035-95, 0037-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0038-95, 0040-95, 0041-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0038-95, 0040-95, 0041-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0038-95, 0040-95, 0041-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0042-95, 0043-95, 0044-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0042-95, 0043-95, 0044-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0042-95, 0043-95, 0044-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0045-95, 0047-95, 0048-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0045-95, 0047-95, 0048-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0045-95, 0047-95, 0048-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0049-95, 0050-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0049-95, 0050-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0051-95, 0052-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0051-95, 0052-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0053-95, 0054-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0053-95, 0054-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0055-95, 0056-95, 0057-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0055-95, 0056-95, 0057-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0055-95, 0056-95, 0057-95 in same folder
Fax cover sheet
Job numbers 0059-95, 0060-95, 0061-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0059-95, 0060-95, 0061-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0059-95, 0060-95, 0061-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0062-95, 0063-95, 0064-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0062-95, 0063-95, 0064-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0062-95, 0063-95, 0064-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0065-95, 0066-95, 0067-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0065-95, 0066-95, 0067-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0065-95, 0066-95, 0067-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0069-95, 0070-95, 0071-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0069-95, 0070-95, 0071-95 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 0069-95, 0070-95, 0071-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0073-95, 0075-95, 0076-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0073-95, 0075-95, 0076-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0073-95, 0075-95, 0076-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0078-95, 0079-95, 0080-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0078-95, 0079-95, 0080-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0078-95, 0079-95, 0080-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0082-95, 0083-95, 0084-95 in same folder
Letter with notes; Job numbers 0082-95, 0083-95, 0084-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0082-95, 0083-95, 0084-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0085-95, 0086-95, 0087-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0085-95, 0086-95, 0087-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0085-95, 0086-95, 0087-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0088-95, 0089-95, 0090-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0088-95, 0089-95, 0090-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0088-95, 0089-95, 0090-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0091-95, 0092-95, 0093-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0091-95, 0092-95, 0093-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0091-95, 0092-95, 0093-95 in same folder
Appointment sheet with notes; Copy of event brochure; copy of campus map; Job numbers 0095-95, 0096-95, 0097-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0095-95, 0096-95, 0097-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0095-95, 0096-95, 0097-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0098-95, 0099-95 in same folder
Business card; Signed consent form; Job numbers 0098-95, 0099-95 in same folder
Letter; Job numbers 0111-95, 0112-95, 0113-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0111-95, 0112-95, 0113-95 in same folder
Memo; Job numbers 0111-95, 0112-95, 0113-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0116-95, 0117-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0116-95, 0117-95 in same folder
Job numbers 0122-95, 0123-95, 0124-95 in same folder
Event agenda; Job numbers 0122-95, 0123-95, 0124-95 in same folder
Event Agenda; Job numbers 0122-95, 0123-95, 0124-95 in same folder
Folder contains job numbers 0125-95, 0126-95, 0127-95
Folder contains job numbers 0125-95, 0126-95, 0127-95; Note with job information
Folder contains job numbers 0125-95, 0126-95, 0127-95
Folder contains job numbers 0133-95, 0135-95, 0136-95
Folder contains job numbers 0133-95, 0135-95, 0136-95
Folder contains job numbers 0133-95, 0135-95, 0136-95
Folder contains job numbers 0138-95, 0139-95, 0141-95
Folder contains job numbers 0138-95, 0139-95, 0141-95
Folder contains job numbers 0138-95, 0139-95, 0141-95; fax cover sheet
Folder contains job numbers 0146-95, 0147-95, 0148-95
Folder contains job numbers 0146-95, 0147-95, 0148-95
Folder contains job numbers 0146-95, 0147-95, 0148-95
Folder contains job numbers 0149-95, 0150-95, 0152-95; print request
Folder contains job numbers 0149-95, 0150-95, 0152-95
Folder contains job numbers 0149-95, 0150-95, 0152-95
Folder contains job numbers 0153-95, 0155-95, 0156-95; job request letter
Folder contains job numbers 0153-95, 0155-95, 0156-95; job request letter
Folder contains job numbers 0153-95, 0155-95, 0156-95; job request letter
Folder contains job numbers 0158-95, 0161-95
Folder contains job numbers 0158-95, 0161-95
Folder contains job numbers 0163-95, 0164-95, 0165-95
Folder contains job numbers 0163-95, 0164-95, 0165-95
Folder contains job numbers 0163-95, 0164-95, 0165-95
Folder contains job numbers 0167-95, 0168-95, 0169-95; event flyer
Folder contains job numbers 0167-95, 0168-95, 0169-95
Folder contains job numbers 0167-95, 0168-95, 0169-95
Folder contains job numbers 0170-95, 0171-95, 0172-95; event agenda
Folder contains job numbers 0170-95, 0171-95, 0172-95
Folder contains job numbers 0170-95, 0171-95, 0172-95; job request letter
Folder contains job numbers 0174-95, 0175-95, 0176-95
Folder contains job numbers 0174-95, 0175-95, 0176-95
Folder contains job numbers 0174-95, 0175-95, 0176-95; event details
Folder contains job numbers 0180-95, 0181-95, 0183-95
Folder contains job numbers 0180-95, 0181-95, 0183-95
Folder contains job numbers 0180-95, 0181-95, 0183-95
Folder contains job numbers 0187-95, 0188-95, 0190-95
Folder contains job numbers 0187-95, 0188-95, 0190-95
Folder contains job numbers 0187-95, 0188-95, 0190-95; signed consent form
Folder contains job numbers 0194-95, 0195-95; job numbers stapled together
Folder contains job numbers 0194-95, 0195-95; job numbers stapled together
Folder contains job numbers 0196-95, 0197-95
Folder contains job numbers 0196-95, 0197-95
Folder contains job numbers 0199-95, 0200-95
Folder contains job numbers 0199-95, 0200-95; job request; fax form; extra Duke Photography form for 0200-95 without corresponding negatives
Folder contains job numbers 0201-95, 0202-95
Folder contains job numbers 0201-95, 0202-95
Folder contains job numbers 0203-95, 0205-95, 0206-95; Fax form
Folder contains job numbers 0203-95, 0205-95, 0206-95
Folder contains job numbers 0203-95, 0205-95, 0206-95
Folder contains job numbers 0207-95, 0208-95, 0210-95
Folder contains job numbers 0207-95, 0208-95, 0210-95
Folder contains job numbers 0207-95, 0208-95, 0210-95
Letter with details
Folder contains job numbers 0213-95, 0215-95, 0216-95; letter contains event details
Folder contains job numbers 0213-95, 0215-95, 0216-95
Folder contains job numbers 0213-95, 0215-95, 0216-95
Folder contains job numbers 0217-95, 0219-95, 0220-95
Folder contains job numbers 0217-95, 0219-95, 0220-95; fax cover sheet; five sheets with first year schedule
Folder contains job numbers 0217-95, 0219-95, 0220-95
Folder contains job numbers 0221-95, 0222-95, 0223-95; event pamphlet
Folder contains job numbers 0221-95, 0222-95, 0223-95
Folder contains job numbers 0221-95, 0222-95, 0223-95
Folder contains job numbers 0225-95, 0226-95, 0228-95
Folder contains job numbers 0225-95, 0226-95, 0228-95; event details, event flyer
Folder contains job numbers 0225-95, 0226-95, 0228-95; letter with details, notes
Folder contains job numbers 0229-95, 0230-95, 0231-95
Folder contains job numbers 0229-95, 0230-95, 0231-95
Folder contains job numbers 0229-95, 0230-95, 0231-95
Folder contains job numbers 0232-95, 0233-95, 0236-95
Folder contains job numbers 0232-95, 0233-95, 0236-95
Folder contains job numbers 0232-95, 0233-95, 0236-95
Folder contains job numbers 0239-95, 0240-95, 0241-95; copy of article
Folder contains job numbers 0239-95, 0240-95, 0241-95
Folder contains job numbers 0239-95, 0240-95, 0241-95
Folder contains job numbers 0242-95, 0243-95, 0244-95, 0246-95, 0247-85
Folder contains job numbers 0242-95, 0243-95, 0244-95, 0246-95, 0247-85
Folder contains job numbers 0242-95, 0243-95, 0244-95, 0246-95, 0247-85
Folder contains job numbers 0242-95, 0243-95, 0244-95, 0246-95, 0247-85
Folder contains job numbers 0242-95, 0243-95, 0244-95, 0246-95, 0247-85
Folder contains job numbers 0252-95, 0253-95, 0255-95; event details
Folder contains job numbers 0252-95, 0253-95, 0255-95
Folder contains job numbers 0252-95, 0253-95, 0255-95
Folder contains job numbers 0256-95, 0257-95
Folder contains job numbers 0256-95, 0257-95
Event schedule, shoot details
Folder contains job numbers 0261-95, 0262-95, 0263-95
Folder contains job numbers 0261-95, 0262-95, 0263-95
Folder contains job numbers 0261-95, 0262-95, 0263-95
Folder contains job numbers 0265-95, 0266-95, 0268-95; event details
Folder contains job numbers 0265-95, 0266-95, 0268-95; event details
Folder contains job numbers 0265-95, 0266-95, 0268-95; event details, location map
Folder contains job numbers 0270-95, 0271-95; article copy, note with subjects
Folder contains job numbers 0270-95, 0271-95
Folder contains job numbers 0275-95, 0276-95
Folder contains job numbers 0275-95, 0276-95; two pages with event details
Folder contains job numbers 0277-95, 0278-95, 0279-95, 0280-95
Folder contains job numbers 0277-95, 0278-95, 0279-95, 0280-95
Folder contains job numbers 0277-95, 0278-95, 0279-95, 0280-95
Folder contains job numbers 0277-95, 0278-95, 0279-95, 0280-95
Folder contains job numbers 0281-95, 0282-95, 0283-95, 0284-95; 1883-1884
Folder contains job numbers 0281-95, 0282-95, 0283-95, 0284-95; original 1839-1842
Folder contains job numbers 0281-95, 0282-95, 0283-95, 0284-95
Folder contains job numbers 0281-95, 0282-95, 0283-95, 0284-95
Folder contains job numbers 0285-95, 0286-95, 0287-95, 0288-95
Folder contains job numbers 0285-95, 0286-95, 0287-95, 0288-95
Folder contains job numbers 0285-95, 0286-95, 0287-95, 0288-95
Folder contains job numbers 0285-95, 0286-95, 0287-95, 0288-95
Folder contains job numbers 0289-95, 0290-95
Folder contains job numbers 0289-95, 0290-95
Folder contains job numbers 0291-95, 0292-95, 0293-95, 0294-95
Folder contains job numbers 0291-95, 0292-95, 0293-95, 0294-95
Folder contains job numbers 0291-95, 0292-95, 0293-95, 0294-95
Folder contains job numbers 0291-95, 0292-95, 0293-95, 0294-95
Folder contains job numbers 0295-95, 0296-95, 0297-95; event details
Folder contains job numbers 0295-95, 0296-95, 0297-95
Folder contains job numbers 0295-95, 0296-95, 0297-95; event details with notes
Folder contains job numbers 0300-95, 0302-95, 0303-95; Article copy, event details
Folder contains job numbers 0300-95, 0302-95, 0303-95
Folder contains job numbers 0300-95, 0302-95, 0303-95; sticky tab on 0303-95B exposure 31
Folder contains job numbers 0304-95, 0306-95, 0307-95; event details
Folder contains job numbers 0304-95, 0306-95, 0307-95; event details
Folder contains job numbers 0304-95, 0306-95, 0307-95; event details
Folder contains job numbers 0309-95, 0311-95, 0314-95
Folder contains job numbers 0309-95, 0311-95, 0314-95
Folder contains job numbers 0309-95, 0311-95, 0314-95
Folder contains job numbers 0316-95, 0317-95, 0318-95
Folder contains job numbers 0316-95, 0317-95, 0318-95; event details
Folder contains job numbers 0316-95, 0317-95, 0318-95
Folder contains job numbers 0319-95, 0320-95, 0321-95
Folder contains job numbers 0319-95, 0320-95, 0321-95
Folder contains job numbers 0319-95, 0320-95, 0321-95
Folder contains job numbers 0322-95, 0323-95, 0324-95
Folder contains job numbers 0322-95, 0323-95, 0324-95
Folder contains job numbers 0322-95, 0323-95, 0324-95
Folder contains job numbers 0325-95, 0326-95, 0327-95
Folder contains job numbers 0325-95, 0326-95, 0327-95
Folder contains job numbers 0325-95, 0326-95, 0327-95
Folder contains job numbers 0328-95, 0329-95, 0330-95
Folder contains job numbers 0328-95, 0329-95, 0330-95
Folder contains job numbers 0328-95, 0329-95, 0330-95
Folder contains job numbers 0331-95, 0332-95, 0333-95
Folder contains job numbers 0331-95, 0332-95, 0333-95
Folder contains job numbers 0331-95, 0332-95, 0333-95
Folder contains job numbers 0334-95, 0335-95, 0336-95
Folder contains job numbers 0334-95, 0335-95, 0336-95; event detail
Folder contains job numbers 0334-95, 0335-95, 0336-95; event detail
Folder contains job numbers 0339-95, 0340-95, 0342-95; event details
Folder contains job numbers 0339-95, 0340-95, 0342-95
Folder contains job numbers 0339-95, 0340-95, 0342-95
Folder contains job numbers 0343-95, 0344-95, 0345-95
Folder contains job numbers 0343-95, 0344-95, 0345-95
Folder contains job numbers 0343-95, 0344-95, 0345-95
Folder contains job numbers 0346-95, 0347-95
Folder contains job numbers 0346-95, 0347-95
Folder contains job numbers 0348-95, 0349-95, 0350-95
Folder contains job numbers 0348-95, 0349-95, 0350-95
Folder contains job numbers 0348-95, 0349-95, 0350-95; event brochure and letter
Folder contains job numbers 0351-95, 0352-95, 0353-95
Folder contains job numbers 0351-95, 0352-95, 0353-95; letter
Folder contains job numbers 0351-95, 0352-95, 0353-95
Folder contains job numbers 0354-95, 0355-95, 0356-95
Folder contains job numbers 0354-95, 0355-95, 0356-95; letter with event details
Folder contains job numbers 0354-95, 0355-95, 0356-95
Folder contains job numbers 0358-95, 0359-95, 0360-95
Folder contains job numbers 0358-95, 0359-95, 0360-95
Folder contains job numbers 0358-95, 0359-95, 0360-95; letter
Two copies of letters requesting images, list of portraits, two pages of brochure details and notes, and invoice
Folder contains job numbers 0362-95, 0363-95, 0365-95
Folder contains job numbers 0362-95, 0363-95, 0365-95; letter with details
Folder contains job numbers 0362-95, 0363-95, 0365-95
Four signed consent letters
Folder contains job numbers 0369-95, 0370-95
Folder contains job numbers 0369-95, 0370-95
Folder contains job numbers 0373-95, 0377-95, 0378-95
Folder contains job numbers 0373-95, 0377-95, 0378-95
Folder contains job numbers 0373-95, 0377-95, 0378-95
Folder contains job numbers 0379-95, 0380-95
Folder contains job numbers 0379-95, 0380-95
Folder contains job numbers 0382-95, 0384-95, 0385-95; article copy
Folder contains job numbers 0382-95, 0384-95, 0385-95; letter
Folder contains job numbers 0382-95, 0384-95, 0385-95; letter with details
Folder contains job numbers 0388-95, 0389-95, 0391-95; letter with event details
Folder contains job numbers 0388-95, 0389-95, 0391-95
Folder contains job numbers 0388-95, 0389-95, 0391-95
Folder contains job numbers 0392-95, 0393-95; letter with event details
Folder contains job numbers 0392-95, 0393-95; fax page with notes, event schedule, handwritten schedule, notes
Folder contains job numbers 0394-95, 0395-95, 0396-95; letter
Folder contains job numbers 0394-95, 0395-95, 0396-95; event details, fax cover sheet
Folder contains job numbers 0394-95, 0395-95, 0396-95; letter with details
Folder contains job numbers 0397-95, 0398-95, 0399-95; letter
Folder contains job numbers 0397-95, 0398-95, 0399-95
Folder contains job numbers 0397-95, 0398-95, 0399-95
Folder contains job numbers 0400-95, 0401-95, 0402-95; letter with event details
Folder contains job numbers 0400-95, 0401-95, 0402-95; letter with event details
Folder contains job numbers 0400-95, 0401-95, 0402-95; letter with event details
Folder contains job numbers 0404-95, 0405-95, 0406-95
Folder contains job numbers 0404-95, 0405-95, 0406-95
Folder contains job numbers 0404-95, 0405-95, 0406-95; event details
Folder contains job numbers 0407-95, 0409-95, 0410-95; article copy
Folder contains job numbers 0407-95, 0409-95, 0410-95
Folder contains job numbers 0407-95, 0409-95, 0410-95
Folder contains job numbers 0411-95, 0412-95, 0413-95
Folder contains job numbers 0411-95, 0412-95, 0413-95
Folder contains job numbers 0411-95, 0412-95, 0413-95
Folder contains job numbers 0415-95, 0416-95, 0418-95; two pages with event details
Folder contains job numbers 0415-95, 0416-95, 0418-95
Folder contains job numbers 0415-95, 0416-95, 0418-95
Folder contains job numbers 0415-95, 0416-95, 0418-95
Folder contains job numbers 0419-95, 0421-95, 0422-95, 0423-95
Folder contains job numbers 0419-95, 0421-95, 0422-95, 0423-95
Folder contains job numbers 0419-95, 0421-95, 0422-95, 0423-95
Folder contains job numbers 0419-95, 0421-95, 0422-95, 0423-95
Folder contains job numbers 0424-95, 0427-95, 0428-95
Folder contains job numbers 0424-95, 0427-95, 0428-95; note
Folder contains job numbers 0424-95, 0427-95, 0428-95
Folder contains job numbers 0430-95, 0433-95, 0434-95
Folder contains job numbers 0430-95, 0433-95, 0434-95
Folder contains job numbers 0430-95, 0433-95, 0434-95
Folder contains job numbers 0436-95, 0439-95, 0440-95
Folder contains job numbers 0436-95, 0439-95, 0440-95
Folder contains job numbers 0436-95, 0439-95, 0440-95; notes, brochure copy
Folder contains job numbers 0441-95, 0442-95, 0443-95
Folder contains job numbers 0441-95, 0442-95, 0443-95
Folder contains job numbers 0441-95, 0442-95, 0443-95
Folder contains job numbers 0444-95, 0445-95, 0446-95
Folder contains job numbers 0444-95, 0445-95, 0446-95
Folder contains job numbers 0444-95, 0445-95, 0446-95
Folder contains job numbers 0447-95, 0448-95, 0449-95
Folder contains job numbers 0447-95, 0448-95, 0449-95
Folder contains job numbers 0447-95, 0448-95, 0449-95
Folder contains job numbers 0452-95, 0453-95, 0454-95
Folder contains job numbers 0452-95, 0453-95, 0454-95
Folder contains job numbers 0452-95, 0453-95, 0454-95
Folder contains job numbers 0458-95, 0459-95; Two pages of event details, article copy
Folder contains job numbers 0458-95, 0459-95
Folder contains job numbers 0462-95, 0463-95, 0465-95
Folder contains job numbers 0462-95, 0463-95, 0465-95; event details, program
Folder contains job numbers 0462-95, 0463-95, 0465-95
Folder contains job numbers 0467-95, 0469-95, 0470-95
Folder contains job numbers 0467-95, 0469-95, 0470-95
Folder contains job numbers 0467-95, 0469-95, 0470-95
Folder contains job numbers 0471-95, 0472-95, 0475-95
Folder contains job numbers 0471-95, 0472-95, 0475-95
Folder contains job numbers 0471-95, 0472-95, 0475-95
Folder contains job numbers 0479-95, 0480-95, 0481-95; event details
Folder contains job numbers 0479-95, 0480-95, 0481-95; letter
Folder contains job numbers 0479-95, 0480-95, 0481-95; letter, event details
Folder contains job numbers 0482-95, 0483-95, 0485-95
Folder contains job numbers 0482-95, 0483-95, 0485-95
Folder contains job numbers 0482-95, 0483-95, 0485-95
Folder contains job numbers 0487-95, 0489-95, 0490-95; letter
Folder contains job numbers 0487-95, 0489-95, 0490-95
Folder contains job numbers 0487-95, 0489-95, 0490-95; letter
Folder contains job numbers 0491-95, 0492-95, 0493-95; letter
Folder contains job numbers 0491-95, 0492-95, 0493-95; event details, copy of case summary
Folder contains job numbers 0491-95, 0492-95, 0493-95
Folder contains job numbers 0495-95, 0496-95, 0497-95
Folder contains job numbers 0495-95, 0496-95, 0497-95
Folder contains job numbers 0495-95, 0496-95, 0497-95
Folder contains job numbers 0498-95, 0499-95
Folder contains job numbers 0498-95, 0499-95
Folder contains job numbers 0505-95, 0508-95, 0510-95
Folder contains job numbers 0505-95, 0508-95, 0510-95
Folder contains job numbers 0505-95, 0508-95, 0510-95; contains negatives labeled for 0910-95 and 0911-95 match description for 0510-95
Folder contains job numbers 0511-95, 0512-95, 0513-95
Folder contains job numbers 0511-95, 0512-95, 0513-95
Folder contains job numbers 0511-95, 0512-95, 0513-95
Folder contains job numbers 0514-95, 0515-95, 0516-95; letter
Folder contains job numbers 0514-95, 0515-95, 0516-95
Folder contains job numbers 0514-95, 0515-95, 0516-95; event details
Folder contains job numbers 0517-95, 0518-95, 0519-95; letter
Folder contains job numbers 0517-95, 0518-95, 0519-95
Folder contains job numbers 0517-95, 0518-95, 0519-95
Folder contains job numbers 0520-95, 0521-95, 0522-95
Folder contains job numbers 0520-95, 0521-95, 0522-95; event details
Folder contains job numbers 0520-95, 0521-95, 0522-95
Folder contains job numbers 0523-95, 0524-95, 0526-95
Folder contains job numbers 0523-95, 0524-95, 0526-95
Folder contains job numbers 0523-95, 0524-95, 0526-95
Letter; Folder contains job numbers 0528-95, 0529-95, 0531-95
Folder contains job numbers 0528-95, 0529-95, 0531-95
Letter, map, conference agenda; Folder contains job numbers 0528-95, 0529-95, 0531-95
Folder contains job numbers 0532-95, 0533-95, 0534-95
Letter; Folder contains job numbers 0532-95, 0533-95, 0534-95
Folder contains job numbers 0532-95, 0533-95, 0534-95
Event details; Folder contains job numbers 0535-95, 0536-95, 0537-95
Folder contains job numbers 0535-95, 0536-95, 0537-95
Event details; Folder contains job numbers 0535-95, 0536-95, 0537-95
Folder contains 0540-95, 0541-95, 0542-95
Letter; Folder contains 0540-95, 0541-95, 0542-95
Letter; Folder contains 0540-95, 0541-95, 0542-95
Event details
Event details
Fax sheet; Folder contains job numbers 0552-95, 0553-95, 0554-95
Letter; Folder contains job numbers 0552-95, 0553-95, 0554-95
Folder contains job numbers 0552-95, 0553-95, 0554-95
Folder contains job numbers 0555-95, 0556-95, 0557-95
Folder contains job numbers 0555-95, 0556-95, 0557-95
Event details, Reception schedule; request for photographer
Folder contains job numbers 0555-95, 0556-95, 0557-95
Folder contains job numbers 0558-95, 0559-95, 0560-95
Copy of article, fax sheet; folder contains job numbers 0558-95, 0559-95, 0560-95
Folder contains job numbers 0558-95, 0559-95, 0560-95
Event schedule, fax sheet
Event schedule, fax sheet
Event schedule, two fax sheets, three pages guest list, folder contains 0567-95, 0568-95
Event notes, folder contains job numbers 0567-95, 0568-95
Invoice form
Invoice form
Folder contains job numbers 0573-95, 0574-95, 0575-95
Folder contains job numbers 0573-95, 0574-95, 0575-95
Folder contains job numbers 0573-95, 0574-95, 0575-95
Folder contains job numbers 0576-95, 0577-95, 0578-95
Folder contains job numbers 0576-95, 0577-95, 0578-95
Folder contains job numbers 0576-95, 0577-95, 0578-95
Folder contains job numbers 0579-95, 0580-95, 0581-95
Two pages event program; Folder contains job numbers 0579-95, 0580-95, 0581-95
Folder contains job numbers 0579-95, 0580-95, 0581-95
Folder contains job numbers 0583-95, 0584-95, 0585-95
Folder contains job numbers 0583-95, 0584-95, 0585-95
Folder contains job numbers 0583-95, 0584-95, 0585-95
Folder contains job numbers 0586-95, 0587-95, 0588-95
Event details; Folder contains job numbers 0586-95, 0587-95, 0588-95
Note; Folder contains job numbers 0586-95, 0587-95, 0588-95
Subject notes; Folder contains job numbers 0592-95, 0593-95, 0594-95
Subject notes; Folder contains job numbers 0592-95, 0593-95, 0594-95
Article, Signed consent form, fax sheet; Folder contains job numbers 0592-95, 0593-95, 0594-95
Folder contains job numbers 0596-95, 0597-95, 0598-95
Development note; Folder contains job numbers 0596-95, 0597-95, 0598-95
Subject notes; Folder contains job numbers 0596-95, 0597-95, 0598-95
Folder contains job numbers 0599-95, 0600-95, 0602-95
Development note; Folder contains job numbers 0599-95, 0600-95, 0602-95
Folder contains job numbers 0599-95, 0600-95, 0602-95
Fax sheet, subject details; Folder contains job numbers 0606-95, 0607-95, 0608-95
Note; Folder contains job numbers 0606-95, 0607-95, 0608-95
Subject profile, Folder contains job numbers 0606-95, 0607-95, 0608-95
Folder contains job numbers 0609-95, 0610-95, 0611-95
Folder contains job numbers 0609-95, 0610-95, 0611-95
Folder contains job numbers 0609-95, 0610-95, 0611-95
Subject details, Folder contains job numbers 0613-95, 0614-95, 0615-95
Folder contains job numbers 0613-95, 0614-95, 0615-95
Folder contains job numbers 0613-95, 0614-95, 0615-95
Folder contains job numbers 0613-95, 0614-95, 0615-95
Event program; Folder contains job numbers 0616-95, 0618-95, 0619-95
Photo request letter; Folder contains job numbers 0616-95, 0618-95, 0619-95
Folder contains job numbers 0616-95, 0618-95, 0619-95
Event details
Subject notes; Folder contains job numbers 0621-95, 0623-95, 0624-95
Folder contains job numbers 0621-95, 0623-95, 0624-95
Folder contains job numbers 0621-95, 0623-95, 0624-95
Folder contains job numbers 0625-95, 0626-95
Copy of article, Folder contains job numbers 0625-95, 0626-95
Folder contains job numbers 0629-95, 0630-95
Subject contact list, Fax sheet, Three pages article draft; Folder contains job numbers 0629-95, 0630-95
Folder contains job numbers 0632-95, 0634-95, 0635-95
Subject details; Folder contains job numbers 0632-95, 0634-95, 0635-95
Folder contains job numbers 0632-95, 0634-95, 0635-95
Folder contains job numbers 0636-95, 0637-95, 0638-95
Folder contains job numbers 0636-95, 0637-95, 0638-95
Subject details; Folder contains job numbers 0636-95, 0637-95, 0638-95
Folder contains job numbers 0639-95, 0640-95, 0641-95
Folder contains job numbers 0639-95, 0640-95, 0641-95
Folder contains job numbers 0639-95, 0640-95, 0641-95
Folder contains job numbers 0642-95, 0643-95, 0645-95
Subject details; Folder contains job numbers 0642-95, 0643-95, 0645-95
Folder contains job numbers 0642-95, 0643-95, 0645-95
Folder contains job numbers 0646-95, 0647-95, 0648-95
Folder contains job numbers 0646-95, 0647-95, 0648-95
Subject details; Folder contains job numbers 0646-95, 0647-95, 0648-95
Folder contains job numbers 0649-95, 0650-95, 0651-95
Folder contains job numbers 0649-95, 0650-95, 0651-95
News article; Folder contains job numbers 0649-95, 0650-95, 0651-95
Development note; Folder contains job numbers 0652-95, 0653-95, 0655-95
Folder contains job numbers 0652-95, 0653-95, 0655-95
Folder contains job numbers 0652-95, 0653-95, 0655-95
Subject details; Folder contains job numbers 0656-95, 0657-95, 0658-95
Subject details; Folder contains job numbers 0656-95, 0657-95, 0658-95
Two pages subject profile; Folder contains job numbers 0656-95, 0657-95, 0658-95
Event details; Folder contains job numbers 0659-95, 0661-95, 0663-95
Subject details; Folder contains job numbers 0659-95, 0661-95, 0663-95
Folder contains job numbers 0659-95, 0661-95, 0663-95
Folder contains job numbers 0664-95, 0666-95
Folder contains job numbers 0664-95, 0666-95
Folder contains job numbers 0664-95, 0666-95
Subject details; Folder contains job numbers 0667-95, 0668-95, 0669-95
Folder contains job numbers 0667-95, 0668-95, 0669-95
Folder contains job numbers 0667-95, 0668-95, 0669-95
Folder contains job numbers 0670-95, 0671-95
Subject details; Folder contains job numbers 0670-95, 0671-95
Folder contains job numbers 0675-95, 0676-95, 0677-95
Folder contains job numbers 0675-95, 0676-95, 0677-95
Folder contains job numbers 0675-95, 0676-95, 0677-95
Folder contains job numbers 0679-95, 0680-95
Event details; Folder contains job numbers 0679-95, 0680-95
Folder contains job number 0683-95, 0684-95, 0685-95
Folder contains job number 0683-95, 0684-95, 0685-95
Folder contains job number 0683-95, 0684-95, 0685-95
Folder contains job numbers 0687-95, 0688-95, 0690-95
Folder contains job numbers 0687-95, 0688-95, 0690-95
Folder contains job numbers 0687-95, 0688-95, 0690-95
Folder contain job numbers 0691-95, 0692-95, 0693-95, 0694-95
Folder contain job numbers 0691-95, 0692-95, 0693-95, 0694-95
Folder contain job numbers 0691-95, 0692-95, 0693-95, 0694-95
Folder contain job numbers 0691-95, 0692-95, 0693-95, 0694-95
Folder contains job numbers 0695-95, 0697-95
Folder contains job numbers 0695-95, 0697-95
Folder contains job numbers 0700-95, 0701-95
Folder contains job numbers 0700-95, 0701-95
Subject details, fax sheet, map
Folder contains job numbers 0703-95, 0704-95, 0705-95
Folder contains job numbers 0703-95, 0704-95, 0705-95
Folder contains job numbers 0703-95, 0704-95, 0705-95
Folder contains job numbers 0706-95, 0710-95, 0711-95
Subject details; Folder contains job numbers 0706-95, 0710-95, 0711-95
Folder contains job numbers 0706-95, 0710-95, 0711-95
Folder contains job numbers 0712-95, 0713-95
List of photos needed; Folder contains job numbers 0712-95, 0713-95
Folder contains 0715-95, 0716-95, 0717-95
Four pages subject profile; Folder contains 0715-95, 0716-95, 0717-95
Subject details; Folder contains 0715-95, 0716-95, 0717-95
Folder contains 0718-95, 0719-95, 0720-95
Folder contains 0718-95, 0719-95, 0720-95
Event details; Folder contains 0718-95, 0719-95, 0720-95
Event details, fax sheet
Event details
Folder contains 0724-95, 0726-95, 0727-95
Folder contains 0724-95, 0726-95, 0727-95
Folder contains 0724-95, 0726-95, 0727-95
Folder contains 0728-95, 0729-95, 0730-95
Folder contains 0728-95, 0729-95, 0730-95
Subject details; Folder contains 0728-95, 0729-95, 0730-95
Subject details; Folder contains 0728-95, 0729-95, 0730-95
Subject details; Folder contains job numbers 0731-95, 0732-95
Fax sheet Article draft; two pages of article; Folder contains job numbers 0731-95, 0732-95
Sheet of subject names
Folder contains job numbers 0734-95, 0735-95, 0737-95
Folder contains job numbers 0734-95, 0735-95, 0737-95
Subject profile; Folder contains job numbers 0734-95, 0735-95, 0737-95
Folder contains job numbers 0738-95, 0740-95, 0741-95
Folder contains job numbers 0738-95, 0740-95, 0741-95
Folder contains job numbers 0738-95, 0740-95, 0741-95
Folder contains job numbers 0742-95, 0743-95, 0745-95
Event detail; Folder contains job numbers 0742-95, 0743-95, 0745-95
Folder contains job numbers 0742-95, 0743-95, 0745-95
Folder contains job numbers 746-95, 0747-95, 0748-95
Folder contains job numbers 746-95, 0747-95, 0748-95
Folder contains job numbers 746-95, 0747-95, 0748-95
Five pages subject details
Folder contains job numbers 0752-95, 0754-95, 0755-95
Folder contains job numbers 0752-95, 0754-95, 0755-95
Folder contains job numbers 0752-95, 0754-95, 0755-95
Subject details, event details
Subject details, event details
Subject details, folder contains job numbers 0757-95, 0758-95, 0759-95
Folder contains job numbers 0757-95, 0758-95, 0759-95
Folder contains job numbers 0757-95, 0758-95, 0759-95
Folder contains job numbers 0760-95, 0762-95, 0763-95
Folder contains job numbers 0760-95, 0762-95, 0763-95
Folder contains job numbers 0760-95, 0762-95, 0763-95
Folder contains job numbers 0764-95, 0766-95
Folder contains job numbers 0764-95, 0766-95
Subject details; Folder contains job numbers 0770-95, 0771-95, 0772-95
Folder contains job numbers 0770-95, 0771-95, 0772-95
Folder contains job numbers 0770-95, 0771-95, 0772-95
Folder contains job numbers 0773-95, 0774-95, 0775-95
Folder contains job numbers 0773-95, 0774-95, 0775-95
Folder contains job numbers 0773-95, 0774-95, 0775-95
Subject details; Folder contains job numbers 0776-95, 0777-95, 0778-95
Subject details; Folder contains job numbers 0776-95, 0777-95, 0778-95
Folder contains job numbers 0776-95, 0777-95, 0778-95
Folder contains job numbers 0779-95, 0782-95
Folder contains job numbers 0779-95, 0782-95
Folder contains job numbers 0783-95, 0784-95, 0785-95
Folder contains job numbers 0783-95, 0784-95, 0785-95
Folder contains job numbers 0783-95, 0784-95, 0785-95
Folder contains job numbers 0783-95, 0784-95, 0785-95
Folder contains job numbers 0783-95, 0784-95, 0785-95
folder contains job numbers 0786-95, 0787-95; subject details; note from office of president requesting photographer for event
folder contains job numbers 0786-95, 0787-95; subject details
folder contains job number 0786-95, 0787-95
subject details
folder contains job numbers 0792-95, 0793-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0792-95, 0793-95
folder contains job numbers 0794-95, 0795-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0794-95, 0795-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0796-95, 0797-95
folder contains job numbers 0796-95, 0797-95
folder contains job number 0798-95, 0799-95
folder contains job number 0798-95, 0799-95
folder contains job number 0801-95, 0802-95, 0803-95
folder contains job number 0801-95, 0802-95, 0803-95; subject details
folder contains job number 0801-95, 0802-95, 0803-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0804-95, 0804-95, 0807-95
folder contains job numbers 0804-95, 0804-95, 0808-95
folder contains job numbers 0804-95, 0804-95, 0809-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0808-95, 0809-95
folder contains job numbers 0808-95, 0809-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0810-95, 0811-95
folder contains job numbers 0810-95, 0811-95
folder contains job numbers 0814-95, 0817-95A-C, 0818-95
folder contains job numbers 0814-95, 0817-95A-C, 0818-95
folder contains job numbers 0814-95, 0817-95A-C, 0818-95
folder contains job numbers 0814-95, 0817-95A-C, 0818-95
folder contains job numbers 0814-95, 0817-95A-C, 0818-95
folder contains job numbers 0819-95A-C, 0820-95
folder contains job numbers 0819-95A-C, 0820-95
folder contains job numbers 0819-95A-C, 0820-95
folder contains job numbers 0819-95A-C, 0820-95
folder contains job numbers 0822-95A-D, 0823-95 A-D
folder contains job numbers 0822-95A-D, 0823-95 A-D
folder contains job numbers 0822-95A-D, 0823-95 A-D
folder contains job numbers 0822-95A-D, 0823-95 A-D
folder contains job numbers 0822-95A-D, 0823-95 A-D
folder contains job numbers 0822-95A-D, 0823-95 A-D
folder contains job numbers 0822-95A-D, 0823-95 A-D
folder contains job numbers 0822-95A-D, 0823-95 A-D
folder contains job numbers 0824-95A-B, 0825-95
folder contains job numbers 0824-95A-B, 0825-95
folder contains job numbers 0824-95A-B, 0825-95
folder contains job numbers 0826-95A-C, 0828-95
folder contains job numbers 0826-95A-C, 0828-95
folder contains job numbers 0826-95A-C, 0828-95
folder contains job numbers 0826-95A-C, 0828-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0829-95, 0830-95, 0831-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0829-95, 0830-95, 0831-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0829-95, 0830-95, 0831-95
folder contains job numbers 0835-95, 0836-95, 0838-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0835-95, 0836-95, 0838-95
folder contains job numbers 0835-95, 0836-95, 0838-95
folder contains job numbers 0840-95, 0841-95, 0842-95
folder contains job numbers 0840-95, 0841-95, 0842-95
folder contains job numbers 0840-95, 0841-95, 0842-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0843-95, 0844-95
folder contains job numbers 0843-95, 0844-95
folder contains job numbers 0846-95, 0848-95
folder contains job numbers 0846-95, 0848-95
folder contains job numbers 0851-95, 0854-95, 0856-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0851-95, 0854-95, 0856-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0851-95, 0854-95, 0856-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0857-95, 0859-95, 0861-95
folder contains job numbers 0857-95, 0859-95, 0861-95
folder contains job numbers 0857-95, 0859-95, 0861-95
folder contains job numbers 0862-95A-C, 0863-95A-C, 0862-95A-D
folder contains job numbers 0862-95A-C, 0863-95A-C, 0862-95A-D
folder contains job numbers 0862-95A-C, 0863-95A-C, 0862-95A-D
folder contains job numbers 0862-95A-C, 0863-95A-C, 0862-95A-D
folder contains job numbers 0862-95A-C, 0863-95A-C, 0862-95A-D
folder contains job numbers 0862-95A-C, 0863-95A-C, 0862-95A-D
folder contains job numbers 0862-95A-C, 0863-95A-C, 0862-95A-D
folder contains job numbers 0862-95A-C, 0863-95A-C, 0862-95A-D
folder contains job numbers 0862-95A-C, 0863-95A-C, 0862-95A-D
folder contains job numbers 0862-95A-C, 0863-95A-C, 0862-95A-D
subject details
folder contains job numbers 0868-95A-C
folder contains job numbers 0868-95A-C
folder contains job numbers 0871-95, 0873-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0871-95, 0873-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0874-95, 0875-95
folder contains job numbers 0874-95, 0875-95
folder contains job numbers 0876-95, 0877-95
folder contains job numbers 0876-95, 0877-95
folder contains job numbers 0878-95, 0879-95, 0880-95
folder contains job numbers 0878-95, 0879-95, 0880-95
folder contains job numbers 0878-95, 0879-95, 0880-95
folder contains job number 0881-95, 0889-95, 0891-95; subject details
folder contains job number 0881-95, 0889-95, 0891-95; subject details
folder contains job number 0881-95, 0889-95, 0891-95
folder contains job numbers 0892-95A-D, 0893-95A-D, 0894-95A-D, 0895-95A-D
folder contains job numbers 0892-95A-D, 0893-95A-D, 0894-95A-D, 0895-95A-D
folder contains job numbers 0892-95A-D, 0893-95A-D, 0894-95A-D, 0895-95A-D
folder contains job numbers 0892-95A-D, 0893-95A-D, 0894-95A-D, 0895-95A-D
folder contains job numbers 0892-95A-D, 0893-95A-D, 0894-95A-D, 0895-95A-D
folder contains job numbers 0892-95A-D, 0893-95A-D, 0894-95A-D, 0895-95A-D
folder contains job numbers 0892-95A-D, 0893-95A-D, 0894-95A-D, 0895-95A-D
folder contains job numbers 0892-95A-D, 0893-95A-D, 0894-95A-D, 0895-95A-D
folder contains job numbers 0892-95A-D, 0893-95A-D, 0894-95A-D, 0895-95A-D
folder contains job numbers 0892-95A-D, 0893-95A-D, 0894-95A-D, 0895-95A-D
folder contains job numbers 0892-95A-D, 0893-95A-D, 0894-95A-D, 0895-95A-D
folder contains job numbers 0892-95A-D, 0893-95A-D, 0894-95A-D, 0895-95A-D
folder contains job numbers 0892-95A-D, 0893-95A-D, 0894-95A-D, 0895-95A-D
folder contains job numbers 0892-95A-D, 0893-95A-D, 0894-95A-D, 0895-95A-D
folder contains job numbers 0892-95A-D, 0893-95A-D, 0894-95A-D, 0895-95A-D
folder contains job numbers 0892-95A-D, 0893-95A-D, 0894-95A-D, 0895-95A-D
folder contains job numbers 0897-95, 0898-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0897-95, 0898-95
folder contains job numbers 0899-95A-B, 0900-95
folder contains job numbers 0899-95A-B, 0900-95
folder contains job numbers 0899-95A-B, 0900-95
folder contains job numbers 0901-95, 0902-95
folder contains job numbers 0901-95, 0902-95
folder contains job numbers 0906-95, 0907-95, 0908-95
folder contains job numbers 0906-95, 0907-95, 0908-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0906-95, 0907-95, 0908-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0909-95A-D, 0910-95, 0911-95
folder contains job numbers 0909-95A-D, 0910-95, 0911-95
folder contains job numbers 0909-95A-D, 0910-95, 0911-95
folder contains job numbers 0909-95A-D, 0910-95, 0911-95
folder contains job numbers 0909-95A-D, 0910-95, 0911-95
folder contains job numbers 0909-95A-D, 0910-95, 0911-95
folder contains job numbers 0912-95, 0913-95, 0916-95
folder contains job numbers 0912-95, 0913-95, 0916-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0912-95, 0913-95, 0916-95
folder contains job numbers 0918-95, 0919-95, 0920-95
folder contains job numbers 0918-95, 0919-95, 0920-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0918-95, 0919-95, 0920-95
folder contains job numbers 0921-95, 0922-95, 0923-95A-C
folder contains job numbers 0921-95, 0922-95, 0923-95A-C
folder contains job numbers 0921-95, 0922-95, 0923-95A-C
folder contains job numbers 0921-95, 0922-95, 0923-95A-C
folder contains job numbers 0921-95, 0922-95, 0923-95A-C
folder contains job numbers 0925-95, 0926-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0925-95, 0926-95
folder contains job numbers 0928-95, 0929-95, 0930-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0928-95, 0929-95, 0930-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0928-95, 0929-95, 0930-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0939-95, 0941-95, 0942-95
folder contains job numbers 0939-95, 0941-95, 0942-95
folder contains job numbers 0939-95, 0941-95, 0942-95
folder contains job numbers 0943-95, 0944-95, 0945-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0943-95, 0944-95, 0945-95
folder contains job numbers 0943-95, 0944-95, 0945-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0946-95, 0947-95. 0948-95
folder contains job numbers 0946-95, 0947-95. 0948-95
folder contains job numbers 0946-95, 0947-95. 0948-95
folder contains job numbers 0949-95A-D, 0951-95
folder contains job numbers 0949-95A-D, 0951-95
folder contains job numbers 0949-95A-D, 0951-95
folder contains job numbers 0949-95A-D, 0951-95
folder contains job numbers 0949-95A-D, 0951-95
subject details
folder contains job numbers 0955-95A-D, 0956-95, 0957-95
folder contains job numbers 0955-95A-D, 0956-95, 0957-95
folder contains job numbers 0955-95A-D, 0956-95, 0957-95
folder contains job numbers 0955-95A-D, 0956-95, 0957-95
folder contains job numbers 0955-95A-D, 0956-95, 0957-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0955-95A-D, 0956-95, 0957-95
folder contains job numbers 0959-95, 0960-95, 0961-95
folder contains job numbers 0959-95, 0960-95, 0961-95
folder contains job numbers 0959-95, 0960-95, 0961-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0962-95, 0963-95, 0965-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0962-95, 0963-95, 0965-95
folder contains job numbers 0962-95, 0963-95, 0965-95
folder contains job numbers 0968-95, 0970-95, 0971-95
folder contains job numbers 0968-95, 0970-95, 0971-95
folder contains job numbers 0968-95, 0970-95, 0971-95
folder contains job numbers 0972-95, 0973-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0972-95, 0973-95
folder contains job numbers 0974-95, 0975-95
folder contains job numbers 0974-95, 0975-95
folder contains job numbers 0976-95, 0977-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0976-95, 0977-95
folder contains job numbers 0978-95, 0979-95, 0983-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0978-95, 0979-95, 0983-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0978-95, 0979-95, 0983-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0984-95, 0985-95, 0986-95
folder contains job numbers 0984-95, 0985-95, 0986-95
folder contains job numbers 0984-95, 0985-95, 0986-95
subject details
folder contains job numbers 0988-95, 0989-95, 0990-95
folder contains job numbers 0988-95, 0989-95, 0990-95
folder contains job numbers 0988-95, 0989-95, 0990-95
folder contains job numbers 0992-95, 0993-95, 0994-95
folder contains job numbers 0992-95, 0993-95, 0994-95
folder contains job numbers 0992-95, 0993-95, 0994-95
folder contains job numbers 0995-95, 0996-95, 0997-95
folder contains job numbers 0995-95, 0996-95, 0997-95
folder contains job numbers 0995-95, 0996-95, 0997-95
folder contains job numbers 0998-95, 0999-95
folder contains job numbers 0998-95, 0999-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1001-95, 1002-95, 1003-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1001-95, 1002-95, 1003-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1001-95, 1002-95, 1003-95
folder contains job numbers 1004-95, 1005-95
folder contains job numbers 1004-95, 1005-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1007-95, 1008-95, 1009-95
folder contains job numbers 1007-95, 1008-95, 1009-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1007-95, 1008-95, 1009-95
folder contains job numbers 1010-95, 1011-95, 1015-95
folder contains job numbers 1010-95, 1011-95, 1015-95
folder contains job numbers 1010-95, 1011-95, 1015-95
folder contains job numbers 1017-95, 1018-95
folder contains job numbers 1017-95, 1018-96
folder contains job numbers 1019-95, 1020-95, 1021-95
folder contains job numbers 1019-95, 1020-95, 1021-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1019-95, 1020-95, 1021-95
folder contains job numbers 1022-95, 1023-95
folder contains job numbers 1022-95, 1023-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1025-95, 1026-95, 1027-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1025-95, 1026-95, 1027-95; sujects details
folder contains job numbers 1025-95, 1026-95, 1027-95
folder contains job numbers 1031-95, 1032-95
folder contains job numbers 1031-95, 1032-95
folder contains job numbers 1033-95, 1025-95, 1036-95
folder contains job numbers 1033-95, 1025-95, 1036-95
folder contains job numbers 1033-95, 1025-95, 1036-95
folder contains job numbers 1037-95, 1038-95
folder contains job numbers 1037-95, 1038-95
folder contains job numbers 1042-95, 1044-95, 1045-95
folder contains job numbers 1042-95, 1044-95, 1045-95
folder contains job numbers 1042-95, 1044-95, 1045-95
folder contains job numbers 1046-95, 1047-95, 1048-95
folder contains job numbers 1046-95, 1047-95, 1048-95
folder contains job numbers 1046-95, 1047-95, 1048-95
folder contains job numbers 1049-95, 1050-95, 1051-95
folder contains job numbers 1049-95, 1050-95, 1051-95
folder contains job numbers 1049-95, 1050-95, 1051-95
folder contains job numbers 1052-95, 1053-95
folder contains job numbers 1052-95, 1053-95; subjects details
folder contains job numbers 1054-95, 1056-95
folder contains job numbers 1054-95, 1056-95
folder contains job numbers 1057-95, 1058-95, 1059-95
folder contains job numbers 1057-95, 1058-95, 1059-95
folder contains job numbers 1057-95, 1058-95, 1059-95
folder contains job numbers 1060-95, 1061-95, 1062-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1060-95, 1061-95, 1062-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1060-95, 1061-95, 1062-95
folder contains job numbers 1063-95A-C, 1063-95, 1064-95
folder contains job numbers 1063-95A-C, 1063-95, 1064-95
folder contains job numbers 1063-95A-C, 1063-95, 1064-95
folder contains job numbers 1063-95A-C, 1063-95, 1064-95
folder contains job numbers 1063-95A-C, 1063-95, 1064-95
folder contains job numbers 1065-95, 1066-95, 1067-95
folder contains job numbers 1065-95, 1066-95, 1067-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1065-95, 1066-95, 1067-95
folder contains job numbers 1068-95, 1069-95, 1072-95
folder contains job numbers 1068-95, 1069-95, 1072-95
folder contains job numbers 1068-95, 1069-95, 1072-95
folder contains job numbers 1073-95, 1074-95, 1075-95
folder contains job numbers 1073-95, 1074-95, 1075-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1073-95, 1074-95, 1075-95
folder contains job numbers 1076-95, 1077-95, 1078-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1076-95, 1077-95, 1078-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1076-95, 1077-95, 1078-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1079-95, 1080-95, 1084-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1079-95, 1080-95, 1084-95
folder contains job numbers 1079-95, 1080-95, 1084-95
folder contains job numbers 1086-95, 1088-95, 1089-95
folder contains job numbers 1086-95, 1088-95, 1089-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1086-95, 1088-95, 1089-95
folder contains job numbers 1090-95, 1091-95, 1092-95
folder contains job numbers 1090-95, 1091-95, 1092-95
folder contains job numbers 1090-95, 1091-95, 1092-95
folder contains job numbers 1094-95, 1095-95, 1096-95
folder contains job numbers 1094-95, 1095-95, 1096-95
folder contains job numbers 1094-95, 1095-95, 1096-95
folder contains job numbers 1099-95, 1100-95
folder contains job numbers 1099-95, 1100-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1101-95, 1102-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1101-95, 1102-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1103-95, 1104-95; subject notes
folder contains job numbers 1103-95, 1104-95; subject notes
folder contains job numbers 1105-95, 1106-95, 1107-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1105-95, 1106-95, 1107-95
folder contains job numbers 1105-95, 1106-95, 1107-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1108-95, 1109-95
folder contains job numbers 1108-95, 1109-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1111-95, 1113-95, 1114-95
folder contains job numbers 1111-95, 1113-95, 1114-95
folder contains job numbers 1111-95, 1113-95, 1114-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1115-95, 1116-95, 1117-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1115-95, 1116-95, 1117-95
folder contains job numbers 1115-95, 1116-95, 1117-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1118-95, 1120-95, 1121-95
folder contains job numbers 1118-95, 1120-95, 1121-95
folder contains job numbers 1118-95, 1120-95, 1121-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1122-95, 1123-95, 1125-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1122-95, 1123-95, 1125-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1122-95, 1123-95, 1125-95
folder contains job numbers 1126-95, 1127-95, 1128-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1126-95, 1127-95, 1128-95
folder contains job numbers 1126-95, 1127-95, 1128-95
folder contains job numbers 1129-95, 1130-95, 1131-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1129-95, 1130-95, 1131-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1129-95, 1130-95, 1131-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1132-95, 1135-95, 1136-95
folder contains job numbers 1132-95, 1135-95, 1136-95
folder contains job numbers 1132-95, 1135-95, 1136-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1137-95, 1138-95
folder contains job numbers 1137-95, 1138-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1140-95, 1141-95
folder contains job numbers 1140-95, 1141-95
folder contains job numbers 1142-95, 1143-95, 1145-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1142-95, 1143-95, 1145-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1142-95, 1143-95, 1145-95
folder contains job numbers 1146-95, 1149-95, 1150-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1146-95, 1149-95, 1150-95
folder contains job numbers 1146-95, 1149-95, 1150-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1151-95, 1152-95, 1154-95
folder contains job numbers 1151-95, 1152-95, 1154-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1151-95, 1152-95, 1154-95
subject details
subject details
folder contains job numbers 1157-95, 1158-95, 1159-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1157-95, 1158-95, 1159-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1157-95, 1158-95, 1159-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1160-95, 1160-95, 1161-95
folder contains job numbers 1160-95, 1160-95, 1161-95
folder contains job numbers 1160-95, 1160-95, 1161-95
folder contains job numbers 1162-95, 1163-95, 1164-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1162-95, 1163-95, 1164-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1162-95, 1163-95, 1164-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1165-95, 1167-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1165-95, 1167-95
folder contains job numbers 1168-95, 1169-95, 1170-95
folder contains job numbers 1168-95, 1169-95, 1170-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1168-95, 1169-95, 1170-95
folder contains job numbers 1172-95, 1173-95, 1174-95
folder contains job numbers 1172-95, 1173-95, 1174-95
folder contains job numbers 1172-95, 1173-95, 1174-95
subject details
folder contains job numbers 1176-95, 1177-95, 1178-95
folder contains job numbers 1176-95, 1177-95, 1178-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1176-95, 1177-95, 1178-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1181-95, 1182-95, 1184-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1181-95, 1182-95, 1184-95
folder contains job numbers 1181-95, 1182-95, 1184-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1184-95, 1186-95, 1188-95
folder contains job numbers 1184-95, 1186-95, 1188-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1184-95, 1186-95, 1188-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1190-95, 1192-95, 1194-95
folder contains job numbers 1190-95, 1192-95, 1194-95
folder contains job numbers 1190-95, 1192-95, 1194-95
folder contains job numbers 1198-95A, 1198-95B, 1201-95
folder contains job numbers 1198-95A, 1198-95B, 1201-95
folder contains job numbers 1198-95A, 1198-95B, 1201-95
folder contains job numbers 1203-95, 1208-95, 1209-95
folder contains job numbers 1203-95, 1208-95, 1209-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1203-95, 1208-95, 1209-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1210-95, 1211-95, 1213-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1210-95, 1211-95, 1213-95
folder contains job numbers 1210-95, 1211-95, 1213-95
folder contains job numbers 1214-95, 1217-95, 1218-95
folder contains job numbers 1214-95, 1217-95, 1218-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1214-95, 1217-95, 1218-95
subject details
folder contains job numbers 1220-95, 1221-95, 1222-95
folder contains job numbers 1220-95, 1221-95, 1222-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1220-95, 1221-95, 1222-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1223-95, 1224-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1223-95, 1224-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1226-95, 1227-95, 1228-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1226-95, 1227-95, 1228-95
folder contains job numbers 1226-95, 1227-95, 1228-95
folder contains job numbers 1230-95, 1231-95, 1232-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1230-95, 1231-95, 1232-95
folder contains job numbers 1230-95, 1231-95, 1232-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1233-95, 1235-95, 1236-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1233-95, 1235-95, 1236-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1233-95, 1235-95, 1236-95
folder contains job numbers 1237-95, 1238-95, 1239-95A-E; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1237-95, 1238-95, 1239-95A-E
folder contains job numbers 1237-95, 1238-95, 1239-95A-E
folder contains job numbers 1237-95, 1238-95, 1239-95A-E
folder contains job numbers 1237-95, 1238-95, 1239-95A-E
folder contains job numbers 1237-95, 1238-95, 1239-95A-E
folder contains job numbers 1237-95, 1238-95, 1239-95A-E
folder contains job numbers 1243-95, 1244-95, 1245-95
folder contains job numbers 1243-95, 1244-95, 1245-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1243-95, 1244-95, 1245-95
folder contains job numbers 1246-95, 1247-95, 1248-95
folder contains job numbers 1246-95, 1247-95, 1248-95
folder contains job numbers 1246-95, 1247-95, 1248-95
subject details
folder contains job numbers 1250-95, 1251-95A-K, 1252-95
folder contains job numbers 1250-95, 1251-95A-K, 1252-95
folder contains job numbers 1250-95, 1251-95A-K, 1252-95
folder contains job numbers 1250-95, 1251-95A-K, 1252-95
folder contains job numbers 1250-95, 1251-95A-K, 1252-95
folder contains job numbers 1250-95, 1251-95A-K, 1252-95
folder contains job numbers 1250-95, 1251-95A-K, 1252-95
folder contains job numbers 1250-95, 1251-95A-K, 1252-95
folder contains job numbers 1250-95, 1251-95A-K, 1252-95
folder contains job numbers 1250-95, 1251-95A-K, 1252-95
folder contains job numbers 1250-95, 1251-95A-K, 1252-95
folder contains job numbers 1250-95, 1251-95A-K, 1252-95
folder contains job numbers 1250-95, 1251-95A-K, 1252-95
folder contains job numbers 1256-95, 1257-95, 1259-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1256-95, 1257-95, 1259-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1256-95, 1257-95, 1259-95
folder contains job numbers 1260-95, 1261-95, 1262-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1260-95, 1261-95, 1262-95
folder contains job numbers 1260-95, 1261-95, 1262-95
folder contains job numbers 1264-95, 1265-95, 1266-95
folder contains job numbers 1264-95, 1265-95, 1266-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1264-95, 1265-95, 1266-95
folder contains job numbers 1268-95, 1268-95, 1269-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1268-95, 1268-95, 1269-95
folder contains job numbers 1268-95, 1268-95, 1269-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1271-95, 1273-95, 1278-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1271-95, 1273-95, 1278-95
folder contains job numbers 1271-95, 1273-95, 1278-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1281-95, 1282-95, 1284-95
folder contains job numbers 1281-95, 1282-95, 1284-95
folder contains job numbers 1281-95, 1282-95, 1284-95
folder contains job numbers 1285-95, 1286-95, 1288-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1285-95, 1286-95, 1288-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1285-95, 1286-95, 1288-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1289-95, 1290-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1289-95, 1290-95
subject details
folder contains job numbers 1292-95, 1294-95, 1295-95
folder contains job numbers 1292-95, 1294-95, 1295-95
folder contains job numbers 1292-95, 1294-95, 1295-95
folder contains job numbers 1296-96, 1297-95
folder contains job numbers 1296-95, 1297-95
folder contains job numbers 1302-95, 1303-95, 1304-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1302-95, 1303-95, 1304-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1302-95, 1303-95, 1304-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1305-95, 1306-95, 1307-95
folder contains job numbers 1305-95, 1306-95, 1307-95
folder contains job numbers 1305-95, 1306-95, 1307-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1310-95, 1311-95, 1314-95
folder contains job numbers 1310-95, 1311-95, 1314-95
folder contains job numbers 1310-95, 1311-95, 1314-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1316-95, 1317-95, 1318-95
folder contains job numbers 1316-95, 1317-95, 1318-95
folder contains job numbers 1316-95, 1317-95, 1318-95
folder contains job numbers 1319-95, 1320-95, 1322-95
folder contains job numbers 1319-95, 1320-95, 1322-95
folder contains job numbers 1319-95, 1320-95, 1322-95
folder contains job numbers 1323-95, 1324-95, 1326-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1323-95, 1324-95, 1326-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1323-95, 1324-95, 1326-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1328-95, 1329-95, 1330-95
folder contains job numbers 1328-95, 1329-95, 1330-95
folder contains job numbers 1328-95, 1329-95, 1330-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1331-95, 1332-95, 1333-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1331-95, 1332-95, 1333-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1331-95, 1332-95, 1333-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1334-95, 1335-95, 1336-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1334-95, 1335-95, 1336-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1334-95, 1335-95, 1336-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1337-95, 1338-95, 1339-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1337-95, 1338-95, 1339-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1337-95, 1338-95, 1339-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1340-95, 1341-95, 1342-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1340-95, 1341-95, 1342-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1340-95, 1341-95, 1342-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1343-5, 1345-95, 1346-95
folder contains job numbers 1343-5, 1345-95, 1346-95
folder contains job numbers 1343-5, 1345-95, 1346-95
folder contains job numbers 1347-95, 1348-95, 1349-95
folder contains job numbers 1347-95, 1348-95, 1349-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1347-95, 1348-95, 1349-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1350-95, 1352-95, 1353-95
folder contains job numbers 1350-95, 1352-95, 1353-95
folder contains job numbers 1350-95, 1352-95, 1353-95
folder contains job number 1354-95, 1355-95; subject details
folder contains job number 1354-95, 1355-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1356-95, 1358-95, 1359-95
folder contains job numbers 1356-95, 1358-95, 1359-95
folder contains job numbers 1356-95, 1358-95, 1359-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1360-95, 1361-95
folder contains job numbers 1360-95, 1361-95
folder contains job numbers 1362-95, 1363-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1362-95, 1363-95
folder contains job numbers 1364-95, 1366-95, 1367-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1364-95, 1366-95, 1367-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1364-95, 1366-95, 1367-95
folder contains job numbers 1369-95, 1370-95, 1371-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1369-95, 1370-95, 1371-95
folder contains job numbers 1369-95, 1370-95, 1371-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1372-95, 1373-95, 1374-95
folder contains job numbers 1372-95, 1373-95, 1374-95
folder contains job numbers 1372-95, 1373-95, 1374-95
folder contains job numbers 1376-95, 1377-95, 1378-95
folder contains job numbers 1376-95, 1377-95, 1378-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1376-95, 1377-95, 1378-95
folder contains job numbers 1379-95, 1380-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1379-95, 1380-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1383-95, 1384-95, 1384-95A; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1383-95, 1384-95, 1384-95A; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1383-95, 1384-95, 1384-95A; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1385-95, 1386-95, 1387-95
folder contains job numbers 1385-95, 1386-95, 1387-95
folder contains job numbers 1385-95, 1386-95, 1387-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1388-95, 1389-95, 1391-95
folder contains job numbers 1388-95, 1389-95, 1391-95
folder contains job numbers 1388-95, 1389-95, 1391-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1395-95, 1398-95, 1399-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1395-95, 1398-95, 1399-95
folder contains job numbers 1395-95, 1398-95, 1399-95
folder contains job numbers 1400-95, 1401-95, 1402-95
folder contains job numbers 1400-95, 1401-95, 1402-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1400-95, 1401-95, 1402-95
folder contains job numbers 1403-95, 1404-95, 1406-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1403-95, 1404-95, 1406-95
folder contains job numbers 1403-95, 1404-95, 1406-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1409-95, 1410-95, 1414-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1409-95, 1410-95, 1414-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1409-95, 1410-95, 1414-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1416-95, 1417-95, 1419-95
folder contains job numbers 1416-95, 1417-95, 1419-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1416-95, 1417-95, 1419-95
folder contains job numbers 1422-95, 1423-95, 1424-95
folder contains job numbers 1422-95, 1423-95, 1424-95
folder contains job numbers 1422-95, 1423-95, 1424-95
folder contains job numbers 1425-95, 1428-95, 1432-95
folder contains job numbers 1425-95, 1428-95, 1432-95
folder contains job numbers 1425-95, 1428-95, 1432-95
folder contains job numbers 1436-95, 1437-95, 1438-95A-E
folder contains job numbers 1436-95, 1437-95, 1438-95A-E
folder contains job numbers 1436-95, 1437-95, 1438-95A-E
folder contains job numbers 1436-95, 1437-95, 1438-95A-E
folder contains job numbers 1436-95, 1437-95, 1438-95A-E
folder contains job numbers 1436-95, 1437-95, 1438-95A-E
folder contains job numbers 1436-95, 1437-95, 1438-95A-E
folder contains job numbers 1439-95, 1446-95, 1447-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1439-95, 1446-95, 1447-95
folder contains job numbers 1439-95, 1446-95, 1447-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1448-95, 1449-95, 1453-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1448-95, 1449-95, 1453-95
folder contains job numbers 1448-95, 1449-95, 1453-95
folder contains job numbers 1459-95, 1460-95, 1463-95
folder contains job numbers 1459-95, 1460-95, 1463-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1459-95, 1460-95, 1463-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1476-95, 1488-95, 1489-95; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1476-95, 1488-95, 1489-95
folder contains job numbers 1476-95, 1488-95, 1489-95
folder contains job numbers 1490-95, 1491-95, 1492-95
folder contains job numbers 1490-95, 1491-95, 1492-95
folder contains job numbers 1490-95, 1491-95, 1492-95
folder contains job numbers 0001-96, 0003-96, 0004-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0001-96, 0003-96, 0004-96
folder contains job numbers 0001-96, 0003-96, 0004-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0007-96, 0009-96, 0010-96
folder contains job numbers 0007-96, 0009-96, 0010-96
folder contains job numbers 0007-96, 0009-96, 0010-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0011-96, 0012-96, 0013-96
folder contains job numbers 0011-96, 0012-96, 0013-96
folder contains job numbers 0011-96, 0012-96, 0013-96
folder contains job numbers 0013-96, 0014-96, 0015-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0013-96, 0014-96, 0015-96
folder contains job numbers 0013-96, 0014-96, 0015-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0016-96, 0017-96, 0018-96
folder contains job numbers 0016-96, 0017-96, 0018-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0016-96, 0017-96, 0018-96
folder contains job numbers 0019-96, 0022-96, 0023-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0019-96, 0022-96, 0023-96
folder contains job numbers 0019-96, 0022-96, 0023-96
folder contains job numbers 0024-96, 0025-96, 0026-96
folder contains job numbers 0024-96, 0025-96, 0026-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0024-96, 0025-96, 0026-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0027-96, 0028-96
folder contains job numbers 0027-96, 0028-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0031-96, 0032-96, 0033-96
folder contains job numbers 0031-96, 0032-96, 0033-96
folder contains job numbers 0031-96, 0032-96, 0033-96
folder contains job numbers 0035-96, 0036-96, 0037-96
folder contains job numbers 0035-96, 0036-96, 0037-96
folder contains job numbers 0035-96, 0036-96, 0037-96
folder contains job numbers 0037-96, 0038-96, 0039-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0037-96, 0038-96, 0039-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0037-96, 0038-96, 0039-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0040-96, 0041-96, 0041-96
folder contains job numbers 0040-96, 0041-96, 0041-96
folder contains job numbers 0040-96, 0041-96, 0041-96
folder contains job numbers 0042-96, 0043-96, 0044-96
folder contains job numbers 0042-96, 0043-96, 0044-96
folder contains job numbers 0042-96, 0043-96, 0044-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0046-96, 0048-96, 0049-96
folder contains job numbers 0046-96, 0048-96, 0049-96
folder contains job numbers 0046-96, 0048-96, 0049-96
folder contains job numbers 0050-96, 0051-96, 0052-96
folder contains job numbers 0050-96, 0051-96, 0052-96
folder contains job numbers 0050-96, 0051-96, 0052-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0054-96. 0055-96, 0056-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0054-96, 0055-96, 0056-96
folder contains job numbers 0054-96, 0055-96, 0056-96
folder contains job numbers 0057-96, 0058-96, 0059-96
folder contains job numbers 0057-96, 0058-96, 0059-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0057-96, 0058-96, 0059-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0061-96, 0062-96, 0063-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0061-96, 0062-96, 0063-96
folder contains job numbers 0061-96, 0062-96, 0063-96
folder contains job numbers 0064-96, 0067-96, 0068-96
folder contains job numbers 0064-96, 0067-96, 0068-96
folder contains job numbers 0064-96, 0067-96, 0068-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0069-96, 0070-96, 0071-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0069-96, 0070-96, 0071-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0069-96, 0070-96, 0071-96
folder contains job numbers 0072-96, 0073-96, 0074-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0072-96, 0073-96, 0074-96
folder contains job numbers 0072-96, 0073-96, 0074-96
folder conatins job numbers 0075-96, 0076-96
folder contains job numbers 0075-96, 0076-96
subject details
folder contains job numbers 0078-96, 0079-96, 0080-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0078-96, 0079-96, 0080-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0078-96, 0079-96, 0080-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0081-96, 0082-96, 0083-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0081-96, 0082-96, 0083-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0081-96, 0082-96, 0083-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0084-96, 0086-96, 0087-96
folder contains job numbers 0084-96, 0086-96, 0087-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0084-96, 0086-96, 0087-96
folder contains job numbers 0087-96, 0089-96, 0091-96
folder contains job numbers 0087-96, 0089-96, 0091-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0087-96, 0089-96, 0091-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0093-96, 0094-96, 0096-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0093-96, 0094-96, 0096-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0093-96, 0094-96, 0096-96
folder contains job numbers 0097-96, 0098-96, 0099-96
folder contains job numbers 0097-96, 0098-96, 0099-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0097-96, 0098-96, 0099-96
folder contains job numbers 0101-96, 0103-96, 0104-96
folder contains job numbers 0101-96, 0103-96, 0104-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0101-96, 0103-96, 0104-96
folder contains job numbers 0105-96, 0106-96, 0107-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0105-96, 0106-96, 0107-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0105-96, 0106-96, 0107-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0108-96, 0110-96, 0111-96
folder contains job numbers 0108-96, 0110-96, 0111-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0108-96, 0110-96, 0111-96
folder contains job numbers 0112-96, 0113-96, 0113-96
folder contains job numbers 0112-96, 0113-96, 0113-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0112-96, 0113-96, 0113-96
folder contains job numbers 0114-96, 0118-96, 0120-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0114-96, 0118-96, 0120-96
folder contains job numbers 0114-96, 0118-96, 0120-96
folder contains job numbers 0121-96, 0122-96, 0123-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0121-96, 0122-96, 0123-96
folder contains job numbers 0121-96, 0122-96, 0123-96
folder contains job numbers 0124-96, 0125-96
folder contains job numbers 0124-96, 0125-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0128-96, 0130-96, 0132-96
folder contains job numbers 0128-96, 0130-96, 0132-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0128-96, 0130-96, 0131-96
folder contains job numbers 0133-96, 0134-96, 0135-96
folder contains job numbers 0133-96, 0134-96, 0135-96
folder contains job numbers 0133-96, 0134-96, 0135-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0136-96, 0137-96, 0138-96
folder contains job numbers 0136-96, 0137-96, 0138-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0136-96, 0137-96, 0138-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0156-96, 0157-96, 0158-96
folder contains job numbers 0156-96, 0157-96, 0158-96
folder contains job numbers 0156-96, 0157-96, 0158-96
folder contains job numbers 0159-96, 0160-96, 0161-96
folder contains job numbers 0159-96, 0160-96, 0161-96
folder contains job numbers 0159-96, 0160-96, 0161-96
folder contains job numbers 0162-96, 0163-96, 0164-96
folder contains job numbers 0162-96, 0163-96, 0164-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0162-96, 0163-96, 0164-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0165-96, 0166-96, 0167-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0165-96, 0166-96, 0167-96
folder contains job numbers 0165-96, 0166-96, 0167-96
folder contains job numbers 0168-96, 0170-96, 0171-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0168-96, 0170-96, 0171-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0168-96, 0170-96, 0171-96
folder contains job numbers 0172-96, 0173-96, 0174-96
folder contains job numbers 0172-96, 0173-96, 0174-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0172-96, 0173-96, 0174-96
folder contains job numbers 0176-96, 0177-96, 0178-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0176-96, 0177-96, 0178-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0176-96, 0177-96, 0178-96
folder contains job numbers 0179-96, 0181-96, 0182-96
folder contains job numbers 0179-96, 0181-96, 0182-96
folder contains job numbers 0179-96, 0181-96, 0182-96
folder contains job numbers 0183-96, 0184-96, 0185-96
folder contains job numbers 0183-96, 0184-96, 0185-96
folder contains job numbers 0183-96, 0184-96, 0185-96
folder contains job numbers 0186-96, 0187-96, 0188-96
folder contains job numbers 0186-96, 0187-96, 0188-96
folder contains job numbers 0186-96, 0187-96, 0188-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0190-96, 0191-96, 0192-96
folder contains job numbers 0190-96, 0191-96, 0192-96
folder contains job numbers 0190-96, 0191-96, 0192-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0193-96, 0194-96, 0195-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0193-96, 0194-96, 0195-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0193-96, 0194-96, 0195-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0196-96, 0197-96, 0199-96
folder contains job numbers 0196-96, 0197-96, 0199-96
folder contains job numbers 0196-96, 0197-96, 0199-96
folder contains job numbers 0200-96, 0202-96, 0203-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0200-96, 0202-96, 0203-96
folder contains job numbers 0200-96, 0202-96, 0203-96
folder contains job numbers 0205-96, 0206-96, 0207-96
folder contains job numbers 0205-96, 0206-96, 0207-96
folder contains job numbers 0205-96, 0206-96, 0207-96
folder contains job numbers 0208-96, 0209-96, 0211-96
folder contains job numbers 0208-96, 0209-96, 0211-96
folder contains job numbers 0208-96, 0209-96, 0211-96
folder contains job numbers 0213-96, 0214-96, 0215-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0213-96, 0214-96, 0215-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0213-96, 0214-96, 0215-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0216-96, 0217-96, 0218-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0216-96, 0217-96, 0218-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0216-96, 0217-96, 0218-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0219-96, 0221-96, 0225-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0219-96, 0221-96, 0225-96
folder contains job numbers 0219-96, 0221-96, 0225-96
folder contains job numbers 0226-96, 0228-96, 0229-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0226-96, 0228-96, 0229-96
folder contains job numbers 0226-96, 0228-96, 0229-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0230-96, 0231-96, 0232-96
folder contains job numbers 0230-96, 0231-96, 0232-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0230-96, 0231-96, 0232-96
folder contains job numbers 0235-96, 0237-96, 0238-96
folder contains job numbers 0235-96, 0237-96, 0238-96
folder contains job numbers 0235-96, 0237-96, 0238-96
folder contains job numbers 0240-96, 0241-96, 0242-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0240-96, 0241-96, 0242-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0240-96, 0241-96, 0242-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0246-96, 0249-96, 0250-96
folder contains job numbers 0246-96, 0249-96, 0250-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0246-96, 0249-96, 0250-96
folder contains job numbers 0251-96, 0252-96, 0255-96
folder contains job numbers 0251-96, 0252-96, 0255-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0251-96, 0252-96, 0255-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0256-96, 0256-96, 0257-96
folder contains job numbers 0256-96, 0256-96, 0257-97
folder contains job numbers 0256-96, 0256-96, 0257-98
folder contains job numbers 0258-96, 0259-96, 0261-96A, 0261-96B
folder contains job numbers 0258-96, 0259-96, 0261-96A, 0261-96B; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0258-96, 0259-96, 0261-96A, 0261-96B
folder contains job numbers 0258-96, 0259-96, 0261-96A, 0261-96B
folder contains job numbers 0262-96, 0263-96, 0264-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0262-96, 0263-96, 0264-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0262-96, 0263-96, 0264-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0265-96, 0266-96, 0267-96
folder contains job numbers 0265-96, 0266-96, 0267-96
folder contains job numbers 0265-96, 0266-96, 0267-96
folder contains job numbers 0268-96, 0269-96, 0272-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0268-96, 0269-96, 0272-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0268-96, 0269-96, 0272-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0273-96, 0274-96, 0276-96
folder contains job numbers 0273-96, 0274-96, 0276-96
folder contains job numbers 0273-96, 0274-96, 0276-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0279-96, 0280-96, 0281-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0279-96, 0280-96, 0281-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0279-96, 0280-96, 0281-96
folder contains job numbers 0283-96, 0284-96, 0284-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0283-96, 0284-96, 0284-96
folder contains job numbers 0283-96, 0284-96, 0284-96
folder contains job numbers 0285-96, 0286-96, 0287-96
folder contains job numbers 0285-96, 0286-96, 0287-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0285-96, 0286-96, 0287-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0288-96, 0289-96, 0290-96
folder contains job numbers 0288-96, 0289-96, 0290-96
folder contains job numbers 0288-96, 0289-96, 0290-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0291-96, 0292-96, 0294-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0291-96, 0292-96, 0294-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0291-96, 0292-96, 0294-96
folder contains job numbers 0295-96, 0296-96, 0297-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0295-96, 0296-96, 0297-96
folder contains job numbers 0295-96, 0296-96, 0297-96
folder contains job numbers 0297-96, 0298-96, 0299-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0297-96, 0298-96, 0299-96
folder contains job numbers 0297-96, 0298-96, 0299-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0300-96, 0301-96, 0303-96
folder contains job numbers 0300-96, 0301-96, 0303-96
folder contains job numbers 0300-96, 0301-96, 0303-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0304-96, 0305-96, 0306-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0304-96, 0305-96, 0306-96
folder contains job numbers 0304-96, 0305-96, 0306-96
folder contains job numbers 0307-96, 0308-96, 0309-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0307-96, 0308-96, 0309-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0307-96, 0308-96, 0309-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0310-96, 0311-96, 0312-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0310-96, 0311-96, 0312-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0310-96, 0311-96, 0312-96
folder contains job numbers 0313-96, 0314-96, 0315-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0313-96, 0314-96, 0315-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0313-96, 0314-96, 0315-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0316-96, 0317-96, 0318-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0316-96, 0317-96, 0318-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0316-96, 0317-96, 0318-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0319-96, 0321-96, 0322-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0319-96, 0321-96, 0322-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0319-96, 0321-96, 0322-96
folder contains job numbers 0323-96, 0325-96, 0326-96
folder contains job numbers 0323-96, 0325-96, 0326-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0323-96, 0325-96, 0326-96
folder contains job numbers 0327-96, 0328-96, 0329-96
folder contains job numbers 0327-96, 0328-96, 0329-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0327-96, 0328-96, 0329-96
folder contains job numbers 0330-96, 0331-96, 0332-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0330-96, 0331-96, 0332-96
folder contains job numbers 0330-96, 0331-96, 0332-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0333-96, 0334-96, 0335-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0333-96, 0334-96, 0335-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0333-96, 0334-96, 0335-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0336-96, 0337-96, 0339-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0336-96, 0337-96, 0339-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0336-96, 0337-96, 0339-96
folder contains job numbers 0340-96, 0341-96, 0343-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0340-96, 0341-96, 0343-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0340-96, 0341-96, 0343-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0345-96, 0347-96, 0348-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0345-96, 0347-96, 0348-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0345-96, 0347-96, 0348-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0349-96, 0350-96, 0351-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0349-96, 0350-96, 0351-96
folder contains job numbers 0349-96, 0350-96, 0351-96
folder contains job numbers 0352-96, 0353-96, 0355-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0352-96, 0353-96, 0355-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0352-96, 0353-96, 0355-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0356-96, 0357-96, 0357-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0356-96, 0357-96, 0357-96
folder contains job numbers 0356-96, 0357-96, 0357-96
folder contains job numbers 0359-96, 0360-96
folder contains job numbers 0359-96, 0360-96
folder contains job numbers 0361-96, 0362-96, 0363-96
folder contains job numbers 0361-96, 0362-96, 0363-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0361-96, 0362-96, 0363-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0364-96, 0365-96, 0366-96
folder contains job numbers 0364-96, 0365-96, 0366-96
folder contains job numbers 0364-96, 0365-96, 0366-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0367-96, 0370-96, 0371-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0367-96, 0370-96, 0371-96
folder contains job numbers 0367-96, 0370-96, 0371-96
folder contains job numbers 0373-96, 0375-96
folder contains job numbers 0373-96, 0375-96
subject details
folder contains job numbers 0377-96, 0379-96, 0380-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0377-96, 0379-96, 0380-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0377-96, 0379-96, 0380-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0381-96, 0382-96, 0383-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0381-96, 0382-96, 0383-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0381-96, 0382-96, 0383-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0384-96, 0385-96, 0386-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0384-96, 0385-96, 0386-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0384-96, 0385-96, 0386-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0387-96, 0388-96, 0390-96
folder contains job numbers 0387-96, 0388-96, 0390-96
folder contains job numbers 0387-96, 0388-96, 0390-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0392, 96, 0393-96, 0394-96
folder contains job numbers 0392, 96, 0393-96, 0394-96
folder contains job numbers 0392, 96, 0393-96, 0394-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0395-96, 0396-96, 0397-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0395-96, 0396-96, 0397-96
folder contains job numbers 0395-96, 0396-96, 0397-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0398-96, 0399-96, 0400-96
folder contains job numbers 0398-96, 0399-96, 0400-96
folder contains job numbers 0398-96, 0399-96, 0400-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0402-96, 0404-96, 0405-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0402-96, 0404-96, 0405-96
folder contains job numbers 0402-96, 0404-96, 0405-96
folder contains job numbers 0406-96, 0408-96, 0409-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0406-96, 0408-96, 0409-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0406-96, 0408-96, 0409-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0410-96, 0411-96, 0414-96
folder contains job numbers 0410-96, 0411-96, 0414-96
folder contains job numbers 0410-96, 0411-96, 0414-96
folder contains job numbers 0415-96, 0417-96A-H, 0418-96
folder contains job numbers 0415-96, 0417-96A-H, 0418-96
folder contains job numbers 0415-96, 0417-96A-H, 0418-96
folder contains job numbers 0415-96, 0417-96A-H, 0418-96
folder contains job numbers 0415-96, 0417-96A-H, 0418-96
folder contains job numbers 0415-96, 0417-96A-H, 0418-96
folder contains job numbers 0415-96, 0417-96A-H, 0418-96
folder contains job numbers 0415-96, 0417-96A-H, 0418-96
folder contains job numbers 0415-96, 0417-96A-H, 0418-96
folder contains job numbers 0415-96, 0417-96A-H, 0418-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0420-96, 0422-96
folder contains job numbers 0420-96, 0422-96
folder contains job numbers 0423-96, 0424-96, 0425-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0423-96, 0424-96, 0425-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0423-96, 0424-96, 0425-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0426-96, 0427-96, 0429-96
folder contains job numbers 0426-96, 0427-96, 0429-96
folder contains job numbers 0426-96, 0427-96, 0429-96
folder contains job numbers 0430-96, 0431-96, 0432-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0430-96, 0431-96, 0432-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0430-96, 0431-96, 0432-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0435-96, 0436-96, 0437-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0435-96, 0436-96, 0437-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0435-96, 0436-96, 0437-96
folder contains job numbers 0439-96, 0440-96, 0441-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0439-96, 0440-96, 0441-96
folder contains job numbers 0439-96, 0440-96, 0441-96
folder contains job numbers 0442-96, 0443-96
folder contains job numbers 0442-96, 0443-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0445-96, 0446-96, 0447-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0445-96, 0446-96, 0447-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0445-96, 0446-96, 0447-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0448-96, 0449-96, 0450-96
folder contains job numbers 0448-96, 0449-96, 0450-96
folder contains job numbers 0448-96, 0449-96, 0450-96
folder contains job numbers 0451-96, 0452-96, 0453-96
folder contains job numbers 0451-96, 0452-96, 0453-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0451-96, 0452-96, 0453-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0456-96, 0457-96, 0458-96
folder contains job numbers 0456-96, 0457-96, 0458-96
folder contains job numbers 0456-96, 0457-96, 0458-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0460-96, 0461-96, 0462-96
folder contains job numbers 0460-96, 0461-96, 0462-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0460-96, 0461-96, 0462-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0463-96, 0464-96, 0466-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0463-96, 0464-96, 0466-96
folder contains job numbers 0463-96, 0464-96, 0466-96
folder contains job numbers 0467-96, 0468-96, 0469-96
folder contains job numbers 0467-96, 0468-96, 0469-96
folder contains job numbers 0467-96, 0468-96, 0469-96
folder contains job numbers 0470-96, 0471-96, 0472-96
folder contains job numbers 0470-96, 0471-96, 0472-96
folder contains job numbers 0470-96, 0471-96, 0472-96
folder contains job numbers 0473-96, 0474-96, 0475-96
folder contains job numbers 0473-96, 0474-96, 0475-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0473-96, 0474-96, 0475-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0477-96, 0478-96, 0479-96
folder contains job numbers 0477-96, 0478-96, 0479-96
folder contains job numbers 0477-96, 0478-96, 0479-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0480-96, 0481-96, 0482-96
folder contains job numbers 0480-96, 0481-96, 0482-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0480-96, 0481-96, 0482-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0486-96, 0487-96, 0488-96
folder contains job numbers 0486-96, 0487-96, 0488-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0486-96, 0487-96, 0488-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0489-96, 0490-96, 0491-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0489-96, 0490-96, 0491-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0489-96, 0490-96, 0491-96
folder contains job numbers 0492-96, 0493-96, 0494-96
folder contains job numbers 0492-96, 0493-96, 0494-96
folder contains job numbers 0492-96, 0493-96, 0494-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0495-96, 0500-96, 0501-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0495-96, 0500-96, 0501-96
folder contains job numbers 0495-96, 0500-96, 0501-96
folder contains job numbers 0502-96, 0503-96, 0507-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0502-96, 0503-96, 0507-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0502-96, 0503-96, 0507-96
folder contains job numbers 0508-96, 0509-96, 0510-96
folder contains job numbers 0508-96, 0509-96, 0510-96
folder contains job numbers 0508-96, 0509-96, 0510-96
folder contains job numbers 0511-96, 0512-96, 0513-96
folder contains job numbers 0511-96, 0512-96, 0513-96
folder contains job numbers 0511-96, 0512-96, 0513-96
folder contains job numbers 0518-96, 0519-96, 0524-96
folder contains job numbers 0518-96, 0519-96, 0524-96
folder contains job numbers 0518-96, 0519-96, 0524-96
folder contains job numbers 0525-96, 0527-96, 0528-96
folder contains job numbers 0525-96, 0527-96, 0528-96
folder contains job numbers 0525-96, 0527-96, 0528-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0531-96, 0532-96, 0533-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0531-96, 0532-96, 0533-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0531-96, 0532-96, 0533-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0534-96, 0539-96, 0540-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0534-96, 0539-96, 0540-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0534-96, 0539-96, 0540-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0542-96, 0543-96, 0545-96
folder contains job numbers 0542-96, 0543-96, 0545-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0542-96, 0543-96, 0545-96; subject details
folder contains job umbers 0546-96, 0547-96, 0548-96; subject details
folder contains job umbers 0546-96, 0547-96, 0548-96
folder contains job umbers 0546-96, 0547-96, 0548-96
folder contains job numbers 0549-96, 0550-96
folder contains job numbers 0549-96, 0550-96
folder contains job numbers 0552-96, 0553-96, 0554-96
folder contains job numbers 0552-96, 0553-96, 0554-96
folder contains job numbers 0552-96, 0553-96, 0554-96
folder contains job numbers 0555-96, 0556-96, 0558-96
folder contains job numbers 0555-96, 0556-96, 0558-96
folder contains job numbers 0555-96, 0556-96, 0558-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0559-96, 0560-96, 0562-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0559-96, 0560-96, 0562-96
folder contains job numbers 0559-96, 0560-96, 0562-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0563-96, 0564-96, 0566-96
folder contains job numbers 0563-96, 0564-96, 0566-96
folder contains job numbers 0563-96, 0564-96, 0566-96
folder contains job numbers 0568-96, 0569-96, 0570-97
folder contains job numbers 0568-96, 0569-96, 0570-97
folder contains job numbers 0568-96, 0569-96, 0570-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0571-96, 0572-96, 0573-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0571-96, 0572-96, 0573-96
folder contains job numbers 0571-96, 0572-96, 0573-96
folder contains job numbers 0574-96, 0575-96, 0576-96
folder contains job numbers 0574-96, 0575-96, 0576-96
folder contains job numbers 0574-96, 0575-96, 0576-96
folder contains job numbers 0577-96, 0578-96, 0579-96
folder contains job numbers 0577-96, 0578-96, 0579-96
folder contains job numbers 0577-96, 0578-96, 0579-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0580-96, 0581-96, 0582-96
folder contains job numbers 0580-96, 0581-96, 0582-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0580-96, 0581-96, 0582-96
folder contains job numbers 0583-96, 0584-96, 0586-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0583-96, 0584-96, 0586-96
folder contains job numbers 0583-96, 0584-96, 0586-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0588-96, 0589-96, 0590-96
folder contains job numbers 0588-96, 0589-96, 0590-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0588-96, 0589-96, 0590-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0591-96, 0592-96, 0593-96
folder contains job numbers 0591-96, 0592-96, 0593-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0591-96, 0592-96, 0593-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0594-96, 0595-96, 0596-96
folder contains job numbers 0594-96, 0595-96, 0596-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0594-96, 0595-96, 0596-96
folder contains job numbers 0597-96, 0598-96, 0599-96
folder contains job numbers 0597-96, 0598-96, 0599-96
folder contains job numbers 0597-96, 0598-96, 0599-96
folder contains job numbers 0600-96, 0601-96, 0602-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0600-96, 0601-96, 0602-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0600-96, 0601-96, 0602-96
folder contains job numbers 0603-96, 0604-96, 0605-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0603-96, 0604-96, 0605-96
folder contains job numbers 0603-96, 0604-96, 0605-96
folder contains job numbers 0606-96, 0607-96, 0608-96
folder contains job numbers 0606-96, 0607-96, 0608-96
folder contains job numbers 0606-96, 0607-96, 0608-96
folder contains job numbers 0610-96, 0612-96, 0613-96
folder contains job numbers 0610-96, 0612-96, 0613-96
folder contains job numbers 0610-96, 0612-96, 0613-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0614-96, 0615-96, 0616-96
folder contains job numbers 0614-96, 0615-96, 0616-96
folder contains job numbers 0614-96, 0615-96, 0616-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0617-96, 0618-96
folder contains job numbers 0617-96, 0618-96
subject details
folder contains job numbers 0620-96, 0621-96, 0623-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0620-96, 0621-96, 0623-96
folder contains job numbers 0620-96, 0621-96, 0623-96
folder contains job numbers 0626-96A-F, 0627-96, 0628-96
folder contains job numbers 0626-96A-F, 0627-96, 0628-96
folder contains job numbers 0626-96A-F, 0627-96, 0628-96
folder contains job numbers 0626-96A-F, 0627-96, 0628-96
folder contains job numbers 0626-96A-F, 0627-96, 0628-96
folder contains job numbers 0626-96A-F, 0627-96, 0628-96
folder contains job numbers 0626-96A-F, 0627-96, 0628-96
folder contains job numbers 0626-96A-F, 0627-96, 0628-96
folder contains job numbers 0629-96, 0630-96, 0631-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0629-96, 0630-96, 0631-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0629-96, 0630-96, 0631-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0632-96, 0633-96, 0634-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0632-96, 0633-96, 0634-96
folder contains job numbers 0632-96, 0633-96, 0634-96
folder contains job numbers 0635-96, 0636-96, 0637-96
folder contains job numbers 0635-96, 0636-96, 0637-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0635-96, 0636-96, 0637-96
folder contains job numbers 0638-96, 0640-96, 0641-96
folder contains job numbers 0638-96, 0640-96, 0641-96
folder contains job numbers 0638-96, 0640-96, 0641-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0642-96, 0643-96, 0645-96
folder contains job numbers 0642-96, 0643-96, 0645-96
folder contains job numbers 0642-96, 0643-96, 0645-96
folder contains job numbers 0646-96, 0647-96A-F, 0648-96
folder contains job numbers 0646-96, 0647-96A-F, 0648-96
folder contains job numbers 0646-96, 0647-96A-F, 0648-96
folder contains job numbers 0646-96, 0647-96A-F, 0648-96
folder contains job numbers 0646-96, 0647-96A-F, 0648-96
folder contains job numbers 0646-96, 0647-96A-F, 0648-96
folder contains job numbers 0646-96, 0647-96A-F, 0648-96
folder contains job numbers 0651-96, 0653-96, 0654-96
folder contains job numbers 0651-96, 0653-96, 0654-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0651-96, 0653-96, 0654-96
folder contains job numbers 0655-96, 0656-96, 0657-96A-D
folder contains job numbers 0655-96, 0656-96, 0657-96A-D
folder contains job numbers 0655-96, 0656-96, 0657-96A-D
folder contains job numbers 0655-96, 0656-96, 0657-96A-D
folder contains job numbers 0655-96, 0656-96, 0657-96A-D
folder contains job numbers 0655-96, 0656-96, 0657-96A-D
folder contains job numbers 0658-96, 0660-96, 0661-96
folder contains job numbers 0658-96, 0660-96, 0661-96
folder contains job numbers 0658-96, 0660-96, 0661-96
folder contains job numbers 0662-96, 0663-96, 0664-96
folder contains job numbers 0662-96, 0663-96, 0664-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0662-96, 0663-96, 0664-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0666-96, 0667-96, 0669-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0666-96, 0667-96, 0669-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0666-96, 0667-96, 0669-96
folder contains job numbers 0671-96, 0673-96, 0674-96
folder contains job numbers 0671-96, 0673-96, 0674-96
folder contains job numbers 0671-96, 0673-96, 0674-96
folder contains job numbers 0675-96, 0677-96, 0680-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0675-96, 0677-96, 0680-96
folder contains job numbers 0675-96, 0677-96, 0680-96
folder contains job numbers 0681-96, 0682-96
folder contains job numbers 0681-96, 0682-96
folder contains job numbers 0683-96, 0687-96, 0688-96
folder contains job numbers 0683-96, 0687-96, 0688-96
folder contains job numbers 0683-96, 0687-96, 0688-96
folder contains job numbers 0689-96, 0690-96, 0691-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0689-96, 0690-96, 0691-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0689-96, 0690-96, 0691-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0692-96, 0693-96, 0694-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0692-96, 0693-96, 0694-96
folder contains job numbers 0692-96, 0693-96, 0694-96
folder contains job numbers 0697-96, 0698-96, 0701-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0697-96, 0698-96, 0701-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0697-96, 0698-96, 0701-96
folder contains job numbers 0702-96, 0703-96, 0704-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0702-96, 0703-96, 0704-96
folder contains job numbers 0702-96, 0703-96, 0704-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0705-96, 0706-96, 0707-96
folder contains job numbers 0705-96, 0706-96, 0707-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0705-96, 0706-96, 0707-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0708-96, 0709-96, 0710-96
folder contains job numbers 0708-96, 0709-96, 0710-96
folder contains job numbers 0708-96, 0709-96, 0710-96
folder contains job numbers 0712-96, 0713-96, 0714-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0712-96, 0713-96, 0714-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0712-96, 0713-96, 0714-96
folder contains job numbers 0715-96, 0718-96, 0719-96
folder contains job numbers 0715-96, 0718-96, 0719-96
folder contains job numbers 0715-96, 0718-96, 0719-96
folder contains job numbers 0720-96, 0721-96, 0722-96
folder contains job numbers 0720-96, 0721-96, 0722-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0720-96, 0721-96, 0722-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0724-96, 0725-95, 0726-96
folder contains job numbers 0724-96, 0725-95, 0726-96
folder contains job numbers 0724-96, 0725-95, 0726-96
folder contains job numbers 0728-96, 0729-96, 0730-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0728-96, 0729-96, 0730-96
folder contains job numbers 0728-96, 0729-96, 0730-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0731-96, 0732-96, 0733-96
folder contains job numbers 0731-96, 0732-96, 0733-96
folder contains job numbers 0731-96, 0732-96, 0733-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0736-96, 0737-96, 0738-96
folder contains job numbers 0736-96, 0737-96, 0738-96
folder contains job numbers 0736-96, 0737-96, 0738-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0739-96, 0741-96, 0742-96
folder contains job numbers 0739-96, 0741-96, 0742-96
folder contains job numbers 0739-96, 0741-96, 0742-96
folder contains job numbers 0743-96, 0744-96, 0745-96
folder contains job numbers 0743-96, 0744-96, 0745-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0743-96, 0744-96, 0745-96
folder contains job numbers 0747-96, 0748-96, 0749-96
folder contains job numbers 0747-96, 0748-96, 0749-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0747-96, 0748-96, 0749-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0753-96, 0754-96, 0756-96
folder contains job numbers 0753-96, 0754-96, 0756-96
folder contains job numbers 0753-96, 0754-96, 0756-96
folder contains job numbers 0757-96, 0758-96, 0759-96
folder contains job numbers 0757-96, 0758-96, 0759-96
folder contains job numbers 0757-96, 0758-96, 0759-96
folder contains job numbers 0761-96, 0762-96, 0763-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0761-96, 0762-96, 0763-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0761-96, 0762-96, 0763-96
folder contains job numbers 0764-96, 0765-96, 0767-96
folder contains job numbers 0764-96, 0765-96, 0767-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0764-96, 0765-96, 0767-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0768-96, 0769-96, 0770-96
folder contains job numbers 0768-96, 0769-96, 0770-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0768-96, 0769-96, 0770-96
folder contains job numbers 0771-96, 0772-96, 0773-96
folder contains job numbers 0771-96, 0772-96, 0773-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0771-96, 0772-96, 0773-96
folder contains job numbers 0774-96, 0775-96, 0776-96
folder contains job numbers 0774-96, 0775-96, 0776-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0774-96, 0775-96, 0776-96
folder contains job numbers 0777-96, 0778-96, 0779-96
folder contains job numbers 0777-96, 0778-96, 0779-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0777-96, 0778-96, 0779-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0780-96, 0781-96, 0782-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0780-96, 0781-96, 0782-96
folder contains job numbers 0780-96, 0781-96, 0782-96
folder contains job numbers 0783-96, 0784-96, 0785-96
folder contains job numbers 0783-96, 0784-96, 0785-96
folder contains job numbers 0783-96, 0784-96, 0785-96
folder contains job numbers 0786-96, 0787-96, 0788-96
folder contains job numbers 0786-96, 0787-96, 0788-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0786-96, 0787-96, 0788-96
folder contains job numbers 0789-96, 0790-96, 0791-96
folder contains job numbers 0789-96, 0790-96, 0791-96
folder contains job numbers 0789-96, 0790-96, 0791-96
folder contains job numbers 0792-96, 0794-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0792-96, 0794-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0795-96, 0796-96, 0797-96
folder contains job numbers 0795-96, 0796-96, 0797-96
folder contains job numbers 0795-96, 0796-96, 0797-96
folder contains job numbers 0799-96, 0800-96, 0801-96
folder contains job numbers 0799-96, 0800-96, 0801-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0799-96, 0800-96, 0801-96
folder contains job numbers 0802-96, 0803-96, 0804-96
folder contains job numbers 0802-96, 0803-96, 0804-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0802-96, 0803-96, 0804-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0805-96, 0806-96, 0807-96
folder contains job numbers 0805-96, 0806-96, 0807-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0805-96, 0806-96, 0807-98
folder contains job numbers 0808-96, 0809-96, 0810-96
folder contains job numbers 0808-96, 0809-96, 0810-96
folder contains job numbers 0808-96, 0809-96, 0810-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0811-96, 0812-96, 0813-96: subject details
folder contains job numbers 0811-96, 0812-96, 0813-96: subject details
folder contains job numbers 0811-96, 0812-96, 0813-96
folder contains job numbers 0814-96, 0815-96, 0816-96
folder contains job numbers 0814-96, 0815-96, 0816-96
folder contains job numbers 0814-96, 0815-96, 0816-96
folder contains job numbers 0817-96, 0819-96, 0821-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0817-96, 0819-96, 0821-96
folder contains job numbers 0817-96, 0819-96, 0821-96
subject details
subject details
folder contains job numbers 0824-96, 0825-96, 0826-96
folder contains job numbers 0824-96, 0825-96, 0826-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0824-96, 0825-96, 0826-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0827-96, 0828-96, 0830-96
folder contains job numbers 0827-96, 0828-96, 0830-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0827-96, 0828-96, 0830-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0831-96, 0832-96, 0833-96
folder contains job numbers 0831-96, 0832-96, 0833-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0831-96, 0832-96, 0833-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0835-96, 0836-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0835-96, 0836-96
subject details
folder contains job numbers 0838-96, 0841-96, 0842-96
folder contains job numbers 0838-96, 0841-96, 0842-96
folder contains job numbers 0838-96, 0841-96, 0842-96
folder contains job numbers 0843-96, 0844-96, 0845-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0843-96, 0844-96, 0845-97
folder contains job numbers 0843-96, 0844-96, 0845-98
folder contains job numbers 0846-96, 0847-96, 0848-96
folder contains job numbers 0846-96, 0847-96, 0848-96
folder contains job numbers 0846-96, 0847-96, 0848-96
folder contains job numbers 0849-96, 0850-96, 0851-96
folder contains job numbers 0849-96, 0850-96, 0851-96
folder contains job numbers 0849-96, 0850-96, 0851-96
folder contains job numbers 0852-96, 0853-96, 0854-96
folder contains job numbers 0852-96, 0853-96, 0854-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0852-96, 0853-96, 0854-98
folder contains job numbers 0857-96, 0858-96, 0859-96
folder contains job numbers 0857-96, 0858-96, 0859-96
folder contains job numbers 0857-96, 0858-96, 0859-96
folder contains job numbers 0860-96, 0861-96, 0862-96
folder contains job numbers 0860-96, 0861-96, 0862-96
folder contains job numbers 0860-96, 0861-96, 0862-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0865-96, 0866-96, 0867-96
folder contains job numbers 0865-96, 0866-96, 0867-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0865-96, 0866-96, 0867-96
folder contains job numbers 0870-96, 0872-96, 0873-96
folder contains job numbers 0870-96, 0872-96, 0873-96
folder contains job numbers 0870-96, 0872-96, 0873-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0874-96, 0875-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0874-96, 0875-96
folder contains job numbers 0876-96, 0877-96, 0878-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0876-96, 0877-96, 0878-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0876-96, 0877-96, 0878-96
folder contains job numbers 0879-96, 0880-96, 0881-96
folder contains job numbers 0879-96, 0880-96, 0881-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0879-96, 0880-96, 0881-96
folder contains job numbers 0882-96, 0883-96, 0884-96
folder contains job numbers 0882-96, 0883-96, 0884-96
folder contains job numbers 0882-96, 0883-96, 0884-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0885-96, 0886-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0885-96, 0886-96
subject details
folder contains job numbers 0888-96, 0889-96, 0890-96
folder contains job numbers 0888-96, 0889-96, 0890-96
folder contains job numbers 0888-96, 0889-96, 0890-96
folder contains job numbers 0892-96, 0893-96, 0894-96
folder contains job numbers 0892-96, 0893-96, 0894-96
folder contains job numbers 0892-96, 0893-96, 0894-96
subject details
folder contains job numbers 0896-96, 0897-96, 0898-96
folder contains job numbers 0896-96, 0897-96, 0898-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0896-96, 0897-96, 0898-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0899-96, 0900-96, 0903-96
folder contains job numbers 0899-96, 0900-96, 0903-96
folder contains job numbers 0899-96, 0900-96, 0903-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0904-96, 0905-96, 0906-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0904-96, 0905-96, 0906-96
folder contains job numbers 0904-96, 0905-96, 0906-96
folder contains job numbers 0907-97, 0908-96, 0910-96
folder contains job numbers 0907-97, 0908-96, 0910-96
folder contains job numbers 0907-97, 0908-96, 0910-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0912-96, 0913-96, 0914-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0912-96, 0913-96, 0914-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0912-96, 0913-96, 0914-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0915-96, 0917-96, 0920-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0915-96, 0917-96, 0920-96
folder contains job numbers 0915-96, 0917-96, 0920-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0921-96, 0922-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0921-96, 0922-96
subject details
folder contains job numbers 0924-96, 0925-96, 0927-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0924-96, 0925-96, 0927-96
folder contains job numbers 0924-96, 0925-96, 0927-96
folder contains job numbers 0928-96, 0929-96, 0930-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0928-96, 0929-96, 0930-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0928-96, 0929-96, 0930-96
folder contains job numbers 0931-96, 0932-96, 0933-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0931-96, 0932-96, 0933-96
folder contains job numbers 0931-96, 0932-96, 0933-96
folder contains job numbers 0934-96, 0935-96, 0936-96
folder contains job numbers 0934-96, 0935-96, 0936-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0934-96, 0935-96, 0936-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0937-96, 0938-96, 0939-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0937-96, 0938-96, 0939-96
folder contains job numbers 0937-96, 0938-96, 0939-96
folder contains job numbers 0940-96, 0941-96, 0942-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0940-96, 0941-96, 0942-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0940-96, 0941-96, 0942-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0943-96, 0944-96, 0945-96
folder contains job numbers 0943-96, 0944-96, 0945-96
folder contains job numbers 0943-96, 0944-96, 0945-96
folder contains job numbers 0946-96, 0947-96, 0949-96
folder contains job numbers 0946-96, 0947-96, 0949-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0946-96, 0947-96, 0949-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0950-96, 0951-96, 0953-96
folder contains job numbers 0950-96, 0951-96, 0953-96
folder contains job numbers 0950-96, 0951-96, 0953-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0955-96, 0956-96, 0957-96
folder contains job numbers 0955-96, 0956-96, 0957-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0955-96, 0956-96, 0957-96
folder contains job numbers 0958-96, 0960-96, 0961-96
folder contains job numbers 0958-96, 0960-96, 0961-96
folder contains job numbers 0958-96, 0960-96, 0961-96
folder contains job numbers 0962-96, 0965-96, 0966-96
folder contains job numbers 0962-96, 0965-96, 0966-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0962-96, 0965-96, 0966-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0967-96, 0968-96, 0969-96
folder contains job numbers 0967-96, 0968-96, 0969-96
folder contains job numbers 0967-96, 0968-96, 0969-96
folder contains job numbers 0971-96, 0973-96, 0974-96
folder contains job numbers 0971-96, 0973-96, 0974-96
folder contains job numbers 0971-96, 0973-96, 0974-96
folder contains job numbers 0975-96, 0977-96, 0980-96
folder contains job numbers 0975-96, 0977-96, 0980-96
folder contains job numbers 0975-96, 0977-96, 0980-96
folder contains job numbers 0981-96, 0982-96, 0983-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0981-96, 0982-96, 0983-96
folder contains job numbers 0981-96, 0982-96, 0983-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0984-96, 0985-96, 0986-96
folder contains job numbers 0984-96, 0985-96, 0986-96
folder contains job numbers 0984-96, 0985-96, 0986-96
folder contains job numbers 0987-97, 0988-96, 0989-96
folder contains job numbers 0987-97, 0988-96, 0989-96
folder contains job numbers 0987-97, 0988-96, 0989-96
folder contains job numbers 0990-96, 0991-96, 0992-96
folder contains job numbers 0990-96, 0991-96, 0992-96
folder contains job numbers 0990-96, 0991-96, 0992-96
folder contains job numbers 0993-96, 0994-96, 0996-96
folder contains job numbers 0993-96, 0994-96, 0996-96
folder contains job numbers 0993-96, 0994-96, 0996-96
subject details
folder contains job numbers 0998-96, 0999-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0998-96, 0999-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1001-96, 1002-96, 1004-96
folder contains job numbers 1001-96, 1002-96, 1004-97
folder contains job numbers 1001-96, 1002-96, 1004-98; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1005-96, 1006-96, 1007-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1005-96, 1006-96, 1007-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1005-96, 1006-96, 1007-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1008-96, 1009-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1008-96, 1009-96
subject details; divided between 2 folders
folder contains job numbers 1011-96, 1013-96, 1014-96 1015-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1011-96, 1013-96, 1014-96 1015-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1011-96, 1013-96, 1014-96 1015-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1011-96, 1013-96, 1014-96 1015-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1016-96, 1017-96, 1018-96
folder contains job numbers 1016-96, 1017-96, 1018-96
folder contains job numbers 1016-96, 1017-96, 1018-96
folder contains job numbers 1019-96, 1020-96, 1023-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1019-96, 1020-96, 1023-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1019-96, 1020-96, 1023-96
folder contains job numbers 1023-96, 1025-96, 1026-96
folder contains job numbers 1023-96, 1025-96, 1026-96
folder contains job numbers 1023-96, 1025-96, 1026-96
folder contains job numbers 1027-96, 1029-96, 1031-96
folder contains job numbers 1027-96, 1029-96, 1031-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1027-96, 1029-96, 1031-96
folder contains job numbers 1033-96, 1035-96, 1036-96
folder contains job numbers 1033-96, 1035-96, 1036-96
folder contains job numbers 1033-96, 1035-96, 1036-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1037-96, 1038-96, 1039-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1037-96, 1038-96, 1039-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1037-96, 1038-96, 1039-96
folder contains job numbers 1040-96, 1042-96, 1043-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1040-96, 1042-96, 1043-96
folder contains job numbers 1040-96, 1042-96, 1043-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1044-96, 1045-96, 1046-96
folder contains job numbers 1044-96, 1045-96, 1046-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1044-96, 1045-96, 1046-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1047-96, 1048-96, 1050-96
folder contains job numbers 1047-96, 1048-96, 1050-96
folder contains job numbers 1047-96, 1048-96, 1050-96
folder contains job numbers 1051-96, 1052-96, 1053-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1051-96, 1052-96, 1053-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1051-96, 1052-96, 1053-96
folder contains job numbers 1054-96, 1055-96, 1056-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1054-96, 1055-96, 1056-96
folder contains job numbers 1054-96, 1055-96, 1056-96
folder contains job numbers 1057-96, 1058-96, 1060-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1057-96, 1058-96, 1060-96
folder contains job numbers 1057-96, 1058-96, 1060-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1062-96, 1065-96, 1066-96
folder contains job numbers 1062-96, 1065-96, 1066-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1062-96, 1065-96, 1066-96
folder contains job numbers 1067-96, 1068-96, 1069-96
folder contains job numbers 1067-96, 1068-96, 1069-96
folder contains job numbers 1067-96, 1068-96, 1069-96
folder contains job numbers 1070-96, 1071-96, 1072-96
folder contains job numbers 1070-96, 1071-96, 1072-96
folder contains job numbers 1070-96, 1071-96, 1072-96
folder contains job numbers 1073-96, 1074-96, 1075-96
folder contains job numbers 1073-96, 1074-96, 1075-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1073-96, 1074-96, 1075-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1076-96, 1077-96, 1078-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1076-96, 1077-96, 1078-96
folder contains job numbers 1076-96, 1077-96, 1078-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1080-96, 1081-96, 1082-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1080-96, 1081-96, 1082-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1080-96, 1081-96, 1082-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1083-96, 1084-96, 1085-96
folder contains job numbers 1083-96, 1084-96, 1085-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1083-96, 1084-96, 1085-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1086-96, 1087-96, 1088-96
folder contains job numbers 1086-96, 1087-96, 1088-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1086-96, 1087-96, 1088-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1090-96, 1091-96, 1092-96
folder contains job numbers 1090-96, 1091-96, 1092-96
folder contains job numbers 1090-96, 1091-96, 1092-96
folder contains job numbers 1093-96, 1094-96, 1096-96
folder contains job numbers 1093-96, 1094-96, 1096-96-subject details
folder contains job numbers 1093-96, 1094-96, 1096-96
folder contains job numbers 1097-96, 1098-96, 1100-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1097-96, 1098-96, 1100-96
folder contains job numbers 1097-96, 1098-96, 1100-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1101-96, 1102-96, 1104-96
folder contains job numbers 1101-96, 1102-96, 1104-96
folder contains job numbers 1101-96, 1102-96, 1104-96
folder contains job numbers 1105-96, 1106-96, 1107-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1105-96, 1106-96, 1107-96
folder contains job numbers 1105-96, 1106-96, 1107-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1108-96, 1109-96, 1110-96
folder contains job numbers 1108-96, 1109-96, 1110-96
folder contains job numbers 1108-96, 1109-96, 1110-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1111-96, 1113-96, 1115-96
folder contains job numbers 1111-96, 1113-96, 1115-96
folder contains job numbers 1111-96, 1113-96, 1115-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1116-96, 1117-96, 1118-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1116-96, 1117-96, 1118-96
folder contains job numbers 1116-96, 1117-96, 1118-96
folder contains job numbers 1120-96, 1122-96, 1123-96; subject deatils
folder contains job numbers 1120-96, 1122-96, 1123-96; subject deatils
folder contains job numbers 1120-96, 1122-96, 1123-96
folder contains job numbers 1124-96, 1125-96, 1126-96
folder contains job numbers 1124-96, 1125-96, 1126-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1124-96, 1125-96, 1126-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1127-96, 1128-96, 1129-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1127-96, 1128-96, 1129-96
folder contains job numbers 1127-96, 1128-96, 1129-96
folder contains job numbers 1130-96, 1132-96, 1133A-96
folder contains job numbers 1130-96, 1132-96, 1133A-96
folder contains job numbers 1130-96, 1132-96, 1133A-96
folder contains job numbers 1133-96B-D
folder contains job numbers 1133-96B-D
folder contains job numbers 1133-96B-D
folder contains job numbers 1134-96, 1135-96, 1136-96
folder contains job numbers 1134-96, 1135-96, 1136-96
folder contains job numbers 1134-96, 1135-96, 1136-96
folder contains job numbers 1137-96, 1141-96, 1142-96
folder contains job numbers 1137-96, 1141-96, 1142-96
folder contains job numbers 1137-96, 1141-96, 1142-96
folder contains job numbers 1143-96, 1145-96, 1146-96
folder contains job numbers 1143-96, 1145-96, 1146-96
folder contains job numbers 1143-96, 1145-96, 1146-96
folder contains job numbers 1147-96, 1148-96, 1149-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1147-96, 1148-96, 1149-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1147-96, 1148-96, 1149-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1150-96, 1151-96, 1152-96
folder contains job numbers 1150-96, 1151-96, 1152-96
folder contains job numbers 1150-96, 1151-96, 1152-96
folder contains job numbers 1153-96, 1155-96, 1157-96
folder contains job numbers 1153-96, 1155-96, 1157-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1153-96, 1155-96, 1157-96
folder contains job numbers 1158-96, 1159-96, 1160-96
folder contains job numbers 1158-96, 1159-96, 1160-96
folder contains job numbers 1158-96, 1159-96, 1160-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1161-96, 1162-96, 1163-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1161-96, 1162-96, 1163-96
folder contains job numbers 1161-96, 1162-96, 1163-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1164-96, 1165-96, 1166-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1164-96, 1165-96, 1166-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1164-96, 1165-96, 1166-96
folder contains job numbers 1168-96, 1169-96, 1170-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1168-96, 1169-96, 1170-96
folder contains job numbers 1168-96, 1169-96, 1170-96
folder contains job numbers 1171-96, 1172-96, 1174-96
folder contains job numbers 1171-96, 1172-96, 1174-96
folder contains job numbers 1171-96, 1172-96, 1174-96; subject details
folder conatins job numbers 1175-96, 1176-96, 1177-96; subject details
folder conatins job numbers 1175-96, 1176-96, 1177-96; subject details
folder conatins job numbers 1175-96, 1176-96, 1177-96
folder contains job numbers 1178-96, 1179-96, 1181-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1178-96, 1179-96, 1181-96
folder contains job numbers 1178-96, 1179-96, 1181-96
folder contains job numbers 1182-96, 1183-96, 1184-96
folder contains job numbers 1182-96, 1183-96, 1184-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1182-96, 1183-96, 1184-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1186-96, 1186-96, 1187-96
folder contains job numbers 1186-96, 1186-96, 1187-96
folder contains job numbers 1186-96, 1186-96, 1187-96
folder contains job numbers 1189-96, 1193-96, 1194-96
folder contains job numbers 1189-96, 1193-96, 1194-96
folder contains job numbers 1189-96, 1193-96, 1194-96
folder contains job numbers 1195-95, 1196-96, 1197-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1195-95, 1196-96, 1197-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1195-95, 1196-96, 1197-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1198-96, 1199-96, 1200-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1198-96, 1199-96, 1200-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1198-96, 1199-96, 1200-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1202-96, 1203-96, 1204-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1202-96, 1203-96, 1204-96
folder contains job numbers 1202-96, 1203-96, 1204-96
folder contains job numbers 1205-96, 1206-96, 1207-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1205-96, 1206-96, 1207-96
folder contains job numbers 1205-96, 1206-96, 1207-96
folder contains job numbers 1208-96, 1209-96, 1210-96
folder contains job numbers 1208-96, 1209-96, 1210-96
folder contains job numbers 1208-96, 1209-96, 1210-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1211-96, 1212-96, 1214-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1211-96, 1212-96, 1214-96
folder contains job numbers 1211-96, 1212-96, 1214-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1215-96, 1216-96, 1219-96
folder contains job numbers 1215-96, 1216-96, 1219-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1215-96, 1216-96, 1219-96
folder contains job numbers 1220-96, 1221-96, 1222-96
folder contains job numbers 1220-96, 1221-96, 1222-96
folder contains job numbers 1220-96, 1221-96, 1222-96
folder contains job numbers 1224-96, 1225-96, 1226-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1224-96, 1225-96, 1226-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1224-96, 1225-96, 1226-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1228-96, 1229-96, 1231-96
folder contains job numbers 1228-96, 1229-96, 1231-96
folder contains job numbers 1228-96, 1229-96, 1231-96
folder contains job numbers 1232-96, 1234-96, 1235-96
folder contains job numbers 1232-96, 1234-96, 1235-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1232-96, 1234-96, 1235-96
folder contains job numbers 1236-96, 1237-96, 1238-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1236-96, 1237-96, 1238-96
folder contains job numbers 1236-96, 1237-96, 1238-96
folder contains job numbers 1239-96, 1240-96, 1241-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1239-96, 1240-96, 1241-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1239-96, 1240-96, 1241-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1242-96, 1243-96, 1244-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1242-96, 1243-96, 1244-96
folder contains job numbers 1242-96, 1243-96, 1244-96
folder contains job numbers 1245-96, 1246-96, 1247-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1245-96, 1246-96, 1247-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1245-96, 1246-96, 1247-96
folder contains job numbers 1248-96, 1249-96, 1250-96
folder contains job numbers 1248-96, 1249-96, 1250-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1248-96, 1249-96, 1250-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1252-96, 1253-96, 1254-96
folder contains job numbers 1252-96, 1253-96, 1254-96
folder contains job numbers 1252-96, 1253-96, 1254-96
folder contains job numbers 1255-96, 1256-96, 1267-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1255-96, 1256-96, 1267-96
folder contains job numbers 1255-96, 1256-96, 1267-96
folder contains job numbers 1258-96, 1260-96, 1261-96
folder contains job numbers 1258-96, 1260-96, 1261-96
folder contains job numbers 1258-96, 1260-96, 1261-96
folder contains job numbers 1263-96, 1264-96, 1265-96
folder contains job numbers 1263-96, 1264-96, 1265-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1263-96, 1264-96, 1265-96
folder contains job numbers 1266-96, 1267-96, 1268-96
folder contains job numbers 1266-96, 1267-96, 1268-96
folder contains job numbers 1266-96, 1267-96, 1268-96
folder contains job numbers 1269-96, 1270-96, 1271-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1269-96, 1270-96, 1271-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1269-96, 1270-96, 1271-96
folder contains job numbers 1273-96, 1274-96, 1276-96
folder contains job numbers 1273-96, 1274-96, 1276-96; subject details
folder contains job numbers 1273-96, 1274-96, 1276-96
folder contains job numbers 1277-96, 1278-96, 1279-96
folder contains job numbers 1277-96, 1278-96, 1279-96
folder contains job numbers 1277-96, 1278-96, 1279-96
folder contains job numbers 1280-96, 0001-97, 0002-97
folder contains job numbers 1280-96, 0001-97, 0002-97
folder contains job numbers 1280-96, 0001-97, 0002-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0003-97, 0004-97, 0005-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0003-97, 0004-97, 0005-97
folder contains job numbers 0003-97, 0004-97, 0005-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0006-97, 0007-97, 0009-97: subject details
folder contains job numbers 0006-97, 0007-97, 0009-97
folder contains job numbers 0006-97, 0007-97, 0009-97
folder contains job numbers 0010-97, 0011-97, 0014-97
folder contains job numbers 0010-97, 0011-97, 0014-97
folder contains job numbers 0010-97, 0011-97, 0014-97
folder contains job numbers 0015-97, 0016-97, 0017-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0015-97, 0016-97, 0017-97
folder contains job numbers 0015-97, 0016-97, 0017-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0018-97, 0019-97, 0020-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0018-97, 0019-97, 0020-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0018-97, 0019-97, 0020-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0021-97, 0022-97, 0023-97
folder contains job numbers 0021-97, 0022-97, 0023-97
folder contains job numbers 0021-97, 0022-97, 0023-97
folder contains job numbers 0024-97, 0025-97, 0026-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0024-97, 0025-97, 0026-97
folder contains job numbers 0024-97, 0025-97, 0026-97
folder contains job numbers 0030-97, 0031-97, 0032-97
folder contains job numbers 0030-97, 0031-97, 0032-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0030-97, 0031-97, 0032-97
folder contains job numbers 0033-97, 0034-97, 0037-97
folder contains job numbers 0033-97, 0034-97, 0037-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0033-97, 0034-97, 0037-97
folder contains job numbers 0038-97, 0039-97, 0040-97
folder contains job numbers 0038-97, 0039-97, 0040-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0038-97, 0039-97, 0040-97
folder contains job numbers 0041-97, 0043-97, 0044-97
folder contains job numbers 0041-97, 0043-97, 0044-97
folder contains job numbers 0041-97, 0043-97, 0044-97
folder contains job numbers 0045-97, 0046-97, 0047-97
folder contains job numbers 0045-97, 0046-97, 0047-97
folder contains job numbers 0045-97, 0046-97, 0047-97
folder contains job numbers 0048-97, 0049-97, 0050-97
folder contains job numbers 0048-97, 0049-97, 0050-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0048-97, 0049-97, 0050-97
folder contains job numbers 0051-97, 0052-97, 0053-97
folder contains job numbers 0051-97, 0052-97, 0053-97
folder contains job numbers 0051-97, 0052-97, 0053-97
folder contains job numbers 0054-97, 0055-97, 0056-97
folder contains job numbers 0054-97, 0055-97, 0056-97
folder contains job numbers 0054-97, 0055-97, 0056-97
folder contains job numbers 0057-97, 0058-97, 0059-97
folder contains job numbers 0057-97, 0058-97, 0059-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0057-97, 0058-97, 0059-97
folder contains job numbers 0060-97, 0061-97, 0063-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0060-97, 0061-97, 0063-97
folder contains job numbers 0060-97, 0061-97, 0063-97
folder contains job numbers 0064-97, 0065-97, 0066-97
folder contains job numbers 0064-97, 0065-97, 0066-97
folder contains job numbers 0064-97, 0065-97, 0066-97
folder contains job numbers 0067-97, 0068-97, 0070-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0067-97, 0068-97, 0070-97
folder contains job numbers 0067-97, 0068-97, 0070-97
folder contains job numbers 0072-97, 0073-97, 0074-97
folder contains job numbers 0072-97, 0073-97, 0074-97
folder contains job numbers 0072-97, 0073-97, 0074-97
folder contains job numbers 0076-97, 0077-97, 0078-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0076-97, 0077-97, 0078-97
folder contains job numbers 0076-97, 0077-97, 0078-97
folder contains job numbers 0079-97, 0080-97, 0081-97
folder contains job numbers 0079-97, 0080-97, 0081-97
folder contains job numbers 0079-97, 0080-97, 0081-97
folder contains job numbers 0084-97, 0085-97, 0086-97
folder contains job numbers 0084-97, 0085-97, 0086-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0084-97, 0085-97, 0086-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0087-97, 0088-97, 0090-97
folder contains job numbers 0087-97, 0088-97, 0090-97
folder contains job numbers 0087-97, 0088-97, 0090-97
folder contains job numbers 0092-97, 0093-97, 0094-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0092-97, 0093-97, 0094-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0092-97, 0093-97, 0094-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0095-97, 0096-97, 0097-97
folder contains job numbers 0095-97, 0096-97, 0097-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0095-97, 0096-97, 0097-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0098-97, 0099-97, 0100-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0098-97, 0099-97, 0100-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0098-97, 0099-97, 0100-97
folder contains job numbers 0102-97, 0104-97, 0105-97
folder contains job numbers 0102-97, 0104-97, 0105-97
folder contains job numbers 0102-97, 0104-97, 0105-97
folder contains job numbers 0106-97, 0107-97, 0108-97
folder contains job numbers 0106-97, 0107-97, 0108-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0106-97, 0107-97, 0108-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0109-97, 0110-97, 0112-97
folder contains job numbers 0109-97, 0110-97, 0112-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0109-97, 0110-97, 0112-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0114-97, 0116-97, 0117-97
folder contains job numbers 0114-97, 0116-97, 0117-97
folder contains job numbers 0114-97, 0116-97, 0117-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0118-97, 0119-97, 0120-97
folder contains job numbers 0118-97, 0119-97, 0120-97
folder contains job numbers 0118-97, 0119-97, 0120-97
folder contains job numbers 0121-97, 0122-97, 0123-97
folder contains job numbers 0121-97, 0122-97, 0123-97
folder contains job numbers 0121-97, 0122-97, 0123-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0124-97, 0125-97, 0126-97
folder contains job numbers 0124-97, 0125-97, 0126-97
folder contains job numbers 0124-97, 0125-97, 0126-97
folder contains job numbers 0127-97, 0128-97, 0130-97
folder contains job numbers 0127-97, 0128-97, 0130-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0127-97, 0128-97, 0130-97
folder contains job numbers 0131-97, 0132-97, 0133-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0131-97, 0132-97, 0133-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0131-97, 0132-97, 0133-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0134-97, 0135-97, 0138-97
folder contains job numbers 0134-97, 0135-97, 0138-97
folder contains job numbers 0134-97, 0135-97, 0138-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0139-97, 0140-97, 0141-97
folder contains job numbers 0139-97, 0140-97, 0141-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0139-97, 0140-97, 0141-97
folder contains job numbers 0142-97, 0143-97, 0144-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0142-97, 0143-97, 0144-97
folder contains job numbers 0142-97, 0143-97, 0144-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0145-97, 0146-97, 0147-97
folder contains job numbers 0145-97, 0146-97, 0147-97: subject details
folder contains job numbers 0145-97, 0146-97, 0147-97: subject details
folder contains job numbers 0148-97, 0149-97, 0150-97
folder contains job numbers 0148-97, 0149-97, 0150-97
folder contains job numbers 0148-97, 0149-97, 0150-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0151-97, 0152-97, 0153-97
folder contains job numbers 0151-97, 0152-97, 0153-97
folder contains job numbers 0151-97, 0152-97, 0153-97
folder contains job numbers 0155-97, 0156-97, 0158-97
folder contains job numbers 0155-97, 0156-97, 0158-97
folder contains job numbers 0155-97, 0156-97, 0158-97; subject details
folder comtains job numbers 0159-97, 0161-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0159-97, 0161-97
folder contains job numbers 0162-97, 0163-97
folder contains job numbers 0162-97, 0163-97
folder contains job numbers 0164-97, 0165-97, 0166-97
folder contains job numbers 0164-97, 0165-97, 0166-97
folder contains job numbers 0164-97, 0165-97, 0166-97
folder contains job numbers 0170-97, 0171-97, 0172-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0170-97, 0171-97, 0172-97
folder contains job numbers 0170-97, 0171-97, 0172-97
folder contains job numbers 0173-97, 0174-97, 0178-97
folder contains job numbers 0173-97, 0174-97, 0178-97
folder contains job numbers 0173-97, 0174-97, 0178-97
folder contains job numbers 0180-97, 0181-97, 0184-97: subject details
folder contains job numbers 0180-97, 0181-97, 0184-97: subject details
folder contains job numbers 0180-97, 0181-97, 0184-97
folder contains job numbers 0185-97, 0186-97, 0187-97
folder contains job numbers 0185-97, 0186-97, 0187-97
folder contains job numbers 0185-97, 0186-97, 0187-97
folder contains job numbers 0188-97, 0192-97, 0193-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0188-97, 0192-97, 0193-97
folder contains job numbers 0188-97, 0192-97, 0193-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0194-97, 0195-97, 0196-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0194-97, 0195-97, 0196-97
folder contains job numbers 0194-97, 0195-97, 0196-97
folder contains job numbers 0197-97, 0198-97, 0199-97
folder contains job numbers 0197-97, 0198-97, 0199-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0197-97, 0198-97, 0199-97
folder contains job numbers 0200-97, 0201-97, 0203-97
folder contains job numbers 0200-97, 0201-97, 0203-97
folder contains job numbers 0200-97, 0201-97, 0203-97
folder contains job numbers 0204-97, 0205-97, 0206-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0204-97, 0205-97, 0206-97
folder contains job numbers 0204-97, 0205-97, 0206-97
folder contains job numbers 0207-97, 0208-97, 0210-97
folder contains job numbers 0207-97, 0208-97, 0210-97
folder contains job numbers 0207-97, 0208-97, 0210-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0211-97, 0212-97, 0214-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0211-97, 0212-97, 0214-97
folder contains job numbers 0211-97, 0212-97, 0214-97
folder contains job numbers 0216-97, 0217-97, 0221-97
folder contains job numbers 0216-97, 0217-97, 0221-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0216-97, 0217-97, 0221-97
folder contains job numbers 0222-97, 0223-97, 0224-97
folder contains job numbers 0222-97, 0223-97, 0224-97
folder contains job numbers 0222-97, 0223-97, 0224-97
folder contains job numbers 0225-97, 0226-97, 0227-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0225-97, 0226-97, 0227-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0225-97, 0226-97, 0227-97
folder contains job numbers 0228-97, 0229-97, 0230-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0228-97, 0229-97, 0230-97
folder contains job numbers 0228-97, 0229-97, 0230-97
folder contains job numbers 0231-97, 0232-97, 0233-97
folder contains job numbers 0231-97, 0232-97, 0233-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0231-97, 0232-97, 0233-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0234-97, 0235-97, 0238-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0234-97, 0235-97, 0238-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0234-97, 0235-97, 0238-97
folder contains job numbers 0239-97, 0240-97, 0241-97
folder contains job numbers 0239-97, 0240-97, 0241-97
folder contains job numbers 0239-97, 0240-97, 0241-97
folder contains job numbers 0242-97, 0244-97, 0245-97
folder contains job numbers 0242-97, 0244-97, 0245-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0242-97, 0244-97, 0245-97
folder contains job numbers 0248-97, 0250-97, 0255-97
folder contains job numbers 0248-97, 0250-97, 0255-97
folder contains job numbers 0248-97, 0250-97, 0255-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0256-97, 0257-97, 0258-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0256-97, 0257-97, 0258-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0256-97, 0257-97, 0258-97
folder contains job numbers 0259-97, 0260-97, 0261-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0259-97, 0260-97, 0261-97
folder contains job numbers 0259-97, 0260-97, 0261-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0262-97, 0263-97, 0264-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0262-97, 0263-97, 0264-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0262-97, 0263-97, 0264-97
folder contains job numbers 0265-97, 0269-97, 0270-97
folder contains job numbers 0265-97, 0269-97, 0270-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0265-97, 0269-97, 0270-97
folder contains job numbers 0271-97, 0272-97, 0273-97
folder contains job numbers 0271-97, 0272-97, 0273-97
folder contains job numbers 0271-97, 0272-97, 0273-97
folder contains job numbers 0278-97, 0279-97, 0280-97
folder contains job numbers 0278-97, 0279-97, 0280-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0278-97, 0279-97, 0280-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0281-97, 0282-97, 0283-97
folder contains job numbers 0281-97, 0282-97, 0283-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0281-97, 0282-97, 0283-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0284-97, 0285-97, 0286-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0284-97, 0285-97, 0286-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0284-97, 0285-97, 0286-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0287-97, 0288-97, 0289-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0287-97, 0288-97, 0289-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0287-97, 0288-97, 0289-97
folder contains job numbers 0290-97, 0291-97, 0292-97
folder contains job numbers 0290-97, 0291-97, 0292-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0290-97, 0291-97, 0292-97
folder contains job numbers 0293-97, 0294-97, 0295-97
folder contains job numbers 0293-97, 0294-97, 0295-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0293-97, 0294-97, 0295-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0298-97, 0299-97
folder contains job numbers 0298-97, 0299-97; subject details
folder contains job number 0301-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0302-97, 0303-97, 0304-97
folder contains job numbers 0302-97, 0303-97, 0304-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0302-97, 0303-97, 0304-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0306-97, 0307-97, 0308-97
folder contains job numbers 0306-97, 0307-97, 0308-97
folder contains job numbers 0306-97, 0307-97, 0308-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0309-97
folder contains job numbers 0310-97, 0313-97, 0314-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0310-97, 0313-97, 0314-97
folder contains job numbers 0310-97, 0313-97, 0314-97
folder contains job numbers 0315-97, 0316-97, 0317-97
folder contains job numbers 0315-97, 0316-97, 0317-97
folder contains job numbers 0315-97, 0316-97, 0317-97
folder contains job numbers 0318-97, 0319-97, 0320-97
folder contains job numbers 0318-97, 0319-97, 0320-97
folder contains job numbers 0318-97, 0319-97, 0320-97
folder contains job numbers 0322-97, 0323-97, 0324-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0322-97, 0323-97, 0324-97
folder contains job numbers 0322-97, 0323-97, 0324-97
folder contains job numbers 0325-97, 0326-97, 0327-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0325-97, 0326-97, 0327-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0325-97, 0326-97, 0327-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0329-97, 0330-97, 0332-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0329-97, 0330-97, 0332-97
folder contains job numbers 0329-97, 0330-97, 0332-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0332-97, 0333-97, 0335-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0332-97, 0333-97, 0335-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0332-97, 0333-97, 0335-97
folder contains job numbers 0336-97, 0338-97, 0339-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0336-97, 0338-97, 0339-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0336-97, 0338-97, 0339-97
folder contains job numbers 0340-97, 0341-97, 0342-97
folder contains job numbers 0340-97, 0341-97, 0342-97
folder contains job numbers 0340-97, 0341-97, 0342-97
folder contains job numbers 0343-97, 0344-97, 0345-97
folder contains job numbers 0343-97, 0344-97, 0345-97
folder contains job numbers 0343-97, 0344-97, 0345-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0346-97, 0347-97, 0348-97
folder contains job numbers 0346-97, 0347-97, 0348-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0346-97, 0347-97, 0348-97
folder contains job numbers 0350-97, 0351-97, 0352-97
folder contains job numbers 0350-97, 0351-97, 0352-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0350-97, 0351-97, 0352-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0353-97, 0354-97, 0355-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0353-97, 0354-97, 0355-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0353-97, 0354-97, 0355-97
folder contains job numbers 0356-97, 0357-97, 0359-97
folder contains job numbers 0356-97, 0357-97, 0359-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0356-97, 0357-97, 0359-97; subject details
subject details
folder contains job numbers 0361-97, 0362-97, 0363-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0361-97, 0362-97, 0363-97
folder contains job numbers 0361-97, 0362-97, 0363-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0364-97, 0365-97, 0366-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0364-97, 0365-97, 0366-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0364-97, 0365-97, 0366-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0367-97, 0369-97, 0371-97
folder contains job numbers 0367-97, 0369-97, 0371-97
folder contains job numbers 0367-97, 0369-97, 0371-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0372-97, 0373-97, 0374-97
folder contains job numbers 0372-97, 0373-97, 0374-97
folder contains job numbers 0372-97, 0373-97, 0374-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0376-97, 0377-97, 0378-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0376-97, 0377-97, 0378-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0376-97, 0377-97, 0378-97
folder contains job numbers 0380-97, 0381-97, 0382-97
folder contains job numbers 0380-97, 0381-97, 0382-97
folder contains job numbers 0380-97, 0381-97, 0382-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0383-97, 0384-97, 0385-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0383-97, 0384-97, 0385-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0383-97, 0384-97, 0385-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0386-97, 0387-97, 0388-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0386-97, 0387-97, 0388-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0386-97, 0387-97, 0388-97
folder contains job numbers 0389-97, 0391-97, 0392-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0389-97, 0391-97, 0392-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0389-97, 0391-97, 0392-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0393-97, 0394-97, 0395-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0393-97, 0394-97, 0395-97
folder contains job numbers 0393-97, 0394-97, 0395-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0397-97, 0398-97, 0399-97
folder contains job numbers 0397-97, 0398-97, 0399-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0397-97, 0398-97, 0399-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0400-97, 0401-97, 0402-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0400-97, 0401-97, 0402-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0400-97, 0401-97, 0402-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0403-97, 0404-97, 0405-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0403-97, 0404-97, 0405-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0403-97, 0404-97, 0405-97
folder contains job numbers 0406-97, 0407-97, 0409-97
folder contains job numbers 0406-97, 0407-97, 0409-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0406-97, 0407-97, 0409-97
folder contains job numbers 0410-97, 0411-97, 0412-97
folder contains job numbers 0410-97, 0411-97, 0412-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0410-97, 0411-97, 0412-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0413-97, 0414-97, 016-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0413-97, 0414-97, 016-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0413-97, 0414-97, 016-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0417-97, 0418-97, 0419-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0417-97, 0418-97, 0419-97
folder contains job numbers 0417-97, 0418-97, 0419-97
folder contains job numbers 0420-97, 0421-97, 0422-97
folder contains job numbers 0420-97, 0421-97, 0422-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0420-97, 0421-97, 0422-97
folder contains job numbers 0423-97, 0424-97, 0425-97
folder contains job numbers 0423-97, 0424-97, 0425-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0423-97, 0424-97, 0425-97
folder contains job numbers 0427-97, 0428-97, 0429-97
folder contains job numbers 0427-97, 0428-97, 0429-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0427-97, 0428-97, 0429-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0430-97, 0431-97, 0433-97
folder contains job numbers 0430-97, 0431-97, 0433-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0430-97, 0431-97, 0433-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0434-97, 0436-97, 0437-97
folder contains job numbers 0434-97, 0436-97, 0437-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0434-97, 0436-97, 0437-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0438-97, 0439-97, 0440-97
folder contains job numbers 0438-97, 0439-97, 0440-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0438-97, 0439-97, 0440-97
folder contains job numbers 0441-97, 0442-97, 0443-97
folder contains job numbers 0441-97, 0442-97, 0443-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0441-97, 0442-97, 0443-97
folder contains job numbers 0444-97, 0446-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0444-97, 0446-97
folder contains job numbers 0447-97, 0448-97, 0449-97
folder contains job numbers 0447-97, 0448-97, 0449-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0447-97, 0448-97, 0449-97; subject details
folder contains job numbers 0468-97, 0469-97, 0470-97
folder contains job numbers 0468-97, 0469-97, 0470-97
folder contains job numbers 0471-97, 0472-97, 0473-97
folder contains job numbers 0471-97, 0472-97, 0473-97
folder contains job numbers 0471-97, 0472-97, 0473-97
folder contains job numbers 0474-97, 0475-97
folder contains job numbers 0474-97, 0475-97
folder contains job numbers 0476-97, 0477-97
folder contains job numbers 0476-97, 0477-97
folder contains job numbers 0478-97, 0480-07, 0482-97
folder contains job numbers 0478-97, 0480-07, 0482-97
folder contains job numbers 0478-97, 0480-07, 0482-97
folder contains job numbers 0483-97, 0485-97, 0487-97
folder contains job numbers 0483-97, 0485-97, 0487-97
folder contains job numbers 0483-97, 0485-97, 0487-97
folder contains job numbers 0488-97, 0490-97, 0492-92
folder contains job numbers 0488-97, 0490-97, 0492-92
folder contains job numbers 0488-97, 0490-97, 0492-92
folder contains job numbers 0493-97, 0494-97, 0495-97
folder contains job numbers 0493-97, 0494-97, 0495-97
folder contains job numbers 0493-97, 0494-97, 0495-97
folder contains job numbers 0496-97, 0497-97, 0498-97
folder contains job numbers 0496-97, 0497-97, 0498-97
folder contains job numbers 0496-97, 0497-97, 0498-97
folder contains job numbers 0499-97, 0500-97, 0501-97
folder contains job numbers 0499-97, 0500-97, 0501-97
folder contains job numbers 0499-97, 0500-97, 0501-97
folder contains job numbers 0502-97, 0504-97, 0505-97
folder contains job numbers 0502-97, 0504-97, 0505-97
folder contains job numbers 0502-97, 0504-97, 0505-97
folder contains job numbers 0506-97, 0507-97, 0509-97
folder contains job numbers 0506-97, 0507-97, 0509-97
folder contains job numbers 0506-97, 0507-97, 0509-97
folder contains job numbers 0516-97, 0517-97, 0518-97
folder contains job numbers 0516-97, 0517-97, 0518-97
folder contains job numbers 0516-97, 0517-97, 0518-97
folder contains job numbers 0521-97, 0522-97, 0523-97
folder contains job numbers 0521-97, 0522-97, 0523-97
folder contains job numbers 0521-97, 0522-97, 0523-97
folder contains job numbers 0524-97, 0526-97, 0528-97
folder contains job numbers 0524-97, 0526-97, 0528-97
folder contains job numbers 0524-97, 0526-97, 0528-97
folder contains job numbers 0529-97, 0530-97, 0531-97
folder contains job numbers 0529-97, 0530-97, 0531-97
folder contains job numbers 0529-97, 0530-97, 0531-97
folder contains job numbers 0533-97, 0534-97, 0535-97
folder contains job numbers 0533-97, 0534-97, 0535-97
folder contains job numbers 0533-97, 0534-97, 0535-97
folder contains job numbers 0539-97, 0540-97, 0541-97
folder contains job numbers 0539-97, 0540-97, 0541-97
folder contains job numbers 0539-97, 0540-97, 0541-97
folder contains job numbers 0542-97, 0545-97, 0546-97
folder contains job numbers 0542-97, 0545-97, 0546-97
folder contains job numbers 0542-97, 0545-97, 0546-97
folder contains job numbers 0547-97, 0549-97, 0550-97
folder contains job numbers 0547-97, 0549-97, 0550-97
folder contains job numbers 0547-97, 0549-97, 0550-97
folder contains job numbers 0554-97, 0560-97, 0561-97
folder contains job numbers 0554-97, 0560-97, 0561-97
folder contains job numbers 0554-97, 0560-97, 0561-97
folder contains job numbers 0565-97, 0568-97, 0571-97
folder contains job numbers 0565-97, 0568-97, 0571-98
folder contains job numbers 0565-97, 0568-97, 0571-99
folder contains job numbers 0572-97. 0573-97, 0574-97
folder contains job numbers 0572-97. 0573-97, 0574-97
folder contains job numbers 0572-97. 0573-97, 0574-97
folder contains job numbers 0575-97, 0576-97, 0577-97
folder contains job numbers 0575-97, 0576-97, 0577-97
folder contains job numbers 0575-97, 0576-97, 0577-97
folder contains job numbers 0578-97, 0579-97, 0580-97
folder contains job numbers 0578-97, 0579-97, 0580-97
folder contains job numbers 0578-97, 0579-97, 0580-97
folder contains job numbers 0581-97, 0582-97, 0583-97
folder contains job numbers 0581-97, 0582-97, 0583-97
folder contains job numbers 0581-97, 0582-97, 0583-97
folder contains job numbers 0585-97, 0586-97, 0587-97
folder contains job numbers 0585-97, 0586-97, 0587-97
folder contains job numbers 0585-97, 0586-97, 0587-97
folder contains job numbers 0588-97, 0589-97, 0590-97
folder contains job numbers 0588-97, 0589-97, 0590-97
folder contains job numbers 0588-97, 0589-97, 0590-97
folder contains job numbers 0591-97, 0593-97, 0594-97
folder contains job numbers 0591-97, 0593-97, 0594-97
folder contains job numbers 0591-97, 0593-97, 0594-97
folder contains job numbers 0595-97, 0596-97, 0598-97
folder contains job numbers 0595-97, 0596-97, 0598-97
folder contains job numbers 0595-97, 0596-97, 0598-97
folder contains job numbers 0599-97, 0600-97, 0601-97
folder contains job numbers 0599-97, 0600-97, 0601-97
folder contains job numbers 0599-97, 0600-97, 0601-97
folder contains job numbers 0603-97, 0604-97, 0606-97
folder contains job numbers 0603-97, 0604-97, 0606-97
folder contains job numbers 0603-97, 0604-97, 0606-97
folder contains job numbers 0607-97, 0608-97, 0609-97
folder contains job numbers 0607-97, 0608-97, 0609-97
folder contains job numbers 0607-97, 0608-97, 0609-97
folder contains job number 0610-97
folder contains job numbers 0611-97, 0612-97, 0613-97
folder contains job numbers 0611-97, 0612-97, 0613-97
folder contains job numbers 0611-97, 0612-97, 0613-97
folder contains job numbers 0614-97, 0615-97, 0616-97
folder contains job numbers 0614-97, 0615-97, 0616-97
folder contains job numbers 0614-97, 0615-97, 0616-97
folder contains job numbers 0618-97, 0619-97, 0622-97
folder contains job numbers 0618-97, 0619-97, 0622-97
folder contains job numbers 0618-97, 0619-97, 0622-97
folder contains job numbers 0623-97, 0624-97, 0625-97
folder contains job numbers 0623-97, 0624-97, 0625-97
folder contains job numbers 0623-97, 0624-97, 0625-97
folder contains job numbers 0626-97, 0627-97, 0628-97
folder contains job numbers 0626-97, 0627-97, 0628-97
folder contains job numbers 0626-97, 0627-97, 0628-97
folder contains job numbers 0629-97, 0630-97, 0631-97
folder contains job numbers 0629-97, 0630-97, 0631-97
folder contains job numbers 0629-97, 0630-97, 0631-97
folder contains job numbers 0632-97, 0633-97, 0634-97
folder contains job numbers 0632-97, 0633-97, 0634-97
folder contains job numbers 0632-97, 0633-97, 0634-97
folder contains job numbers 0635-97, 0636-97, 0637-97
folder contains job numbers 0635-97, 0636-97, 0637-97
folder contains job numbers 0635-97, 0636-97, 0637-97
folder contains job numbers 0639-97, 0640-97, 0641-97
folder contains job numbers 0639-97, 0640-97, 0641-97
folder contains job numbers 0639-97, 0640-97, 0641-97
folder contains job numbers 0642-97, 0643-97, 0644-97
folder contains job numbers 0642-97, 0643-97, 0644-97
folder contains job numbers 0642-97, 0643-97, 0644-97
folder contains job numbers 0646-97, 0647-97, 0648-97
folder contains job numbers 0646-97, 0647-97, 0648-97
folder contains job numbers 0646-97, 0647-97, 0648-97
folder contains job numbers 0650-97, 0653-97, 0654-97
folder contains job numbers 0650-97, 0653-97, 0654-97
folder contains job numbers 0650-97, 0653-97, 0654-97
folder contains job numbers 0655-97, 0656-97, 0658-97
folder contains job numbers 0655-97, 0656-97, 0658-97
folder contains job numbers 0655-97, 0656-97, 0658-97
folder contains job numbers 0660-97, 0662-97, 0663-97
folder contains job numbers 0660-97, 0662-97, 0663-97
folder contains job numbers 0660-97, 0662-97, 0663-97
folder contains job numbers 0664-97, 0665-97, 0666-97
folder contains job numbers 0664-97, 0665-97, 0666-97
folder contains job numbers 0664-97, 0665-97, 0666-97
folder contains job numbers 0667-97, 0668-97, 0669-97
folder contains job numbers 0667-97, 0668-97, 0669-97
folder contains job numbers 0667-97, 0668-97, 0669-97
folder contains job numbers 0670-97, 0671-97, 0672-97
folder contains job numbers 0670-97, 0671-97, 0672-97
folder contains job numbers 0670-97, 0671-97, 0672-97
folder contains job numbers 0673-97, 0674-97, 0675-97
folder contains job numbers 0673-97, 0674-97, 0675-97
folder contains job numbers 0673-97, 0674-97, 0675-97
folder contains job numbers 0676-97, 0677-97, 0678-97
folder contains job numbers 0676-97, 0677-97, 0678-97
folder contains job numbers 0676-97, 0677-97, 0678-97
folder contains job numbers 0679-97, 0681-97, 0686-97
folder contains job numbers 0679-97, 0681-97, 0686-97
folder contains job numbers 0679-97, 0681-97, 0686-97
folder contains job numbers 0687-97, 0687-97, 0691-97
folder contains job numbers 0687-97, 0687-97, 0691-97
folder contains job numbers 0687-97, 0687-97, 0691-97
folder contains job numbers 0696-97, 0699-97, 0700-97
folder contains job numbers 0696-97, 0699-97, 0700-97
folder contains job numbers 0696-97, 0699-97, 0700-97
folder contains job numbers 0701-97, 0702-97, 0703-97
folder contains job numbers 0701-97, 0702-97, 0703-97
folder contains job numbers 0701-97, 0702-97, 0703-97
folder contains job numbers 0704-97, 0705-97, 0706-97
folder contains job numbers 0704-97, 0705-97, 0706-97
folder contains job numbers 0704-97, 0705-97, 0706-97
folder contains job numbers 0707-97, 0709-97, 0710-97
folder contains job numbers 0707-97, 0709-97, 0710-97
folder contains job numbers 0707-97, 0709-97, 0710-97
folder contains job numbers 0711-97, 0712-97, 0713-97
folder contains job numbers 0711-97, 0712-97, 0713-97
folder contains job numbers 0711-97, 0712-97, 0713-97
folder contains job numbers 0714-97, 0715-97, 0716-97
folder contains job numbers 0714-97, 0715-97, 0716-97
folder contains job numbers 0714-97, 0715-97, 0716-97
folder contains job numbers 0717-97, 0718-97, 0719-97
folder contains job numbers 0717-97, 0718-97, 0719-97
folder contains job numbers 0717-97, 0718-97, 0719-97
folder contains job number 0720-97
folder contains job numbers 0721-97, 0722-97, 0726-97
folder contains job numbers 0721-97, 0722-97, 0726-97
folder contains job numbers 0721-97, 0722-97, 0726-97
folder contains job numbers 0727-97, 0728-97, 0730-97
folder contains job numbers 0727-97, 0728-97, 0730-97
folder contains job numbers 0727-97, 0728-97, 0730-97
folder contains job numbers 0731-97, 0733-97, 0734-97
folder contains job numbers 0731-97, 0733-97, 0734-97
folder contains job numbers 0731-97, 0733-97, 0734-97
folder contains job numbers 0735-97, 0736-97, 0737-97
folder contains job numbers 0735-97, 0736-97, 0737-97
folder contains job numbers 0735-97, 0736-97, 0737-97
folder contains job number 0740-97
folder contains job numbers 0738-97, 0739-97, 0742-97
folder contains job numbers 0738-97, 0739-97, 0742-97
folder contains job numbers 0738-97, 0739-97, 0742-97
folder contains job numbers 0743-97, 0745-97, 0746-97
folder contains job numbers 0743-97, 0745-97, 0746-97
folder contains job numbers 0743-97, 0745-97, 0746-97
folder contains job numbers 0747-97, 0748-97, 0749-97
folder contains job numbers 0747-97, 0748-97, 0749-97
folder contains job numbers 0747-97, 0748-97, 0749-97
folder contains job numbers 0750-97, 0751-97, 0753-97
folder contains job numbers 0750-97, 0751-97, 0753-97
folder contains job numbers 0750-97, 0751-97, 0753-97
folder contains job numbers 0754-97, 0755-97, 0756-97
folder contains job numbers 0754-97, 0755-97, 0756-97
folder contains job numbers 0754-97, 0755-97, 0756-97
folder contains job numbers 0757-97
folder contains job numbers 0758-97, 0759-97, 0760-97
folder contains job numbers 0758-97, 0759-97, 0760-97
folder contains job numbers 0758-97, 0759-97, 0760-97
folder contains job numbers 0761-97, 0762-97, 0763-97
folder contains job numbers 0761-97, 0762-97, 0763-97
folder contains job numbers 0761-97, 0762-97, 0763-97
folder contains job numbers 0765-97, 0767-97, 0768-97
folder contains job numbers 0765-97, 0767-97, 0768-97
folder contains job numbers 0765-97, 0767-97, 0768-97
folder contains job numbers 0769-97, 0770-97, 0771-97
folder contains job numbers 0769-97, 0770-97, 0771-97
folder contains job numbers 0769-97, 0770-97, 0771-97
folder contains job numbers 0774-97, 0775-97, 0777-97
folder contains job numbers 0774-97, 0775-97, 0777-97
folder contains job numbers 0774-97, 0775-97, 0777-97
folder contains job numbers 0779-97, 0780-97, 0782-97
folder contains job numbers 0779-97, 0780-97, 0782-97
folder contains job numbers 0779-97, 0780-97, 0782-97
folder contains job numbers 0783-97, 0784-97, 0785-97
folder contains job numbers 0783-97, 0784-97, 0785-97
folder contains job numbers 0783-97, 0784-97, 0785-97
folder contains job numbers 0786-97, 0787-97, 0788-97
folder contains job numbers 0786-97, 0787-97, 0788-97
folder contains job numbers 0786-97, 0787-97, 0788-97
folder contains job numbers 0789-97, 0790-97, 0791-97
folder contains job numbers 0789-97, 0790-97, 0791-97
folder contains job numbers 0789-97, 0790-97, 0791-97
folder contains job numbers 0792-97, 0793-97, 0794-97
folder contains job numbers 0792-97, 0793-97, 0794-97
folder contains job numbers 0792-97, 0793-97, 0794-97
folder contains job numbers 0795-97, 0796-97, 0798-97
folder contains job numbers 0795-97, 0796-97, 0798-97
folder contains job numbers 0795-97, 0796-97, 0798-97
folder contains job numbers 0799-97, 0800-97, 0801-97
folder contains job numbers 0799-97, 0800-97, 0801-97
folder contains job numbers 0799-97, 0800-97, 0801-97
folder contains job numbers 0802-97, 0803-87, 0804-07
folder contains job numbers 0802-97, 0803-87, 0804-07
folder contains job numbers 0802-97, 0803-87, 0804-07
folder contains job numbers 0805-97, 0806-97, 0807-97
folder contains job numbers 0805-97, 0806-97, 0807-97
folder contains job numbers 0805-97, 0806-97, 0807-97
folder contains job numbers 0808-97, 0810-97, 0811-97
folder contains job numbers 0808-97, 0810-97, 0811-97
folder contains job numbers 0808-97, 0810-97, 0811-97
folder contains job numbers 0813-97, 0814-97, 0819-97
folder contains job numbers 0813-97, 0814-97, 0819-97
folder contains job numbers 0813-97, 0814-97, 0819-97
folder contains job number 0820-97
folder contains job numbers 0822-97, 0824-97, 0825-97
folder contains job numbers 0822-97, 0824-97, 0825-97
folder contains job numbers 0822-97, 0824-97, 0825-97
folder contains job numbers 0826-97, 0827-97, 0828-97
folder contains job numbers 0826-97, 0827-97, 0828-97
folder contains job numbers 0826-97, 0827-97, 0828-97
folder contains job numbers 0829-97, 0830-97, 0831-97
folder contains job numbers 0829-97, 0830-97, 0831-97
folder contains job numbers 0829-97, 0830-97, 0831-97
folder contains job numbers 0832-97, 0833-97, 0835-97
folder contains job numbers 0832-97, 0833-97, 0835-97
folder contains job numbers 0832-97, 0833-97, 0835-97
folder contains job numbers 0836-97, 0837-97, 0839-97, 0840-97
folder contains job numbers 0836-97, 0837-97, 0839-97, 0840-97
folder contains job numbers 0836-97, 0837-97, 0839-97, 0840-97
folder contains job numbers 0836-97, 0837-97, 0839-97, 0840-97
folder contains job numbers 0842-97, 0843-97, 0845-97
folder contains job numbers 0842-97, 0843-97, 0845-97
folder contains job numbers 0842-97, 0843-97, 0845-97
folder contains job numbers 0847-97, 0848-97, 0849-97
folder contains job numbers 0847-97, 0848-97, 0849-97
folder contains job numbers 0847-97, 0848-97, 0849-97
folder contains job numbers 0850-97, 0852-97, 0853-97
folder contains job numbers 0850-97, 0852-97, 0853-97
folder contains job numbers 0850-97, 0852-97, 0853-97
folder contains job numbers 0854-97, 0855-97, 0856-97
folder contains job numbers 0854-97, 0855-97, 0856-97
folder contains job numbers 0854-97, 0855-97, 0856-97
folder contains job number 0848-97
folder contains job numbers 0860-97, 0861-97, 0862-97
folder contains job numbers 0860-97, 0861-97, 0862-97
folder contains job numbers 0860-97, 0861-97, 0862-97
folder contains job number 0863-97
folder contains job numbers 0865-97, 0867-97, 0868-97
folder contains job numbers 0865-97, 0867-97, 0868-97
folder contains job numbers 0865-97, 0867-97, 0868-97
folder contains job numbers 0869-97, 0870-97
folder contains job numbers 0869-97, 0870-97
folder contains job numbers 0872-97, 0872-97, 0873-97
folder contains job numbers 0872-97, 0872-97, 0873-97
folder contains job numbers 0872-97, 0872-97, 0873-97
folder contains job numbers 0874-97, 0875-97, 0876-97
folder contains job numbers 0874-97, 0875-97, 0876-97
folder contains job numbers 0874-97, 0875-97, 0876-97
folder contains job numbers 0878-97, 0883-97, 0884-97
folder contains job numbers 0878-97, 0883-97, 0884-97
folder contains job numbers 0878-97, 0883-97, 0884-97
folder contains job numbers 0885-97, 0886-97, 0887-97
folder contains job numbers 0885-97, 0886-97, 0887-97
folder contains job numbers 0885-97, 0886-97, 0887-97
folder contains job numbers 0888-97, 0889-97, 0890-97
folder contains job numbers 0888-97, 0889-97, 0890-97
folder contains job numbers 0888-97, 0889-97, 0890-97
folder contains job numbers 0891-97, 0892-97, 0893-97
folder contains job numbers 0891-97, 0892-97, 0893-97
folder contains job numbers 0891-97, 0892-97, 0893-97
folder contains job numbers 0894-97, 0895-97, 0896-97
folder contains job numbers 0894-97, 0895-97, 0896-97
folder contains job numbers 0894-97, 0895-97, 0896-97
folder contains job numbers 0899-97, 0900-97, 0901-97
folder contains job numbers 0899-97, 0900-97, 0901-97
folder contains job numbers 0899-97, 0900-97, 0901-97
folder contains job numbers 0902-97, 0903-97, 0904-97
folder contains job numbers 0902-97, 0903-97, 0904-97
folder contains job numbers 0902-97, 0903-97, 0904-97
folder contains job numbers 0905-97, 0906-97, 0907-97
folder contains job numbers 0905-97, 0906-97, 0907-97
folder contains job numbers 0905-97, 0906-97, 0907-97
folder contains job numbers 0908-97, 0909-97, 0910-97
folder contains job numbers 0908-97, 0909-97, 0910-97
folder contains job numbers 0908-97, 0909-97, 0910-97
folder contains job numbers 0911-97, 0912-97, 0913-97
folder contains job numbers 0911-97, 0912-97, 0913-97
folder contains job numbers 0911-97, 0912-97, 0913-97
folder contains job numbers 0914-97, 0915-97, 0916-97
folder contains job numbers 0914-97, 0915-97, 0916-97
folder contains job numbers 0914-97, 0915-97, 0916-97
folder contains job numbers 0917-97, 0918-97, 0920-97
folder contains job numbers 0917-97, 0918-97, 0920-97
folder contains job numbers 0917-97, 0918-97, 0920-97
folder contains job numbers 0921-97, 0922-97, 0923-97
folder contains job numbers 0921-97, 0922-97, 0923-97
folder contains job numbers 0921-97, 0922-97, 0923-97
folder contains job numbers 0924-97, 0925-97, 0926-97
folder contains job numbers 0924-97, 0925-97, 0926-97
folder contains job numbers 0924-97, 0925-97, 0926-97
folder contains job numbers 0927-97, 0929-97, 0930-97
folder contains job numbers 0927-97, 0929-97, 0930-97
folder contains job numbers 0927-97, 0929-97, 0930-97
folder contains job numbers 0931-97, 0932-97, 0934-97
folder contains job numbers 0931-97, 0932-97, 0934-97
folder contains job numbers 0931-97, 0932-97, 0934-97
folder contains job numbers 0935-97, 0937-97, 0938-97
folder contains job numbers 0935-97, 0937-97, 0938-97
folder contains job numbers 0935-97, 0937-97, 0938-97
folder contains job numbers 0939-97, 0940-97, 0941-97
folder contains job numbers 0939-97, 0940-97, 0941-97
folder contains job numbers 0939-97, 0940-97, 0941-97
folder contains job numbers 0942-97, 0943-97, 0944-97
folder contains job numbers 0942-97, 0943-97, 0944-97
folder contains job numbers 0942-97, 0943-97, 0944-97
folder contains job numbers 0945-97, 0946-97, 0947-97
folder contains job numbers 0945-97, 0946-97, 0947-97
folder contains job numbers 0945-97, 0946-97, 0947-97
folder contains job numbers 0948-97, 0949-97, 0950-97
folder contains job numbers 0948-97, 0949-97, 0950-97
folder contains job numbers 0948-97, 0949-97, 0950-97
folder contains job numbers 0951-97, 0953-97, 0954-97
folder contains job numbers 0951-97, 0953-97, 0954-97
folder contains job numbers 0951-97, 0953-97, 0954-97
folder contains job numbers 0955-97, 0956-97, 0957-97
folder contains job numbers 0955-97, 0956-97, 0957-97
folder contains job numbers 0955-97, 0956-97, 0957-97
folder contains job numbers 0959-97, 0961-97, 0962-97
folder contains job numbers 0959-97, 0961-97, 0962-97
folder contains job numbers 0959-97, 0961-97, 0962-97
folder contains job numbers 0964-97, 0965-97, 0966-97
folder contains job numbers 0964-97, 0965-97, 0966-97
folder contains job numbers 0964-97, 0965-97, 0966-97
folder contains job numbers 0967-97, 0968-97, 0970-97
folder contains job numbers 0967-97, 0968-97, 0970-97
folder contains job numbers 0967-97, 0968-97, 0970-97
folder contains job numbers 0971-97, 0972-97, 0974-97
folder contains job numbers 0971-97, 0972-97, 0974-97
folder contains job numbers 0971-97, 0972-97, 0974-97
folder contains job numbers 0975-97, 0976-97, 0977-97
folder contains job numbers 0975-97, 0976-97, 0977-97
folder contains job numbers 0975-97, 0976-97, 0977-97
folder contains job numbers 0978-97, 0982-97, 0982-97
folder contains job numbers 0978-97, 0982-97, 0982-97
folder contains job numbers 0978-97, 0982-97, 0982-97
folder contains job numbers 0983-97, 0984-97, 0985-97
folder contains job numbers 0983-97, 0984-97, 0985-97
folder contains job numbers 0983-97, 0984-97, 0985-97
folder contains job numbers 0986-97, 0988-97, 0989-97
folder contains job numbers 0986-97, 0988-97, 0989-97
folder contains job numbers 0986-97, 0988-97, 0989-97
folder contains job numbers 0990-97, 0991-97, 0992-97
folder contains job numbers 0990-97, 0991-97, 0992-97
folder contains job numbers 0990-97, 0991-97, 0992-97
folder contains job numbers 0993-97, 0994-97, 0995-97
folder contains job numbers 0993-97, 0994-97, 0995-97
folder contains job numbers 0993-97, 0994-97, 0995-97
folder contains job numbers 0996-97, 0998-97, 0999-97
folder contains job numbers 0996-97, 0998-97, 0999-97
folder contains job numbers 0996-97, 0998-97, 0999-97
folder contains job numbers 1000-97, 1001-97, 1002-97
folder contains job numbers 1000-97, 1001-97, 1002-97
folder contains job numbers 1000-97, 1001-97, 1002-97
folder contains job numbers 1003-97, 1004-97, 1005-97
folder contains job numbers 1003-97, 1004-97, 1005-97
folder contains job numbers 1003-97, 1004-97, 1005-97
folder contains job numbers 1007-97, 1008-97, 1009-97
folder contains job numbers 1007-97, 1008-97, 1009-97
folder contains job numbers 1007-97, 1008-97, 1009-97
folder contains job numbers 1011-97, 1012-97, 1013-97
folder contains job numbers 1011-97, 1012-97, 1013-97
folder contains job numbers 1011-97, 1012-97, 1013-97
folder contains job numbers 1015-97, 1016-97, 1017-97
folder contains job numbers 1015-97, 1016-97, 1017-97
folder contains job numbers 1015-97, 1016-97, 1017-97
folder contains job numbers 1018-97, 1019-97, 1020-97
folder contains job numbers 1018-97, 1019-97, 1020-97
folder contains job numbers 1018-97, 1019-97, 1020-97
folder contains job numbers 1021-97, 1023-97, 1025-97
folder contains job numbers 1021-97, 1023-97, 1025-97
folder contains job numbers 1021-97, 1023-97, 1025-97
folder contains job numbers 1026-97, 1027-97, 1028-97
folder contains job numbers 1026-97, 1027-97, 1028-97
folder contains job numbers 1026-97, 1027-97, 1028-97
folder contains job numbers 1031-97, 1032-97, 1033-97
folder contains job numbers 1031-97, 1032-97, 1033-97
folder contains job numbers 1031-97, 1032-97, 1033-97
folder contains job numbers 1034-97, 1035-97, 1038-97
folder contains job numbers 1034-97, 1035-97, 1038-97
folder contains job numbers 1034-97, 1035-97, 1038-97
folder contains job numbers 1040-97, 1041-97, 1042-97
folder contains job numbers 1040-97, 1041-97, 1042-97
folder contains job numbers 1040-97, 1041-97, 1042-97
folder contains job numbers 1043-97, 1045-97, 1046-97
folder contains job numbers 1043-97, 1045-97, 1046-97
folder contains job numbers 1043-97, 1045-97, 1046-97
folder contains job numbers 1047-97
folder contains job numbers 1049-97, 1050-97, 1051-97
folder contains job numbers 1049-97, 1050-97, 1051-97
folder contains job numbers 1049-97, 1050-97, 1051-97
folder contains job numbers 1053-97, 1054-97, 1055-97
folder contains job numbers 1053-97, 1054-97, 1055-97
folder contains job numbers 1053-97, 1054-97, 1055-97
folder contains job numbers 1056-97, 1057-97, 1058-97
folder contains job numbers 1056-97, 1057-97, 1058-97
folder contains job numbers 1056-97, 1057-97, 1058-97
folder contains job numbers 1059-97, 1060-97, 1061-97
folder contains job numbers 1059-97, 1060-97, 1061-97
folder contains job numbers 1059-97, 1060-97, 1061-97
folder contains job numbers 1062-97, 1064-97, 1065-97
folder contains job numbers 1062-97, 1064-97, 1065-97
folder contains job numbers 1062-97, 1064-97, 1065-97
folder contains job numbers 1066-97, 1067-97, 1068-97
folder contains job numbers 1066-97, 1067-97, 1068-97
folder contains job numbers 1066-97, 1067-97, 1068-97
folder contains job numbers 1069-97, 1070-97, 1071-97
folder contains job numbers 1069-97, 1070-97, 1071-97
folder contains job numbers 1069-97, 1070-97, 1071-97
folder contains job numbers 1072-97, 1073-97, 1074-97
folder contains job numbers 1072-97, 1073-97, 1074-97
folder contains job numbers 1072-97, 1073-97, 1074-97
folder contains job numbers 1077-97, 1079-97, 1083-97
folder contains job numbers 1077-97, 1079-97, 1083-97
folder contains job numbers 1077-97, 1079-97, 1083-97
folder contains job numbers 1085-97, 1086-97, 1087-97
folder contains job numbers 1085-97, 1086-97, 1087-97
folder contains job numbers 1085-97, 1086-97, 1087-97
folder contains job numbers 1090-97
folder contains job numbers 1088-97, 1089-97, 1091-97
folder contains job numbers 1088-97, 1089-97, 1091-97
folder contains job numbers 1088-97, 1089-97, 1091-97
folder contains job numbers 1093-97, 1096-97, 1097-97
folder contains job numbers 1093-97, 1096-97, 1097-97
folder contains job numbers 1093-97, 1096-97, 1097-97
folder contains job numbers 1098-97, 1099-97, 1100-97
folder contains job numbers 1098-97, 1099-97, 1100-97
folder contains job numbers 1098-97, 1099-97, 1100-97
folder contains job numbers 1101-97, 1102-97, 1104-97
folder contains job numbers 1101-97, 1102-97, 1104-97
folder contains job numbers 1101-97, 1102-97, 1104-97
folder contains job numbers 1106-97, 1107-97, 1108-97
folder contains job numbers 1106-97, 1107-97, 1108-97
folder contains job numbers 1106-97, 1107-97, 1108-97
folder contains job numbers 1109-97, 1113-97, 1114-97
folder contains job numbers 1109-97, 1113-97, 1114-97
folder contains job numbers 1109-97, 1113-97, 1114-97
folder contains job numbers 1115-97, 1116-97, 1118-97
folder contains job numbers 1115-97, 1116-97, 1118-97
folder contains job numbers 1115-97, 1116-97, 1118-97
folder contains job numbers 1119-97, 1120-97, 1121-97
folder contains job numbers 1119-97, 1120-97, 1121-97
folder contains job numbers 1119-97, 1120-97, 1121-97
folder contains job numbers 1122-97, 1123-97, 1124-97
folder contains job numbers 1122-97, 1123-97, 1124-97
folder contains job numbers 1122-97, 1123-97, 1124-97
folder contains job numbers 1125-97, 1126-97, 1127-97
folder contains job numbers 1125-97, 1126-97, 1127-97
folder contains job numbers 1125-97, 1126-97, 1127-97
folder contains job numbers 1128-97, 1131-97, 1132-97
folder contains job numbers 1128-97, 1131-97, 1132-97
folder contains job numbers 1128-97, 1131-97, 1132-97
folder contains job numbers 1133-97 1134-97, 1135-97
folder contains job numbers 1133-97 1134-97, 1135-97
folder contains job numbers 1133-97 1134-97, 1135-97
folder contains job numbers 1136-97, 1137-97, 1140-97
folder contains job numbers 1136-97, 1137-97, 1140-97
folder contains job numbers 1136-97, 1137-97, 1140-97
folder contains job numbers 1144-97, 1145-97, 1146-97
folder contains job numbers 1144-97, 1145-97, 1146-97
folder contains job numbers 1144-97, 1145-97, 1146-97
folder contains job numbers 1147-97, 1148-97, 1154-97
folder contains job numbers 1147-97, 1148-97, 1154-97
folder contains job numbers 1147-97, 1148-97, 1154-97
folder contains job numbers 1156-97, 1157-97, 1158-97
folder contains job numbers 1156-97, 1157-97, 1158-97
folder contains job numbers 1156-97, 1157-97, 1158-97
folder contains job numbers 1160-97, 1161-97, 1162-97
folder contains job numbers 1160-97, 1161-97, 1162-97
folder contains job numbers 1160-97, 1161-97, 1162-97
folder contains job numbers 1163-97, 1164-97, 1165-97
folder contains job numbers 1163-97, 1164-97, 1165-97
folder contains job numbers 1163-97, 1164-97, 1165-97
folder contains job numbers 1166-97, 1167-97, 1168-97
folder contains job numbers 1166-97, 1167-97, 1168-97
folder contains job numbers 1166-97, 1167-97, 1168-97
folder contains job numbers 1169-97, 1170-97, 1172-97
folder contains job numbers 1169-97, 1170-97, 1172-97
folder contains job numbers 1169-97, 1170-97, 1172-97
folder contains job numbers 1173-97, 1174-97, 1175-97
folder contains job numbers 1173-97, 1174-97, 1175-97
folder contains job numbers 1173-97, 1174-97, 1175-97
folder contains job numbers 1177-97, 1178-97, 1179-97
folder contains job numbers 1177-97, 1178-97, 1179-97
folder contains job numbers 1177-97, 1178-97, 1179-97
folder contains job numbers 1181-97, 1183-97, 1184-97
folder contains job numbers 1181-97, 1183-97, 1184-97
folder contains job numbers 1181-97, 1183-97, 1184-97
folder contains job numbers 1185-97, 1186-97, 1187-97
folder contains job numbers 1185-97, 1186-97, 1187-97
folder contains job numbers 1185-97, 1186-97, 1187-97
folder contains job numbers 1188-97
folder contains job numbers 1193-97, 1196-97, 1197-97
folder contains job numbers 1193-97, 1196-97, 1197-97
folder contains job numbers 1193-97, 1196-97, 1197-97
folder contains job numbers 1198-97, 1205-97, 1206-97
folder contains job numbers 1198-97, 1205-97, 1206-97
folder contains job numbers 1198-97, 1205-97, 1206-97
folder contains job numbers 1207-97, 1208-97, 1209-97
folder contains job numbers 1207-97, 1208-97, 1209-97
folder contains job numbers 1207-97, 1208-97, 1209-97
folder contains job numbers 1210-97, 1211-97, 1212-97
folder contains job numbers 1210-97, 1211-97, 1212-97
folder contains job numbers 1210-97, 1211-97, 1212-97
folder contains job numbers 1213-97, 1214-97, 1215-97
folder contains job numbers 1213-97, 1214-97, 1215-97
folder contains job numbers 1213-97, 1214-97, 1215-97
folder contains job numbers 1217-97, 1219-97, 1220-97
folder contains job numbers 1217-97, 1219-97, 1220-97
folder contains job numbers 1217-97, 1219-97, 1220-97
folder contains job numbers 1221-97, 1222-97, 1223-97
folder contains job numbers 1221-97, 1222-97, 1223-97
folder contains job numbers 1221-97, 1222-97, 1223-97
folder contains job numbers 1225-97, 1226-97, 1227-97
folder contains job numbers 1225-97, 1226-97, 1227-97
folder contains job numbers 1225-97, 1226-97, 1227-97
folder contains job numbers 1228-97, 1229-97, 1230-97
folder contains job numbers 1228-97, 1229-97, 1230-97
folder contains job numbers 1228-97, 1229-97, 1230-97
folder contains job numbers 1231-97, 1232-97, 1233-97
folder contains job numbers 1231-97, 1232-97, 1233-97
folder contains job numbers 1231-97, 1232-97, 1233-97
folder contains job numbers 1233-97, 1234-97, 1235-97
folder contains job numbers 1233-97, 1234-97, 1235-97
folder contains job numbers 1233-97, 1234-97, 1235-97
folder contains job numbers 1236-97, 1237-97, 1239-97
folder contains job numbers 1236-97, 1237-97, 1239-97
folder contains job numbers 1236-97, 1237-97, 1239-97
folder contains job numbers 1242-97, 1244-97, 1246-97
folder contains job numbers 1242-97, 1244-97, 1246-97
folder contains job numbers 1242-97, 1244-97, 1246-97
folder contains job numbers 1249-97, 1250-97, 1251-97
folder contains job numbers 1249-97, 1250-97, 1251-97
folder contains job numbers 1249-97, 1250-97, 1251-97
folder contains job numbers 1254-97, 1256-97, 1257-97
folder contains job numbers 1254-97, 1256-97, 1257-97
folder contains job numbers 1254-97, 1256-97, 1257-97
folder contains job numbers 1264-97, 1265-97, 1266-97
folder contains job numbers 1264-97, 1265-97, 1266-97
folder contains job numbers 1264-97, 1265-97, 1266-97
folder contains job numbers 1267-97, 1268-97, 1269-97
folder contains job numbers 1267-97, 1268-97, 1269-97
folder contains job numbers 1267-97, 1268-97, 1269-97
folder contains job numbers 1270-97, 1271-97, 1272-97
folder contains job numbers 1270-97, 1271-97, 1272-97
folder contains job numbers 1270-97, 1271-97, 1272-97
folder contains job numbers 1273-97, 1274-97, 1275-97
folder contains job numbers 1273-97, 1274-97, 1275-97
folder contains job numbers 1273-97, 1274-97, 1275-97
folder contains job numbers 1276-97, 1277-97, 1278-97
folder contains job numbers 1276-97, 1277-97, 1278-97
folder contains job numbers 1276-97, 1277-97, 1278-97
folder contains job numbers 1279-97, 1280-97, 1280-97
folder contains job numbers 1279-97, 1280-97, 1280-97
folder contains job numbers 1279-97, 1280-97, 1280-97
folder contains job numbers 1281-97, 1284-97, 1285-97
folder contains job numbers 1281-97, 1284-97, 1285-97
folder contains job numbers 1281-97, 1284-97, 1285-97
folder contains job numbers 1286-97, 1287-97, 1288-97
folder contains job numbers 1286-97, 1287-97, 1288-97
folder contains job numbers 1286-97, 1287-97, 1288-97
folder contains job numbers 1289-97, 1290-97, 1291-97
folder contains job numbers 1289-97, 1290-97, 1291-97
folder contains job numbers 1289-97, 1290-97, 1291-97
folder contains job numbers 1292-97, 1293-97, 1294-97
folder contains job numbers 1292-97, 1293-97, 1294-97
folder contains job numbers 1292-97, 1293-97, 1294-97
folder contains job numbers 1295-97, 1296-97, 1297-97
folder contains job numbers 1295-97, 1296-97, 1297-97
folder contains job numbers 1295-97, 1296-97, 1297-97
folder contains job numbers 1298-97
folder contains job numbers 1299-97, 1300-97, 1301-97
folder contains job numbers 1299-97, 1300-97, 1301-97
folder contains job numbers 1299-97, 1300-97, 1301-97
folder contains job numbers 1302-97, 1302-97, 1303-97
folder contains job numbers 1302-97, 1302-97, 1303-97
folder contains job numbers 1302-97, 1302-97, 1303-97
folder contains job numbers 1304-97, 1305-97, 1306-97
folder contains job numbers 1304-97, 1305-97, 1306-97
folder contains job numbers 1304-97, 1305-97, 1306-97
folder contains job numbers 1309-97, 1310-97
folder contains job numbers 1309-97, 1310-97
folder contains job numbers 0001-98, 0002-98, 0003-98
folder contains job numbers 0001-98, 0002-98, 0003-98
folder contains job numbers 0001-98, 0002-98, 0003-98
folder contains job numbers 0004-98, 0005-98, 0006-98
folder contains job numbers 0004-98, 0005-98, 0006-98
folder contains job numbers 0004-98, 0005-98, 0006-98
folder contains job numbers 0008-98, 0009-98, 0010-98
folder contains job numbers 0008-98, 0009-98, 0010-98
folder contains job numbers 0008-98, 0009-98, 0010-98
folder contains job numbers 0011-98, 0013-98, 0014-98
folder contains job numbers 0011-98, 0013-98, 0014-98
folder contains job numbers 0011-98, 0013-98, 0014-98
folder contains job numbers 0017-98, 0019-98, 0020-98
folder contains job numbers 0017-98, 0019-98, 0020-98
folder contains job numbers 0017-98, 0019-98, 0020-98
folder contains job numbers 0021-98, 0022-98, 0023-98
folder contains job numbers 0021-98, 0022-98, 0023-98
folder contains job numbers 0021-98, 0022-98, 0023-98
folder contains job numbers 0024-98, 0025-98, 0026-98
folder contains job numbers 0024-98, 0025-98, 0026-98
folder contains job numbers 0024-98, 0025-98, 0026-98
folder contains job numbers 0029-98, 0031-98, 0034-98
folder contains job numbers 0029-98, 0031-98, 0034-98
folder contains job numbers 0029-98, 0031-98, 0034-98
folder contains job numbers 0037-98, 0038-98, 0039-98
folder contains job numbers 0037-98, 0038-98, 0039-98
folder contains job numbers 0037-98, 0038-98, 0039-98
folder contains job numbers 0041-98, 0042-98, 0044-98
folder contains job numbers 0041-98, 0042-98, 0044-98
folder contains job numbers 0041-98, 0042-98, 0044-98
folder contains job numbers 0045-98, 0047-98, 0049-98
folder contains job numbers 0045-98, 0047-98, 0049-98
folder contains job numbers 0045-98, 0047-98, 0049-98
folder contains job numbers 0050-98, 0052-98, 0053-98
folder contains job numbers 0050-98, 0052-98, 0053-98
folder contains job numbers 0050-98, 0052-98, 0053-98
folder contains job numbers 0054-98, 0056-98, 0057-98
folder contains job numbers 0054-98, 0056-98, 0057-98
folder contains job numbers 0054-98, 0056-98, 0057-98
folder contains job numbers 0058-98, 0060-98, 0061-98
folder contains job numbers 0058-98, 0060-98, 0061-98
folder contains job numbers 0058-98, 0060-98, 0061-98
folder contains job numbers 0063-98, 0064-98, 0065-98
folder contains job numbers 0063-98, 0064-98, 0065-98
folder contains job numbers 0063-98, 0064-98, 0065-98
folder contains job numbers 0066-98, 0067-98, 0068-98
folder contains job numbers 0066-98, 0067-98, 0068-98
folder contains job numbers 0066-98, 0067-98, 0068-98
folder contains job numbers 0068-98, 0070-98, 0071-98
folder contains job numbers 0068-98, 0070-98, 0071-98
folder contains job numbers 0068-98, 0070-98, 0071-98
folder contains job numbers 0072-98, 0074-98, 0076-98
folder contains job numbers 0072-98, 0074-98, 0076-98
folder contains job numbers 0072-98, 0074-98, 0076-98
folder contains job numbers 0078-98
folder contains job numbers 0079-98, 0080-98, 0081-98
folder contains job numbers 0079-98, 0080-98, 0081-98
folder contains job numbers 0079-98, 0080-98, 0081-98
folder contains job numbers 0083-98, 0084-98, 0086-98
folder contains job numbers 0083-98, 0084-98, 0086-98
folder contains job numbers 0083-98, 0084-98, 0086-98
folder contains job numbers 0087-98, 0088-98, 0089-98
folder contains job numbers 0087-98, 0088-98, 0089-98
folder contains job numbers 0087-98, 0088-98, 0089-98
folder contains job numbers 0091-98, 0092-98, 0093-98
folder contains job numbers 0091-98, 0092-98, 0093-98
folder contains job numbers 0091-98, 0092-98, 0093-98
folder contains job numbers 0094-98, 0095-98, 0096-98
folder contains job numbers 0094-98, 0095-98, 0096-98
folder contains job numbers 0094-98, 0095-98, 0096-98
folder contains job numbers 0097-98, 0100-98, 0101-98
folder contains job numbers 0097-98, 0100-98, 0101-98
folder contains job numbers 0097-98, 0100-98, 0101-98
folder contains job numbers 0102-98, 0103-98, 0104-98
folder contains job numbers 0102-98, 0103-98, 0104-98
folder contains job numbers 0102-98, 0103-98, 0104-98
folder contains job numbers 0105-98, 0107-98, 0109-98
folder contains job numbers 0105-98, 0107-98, 0109-98
folder contains job numbers 0105-98, 0107-98, 0109-98
folder contains job numbers 0110-98, 0111-98, 0114-98
folder contains job numbers 0110-98, 0111-98, 0114-98
folder contains job numbers 0110-98, 0111-98, 0114-98
folder contains job numbers 0115-98, 0116-98, 0117-98
folder contains job numbers 0115-98, 0116-98, 0117-98
folder contains job numbers 0115-98, 0116-98, 0117-98
folder contains job numbers 0118-98, 0119-98, 0120-98
folder contains job numbers 0118-98, 0119-98, 0120-98
folder contains job numbers 0118-98, 0119-98, 0120-98
folder contains job numbers 0122-98, 0123-98, 0125-98
folder contains job numbers 0122-98, 0123-98, 0125-98
folder contains job numbers 0122-98, 0123-98, 0125-98
folder contains job numbers 0126-98, 0128-98, 0129-98
folder contains job numbers 0126-98, 0128-98, 0129-98
folder contains job numbers 0126-98, 0128-98, 0129-98
folder contains job numbers 0130-98, 0133-98, 0134-98
folder contains job numbers 0130-98, 0133-98, 0134-98
folder contains job numbers 0130-98, 0133-98, 0134-98
folder contains job numbers 0135-98, 0137-98, 0138-98
folder contains job numbers 0135-98, 0137-98, 0138-98
folder contains job numbers 0135-98, 0137-98, 0138-98
folder contains job numbers 0139-98
folder contains job numbers 0140-98, 0141-98
folder contains job numbers 0140-98, 0141-98
folder contains job numbers 0142-98, 0145-98, 0146-98
folder contains job numbers 0142-98, 0145-98, 0146-98
folder contains job numbers 0142-98, 0145-98, 0146-98
folder contains job numbers 0147-98
folder contains job numbers 0148-98, 0149-98
folder contains job numbers 0148-98, 0149-98
folder contains job numbers 0151-98, 0152-98, 0153-98
folder contains job numbers 0151-98, 0152-98, 0153-98
folder contains job numbers 0151-98, 0152-98, 0153-98
folder contains job numbers 0154-98, 0155-98, 0158-98
folder contains job numbers 0154-98, 0155-98, 0158-98
folder contains job numbers 0154-98, 0155-98, 0158-98
folder contains job numbers 0159-98, 0160-98, 0161-98
folder contains job numbers 0159-98, 0160-98, 0161-98
folder contains job numbers 0159-98, 0160-98, 0161-98
folder contains job numbers 0164-98, 0165-98
folder contains job numbers 0164-98, 0165-98
folder contains job numbers 0167-98
folder contains job numbers 0168-98, 0169-98, 0171-98
folder contains job numbers 0168-98, 0169-98, 0171-98
folder contains job numbers 0168-98, 0169-98, 0171-98
folder contains job numbers 0173-98, 0176-98, 0177-98
folder contains job numbers 0173-98, 0176-98, 0177-98
folder contains job numbers 0173-98, 0176-98, 0177-98
folder contains job numbers 0178-98, 0180-98, 0181-98
folder contains job numbers 0178-98, 0180-98, 0181-98
folder contains job numbers 0178-98, 0180-98, 0181-98
folder contains job numbers 0183-98, 0184-98, 0186-98
folder contains job numbers 0183-98, 0184-98, 0186-98
folder contains job numbers 0183-98, 0184-98, 0186-98
folder contains job numbers 0187-98, 0188-98, 0189-98
folder contains job numbers 0187-98, 0188-98, 0189-98
folder contains job numbers 0187-98, 0188-98, 0189-98
folder contains job numbers 0190-98, 0191-98, 0192-98
folder contains job numbers 0190-98, 0191-98, 0192-98
folder contains job numbers 0190-98, 0191-98, 0192-98
folder contains job numbers 0193-98, 0194-98, 0195-98
folder contains job numbers 0193-98, 0194-98, 0195-98
folder contains job numbers 0193-98, 0194-98, 0195-98
folder contains job numbers 0196-98, 0197-98, 0198-98
folder contains job numbers 0196-98, 0197-98, 0198-98
folder contains job numbers 0196-98, 0197-98, 0198-98
folder contains job numbers 0199-98, 0202-98, 0203-98
folder contains job numbers 0199-98, 0202-98, 0203-98
folder contains job numbers 0199-98, 0202-98, 0203-98
folder contains job numbers 0204-98, 0205-98
folder contains job numbers 0204-98, 0205-98
folder contains job numbers 0207-98, 0208-98
folder contains job numbers 0207-98, 0208-98
folder contains job numbers 0211-98, 0212-98, 0213-98
folder contains job numbers 0211-98, 0212-98, 0213-98
folder contains job numbers 0211-98, 0212-98, 0213-98
folder contains job numbers 0214-98, 0215-98, 0216-98
folder contains job numbers 0214-98, 0215-98, 0216-98
folder contains job numbers 0214-98, 0215-98, 0216-98
folder contains job numbers 0217-98, 0218-97, 0219-98
folder contains job numbers 0217-98, 0218-97, 0219-98
folder contains job numbers 0217-98, 0218-97, 0219-98
folder contains job numbers 0220-98, 0221-98, 0223-98
folder contains job numbers 0220-98, 0221-98, 0223-98
folder contains job numbers 0220-98, 0221-98, 0223-98
folder contains job numbers 0226-98, 0229-98, 0230-98
folder contains job numbers 0226-98, 0229-98, 0230-98
folder contains job numbers 0226-98, 0229-98, 0230-98
folder contains job numbers 0232-98, 0232-98, 0234-98
folder contains job numbers 0232-98, 0232-98, 0234-98
folder contains job numbers 0232-98, 0232-98, 0234-98
folder contains job numbers 0238-98, 0239-98, 0240-98
folder contains job numbers 0238-98, 0239-98, 0240-98
folder contains job numbers 0238-98, 0239-98, 0240-98
folder contains job numbers 0243-98, 0244-98, 0245-98
folder contains job numbers 0243-98, 0244-98, 0245-98
folder contains job numbers 0243-98, 0244-98, 0245-98
folder contains job numbers 0247-98, 0248-98, 0249-98
folder contains job numbers 0247-98, 0248-98, 0249-98
folder contains job numbers 0247-98, 0248-98, 0249-98
folder contains job numbers 0250-98, 0251-98, 0252-98
folder contains job numbers 0250-98, 0251-98, 0252-98
folder contains job numbers 0250-98, 0251-98, 0252-98
folder contains job numbers 0253-98, 0254-98, 0255-98
folder contains job numbers 0253-98, 0254-98, 0255-98
folder contains job numbers 0253-98, 0254-98, 0255-98
folder contains job numbers 0256-98, 0257-98, 0258-98
folder contains job numbers 0256-98, 0257-98, 0258-98
folder contains job numbers 0256-98, 0257-98, 0258-98
folder contains job numbers 0259-98, 0261-98, 0262-98
folder contains job numbers 0259-98, 0261-98, 0262-98
folder contains job numbers 0259-98, 0261-98, 0262-98
folder contains job numbers 0263-98, 0264-98, 0266-98
folder contains job numbers 0263-98, 0264-98, 0266-98
folder contains job numbers 0263-98, 0264-98, 0266-98
folder contains job numbers 0268-98, 0269-98, 0270-98
folder contains job numbers 0268-98, 0269-98, 0270-98
folder contains job numbers 0268-98, 0269-98, 0270-98
folder contains job numbers 0271-98, 0272-98, 0273-98
folder contains job numbers 0271-98, 0272-98, 0273-98
folder contains job numbers 0271-98, 0272-98, 0273-98
folder contains job numbers 0274-98, 0275-98, 0276-98
folder contains job numbers 0274-98, 0275-98, 0276-98
folder contains job numbers 0274-98, 0275-98, 0276-98
folder contains job numbers 0277-98, 0278-98, 0279-98
folder contains job numbers 0277-98, 0278-98, 0279-98
folder contains job numbers 0277-98, 0278-98, 0279-98
folder contains job numbers 0280-98, 0281-98, 0282-98
folder contains job numbers 0280-98, 0281-98, 0282-98
folder contains job numbers 0280-98, 0281-98, 0282-98
folder contains job numbers 0284-98, 0285-98, 0286-98
folder contains job numbers 0284-98, 0285-98, 0286-98
folder contains job numbers 0284-98, 0285-98, 0286-98
folder contains job numbers 0290-98, 0291-98, 0292-98
folder contains job numbers 0290-98, 0291-98, 0292-98
folder contains job numbers 0290-98, 0291-98, 0292-98
folder contains job numbers 0293-98, 0294-98, 0296-98
folder contains job numbers 0293-98, 0294-98, 0296-98
folder contains job numbers 0293-98, 0294-98, 0296-98
folder contains job numbers 0297-98, 0298-98, 0299-98
folder contains job numbers 0297-98, 0298-98, 0299-98
folder contains job numbers 0297-98, 0298-98, 0299-98
folder contains job numbers 0304-98, 0306-98, 0307-98
folder contains job numbers 0304-98, 0306-98, 0307-98
folder contains job numbers 0304-98, 0306-98, 0307-98
folder contains job numbers 0311-98, 0313-98, 0314-98
folder contains job numbers 0311-98, 0313-98, 0314-98
folder contains job numbers 0311-98, 0313-98, 0314-98
folder contains job numbers 0315-98, 0316-98, 0321-98
folder contains job numbers 0315-98, 0316-98, 0321-98
folder contains job numbers 0315-98, 0316-98, 0321-98
folder contains job numbers, 0322-98, 0323-98, 0326-98
folder contains job numbers, 0322-98, 0323-98, 0326-98
folder contains job numbers, 0322-98, 0323-98, 0326-98
folder contains job numbers 0328-98, 0329-98, 0330-98
folder contains job numbers 0328-98, 0329-98, 0330-98
folder contains job numbers 0328-98, 0329-98, 0330-98
folder contains job numbers 0331-98, 0332-98, 0333-98
folder contains job numbers 0331-98, 0332-98, 0333-98
folder contains job numbers 0331-98, 0332-98, 0333-98
folder contains job numbers 0334-98, 0335-98, 0338-98
folder contains job numbers 0334-98, 0335-98, 0338-98
folder contains job numbers 0334-98, 0335-98, 0338-98
folder contains job numbers 0339-98, 0341-98, 0343-98
folder contains job numbers 0339-98, 0341-98, 0343-98
folder contains job numbers 0339-98, 0341-98, 0343-98
folder contains job numbers 0344-98, 0345-98, 0347-98
folder contains job numbers 0344-98, 0345-98, 0347-98
folder contains job numbers 0344-98, 0345-98, 0347-98
folder contains job numbers 0348-98, 0350-98, 0352-98
folder contains job numbers 0348-98, 0350-98, 0352-98
folder contains job numbers 0348-98, 0350-98, 0352-98
folder contains job numbers 0353-98, 0354-98, 0355-98
folder contains job numbers 0353-98, 0354-98, 0355-98
folder contains job numbers 0353-98, 0354-98, 0355-98
folder contains job numbers 0356-98, 0358-98, 0360-98
folder contains job numbers 0356-98, 0358-98, 0360-98
folder contains job numbers 0356-98, 0358-98, 0360-98
folder contains job numbers 0361-98, 0362-98, 0363-98
folder contains job numbers 0361-98, 0362-98, 0363-98
folder contains job numbers 0361-98, 0362-98, 0363-98
folder contains job numbers 0364-98, 0366-98, 0367-98
folder contains job numbers 0364-98, 0366-98, 0367-98
folder contains job numbers 0364-98, 0366-98, 0367-98
folder contains job numbers 0369-98, 0370-98, 0371-98, 0372-98
folder contains job numbers 0369-98, 0370-98, 0371-98, 0372-98
folder contains job numbers 0369-98, 0370-98, 0371-98, 0372-98
folder contains job numbers 0369-98, 0370-98, 0371-98, 0372-98
folder contains job numbers 0373-98, 0374-98, 0375-98
folder contains job numbers 0373-98, 0374-98, 0375-98
folder contains job numbers 0373-98, 0374-98, 0375-98
folder contains job numbers 0376-98, 0378-98, 0380-98
folder contains job numbers 0376-98, 0378-98, 0380-98
folder contains job numbers 0376-98, 0378-98, 0380-98
folder contains job numbers 0381-98, 0383-98, 0384-98
folder contains job numbers 0381-98, 0383-98, 0384-98
folder contains job numbers 0381-98, 0383-98, 0384-98
folder contains job numbers 0385-98, 0386-98, 0387-98
folder contains job numbers 0385-98, 0386-98, 0387-98
folder contains job numbers 0385-98, 0386-98, 0387-98
folder contains job numbers 0388-98, 0390-98, 0391-98
folder contains job numbers 0388-98, 0390-98, 0391-98
folder contains job numbers 0388-98, 0390-98, 0391-98
folder contains job numbers 0393-98
folder contains job numbers 0393-98, 0394-98, 0395-98
folder contains job numbers 0393-98, 0394-98, 0395-98
folder contains job numbers 0393-98, 0394-98, 0395-98
folder contains job numbers 0396-98, 0397-98, 0398-98
folder contains job numbers 0396-98, 0397-98, 0398-98
folder contains job numbers 0396-98, 0397-98, 0398-98
folder contains job numbers 0399-98, 0401-98
folder contains job numbers 0399-98, 0401-98
folder contains job numbers 0402-98, 0403-98, 0405-98
folder contains job numbers 0402-98, 0403-98, 0405-98
folder contains job numbers 0402-98, 0403-98, 0405-98
folder contains job numbers 0406-98, 0407-98, 0408-98
folder contains job numbers 0406-98, 0407-98, 0408-98
folder contains job numbers 0406-98, 0407-98, 0408-98
folder contains job numbers 0409-98, 0410-98, 0411-98
folder contains job numbers 0409-98, 0410-98, 0411-98
folder contains job numbers 0409-98, 0410-98, 0411-98
folder contains job numbers 0413-98, 0414-98, 0415-98
folder contains job numbers 0413-98, 0414-98, 0415-98
folder contains job numbers 0413-98, 0414-98, 0415-98
folder contains job numbers 0416-98, 0417-98, 0419-98
folder contains job numbers 0416-98, 0417-98, 0419-98
folder contains job numbers 0416-98, 0417-98, 0419-98
folder contains job numbers 0420-98, 0421-98, 0422-98
folder contains job numbers 0420-98, 0421-98, 0422-98
folder contains job numbers 0420-98, 0421-98, 0422-98
folder contains job numbers 0423-98, 0424-98, 0425-98
folder contains job numbers 0423-98, 0424-98, 0425-98
folder contains job numbers 0423-98, 0424-98, 0425-98
folder contains job numbers 0427-98(A-T)
folder contains job numbers 0427-98(A-T)
folder contains job numbers 0427-98(A-T)
folder contains job numbers 0427-98(A-T)
folder contains job numbers 0427-98(A-T)
folder contains job numbers 0427-98(A-T)
folder contains job numbers 0427-98(A-T)
folder contains job numbers 0427-98(A-T)
folder contains job numbers 0427-98(A-T)
folder contains job numbers 0427-98(A-T)
folder contains job numbers 0427-98(A-T)
folder contains job numbers 0427-98(A-T)
folder contains job numbers 0427-98(A-T)
folder contains job numbers 0427-98(A-T)
folder contains job numbers 0427-98(A-T)
folder contains job numbers 0427-98(A-T)
folder contains job numbers 0427-98(A-T)
folder contains job numbers 0427-98(A-T)
folder contains job numbers 0427-98(A-T)
folder contains job numbers 0429-98, 0430-98, 0433-98
folder contains job numbers 0429-98, 0430-98, 0433-98
folder contains job numbers 0429-98, 0430-98, 0433-98
folder contains job numbers 0434-98, 0435-98, 0438-98
folder contains job numbers 0434-98, 0435-98, 0438-98
folder contains job numbers 0434-98, 0435-98, 0438-98
folder contains job numbers 0439-98, 0440-98, 0441-98
folder contains job numbers 0439-98, 0440-98, 0441-98
folder contains job numbers 0439-98, 0440-98, 0441-98
folder contains job numbers 0442-98, 0446-98, 0447-98
folder contains job numbers 0442-98, 0446-98, 0447-98
folder contains job numbers 0442-98, 0446-98, 0447-98
folder contains job numbers 0448-98, 0450-98, 0451-98
folder contains job numbers 0448-98, 0450-98, 0451-98
folder contains job numbers 0448-98, 0450-98, 0451-98
folder contains job numbers 0452-98, 0453-98, 0454-98
folder contains job numbers 0452-98, 0453-98, 0454-98
folder contains job numbers 0452-98, 0453-98, 0454-98
folder contains job numbers 0456-98, 0457-98, 0458-98
folder contains job numbers 0456-98, 0457-98, 0458-98
folder contains job numbers 0456-98, 0457-98, 0458-98
folder contains job numbers 0459-98, 0460-98, 0461-98
folder contains job numbers 0459-98, 0460-98, 0461-98
folder contains job numbers 0459-98, 0460-98, 0461-98
folder contains job numbers 0464-98, 0465-98, 0467-98
folder contains job numbers 0464-98, 0465-98, 0467-98
folder contains job numbers 0464-98, 0465-98, 0467-98
folder contains job numbers 0468-98, 0471-98, 0472-98
folder contains job numbers 0468-98, 0471-98, 0472-98
folder contains job numbers 0468-98, 0471-98, 0472-98
folder contains job numbers 0473-98, 0474-98, 0476-98
folder contains job numbers 0473-98, 0474-98, 0476-98
folder contains job numbers 0473-98, 0474-98, 0476-98
folder contains job numbers 0480-98, 0481-98, 0483-98
folder contains job numbers 0480-98, 0481-98, 0483-98
folder contains job numbers 0480-98, 0481-98, 0483-98
folder contains job numbers 0484-98, 0485-98, 0486-98
folder contains job numbers 0484-98, 0485-98, 0486-98
folder contains job numbers 0484-98, 0485-98, 0486-98
folder contains job numbers 0488-98, 0489-98, 0490-98
folder contains job numbers 0488-98, 0489-98, 0490-98
folder contains job numbers 0488-98, 0489-98, 0490-98
folder contains job numbers 0492-98, 0496-98, 0498-98
folder contains job numbers 0492-98, 0496-98, 0498-98
folder contains job numbers 0492-98, 0496-98, 0498-98
folder contains job numbers 0499-98, 0500-98
folder contains job numbers 0499-98, 0500-98
folder contains job numbers 0501-98, 0503-98, 0504-98
folder contains job numbers 0501-98, 0503-98, 0504-98
folder contains job numbers 0501-98, 0503-98, 0504-98
folder contains job numbers 0506-98, 0508-98, 0509-98
folder contains job numbers 0506-98, 0508-98, 0509-98
folder contains job numbers 0506-98, 0508-98, 0509-98
folder contains job numbers 0510-98, 0511-98, 0513-98
folder contains job numbers 0510-98, 0511-98, 0513-98
folder contains job numbers 0510-98, 0511-98, 0513-98
folder contains job numbers 0514-98, 0515-98, 0516-98
folder contains job numbers 0514-98, 0515-98, 0516-98
folder contains job numbers 0514-98, 0515-98, 0516-98
folder contains job numbers 0518-98, 0519-98, 0519-98
folder contains job numbers 0518-98, 0519-98, 0519-98
folder contains job numbers 0518-98, 0519-98, 0519-98
folder contains job numbers 0520-98, 0521-98, 0522-98
folder contains job numbers 0520-98, 0521-98, 0522-98
folder contains job numbers 0520-98, 0521-98, 0522-98
folder contains job numbers 0524-98, 0527-98, 0528-98
folder contains job numbers 0524-98, 0527-98, 0528-98
folder contains job numbers 0524-98, 0527-98, 0528-98
folder contains job numbers 0529-98, 0531-98, 0532-98
folder contains job numbers 0529-98, 0531-98, 0532-98
folder contains job numbers 0529-98, 0531-98, 0532-98
folder contains job numbers 0533-98, 0534-98, 0535-98
folder contains job numbers 0533-98, 0534-98, 0535-98
folder contains job numbers 0533-98, 0534-98, 0535-98
folder contains job numbers 0537-98, 0540-98, 0541-98
folder contains job numbers 0537-98, 0540-98, 0541-98
folder contains job numbers 0537-98, 0540-98, 0541-98
folder contains job numbers 0542-98, 0543-98, 0544-98
folder contains job numbers 0542-98, 0543-98, 0544-98
folder contains job numbers 0542-98, 0543-98, 0544-98
folder contains job numbers 0545-98, 0546-98, 0547-98
folder contains job numbers 0545-98, 0546-98, 0547-98
folder contains job numbers 0545-98, 0546-98, 0547-98
folder contains job numbers 0548-98, 0549-98, 0550-98
folder contains job numbers 0548-98, 0549-98, 0550-98
folder contains job numbers 0548-98, 0549-98, 0550-98
folder contains job numbers 0551-98, 0552-98, 0553-98
folder contains job numbers 0551-98, 0552-98, 0553-98
folder contains job numbers 0551-98, 0552-98, 0553-98
folder contains job numbers 0555-98, 0556-98, 0557-98
folder contains job numbers 0555-98, 0556-98, 0557-98
folder contains job numbers 0555-98, 0556-98, 0557-98
folder contains job numbers 0558-98, 0559-98, 0561-98
folder contains job numbers 0558-98, 0559-98, 0561-98
folder contains job numbers 0558-98, 0559-98, 0561-98
folder contains job numbers 0563-98, 0564-98, 0565-98
folder contains job numbers 0563-98, 0564-98, 0565-98
folder contains job numbers 0563-98, 0564-98, 0565-98
folder contains job numbers 0567-98, 0568-98, 0569-98
folder contains job numbers 0567-98, 0568-98, 0569-98
folder contains job numbers 0567-98, 0568-98, 0569-98
folder contains job numbers 0570-98, 0573-98, 0574-98
folder contains job numbers 0570-98, 0573-98, 0574-98
folder contains job numbers 0570-98, 0573-98, 0574-98
folder contains job numbers 0575-98, 0576-98, 0577-98
folder contains job numbers 0575-98, 0576-98, 0577-98
folder contains job numbers 0575-98, 0576-98, 0577-98
folder contains job numbers 0578-98, 0581-98, 0483-98
folder contains job numbers 0578-98, 0581-98, 0483-98
folder contains job numbers 0578-98, 0581-98, 0483-98
folder contains job numbers 0584-98, 0587-98, 0591-98
folder contains job numbers 0584-98, 0587-98, 0591-98
folder contains job numbers 0584-98, 0587-98, 0591-98
folder contains job numbers 0592-98, 0593-98, 0598-98
folder contains job numbers 0592-98, 0593-98, 0598-98
folder contains job numbers 0592-98, 0593-98, 0598-98
folder contains job numbers 0599-98, 0600-98, 0601-98
folder contains job numbers 0599-98, 0600-98, 0601-98
folder contains job numbers 0599-98, 0600-98, 0601-98
folder contains job numbers 0602-98, 0605-98, 0606-98
folder contains job numbers 0602-98, 0605-98, 0606-98
folder contains job numbers 0602-98, 0605-98, 0606-98
folder contains job numbers 0607-98, 0608-98, 0610-98
folder contains job numbers 0607-98, 0608-98, 0610-98
folder contains job numbers 0607-98, 0608-98, 0610-98
folder contains job numbers 0611-98, 0612-98, 0614-98
folder contains job numbers 0611-98, 0612-98, 0614-98
folder contains job numbers 0611-98, 0612-98, 0614-98
folder contains job numbers 0615-98, 0616-98, 0617-98
folder contains job numbers 0615-98, 0616-98, 0617-98
folder contains job numbers 0615-98, 0616-98, 0617-98
folder contains job numbers 0618-98, 0620-98, 0621-98
folder contains job numbers 0618-98, 0620-98, 0621-98
folder contains job numbers 0618-98, 0620-98, 0621-98
folder contains job numbers 0623-98, 0628-98, 0629-98
folder contains job numbers 0623-98, 0628-98, 0629-98
folder contains job numbers 0623-98, 0628-98, 0629-98
folder contains job numbers 0630-98, 0631-98, 0632-98
folder contains job numbers 0630-98, 0631-98, 0632-98
folder contains job numbers 0630-98, 0631-98, 0632-98
folder contains job numbers 0633-98, 0634-98, 0635-98
folder contains job numbers 0633-98, 0634-98, 0635-98
folder contains job numbers 0633-98, 0634-98, 0635-98
folder contains job numbers 0638-98, 0638B-98, 0639-98
folder contains job numbers 0638-98, 0638B-98, 0639-98
folder contains job numbers 0638-98, 0638B-98, 0639-98
folder contains job numbers 0640-98, 0642-98, 0645-98
folder contains job numbers 0640-98, 0642-98, 0645-98
folder contains job numbers 0640-98, 0642-98, 0645-98
folder contains job numbers 0646-98, 0647-98, 0648-98
folder contains job numbers 0646-98, 0647-98, 0648-98
folder contains job numbers 0646-98, 0647-98, 0648-98
folder contains job numbers 0650-98, 0651-98, 0652-98
folder contains job numbers 0650-98, 0651-98, 0652-98
folder contains job numbers 0650-98, 0651-98, 0652-98
folder contains job numbers 0635-98, 0634-98, 0658-98
folder contains job numbers 0654-98, 0658-98, 0660-98
folder contains job numbers 0654-98, 0658-98, 0660-98
folder contains job numbers 0654-98, 0658-98, 0660-98
folder contains job numbers 0661-98, 0664-98, 0665-98
folder contains job numbers 0661-98, 0664-98, 0665-98
folder contains job numbers 0661-98, 0664-98, 0665-98
folder contains job numbers 0666-98, 0666-98, 0667-98
folder contains job numbers 0666-98, 0666-98, 0667-98
folder contains job numbers 0666-98, 0666-98, 0667-98
folder contains job numbers 0668-98, 0669-98, 0670-98
folder contains job numbers 0668-98, 0669-98, 0670-98
folder contains job numbers 0668-98, 0669-98, 0670-98
folder contains job numbers 0671-98, 0673-98, 0675-98
folder contains job numbers 0671-98, 0673-98, 0675-98
folder contains job numbers 0671-98, 0673-98, 0675-98
folder contains job numbers 0676-98, 0677-98, 0678-98
folder contains job numbers 0676-98, 0677-98, 0678-98
folder contains job numbers 0676-98, 0677-98, 0678-98
folder contains job numbers 0679-98, 0680-98, 0681-98
folder contains job numbers 0679-98, 0680-98, 0681-98
folder contains job numbers 0679-98, 0680-98, 0681-98
folder contains job numbers 0682-98, 0683-98, 0684-98
folder contains job numbers 0682-98, 0683-98, 0684-98
folder contains job numbers 0682-98, 0683-98, 0684-98
folder contains job numbers 0685-98, 0686-98, 0687-98
folder contains job numbers 0685-98, 0686-98, 0687-98
folder contains job numbers 0685-98, 0686-98, 0687-98
folder contains job numbers 0689-98, 0690-98, 0691-98
folder contains job numbers 0689-98, 0690-98, 0691-98
folder contains job numbers 0689-98, 0690-98, 0691-98
folder contains job numbers 0692-98, 0694-98, 0696-98
folder contains job numbers 0692-98, 0694-98, 0696-98
folder contains job numbers 0692-98, 0694-98, 0696-98
folder contains job numbers 0697-98, 0701-98, 0702-98
folder contains job numbers 0697-98, 0701-98, 0702-98
folder contains job numbers 0697-98, 0701-98, 0702-98
folder contains job numbers 0703-98, 0705-98, 0707-98
folder contains job numbers 0703-98, 0705-98, 0707-98
folder contains job numbers 0703-98, 0705-98, 0707-98
folder contains job numbers 0709-98, 0710-98, 0714-98
folder contains job numbers 0709-98, 0710-98, 0714-98
folder contains job numbers 0709-98, 0710-98, 0714-98
folder contains job numbers 0715-98, 0716-98, 0717-98
folder contains job numbers 0715-98, 0716-98, 0717-98
folder contains job numbers 0715-98, 0716-98, 0717-98
folder contains job numbers 0718-98, 0719-98, 0720-98
folder contains job numbers 0718-98, 0719-98, 0720-98
folder contains job numbers 0718-98, 0719-98, 0720-98
folder contains job numbers 0721-98, 0722-98, 0723-98
folder contains job numbers 0721-98, 0722-98, 0723-98
folder contains job numbers 0721-98, 0722-98, 0723-98
folder contains job numbers 0724-98
folder contains job numbers 0725-98, 0726-98, 0728-98
folder contains job numbers 0725-98, 0726-98, 0728-98
folder contains job numbers 0725-98, 0726-98, 0728-98
folder contains job numbers 0729-98, 0730-98, 0731-98
folder contains job numbers 0729-98, 0730-98, 0731-98
folder contains job numbers 0729-98, 0730-98, 0731-98
folder contains job numbers 0732-98, 0733-98, 0734-98
folder contains job numbers 0732-98, 0733-98, 0734-98
folder contains job numbers 0732-98, 0733-98, 0734-98
folder contains job numbers 0735-98, 0736-98, 0737-98
folder contains job numbers 0735-98, 0736-98, 0737-98
folder contains job numbers 0735-98, 0736-98, 0737-98
folder contains job numbers 0738-98, 0740-98, 0741-98
folder contains job numbers 0738-98, 0740-98, 0741-98
folder contains job numbers 0738-98, 0740-98, 0741-98
folder contains job numbers 0742-98, 0743-98, 0746-98
folder contains job numbers 0742-98, 0743-98, 0746-98
folder contains job numbers 0742-98, 0743-98, 0746-98
folder contains job numbers 0749-98, 0751-98, 0753-98
folder contains job numbers 0749-98, 0751-98, 0753-98
folder contains job numbers 0749-98, 0751-98, 0753-98
folder contains job numbers 0754-98, 0755-98, 0756-98
folder contains job numbers 0754-98, 0755-98, 0756-98
folder contains job numbers 0754-98, 0755-98, 0756-98
folder contains job numbers 0758-98, 0761-98, 0761-98
folder contains job numbers 0758-98, 0761-98, 0761-98
folder contains job numbers 0758-98, 0761-98, 0761-98
folder contains job numbers 0762-98, 0764-98, 0765-98
folder contains job numbers 0762-98, 0764-98, 0765-98
folder contains job numbers 0762-98, 0764-98, 0765-98
folder contains job numbers 0767-98, 0772-98, 0773-98
folder contains job numbers 0767-98, 0772-98, 0773-98
folder contains job numbers 0767-98, 0772-98, 0773-98
folder contains job numbers 0774-98, 0776-98, 0778-98
folder contains job numbers 0774-98, 0776-98, 0778-98
folder contains job numbers 0774-98, 0776-98, 0778-98
folder contains job numbers 0779-98, 0781-98, 0782-98
folder contains job numbers 0779-98, 0781-98, 0782-98
folder contains job numbers 0779-98, 0781-98, 0782-98
folder contains job numbers 0783-98, 0784-98
folder contains job numbers 0783-98, 0784-98
folder contains job numbers 0785-98
folder contains job numbers 0786-98, 0787-98, 0788-98
folder contains job numbers 0786-98, 0787-98, 0788-98
folder contains job numbers 0786-98, 0787-98, 0788-98
folder contains job numbers 0789-98, 0790-98, 0791-98
folder contains job numbers 0789-98, 0790-98, 0791-98
folder contains job numbers 0789-98, 0790-98, 0791-98
folder contains job numbers 0793-98, 0794-98, 0795-98
folder contains job numbers 0793-98, 0794-98, 0795-98
folder contains job numbers 0793-98, 0794-98, 0795-98
folder contains job numbers 0796-98, 0797-98, 0798-98
folder contains job numbers 0796-98, 0797-98, 0798-98
folder contains job numbers 0796-98, 0797-98, 0798-98
folder contains job numbers 0799-98, 0801-98, 0802-98
folder contains job numbers 0799-98, 0801-98, 0802-98
folder contains job numbers 0799-98, 0801-98, 0802-98
folder contains job numbers 0803-98, 0804-98, 0806-98
folder contains job numbers 0803-98, 0804-98, 0806-98
folder contains job numbers 0803-98, 0804-98, 0806-98
folder contains job numbers 0807-98, 0809-98, 0814-98
folder contains job numbers 0807-98, 0809-98, 0814-98
folder contains job numbers 0807-98, 0809-98, 0814-98
folder contains job numbers 0816-98, 0819-98, 0821-98
folder contains job numbers 0816-98, 0819-98, 0821-98
folder contains job numbers 0816-98, 0819-98, 0821-98
folder contains job numbers 0823-98, 0825-98, 0826-98
folder contains job numbers 0823-98, 0825-98, 0826-98
folder contains job numbers 0823-98, 0825-98, 0826-98
folder contains job numbers 0827-98, 0828-98, 0829-98
folder contains job numbers 0827-98, 0828-98, 0829-98
folder contains job numbers 0827-98, 0828-98, 0829-98
folder contains job numbers 0832-98, 0833-98, 0835-98
folder contains job numbers 0832-98, 0833-98, 0835-98
folder contains job numbers 0832-98, 0833-98, 0835-98
folder contains job numbers 0835-98, 0836-98, 0837-98
folder contains job numbers 0835-98, 0836-98, 0837-98
folder contains job numbers 0835-98, 0836-98, 0837-98
folder contains job numbers 0838-98, 0839-98, 0841-98
folder contains job numbers 0838-98, 0839-98, 0841-98
folder contains job numbers 0838-98, 0839-98, 0841-98
folder contains job numbers 0842-98, 0843-98
folder contains job numbers 0842-98, 0843-98
folder contains job numbers 0844-98
folder contains job numbers 0845-98
folder contains job numbers 0846-98, 0847-98, 0848-98
folder contains job numbers 0846-98, 0847-98, 0848-98
folder contains job numbers 0846-98, 0847-98, 0848-98
folder contains job numbers 0849-98, 0850-98, 0853-98
folder contains job numbers 0849-98, 0850-98, 0853-98
folder contains job numbers 0849-98, 0850-98, 0853-98
folder contains job numbers 0854-98
folder contains job numbers 0855-98, 0859-98, 0865-98
folder contains job numbers 0855-98, 0859-98, 0865-98
folder contains job numbers 0855-98, 0859-98, 0865-98
folder contains job numbers 0865-98, 0872-98, 0883-98
folder contains job numbers 0865-98, 0872-98, 0883-98
folder contains job numbers 0865-98, 0872-98, 0883-98
folder contains job numbers 0884-98, 0885-98, 0886-98
folder contains job numbers 0884-98, 0885-98, 0886-98
folder contains job numbers 0884-98, 0885-98, 0886-98
folder contains job numbers 0889-98, 0893-98
folder contains job numbers 0889-98, 0893-98
folder contains job numbers 0896-98, 0897-98, 0898-98
folder contains job numbers 0896-98, 0897-98, 0898-98
folder contains job numbers 0896-98, 0897-98, 0898-98
folder contains job numbers 0899-98, 0900-98, 0901-98
folder contains job numbers 0899-98, 0900-98, 0901-98
folder contains job numbers 0899-98, 0900-98, 0901-98
folder contains job numbers 0902-98, 0903-98, 0904-98
folder contains job numbers 0902-98, 0903-98, 0904-98
folder contains job numbers 0902-98, 0903-98, 0904-98
folder contains job numbers 0908-98, 0910-98, 0910-98
folder contains job numbers 0908-98, 0910-98, 0910-98
folder contains job numbers 0908-98, 0910-98, 0910-98
folder contains job numbers 0913-98, 0914-98
folder contains job numbers 0913-98, 0914-98
folder contains job numbers 0916-98
folder contains job numbers 0918-98, 0918-98, 0919-98
folder contains job numbers 0918-98, 0918-98, 0919-98
folder contains job numbers 0918-98, 0918-98, 0919-98
folder contains job numbers 0920-98
folder contains job numbers 0921-98, 0922-98, 0923-98
folder contains job numbers 0921-98, 0922-98, 0923-98
folder contains job numbers 0921-98, 0922-98, 0923-98
folder contains job numbers 0924-98, 0925-98, 0929-98
folder contains job numbers 0924-98, 0925-98, 0929-98
folder contains job numbers 0924-98, 0925-98, 0929-98
folder contains job numbers 0933-98, 0934-98, 0935-98
folder contains job numbers 0933-98, 0934-98, 0935-98
folder contains job numbers 0933-98, 0934-98, 0935-98
folder contains job numbers 0936-98, 0938-98, 09
folder contains job numbers 0936-98, 0938-98, 09
folder contains job numbers 0936-98, 0938-98, 09
folder contains job numbers 0945-98, 0947-98, 0948-98
folder contains job numbers 0946-98
folder contains job numbers 0945-98, 0947-98, 0948-98
folder contains job numbers 0945-98, 0947-98, 0948-98
folder contains job numbers 0949-98, 0950-98, 0951-98
folder contains job numbers 0949-98, 0950-98, 0951-98
folder contains job numbers 0949-98, 0950-98, 0951-98
folder contains job numbers 0954-98, 0955-98, 0956-98
folder contains job numbers 0954-98, 0955-98, 0956-98
folder contains job numbers 0954-98, 0955-98, 0956-98
folder contains job numbers 0957-98, 0958-98, 0961-98
folder contains job numbers 0957-98, 0958-98, 0961-98
folder contains job numbers 0957-98, 0958-98, 0961-98
folder contains job numbers 0963-98
folder contains job numbers 0964-98, 0965-98, 0969-98
folder contains job numbers 0964-98, 0965-98, 0969-98
folder contains job numbers 0964-98, 0965-98, 0969-98
folder contains job numbers 0970-98, 0972-98, 0973-98
folder contains job numbers 0970-98, 0972-98, 0973-98
folder contains job numbers 0970-98, 0972-98, 0973-98
folder contains job numbers 0974-98, 0975-98, 0976-98
folder contains job numbers 0974-98, 0975-98, 0976-98
folder contains job numbers 0974-98, 0975-98, 0976-98
folder contains job numbers 0977-98, 0979-98, 0980-98
folder contains job numbers 0977-98, 0979-98, 0980-98
folder contains job numbers 0977-98, 0979-98, 0980-98
folder contains job numbers 0981-98, 0985-98, 0988-98
folder contains job numbers 0981-98, 0985-98, 0988-98
folder contains job numbers 0981-98, 0985-98, 0988-98
folder contains job numbers 0989-98, 0990-98
folder contains job numbers 0989-98, 0990-98
folder contains job numbers 0991-98
folder contains job numbers 0992-98, 0993-98, 0994-98
folder contains job numbers 0992-98, 0993-98, 0994-98
folder contains job numbers 0992-98, 0993-98, 0994-98
folder contains job numbers 0996-98, 0997-98, 0998-98
folder contains job numbers 0996-98, 0997-98, 0998-98
folder contains job numbers 0996-98, 0997-98, 0998-98
folder contains job numbers 0999-98, 1000-98, 1002-98
folder contains job numbers 0999-98, 1000-98, 1002-98
folder contains job numbers 0999-98, 1000-98, 1002-98
folder contains job numbers 1004-98, 1005-98, 1007-98
folder contains job numbers 1004-98, 1005-98, 1007-98
folder contains job numbers 1004-98, 1005-98, 1007-98
folder contains job numbers 1010-98, 1011-98, 1012-98
folder contains job numbers 1010-98, 1011-98, 1012-98
folder contains job numbers 1010-98, 1011-98, 1012-98
folder contains job numbers 1013-98, 1014-98, 1015-98
folder contains job numbers 1013-98, 1014-98, 1015-98
folder contains job numbers 1013-98, 1014-98, 1015-98
folder contains job numbers 1016-98, 1018-98, 1019-98
folder contains job numbers 1016-98, 1018-98, 1019-98
folder contains job numbers 1016-98, 1018-98, 1019-98
folder contains job numbers 1020-98, 1022-98, 1023-98
folder contains job numbers 1020-98, 1022-98, 1023-98
folder contains job numbers 1020-98, 1022-98, 1023-98
folder contains job numbers 1024-98, 1025-98, 1027-98
folder contains job numbers 1024-98, 1025-98, 1027-98
folder contains job numbers 1024-98, 1025-98, 1027-98
folder contains job numbers 1029-98, 1030-98, 1031-98
folder contains job numbers 1029-98, 1030-98, 1031-98
folder contains job numbers 1029-98, 1030-98, 1031-98
folder contains job numbers 1032-98, 1034-98, 1035-98
folder contains job numbers 1032-98, 1034-98, 1035-98
folder contains job numbers 1032-98, 1034-98, 1035-98
folder contains job numbers 1036-98, 1038-98, 1042-98
folder contains job numbers 1036-98, 1038-98, 1042-98
folder contains job numbers 1036-98, 1038-98, 1042-98
folder contains job numbers 1043-98, 1047-98, 1048-98
folder contains job numbers 1043-98, 1047-98, 1048-98
folder contains job numbers 1043-98, 1047-98, 1048-98
folder contains job numbers 1049-98, 1050-98, 1051-98
folder contains job numbers 1049-98, 1050-98, 1051-98
folder contains job numbers 1049-98, 1050-98, 1051-98
folder contains job numbers 1052-98, 1053-98, 1054-98
folder contains job numbers 1052-98, 1053-98, 1054-98
folder contains job numbers 1052-98, 1053-98, 1054-98
folder contains job numbers 1057-98, 1059-98, 1062-98
folder contains job numbers 1057-98, 1059-98, 1062-98
folder contains job numbers 1057-98, 1059-98, 1062-98
folder contains job numbers 1063-98, 1064-98, 1065-98
folder contains job numbers 1063-98, 1064-98, 1065-98
folder contains job numbers 1063-98, 1064-98, 1065-98
folder contains job numbers 1066-98, 1068-98, 1069-98
folder contains job numbers 1066-98, 1068-98, 1069-98
folder contains job numbers 1066-98, 1068-98, 1069-98
folder contains job numbers 1070-98, 1072-98, 1075-98
folder contains job numbers 1070-98, 1072-98, 1075-98
folder contains job numbers 1070-98, 1072-98, 1075-98
folder contains job numbers 1076-98, 1077-98, 1078-98
folder contains job numbers 1076-98, 1077-98, 1078-98
folder contains job numbers 1076-98, 1077-98, 1078-98
folder contains job numbers 1081-98, 1082-98, 1083-98
folder contains job numbers 1081-98, 1082-98, 1083-98
folder contains job numbers 1081-98, 1082-98, 1083-98
folder contains job numbers 1084-98, 1085-98, 1086-98
folder contains job numbers 1084-98, 1085-98, 1086-98
folder contains job numbers 1084-98, 1085-98, 1086-98
folder contains job numbers 1089-98, 1090-98, 1093-98
folder contains job numbers 1089-98, 1090-98, 1093-98
folder contains job numbers 1089-98, 1090-98, 1093-98
folder contains job numbers 1097-98, 1098-98, 1099-98
folder contains job numbers 1097-98, 1098-98, 1099-98
folder contains job numbers 1097-98, 1098-98, 1099-98
folder contains job numbers 1103-98, 1104-98, 1105-98
folder contains job numbers 1103-98, 1104-98, 1105-98
folder contains job numbers 1103-98, 1104-98, 1105-98
folder contains job numbers 1106-98, 1110-98, 1111-98
folder contains job numbers 1106-98, 1110-98, 1111-98
folder contains job numbers 1106-98, 1110-98, 1111-98
folder contains job numbers 1112-98, 1112-98, 1113-98
folder contains job numbers 1112-98, 1112-98, 1113-98
folder contains job numbers 1112-98, 1112-98, 1113-98
folder contains job numbers 1114-98, 1116-98, 1117-98
folder contains job numbers 1114-98, 1116-98, 1117-98
folder contains job numbers 1114-98, 1116-98, 1117-98
folder contains job numbers 1119-98, 1121-98, 1123-98
folder contains job numbers 1119-98, 1121-98, 1123-98
folder contains job numbers 1119-98, 1121-98, 1123-98
folder contains job numbers 1124-98, 1125-98, 1126-98
folder contains job numbers 1124-98, 1125-98, 1126-98
folder contains job numbers 1124-98, 1125-98, 1126-98
folder contains job numbers 1127-98, 1129-98, 1130-98
folder contains job numbers 1127-98, 1129-98, 1130-98
folder contains job numbers 1127-98, 1129-98, 1130-98
folder contains job numbers 1131-98, 1132-98, 1133-98
folder contains job numbers 1131-98, 1132-98, 1133-98
folder contains job numbers 1131-98, 1132-98, 1133-98
folder contains job numbers 1134-98, 1135-98, 1136-98
folder contains job numbers 1134-98, 1135-98, 1136-98
folder contains job numbers 1134-98, 1135-98, 1136-98
folder contains job numbers 1137-98, 1138-98, 1139-98
folder contains job numbers 1137-98, 1138-98, 1139-98
folder contains job numbers 1137-98, 1138-98, 1139-98
folder contains job numbers 1141-98, 1142-98, 1143-98
folder contains job numbers 1141-98, 1142-98, 1143-98
folder contains job numbers 1141-98, 1142-98, 1143-98
folder contains job numbers 1145-98, 1147-98, 1148-98
folder contains job numbers 1145-98, 1147-98, 1148-98
folder contains job numbers 1145-98, 1147-98, 1148-98
folder contains job numbers 1150-98, 1151-98, 1154-98
folder contains job numbers 1150-98, 1151-98, 1154-98
folder contains job numbers 1150-98, 1151-98, 1154-98
folder contains job numbers 1156-98, 1157-98, 1158-98
folder contains job numbers 1156-98, 1157-98, 1158-98
folder contains job numbers 1156-98, 1157-98, 1158-98
folder contains job numbers 1160-98, 1161-98, 1163-98
folder contains job numbers 1160-98, 1161-98, 1163-98
folder contains job numbers 1160-98, 1161-98, 1163-98
folder contains job numbers 1164-98, 1165-98, 1168-98
folder contains job numbers 1164-98, 1165-98, 1168-98
folder contains job numbers 1164-98, 1165-98, 1168-98
folder contains job numbers 1170-98, 1171-98, 1172-98
folder contains job numbers 1170-98, 1171-98, 1172-98
folder contains job numbers 1170-98, 1171-98, 1172-98
folder contains job numbers 1173-98, 1174-98, 1175-98
folder contains job numbers 1173-98, 1174-98, 1175-98
folder contains job numbers 1173-98, 1174-98, 1175-98
folder contains job numbers 1176-98, 1179-98, 1181-98
folder contains job numbers 1176-98, 1179-98, 1181-98
folder contains job numbers 1176-98, 1179-98, 1181-98
folder contains job numbers 1182-98, 1183-98, 1184-98
folder contains job numbers 1182-98, 1183-98, 1184-98
folder contains job numbers 1182-98, 1183-98, 1184-98
folder contains job numbers 1185-98, 1186-98, 1187-98
folder contains job numbers 1185-98, 1186-98, 1187-98
folder contains job numbers 1185-98, 1186-98, 1187-98
folder contains job numbers 1188-98, 1189-98, 1190-98
folder contains job numbers 1188-98, 1189-98, 1190-98
folder contains job numbers 1188-98, 1189-98, 1190-98
folder contains job numbers 1191-98, 1192-98, 1193-98
folder contains job numbers 1191-98, 1192-98, 1193-98
folder contains job numbers 1191-98, 1192-98, 1193-98
folder contains job numbers 1194-98, 1195-98, 1197-98
folder contains job numbers 1194-98, 1195-98, 1197-98
folder contains job numbers 1194-98, 1195-98, 1197-98
folder contains job numbers 1198-98, 1199-98, 1200-98
folder contains job numbers 1198-98, 1199-98, 1200-98
folder contains job numbers 1198-98, 1199-98, 1200-98
folder contains job numbers 1201-98, 1203-98, 1204-98
folder contains job numbers 1201-98, 1203-98, 1204-98
folder contains job numbers 1201-98, 1203-98, 1204-98
folder contains job numbers 1206-98, 1207-98, 1208-98
folder contains job numbers 1206-98, 1207-98, 1208-98
folder contains job numbers 1206-98, 1207-98, 1208-98
folder contains job numbers 1209-98, 1213-98, 1214-98
folder contains job numbers 1209-98, 1213-98, 1214-98
folder contains job numbers 1209-98, 1213-98, 1214-98
folder contains job numbers 1218-98, 1220-98, 1221-98
folder contains job numbers 1218-98, 1220-98, 1221-98
folder contains job numbers 1218-98, 1220-98, 1221-98
folder contains job numbers 1222-98, 1224-98, 1225-98
folder contains job numbers 1222-98, 1224-98, 1225-98
folder contains job numbers 1222-98, 1224-98, 1225-98
folder contains job numbers 1227-98, 1228-98, 1229-98
folder contains job numbers 1227-98, 1228-98, 1229-98
folder contains job numbers 1227-98, 1228-98, 1229-98
folder contains job numbers 1230-98, 1231-98, 1232-98
folder contains job numbers 1230-98, 1231-98, 1232-98
folder contains job numbers 1230-98, 1231-98, 1232-98
folder contains job numbers 1235-98, 1236-98, 1239-98
folder contains job numbers 1235-98, 1236-98, 1239-98
folder contains job numbers 1235-98, 1236-98, 1239-98
folder contains job numbers 1240-98, 1241-98, 1242-98
folder contains job numbers 1240-98, 1241-98, 1242-98
folder contains job numbers 1240-98, 1241-98, 1242-98
folder contains job numbers 1243-98, 1249-98, 1250-98
folder contains job numbers 1243-98, 1249-98, 1250-98
folder contains job numbers 1243-98, 1249-98, 1250-98
folder contains job numbers 1253-98, 1257-98, 1258-98
folder contains job numbers 1253-98, 1257-98, 1258-98
folder contains job numbers 1253-98, 1257-98, 1258-98
folder contains job numbers 1260-98, 1261-98, 0001-99
folder contains job numbers 1260-98, 1261-98, 0001-99
folder contains job numbers 1260-98, 1261-98, 0001-99
folder contains job numbers 0002-99, 0003-99, 0004-99
folder contains job numbers 0002-99, 0003-99, 0004-99
folder contains job numbers 0002-99, 0003-99, 0004-99
folder contains job numbers 0006-99, 0009-99, 0011-99
folder contains job numbers 0006-99, 0009-99, 0011-99
folder contains job numbers 0006-99, 0009-99, 0011-99
folder contains job numbers 0012-99, 0013-99, 0014-99
folder contains job numbers 0012-99, 0013-99, 0014-99
folder contains job numbers 0012-99, 0013-99, 0014-99
folder contains job numbers 0015-99, 0016-99, 0017-99
folder contains job numbers 0015-99, 0016-99, 0017-99
folder contains job numbers 0015-99, 0016-99, 0017-99
folder contains job numbers 0018-99, 0019-99, 0020-99
folder contains job numbers 0018-99, 0019-99, 0020-99
folder contains job numbers 0018-99, 0019-99, 0020-99
folder contains job numbers 0021-99, 0023-99, 0024-99
folder contains job numbers 0021-99, 0023-99, 0024-99
folder contains job numbers 0021-99, 0023-99, 0024-99
folder contains job numbers 0025-99, 0026-99, 0027-99
folder contains job numbers 0025-99, 0026-99, 0027-99
folder contains job numbers 0025-99, 0026-99, 0027-99
folder contains job numbers 0028-99, 0029-99, 0030-99
folder contains job numbers 0028-99, 0029-99, 0030-99
folder contains job numbers 0028-99, 0029-99, 0030-99
folder contains job numbers 0032-99, 0033-99, 0034-99
folder contains job numbers 0032-99, 0033-99, 0034-99
folder contains job numbers 0032-99, 0033-99, 0034-99
folder contains job numbers 0037-99, 0038-99, 0039-99
folder contains job numbers 0037-99, 0038-99, 0039-99
folder contains job numbers 0037-99, 0038-99, 0039-99
folder contains job numbers 0040-99, 0042-99, 0043-99
folder contains job numbers 0040-99, 0042-99, 0043-99
folder contains job numbers 0040-99, 0042-99, 0043-99
folder contains job numbers 0044-99, 0046-99, 0047-99
folder contains job numbers 0044-99, 0046-99, 0047-99
folder contains job numbers 0044-99, 0046-99, 0047-99
folder contains job numbers 0048-99, 0049-99, 0050-99
folder contains job numbers 0048-99, 0049-99, 0050-99
folder contains job numbers 0048-99, 0049-99, 0050-99
folder contains job numbers 0051-99, 0052-99, 0053-99
folder contains job numbers 0051-99, 0052-99, 0053-99
folder contains job numbers 0051-99, 0052-99, 0053-99
folder contains job numbers 0054-99, 0055-99, 0056-99
folder contains job numbers 0054-99, 0055-99, 0056-99
folder contains job numbers 0054-99, 0055-99, 0056-99
folder contains job numbers 0057-99, 0058-99, 0059-99
folder contains job numbers 0057-99, 0058-99, 0059-99
folder contains job numbers 0057-99, 0058-99, 0059-99
folder contains job numbers 0060-99, 0061-99, 0062-99
folder contains job numbers 0060-99, 0061-99, 0062-99
folder contains job numbers 0060-99, 0061-99, 0062-99
folder contains job numbers 0063-99, 0066-99, 0066-99
folder contains job numbers 0063-99, 0066-99, 0066-99
folder contains job numbers 0063-99, 0066-99, 0066-99
folder contains job numbers 0067-99, 0070-99, 0071-99
folder contains job numbers 0067-99, 0070-99, 0071-99
folder contains job numbers 0067-99, 0070-99, 0071-99
folder contains job numbers 0072-99, 0073-99, 0074-99
folder contains job numbers 0072-99, 0073-99, 0074-99
folder contains job numbers 0072-99, 0073-99, 0074-99
folder contains job numbers 0075-99, 0076-99, 0077-99
folder contains job numbers 0075-99, 0076-99, 0077-99
folder contains job numbers 0075-99, 0076-99, 0077-99
folder contains job numbers 0078-99, 0080-99, 0081-99
folder contains job numbers 0078-99, 0080-99, 0081-99
folder contains job numbers 0078-99, 0080-99, 0081-99
folder contains job numbers 0082-99, 0084-99, 0085-99
folder contains job numbers 0082-99, 0084-99, 0085-99
folder contains job numbers 0082-99, 0084-99, 0085-99
folder contains job numbers 0086-99, 0087-99, 0088-99
folder contains job numbers 0086-99, 0087-99, 0088-99
folder contains job numbers 0086-99, 0087-99, 0088-99
folder contains job numbers 0089-99, 0091-99, 0092-99
folder contains job numbers 0089-99, 0091-99, 0092-99
folder contains job numbers 0089-99, 0091-99, 0092-99
folder contains job numbers 0093-99, 0094-99, 0095-99
folder contains job numbers 0093-99, 0094-99, 0095-99
folder contains job numbers 0093-99, 0094-99, 0095-99
folder contains job numbers 0096-99, 0097-99, 0099-99
folder contains job numbers 0096-99, 0097-99, 0099-99
folder contains job numbers 0096-99, 0097-99, 0099-99
folder contains job numbers 0100-99, 0101-99, 0103-99
folder contains job numbers 0100-99, 0101-99, 0103-99
folder contains job numbers 0100-99, 0101-99, 0103-99
folder contains job numbers 0104-99, 0105-99, 0106-99
folder contains job numbers 0104-99, 0105-99, 0106-99
folder contains job numbers 0104-99, 0105-99, 0106-99
folder contains job numbers 0109-99, 0110-99, 0111-99
folder contains job numbers 0109-99, 0110-99, 0111-99
folder contains job numbers 0109-99, 0110-99, 0111-99
folder contains job numbers 0113-99, 0114-99, 0115-99
folder contains job numbers 0113-99, 0114-99, 0115-99
folder contains job numbers 0113-99, 0114-99, 0115-99
folder contains job numbers 0116-99, 0117-99, 0118-99
folder contains job numbers 0116-99, 0117-99, 0118-99
folder contains job numbers 0116-99, 0117-99, 0118-99
folder contains job numbers 0121-99, 0122-99, 0124-99
folder contains job numbers 0121-99, 0122-99, 0124-99
folder contains job numbers 0121-99, 0122-99, 0124-99
folder contains job numbers 0126-99, 0127-99, 0129-99
folder contains job numbers 0126-99, 0127-99, 0129-99
folder contains job numbers 0126-99, 0127-99, 0129-99
folder contains job numbers 0132-99, 0134-99, 0137-99
folder contains job numbers 0132-99, 0134-99, 0137-99
folder contains job numbers 0132-99, 0134-99, 0137-99
folder contains job numbers 0138-99, 0139-99, 0140-99
folder contains job numbers 0138-99, 0139-99, 0140-99
folder contains job numbers 0138-99, 0139-99, 0140-99
folder contains job numbers 0143-99, 0144-99, 0145-99
folder contains job numbers 0143-99, 0144-99, 0145-99
folder contains job numbers 0143-99, 0144-99, 0145-99
folder contains job numbers 0146-99, 0148-99, 0149-99
folder contains job numbers 0146-99, 0148-99, 0149-99
folder contains job numbers 0146-99, 0148-99, 0149-99
folder contains job numbers 0153-99, 0154-99, 0155-99
folder contains job numbers 0153-99, 0154-99, 0155-99
folder contains job numbers 0153-99, 0154-99, 0155-99
folder contains job numbers 0156-99, 0157-99, 0158-99
folder contains job numbers 0156-99, 0157-99, 0158-99
folder contains job numbers 0156-99, 0157-99, 0158-99
folder contains job numbers 01599-99, 0164-99, 0165-99
folder contains job numbers 01599-99, 0164-99, 0165-99
folder contains job numbers 01599-99, 0164-99, 0165-99
folder contains job numbers 0166-99, 0167-99, 0168-99
folder contains job numbers 0166-99, 0167-99, 0168-99
folder contains job numbers 0166-99, 0167-99, 0168-99
folder contains job numbers 0169-99, 0170-99, 0171-99
folder contains job numbers 0169-99, 0170-99, 0171-99
folder contains job numbers 0169-99, 0170-99, 0171-99
folder contains job numbers 0172-99, 0173-99, 0175-99
folder contains job numbers 0172-99, 0173-99, 0175-99
folder contains job numbers 0172-99, 0173-99, 0175-99
folder contains job numbers 0176-99, 0177-99, 0178-99
folder contains job numbers 0176-99, 0177-99, 0178-99
folder contains job numbers 0176-99, 0177-99, 0178-99
folder contains job numbers 0180-99, 0181-99, 0182-99
folder contains job numbers 0180-99, 0181-99, 0182-99
folder contains job numbers 0180-99, 0181-99, 0182-99
folder contains job numbers 0184-99, 0186-99, 0187-99
folder contains job numbers 0184-99, 0186-99, 0187-99
folder contains job numbers 0184-99, 0186-99, 0187-99
folder contains job numbers 0188-99, 0189-99, 0190-99
folder contains job numbers 0188-99, 0189-99, 0190-99
folder contains job numbers 0188-99, 0189-99, 0190-99
folder contains job numbers 0191-99, 0192-99, 0194-99
folder contains job numbers 0191-99, 0192-99, 0194-99
folder contains job numbers 0191-99, 0192-99, 0194-99
folder contains job numbers 0195-99, 0198-99, 0199-99
folder contains job numbers 0195-99, 0198-99, 0199-99
folder contains job numbers 0195-99, 0198-99, 0199-99
folder contains job numbers 0200-99, 0202-99, 0203-99
folder contains job numbers 0200-99, 0202-99, 0203-99
folder contains job numbers 0200-99, 0202-99, 0203-99
folder contains job numbers 0206-99, 0208-99, 0209-99
folder contains job numbers 0206-99, 0208-99, 0209-99
folder contains job numbers 0206-99, 0208-99, 0209-99
folder contains job numbers 0210-99, 0211-99, 0212-99
folder contains job numbers 0210-99, 0211-99, 0212-99
folder contains job numbers 0210-99, 0211-99, 0212-99
folder contains job numbers 0213-99, 0214-99, 0216-99
folder contains job numbers 0213-99, 0214-99, 0216-99
folder contains job numbers 0213-99, 0214-99, 0216-99
folder contains job numbers 0217-99, 0218-99, 0219-99
folder contains job numbers 0217-99, 0218-99, 0219-99
folder contains job numbers 0217-99, 0218-99, 0219-99
folder contains job numbers 0220-99, 0221-99, 0222-99
folder contains job numbers 0220-99, 0221-99, 0222-99
folder contains job numbers 0220-99, 0221-99, 0222-99
folder contains job numbers 0223-99, 0224-99, 0226-99
folder contains job numbers 0223-99, 0224-99, 0226-99
folder contains job numbers 0223-99, 0224-99, 0226-99
folder contains job numbers 0228-99, 0230-99, 0231-99
folder contains job numbers 0228-99, 0230-99, 0231-99
folder contains job numbers 0228-99, 0230-99, 0231-99
folder contains job numbers 0234-99, 0235-99, 0237-99
folder contains job numbers 0234-99, 0235-99, 0237-99
folder contains job numbers 0234-99, 0235-99, 0237-99
folder contains job numbers 0238-99, 0239-99, 0240-99
folder contains job numbers 0238-99, 0239-99, 0240-99
folder contains job numbers 0238-99, 0239-99, 0240-99
folder contains job numbers 0241-99, 0242-99, 0243-99
folder contains job numbers 0241-99, 0242-99, 0243-99
folder contains job numbers 0241-99, 0242-99, 0243-99
folder contains job numbers 0244-99, 0245-99, 0246-99
folder contains job numbers 0244-99, 0245-99, 0246-99
folder contains job numbers 0244-99, 0245-99, 0246-99
folder contains job numbers 0247-99, 0249-99, 0250-99
folder contains job numbers 0247-99, 0249-99, 0250-99
folder contains job numbers 0247-99, 0249-99, 0250-99
folder contains job numbers 0251-99, 0253-99, 0254-99
folder contains job numbers 0251-99, 0253-99, 0254-99
folder contains job numbers 0251-99, 0253-99, 0254-99
folder contains job numbers 0255-99, 0256-99, 0257-99
folder contains job numbers 0255-99, 0256-99, 0257-99
folder contains job numbers 0255-99, 0256-99, 0257-99
folder contains job numbers 0258-99, 0260-99, 0261-99
folder contains job numbers 0258-99, 0260-99, 0261-99
folder contains job numbers 0258-99, 0260-99, 0261-99
folder contains job numbers 0262-99, 0263-99, 0265-99
folder contains job numbers 0262-99, 0263-99, 0265-99
folder contains job numbers 0262-99, 0263-99, 0265-99
folder contains job numbers 0269-99, 0270-99, 0274-99
folder contains job numbers 0269-99, 0270-99, 0274-99
folder contains job numbers 0269-99, 0270-99, 0274-99
folder contains job numbers 0275-99, 0276-99, 0277-99
folder contains job numbers 0275-99, 0276-99, 0277-99
folder contains job numbers 0275-99, 0276-99, 0277-99
folder contains job numbers 0278-99, 0279-99, 0280-99
folder contains job numbers 0278-99, 0279-99, 0280-99
folder contains job numbers 0278-99, 0279-99, 0280-99
folder contains job numbers 0281-99, 0282-99, 0288-99
folder contains job numbers 0281-99, 0282-99, 0288-99
folder contains job numbers 0281-99, 0282-99, 0288-99
folder contains job numbers 0289-99, 0290-99, 0292-99
folder contains job numbers 0289-99, 0290-99, 0292-99
folder contains job numbers 0289-99, 0290-99, 0292-99
folder contains job numbers 0293-99, 0298-99, 0299-99
folder contains job numbers 0293-99, 0298-99, 0299-99
folder contains job numbers 0293-99, 0298-99, 0299-99
folder contains job numbers 0300-99, 0302-99, 0303-99
folder contains job numbers 0300-99, 0302-99, 0303-99
folder contains job numbers 0300-99, 0302-99, 0303-99
folder contains job numbers 0304-99
folder contains job numbers 0305-99, 0307-99, 0309-99
folder contains job numbers 0305-99, 0307-99, 0309-99
folder contains job numbers 0305-99, 0307-99, 0309-99
folder contains job numbers 0310-99, 0311-99, 0312-99
folder contains job numbers 0310-99, 0311-99, 0312-99
folder contains job numbers 0310-99, 0311-99, 0312-99
folder contains job numbers 0314-99, 0315-99, 0316-99
folder contains job numbers 0314-99, 0315-99, 0316-99
folder contains job numbers 0314-99, 0315-99, 0316-99
folder contains job numbers 0317-99, 0318-99, 0319-99
folder contains job numbers 0317-99, 0318-99, 0319-99
folder contains job numbers 0317-99, 0318-99, 0319-99
folder contains job numbers 0320-99, 0321-99, 0322-99
folder contains job numbers 0320-99, 0321-99, 0322-99
folder contains job numbers 0320-99, 0321-99, 0322-99
folder contains job numbers 0323-99, 0325-99, 0326-99
folder contains job numbers 0323-99, 0325-99, 0326-99
folder contains job numbers 0323-99, 0325-99, 0326-99
folder contains job numbers 0328-99, 0329-99, 0330-99
folder contains job numbers 0328-99, 0329-99, 0330-99
folder contains job numbers 0328-99, 0329-99, 0330-99
folder contains job numbers 0331-99, 0332-99, 0333-99
folder contains job numbers 0331-99, 0332-99, 0333-99
folder contains job numbers 0331-99, 0332-99, 0333-99
folder contains job numbers 0334-99, 0335-99, 0336-99
folder contains job numbers 0334-99, 0335-99, 0336-99
folder contains job numbers 0334-99, 0335-99, 0336-99
folder contains job numbers 0337-99, 0339-99, 0340-99
folder contains job numbers 0337-99, 0339-99, 0340-99
folder contains job numbers 0337-99, 0339-99, 0340-99
folder contains job numbers 0341-99, 0342-99, 0343-99
folder contains job numbers 0341-99, 0342-99, 0343-99
folder contains job numbers 0341-99, 0342-99, 0343-99
folder contains job numbers 0344-99, 0345-99, 0346-99
folder contains job numbers 0344-99, 0345-99, 0346-99
folder contains job numbers 0344-99, 0345-99, 0346-99
folder contains job numbers 0347-99, 0348-99, 0349-99
folder contains job numbers 0347-99, 0348-99, 0349-99
folder contains job numbers 0347-99, 0348-99, 0349-99
folder contains job numbers 0351-99, 0352-99, 0353-99
folder contains job numbers 0351-99, 0352-99, 0353-99
folder contains job numbers 0351-99, 0352-99, 0353-99
folder contains job numbers 0356-99, 0360-99, 0367-99
folder contains job numbers 0356-99, 0360-99, 0367-99
folder contains job numbers 0356-99, 0360-99, 0367-99
folder contains job numbers 0369-99, 0370-99, 0373-99
folder contains job numbers 0369-99, 0370-99, 0373-99
folder contains job numbers 0369-99, 0370-99, 0373-99
folder contains job numbers 0374-99, 0375-99, 0376-99
folder contains job numbers 0374-99, 0375-99, 0376-99
folder contains job numbers 0374-99, 0375-99, 0376-99
folder contains job numbers 0385-99, 0390-99, 0393-99
folder contains job numbers 0385-99, 0390-99, 0393-99
folder contains job numbers 0385-99, 0390-99, 0393-99
folder contains job numbers 0394-99, 0395-99, 0396-99
folder contains job numbers 0394-99, 0395-99, 0396-99
folder contains job numbers 0394-99, 0395-99, 0396-99
folder contains job numbers 0398-99
folder contains job numbers 0399-99, 0401-99, 0402-99
folder contains job numbers 0399-99, 0401-99, 0402-99
folder contains job numbers 0399-99, 0401-99, 0402-99
folder contains job numbers 0403-99, 0405-99, 0406-99
folder contains job numbers 0403-99, 0405-99, 0406-99
folder contains job numbers 0403-99, 0405-99, 0406-99
folder contains job numbers 0407-99, 0409-99, 0410-99
folder contains job numbers 0407-99, 0409-99, 0410-99
folder contains job numbers 0407-99, 0409-99, 0410-99
folder contains job numbers 0413-99, 0416-99, 0417-99
folder contains job numbers 0413-99, 0416-99, 0417-99
folder contains job numbers 0413-99, 0416-99, 0417-99
folder contains job numbers 0418-99, 0419-99, 0424-99
folder contains job numbers 0418-99, 0419-99, 0424-99
folder contains job numbers 0418-99, 0419-99, 0424-99
folder contains job numbers 0425-99, 0428-99, 0429-99
folder contains job numbers 0425-99, 0428-99, 0429-99
folder contains job numbers 0425-99, 0428-99, 0429-99
folder contains job numbers 0430-99, 0431-99, 0432-99
folder contains job numbers 0430-99, 0431-99, 0432-99
folder contains job numbers 0430-99, 0431-99, 0432-99
folder contains job numbers 0433-99, 0435-99, 0436-99
folder contains job numbers 0433-99, 0435-99, 0436-99
folder contains job numbers 0433-99, 0435-99, 0436-99
folder contains job numbers 0437-99, 0438-99, 0439-99
folder contains job numbers 0437-99, 0438-99, 0439-99
folder contains job numbers 0437-99, 0438-99, 0439-99
folder contains job numbers 0440-99, 0441-99, 0441-99
folder contains job numbers 0440-99, 0441-99, 0441-99
folder contains job numbers 0440-99, 0441-99, 0441-99
folder contains job numbers 0445-99, 0450-99, 0450-99
folder contains job numbers 0445-99, 0450-99, 0450-99
folder contains job numbers 0445-99, 0450-99, 0450-99
folder contains job numbers 0452-99, 0452-99, 0457-99
folder contains job numbers 0452-99, 0452-99, 0457-99
folder contains job numbers 0452-99, 0452-99, 0457-99
folder contains job numbers 0458-99, 0459-99, 0460-99
folder contains job numbers 0458-99, 0459-99, 0460-99
folder contains job numbers 0458-99, 0459-99, 0460-99
folder contains job numbers 0461-99, 0462-99, 0463-99
folder contains job numbers 0461-99, 0462-99, 0463-99
folder contains job numbers 0461-99, 0462-99, 0463-99
folder contains job numbers 0464-99, 0465-99, 0466-99
folder contains job numbers 0464-99, 0465-99, 0466-99
folder contains job numbers 0464-99, 0465-99, 0466-99
folder contains job numbers 0467-99, 0469-99, 0470-99
folder contains job numbers 0467-99, 0469-99, 0470-99
folder contains job numbers 0467-99, 0469-99, 0470-99
folder contains job numbers 0471-99, 0472-99
folder contains job numbers 0471-99, 0472-99
folder contains job numbers 0473-99, 0475-99, 0476-99
folder contains job numbers 0473-99, 0475-99, 0476-99
folder contains job numbers 0473-99, 0475-99, 0476-99
folder contains job numbers 0477-99, 0481-99, 0482-99
folder contains job numbers 0477-99, 0481-99, 0482-99
folder contains job numbers 0477-99, 0481-99, 0482-99
folder contains job numbers 0483-99, 0484-99, 0485-99
folder contains job numbers 0483-99, 0484-99, 0485-99
folder contains job numbers 0483-99, 0484-99, 0485-99
folder contains job numbers 0489-99, 0490-99, 0492-99
folder contains job numbers 0489-99, 0490-99, 0492-99
folder contains job numbers 0489-99, 0490-99, 0492-99
folder contains job numbers 0493-99, 0495-99, 0496-99
folder contains job numbers 0493-99, 0495-99, 0496-99
folder contains job numbers 0493-99, 0495-99, 0496-99
folder contains job numbers 0498-99, 0499-99, 0500-99
folder contains job numbers 0498-99, 0499-99, 0500-99
folder contains job numbers 0498-99, 0499-99, 0500-99
folder contains job numbers 0501-99, 0503-99, 0504-99
folder contains job numbers 0501-99, 0503-99, 0504-99
folder contains job numbers 0501-99, 0503-99, 0504-99
folder contains job numbers 0505-99, 0506-99, 0508-99
folder contains job numbers 0505-99, 0506-99, 0508-99
folder contains job numbers 0505-99, 0506-99, 0508-99
folder contains job numbers 0509-99, 0511-99, 0513-99
folder contains job numbers 0509-99, 0511-99, 0513-99
folder contains job numbers 0509-99, 0511-99, 0513-99
folder contains job numbers 0514-99, 0515-99, 0516-99
folder contains job numbers 0514-99, 0515-99, 0516-99
folder contains job numbers 0514-99, 0515-99, 0516-99
folder contains job numbers 0517-99, 0518-99, 0519-99
folder contains job numbers 0517-99, 0518-99, 0519-99
folder contains job numbers 0517-99, 0518-99, 0519-99
folder contains job numbers 0521-99, 0522-99, 0524-99
folder contains job numbers 0521-99, 0522-99, 0524-99
folder contains job numbers 0521-99, 0522-99, 0524-99
folder contains job numbers 0525-99, 0526-99, 0529-99
folder contains job numbers 0525-99, 0526-99, 0529-99
folder contains job numbers 0525-99, 0526-99, 0529-99
folder contains job numbers 0530-99, 0531-99, 0532-99, 0533-99
folder contains job numbers 0530-99, 0531-99, 0532-99, 0533-99
folder contains job numbers 0530-99, 0531-99, 0532-99, 0533-99
folder contains job numbers 0530-99, 0531-99, 0532-99, 0533-99
The Duke Taekwondo records cover 2017-2019 and consist of background documents, practice guides, belt testing information, certificates, tournament information, and photographs.
The Louis Dupree papers contain correspondence, notes, clippings, conference programs, drafts, manuscripts, speeches, newsletters, interview transcripts, research materials, teaching materials, a scrapbook, photographs, grant applications, memorabilia, student papers, a dissertation, and other materials related to the personal life and professional career of archaeologist, activist, and scholar Louis Dupree.
Major subjects include Louis Dupree, Nancy Hatch Dupree, the Duke University Program in Islamic and Arabian Development Studies, Ralph Braibanti, Afghanistan, Afghan refugees, Afghanistan-Pakistan relations, Pakistan, the United States Army 11th Airborne, the United States Army 187th Airborne, and the United States Military Academy at West Point. Materials range in date from 1943 to 1989. The bulk of the material is from 1980 to 1989, as Dupree had destroyed much of his correspondence and papers, because, according to Nancy Hatch Dupree, he thought they were nobody's business.
Primarily professional correspondence from the last decade of Dupree's life. Dupree often developed friendships with his professional associates, so much of the professional correspondence contains personal information and vice versa. Dupree also filed notes, clippings, and other materials related to the correspondent in the same folder as the correspondence.
Conference programs and schedules, correspondence relating to Dupree's attendance at various conferences and seminars, draft and published versions of presentations given at conferences, and Dupree's working notes for presentations.
Primarily correspondence, clippings, notes, memos, minutes, newsletters, and other materials related to organizations and committees to which Dupree belonged or in which he had an interest. Includes some writings by Dupree and his testimony before the Congressional Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Congressional Task Force on Afghanistan. Also includes notes by Dupree concerning his possible appointment as the US ambassador to Bangladesh.
Notes, drafts, and typescripts of articles and books written by Dupree, plus other research materials.
Transcripts of interviews with Afghans, used as research material in Dupree's book Afghanistan.
Correspondence, notes about typos and other corrections and revisions, research notes, contracts, clippings, and other materials related to the publication of Afghanistan.
Typescripts of Review: Rambo III by Dupree and The Afghan Kirghiz in Turkey by Nancy Hatch Dupree.
Translations of captions to calendar illustrations by Dupree.
Letter regarding Dupree's entry for Babrak Karmal in the 1987 Encyclopedia of World Biography, plus a copy of the article.
Typescript regarding a bronze sarcophagus and related items found in Kandahar.
Handwritten notes for a talk entitled What is Anthropology?
Xerox of article (in Norwegian) regarding Dupree and Nancy Hatch Dupree.
Typescript and handwritten draft of short article by Dupree regarding Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan.
Warning: Graphic Material
Black and white photographs. Note by Nancy Hatch Dupree: Police photos of P. M. Maiwandwal's 'suicide by hanging' on 20 October 1973. L. D. persuaded the government not to release them as 'proof' of suicide, bec. he found them unconvincing. To my knowledge they were never published or released.
Correspondence regarding Dupree's role as guest editor of the journal.
Typed transcript of an interview with an Indian villager, plus appendices and handwritten notes.
Handwritten draft by Dupree for a Voice of America program marking the anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
Note by Nancy Hatch Dupree: Transcript of tapes made by Louis Dupree in Peshawar immediately following his imprisonment in Kabul, December 1978.
Correspondence, application, proposal, notes, and other materials related to the Duprees' study of Afghan refugees in Pakistan.
Correspondence, proposal, and other materials related to Dupree's unfinished book, The First Russo-Afghan War (1979-???): Afghan Cultural Responses to the Soviet Occupation.
Grant proposal to the Ford Foundation for funding for the book The Modernization of Inner Asia. Annotations by Dupree.
Correspondence, proposal, tentative outline of book, notes, and other materials related to the Duprees' study of Afghan refugees in Pakistan.
Correspondence, application, and other materials related to the Duprees' study of Afghan refugees in Pakistan.
Materials related to Dupree serving as an advisor and reviewer on journal articles, books, and a master's thesis. Includes correspondence, notes, and abstracts and drafts of articles and books under consideration.
Correspondence, comments by Dupree on a manuscript by Barnett Rubin entitled The Struggle for the Afghan State: Communist Coup d'Etat and Islamic Revolution. Correspondence and comments by Dupree on a manuscript by Michael Karasz entitled Strewn Along Shores.
Two bound volumes of Dupree's Ph.D. dissertation, Harvard University Dept. of Anthropology: Shamshir Ghar: Historic Cave Site in Kandahar Province, Afghanistan, 1954
Correspondence, syllabi, reading lists, notes, student papers, and other materials related to Dupree's teaching career.
Correspondence, notes, clippings, maps, and other materials related to Dupree's service in the 11th Airborne Division.
Correspondence, clippings, and other materials related to Dupree's service in the 187th Airborne Division.
Correspondence, copies of Dupree's discharge records, and other materials related to Dupree's U. S. Army service.
Scrapbook kept by Dupree during his 1943-1944 armed forces service. Includes journal entries, verse, clippings, photographs, and other memorabilia.
Correspondence regarding The Dupree Family Album and a copy of The Name and Family of Dupre(e) from the Roots Research Bureau.
Clipping about the Duprees from the Greenville Daily Reflector, Greenville High School reunion program, letters, and other personal materials.
Contains correspondence, manuscripts of orations and songs composed for Trinity events, photographs, clippings, materials relating to plans for Duke University, a proposal submitted to the Duke family for a school of agriculture and for the choice of "Yale blue" as the school color. Some of Durham's correspondents include B. N. Duke, W. W. "Cap" Card, W. P. Few, R. L. Flowers, J. C. Kilgo as well as members of the Trinity football team. Also contains an inscribed copy of O Duke, Alma Mater from 1933.
This collection contains files about the activities of the Union's administrative body and its programming committees. The collection includes clippings, flyers, calendars, program schedules, publicity postcards, printed budgets, newsletters, and form letters. The bulk dates are 1980-2000. Topics include regular Union programming and special events such as SpringFest, OktoberFest, and scavenger hunts.
The ECOS records include correspondence, establishment and governance documents, meeting minutes, events information, financial materials, a statement of purpose, and materials relating to ECOS projects and causes. The most significant ECOS projects within these records include the Eno River Park project, the New Hope Dam project, and Carolina Power and Light Company's proposed power plant in Wake County. The records also include publicity, clippings, and other printed material related to ECOS, the Duke Environmental Center, and the Environmental Coordinating Council at Duke.
The School of Engineering Reference Collection contains files of clippings, articles, bulletins, reports, publications, and other materials about the School of Engineering. This collection was compiled from a variety of sources by the University Archives for use in reference and research.
The Environmentalism Reference Collection contains files of clippings, flyers, announcements, publications, reports and other materials pertaining to environmental matters at the University. This collection was compiled from a variety of sources by the University Archives for use in reference and research.
The Ephemera Collection includes event tickets, dining hall placemats, football game tickets, receipts, decals, pins, meal books and tickets, programs, photographs, and other materials related to student life at Duke. Many materials date from the 1930s, and include invitations to dances, student fee receipts, programs to music performances, and a Duke University Handbook. Placemats were used in Woman's College dining hall, and depict campus buildings designed by Woman's College faculty member G. Hope Summerell Chamberlain. The collection also includes a few photographs of the campus and student life in the 1930s. Also included are some materials related to class reunions and alumni, including an alumni guide to campus.
Eight printed placemats of Duke University buildings used at the Woman's College dining hall. The placemats were designed by Woman's College faculty member G. Hope Summerell Chamberlain.
The collection includes clippings, press releases, statistics, rosters, programs and press brochures/media guides about the field hockey team at Duke University. The material ranges in date from 1977-ongoing.
The Yearly files contain clippings, press releases, statistics, rosters, and programs about the field hockey team at Duke University.
The University Finances Reference Collection contains files of publications, reports, news clippings, and memoranda related to the University's investments, fundraising, budgeting and other financial matters. Major subjects include fundraising campaigns, and endowment management. The collection includes several publications produced to explain the University's finances to students.
These records were produced by the Friends of Duke Chapel in the course of their activities as a support organization for the program of Duke Chapel. Materials are present from 1973 to 1999. The bulk of the records consists of correspondence, official letters to members, advisory board and committee minutes and reports, newsletters, and other organization publications. There is some material not directly produced by the Friends of Duke Chapel but mentions the organization in its publications, or deals with the history of Duke Chapel.
This series chronicles the interests and activities of the Friends of Duke Chapel from 1975 to 1991. It includes minutes and agendas from advisory board meetings, annual meeting minutes, as well as reports from the finance and nominating committees. The advisory board minutes changed name from "Executive Committee Minutes" to "Advisory Board Minutes" in 1981. Some topics covered in the minutes include construction of a handicapped ramp, meetings with guest preachers, brochure on Memorial Chapel, creation of a directorship for Friends of Duke Chapel, air-conditioning of the Chapel, annual Messiah luncheon, photographing of Chapel windows, Advent and Lenten prayer booklets, Chapel window bookmark project, and establishment of a Friends of the Chapel endowment fund.
This series contains correspondence relating to the activities and administration of the Friends of Duke Chapel. It includes general correspondence from members of the advisory board to other board members and members at large. These letters include those from Dean of the Chapel Robert T. Young regarding the proposal and implementation of the Friends group in 1973. There is also a folder containing official letters from the Director to the membership at large regarding upcoming events such as Messiah performances, membership renewals, and annual meetings.
This series includes material relating to the function of the Friends of Duke Chapel. It is arranged alphabetically. Material includes by-laws and resolutions, a description and background statement regarding the mission of the Friends group, membership lists, and news clippings relating to the history of Duke Chapel. In addition, there are records from the organizing committee relating to the founding of the group and the definition of its mission. Of particular interest in this series are the oral history transcriptions of interviews conducted by Arthur Kale of Barney L. Jones, James T. Cleland, Howard Wilkinson, and Robert DuBose. The transcriptions are a rich source of historical information on the staff and history of the Chapel and its program. The interviews provide personal reminiscences of chapel history and staff, including Foster Barnes, Mildred Hendrix, Frank Hickman, Ben Smith, and the carillonneurs. They discuss their relationships with numerous campus organizations, athletics, the inter-racial council, and the role of the administrative committee. The men remember visits and sermons by guest preachers such as Ralph Sockman, Martin Niemoller, Henry Crane, and Paul Tillich. They also recall chapel events throughout the calendar year including Religious Emphasis week, the Christmas pageant, and Easter services.
Other significant materials are several speeches, by Bishop W. Kenneth Goodson, Mary D. B. T. Semans, and Marjorie C. Jones respectively, given during the Friends annual dinner meeting. Bishop Goodson, former Bishop-in-Residence of the Divinity School and trustee emeritus of the Duke Endowment, fondly remembers his relationship to Duke Chapel. Mary D. B. T. Semans speech recalls her mother Sarah P. Duke's feelings for the Chapel, and includes her memories of numerous Chapel ministers and music staff. Marjorie Jones gives insight into the role of chapel hostesses and the life of the chapel during the week. [See also: Barney L. Jones Papers for "Chapel Reminiscences: The First Two Decades," a speech given to the Friends of Duke Chapel Annual Dinner, 1983.]
This series includes brochures and pamphlets relating to the Chapel and work of the Friends group and calendars produced by the Friends. Brochures include the Friends informational and membership brochures, and a bookmark featuring the Adam Window-South Aisle of the Chapel.
The collection contains files of memoranda, clippings, and other printed materials about the origins, programs and administration of the Fuqua School of Business.
The collection largely includes grade books and account books. These consist of personal account books (Gannaway, like many other teachers, was also a working farmer) and college account books. They have not been separated. The is a report to the Trustees from 1864 as well as miscellaneous memoranda, receipts, financial records and notes, and a small amount of correspondence, including a letter from E. F. Finch in 1888 that concerns the financial affairs of Charles Heitman and their effects on Trinity College. The material ranges in date from 1853-1906.
Hte collection includes financial documents from Addoms House, including an account book as well as an undated constitution and records of the social activities of students living in Gilbert-Addoms Residence Hall at Duke University from 1991-1992.
This collection includes personal and professional correspondence, manuscripts, research notes, scrapbooks, diaries, diplomas, a baptismal certificate, account books, postcards, and photographs pertaining to Glasson's family, career, and interests. The major subjects are the growth of the Department of Economics and the Graduate School at Duke University, Trinity College's efforts to obtain a Phi Beta Kappa chapter, and Duke University's contract with the Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (TIAA) of America.
Correspondence includes a letter to William P. Few (February 22, 1934) signed by 24 faculty members praising Duke's record on academic freedom, reports directed to University administrators, and copies of family genealogical material. A significant correspondent is H. Clay Evans, the US Commissioner of Pensions.
In 1934, Glasson and Dean Wannamaker were among a group of academics who travelled to Germany on a Carl Schurz Tour to see the effects of Hitler's rise to power. The scrapbooks include maps, clippings, postcards, notes, and an itinerary from this trip.
Glasson's manuscripts include recollections of Trinity and Duke, a variety of writings and lectures on money and banking, pension systems, and Durham's charter of incorporation. Also in the collection are ten diaries (1898-1944); three family account books (1900-1937), including one that details Glasson's daughters' expenses while students at Duke; scrapbooks of clippings; photographs of Glasson as a young man; poems; and photographs of Cornell University.
This correspondence centers around Glasson's involvement in the Department of Economics and the Graduate School at Trinity College and Duke University, and his interest in pension systems. It includes a letter to William P. Few (February 22, 1934) signed by 24 faculty members praising Duke's record on academic freedom, reports directed to University administrators, and copies of family genealogical material. A significant correspondent is H. Clay Evans, the US Commissioner of Pensions.
Class notebooks kept while Glasson was a student, manuscripts, lecture notes, diaries, account books, and personal reflections captured in poems and prose. Included are recollections of Trinity College and Duke University, a variety of writings and lectures on money and banking, pension systems, and Durham's charter of incorporation. There are 10 diaries (1898-1944); three family account books (1900-1937), including one that details his daughters' expenses while students at Duke; copies of poems; and letters to the editor written to local newspapers.
Includes correspondence.
Five lectures delivered at Johns Hopkins University.
Includes commencement and graduation exercises, and a copy of Alexander Hamilton's Report on Manufactures presented to Dr. Glasson by John Franklin Crowell.
Drafts and copies of the city of Durham's charter and act to incorporate, Glasson's diplomas, and scrapbooks kept while he was on the 1934 Carl Schurz Tour to see the effects of Hitler's rise to power. The scrapbooks include maps, clippings, postcards, notes, and an itinerary from this trip.
Contains records from Graduate Liberal Studies program, including records of previous director Diane Sasson and outgoing director Donna Zapf. Some records were left in GLS by Craufurd Goodwin. The materials include programs, curriculum development, faculty folders, photographs, slides, and correspondence.
photographs; slides; contact sheets
The Duke Graduate Students Union records span 2013-2018, with the bulk of the material from 2016-2017. Records include correspondence with University administration, the Graduate and Professional Student Council (GPSC), DGSU membership, and University listserves, as well as solidarity letters from other labor entities. Also included are promotional materials such as presentations and advertisements, collected anti-union organizing materials, meeting notes, legal documents filed with the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) related to the petition to unionize, media coverage, and photographs of events held by DGSU during their campaign.
Michael Becker's handwritten notes: "these notes are from a July 30, 2016 training on university endowments and financing sponsored by SEIU for Duke, UNC, and local community college adjunct faculty, graduate student workers and undergraduate labor solidarity activists. Presenters were from the whistleblowing / activist-research groups LittleSis and Hedge Clippers. This training was part of developing a deeper analysis of Duke's finances to make a case for the financial feasibility of the changes to graduate student funding, benefits, and other measures we were making and to develop messaging to our fellow graduate student workers."
The collection contains the academic and personal papers of John R. Gregg, Professor Emeritus of Zoology at Duke University. The collection includes correspondence between Gregg and leading biologists such as Joseph Henry Woodger and Arstrid Lindenmayer and notes and drafts of Gregg's many publications, research notes on a variety of subjects in Biology and Zoology, and materials related to lectures given by Gregg. The collection also reflects Gregg's experiences as a professor of Zoology at Duke University with lecture notes and class materials relating to classes he taught. Materials also include personal papers relating to Gregg's passionate interest in archery, including blueprints and designs of archery equipment created by Gregg.
The Research series contains notes, publications and other materials that Gregg collected and employed during his research in Zoology. The Publications subseries deals with materials related to publications authored by Gregg during his career, including his 1954 book, The Language of Taxonomy. Also included are book reviews of other publications published by Gregg. Materials in this subseries are organized alphabetically by title. Materials include drafts of the publications containing edits and annotations, source lists and notes that Gregg took while preparing the publications. Also included are Gregg's notes relating to an unfinished manuscript from 1963 on developmental energetics. The Research Notes subseries contains materials related to different research subjects, organized alphabetically by title as well as several bound notebook containing notes by Gregg. The Lectures subseries contains materials related to lecture talks given by Gregg during his career, including his 1958 lecture in Europe.
The Class Lecture Notes series contains materials Gregg used for teaching in the Zoology department at Duke University. Materials include lesson notes, tests and source lists related to individual classes taught by Gregg, as well as notes and sources Gregg compiled to teach general topics in Zoology such as regeneration and nuclear differentiation.
The Archery series includes materials related to Gregg's hobby of archery and contains correspondence between Gregg and manufacturers of archery equipment, designs of archery equipment created by Gregg and his 1982 manuscript, Elements of Longbow Design. This series also contains notes on Gregg's efforts to donate the archery collection of his friend Russell G. Wilcox to the Smithsonian Institution.
The Correspondence series contains letters and postcards written to and from Gregg. The subseries J.H. Woodger contains correspondence related to the professional collaboration and personal friendship between Gregg and the British biological philosopher Joseph Henry Woodger beginning in 1954 and ending with Woodger's death in 1974. Many of the materials reflect the development of the axiomatic theory including Woodger's comments on Gregg's work and ideals and copies of notes and lectures sent to Gregg by Woodger. The correspondence also includes materials related to a trip by Woodger to the United States and his visit to Gregg in Durham. Folders within this subseries are organized chronologically. The general correspondence subseries contains other letters received by Gregg including his correspondence with Hungarian biologist Aristid Lindenmayer, the developer of the Lindenmayer system and other correspondence received by Gregg during his career.
Contains the personal and professional papers of Paul M. Gross. Gross served as a leader of many national scientific organizations. At Duke University, he was Assistant Professor of Chemistry (1919-1920), William H. Pegram Professor of Chemistry (1920-1965), Chair of the Chemistry Department (1921-1948), Dean of the Graduate School (1947-1952), Dean of the University (1952-1958), and Vice-President in the Educational Division (1949-1960). Types of materials include correspondence, clippings, reports, research papers, meeting notes, conference materials, contracts, speeches, dedications, eulogies, lecture notes, financial information, postcards, and building plans. Materials range in date from 1935-1979. Box 43 was added to the finding aid 8 March 2007 and is unprocessed.
Topics include the importance of graduate schools, specialization in science, and the environment. Includes addresses, dedications, eulogies, lectures, panel discussions, and retirement and testimonial dinner addresses.
Topics include the importance of graduate schools, specialization in science, and the environment.
Includes correspondence with some professional organizations, mostly American Chemical Society and UNESCO-related
Includes meeting notes, lectures, speeches, correspondence, reports, member lists, and general material regarding Gross and the American Chemical Society and UNESCO.
Includes meeting notes, lectures, speeches, correspondence, clippings, and reports of the National Science Foundation and the National Science, Board Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Science Committee
Includes grant proposals, reports on higher education funding, behavioral studies, and occupational retirement.
Includes Arthur Hollis Edens correspondence
Includes correspondence, notes, reports, and minutes from various Duke University committees, professional organizations, and other university chemistry departments.
Includes correspondence, notes, reports, and minutes from various Duke University committees, professional organizations, and other university chemistry departments.
Includes Divinity School and Department of Education
Includes Department of English and enrollment statistics
Includes German Department and School of Forestry
Includes History Department and Law School
Includes Nursing School
Includes Physical Education (from Women), Physics, and Political Science
Includes Registrar, Religion Department, and Research Council
Includes space allocation, and summer session
Includes University Council and Woman's College
Contains a mixture of personal, political and professional correspondence, the latter being usually scholarly in nature, with some evaluations of grant proposals and recommendations. The folder on the Nixon Library controversy contains correspondence and printed matter, with a few petitions and name-and-address blanks from contributors to the opposition to the Library, in which Guttman was instrumental. The collection ranges in date from 1952-1982.
Collection primarily consists of abstracts of articles which Hauser was co-author. Collection also contains a few personal items including his transcript from the University of Florida-Gainesville, the final examination program for his Ph.D., commemorative certificate for the American Chemical Society Award for Creative Work in Synthetic Organic Chemistry, and a letter offering the position of Instructorship in Chemistry at Duke University.
The collection includes personal, professional and official material, primarily correspondence and memoranda, concerning Holly's training and his subsequent career in Duke's History Dept. and his service on the Honors Committee of the Undergraduate Faculty Council. There is correspondence with Harold Lewis, E. M. Carroll and other historians which documents the way in which the department sought to bring along young scholars; other letters illustrate concerns the faculty had over matters such as segregation and race relations in the 1950s and 1960s. Some letters describe preparations for E. M. Carroll's Festschrift. There is a small amount of family correspondence and material relating to Hollyday's teaching and professional activities, such as National Archives conferences and the Southern Historical Association. Also included are the records of the Undergraduate Faculty Council Committee on Honors which Hollyday chaired in the late 1960s and probably received records from his predecessors. The collection ranges in date from 1943-1971.
The collection features musical scores, orchestrations, sheet music, scripts, programs, posters, a scrapbook, video and audio recordings, and administrative materials. Materials range in date from 1941 to 2019.
Additional Hoof 'n' Horn posters can be found in the University Archives Poster Collection.
Largely unidentified and undated, many are loose, include both color and black/white, cast shots and production shots.
Contains photos, videos, and audio recordings of Hoof 'n' Horn's production of Cole.
The Office of Human Resources Reference Collection contains files of memoranda, personnel policy notices, employee handbooks and newsletters; policy manuals; news clippings, brochures, and other printed materials. The collection is organized in five series: 1) Management 2) Personnel Department 3) Awards 4) Training 5) Benefits
The collection contains policy statements, wage and salary information, pay range documentation, and various other materials relating to employee relations and personnel management at Duke University. Specifically it contains lists of job families for exempt and non-exempt positions, surveys, and material related to Duke Personnel Management Council. The materials in this collection range in date from 1979-2000.
The Interfraternity Council at Duke University, established in 1957, is the umbrella organization for Duke University chapters of national fraternities. The Interfraternity Council primarily interacts with the Council of Presidents (presidents of campus fraternities) to promote adherence to University policies and to create leadership opportunities for fraternities to serve the campus community. This collection contains meeting agenda and minutes, pledge programs, certificates, manuals, chapter constitutions and bylaws, incident reports, and printed material related to the Interfraternity Council's governance over fraternities at Duke University. Materials range in date from 1947-2001
Contains minutes and agendas from Board of Advisors, and Council of Presidents and Executive Board meetings.
Contains incident reports, correspondence, and appeals relating to investigations of misconduct by fraternities.
Contains constitutions, bylaws, and miscellaneous notes on chapter establishment of fraternities.
Contains general materials about grades, pledging, housing, rush, leadership, and scholarship of fraternities at Duke University. Ordered alphabetically by subject. Contains restricted materials.
Includes correspondence, agendas, memoranda, alcohol policy draft, fundraising, position papers by students
The collection's files document Duke University's International Comparative Studies (ICS) program's academic mission and operations, chiefly dating from the 1980s to 2011. The mateials comprise course files, correspondence and memos, budgets, grant files, awards, ICS programming and conferences, alumni information, newsletter files, student work, questionnaires, and files about related organizations on campus. The latter include Duke administrative offices as well as Comparative Area Studies (CAS).
syllabi
notes, emails, handouts
texts and syllabi
student papers
handwritten notes
notes, emails, handouts
handwritten notes
student work
forms
texts
handwritten and typed notes
handwritten notes and handouts
notes, handouts, and student feedback
student papers
emails, thesis proposals
notes and emails
student proposals
student proposals
notes, emails, thesis proposals
student proposals
notes
notes and thesis proposal
student proposals
syllabi and handouts
notes and student work
notes
notes
handwritten notes
notes and student papers
notes and student papers
notes and student papers
notes, texts, and student papers
syllabi and texts
notes and thesis proposals
notes and texts
notes and student papers
notes and text
notes and texts
student papers
student evaluations
memos, rosters, and notes
grade reports
grade reports, student evaluations, and assignments
texts
notes
notes
notes, emails, student evaluations
notes
notes and texts
article clippings, business cards, notes
notes
notes and texts
notes and student evaluations
minutes
thesis evaluations
grade reports, memos, letters
letters
thesis evaluations
thesis evaluations
thesis proposals
thesis evaluations
memos and letters
letters and thesis proposals
letters and thesis proposals
letters
letters and thesis proposals
letters and thesis proposals
thesis proposals and grant applications
thesis proposals and evaluations
notecards, rosters, graduation program
notecards, rosters, letters
contact information forms
alumni news forms
newsletters
newsletter and questionnaires
brochures, course listings, and letters
student data
memos
memos, course list, syllabus
flier
mailing lists
letters
letters and memos
letters
letters
applications
applications
letters and applications
flier
letters
letters
letters
letters
newsletters
reports
mailing list
letters and report
contact information forms
typed index cards and brochure
letters and roster
thesis evaluations
thesis evaluations
letters
letters and memos
proposal, letters and memos
proposals and letters
proposals and letters
proposals and letters
letters and proposal
reports
memos and proposals
letters and proposals
questionnaires
questionnaires and mailing list
index cards and questionnaires
letters and lists
index cards and questionnaires
report
lists
proposal, letter and memo
proposal and letters
memos and forms
memos and proposal
proposal
proposals and letters
proposal and memos
letters and budgets
letters
letters and fliers
memos and letters
print-outs and manual
budget, lists and letters
budgets and instructions
budgets and memos
budgets, memos and print-out
print-outs, memos and manual
budgets, manual, and memos
letters, lists and manual
memos and manual
budgets, letters and manual
budgets and memos
major requirements lists
itinerary and flier
handouts and memo
letters and lists
letters and forms
letters and forms
reports
forms and letters
letters, lists and fliers
letters, lists and brochures
letters and fliers
application
lists and fliers
letters
notes
evaluation materials
letters and forms
handouts and report
memos, lists and notes
notes, letters and resumes
letters and lists
letters, notes and print-outs
print-outs
lists
letters, notes and lists
forms
forms
budget, letter and manuals
notes
letters and list
notes
applications
print-outs
print-out
memos, budgets and outlines
notes
report
letters
forms, lists, letters and print-outs
lists and notes
lists and notes
lists and notes
forms, lists, letters and budgets
rosters
letters
letters and lists
lists and report
notes and print-outs
print-outs
notes, letters, budget and report
program and remarks
notes, letters and proposal
applications
lists
emails
emails
letters
brochures
letters
lists and emails
letters
emails and lists
emails and lists
letters
letters
letters and lists
list
print-outs, handouts, emails and lists
print-outs, handouts, emails and lists
print-outs, handouts, emails and lists
print-outs, handouts, emails and lists
print-outs, handouts, emails and lists
print-outs, handouts, emails and lists
print-outs, handouts, emails and lists
brochures
emails, reports and lists
forms
proposals
letter
lists
forms
forms
emails, forms and lists
emails, forms and lists
letters
Collection includes an invitation and remarks made by Nannerl Overholser Keohane for the 1997 James B. Duke Society Gala Recognition Weekend.
Four folders contain newspaper clippings, photos, programs, invitations, tickets, booklets, advertisements, posters, and memorabilia related to the Duke University music department, as well as George "Jelly" Leftwich's personal photos and documents. The items date from 1925 to 1931, the bulk of which is from Leftwich's time as conductor of Duke University Club Orchestra. The folders combined consist of approximately 120 pages.
Contains news clippings, correspondence, journal entries, wedding invitations, telegrams, photographs, event programs, tickets, as well as some of Cole's own poems, essays and short stories. The scrapbook ranges in date from 1905-1919.
This scrapbook contains clippings, correspondence, photographs, and memorabilia from Cole's last year at Trinity College, and from his subsequent career. Materials from his time at Trinity College include photographs and memorabilia from athletics, Glee Club, and Alpha Tau Omega events. Also included are wedding invitations and clippings, including some related to the wedding of Mary Duke Biddle. Cole wrote and included many journal-style entries about his daily life, particularly during the years 1909-1912. The scrapbook also contains ephemera from his travel to Paris and his career in New York, as well newspaper obituaries upon the death of his father. Loosely arranged in chronological order.
Types of material include correspondence, historical accounts, photographs, printed materials, and scrapbooks. Major subjects include student life at Duke University, establishment of a sorority, organization, pledging, initiation, community service activities, social activities, general governance, leadership, and public relations. The material ranges in date from 1935-1981.
Contains congratulation letters upon rechartering, a letter to parents about sorority life, photographs, and a typed chapter history.
Contains bound volumes about the history of Kappa Delta sorority.
Contains scrapbooks from the Sigma Delta Chapter. The 1957-1960 scrapbook was disassembled and placed into folders due to preservation concerns. Materials tucked inside the back cover of the 1975-1977 scrapbook were also placed into folders. Other scrapbooks remain intact and are boxed separately due to their size.
Contains correspondence, diplomatic papers, conference papers, articles, printed matter and other materials related to Dr. Kulski's role as a Polish diplomat before and during World War II and as a lecturer and teacher of Political Science after the war. The materials, approximately half of which are in Polish, pertain to Slavic Studies, Soviet politics and government, and issues in European diplomacy and politics before, during and after World War II. The collection includes hand- and typed-written manuscripts in Polish, English, French and German and materials by and about his brother, Julian E. (1905-1988), including a memoir of Stefan Starzynski, mayor of Warsaw. Also included is the correspondence of Antonina Kulski, largely in Polish with a few in English and French. Her letters that largely cover the Kulski's time in London during World War II and consists of communication with Polish soldiers, namely Kazimierz Domaszewski and Bohdan Brzozowski. There are also some photographs of presumably Polish soldiers during World War II and likely Kulksi family members and friends. There is also a scrapbook of clippings and correspondence. Material ranges in date from 1710-1987, with the bulk covering 1933-1969.
Contains materials pertaining to the personal and professional activities of William Thomas Laprade, educator, historian, editor, and civic leader in the Duke University community. Papers include correspondence, notes, reports, printed materials, manuscript materials, photographs, diplomas, memorabilia, clippings, student papers, and letters. Materials include research and manuscript materials for books on 17th, 18th, and 19th century Europe, as well as a letter from Anthony Eyre to his brother-in-law, Sir John Newton, English mathematician and astronomer (1660). Correspondence concerns professional interests, Laprade's family, the Great Depression, World War I, and World War II. A complete alphabetical index to named persons in this collection, including correspondence, can be found in Box 16. The oversize box contains materials from the Laprade collection that were formerly housed in the map cabinets and the General Oversize collection. Materials range in date from 1660-1975 (bulk 1898-1975).
Personal and Laprade family letters are concerned with family and local news, health, church meetings, grain production at the family mill in Rivermont, Va., the 1908 presidential election, and Laprade's father's voting machine invention. From about 1902 to 1904, Laprade participated in a large network of correspondence centered in the Weekly Courier-Journal newspaper of Louisville, Ky. Students wrote in, under pseudonyms, to discuss their ideals and problems. Other correspondence subjects include the effects of World War I and World War II on the Laprade family.
Collection consists of computer files comprising oral histories conducted by students with LGBTQ Duke alumni in 2015 and 2016. The oral histories document the inviduduals' experiences as members of the LGBTQ community before, during, and after their time at Duke. The alumni attended Duke between the mid-1970s and 2000s and describe experiences at and around Duke and Durham, North Carolina from a variety of perspectives and time periods.
Some interviews also compare the LGBTQ experience at Duke and in Durham to other locations around the country over different time periods.
This series includes oral history recordings in electronic form, along with electronic field notes and tape logs. The interview subjects are Duke alumni interviewed as part of the service-learning course LGBTQ History and Activism: Duke, Durham, and Beyond in Spring 2015 and Spring 2016.
David Anderson was raised in Raleigh, North Carolina. He attended Duke between 1985 and 1989 as an Angier B. Duke (AB) Scholar. He co-founded the reconstituted Duke Gay and Lesbian Association (DGLA, later Duke Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual Association, Gothic Queers, Alliance of Queer Undergraduates [AQUADuke], and Blue Devils United). He also participated in Hoof 'n' Horn and Duke Chapel Choir. He currently runs a music business in Raleigh. Anderson is interviewed twice by different interviewers. In multiple interviews, Anderson talks about his family background. Anderson also discusses discovering his sexuality during his first year at Duke, and the prolonged process of coming out. Of note is his discussion about his isolation and the lack of resources for gay students at Duke at the time. Although the DGLA existed at the time, Anderson discusses its secretive nature during his first years at Duke and how this and other events factored into making rechartering the organization as an open and visible presence in 1988. He further describes the fears around openness and some of DGLA's public activities. He describes casual homophobia he experienced at Duke. Also discussed are the differences between Duke and Durham's environment for LGBTQ people, the importance of mentorship to LGBTQ young people in the late 1980s, and how the Duke community reacted to the HIV/AIDS crisis. Also included are a formal paper by Anderson describing his experience at the first Blue Jeans Day in 1988 as well as his personal notes created in preparation for the oral history interview.
Christopher Bragg was born in Elon, North Carolina. He studied psychology at Duke University, graduating in 1990. During his undergraduate years at Duke, Bragg worked in research labs at Duke Medicine and served as a peer counselor. Bragg continued his education at UNC-Chapel Hill where he attained a Ph. D. in neuroscience. In 2000, Bragg moved to Boston to complete a post doctorate at Harvard. As of 2016, Bragg runs a laboratory at Massachusetts General Hospital. In this oral history, Bragg describes on his early family life. He discusses LGBTQ progress at Duke during the late 1980s, comparing, throughout, the environment at Duke to that at Yale, as well as to Durham and Chapel Hill, and finally to Boston and Harvard. Bragg also describes the creation and fostering of community during this time by the Duke Gay and Lesbian Association (DGLA). Bragg also mentions the pushback from some to the increasing visibility of LGBTQ people at Duke. Also described is the differences in experience between the men and women in DGLA. Bragg talks about sexual expression as an undergraduate and how it was affected by the HIV/AIDS crisis.
Daniel Ellison grew up in New York and Miami before attending college at Duke University, from where he graduated in 1977. He later received graduate degrees in both folklore and law from the University of North Carolina. Ellison founded the Durham Arts Place after graduating and became involved in activism. Over the years, Dan has become involved in the Duke LGTBQ Network, and as of 2016 teaches classes as an adjunct professor at Duke on Non-Profit Cultural Institutions and the intersection of law, identity, and the performing arts. In this oral history, Ellison describes the broader culture at Duke in the mid-1970s. Ellison talks about his own sexual identity as one of ambivalence during his years at Duke. Ellison discusses the differences between LGBTQ life during his student years at Duke and the LGBTQ life he observes as an adjunct professor and involved faculty member. Also discusses is activism around LGBTQ rights in Durham and the surrounding area.
Meredith Emmett graduated from Duke University in 1982 with a degree in Mechanical Engineering. She likes to say that she "majored in activism and minored in engineering," due to her involvement with the North Carolina Policy Interest Research Group (NC PIRG). Following graduation, she began working as a carpenter. Emmett has worked in energy conservation and served as the director of three non-profit organizations. As of 2016, Emmett lives in Durham and works as coach and trainer for non-profits. In this oral history, Emmett discusses her activism on campus. Emmett talks about the difference between issue- and identity-based activism, and that her years at Duke saw more issue movements than identity movements. Other topics include how the HIV/AIDS epidemic affected Emmett personally, mentors Karl Wittman and Allen Troxler, organizing a gay pride march in the early 1980s, and her experience with Pride PAC (later Equality NC).
Kelly Jarrett attended Duke in the late 1980s and early 1990s, and later worked for the university until 2014. At Duke, Jarrett was an instructor in the Department of Religion, an assitant managing editor at Duke University Press, and an administrator in the Duke Islamic Studies Center. She was a founding member of the Old West Durham Neighborhood Association, which was formed after a series of race, gender, and sexual orientation-based aggressions against her and her partner. In this oral history, Jarrett describes her gender and sexual identity, her life in the Midwest, Northeast, and Southeast, and her current work. She contrasts her experiences with the relationship between Duke and Durham with those at Yale and New Haven. She also speaks of the differences between the graduate and undergraduate student life in terms of LGBTQ identity. Also discussed are the institutional issues regarding the treatement of and respect for sexual, gender, and racial minorities.
Tim Koch attended Duke from 1979 to 1983, and later attended Boston University and Arizona State University. He has worked as a pastor, professor of divinity, and lawyer. As of 2016, he lives and works in Chicago, Illinois. In this oral history, Koch describes his upbringing, the realization of his sexuality, and his early experiences in a church youth group. He also discusses his years at Duke, and contrasts his early experiences at Duke to those after a study abroad stint in England. Also discussed are Koch's AIDS diagnosis, the invisibility of the queer community during his student years, and the changes he saw upon returning to Duke in the 1990s.
Beth Ann Koelsch was born in Buck's County, Pennsylvania. She attended Duke in 1985 and from 1986-1990. She has lived in Durham, North Carolina since then, working a variety of jobs including food service, the Duke Women's Center, the Durham Food Co-Op, and LadySlipper. As of 2016, she is curator for the Women's Veterans History Project at the University of North Carolina-Greensboro. In this oral history, Koelsch talks about her early life in Pennsylvania, her life at Duke, and her post-graduation professional life. Koelsch describes Duke's environment in the late 1980s. She describes coming out to her roommate, meeting her partner at WXDU, and activism--both nationally and on campus. Koelsch discusses gay and lesbian-friendly workplaces in Durham, as well as her work life in Durham and Greensboro. Other topics of discussion include the idea of outing celebrities and politicians in the 1980s, the treatment of gays and lesbians in campus, local, and national publications, and the changes in the treatment of LGBTQ people at Duke and in Durham since her years as a student.
Raised in Anchorage, Alaska and Burlington, North Carolina, Daniel Miller attended the University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill and attended graduate school at duke in the mid 2000s, earning an MAT in 2007. As of 2016, he works as a teacher of English at Jordan High School. In this oral history, Miller discusses the intersection between education and identity, coming out and how it affected his relationship with his father, and experiences as a gay educator in a public school system. Miller also describes the LGBTQ communities in Anchorage, Burlington, Durham, and Raleigh, and at UNC. In addition, Miller discusses the change in LGBTQ identity over time.
Seth Pardo attended Duke in the late 1990s and early 2000s, graduating in 2003. He later earned a PhD at Cornell. As of 2015, Pardo taught at the California School fo Professional Psychology and worked for the San Francisco Department of Public Health. In this oral history, Pardo discusses his family ties to Duke, the development of his academic and personal interest in gender identities and identity formation, and his attempts at connection with the transgender community in the Raleigh-Durham-Chapel Hill area. Pardo also describes his difficulty seeking help from Duke's Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS), but also the support offered from his family and friends. Also discussed is the increased acceptance at Duke in recent years as well as advice for future generations.
Connie Pearcy was raised in Arkansas and attended Duke in the 1990s, serving as Student Body President during her senior year and graduating in 1996. As of 2015, Pearcy worked in the information technology field. In this oral history, Pearcy discusses her recent marriage to her partner of many years, their children, and her work life. She also describes her coming out at school and the considerations involved in coming out to her family. Also discussed are intersectionality, the differences in experience for gay white women versus gay women of color. Pearcy further describes the LGBTQ community at Duke in the 1990s, including the Gay and Lesbian Alliance and Blue Jeans Day.
Steve Ritchie attended Duke in the late 1980s, graduating in 1990, and later earned an Masters in Business Administration from Dartmouth. Though not out during his time at Duke, his attendance overlapped with the Duke Gay and Lesbian Alliance Blue Jeans Day and other campus events increasing LGBTQ visibility at the university. As of 2016, Ritchie lived and worked in Seattle, Washington. In this oral history, Ritchie discusses his upbringing in the rural Midwest, his experience at Duke in the 1980s, and his experiences since moving on from Duke. He contrasts his experience at Duke and Dartmouth, and contextualizes many of his specific observations by discussing the state of overall LGBTQ life in the United States.
Dr. Jerome Smith was born in Trenton, New Jersey. He attended Duke in the late 1980s, graduating from the Pratt School of Engineering in 1990. At Duke, he was active in the Duke Chapel Choir and various theatre groups. He later earned his medical degree from George Washington University. As of 2016, Smith lives and works in Sonoma, California. In this oral history, Smith discusses the development of his sexual identity. Smith describes viewing his desire for having and raising children as mutually exclusive from being an out gay man. He also describes his impressions of Durham's intolerance and his lack of awareness of Durham LGBTQ communities. In comparing experiences as a Duke student to those as a medical student at George Washington, Smith describes experiencing discrimination at the latter, which he attributes to being out during this time whereas he was closeted at Duke.
Leslie Tobin is a Duke alumna who transferred from Franklin and Marshall College in Pennsylvania in 1973. At Duke, she was active in the Duke Gay Alliance (DGA) and the Lesbian Rap Group (later Triangle Area Lesbian Feminists [TALF]. After graduation, Leslie became a carpenter and later went on to own their own construction company. As of 2016, Tobin is married and living in Durham with her wife close to Duke campus. In this oral history, Tobin discusses her experiences at Duke in the 1970s, the first time coming together in community with LGBTQ people, and defining her identity as a lesbian. Of particular note is her discussion of the split between the DGA and TALF. Tobin describes raising a child as a lesbian. Also included are discussions of Tobin's carpentry and construction, as well as lesbian activism around AIDS, racism, and religious violence.
Katherine Turner attended Duke from 1986-1990. While at Duke, Turner was active with the Peer Information Service for Counseling and Education in Sexuality (PISCES) Center. After graduation, she served in the Peace Corps and attended UNC-Chapel Hill's Public Health program. As of 2016, Turner lives in Durham and serves on the programming committee of the Duke Human Rights Center's Pauli Murray Project. In this oral history, Turner describes her activities on campus as a student with PISCES, writing for the Duke Women's Handbook, and pushback from other student groups. Turner further discusses the varying degrees of being out students may be, as well as the transgender community on campus. Also described are queer spaces in the Durham community, LGBTQ-specific events at Duke and in Durham, and stigma around the gay community and AIDS. Turner later describes her current connection to Duke and how the activism she was involved with at Duke has continued in her life.
The Daniel A. Livinstone papers consist primarily of the extensive correspondence of Daniel Livingstone with scientists and colleagues related to his research interests in biology, limnology, paleolimnology, and other subjects. Other materials are related to his work on a variety of research grants, classes taught at Duke University, and other topics.
This collection has not yet been processed.
RESTRICTED
RESTRICTED
RESTRICTED
RESTRICTED
RESTRICTED
Project leaders: Roland Paepe and Leon De Meyer
The collection consists of a scrapbook, class notes, memorabilia, photographs, and two personal calendars. The scrapbook includes event programs, namecards, newsclippings, invitations, photographs, documents, a rock, a cigar, matchbooks, corsages, and other mementos from Gloria Bowen's time at Duke. Also included are materials related to Goon Day, including Gloria Bowen's Goon sign, orientation materials, class assignments and notes from several classes (French, Spanish, Music, Philosophy, Zoology, Logic, and some related to parliamentary procedures), photographs of the Woman's College and students, calendars from 1944 and 1946 (the years Gloria Bowen entered and left Duke University) describing social activities, and other materials.
The Duke Chronicle featuring picture of Peggy Otto (friend of Gloria Bowen McCoy) after selection as beauty queen.
Includes photographs of classmates from Woman's College, many of them identified, as well as a few views of campus.
Scrapbook contains family photos, photos of Angus McDougall's sculptures, clippings, a book jacket for George Roy Elliot's 1953 Flaming Minister: A Study of Othello as a Story of Love and Hate designed by McDougall and a 1959 letter with accompanying photographs from "Brother Tom."
The collection contains scripts, publicity, and production materials related to the productions of Me Too Monologues on the campus of Duke university. Most records date from 2011-2014, with web captures of the group's website in 2015 and 2017-ongoing.
Includes meeting agendas, meeting minutes, budgets, rehearsal schedules, application forms, proposals, guest list, and alumni list.
Includes logos, banners, program brochures, images from events.
This collection contains prize winning papers, information about the prize, nomination forms, correspondence and other records.
Contains correspondence, photographs, postcards, clippings and other materials primarily concerning Mrs. Mimms' career as secretary to Duke's presidents. The collection includes letters from Dr. Knight, Mr. Sanford, W. M. Upchurch and other University figures and the memorial volume from her husband's funeral. The material ranges in date from 1946-1986.
The 9019 records contain ritual and member lists, program and contest advertisements, ceremonial robes, founding documents, letters, photographs, memorabilia and other papers related to this honor society. Major subjects include: intellectual life; student societies; initiations and rites and ceremonies; oratory competitions, and the South Atlantic Quarterly. The dates of the materials range from 1892-1944.
These records were produced by Omicron Delta Kappa in the course of their activities as a campus leadership honor society from 1926 to 1971. The bulk of the material consists of correspondence, information on membership elections, minutes, and information on national and provincial conventions. Physical types of materials include by-laws, certificates of membership, correspondence, financial records, history, initiation ritual, manuals, membership lists and cards, membership selection point system, minutes, newsletters, reports both from the Rho Circle and from national and provincial conventions, programs, and photographs.
The History and Membership folder contains pages that originally were bound together as a book, dating from 1926-1933. Financial records show the income and expenditures, although some of this information is also contained in the minutes. The folder titled "Point System," which details the system by which students earned recognition by the society, although there is some indication in the minutes that the student body in general was not aware of this system of points. Unclaimed certificates are membership certificates never collected by members for various reasons, and show what the certificates looked like over the years.
Correspondence is divided into three sections: general chapter correspondence, the banquet of 1950, and that of faculty and Rho Circle chapter member Frank C. Brown. The correspondence addresses general chapter business, chapter development, and the initiation banquet of 1950.
Contains letters of invitation to membership, responses, and general member lists.
The minutes detail the interests and activities of members from about 1931 to 1963. The minutes from 1930-1931 are contained in the "History and Membership" folder in Series 1. Some topics covered in the minutes are fraternity rushing, social standards, school spirit, membership elections, national and provincial business, student government activities, honor system and cheating, politics on campus, the Beta Omega Sigma sophomore honor society, Duke-Navy relations during World War II, and campus activities and events. The material related to Duke-Navy student relations is located throughout the 1942-1945 minutes. The January 10, 1942 minutes contain an itemized fraternity plan of wartime economy. The 1942 minutes contain a proposed constitution for an inter-honorary fraternity council.
Contains information on conventions such as announcements, programs, and reports are contained in the "National and Provincial Conventions" folders.
Contains printed materials produced by the Rho Circle chapter and Omicron Delta Kappa headquarters.
Records contain printed materials; publications; meeting minutes; annual reports; housing reviews; residential hall constitutions and officer lists; Panhellenic alcohol surveys; correspondence; judicial files and letters; and composite photographs related to the administration of Duke University fraternity and sorority programs. Administrative documents for Greek Leadership Conferences; Interfraternity Council; and the National Pan-Hellenic Council are also included. In addition to documenting the histories of Panhellenic on-campus groups, the Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life records, 1964-2012 provide material on Duke University students in general, including their social life, political activity, and changing social customs throughout the 20th and 21st centuries.
The Operations and Maintenance Dept. Records include correspondence, plans, architectural drawings, blueprints, financial records, contracts, desk diaries, and other materials related to the construction, maintenance, and use of the buildings of Duke University. The bulk of the collection details the extensive planning and construction of Duke's new West Campus in the 1920s and 1940s, as well as renovations and additions to the East Campus. Discussions with vendors and suppliers, architectural plans and blueprints, and the design of the grounds all contribute to the record of Duke's growth. The collection also includes diaries kept by what became the Operations and Maintenance Department. These record campus events over a nearly twenty year period.
Frank Clyde Brown was the supervisor of construction of the new buildings on the West Campus of Duke University from 1925-1930, as well as a literature professor at Duke. The files in this series pertain mainly to planning the construction of new buildings on the Duke Campus. The biographical note in for the Frank Clyde Brown Papers (located in the Duke University Archives) notes:
"Between 1924 and 1930, Brown was deeply absorbed in the expansion of Trinity College into Duke University, serving as a member of the Building Committee of the Board of Trustees and as the first comptroller of the University. As comptroller, he acted as the liaison for architects, contractors, suppliers, administrators, and faculty in the designing, construction, and equipping of the redesigned East Campus, which became the Woman's College, and of the completely new West Campus. Brown is credited with contributing many original ideas to the building plans, foremost of which was the discovery of the nearby Hillsborough, N.C. stone and the recommendation that this material be utilized in the construction of the Gothic West Campus. He also served as university marshal, planning all major formal celebrations and entertaining numerous distinguished visitors to the new university."
Brown's files in this series mainly contain correspondence, plans, contracts, some architectural drawings, and other materials related to construction. Several files have more relation to his interest in literature and his position as professor. Researchers should be aware that the materials in this series and the materials in the Frank Clyde Brown Papers are very closely related, and both collections may need to be examined.
Includes cost of Woman's College; contract with Trumbauer for West Campus; statement of general conditions for West Campus; and detail of reductions in original campus on West to reduce cost. Also includes 1 building plan.
Includes 2 drawings.
Includes 12 building plans.
Includes information on the Hillsborough Quarry; limestone and granite; library; and heating plant.
Includes 1 site plan.
Includes information on re-installation of the fraternity and the philosophy behind quads and fraternities in the architectural scheme of the university.
Includes a mention of Met exhibition, detailed analysis of stone materials.
Includes 1 blueprint, "Proposed Change in Boiler Room, B.N. Duke, Resident."
Includes 3 building plans
Includes negotiations on tunnel under Southern Railway East/West.
Contract for spur track to heating plat on Campus Drive and for track to Hillsborough Quarry.
Includes 1 blueprint drawing.
The S.W. Myatt Files series contains information about construction on the Duke Campus. Seth W. Myatt served as one of the Directors of the Duke Construction Company, as well as an Assistant to the President. The series contains correspondence, plans, contracts, many architectural drawings and blueprints, and other details related to construction at Duke in the 1930s, 1940s, and 1950s. A large post-war building program was undertaken at Duke from 1946 onward. During this period the growth of science and engineering projects jumped due to increased veteran enrollment in these programs. In addition to the materials mentioned above, the S.W. Myatt series also contains a collection of keys that were used in several Duke buildings.
Includes 22 architectural drawings and building plans.
Includes 18 architectural drawings and building plans.
Includes 1 architectural drawing.
Includes 2 site plans.
Includes 4 building plans.
Includes 4 building plans.
Includes 5 building plans.
Includes 1 building plan.
Includes 2 building plans.
Includes 1 building plan.
Includes 1 drawing.
Includes 4 architectural drawings.
Includes 4 building plans.
Includes 3 building plans.
Includes 1 building plan.
Includes 1 site plan.
Includes 3 maps.
Includes 1 building plan.
Includes 1 site plan.
Includes 1 site plan.
Includes 1 site plan.
Includes 5 architectural drawings and building plans.
Includes 2 site plans.
Includes 1 site plan.
Includes 2 building plans.
Includes 5 building plans.
Includes 4 architectural drawings and building plans.
Includes 1 site plan, and 8 architectural drawings and building plans.
Includes 4 architectural drawings.
Includes 2 site plans and 1 architectural drawing.
Includes 23 architectural drawings and building plans.
Includes 1 architectural drawing and 1 site plan.
Includes 22 architectural drawings, site plans, and building plans.
Includes 8 architectural drawings and building plans.
Includes 18 architectural drawings and building plans.
Includes 10 architectural drawings and building plans.
Includes 3 architectural drawings and building plans.
Includes 2 site plans and lists of square footages.
Includes 1 building plan.
Includes 4 building plans.
Includes 4 architectural drawings and building plans.
Includes 2 architectural drawings and building plans.
Includes 1 property plan.
Includes 1 building plan.
Includes 1 building plan and 1 site plan.
Includes 4 architectural drawings and building plans.
Myatt was a member of the committee
Includes 1 site plan.
Includes 1 building plan.
Includes 9 building plans.
Includes 1 site plan.
Includes 3 architectural drawings and building plans.
Includes 19 architectural drawings and building plans.
Includes 9 architectural drawings and building plans.
Includes 5 architectural drawings and building plans.
Includes 1 site plan.
Includes 2 building and site plans.
Includes 2 building plans.
Includes 1 building plan.
Includes 12 architectural drawings, site plans, and building plans.
Includes 2 building plans.
Includes 2 architectural drawings and building plans.
Includes 1 site plan.
Includes 4 site plans.
Includes 2 site plans.
Includes 7 architectural drawings and building plans.
Includes 3 architectural drawings and building plans.
Includes 7 architectural drawings and building plans.
Includes 2 architectural drawings and building plans.
Includes 1 site plan.
Includes 1 building plan.
Includes 8 architectural drawings and building plans.
Includes 18 architectural drawings and building plans.
Includes 2 building plans.
Includes 6 building plans.
Includes 2 architectural drawings.
Includes 1 building plan.
Includes 1 building plan.
Includes 4 architectural drawings and building plans.
Includes 2 architectural drawings.
Includes 1 architectural drawing.
The Duke Construction Company was formed in 1927 on the advisement of the Building Committee of the Duke Endowment. In a letter to Duke president R.L. Flowers, N.A. Cocke, Assistant Secretary of the Duke Endowment, wrote:
"It is hardly practicable to conduct the operations in the name of the trustees of The Duke Endowment for the reason that The Duke Endowment has no separate entity apart from the trustees, it not being a corporation. On the other hand while the title to the property is in Duke University the Will and Trust Indenture contemplate that the trustees shall erect the buildings for Duke University and turn same over when completed. With the idea, therefore, of establishing some medium for the purpose of carrying on this construction, it has occured to us that it would be wise to form a corporation, known as the "Duke Construction Company" for the sole purpose of constructing these buildings, with a nominal capital stock so that it will clearly appear that this corporation is merely an agency for carrying out this work."
The Duke Construction Company series consists mainly of financial and corporate records, such as articles of incorporation, tax reports, and a large invoice register. Actual construction plans can be found in the Frank C. Brown Files series and the S.W. Myatt Files series.
The Duke Construction Company was active in the 1930s and into the 1940s, but it then became dormant and was officially dissolved in 1957.
Includes a detailed list of costs per building.
The Desk Diaries series contains 19 volumes of diaries that detail daily events held at Duke. The Operations and Maintenance department served as the central booking agency for campus events, and these diaries record events, places, and times over a nearly twenty-year period.
This diary is located in Box 8.
Contains clippings, correspondence, subpoenas, summons and statements relating to a January 1964 civil rights demonstration in Chapel Hill, and subsequent trials in Hillsboro. Correspondence and court documents are photocopies.
Material includes minutes, reports, handouts, correspondence, memoranda, spiral-bound publications, diskettes (floppy disks), microcassettes and standard cassettes. Materials range in date from 1988-1995.
13 spiral-bound volumes [12 and 1 duplicate] detailing operations of the Business and Finance Committee of the Board of Trustees -- dating from November 6, 1988-March 28, 1993. Contain information prepared for meetings of the B and F Committee.
Volumes: Duke University FY 1990/91 Budget; Actual Financial Operations FY 1898/90, 1990/91 [2 vol.]; Forecast 1989/90 and 1990/91; Administrative Services Division FY1990/91 Analysis; Wiley and Wilson Sewer System and Steam Distribution Studies, 1990-1991 [3 vol.]; Project Nexus [future of computing at Duke], 1989; Strategic Plans for Information Systems, 1991; Facilities Audit, 1990.
Working/Subject Files [Energy Conservation, 1994; Heating Plant Task Force report; Infrastructure Summary report, 1992; Ad Hoc Committee on Formulas, Fall 1990; Formula Proposal, Fall 1990; Forecast, March 1990; 1991 Long-range Planning report titled "Strategic Issues in the 90s"]
Records include Carol O'Brien Associates Report on Development, 1995; 1994 draft of strategic plan for the Law School; minutes of the Alumni Affairs and Development [AA and D] Cabinet, 1994-1995; reports of various AA and D Task Forces, 1994, including materials on Duke Seminar planning; strategic plans for AA and D and the Alumni Association, 1993; and Operating Plans for AA and D from 1991-1994.
1995 PACOR review of DUMAC; 9/14/94 report to PACOR, "Recreation Facilities and Cameron Annex Project" [dup.]; fund-raising publications from other institutions and from Council for Advancement and Support of Education; drafts of strategic plans for Arts and Sciences [1994], School of Engineering [1994?], Divinity School [1993], and Fuqua School of Business [1994].
Some records of the President's Committee on Health Care [1990, chaired by Jim Cox] and 1992 Strategic Planning Committee [Cox served]. PACOR subjects include Capital Projects Subcommittee; fundraising and development; strategic plans, 1992; planning initiatives at Princeton; 1988 report of Parking and Traffic Task Force; and the Chancellor's Committee on Year-Round Education.
1992-93 Compensation Management Report; 1990 Facilities Audit; President's Committee on Health Care, 1990-1991; 1992 Forecast Information; University Financial Snapshot -- Projections for 1990-1995 and 1991-1996; 1992 Residential Hall Communications Cabling [GTE]; and revenue trial balances and one line summaries, FY89/90 and 90/91 [4 vol.].
[labeled "Confidential]: Allocated and restricted funds with activity, [FY89/90] and Allocated and restricted funds with limited activity, FY 89/90. Tapes of meetings -- micro and standard cassettes Diskettes 3.5"Enter scope/content note.
This collection contains material concerning Parker's experiences as a faculty member at Duke University, a soldier in World War II and as an author. The papers include correspondence, including v-mail, along with diaries, volumes, memoranda, reports, speeches, articles, photographs, essays, book drafts and other records. The volume titles include Back Load and Sky Train, which are histories of troop carrier forces in the South Pacific during World War II.
Material in boxes 12 and 13 were originally in a container labeled lectures/intellectual history.
Material in boxes 12 and 13 were originally in a container labeled lectures/intellectual history.
Consists of correspondence exchanged between Harold T. Parker, Carolyn West (White), and John C. White. Parker was the dissertation advisor for both Carolyn West and John C. White.
Consists of an essay written by Harold Parker and papers about Parker for the annual meeting.
The collection includes minutes, reports, bylaws, publications, and correspondence by the Duke Parliamentarians from 1990-1996. Minutes and reports include resolutions, discussions, and motions of the group, as well as some correspondence related to activities. Also included are copied of the Parliamentary Primer by Stan Brown and Handbook for Members created by the group.
Includes correspondence and other materials.
Collection contains a patent Duke scrapbook and additional assorted loose memorabilia. Materials present include a Class of 1962 ribbon, welcoming letters and printed matter from campus organizations to incoming students. Senders include the Judicial Board, the YWCA, and various sororities. Copies of the Cadueceus, the newsletter of the Duke PreMed Society, printed programs, and other material reflective of student life in the late 1950s and early 1960s is also present. Due to wear, items in scrapbook have been foldered in page order and the scrapbook pages discarded.
Collection contains course materials, Patrick's academic essays and lectures, academic and personal correspondence, Duke administrative and departmental memoranda and documents, photographs of Patrick's murals and sculptures, and news clippings relating to Duke University events.
The collection contains a typed manuscript, 553 pages, concerning Penfield's career as a sports broadcaster and writer, and as a member of the Duke staff. Topics include his years as a student at Duke, Eddie Cameron, Ted Mann, Vic Bubas, Wallace Wade and other members of the athletic staff, the 1942 Rose Bowl, the Duke Football Network (1952-1962), Duke Basketball in the 1950's and 1960's and other related subjects.
This collection includes minutes, correspondence, directories, workshop materials, constitution and by-laws, questionnaires and other material. Topics covered include Phi Alpha Delta Law Fraternity, International, and its history as well as the Duke University School of Law chapter of the fraternity.
The University Archives Photograph Collection consists of approx. 51,000 photographic prints, negatives, slides, illustrations, and a few daguerreotypes. The majority of the collection was generated by Duke University News Service, Duke University Photography, student publications, and university publications. The collection is arranged into four series: People, Activities, Buildings, and Separated Photographs. The People Series (33 boxes, approx. 16,500 items) includes portraits and other photographs of individuals related to Duke University, such as presidents, trustees, administrators, faculty, staff, students, alumni, and visitors. The Activities Series (44 boxes, approx. 22,000 items) consists of photographs of University groups and events, including commencements, reunions, athletic teams, academic departments, campus demonstrations, student activities, and other group photographs. The Buildings Series includes scenes of Duke University's West and East campuses, the Trinity College campuses (Durham, N.C. and Randolph County, N.C.), campus facilities, campus architecture, Durham, Randolph County, and other related buildings and locations. The Separated Photographs Series (3 boxes, aprrox. 1,000 items) consists of images separated from other University Archives collections for preservation and access.
Portrait of Lynwood E. Brown, a graduate of Trinity College at Duke University.
Includes a list of the names of the individuals in the image on back of matting. Both copies of the undated print also contain lists of individuals on the back of matting, but note one list contains more names.
Print, de-matted, of baseball team with image of what may be Seeman Printery adhered to back. Name of team members on back of matting.
Largely images of construction of West and East Campuses, including the football stadium. Also includes photographs of commencement, the Duke Marching Band, and May Day festivities.
Four black/white images from a football game in the early 1940's. Two are action shots, one is an image of the audience, focusing on a man (possibly Page's uncle Hugh) and a woman, and one is of a female Duke cheerleader, the Duke mascot, and a young boy on the sideline.
Seven color 35mm slides of the Duke campus and nearby area. Description given by Joel Sandulli.
Photograph taken by Robert (Robin) Blake, T'67. Also included is a typed manuscript by Robin Blake describing the circumstances around the photograph and giving biographical details for both Dick Groat and Dave Sime.
Donated by Arthur S. Gould, class of 1944. Original images date from circa 1930s-1940s, these photographs reproduced circa 2000s.
Photographs donated by Gerret Warner, relative of Frank Warner. Photographs were found in Frank Warner's belongings, but it is unknown if he was the photographer.
Includes photographs of production of Iolanthe (1938), Duke/Tennessee football game (1938), West Campus(1940), Sigma Nu, Gamma Chapter (1940), and other photos of students and places. A number of photographs identify individuals and organizations.
The collection includes files on construction and renovation projects overseen by the Physical Planning Department. One general file contains a 1974 proposal for an East Campus Center for Physical Education and Recreation, written by James A. Ward, University Architect and Director of Physical Planning; as well as three work status reports on multiple campus building projects in 1975-1976. Another file includes a list of completed contracts that were removed from the Physical Planning Department vault in 1974. The remaining files contain contracts, insurance bonds, and some related correspondence between Duke University and construction companies or architects who worked on building and renovation projects around campus. Projects included the installation of a pneumatic tube system in Duke University Medical Center's Clinical Research Building, and the "Phytotron," an experimental plant growth chamber near the Biology building.
This collection consists of publications that feature photographs and drawings of the Trinity College and Duke University campuses along with descriptive text. The publications were sent to prospective students and used in publicity and fundraising. Print 101/2000
Gift of Greg Maletic.
Contains two drafts of a manuscript entitled, The Benign Revolution: An Insider's View of Parapsychology. This was published by Doubleday in 1964 under the title Parapsychology: An insider's view of ESP.
University administrative records, personal papers, manuscripts, photographs, printed matter, memorabilia, and other material created or received by Terry Sanford during his various careers as a lawyer, politician, and President and President Emeritus of Duke University. The bulk of material consists of records from his tenure as President, 1969-1985. A folder list for these records (Series 1). Also included are substantial records on Sanford's 1972 and 1976 campaigns for the Democratic Party nominee for President, as well as personal and political files related to his many interests and activities throughout his political career. Series 2 and Series 4 as well as portions of Series 3 are not fully processed although some content information is available in the series descriptions. [Note: Materials in this collection may use outdated terms such as "mentally retarded" to refer to people with mental disabilities.]
Records of the President of the University, with bulk dates 1969 to 1985. Records from earlier administrations, in particular those of Douglas M. Knight (1963-1969), are present as well. The files consist of correspondence, memoranda, minutes, proposals, reports, clippings, reference material, speeches, and other records.
The Subject files document Sanford's role as President of Duke, and also his continued interest in many fields including education, politics, and the arts.
The records of the Sanford administration record the policies and actions of the University in academic planning, athletics, campus planning and the physical growth of the university, development and alumni affairs, student life, and the University's interaction with Durham and North Carolina during the 1970s and 1980s. Among the more notable academic planning matters documented are the early years of both the Fuqua School of Business and the Institute of Policy Sciences and Public Affairs, now the Terry Sanford Institute of Public Policy. Also included is correspondence from alumni, faculty, and students against the administration's proposal in 1975 to phase out the School of Forestry and Environmental Studies. Correspondents in the area of academic planning include Joel Fleishman, Director of the Institute of Policy Sciences and Public Affairs; Thomas Keller, Dean of the Fuqua School of Business; and John C. McKinney, Dean of the Graduate School, and other officers.
Folders pertaining to the Retrenchment measures taken in 1980-1981 that eliminated the undergraduate Department of Education and the baccalaureate program in Nursing are also part of this series. These steps were recommended to the Board of Trustees in September 1980 by then-Chancellor A. Kenneth Pye in his memorandum, Directions for Progress. The bulk of the material consists of letters and memoranda from Sanford to faculty and alumni of the departments announcing the actions and correspondence from alumni, educators, and school administrators expressing their support of or opposition to the plan.
Continuing the fundraising efforts that began with the Fifth Decade Campaign, 1964-1970, Institutional Advancement files focus primarily on the Epoch Campaign, a three-year campaign that attempted to raise $162 million from 1973-1976. The material concerns the progress of the Epoch Campaign and other fundraising efforts, such as the Loyalty Fund, 1979-1980.
Sanford's commitment to the arts can be seen in the files on the American Musical Theater Center, 1977-1980 and the American Dance Festival, 1977-1985. The recruitment and arrival of the Festival at Duke in 1977 began a long relationship that has continued for over 20 year.
The records also document student life, but to a lesser extent than other topics. Issues related to student activism of the early 1970s are found within Student Unrest files. These records include clippings and a scrapbook documenting the student takeover the Allen Building in February 1969, before Sanford's presidency. Material from May 1970 largely concerns student actions on campus in response to the Kent State shootings. Letters of approval or disapproval from alumni and student parents on these and other topics are included as well. The records also document another aspect of student life that Sanford faced: the use of illegal drugs. In 1971 Sanford rejected a proposal from the Associated Students of Duke University calling for a relaxed stance by the administration on the use of drugs, particularly marijuana.
Student conduct at athletic events is also documented. On January 17, 1984 Uncle Terry Sanford sent An Avuncular Letter to students chiding them for their inappropriate behavior during a home basketball game with the University of Maryland. The file contains the original letter, many newspaper articles detailing the behavior, letters to Sanford from concerned parents and alumni, and Sanford's response to each.
The major change in residential life during Sanford's tenure was the 1972 merger of the Woman's College with Trinity College for Men to create the present Trinity College of Arts and Sciences. While the school had long been co-educational, the merger completed the switch to co-residency. Included are correspondence from alumni, administrators, and other institutions regarding the pros and cons of the merger. There is also some correspondence regarding the future of the Woman's College administrators.
Sanford's interest in all levels of education is found throughout the files as well. During the 1960s and 1970s he served on the Board of Directors of the Learning Institute of North Carolina (LINC), a non-profit agency dedicated to improving education through experimentation and research. The LINC records, dating from 1965-1979, consist of correspondence, minutes, reports, and reference material.
The records also illustrate how national and international issues played out on campus. Among these are investment policies in South Africa, in which students, faculty, and the administration began questioning Duke's support of U.S. businesses with investments in South Africa. Regarding the Panama Canal Treaty (1977-1978), Sanford attempted to put together a panel debate with Jesse Helms, Henry Kissinger, and others participating. Correspondence is included with these two, President Jimmy Carter, and others.
Among the other major issues of the Sanford administration were the Nixon Library Controversy, 1981-1982, (3.5 boxes). These files concern the debate over whether Duke should house Richard Nixon's presidential library. Sanford argued in favor of the library as a valuable archival repository. Letters of support and disapproval from faculty, alumni, and other sources in and out of the University community are included. Correspondence dates from as early as 1971.
In 1981 Duke co-sponsored and Sanford a this public series of speeches and debates by a bipartisan group of political leaders concerned with reforming the process of nominating presidential candidates (Duke University Forum on Presidential Nominations). Co-sponsored by the Woodrow Wilson International Center, the first event was held on 11 May 1981 in Washington, D.C. Speakers and panelists included Robert Dole, Gerald Ford, Vernon E. Jordan, and Robert Strauss.
Soviet-American Track Meet files consist of correspondence, minutes of meetings, committee lists, schedules, and planning for the twelfth annual event held the first week in July 1974. Sanford's continued interests in politics are documented in files on the Democratic Party, 1970-1982. Correspondents include Senators John Glenn and Ted Kennedy. Sanford assisted in founding the Education Commission of the States in 1965/66. Headquartered in Denver, Col., the Commission provides research and advice to assist states and school systems in long-range planning and decision-making.
As Governor, Sanford was instrumental in the founding and early years of the North Carolina School of the Arts in Winston-Salem, N.C. Included is correspondence related to the Sanford Scholarships, a program begun in 1975 awarding four full-tuition scholarships named in his honor. Sanford also served on the Advisory Board of the State Zoo Authority in the early 1970s during the planning of the North Carolina Zoological Park (Asheboro). The files include correspondence regarding proposed site locations.
Among Sanford's correspondents were Walter Cronkite, Doris Duke, James E. Holshouser, Hubert H. Humphrey, James B. Hunt, James G. Martin III, George McGovern, Richard Nixon, and Robert W. Scott
The title of this folder has been changed along with the removal of the name for the National Association for Retarded Children due to the use of no longer accepted terms to refer to children with mental disabilities. Note that materials in this folder may contain such outdated language.
Speeches and statements of Terry Sanford during his tenure as Duke President. The records include commencement addresses at Duke and other institutions, and speeches at faculty meetings, ceremonies, and other functions. One box of chronological letters from 1970-1975 includes copies of The President's Letter, a periodic message from Sanford to the Duke community concerning events of concern to the university. Included among these is a May 20, 1975 letter informing the university of his upcoming announcement to run for the Democratic Party's nomination for President of the United States. Other President's Letters include correspondence to faculty and incoming freshmen.
Series consists of items collected during the inauguration of President Terry Sanford 18 October 1970 including a planning manual, programs, speeches, flyers, news clippings, greetings from other colleges and universities, a guest book, and color photographs.
This series consists of administrative records, along with some personal papers. The bulk of material runs from 1992-1997 and consists of computer disks, correspondence, faxes, journals, mailing lists, memoranda, photographs, speeches, transcripts, website printouts, writings, clippings and other printed matter. The files are organized into subject files, correspondence (1990-1998), and writings.
The records also include files on organizations to which Sanford belonged or boards on which he served. Included among these: Methodist College, Fayetteville, N.C. (Trustee); North Carolina Museum of Art (chaired Board of Trustees); Ovation, Inc. - a Fine Arts Network (Board of Directors); and the Sarah W. Stedman Center for Nutritional Studies (Board of Advisors). Some files continue and supplement material found in other series: American Dance Festival; Education Commission of the States; and Outward Bound.
Files are included on courses Sanford taught within the Public Policy Studies Department at Duke from 1993-1997, most notably a course titled "Creativity in State Government". Syllabi, handouts, lists of students, and some correspondence are included. These files contain student identifiable data, and are subject to federal privacy legislation.
The records show Sanford's continued interest in and opinions on various issues, including political ones. Examples include the Nicaraguan Canal project, poverty, and racism. Within the Racism file is a 1997 memo from Sanford to John Hope Franklin, Professor Emeritus of History at Duke University and chair of President Clinton's National Advisory Panel on Race, outlining his plans to begin an association to help promote improved race relations. Sanford mentioned National Good Neighbor Council as a possible title.
Sanford's day-to-day activities during the 1990s are documented throughout these files. Folders labeled Journal contain loose-leaf paper with daily appointments and schedules detailing meetings, dinners, travel plans, and leisure activities. Often, Sanford would write notes on the particular meeting/event (wrote before and/or after). In 1993 Sanford kept a bound journal for a week in February. Other files documenting Sanford's daily activities include folders of telephone messages and two rolodexes of addresses and business cards.
Other significant records include Sanford's Cyber Bookstore project. This was intended to create a means of purchasing publications over the World Wide Web similar to the Amazon.com. There are also reports, drafts, and proposals from the Ethics Review Commission of the United States Senate, 1993-1994, and files on his support for the Airborne and Special Operations Museum project in Fayetteville, N.C.
Correspondents include President Bill Clinton, to whom Sanford voiced his opinion or expressed his support; and Howard Covington, Sanford's biographer. Sanford sent Covington thoughts or remembrances that he felt should be included in the biography, or he would write in response to Covington's questions. Among the recollections include a detailed account of Sanford's decision to endorse John F. Kennedy's presidential campaign.
Two of the three boxes of writings consist of hand-written and typed drafts, research notes, a synopsis, and bibliographical material for Sanford's unfinished historical novel, Top of the World. Sanford worked on the novel from 1994-1998 and drafts of the first six chapters at the time of his death are included. According to an article in the Raleigh News and Observer (Jan. 10, 1994, p.3-A), Sanford did not think it would be completed until the 21st century. The third box contains drafts, notes, and additional material on three Sanford manuscripts. They include the unfinished works The Lasting Lyndon (1991) on the Lyndon B. Johnson administration, and Out of the Valley, (1975), surveying public policies; Sanford referred to the latter work as "an autobiographical political platform". The file also includes the manuscript of Outlive Your Enemies: (Commack, N.Y.: Nova Sciences Publishers, 1996), Sanford's study on aging and growing old gracefully.
A final box labeled Miscellaneous contains primarily Democratic Party-related material from the 1980s and a note to incorporate them into the records.
The personal and political papers of Terry Sanford consist of correspondence, memoranda, manuscripts, newspaper clippings, reference material, printed matter, audiotapes, audiocassettes, videocassettes, and a scrapbook that document his personal and public life. Also present are correspondence, memoranda, clippings, speeches, statements, drafts, press releases, and printed matter documenting Terry Sanford's campaigns for the Democratic nomination for President in 1972 and 1976, including a large set of film recordings used for the 1972 campaign created by Drew Associates. Records documenting Sanford's study of the future role of state governments in society and in the federal system are present as is material concerning the Legislative Library Project. Sanford's work with the Democratic Charter Commission is also included.
The personal and political papers of Terry Sanford consist of correspondence, memoranda, manuscripts, newspaper clippings, reference material, printed matter, audiotapes, audiocassettes, videocassettes, and a scrapbook. The bulk were acquired from Sanford's house in Durham, N.C., and he apparently kept them close by for reference purposes for much of his career. Some folders appear to have been removed from his records as Duke President.
The papers primarily contain the files of organizations to which Sanford belonged or boards on which he served. These included the Foreign Study League (advisory council); Citizens Committee for Government Reorganization (co-chairman); the National Council on Crime and Delinquency (chaired N.C. Committee); the National Municipal League/Citizens' Forum on Self Government (multiple offices including President); the National Public Affairs Center for Television (Board of Directors); the National Recreation and Park Association; National Urban League; Outward Bound; Shaw University (Trustee); the Soul City project; Southern Regional Growth Board; Robert Taft Institute of Government (Trustee); Children's Television Workshop; and Urban America, Inc. (Trustee).
Also included are records from Sanford's political career and interests. Among these are records from his tenure as N.C. Governor, including files on race relations, reports, and correspondence; the 1960 Gubernatorial campaign; speeches and drafts; clippings and printed material; surveys of political climate and polls; the 1954 Senatorial Campaign (campaign manager for W. Kerr Scott); his support of Fritz Hollings' 1983-1984 Presidential Nomination; and correspondence with the N.C. Young Democrats, 1965-1968. Of particular note is a 1977 confidential memo that Sanford typed for his records recounting President Carter's request that Sanford accept the position of Ambassador to France. Other correspondents include Lyndon B. Johnson and John F. Kennedy.
Correspondence, memoranda, clippings, film, speeches, statements, drafts, press releases, and printed matter documenting Terry Sanford's campaigns for the Democratic nomination for President in 1972. The 1972 Campaign records include subjects and correspondents such as Civil Rights, Busing, the Democratic National Convention, Hubert Humphrey, Edmund Muskie, Richard Nixon, and George Wallace. Position files consist of speeches and statements illustrating Sanford's opinions on such issues as education, foreign policy, and tax reform. State files include correspondence, clippings, and information about campaigning in those states.
This series contains the original film and sound recordings created by Drew Associates, a documentary film company, for campaign advertisements for Terry Sanford's 1972 Presidential campaign. Some notes on the exact format, contents, and codes to match motion picture and sound are included. Recordings include original raw footage as well as edited versions. The series also includes two videos created by Ralph Johnson Associates.
The majority of the reels in this series were re-wound onto new reel cores for preservation during processing in 2017; labelings and marking have been recorded as the item's title but no attempt at arranging or matching picture to sound or varying versions has yet been made.
Correspondence, memoranda, clippings, film, speeches, statements, drafts, press releases, and printed matter documenting Terry Sanford's campaigns for the Democratic nomination for President in 1976. Records contain files documenting the campaign in individual states, including detailed county-bycounty files for North Carolina, and within these files are updates on the campaign, letters of support, suggestions by constituents, and newspaper clippings. Other records of note include his May 1975 announcement to begin the campaign and his withdrawal in January 1976, as well as files related to Citizen Assmelbies, grass-roots support organizations for Sanford's campaign.
Duke University sponsored a grant from the Carnegie Corporation and the Ford Foundation for a study of the future role of state governments in society and in the federal system (1965-1967). Terry Sanford directed this project. Out of his research came his book, Storm over the States (New York: McGraw-Hill, 1967), which concerns the individual citizen's active involvement in government.
Correspondence, memoranda, minutes, reports, printed matter and other material concerning the Legislative Library Project of Legis 50 / The Center for Legislative Improvement.
Formed in 1966 as the Citizens Conference on State Legislatures, the organization examined state legislatures and prepared strategies to enhance their effectiveness. Terry Sanford served on the Board of Trustees in the late 1960s and later as an honorary Board member. Initiated in 1976, the Library Project attempted to develop a series of publications addressing the history and operation of American State governments in order to raise public interest in legislative reform. Sanford chaired the project committee and was named editor-in-chief of the series. Originally, Duke University Press was to play a major role in the publication. The Library Project struggled to get off the ground due to a number of factors including decisions on authors and publication, and financial concerns. The project folded in 1980 as Legis 50 filed for bankruptcy.
Earlier material in these records, 1966-1975, consists of correspondence, memoranda, agendas, minutes, and annual reports while Sanford served on the Board of Trustees. Material from 1976-1980 concerns the Library Project and includes grant proposals and correspondence with Legis 50 staff and potential authors. Also included is a memo for the record concerning the content and importance of the files.
Correspondence, memoranda, minutes, drafts, proposals, printed matter, questionnaires, financial material, films, audiocassettes, and audiotapes concerning the Democratic Charter Commission, which Terry Sanford chaired. The Commission was established by the 1972 Democratic Convention to draft a charter for the Democratic Party, the first in the party's history. The Charter established national structures and guidelines for the party on issues such as leadership, membership, and education. It was approved during the midterm convention of December 1974 and went into effect in 1980.
The records, though largely unorganized, document Sanford and the Commission's efforts from 1972-1974. Includes folders on individual states, which often contain lists of delegates and material on individual state conferences or hearings (including agendas, discussions, and summaries of proceedings) held to discuss the proposed Charter. Sanford usually attended these state conferences and delivered the opening and/or closing remarks. Other material consists of Commission member lists, questionnaires on party structure and charter proposals, and Commission-related newspaper clippings. The correspondence is not foldered together, but spread throughout the records. Correspondents include President Jimmy Carter, then Governor of Georgia; Robert Strauss, Chairman of the Democratic National Committee; members of the Commission; and Democratic members of Congress.
Included among the approximately 20 original reel to reel films and audiotapes and 20 audiocassettes are session recordings from Commission conferences (in Colorado, Massachusetts, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Texas, Washington D.C., and Wisconsin); and interviews with members of the Commission for a proposed public relations project in 1974 (not completed). Most films and cassettes are labeled and in fair condition.
The photographs and negatives span Sanford's career. Photographs are arranged and foldered by subject, though some subjects are vague (people and political for example). Others include: Duke University Activities, Functions; 1972 Presidential Campaign; FBI; Gubernatorial Years; and University of North Carolina Law School. Among the individuals: Jimmy Carter, Andy Griffith, J. Edgar Hoover, Lyndon B. Johnson, John F. Kennedy, Soviet Premier Kosygin, Carl Sandburg, Strom Thurmond, Harry S. Truman, John Wayne, and Sanford's family and friends. For additional photographs see the general photograph collection in the Duke University Archives.
The printed matter includes newspaper articles written during his tenure as President of Duke University. A majority of the articles are from the Durham newspapers and the Duke student newspaper, The Chronicle. The articles are poorly organized, though hint at a chronological arrangement. The document box contains ready reference files, again focusing primarily on his tenure at Duke. This includes copies of speeches, clippings on his inauguration, and programs for a tribute ceremony to Sanford in 1985. Other files include the Democratic Charter Commission, U.S. Senate, and other political clippings.
Could only find one box of photographic materials in January 2007.
Series contains various artifacts including framed photos, cartoons (Nixon Library cartoon by Dwane Powell, News and Observer, August 16, 1981 Box 229) scrapbooks, photographs, honorary degrees, greetings from other colleges and universities, citations, campaign posters, and President Sanford's doctoral robe and sports jacket.
The framed photos include:
Dinner honoring Prof. Joseph J. Spengler, Jan. 1972
The Eastward Duke University Marine Lab, 1979
Great Wall of China
Duke University-Gettysburg Nestorian Expedition in Southeast Turkey, June 1982
This series includes correspondence, diaries, audiotapes, transcript, printed materials, and other personal papers acquired by the authors of Terry Sanford: Politics, Progress, and Outrageous Ambitions (Durham: DU Press, 1999) from Terry Sanford. Subjects include youth, military service and early political career, presidential nomination campaign papers, transcripts of interviews Sanford conducted with his mother, President's appointment book, transcripts of speeches at roasts, Covington-Ellis interviews with Sanford, as well as his friends and acquaintances.
Many of these materials may have come from and are related to other series in this collection. Some materials are copies of items held by the Duke University Archives and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill's Special Collections.
Collection includes correspondence, reports, course syllabi, printed matter, drafts, research notes, manuscripts, lectures, photographs, clippings, maps, and other papers.
The arrangement of the collection is by accession dates. These additions follow the order given in the collection file and are not presented in chronological order.
The 1981 Additions (A81-60) include extensive correspondence, numerous drafts and published articles and reviews, photocopies of primary sources, some research notes, and administrative papers dealing with the Duke University History Dept. The chief subjects include Canadian military affairs, general military history, military education, and Canadian Studies as a historical subdiscipline. There is a folder list for this addition that is part of the collection file.
The 1980 Additions includes printed material, correspondence, studies, reports, articles, drafts, proofs, outlines, lectures, syllabi, clippings, photos, maps, and other papers. Major subjects include Canadian history, especially military history and current military and defense concerns. The first major portion of this Addition is made up of correspondence about Preston's own research and writings of other scholars. Other materials include Preston's research notes; photocopies and typed copies of historical documents; and guides to historical collections. There are also administrative files about the History Dept. at Duke, and the Canadian Studies Program. There is a small amount of material about the alumni of the Royal Military College in Canada, where Preston taught for a number of years. The second major portion of this Addition focuses on various aspects of modern Canadian defense and external security, Canada and NATO, relations with the British Commonwealth, and Canadian domestic affairs.
Includes extensive correspondence, numerous drafts and published articles and reviews, photocopies of primary sources, some research notes, and administrative papers dealing with the Duke University History Dept. The chief subjects include Canadian military affairs, general military history, military education, and Canadian Studies as a historical subdiscipline.
Contains materials on appointments, commonwealth studies, university policies, graduate students, the History Department, letters of recommendation, the military history program at Duke, oral examinations, retirement, Shell fellowships, testimonials, the University Centers for Rational Alternatives, visitors, and grant proposals.
There are a small number of letters in the folder entitled Testimonials that are dated before 1965 and would pre-date Preston's arrival at Duke University.
Includes correspondence, newsletters, brochures, and printed material from historical societies and other organizations to which Preston belonged.
Includes materials on conferences, seminars, lectures, proposals, reports, syllabi, and other printed material about the Duke Canadian Studies program and other non-Duke programs.
Includes printed material, speeches, correspondence, and brochures.
Correspondence is arranged alphabetically by last name.
Correspondence is arranged alphabetically by last name.
Includes correspondence concerning Preston's ideas, drafts, and printed material used to write speeches and articles for publication. Correspondence is arranged alphabetically by title of publication or by topic. Some folders include manuscripts.
Includes reviews by Preston or written about Preston's work (1961-1980), historical enquiries (1956-1976), lectures (1952-1979), research notes and printed material (1948-1976).
Includes research notes, reports, photocopies, indices, lists, bibliographies, articles, maps, manuscripts, and correspondence (ca. 1964-1976).
Preston researched the War of 1812, with the thought of writing a book on this topic for the Macmillan Wars of the United States series. Includes two boxes of notecards detailing Preston's bibliographical references, drafts, photocopies, correspondence, and contract.
Includes drafts of papers, articles, and reviews written by Preston. Some are unpublished.
Includes brochures, training manuals, correspondence, research notes, reports and meeting agendas.
Includes notes, maps, course outlines, lectures, and printed material about Gettysburg, Chancellorsville, the U.S. Civil War, the Battle of El Alamein, and other battles and aspects of military history.
Includes printed material, maps, photograph of the Royal Military College, correspondence, and other materials.
Includes printed material, correspondence, studies, reports, articles, drafts, proofs, outlines, lectures, syllabi, clippings, photos, maps, and other papers. Major subjects include Canadian history, especially military history and current military and defense concerns. The first major portion of this Addition is made up of correspondence about Preston's own research and writings of other scholars. Other materials include Preston's research notes; photocopies and typed copies of historical documents; and guides to historical collections. There are also administrative files about the History Dept. at Duke, and the Canadian Studies Program. There is a small amount of material about the alumni of the Royal Military College in Canada, where Preston taught for a number of years. The second major portion of this Addition focuses on various aspects of modern Canadian defense and external security, Canada and NATO, relations with the British Commonwealth, and Canadian domestic affairs.
Of special interest is a file containing clippings and correspondence about an anti-American article which appeared in a Canadian newspaper.
Includes scholarly papers, reports, correspondence, news articles, notes, and government publications.
Includes notes, manuscripts, photographs, correspondence, clippings, and reports on a wide variety of topics that concern Canadian military history, politics, nationalism, Sir Ferdinando Gorges, and others. Of special interest is a file containing clippings and correspondence about an anti-American article which appeared in a Canadian newspaper.
Includes notes and course syllabi for courses taught by Preston.
Includes information about individual speakers invited by Preston to speak on campus.
Includes correspondence, newsletters, notes, scholarly papers, articles from the Army Quarterly and the Canadian Defense Quarterly, and copies of maps.
Includes mostly papers on Preston's sabbatical projects and travels for a study of the teachings of Canadian history in U.S. schools. Also includes grant applications, reviews, and evaluations.
Includes mostly Canada-related correspondence, Canadian Studies at Duke, and Canadian Studies in the U.S. Contains one folder on the speaker, Frances Halpenny, who spoke at the 1985 Friends of the Library dinner.
Includes mostly correspondence and drafts of articles concerning Canadian military history and modern defense matters.
Includes correspondence, reprints, notes, forms, and other printed material concerning the Canadian Studies program at Duke and at other schools.
Includes correspondence about faculty appointments and copies of the Duke University Letters, 1981-1982, a publication issued from the Office of the President.
Includes correspondence and printed material about appointments at Duke, grant and job applications, job offers, sabbaticals, salary, and retirement.
Includes correspondence and printed matter about workshops and conferences; Duke Canadian and Quebec Studies; materials for Canadian Studies in the U.S.; the N.C. Social Studies Council; and President Carter's Commission on Foreign Language and International Studies.
Contains survey materials on Canadian studies in the U.S. published as The Squat Pyramid, in 1980, by the Center for International Studies at Duke. Includes correspondence, itineraries, schedules, questionnaires, notes, and evaluations concerning visits to college campuses to survey Canadian Studies programs in the U.S., and copies of Canadian Embassy files on a Canadian Studies survey conducted in the U.S. in 1976.
The Brantley York Records and Papers include correspondence, clippings, a grade book, certificates, manuscripts, and published works. Modern materials were added to the collection; these include York family genealogical information, as well as clippings about York and his activities. Preservation photocopies of all deteriorating clippings have been made for patron use.
The first series, Brantley York papers, includes certificates and other documents, a small amount of correspondence, and a grade book. The second series, Writings, features manuscript drafts and a published copy of York's autobiography, as well as copies of three of his instructional texts. The final series contains both contemporary and modern clippings about Brantley York's life, work, and family members. Also included in this series is a York family genealogy.
Includes two postcards and one letter written by Bascom A. York, son of Brantley York. Bascom York (1858-1958) was a Methodist minister in N.C.
This collection includes approximately 100 survey plats of Duke University properties prior to the construction on East Campus and West Campus from the years 1925-1926. Some plats represent part of what is now Duke Forest. The plats show details of the topography and terrain, roads and streets, bodies of water, trees and buildings. A key map is included. On the reverse side of some plats, it is indicated that the surveys were used by A. C. Lee, Chief Engineer of the Duke Construction Company and the plats may have been produced by the Atlantic Realty Company. Also included are plats representing the Duke Homestead from 1932 that were possibly drawn by V.A. Stewman. Topics include Duke Construction Company, East Campus, West Campus, Duke Forest and the Duke Homestead.
Drawings are pen and pencil on paper mounted to cloth, measuring approximately 23"x30", organized according to geographic locations The scale is approximately 50 feet to the inch.
The individual plats can be assembled to show all of East and West Campuses, and there is a key which shows how the plats fit together. On the key, plats are organized by section number. Likewise, plats listed below are grouped by section.
Section 1
Section 2
Section 3
Section 4.
Section 5.
This area not located on map key.
Section 6.
The Undergraduate Publications Board Reference Collection includes a list of Pub Board publications (past and present) a general history of the organization, as well as clippings, histories, lists of editors, flyers, and other materials relating to individual publications. Folders are also present for the Bassett Fund and the Blackburn Literary Festival. The Bassett Fund finances public lectures, defrays honoraria for the Blackburn Literary Festival, and supplements new undergraduate publications. The Blackburn Literary Festival honors the spirit of sharing and love of literature embodied by Professor William Blackburn.
The Rainbow Triangle Oral History Collection includes original oral history recordings, transcripts, biographical information on narrators, newsclippings, correspondence, and research materials. Oral history interviews are primarily sound recordings, covering a wide range of topics including the narrators' early lives, families and family relationships, education, social life, experience of their own sexual identity, experience in or work with the LGBT community (in the Triangle and elsewhere), activism, working lives, romantic partners, professional activities, and many other topics. Original recordings are primarily on audiocassette tapes. About half of the oral histories also include printed transcripts. A few oral histories also include additional biographical information about the narrator, much of it included on an information sheet created by the Rainbow Triangle project, but sometimes also including additional material such as news articles, correspondence, flyers, and other items. Also included are materials related to the planning and development of the project, including correspondence, drafts, notes, and background research into LGBT life in the Triangle and oral history as a documentary form, as well as several years worth of the Pink Triangle issue of the local Independent Weekly.
This series includes original recordings of oral history interviews with narrators in the Rainbow Triangle Project. The majority of recordings are on audiocassette tapes, with a few video recordings on tapes. About half of the interviews include a printed transcript, some of which are incomplete; these transcripts were generally created by the interviewer. Many interviews also include completed biographical information sheets, created by the Project and completed by the narrator around the time of the interview. These forms may include information on the narrator's early life, education, work, civic activities, and other biographical topics. Some files also include additional materials, including correspondence, news articles, flyers, and publications. Many of these interviews were conducted by Duke students as part of the Duke undergraduate class American Communities: Gender, Sexuality, and Oral History in 2000 and 2004; two of the files include papers written by the student interviewers about the narrators with whom they worked.
Art photographs (nudes).
This interviewee elected to use a pseudonym.
This interviewee elected to use a pseudonym.
This interviewee elected to use a pseudonym.
This series includes materials related to the planning, development, and implementation of the Rainbow Triangle Oral History project by staff and volunteers at the Duke Center for LGBT Life. Included is correspondence between Ian Lekus and others on planning the mission of the project, forms to be used, and how the collected interviews would be used, preserved, and made accessible to the wider community, among other topics.
This series includes newspapers featuring participants in the Rainbow Triangle Project or relating to LGBT life in the Triangle region. Several newspapers include stories based on interviews with Rainbow Triangle narrators conducted by Ian Lekus and Patrick Toal. Most issues of the Independent Weekly included in this series are Pink Triangle issues focusing on the LGBT community and related issues in the region.
Vol. 20, No. 22
Pink Triangle issues. July 1996 is incomplete.
Pink Triangle issues.
Pink Triangle issues.
Pink Triangle issues.
Pink Triangle issues.
Vol. 22, Issue 1
Vol. 22, Issue 3
This collection contains material created and accumulated by the Religious Council and range in date from 1938-1971. A majority dates from 1950 to 1965. The collection is divided into two series: Administrative Records and Subject Files. The administrative records contain correspondence, annual reports, financial papers, minutes of the executive council, and founding constitution and by-laws. Subject files include the materials accumulated by the Special Observance Committee, which include materials relating to various programs organized by the committee: correspondence, minutes, reports, and printed materials; Religious Emphasis Week, 1943-1955; outreach programs with Edgemont Community Center: reports, correspondence, financial papers, and the Living & Learning Project; and papers relating to the United Christian Council.
Annual reports, correspondence, financial papers, founding documents, executice council minutes, and miscellaneous material.
Various committees, programs, community outreach efforts, religious events and services, and national Christian organizations
Reports, subject files, housing proposals, policy statements, regulations, newspaper clippings, flyers, brochures, announcements, handbooks and guides for resident advisors, dormitory floor plans, correspondence, memoranda and chronologies of changes in residential life, 1920s-1990s. Major subjects include residential planning and programming, on- and off-campus housing, housing for graduate and professional students and married students, the administration of residential life, federations and other housing arrangements, the work of resident advisors and faculty-in-residence, experimental living-learning arrangements, and non-Greek houses and associations. Groups represented include Association of Independent Houses, the Council of Federation Presidents, the West Campus Community Council, and various committees.
Contains material pertaining to the operation of the Committee and includes correspondence; lists of donors and the amounts of their contributions; financial papers that include deposit slips, invoices, and bank statements; and a file on Joseph Wallace King, the artist commissioned to execute the portrait, that consists of newspaper articles, a color catalogue, and a letter from King describing his experience in the White House. The material range in date from 1968-1974.
Collection includes correspondence, minutes, testimony, reports, printed materials, reports from other institutions, student course evaluations and questionnaires, notes, and other materials related to the Committee's investigations during 1970-1971. One of the Committee's major endeavors was a survey of students who were enrolled or had previously been enrolled in ROTC courses. These student evaluations make up approximately half of the collection.
Contains material pertaining to the activities of the South Africa Policy Implementation Committee. The collection contains rosters, minutes, and reports of the Committee as well as correspondence and memoranda concerning Duke's policy toward and financial relationships with corporations with operations in South Africa during apartheid. Correspondence between University President H. Keith H. Brodie and representatives of corporations such as International Business Machines, Mcgraw-Hill, Inc., Texaco, Inc., American Express Company, R.J. Reynolds/Nabisco, Inc., and Cocoa-Cola Company documents corporate reaction to Duke's decision to divest. Memoranda, minutes, reports, and rosters of the Committee on Social Implications of Duke Stock are also present.
Throughout the collection are clippings and other printed material addressing social, political, and economic conditions in South Africa, policies adopted by other universities and colleges toward South Africa, and reports and studies relating to the feasibility, appropriateness, and potential consequences of divestment.
The records which are in rough chronological order contain correspondence, telegrams, student rosters, financial records, reports, printed matter and other materials pertaining to the operations of the school. Subjects include curriculum planning, enrollment estimates, meetings of the Board, faculty selection and salaries, and the school's finances. The major correspondents are Taylor B. Attmore and Holland Holton.
Contains materials of the Southeastern Institute of Medieval and Renaissance Studies and the Duke University Center for Medieval and Renaissance Studies. Materials mostly concern session planning and relations with the Cooperative Program in the Humanities. Types of materials include correspondence, grant proposals, budgets, invitations, rosters, announcements, minutes, local publications, and some conference papers. Materials range in date from 1965 to 1981.
This collection contains the records of SHARE, an experimental co-educational student living organization housed in Wilson House, Alspaugh House and Epworth Inn on Duke University's East Campus. Types of materials include correspondence, minutes, reports, evaluations, financial materials, applications, plaques, a videotape, short writings, newsletters, literary magazines, notes, photographs, and clippings. Materials range in date from 1968 to ongoing. Contains restricted materials.
Scrapbook contains material pertaining to the 1930-1931 and 1931-1932 seasons of the Duke University basketball team. Material present include clippings, a May 1931 issue of The Chronicle, and a December 1931 issue of Baloo, the student publication of the University of Baltimore that contains articles on the University's upcoming contest with Duke.
The Mel Shimm papers include materials from Mel Shimm's time as a faculty member at Duke Law School. Included are class materials such as exams and readings, correspondence, committee materials, and other materials.
The collection includes four 3-ring binders kept by Professor Markman that include his lecture notes and material for two of his courses: Latin American Art [Colonial Period] and Pre-Columbian Art and Archaeology [Mesoamerica]. There is also a folder that contains correspondence. The collection ranges in date from 1952-1986.
Contains materials relating to the Duke University chapter of Sigma Xi's petition for establishment, membership nominations, minutes, programs, conference notes, lecture advertisements, correspondence, grant applications and awards materials, and printed material. Materials range in date from 1930-1995.
Contains some correspondence and reports used to support the petition for a local chapter of Sigma Xi. Initiation rites include vows taken and the general order of initiation ceremonies. The membership roster has the most complete information about early activity in the chapter.
Contains membership nomination forms. New members are nominated and supported by established colleagues. These forms show the diversity in applicants and research areas of Sigma Xi members affiliated with Duke University. Ordered by date. Some are further ordered alphabetically.
Contains two bound volumes of administration notes, some typed meeting notes and annual reports. The meeting notes from 1933 also contain information about the chapter's establishment. Ordered by date.
Contains notes and fliers for lectures. Some lectures were part of annual initiation meetings. See also initiations for more lecture and speaker materials. Ordered by date.
Contains correspondence between members of the Duke University chapter, potential members, and the Sigma Xi national headquarters. Correspondence with the North Carolina Academy of Science is mostly regarding an annual donation and the relationship between the NCAS and the chapter. Ordered by date.
Contains letters of application and some correspondence regarding grants and prizes for travel, research, or general classroom support. Ordered by date.
Contains newsletters produced by the national headquarters, conference proceedings of national meetings, instructions on initiating a lecture program, a history of the Duke chapter, the results of a study of chapters' financial status, and clippings. Ordered by date.
Contains correspondence relating to Charles Holt Carroll (1800-1890) whose Organization of Debt into Currency and Other Papers Simmons edited and for which Simmons wrote an introduction. Includes correspondence with William Volker Fund of Burlingame, CA regarding the publication costs of Carroll's manuscript. Also includes the manuscript of Simmons's edition of Carroll's writings; the title page, table of contents, index and introduction are in typescript, and the rest consists of Photostats of printed copies. Collection also includes a letter from John Maynard Keynes to Simmons, thanking him for his article "Mr. Keynes' Control Scheme." The original of this letter was transferred to the signatures collection. Items were foldered for processing.
Collection includes correspondence, reprints, manuscripts, notes, microfilms, and other published materials related to Smith's professional career as an educator and economist. Much of the material is in Spanish, reflecting his activities and research interests in Latin American economic history and development, and the history of Hispanic economic thought. Other matters treated in the files concern the Dan River Textile Mills in Danville, Virginia; Smith's work as a government consultant and as a teacher of economics in South America and Latin America; and affairs of the Department of Economics and Business Administration. There is some material related to the courses he taught and personal affairs and writings.
This collection contains student research papers, course syllabi, memoranda, newspaper clippings, documentation from the Sociology Majors Union, as well as other various departmental documents.
Materials in this collection primarily relate to the research of the Duke University Academic Council's Subcommittee on Library Relations, which was formed in September 1981 as part of a faculty initiative to study the potential impact of locating the Richard Nixon Presidential Library on the university campus. Materials also include research of the Academic Council's Subcommittee on Governance, formed at the same time, which was to examine the authority of the university president and the faculty's role in making decisions at the university.
The materials include correspondence from Duke President Terry Sanford, faculty, and trustees; press clippings; minutes of Academic Council meetings between August-November 1981; research, drafts, and the final report from the Library Subcommittee; and research and reports related to the Governance Subcommittee. The collection also contains documents regarding the Faculty Compensation Committee and some press coverage of the opening of the Richard Nixon Library and Museum in Yorba Linda, California, in 1990.
Contains correspondence, research, and drafts leading up to the Subcommittee on Library Relations' report to the Academic Council about the potential impact of having the Nixon Library on Duke's campus. Also includes some news clippings about the Nixon Library controversy.
Contains correspondence; research relating to the Library Subcommittee and the Governance Subcommittee; minutes of Academic Council meetings; a chronology of the proposal to house the Nixon Library at Duke; and the subcommittees' reports to the Academic Council. Also includes some news clippings about the Nixon Library controversy.
Contains news clippings related to the opening of the Richard Nixon Library and Museum in Yorba Linda, California, in 1990.
Contains memos, agendas, correspondence and other papers relating to the business of the Faculty Compensation Committee.
The Division of Student Life Reference Collection was compiled from a variety of sources by the University Archives for use in reference and research. It includes an administrative history of the Division of Student Affairs, East Campus enhancement reports; Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual Task Force reports; and other committee reports regarding Greek life and student affairs. Contains various department newsletters, manuals, directories, and publications. Also includes materials related to the Center for Sexual and Gender Diversity and career planning.
Publications contain articles about the Center for Sexual and Gender Diversity. Includes Duke Magazine, March-April 2008; GIST magazine, Spring 2009, Vol. 3, issue 1; and Divinity, Fall 2016.
The Students for Choice Records contains flyers and other event materials, organizational notes, educational literature, and clippings.
The student photograph is one scrapbook consisting of 22 pages with a total of 100 black and white photographs. The photographs include images of students and buildings at Duke University, especially the Duke Chapel; groups and families, including groups of children; crop fields in North Carolina; beaches and monuments in Virginia including Virginia Beach; Niagara Falls; and several men sunbathing in underwear or posing nude. Many of the photographs have captions identifying people or groups by name, sometimes with first and last names, and/or giving locations. The photographer or creator of the scrapbook is depicted in several photographs but not identified by name; his identity is unknown.
The collection includes correspondence and contracts related to baseball and basketball games played by Trinity College teams from 1912-1918. There is also a folder of correspondence regarding an 1888 football game. The correspondence and contracts give insight into the business-end of college athletics regarding game schedules, location, and fees. There are some Trinity-produced contracts with the heading "Trinity College Athletic Association" as well as contracts with the heading "Trinity College Athletic Council." The collection dates from 1912-1937.
Stephen Tell is a Duke alum hired by groups to create recordings of performing arts events. His collection includes video recordings of such events at Duke from 1987-2001, mostly of Hoof'n'Horn productions but it also includes performances by the Dept. of Theater Studies. Formats include VHS, SVHS, Umatic, and DVD. The collection contains files of clippings, reports, publications, flyers, and other material concerning the University's relationships with, impact on, and service to the city and county, and the region. The bulk dates are 1965 to 1995. Major topics include education, financial matters (including taxation), transportation, and student service to the community through organizations such as Kazi Ya Sanna (work of art in Swahili, 1997) and CHANCE (Concern and Help for the Advancement of Needy Children through Education, 1987). Major programs covered include the Duke-Durham Neighborhood Partnership and the Education Improvement Program, a project funded by the Ford Foundation to assist Durham schools. Durham neighborhoods figuring prominently in the material include Edgemont, Walltown, and Trinity Park. Notable items include an 1894 statement titled Relations of College and Community;The Third Side of the Triangle: Duke University's Interaction with the Community and Region, a 1969 report about the University's public services; and campus publications such as The Duke Community Reporter.
This collection contains correspondence, reference material, and notes on the local, state, and national organizations Richard L. Tuthill belonged to and/or interacted with, along with material concerning his non-Registrar-related activities at Duke University. These papers were separated from the records of the Office of the Registrar. For further information on Tuthill and his duties as Registrar, please see that collection. The bulk of this material centers on geography and education. Included are folders from the Association of American Geographers and the 1955 Conference on Teaching the Social Studies. Tuthill appears to have shown particular interest in the value of television as an educational tool. The collection ranges in date from 1946-1968.
Records include bylaws, minutes, correspondence, memoranda, rosters, reports, and other records of the Undergraduate Faculty Council of Arts and Sciences at Duke University. The Program II files contain some identifiable student records and are regulated by FERPA. The records also contains materials from a prior body, the Undergraduate Faculty Council, which concern ongoing matters.
Collection includes minutes, memoranda, correspondence, and questionnaires, reports of standing and ad hoc committees, and other papers pertaining to faculty oversight of undergraduate education. The bulk of the material consists of the records of the Subcommittee on Curriculum, a part of the Committee on Undergraduate Instruction. The Subcommittee's records feature the Krueger report, "Varieties of Learning Experience (1968), which led to the substantial changes in the undergraduate courses of study known as the "new curriculum." These files include results of a survey of faculty members and freshmen participating in small group learning experiences. The other major curriculum study is the Parker report (1960).
The Program II files contain material from the period after 1971, when the Undergraduate Faculty Council of Arts and Sciences was formed. Records of the Supervisory Committee for the Faculty Advisory System include scattered minutes of the committee, memoranda, correspondence, and reports, as well as handbooks for faculty advisers from 1952 to 1964. A number of ad hoc and superseded committees' files are also in the collection.
The Executive Committee series contains agendas, correspondence, minutes, petitions, rosters, and lists of the standing committees of the Executive Committee of the Undergraduate Faculty Council. Topics include the reorganization of the faculty, committee appointments, and petitions to suspend classes for the 1961 Cotton Bowl.
This series contains correspondence of the Advisory Committee on Committees of the Undergraduate Faculty Council. Topics include bylaws, student participation, and committee appointments.
This series includes agendas, correspondence, course approvals, minutes, and proceedings of minutes of the Committee on Courses of Instruction of the Undergraduate Faculty Council. Topics include the approval of proposals for new courses, programs, and professors.
This series contains correspondence, minutes, and reports of the Committee on the Organization of the Undergraduate Faculty Council. Documents include a detailed report on the organization and the functions of the Undergraduate Faculty Council.
This series contains correspondence between educators at Duke and other institutions such as Vanderbilt and Stanford, minutes, program brochures, reports, and student records of the Committee on the Study Abroad of the Undergraduate Faculty Council. This series also contains one photograph, which is housed in a folder labeled "miscellaneous." Topics include program designs, descriptions of summer study programs, academic qualification of students, and recommendations.
This series contains correspondence, newspaper clipping, notes, proposals, publications, and reports of the Committee on Undergraduate Instruction of the Undergraduate Faculty Council. Topics include curriculum proposals, committee appointments, and education program reviews. Publications include the Academic Guide for Freshman, the Manual of Style for Duke Undergraduate Term Papers, and the Duke University Faculty Newsletter.
This series contains correspondence, minutes, newspaper clippings, notes, publications, questionnaires, and reports of the Subcommittee of the Curriculum of the Committee on Undergraduate Instruction of the Undergraduate Faculty Council. This series includes multiple drafts of the Krueger Report, called "Varieties of Learning Experience" (1968), which is a curriculum study funded by the Board of Education of the Methodist Church. Topics include committee appointments, work-study, honors program, the arts, physical education, and other curricular matters from faculty, alumni, and student groups.
This series contains correspondence, newspaper clippings, and reports of the Subcommittee on Grading of the Committee on Undergraduate Instruction of the Undergraduate Faculty Council. Topics include modification of the grading system, the possible institution of a plus and minus grading system, the pass-fail grading system, and academic standards and grading.
This series contains memoranda, reports, and minutes of the Subcommittee on Policy of the Committee on Undergraduate Instruction of the Undergraduate Faculty Council. Topics include administering the plus and minus grading system, the pass-fail grading system, the structure of the subcommittee, and subcommittee appointments.
This series contains agendas, correspondence, and reports of the Curriculum Committee of the Undergraduate Faculty Council. Topics include curricula reviews, course approval requests, course revisions, long-range planning, and curriculum models for undergraduate education.
This series contains Faculty Advisors' Handbooks, correspondence, and reports of the Faculty Advisory System of the Undergraduate Faculty Council. Topics include pre-registration, curricula, the pass-fail grading system, advisement schedules, and reports pertaining to the faculty advisory program.
This series contains agendas, correspondence, minutes, reports, and student proposals of the Program II Committee of the Undergraduate Faculty Council. Topics include general program information, committee appointments, student applications with proposals, and graduating with distinction. Program II allowed students to design their own plan of study.
This series contains the files of Robert Charles Krueger, who headed the Curriculum Committee which overhauled the undergraduate curriculum. His reforms allowed students leeway to select more elective courses from a broader range of disciplines.
The records of the Commission on University Governance span the years 1969 to 1971, with most of the material dating from 1969-1970 academic year. The collection is organized into two series: materials created by the Commission, and materials collected by the Commission.
The records generated by the Commission on University Governance consist primarily of minutes and transcripts of its official meetings, including supplementary materials distributed for discussion at these meetings. Typed transcript drafts exist for meetings 1 through 19, and this series contains minutes for all 34 meetings. Also included in this series are two copies of each of the Commission's three Interim Reports (Board of Trustees, Central Administration, and Departmental Governance), as well as drafts of these reports. Other official Commission records include information on the Commission's members and clippings from the Chronicle, Durham Morning Herald, and Durham Sun dated September 30, 1969 to April 16, 1970 concerning the work of the Commission. Correspondence not included with Commission minutes is divided into two folders: 1) letters dated April to September 1969, all regarding the establishment of the Commission, and 2) official correspondence dated after that time, including a January 1970 introduction to the Commission's activities for new Duke President Terry Sanford and a January 1971 response to the Commission's Interim Reports from the Provost.
The Commission on University Governance amassed a significant collection of reference materials for use in formulating its reports, which are roughly arranged into subseries. It appears that members of the Commission twice attempted to catalog and collate these materials, as two indexes entitled "Materials on Hand" and "Table of Contents" are a part of this series. However, neither index is accompanied by a complete set of the materials listed on it. To preserve original order, the sections of listed materials that are present have been identified and retained, even when they duplicate each other. Printed matter that was not a part of either of these subseries falls into two categories: reports and other matter from Duke committees, schools, and organizations, and printed matter that was created by other universities and organizations. This series also contains several bibliographies, arranged both by subject and by format, as well as periodical abstracts, alphabetized by author, donated to the Commission from the Special Committee on Student Residential Life. Also present in this series are the complete minutes of the Chancellor's Advisory Committee, known as the Committee of Twelve, which met nineteen times between October 1969 and March 1970, when it was disbanded.
University Archives also has catalogued copies of the Commission's three Interim Reports:
Board of Trustees - 378.756 D877CTR
Central Administration - 378.756 D877CGO
Departmental Governance - 378.756 D877CDG
The University Reports Reference Collection contains major reports concerning accreditation, university administration and governance, strategic planning, the curriculum, facilities, and student life. There are cataloged copies of many of these reports.
The collection covers Aleksandar Sedmak Vesić's working and class papers. Included is research into soil mechanics, the application of engineering principles to construction materials, and the use of explosives in excavation projects. Vesić also lectured widely and participated in a large number of conferences and committees; materials related to those activities are also represented.
Contains materials related to Vollmer's career in the German Department at Duke, including correspondence, recommendations, minutes, memoranda, grade books, department enrollment, faculty appointments and wartime activities. Also includes correspondence relating to University Church services, the Academic Council and the Vigil. The rest of the collection includes address/date books and diaries (including travel diaries) kept primarily by Maude Hugo Vollmer, wife of Clement Vollmer. Also includes a list of houses (with architect names) in the Duke Forest, a New Testament, a University of Southern California handbook, a wallet full of expired oil company credit cards. Original brittle folders were replaced for preservation. Inclusive dates are 1898-1983.
Diaries, address and date books kept by Maude Vollmer, wife of Henry Vollmer, 1898-1983
Contains memoranda, correspondence, budgets, reports, agreements, financial information, organizational records and other printed matter pertaining to the financial status Duke University's academic departments, organizations, benefactors, and Medical Center. Major topics include Duke University's relationship with the Duke Endowment and Local Unions 77 and 465, the Internal Audit Office, the Chancellor's Office, the Board of Trustees, Medical Center construction, university properties, parking, the physical plant, facilities renovations, the Environmental Concerns Committee, Research Triangle Park, Research Triangle Institute, highway development, the Duke University Athletic Association, WDBS campus radio station, Duke University Marine Lab, Duke Forest, Charles B. Huestis, C. G. Henricksen, the American Dance Festival, business auxiliaries, departments of the Business and Finance Division (including Housing, Data Processing and the Computation Center, Accounting, Dining Halls, Personnel, Materials Support, Safety and Traffic, Utilities, and the TelCom division), the Duke Vigil, and the University Architect. Major correspondents include University Architect, University Council, Business Manager, Corporate and University Controllers, Terry Sanford, William G. Anlyan, and A. Kenneth Pye. Subject files are arranged alphabetically.
Contains the professional and personal subject files of Gerhard Henricksen from 1962-1966, the period during which he served as Vice-President for Business and Finance.
Contains miscellaneous records created by the office of the Vice-President for Business and Finance and its predecessor, the Business Division, primarily in the form of clippings, reports, and handbooks. One item of note is a handbook titled "President's Book," which appears to have been a reference manual created to introduce new president Douglas Knight to the university's basic financial status. Materials range in date from 1963-1979.
This series contains budgetary, Duke Endowment, and Research Triangle Institute information, as well as materials regarding the University Planning Committee, traffic and parking concerns, local union activity, and the 1968 vigil. Also contains a large amount of correspondence between Huestis and the Personnel Department, Medical Center administrators, and other university officials.
This series is dominated by records of Business and Finance Division departments, especially Business Auxiliaries, Housing Management, Personnel, Physical Plant, and Special Utilities. The latter department underwent significant growth and change during this time, including the construction of a 44KV electrical substation and TelCom division, and expansion of the telephone and electrical power capabilities of the university. This series also includes materials from the many university committees on which Huestis served or which reported to him, including the Building and Grounds, Environmental Concerns, Investment, Personnel Policy, and Residential Life committees. Also contains considerable financial information concerning budgetary matters, the Duke Endowment, and Duke University Athletic Association. This series may be the best source of information on the history of WDBS, and is also thorough in its representation of local trade unions and the Research Triangle Park. Two boxes are devoted to Medical Center records, which are dominated by financial information, correspondence to Medical Center administrators, and reports on the construction of Duke Hospital North. T. Rowe Price folders contain comprehensive monthly reports on university investments and other aspects of the university's financial status. Boxes 28-31 contain official handouts and agendas from meetings of the Board of Trustees and its subordinate body, the Executive Committee, whose meetings coincided with those of the larger Board. Materials range in date from 1966-1975.
Contains Huestis' subject files from 1967-1980 (bulk 1976-1979) . Consists largely of financial information and correspondence concerning the Medical Center, Personnel Department materials, and folders on various renovation projects underway in the mid- to late- 1970s. The remainder of this series is primarily subject files on university committees, organizations, and departments.
Contains Medical Center and Duke Hospital records from 1970-1974.
Contains subject files of Charles B. Huestis. Materials mostly concerning Business and Finance Division Conferences, the American Dance Festival (ADF), and trade unions at the university, AFSCME Local 77 and the International Union of Operating Engineers Local 456.
Contains departmental personnel audits, information on high level administrative searches and appointments, and records from the Human Resources office. This series dates from 1972 to 1985 (bulk 1978 and 1985). This series consists primarily of correspondence between Huestis and other university officials, especially the University Architect, University Council, Business Manager, Corporate and University Controllers, and President Terry Sanford. Several folders are dedicated to the patenting process of Duke's Dr. F. F. Jobsis's NIROS-scope invention. Also includes some Board of Trustees and Duke Endowment materials, as well as records from the Marine Lab, Internal Audit Office, Human Resource Department and the Research Triangle Foundation.
This accession contains records documenting activities of the Business and Finance Division of the University, including records of the offices of the Business Manager, Treasurer, Comptroller, and Vice-President. There are files that pre-date the 1962 formation of the division, but which document functions latter carried out by it. The records include correspondence, audits, cost studies, reports, financial records, statistics, personnel information, and other material. Major subjects include administration of grants and endowments from the Ford Foundation, the W.K. Kellogg Foundation, the Duke Endowment, and the Doris Duke Foundation, among other funds and trusts; the fianances and operations of academic and non-academic departments, professional schools, the library, and affiliated organizations such as TUCC. Officials represented include Stephen C. Harward, G.C. Henrickson, A.S. Brower, and C.B. Huestis.
This accession contains Charles Huestis' records and includes correspondence, subject files, reports, datebooks, and other general files. This material is restricted for 25 years from date of origin. Trustee committee records are restricted 50 years from date of origin.
This accession consists of Charles Huestis's files, including correspondence, meeting minutes, reports, and other materials. There is significant material related to the Medical Center.
Includes a letter from Tom Butters to Chuck Huestis. Also included are copies of correspondence to members of the Duke Blue Devils Basketball team following their 72-69 point loss to Louisville in the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Finals in 1986 (Weldon H. Williams; Mark Alarie; H. Tommy Amaker; David M. Henderson; Johnny E. Dawkins, Jr.; Jay Bilas; and coach Mike Krzyzewski).
Collection contains photographs of various members of the Class of 1929 at various reunions in 1984, 1986-87, and 1989. Individuals are identified on the back of most photographs. Notable individuals include Duke University President Terry Sanford.
Contains correspondence and memoranda concerning the development of the Duke genetics program, the faculty advisory system, the Biology-Forestry Library, an Experiential Cross-Sectional Community, University Center planning, the music building, U.F.C.A.S., the Osborn Faculty Discussion Group, and the Fund for Experimental Education at Duke.
Contains minutes, financial summaries, damage reports, appeals forms, and small amount of correspondence pertaining to the residents of Warwick House at Duke University from 1968 to 1978.
The materials in this collection consist of the papers of Richard L. Watson, Jr. accrued between 1941 and 1989. The majority of the collection pertains to his work at Duke University, both in the department of history and in service to university faculty and administration. There are also papers relating to his writings and research, his work in the Army Air Force Historical Office, professional organizations, and personal life. Types of materials include correspondence, notes, committee minutes and reports, teacher course evaluations, chapter files and draft chapters.
The first series, Army Air Force Historical Office, contains material Watson collected while serving as the Chief of the Southwest Pacific Branch of the Army Air Force Historical Office. The work of the office was eventually collected in the seven volume series, The Army Air Forces in World War II, edited by Wesley Frank Craven and James Lea Cate. Watson's contributions to the series pertain chiefly to Vols. I and IV. Types of material in this series include general correspondence about the work of the Historical Office, newspaper clippings chronicling daily events, and notes taken from primary wartime documents on Southwest Pacific Air Operations. Major events include Rabaul, Battle of the Bismarck Sea, Philippines campaign, Pearl Harbor, Wau, and Nassau Bay. Strategic topics include bombing techniques, equipment, men and morale, radio and radar, supplies, and allocations. There are also draft chapters of his work, The Fifth Air Force in the Huon Peninsula Campaign. Also included are several reference works such as maps of the Southwest Pacific, a gazetteer of New Guinea, and several works by J.V. Cragg on the Fifth Air Force.
Includes Philippines campaign and Pearl Harbor.
Includes notes on Allocation, Australia, Bases (General), Bombing Technique, Bombers (Light), B-25 and B-26, B-24 and B-17, Bibliography, Appendix, SWPA-Oct. 1943, Plans, Service, Rabaul, Operations, SWPA Jan. 44, Appendix, Bibliography, Unit Histories, Problems with men and materials, Organization, Personnel, Photos, Plans, Rabaul, Radio and Radar, Shipping and Supply; Supply dropping, Status, Training, Troop Carrier, Tsili Tsili, Wau, Strategic Situation, Plans and Allocations, Service Command, Preliminary Offensive Moves, Bismarck Sea, Nassau Bay, Part II, Conclusions, Citations, Dobodura, Darwin, Fighters, Intelligence, Miscellaneous, Modifications and Maintenance, Night Fighters.
Includes notes on Bases, Allocations, Enemy order of battle, Miscellaneous Morale, Navy, Operations cables, Operations-General, Organization, Personnel, Plans after Jan. 1944, Radar, Service, Status, Supply and Maintenance, Training, Miscellaneous.
The materials in the second series, History Department, contain information relating to Watson's forty-five year tenure in the department both as a professor and administrator. Insights into his teaching style can be gleaned from numerous teacher-course evaluations as well as syllabi and book lists. The series contains thirty-five years of correspondence primarily relating to departmental and teaching matters. Also included are departmental meeting minutes, enrollment statistics, and materials relating to graduate students. This series includes numerous planning and curriculum reports, the bulk dating from the 1960s to early 1970s. There is also a run of the departmental publication Research Notes (Nos. 1-14), which describes the scholarly research of faculty members. The development of the departmental honors program is detailed as well as the early history of teaching African-American history at Duke. This series also contains historical information on the activities of the Trinity College Historical Society, a social and professional society for faculty and graduate students of the History Department.
During the fall of 1971, Watson was on a Fulbright in Australia.
The third series, University, documents Watson's involvement and service on numerous faculty and university committees, councils, and task forces. Watson served as vice chair of the University Council from 1961-62; Chairman of the Academic Council from 1964-66, as well as 1975-77; and vice chair of the Academic Council from 1973-74. Materials relating to the University Council document discussion about tuition benefits for faculty children, by-laws, faculty qualification and improvements, and the role of University Council. His long service on the Undergraduate Faculty Council (UFC) and Undergraduate Faculty Council of Arts and Sciences (UFCAS) is reflected in this series. He chaired the UFC Faculty Committee on Admissions and the minutes and report are contained in these files. He also was appointed to the review committee on the structure of UFCAS. In addition, in the early 1970s Watson was on the executive committee of the Undergraduate Faculty Committee of Arts and Sciences. These files include a proposal on Afro-American studies.
Watson was appointed to numerous university committees formed in response to the period of student protest and unrest of the late 1960s. This series contains minutes, reports, correspondence, and background material from said committees. The Committee on Judicial Procedures, also called the "Watson Committee", was created to define and implement judicial procedures and address the pickets and protests regulations. The files contain committee reports, meeting minutes, background materials and correspondence. They also include information on the existing judicial structures and procedures of the Men's Student Government Association, the Women's Student Government Association, and the Nursing and Medical Schools. There is also information on honor codes as embedded in the judicial structures. The materials from the Faculty Committee on Student Concerns relate to the Allen Building takeover, Afro-American studies program, and the Afro-American society. The Student-Faculty-Administration Committee files contain information relating to university drug policy, military recruitment on campus, and pickets and protest policies.
In 1981, Duke President Terry Sanford proposed Duke as a possible site for the Richard M. Nixon presidential library. Watson played a central role in faculty debate over the appropriateness of placing the library at Duke. This series contains news clippings, correspondence, academic council material, and his own diary and notes on the controversy.
Materials in this series relating to the Committee on Social Implications of Duke's Investment Policy all appear to be originals from committee co-chair William A. Reppy and chairman James D. Cox's files. The committee consisted of twelve members appointed by the President and included four administrators, four faculty members, and four students. The committee was allowed to make specific recommendations or general guidelines to the Board of Trustees. It primarily dealt with issues relating to investments with companies doing business with South Africa. This collection of materials includes news articles, church shareholder resolutions, correspondence, and minutes.
Other committees and subjects addressed in this series include the Task Force on Yearly Operations, the Institute of Policy Studies and Public Affairs, the library council and the George Washington Flowers Collection, the Forest History Society, Phi Beta Kappa, the South Atlantic Quarterly, and the YMCA.
Includes information on desegregation of Durham YMCA.
Includes information on the drug policy, military recruitment on campus, and pickets policy.
Includes tuition benefits for faculty children.
The fourth series, Professional Organizations, documents Watson's long contribution of service to national, state, and local professional historical organizations and his work for the promotion of history. His work with the American Historical Association includes serving on the Ad hoc committee on Ph.D. programs in history, as well as being a session chair and member of the committee to collect the basic data of American political history. For six years he served the Organization of American Historians, and its predecessor organization, the Mississippi Valley Historical Association, as a member of their prize committees. Documents in this series shed light on the changes in prize policy and process. In addition to serving as its president from 1976-1977, Watson served on numerous annual program committees and as session chairs for the Southern Historical Association. This series contains material on program and nominating committees, sessions, and his work on the board of editors of the Journal of Southern History.
Watson also worked to advance the promotion of history. This series documents his work with the National Historical Publications and Records Commission, the NDEA Institute for Advanced Study in American History, the National Coordinating Committee for the Promotion of History, and the United Negro College Fund Distinguished Scholars Program.
The series also contains materials related to Watson's work with historical organizations at the state and local level. It documents his twenty-year involvement with the Historical Society of North Carolina, as well as his work with the North Carolina Literary and Historical Association, and the State Archives of North Carolina. At the local level, this series contains materials about the Durham County history project to publish a history of Durham County, N.C.
Includes his article on O. Max Gardner
Forty years of Watson's research and writings are reflected in this fifth series, Research and Writings. The bulk of the series is related to the two major books that Watson edited along with William Cartwright, Interpreting and Teaching American History, and Reinterpretation of American History and Culture. These books were aimed at giving a historiographical overview of American history to high school teachers. Leading scholars of the time contributed essays. The files, which include chapter files and general correspondence, reflect the changes in historiographical interpretations of American history from the early 1960s to the early 1970s. Book reviews, articles, grants and grant applications make up the rest of the series.
Materials in the sixth series, Personal, relate to Watson's personal activities. They include items about his life in the military, including his military records, correspondence, and a diary from 1944. The series also details his involvement with St. Philip's church of Durham and the Episcopal Church, Diocese of North Carolina. A copy of his curriculum vitae and items related to his retirement and the establishment of the Watson Graduate Fellowship are also included.
The University Archives Web Archive Collection consists of approximately website snapshots harvested between 2010 and the present. The majority of the collection are Duke University-affiliated sites, either built on domains owned by the University or on external platforms by affiliated offices, departments, or organizations.
The collection is arranged into eight series: Administration, Academics, Athletics, Public Relations, Student Organizations, Campus Controversies, Miscellaneous, Publications, and Student Activism. The Administration Series includes websites of Duke administrative offices and units. The Academics Series includes websites of academic colleges, departments, and programs, as well as research institutes, interdisciplinary programs, and materials related to faculty. The Athletics Series includes websites of the Duke Athletics program as well as student-run club athletics. The Public Relations Series includes websites related to Duke's communication with employees, the government, students, and the general public. The Student Organizations Series is the largest grouping in the collection, and includes websites of general interest groups, the Greek system, honors societies, selective living groups, arts organizations, political and social cause organizations, religious and cultural organizations, service organizations, and student government. The Campus Controversies Series includes websites collected about controversial events involving Duke and its student body. The Miscellaneous Series consists of several websites that do not fit into the above series.The Publications Series consists of the websites of various publications produced by Duke and Duke-affiliated organizations. The Student Activism series consists of websites, social media content, and individual blog posts and online articles related to various movements on campus led by students.
Due to the size of the collection, the techniques and tools of web harvesting, and the evolving nature of the Internet, some websites have been crawled more comprehensively than others and are represented more faithfully than others.
This subseries includes Webpages associated with the Office of Student Affairs. Some areas targeted specifically by the University Archives include the Women's Center and Twitter streams for both the Women's Center and the Center for Sexual and Gender Diversity. Other areas under the aegis of the Office of Student Affairs, including student conduct policies as well as Title IX and sexual misconduct policies, can be found in the webpages captured under the Student Affairs top-level website.
Parts of the website have been captured since 2010, though the site was not crawled comprehensively until 2013.
Websites in this subseries were captured as a document of the student's own response to media exposure. Rumors regarding the student's participation in adult films began to circulate on an online message board and the student gave an anonymous interview to Towerview (The Chronicle). Her real name and personal information circulated online, prompting coverage from external media sources. The subseries includes editorials penned by the student, two interviews conducted with text publications, and three audiovisual interviews.
The websites in this subseries were captured to document the University's decision and subsequent reversal to give the Duke Muslim community the opportunity to chant the adhan, the Muslim call to prayer, from the Duke Chapel bell tower on Fridays. The subseries includes the associate dean for religious life's editorial announcing the call to prayer, and two articles about Duke's reversal including reactions from the student body.
Contains three bound booklets of outlines and lessons for courses on Modern Algebra, Elementary Topology and Wave Equations.
The Wetherby Papers contain printed material (including pamphlets, brochures, flyers, programs, speeches, and clippings), correspondence, minutes, memoranda, teaching aids and other teaching materials, student papers, photographs, research notes, writings, and other papers. Inclusive dates for the collection are ca. 1930 to 1976, with the bulk of material from 1947 to 1976.
These papers chiefly reflect Wetherby's interest in three major areas: teaching English as a foreign language, broadcasting, and debating. In the first category falls material on grammar and enunciation (including numerous exercises, tests, and other teaching aids), speech and hearing pathology, and a small number of administrative papers dealing with the teaching of English to international students at Duke University. In the area of broadcasting, there are clippings, course descriptions, lecture material, and printed material on the history of radio and television; its methods, principles, and policies; legal status; government policies affecting broadcasting; and audience and market research. Wetherby also kept clippings, printed matter, and copies of speeches on communications and broadcasting in general, as well as on specialized topics such as TV violence and cigarette advertising.
Files concerning the history of Duke University include materials on a proposed FM station for the campus (1957-1968), as well as selected student papers on such topics as broadcasting at Duke, the Vigil of 1968, and the Associated Students of Duke University in a conflict with WDBS. There are also a number of selected student papers on various aspects of communications, broadcasting, and the persuasive speaking.
There is a card file on members of the Debate Team with their records by opponent and tournament, and a small amount of material (correspondence, records, circulars, a telegram) on the West Point National Tournament for 1962 to 1964.
Useful information regarding a significant incident early in Wetherby's tenure as debate coach will be found in William King, Not fit to debate? National debate topic on Communist China gets hackles up, in the Duke Alumni Register, vol. 65, no. 2, Nov.- Dec. 1978. The article deals with Wetherby's defense of the right of collegiate debaters to argue this sensitive topic in 1954, at the height of the McCarthy era. Wetherby appeared on the See It Now program of Edward R. Murrow on CBS Television.
Wetherby coached three teams from Duke University which appeared on national television on the College Bowl series, in 1955, 1960, and 1968. Some materials in the collection deal with the logistics of these teams' travel and appearances, and on the operation of the telecasts.
Gathered in separate folders as well as scattered throughout the collection is a large amount of printed material in the form of brochures, handbooks, pamphlets, newsletters, and copies of speeches. Included is material from organizations like the National Association of Broadcasters, the Federal Communications Commission, the Southern Speech Association (later the Southern Speech Communication Association), and the Speech Communication Association. The collection from the Southern Speech Association and its successor organization includes a consecutive run of programs for annual conventions from 1951 to 1976. The material on the Speech Communication Association includes consecutive issues from 1968 to 1976 of Free Speech, a newsletter of this organization's Commission on Freedom of Speech.
During the 1960s, Wetherby frequently was sent to regional high schools to promote Duke University to prospective students.
Memoranda, correspondence, cards, reports, lists, newsletters, brochures, pamphlets, tests, exercises, minutes, clippings, speeches, plays, manuals, student papers, magazines, and other papers. The bulk of the materials dates from Wetherby's years at Duke University, 1947-1976. See also related materials in the 1977 Addition.
Includes minutes of one meeting in 1964 of International Students Advisory Committee, ca. 1964
Includes further material on articulation and some material on speech pathology
Includes exercises, tests, manual
Pamphlets, brochures, correspondence, clippings, programs, newsletters, lists, bills, photos, application forms, clippings, and other papers. See also related materials in the 1977 Addition.
Includes the Free Speech newsletter for same years.
Some of these writings may date from Wetherby's time as a student.
Some course materials mixed; each folder should be examined for specific course material
Contains press clippings on Terry Sanford campaign for the U.S. Presidency, 1976
Contains letter from Jesse R. Helms
Include budget, correspondence, clippings, FCC application, minutes of Management Board
3 binders and 1 notebook contain notes on speech, persuasive speaking, semantics, speech pathology; tests; syllabi; outlines of books; lessons; and other papers. These are either lecture notes or class notes made by Wetherby as a student.
Loose sheets now grouped in a folder: lesson plans, bibliographies, diagrams, tests, notes on various phases of speech and speech pathology. Some of these materials may stem from Wetherby's time as a student.
Carolyn Murray Happer interviewed nine alumnae who graduated from the period of 1931 to 1947. Her goal was to document the experiences and perceptions of women who attended Duke University during this period. In particular she wanted to know why they selected and how the Woman's College figured into that decision. She also explored her subject's position and negative experiences at Duke. Her interviewees include several class leaders, a member of the Duke family, and others who have had long established ties to the school after graduation. Class of 1946. Buschman also worked at Duke from 1946 to 1993 in various positions. Her interview covers primarily her undergraduate years.
Class of 1935. Former Duke Alumni Office employee.
Class of 1932.
Class of 1947. Greenberg discussed how she was treated as a Jewish student at Duke during WWII as well as soldiers returning from the war to school.
Class of 1938 and Law School Class of 1940. Also served on the Board of Trustees, 1975-1987. Harris discusses her decision to attend Duke and her time in Law School
Class of 1931. Married Duke professor John Tate Lanning. Lanning transferred to Duke from Queens and discusses social life, including her sorority and dances.
Class of 1931. Long-time Duke librarian.
Class of 1939. Served on Board of Trustees, 1961-1981.
Class of 1947.
Contains correspondence, addresses, reports, memoranda, clippings and printed material documenting Woodhall's role in the governance of the University. Topics include the student unrest of the period, such as the Allen Building takeover and Vietnam War protests, unionization of the Medical Center, the management of University-owned housing, as well as Duke Forest.
Much of the collection is made up of folders Woodhall labeled memorabilia, grouped by month, which include correspondence, copies of newsclippings, Office of Information Services releases, invitations, programs, and other materials. For each month, Woodhall wrote a brief summary of the events and activities that occurred, which sometimes includes commentary or reflection, usually succinct. Most of these events and activities are represented to some degree in the folder.
1969 folders include materials about student protests, including the Allen Building Takeover, and administrative activities around Woodhall's appointmentment as the first Chancellor in the wake of President Knight's announcement of retirement. These folders also include a large number of newsclippings from around the county related to student protests, student involvement in academia, and administrative activities at Duke and elsewhere. 1969 and 1970 folders include some materials about the retirement of Douglas Knight and the selection of Terry Sanford as President of Duke University. Materials from June 1970 on focus primarily on activities in the Medical Center, including the founding of the Davison Club, and Woodhall's professional activities as a neurosurgeon, including his attendance of the Congress of Neurological Surgeons in October 1970 and naming as a Statesman of Medicine in 1971.
The bulk of the memorabilia is made up of news releases and newsclippings. Much of the original material is related to the Medical Center. A smaller portion is related to Woodhall's activities as the Special Assistant to the President and then as Chancellor Pro Tem of the University. These materials include correspondence with administrators and members of the Board of Trustees as well as letters from friends, faculty, and members of the public, and other materials.
The remainder of the collection is made up of subject files, alphabetical by topic, which also includes some correspondence, printed matter, and other materials.
Accession (2006-0015) consists primarily of files, lectures, and papers for classes taught by Ucko; files pertaining to cross-cultural communications prepared for the U.S. Army JFK Special Warfare Center; 20 labeled color slides; and travel diaries from Sierra Leone, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Egypt, Senegal, Pakistan, and Holland.
Addition (2007-0015) (750 items, 1.2 lin. ft.; dated 1973-1994) contains typescripts and promotional material for articles and books including Endangered Spouses; course materials including files, papers, and class rosters; correspondence; and one audiocassette. Also included are materials from a study of Russian genealogy by students at Aldephi University directed by Ucko.
Addition (2007-0066) (200 items, 0.6 lin. ft.; dated 1996-1998) contains slides, photographs, oral histories on audiocassettes, 1 VHS videocassettes, printed and other materials all concerning a 1996 exhibit Lenora Ucko curated in honor of her late husband, Henry Zvi Ucko. The exhibit was entitled What We Brought with Us, an exhibit about the personal items taken by German Jews who fled Nazi Germany in the 1930s. The exhibit was first at Duke University and then moved to the NC Museum of History in Raleigh.
Addition (2011-0063) (900 items, 1.5 lin. ft.; dated 1994-2002) largely consists of materials from Ucko's involvement in the Museum of the Jewish Family. Museum materials include programming pamphlets and advertising, exhibitions, budget materials, grant applications, Board of Directors correspondence and meeting minutes, newsletters, mission and by-laws, and other materials from the operation of the organization, primarily dated 1997-1998. Other items in this addition include some of Ucko's correspondence, her research on museums and memory, and some StoriesWork materials.
Addition (2013-0052) (75 items; .1 lin. ft.; dated 1975, 1981-1982, 2004, 2006, 2008-2009, 2013) includes a research paper and notes on Israeli absorption centers as well as newsletters and pamphlets for StoriesWork. Other items in this addition include pamphlets and flyers advertising Ucko's research consulting business, a program for a 1975 production of All in the Family at the University of Maryland Munich campus (Ucko served as faculty advisor), and a 2013 resume.
The Lenora Greenbaum Ucko Papers were acquired as part of the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture.
Accession consists primarily of files, lectures, and papers for classes taught by Ucko; files pertaining to cross-cultural communications prepared for the U.S. Army JFK Special Warfare Center; 20 labeled color slides; and travel diaries from Sierra Leone, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Egypt, Senegal, Pakistan, and Holland.
Addition (750 items, 1.2 lin. ft.; dated 1973-1994) contains typescripts and promotional material for articles and books including Endangered Spouses; course materials including files, papers, and class rosters; correspondence; and one audiocassette. Also included are materials from a study of Russian genealogy by students at Aldephi University directed by Ucko.
Addition (200 items, 0.6 lin. ft.; dated 1996-1998) contains slides, photographs, oral histories on audiocassettes, 1 VHS videotape, printed and other materials all concerning a 1996 exhibit Lenora Ucko curated in honor of her late husband, Henry Zvi Ucko. The exhibit was entitled What We Brought with Us, an exhibit about the personal items taken by German Jews who fled Nazi Germany in the 1930s. The exhibit was first at Duke University and then moved to the NC Museum of History in Raleigh.
Addition (2011-0063) (900 items, 1.5 lin. ft.; dated 1994-2002) largely consists of materials from Ucko's involvement in the Museum of the Jewish Family. Museum materials include programming pamphlets and advertising, exhibitions, budget materials, grant applications, Board of Directors correspondence and meeting minutes, newsletters, mission and by-laws, and other materials from the operation of the organization, primarily dated 1997-1998. Other items in this addition include some of Ucko's correspondence, her research on museums and memory, and some StoriesWork materials.
Programming pamphlets and advertising, budget materials, grant applications, Board of Directors correspondence and meeting minutes, newsletters, mission and by-laws, and other materials from the operation of the organization, primarily dated 1997-1998. Includes coverage of the exhibit "What We Brought With Us." Also includes early inventories of the Rosenzweig Collection. Particular exhibitions or programming are detailed below.
Addition (2013-0052) (75 items; .1 lin. ft.; dated 1975, 1981-1982, 2004, 2006, 2008-2009, 2013) includes a research paper and notes on Israeli absorption centers as well as newsletters and pamphlets for StoriesWork. Other items in this addition include pamphlets and flyers advertising Ucko's research consulting business, a program for a 1975 production of All in the Family at the University of Maryland Munich campus (Ucko served as faculty advisor), and a 2013 resume.
The collection contains research files, clippings, minutes, notes, and other materials related to the work of the United Nations Ad Hoc Committee on Slavery.
Collection comprises a photograph album maintained by an unidentified wealthy, possibly British, family; handwritten captions appear in several different hands. The 159 photographs either document family travel as souvenirs, or document both their travel and photograph collecting, because many of the photographs are albumen prints by famous late-19th-century photographers, including Bonfils, Zangaki, Samuel Bourne, Francis Frith, and others not identified except by the presence of their negative numbers and captions on the photograph.
From these photographers there are images of Israel; Syria; Palestine; Jerusalem; Athens, Greece; and Agra, India, along with photographs of statues and other artifacts recovered in archaeological digs. Other photographs in the album were probably taken by family members, first in Venice, then in various places, including Scotland, England, and Jamaica. Among these photographs are albumen and cyanotype prints. Photographs in the album date somewhere between 1850 and 1897, and range in size from 1.5 x 2-inches to 8.5 x 11.5 inches. Acquired as part of the Archive of Documentary Arts.
Pages 138-186 of the album contain family photographs, incuding 46 albumen and 30 cyanotype photographs of individuals, groups, and animals, as well as a few photographs taken in Jamaica, Scotland, England, and other locations. The majority of these prints are 3.5x4.5-inches, although a few are 1.5 x 2-inches and up to 8x10-inches. The photographs are often accompanied by handwritten captions, and are dated between 1892-1897. A few photographs and captions have been removed from this section of the album. A photograph list has been housed with the item.
Collection comprises forty gelatin silver exhibit prints and two vintage prints of images taken by photographer James Van Der Zee, known for his portraits and documentation of daily life in Harlem, N.Y., especially during the Harlem Renaissance (1920s-1930s). There are views of parades, athletic teams, a Baptist group, a first-grade Harlem classroom, and the interior of Van Der Zee's studio, as well as fictionalized settings and poses conveying hopes, dreams, and humorous situations. Included is a self-portrait of the photographer playing the violin, circa 1930. Other subjects include an elegant couple in raccoon coats; a 1923 soldier; the New York Black Giants baseball team; a female impersonator; a man in an open funeral casket with a superimposed poem extolling fatherhood; a group of African American Hebrews in front of the Moorish Zionist Temple; Marcus Garvey in regalia during a parade; a Garveyite with his son; entrepreneurs Madam C.J. Walker and her daughter A'Lelia in their "Dark Tower" salon with a large group of friends; boxer Jack Johnson; and a double exposure portrait of entertainer Bill "Bojangles" Robinson.
Prints are arranged in chronological order. The earliest images, from 1908, are of Van Der Zee's first wife and daughter, probably taken in Lenox, Massachusetts, Van Der Zee's birthplace, and a blacksmith, probably taken in Virginia, where Van der Zee spent some time before moving to New York.
The exhibit prints were created from original negatives chiefly from 1981-1983, under the supervision of James Van Der Zee until his passing in 1983. Others were printed around 1987 by his widow Donna Mussenden Van Der Zee. All prints bear titles, dates, edition information, and copyright on verso. Most are from runs of 250 limited edition prints created for various exhibits. Some are signed by the photographer.
The majority of the prints measure 10 x 12 inches (sheet dimensions); image sizes range from 10 1/8 x 8 to 10 x 2 5/8 inches.
Original gelatin silver prints by James Van Der Zee.
Alternate title from an online image: "Black Cross Nurses at UNIA Parade Honoring Marcus Garvey." UNIA was the United Negro Improvement Association, led by Black nationalist Marcus Garvey. Recto bears editing marks; verso carries GGG Studio stamp at 272 Lenox Avenue, indicating the print may have been created afer 1930.
Alternate title from an online image: "Father's Farewell." Image of man in open casket surrounded by flowers, with superimposed narrative extolling fatherhood. Verso bears the GGG Studio stamp at 272 Lenox Avenue.
These prints were created from original negatives under the supervision of James Van Der Zee mostly from 1981 to 1983. Others were printed around 1987 by his widow Donna Admussen. All prints bear titles, dates, edition information, and copyright on verso. Most are from a run of 250 limited edition prints created for various exhibits. Some are signed on the verso by the photographer. With few exceptions, they are embossed in the lower right corner with the seal of the James Van Der Zee Estate.
Kate and Rachel Van Der Zee were the first wife and daughter of James Van Der Zee.
Alternate title from another online image: "Cousin Suzie Porter." This portrait of Van Der Zee's cousin was taken in her Harlem home.
Signed. Alternate title from online images: "Wedding Day (Future Expectations)."
Signed.
Alternate title from online image: "Nude, Harlem."
Garvey appears seated in a car with several others during a parade.
Alternate title from another online image: "Parade Along Lenox Avenue."
Alternate title: "A Parade Going South on 7th Avenue at 139th Street, Harlem."
Signed.
Signed.
Signed.
Signed.
Interior shot of large group at CJ and A'lelia Walker's home and salon in Harlem; both women appear in the photograph.
Signed. The Moorish Zionist Temple of the Moorish Jews was founded in 1921 by a follower of Marcus Garvey, Mordecai Herman, who appears in the group photograph.
Signed.
Full title appears on negative; "You Will Find Him" and the date appear on verso. The studio address, 109 W. 135th St., appears on the negative.
Signed. Interior of Van Der Zee's studio, location not determined. Beginning in the early 1930s, prints with an address stamp bear this location 272 Lenox Avenue.
Group portrait of approximately 50 children at a community pool.
Signed.
1931 appears in negative; 1930 on verso.
Alternate title: "Couple, Harlem."
Signed. Double exposure portrait.
Signed.
Date on negative appears to be 1936; date on verso is 1935.
The majority of the collection is financial papers. These are arranged chronologically, with one folder per year. Most of the financial papers are invoices, bills, accounts, receipts, and taxes. Some of the receipts are for slaves, equipment for his farm, and basic goods. The collection also contains court papers, contracts, and wills; letters of condolence for the death of Claudia, Van Lear's daughter; an historical essay about a Reverend J. Watts; correspondence with Van Lear's brother-in-law, James Tate; and four undated recipes for medicine.
First folder is 1815-1868. Second folder is 1873-1905 and undated.
Collection comprises a photograph album with 38 albumen photographs (6 x 4.25 inches) pasted on sheets of thick cardboard. The album's binding features decorated wood with a Jerusalem cross. The back of the binding is marked "Jerusalem" in English and Hebrew. Photographs are numbered and feature subtitles in English and French. Photographic subjects in Jerusalem include: exterior and interior of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre and several stations of the cross, the Wailing Wall, Via Dolorosa, various gates of Jerusalem, Mosque of Omar, Tomb of the Kings, Garden of Gethsemane, and Mount of Olives. Among the images of Palestine are: Jaffa, Tomb of Rachel, Bethlehem, Hebron, Tomb of Lazarus, Jericho, Dead Sea, the River Jordan, and the Tower of David and Hippicus. There is also a photograph of two women at a mill. All but two of the photographs are signed with the American Colony mark.
The majority of the collection consists of drafts or manuscripts of Wainio's writings, which ranged from poetry to short stories to novels to plays. The condition of the drafts is fairly good, although many are incomplete or only excerpts of the text. There are many draft versions of Amorfos, Letters from Al-Kemi, and The Spiral Canyon, which was later published by New Native Press as Starfuck, Wainio's first novel. Small amounts of material exist for several poems, short stories, and plays.
The remainder of the Writings, Manuscripts, and Drafts series includes some of Wainio's published works, present in both broadside form as well as in journals or other serials. Of note are the several issues of Beatitude, edited by Wainio at one point, as well as two issues of Vanishing Cab, his own publication. Also in the series is a small amount of Wainio's artwork.
There are over 30 journals present in the Journals series and they include diary entries, travel plans and notes, drafts of writings and poems, as well as sketches and artwork. They offer insight into Wainio's thought process as an author, as well as his methods of writing.
The remainder of the collection contains correspondence, including a series of correspondence between Wainio and Thomas Rain Crowe; personal materials, including obituary information, some of Wainio's college papers, and other miscellaneous materials; and photographs, which are largely undated snapshots taken by Wainio during his travels through Greece and the United States.
Includes handwritten and typescript drafts of Wainio's poetry, prose, and plays. The largest amount of material is from his work on Starfuck and Amorfos. Also includes a small amount of his artwork; published versions of his poetry and prose; as well as some works published by others.
The Sprial Canyon was renamed to Starfuck. It is a novel published by New Native Press.
Drafts and outlines
Includes drafts, proofs, published version, Egypt materials and paraphenalia, and materials from Upper Egypt and Cairo.
Wainio's personal journals: bound volumes with his diaries, drafts, and artwork.
Majority of the correspondence consists of letters from Thomas Rain Crowe. Also includes miscellaneous incoming correspondence dating from the 1970s to the 1990s, as well as correspondence between Crowe and Wainio's friends and family following his death in 2006.
Includes obituary information, Wainio's numerology chart, some college papers, a statement on poetries, and other miscellaneous materials.
Color snapshots of Wainio or by Wainio, including portraits, scenery from various vacations and travels, and pictures of his friends and colleagues. Most are unlabelled and undated.
This collection consists of posters of wanted criminals collected by an anonymous police detective in Westchester County, NY during the 20th century. Posters are from the United States and Canada. The bulk of the collection is from the Federal Bureau of Investigation in Washington, D.C. The collection includes some well-known criminals such as Lester Gillis, alias Baby Face Nelson; Mary Evelyn Frechette, alias Mrs. John Dillinger; Arthur "Doc" Barker; mobster Roger Touhy; and bank robber Frank Nash. Radicals from the 1970s include Weather Underground member Cathlyn Platt Wilkerson; Symbionese Liberation Army member Kathleen Soliah; and Black Liberation Army fugitives JoAnne Chesimard (Assata Shakur) and her brother, Mutulu Shakur.
The collection includes approximately 2,250 small-format wanted posters, most measuring 8 x 8 inches. Posters range in size and condition, many with manuscript markings or inked stamps, and some are trimmed and pasted onto printed mug shot cards. The collection was first arranged geographically, then further divided chronologically. Well-known criminals aforementioned are located in their indicated folders. Posters from the Federal Bureau of Investigation are included in the folders marked "District of Columbia." Folders are alphabetized in each box, with the exception of the District of Columbia, which occupies Box 2 entirely.
Includes Frank Nash.
Includes Mary Evelyn Frechette, alias Mrs. John Dillinger; Lester Gillis, alias Baby Face Nelson; and Arthur "Doc" Barker.
Includes Roger Touhy.
Includes JoAnne Chesimard (Assata Shakur); Mutulu Shakur; Kathleen Ann Soliah; and Kathlyn Platt Wilkerson.
The collection comprises an African-American family photograph album maintained by Henry Washington between approximately 1940-1982. The album features 261 prints, including 204 black-and-white and 57 color prints, ranging in size from 1x1 inches to 8x10 inches. The photographs present the Washington family and its social networks in detail, with a focus on Boston's Roxbury neighborhood. A few images reflect the service members with whom Washington served during World War II or the military service of family members. The majority of the photographs are uncaptioned. A family member has identified several photographs of Henry Washington. Four additional photographs were laid in, including a photograph of a clipping regarding Washington's birth, along with two sets of laminated newspaper clippings dating from 1877. Acquired as part of the John Hope Franklin Research Center for African and African American History and Culture.
Commonplace book, dated circa 1769-1774, appears to have been created by Zuriel Waterman and Sarah Dean. The name Sarah Dean appears on the inside cover, but many later entries written in a different hand are attributed to Zuriel Waterman. The book contains a number of excerpts, verse, and other writings including: "A Chronological Table of Epithets of the Kings of England," "Versus on Mr. George Whitefield," "A Short and True Description of North Carolina and its Inhabitants," and "Care for bite of a mad dog." Also included is a count of inhabitants in the colony of Rhode Island by locale and race, a sketch of the city of Troy, a petition of the Continental Congress to the King of England, and various religious and political writings.
The H. Lee Waters Film Collection dates from 1936 to 2005 and comprises primarily 16mm black-and-white and color reversal original motion picture films created by Waters between 1936 and 1942 as he traveled across North Carolina, South Carolina, and Virginia filming the residents of small towns. Waters aimed to film as many residents in each community as possible, often setting up his camera at the main intersection in town to capture community members walking downtown. Waters also typically filmed school children entering or leaving school and workers arriving to or departing from mills, plants, and factories. Waters often included trick shots to engage his audience, such as trains moving backwards or children jumping in reverse. Although the films are dominated by shots of crowds and individual faces, Waters also captured a wide variety of activities, like school recitals, sports, mechanics at work, and manufacturing processes in factories. Waters also regularly filmed in Black communities within the towns he visited, and in the case of Chapel Hill, filmed exclusively in the Black community.
The H. Lee Waters Film Collection dates from 1936 to 2005 and is comprised primarily of 16mm black-and-white and color reversal original motion picture films created by Waters during the filming of the Movies of Local People series. The collection, arranged alphabetically by town name, also includes various preservation and access elements created over the years from the original footage: 16mm internegatives, 16mm screening prints, 3/4-inch Umatic videotape, Betacam SP videotape, Digital Betacam videotape, VHS videotape, DVD discs, and high resolution digital files including 2K preservation video copies. The majority of films represented in the collection are silent, black and white, and were filmed in North Carolina. The collection includes a small number of color films and one film with sound. Where reels containing mixed black-and-white and color footage were preserved to 16mm film, they were separated into two reels based on picture characteristic during the preservation process.
The collection also contains a small number of papers and physical objects related to Waters, including: photocopied and original advertisements for screenings of Waters' films; photocopies of Waters' notes, receipts, and correspondence concerning film sales; related ephemera; VHS copies of a news report and a film on Waters; a copy of the master's thesis written on the films of H. Lee Waters by University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill student Martin Johnson in 2005; home movies created by Waters from the 1930s to the 1950s; and oral histories with Mary Waters Spaulding and Tom Waters, the children of H. Lee Waters.
In addition, the collection contains a photocopy of two log books (encompassed in one volume) maintained by Waters between the years of 1936 and 1942 to document his earnings from the Movies of Local People films. The logs provide information about film screenings in the towns that he visited, including the dates of the screenings, the theaters where the films played, admission prices, the number of tickets sold, and advertising revenues. See the digital collection to view the logbooks. Moving image resources, including all extant reels and access copies, from H. Lee Waters' Movies of Local People. Where legacy paper shotlists (descriptions by scene) exist, note that they may not match the time stamps of the latest transfers of the film. Also note that descriptive practices around gender and race have shifted over time and there may be variations within the shotlists. Where available, newer time-stamped shotlists accompany videos in the H. Lee Waters collection in the Duke Digital Repository (https://repository.duke.edu/dc/hleewaters).
Screened on one of the following dates: 1938 January 31-February 01; 1939 February 06-07; 1940 February 05-06; 1941 January 13-14; 1941 December 01-02. Screening Theatre: Capitol Theatre.
A copy compilation reel of films made from H. Lee Waters work in Burlington, NC, in the late 1930s and early 1940s. Original is in the State Archives of North Carolina.
Original motion picture film reel held by the State Archives of North Carolina, Record ID MPF.84.
Screening Date: 1939 March 06-07. Screening Theatre: Virginia Theatre.
Screening Date: 1939 May 01-02. Screening Theatre: Carolina Theatre.
Screening Date: 1940 September 23-24. Screening Theatre: Carolina Theatre.
Screened on one of the following dates: 1936 July 30-31; 1936 September 09; 1938 May 12-13; 1940 August 29-30; 1941 February 06-07; 1941 October 01-02. Screened at one of the following theatres: Y.M.C.A. Theatre (1936); Colonial Theatre (1938); Dixie Theatre and Palace Theatre (1940, 1941 February);Swanee Theatre (1941 October).
Individual identified as A.P. Baldwin appears at approximately 0:00:29 - 0:00:31, smiling and hiding from the camera behind another man. A.P. Baldwin was principal of Honaker High School in Honaker, VA.
Screened on one of the following dates: 1936 September 25-26; 1939 December 11-12. Screening Theatre: Curtis Theatre.
Screening Date: 1940 April 29-30. Screening Theatre: Patovi Theatre.
Screening Date: unknown. Screening Theatre: unknown.
Source: Milo Holt
Screening Date: 1936 December 04. Screening Theatre: unknown.
Trailer for bringing Movies of Local People back to their local theaters in the late 1950s/early 1960s.
Scenes from a holiday parade in Thomasville, NC, November/December 1959. H. Lee Waters daughter, Mary Waters Spaulding, is on the "Miss Queen Piedmont" float. Miss America and Miss North Carolina are featured on additional floats.
Contains pieces of reels from Forest City and Mayodan, as well as several cans frozen shut with rust.
Mary Waters Spaulding talks about her father, H. Lee Waters, and growing up around her family's photography business in Lexington, North Carolina.
Tom Waters discusses the evolution of his father H. Lee Water's photography business in Lexington, how Waters came to make Movies of Local People, and the Waters' family life.
The Wells Rich Greene, Inc. (WRG) Records contain primarily print advertisements and broadcast commercials and advertising spots for clients of WRG. Materials span 1966-1998 and include magazine and newspaper advertisements, proof sheets, audiocassettes, videocassettes, analog and digital audio tape. Corporate documentation includes press releases, clipping files, and staff photographs and slides. Clients represented in the collection include: American Motors; Bristol-Myers (Boost, Clairol, Herbal Essence, Vagistat); Cadbury (Canada Dry, Schweppes); Continental Airlines; Ford; IBM; ITT (Technology Institute, Sheraton); Liberty Mutual; MCI; Miles Laboratories (Alka-Seltzer); New York Department of Commerce; Pan Am; Philip Morris (Benson & Hedges, Player, Dunhill); Procter & Gamble (Gain, Oil of Olay, Pringles, Folder's, Sure); Ralston Purina (Chex, Dog Chow, Tender Vittles); Seagram; TWA; and Warnaco (Warner's lingerie).
NOTE: Throughout this finding aid, TRT refers to Total Running Time, the total duration of content contained on a tape or film. Restrictions on access: Audiovisual materials are closed to researchers until use copies can be made. Contact Research Services for more information.
Includes papers of several different members of the family including correspondence, clippings, speeches, and writings of Virginia Westall in her capacity as aide to General R. L. Eichelberger; papers from family's various civic capacities; WWI and WWII correspondence; military records; family photographs and clippings; other personal correspondence including some related to cousin Thomas Wolfe; photos of Asheville; Westall genealogy; some poetry, a journal, other writings; business papers including those concerning violin making and some from a family member's construction business in Asheville.
Collection includes correspondence from both World Wars and other personal family records. Also includes some oversize items separated from main collection.
Collection contains a 4-page letter (7 March 1873) Whipple wrote to Jeremiah Hacker, a Maine reformer, abolition advocate, journalist, and publisher of "The Pleasure Boat." Whipple mentions an article Hacker wrote for "The Voice of Peace," as well as his admiration for "The Pleasure Boat" and "N.P. Rogers' Newspaper Writings." He also discusses his difficulty printing "The Voice of Peace," and the increase in pacifism since the end of the Civil War, noting that abolitionists and industrialists Adin Ballou and E. D. Draper were constant in their support of peace, while members of the utopian Hopedale Community were "untrue to the professions of years." Whipple included a printed photograph with his letter.
The Whirley Family Papers collection is divided into seven series: Teaching Materials, Speeches and Sermons, Correspondence, Nigerian Mission, Printed Materials, Personal Materials, and Audiovisual Materials. Teaching Materials is divided into four subseries: subject files, specific course materials, Samford University administration, and Carl Whirley's personal coursework and notes. Speeches and Sermons contains three subseries: Carl Whirley's sermon notes, sermons by himself and others, and speeches by himself and others. Correspondence contains contact between Carl and Enid with personal friends as well as American churches and official organizations. Nigerian Mission includes both administrative documents from various Nigerian missionary organizations as well as some uncaptioned photographs. Printed Materials consists of eight subseries: articles, newsletters, newspapers, pamphlets, serials, books, programs, and church bulletins, mostly from their time in Nigeria. Personal Materials largely relates to the lives both before and after their missionary work in Nigeria.
Teaching Materials consists of subject files, specific course materials, administrative documents, and Carl Whirley's personal coursework notes. Subject files include lecture notes on various world religions and books of the Bible, especially the New Testament. Course materials are specific to courses Carl taught while at Samford University from 1979-1987, and other institutions until 1990, including New Testament Survey and Comparative Religions. They include lecture notes, handouts, syllabi, exams, and student work samples. There is one folder of K-6 teaching material on Nigeria. Administrative documents are also from his time at Samford University. Whirley's personal coursework notes span 1944-1953. Arranged alphabetically by folder title within each sub-series.
Carl Whirley lecture notes
Carl Whirley lecture notes, handouts
Handouts, pamphlets
Carl Whirley lecture notes, handouts
Carl Whirley lecture notes, handouts, pamphlets
Carl Whirley lecture notes
Handout
Pamphlet
Dr. Thomas Starkes's Tape: lecture notes, handouts
Carl Whirley lecture notes, handouts
Carl Whirley lecture notes
Carl Whirley lecture notes, handouts, Pamphlets, Religious literature
Carl Whirley lecture notes, pamphlets, religious literature
Carl Whirley lecture notes, serials
Handouts and pamphlet
Carl Whirley lecture notes, writings, clippings
Carl Whirley lecture notes, handouts, religious literature
Carl Whirley lecture notes
Carl Whirley lecture notes, newspaper
Carl Whirley lecture notes, religious literature
Carl Whirley lecture notes
Carl Whirley lecture notes, handouts, religious literature, student work
Carl Whirley lecture Notes
Carl Whirley lecture Notes
Carl Whirley lecture Notes
Carl Whirley lecture notes, religious literature
Carl Whirley lecture notes, student work
Carl Whirley lecture Notes
Carl Whirley Lecture notes, religious literature
Carl Whirley lecture Notes
Carl Whirley lecture Notes
Carl Whirley lecture Notes
Carl Whirley lecture Notes
Carl Whirley lecture Notes
Carl Whirley lecture Notes
Carl Whirley lecture Notes
Carl Whirley lecture Notes
Carl Whirley lecture Notes
Carl Whirley lecture Notes
Dr. William Hersey Davis's notes
Carl Whirley lecture notes, handouts
Carl Whirley lecture notes, serials
Carl Whirley lecture notes
Carl Whirley lecture notes
Carl Whirley lecture notes
Carl Whirley lecture notes
Carl Whirley lecture notes
Carl Whirley lecture notes
Carl Whirley lecture notes
Carl Whirley lecture notes
Carl Whirley lecture notes
Carl Whirley lecture notes
Carl Whirley lecture notes
Carl Whirley lecture notes
Carl Whirley lecture notes
Carl Whirley lecture notes
Carl Whirley lecture notes, handouts
Carl Whirley lecture notes, newspaper
Carl Whirley lecture notes
Carl Whirley lecture notes
Carl Whirley lecture notes
Carl Whirley lecture notes
Carl Whirley lecture notes, handouts
Handouts
Handout
Student Course Evaluations of Carl Whirley
Department report
Handouts, correspondence, programs
Invitation
Student directories, program requirements
Correspondence, meeting minutes, memos
Correspondence, memos, programs
Correspondence, committee reports, notes
Newsletter, agendas, minutes. Some materials for the Southeast Region section.
Scholarship application resumes
Handout, application materials
Carl Whirley lecture notes, handouts, syllabi
Carl Whirley lecture notes
Carl Whirley lecture notes, handouts
Carl Whirley lecture nores, syllabi, exams
Carl Whirley lecture notes, handouts, exams
Carl Whirley lecture notes, exams
Leader materials guide
Handouts, syllabi, exams
Carl Whirley syllabi, handouts, examinations, correspondence with registrar.
Handouts, syllabi
Untitled book in manuscript form, outlines, Dr. Osad Imasogie papers
Carl Whirley lecture notes, syllabus
Outlines
Course held at New Orleans Baptist Theological Seminary. Includes correspondence, information sheet, articles of religious belief for faculty, notes for registrar, handouts.
Carl Whirley lecture notes, handouts
Carl Whirley lecture notes, handouts, syllabi, exams
Carl Whirley lecture notes
Carl Whirley lecture notes, syllabi, exams, study guides
Carl Whirley lecture notes, handouts
K-6 grade. Published by the Birmingham Festival of Arts Association, Inc.
Student essays, outlines, exams
Carl Whirley course notes, outlines
Carl Whirley course notes, outlines, handouts
Carl Whirley course notes, untitled text in manuscript form
Carl Whirley course notes
Manuscript text: The Pastor as a Marriage and Family Couselor by Wayne E. Oates
Untitled text in manuscript form
Carl Whirley course notes
Carl Whirley course notes
Carl Whirley course notes
Carl Whirley course notes, handouts literature
Requirements for Graduate Study (Th.D.) in the Field of New Testament, Howard College)
Carl Whirley thesis notes
Carl Whirley course notes
Speeches and Sermons contains Carl Whirley's sermon notes in both notebooks and loose-leaf papers, with handwritten and typed outlines, drafts, and notes. Also included are manuscripts of both sermons and speeches by himself and others. Arranged chronologically by year.
Notebooks and looseleaf papers, with both handwritten and typed outlines, drafts, and notes
Carl Whirley ceremony notes and outline
Sermon notes, outlines, and handouts focused on the power of prayer
Sermon manuscripts
Sermon manuscripts
Sulligent, Alabama.
Choral Drama by Agnes Durant Pylant, adapted from a dramatic sermon by Stackhouse
Speech manuscripts; often religious in topic but not delivered at church services
Speech manuscripts, cover a variety of topics, from religion, theology, and prayer to historical accounts of Nigeria
Correspondence between Carl and End Whirley with family and friends as well as various American churches and official organizations. Includes handwritten letters, typed correspondence, and emails. Official organizations include the Baptist State Executive Board, various churches in the United States, Southern Baptist Theological Seminary, Foreign Mission Board, Women's Missionary Union, and Southeastern Baptist Theological Seminary. There are also letters from Nigerians. Arranged chronologically by year.
Correspondence arranged chronologically by year between Carl and Enid Whirley family, friends; Official correspondence between Whirleys and Baptist State Executive Board, Churches in the United States, Southern Baptist Theological Seminary, Foreign Mission Board, Women's Missionary Union, Southeastern Baptist Theological Seminary; 1 letter from 1981 contains photograph
Handwritten notes between Doc and Qami
Correspondence between Carl Whirleyand Samford faculty and administration
Nigerian Mission includes administrative documents from official organizations and schools, group portraits, photographs of Nigerian mission buildings and personnel, materials for missionaries, and Carl and Enid Whirley's date books from the 1960s-1970s. Organizations include the American Baptist Mission, Baptist Education Board, Baptist Mission of Nigeria, Christian Workers' Board, Foreign Mission Board, Lagos Baptist Association, and the Women's Missionary Union. Schools include Baptist College, Hausa Pastor's School, Hillcrest School, Newton Memorial School, Nigerian Baptist Theological Seminary, and the Olivet Baptist High School. Missionary materials include handbooks and guides for new missionaries, hymn texts in foreign languages such as Hausa, church year guides, and church leadership information. Also included is the "Whirley Day" Scrapbook, made by the Shades Mountain Baptist Church in Alabama. It contains correspondence between the Whirleys and several American church congregations. Arranged alphabetically by folder title.
Ibadan, Nigeria; Meeting minutes
Nigeria; Meeting minutes
Nigeria; Meeting minutes
Nigeria; Budgets and funding documents
Kaduna, Nigeria; Administrative papers and correspondence
Budgets, receipts, and notes
Nigeria; Meeting notes
Nigeria, Sierra Leone; Survery reports and outlines
Ede, Nigeria
Ibadan, Nigeria; Meeting minutes
Kontagora, Nigeria; Advisory board meeting minutes
Iwo, Nigeria; decal
Nigeria; Annual meeting minutes, notes, handouts
Religious creed with scripture annotations
Biographies of church members and missionaries
Iwo, Nigeria and other
Miscellaneous certificates from school children and Sunday school
Ibadan, Nigeria; Meeting minutes
Manuals and guides on various roles in church leadership positions
Church calendar and service guides
Nigeria; Meeting minutes and notes
Date books with meetings and events notated
Lusaka, Zambia; Conference handouts
Photographs of Nigerian mission
Hymn texts in foreign languages, including Hausa
Eku, Nigeria and other; Administrative documents, search committees, meeting minutes
Form letters, administrative forms, handouts
Photographs of Carl Whirley at foundation laying, correspondence included
Group portraits of Nigerian missionaries and church members
Nigeria; Staff meeting minutes
Jos, Nigeria; Letters to parents, meeting minutes
Handouts and guidelines for new missionaries
Manuscript textbook by Carl Whirley
Directory and Lagos postcard
Pamphlet listing international missionaries
Map of Southern Baptist Missions in Africa; Poster for Week of Christian Prayer in Nigeria; Poster for Women's Missionary Union Golden Jubilee Fundraising (Ibadan, Nigeria)
Ogbomosho, Nigeria; Meeting minutes
Richmond, Virginia
Lagos, Nigeria
Directory
Carl and Enid Whirley namecards
Osogbo, Nigeria; Letters to parents, administrative documents, yearbook
Nigeria; Meeting minutes
Administrative documents and correspondence
Ogbomosho, Nigeria; Administrative documents, faculty meeting minutes, calendars
Ogbomosho, Nigeria
Ogbomosho, Nigeria; Meeting minutes
Ogbomosho, Nigeria
Ogbomosho, Nigeria; Outline of Nigerian history
School worship handouts
Financial documents and outlines
Indigenous languages student work
From the Principal's Desk handouts
Lecture notes, handouts, exams, student work
Oyo, Nigeria; School crest
Iwo, Nigeria; Baptist College
Handouts and conference outlines
Ogbomosho, Nigeria; Handouts, conference outline
Handouts
Notes, handouts
Alabama; Directory, announcements
Transportation tickets, maps, brochures
No location
Iwo, Nigeria; Kaduna, Nigeria
Ibadan, Nigeria; Handouts, letters to parents, form letter correspndence
Class of 1957
Conference handout
Ogbomosho, Nigeria; Meeting minutes
Inventory of Whirley personal effects
Shades Mountain Baptist Church, Alabama; Contains correspondence between Whirleys and American church congregations
Meeting minutes, administrative papers and notes
Broadside
Printed Materials includes articles, newsletters, newspapers, pamphlets, serials, books, programs, and church bulletins, mostly published during the Whirleys' time in Nigeria, 1947-1980. The publications are both international and from the United States. Many of the newsletters are from local communities in Africa, including the Girls Auxiliary Bulletin, Helps for Sunbeam Leaders, Lydia Bulletin, Mubi Minutes, and Zambian Gazette. Newspapers include several issues of the Nigerian Daily Times and New Nigerian, as well as newspaper clippings from both American and Nigerian newspapers. Pamphlets include materials intended to be distributed to Nigerian peoples on family planning, sexual health, and various religious subjects. Serials include many publications based in Nigeria, including academic publications by Baptist College, the Nigerian Baptist Theological Seminary (NBTS), and Women's Missionary Union. Books contain several publications written by Nigerian people, with others published by the Southern Baptist Convention for distribution in Nigeria. One text, Onise Alase, is in the Hausa language. Programs contain conference and convention programs from a variety of events in both the United States and Nigeria, most of which are from the NBTS, Women's Missionary Union, and Women's Training a Department (a branch of the NBTS). Arranged alphabetically within material type.
The church bulletins contain assorted church service programs, including regular Sunday worship and special services. From various churches in both Nigeria and the United States. Many of the Nigerian programs are in local languages such as Hausa. There is one folder of miscellaneous printed material gathered by a colleague of Carl Whirley. Arranged chronologically by decade. Programs for funerals have been placed in their own folder.
Religious newsletters from Africa in English
Newsletters from churches and religious organizations
United States
United States
Birmingham, Alabama; The Calvary Baptist Church
Alabama
United States; Sunday School Board of the Southern Baptist Convention
United States, Updates on missionaries from around the world
United States, updates on missionaries from around the world
United States, Devotions and prayers
United States, Communicating overseas operations to Southern Baptists
Ede, Nigeria
Nigeria
Birmingham, Alabama; Shades Mountain Baptist Church
Nigeria; Women's Missionary Union
Updates of African missionaries
Yaba Baptist Church, Lagos, Nigeria; Conference report
United States; Christian Life Commission of the Southern Baptist Convention
Iwo, Nigeria
Ibadan, Nigeria; Missionary updates
United States
Nigeria
Carl Whirley becomes president of Nigerian Baptist Theological Seminary
Nigeria; Annual session reports
Nigeria; Conference reports
United States
Vernon, Alabama; First Baptist Church
Africa
Samford University, Birmingham, Alabama
Theological Assistance Program of the World Evangelical Fellowship
United States, Agency of the Southern Baptist Convention
United States, Published by the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary
Ede, Nigeria; Birmingham, Alabama; Quarterly and monthly newsletters
United States; Monthly newsletter published by Foreign Mission Board of the Southern Baptist Convention
Lusaka, Zambia; Newsletter published by the Baptist Theological Seminary
Newspaper clippings on a variety of topics; many from Birmingham, Alabama. Includes Baptist Witness, The Alabama Baptist, The Birmingham News, Problems with the Christian Life
Includes Daily Sketch, Daily Times, New Nigerian, Nigerian Tribune, Headlines
United States and Nigeria
Nigerian newspaper. Most issues are from 1966
Nigerian newspaper, daily, morning, and evening editions
Monthly university publication
Subject information on Nigeria and the African continent
Topics on various religious subjects, including: stewardship, youth ministery, vocation, heaven, science or religion, spiritual development
Missions in Nigeria, prayer, pamphlet in Hausa
Specific to the Baptist faith, including: Baptist Ideals; Baptists, Roman Catholics, and Religious Freedom, The Baptist Faith and Message
United States, Christian Life Commission of the Baptist General Convention of Texas; Topics include race, sex, economcis, christian life, war and peace
United States, Christian Life Commission of the Baptist General Convention of Texas; Topics include Daily Work, Citizenship, Race
Subject information on family planning. Intended for Nigerian distribution
Subject information on a variety of helth topics, including: angina, first aid, measles, smallpox, tuberculosis, health for girls and boys
Historical account in pamphlet form
United States, Christian Life Commission of the Southern Baptist Convention; Topics include communisim, drugs, poverty, pornography, race relations, juvenile delinquency, gambling, mass media, abortion, urban crisis, black power
Atlanta, Georgia, Southern Baptist Convention; Sermon transcripts on a variety of religious topics
Atlanta, Georgia, Radio Committee; Sermon transcripts on a variety of religious topics
Subject information on tithing to the church
United States, Christian Life Commission of the Baptist General Convention of Texas; Topics include communism
Nairobi, Kenya
Washington D.C.
Both United States and international publications on both religious and non-religious topics
Baptist College; Iwo, Nigeria
United States, Southern Baptist Foreign Missions Journal
Nigeria; Special Christmas 1964 issue
Nigeria at War by Russell Warren Howe
Atlanta, Georgia; Division of Evangelism, Home Mission Board
Photocopied article on Carl Whirley
Ibadan, Nigeria
Women's Missionary Union
Louisville, Kentucky
Ogbomosho, Nigeria; Students of the Nigerian Baptist Theological Seminary
Baptist Women's Missionary Union of Nigeria
Nigerian Baptist Convention
by V. Lavell Seats
Weekly programs
United States, Southern Baptist Convention Press; Written by Ethel Hudson Williams
London; United Bible Societies
by Marjorie Jones
Nigeria; Women's Missionary Union
Washington D.C.; Pentworth Baptist Church
United States; Convention Press; A guide for identifying church needs
by Dr. W. R. Ola. Ojo
United States, Southern Baptist Convention Press; Written by Helen Cannon Graves
Buffalo, New York; Prometheus Books; Edited by Paul Kurtz
United States; Foreign Mission Board
by Roberta McBride Damon
United States, Southern Baptist Convention Press; Written by Johnnie Human
Nigeria; Women's Missionary Union
by Bill O'Brien
Written by Alhaji Sir Ahmadu Bello
Oxford Press
Nigeria; Women's Missionary Union
Nigeria; Ihinrere Nipa Jesu Kiristi, Nigerian language
by J. Olumide Lucas
Written by Tom McMahan
by Franklin T. Fawler, M.D.
Ibadan, Nigeria; Baptist Mission of Nigeria
Lagos, Nigeria
Ibadan, Nigeria; Written by Dr. J.T. Ayorinde
Written by I.A. Adedoyin
Written by G.B. Wright
Assorted church service programs, including regular Sunday worship and special services. Majority of the programs are from Alabama.
Church service programs from funerals in Nigeria and the United States
Assorted church service programs, including regular Sunday worship and special services. From various churches in Nigeria. Majority of the programs are in English, but many are in local languages.
Assorted church programs from both Birmingham, Alabama and Ogbomosho, Nigeria.
Assorted conventions, including several from Nigeria.
Ede, Nigeria; Convention program
Iwo, Nigeria; Convention programs
Birmingham, Alabama; Welcome packet
United States; Conference programs
Nigeria; Programme for his farewell tour
Nigeria; Programs for assorted conventions
Nigeria; Programs for assorted church services at the Nigerian Baptist Conventions
Ogbomosho, Nigeria. 60th Anniversary Program, 1971 Inaugural Ceremonies
Ogbomosho, Nigeria; Assorted bulletins and programs
Ogbomosho, Nigeria; Assorted programs
Nigeria; Assorted convention programs
United States; Assorted conference programs and directory
Ogbomosho, Nigeria; Nigerian Baptist Theological Seminary, assorted programs
Includes an theological essay by Nels Ferré, a paper on the Okunovu of Idjerhe, a Samford University Library Special Collection register for materials on the Nigerian Baptist Theological Seminary, a Religion 102 Outline of the Interbiblical Period and Genealogy of the English Bible, a program for the Phi Kappa Phi Samford University Chapter initiation banquet in 1986, a copy of Biblical Illustrator (Summer 1985), handouts regarding witnessing to world religions, and a paper on changes in the form of passage rites in contemporary Nigeria.
Personal Materials contains ephemera related to the Whirley's personal lives, as well as papers from after their retirement as missionaries. Personal papers include: homemade mad libs, meal schedules from the 1970s while at the Nigerian Baptist Theological Seminary, a hospital visitor's book from Carl's hospital stay in 1975, and miscellaneous family snapshots. Papers from their activities following retirement include conferences and retreats they attended, church council meeting minutes, church building plans, and itineraries from United States speaking trips. The series also contains reports from the Louisville Baptist Orphan's Home and Kentucky Baptist Children's Home at Glendale from 1943, when both Carl and Enid were students at Howard College. Arranged alphabetically by folder title.
Itineraries, brochures, maps
Birmingham, Alabama: Baptist Church of the Covenant; Fort Walton Beach, Florida: First Baptist Church
Birmingham, Alabama; meeting minutes
Riverside, Alabama; Cook Springs; notes and handouts
Birmingham Public Schools, Alabama
Shocco Springs, Alabama; meeting agendas, directory
by Doris McGee
Alabama
Louisville, Kentucky and Glendale, Kentucky; Visitor reports and pamphlet
by Doris and John McGee
This series contains a videocasette copy of the video "Baptist Missionaries in Nigeria," produced in 1988.
For use with the Foreign Mission Study
The Dorothy Whitlock Papers span the dates 1948-1989 and derive from Whitlock's work as an occupational therapist and medical illustrator. The collection contains visual materials which include image files and loose images of medical illustrations in a variety of media, including but not limited to watercolor, graphite pencil, brushed graphite paint, pen and ink drawings, photographs of etchings, and photographs. The images include but are not limited to portrayals of various medical procedures, conditions, techniques, and tools. The collection also contains notebooks created during Whitlock's time at the Veterans' Administration Hospital in Oteen, North Carolina, where she practiced as an occupational therapist.
Additional items include professional materials, including professional files and loose professional materials containing undated in-service notes on tuberculosis, notes and papers from the National Tuberculosis Association's conferences in 1948, 1950, 1951, and 1952 in Salt Lake City, Utah, planning materials for an occupational therapy convention in Glenwood Spring, Colorado in 1950, including correspondence and papers, and additional loose notes relating to Whitlock's work.
Acquired as part of the History of Medicine Collections at Duke University.
The notebooks were created during Dorothy Whitlock's time at the Veterans' Administration Hospital in Oteen, North Carolina, and contain Whitlock's manuscript notes on various topics in medicine taken in an unknown context, graphite sketches of medical procedures and practices, and notes on crafts such as weaving, beading, and leather work. Arranged alphabetically by title.
About 75 pages with graphite sketches of medical procedures and handwritten notes.
Contains professional files and loose professional materials including conference materials, in-service notes and lecture materials as well as some graphite sketches and correspondence.
Handwritten, undated notes on tuberculosis as well as typescript lectures and other materials regarding the treatment of persons afflicted with tuberculosis.
Includes correspondence from Barbara Small to Dorothy Whitlock, handwritten notes regarding planning the convention, Dorothy Whitlock's travel arrangements, and printed notes on admission requirements from the American Occupational Therapy Association.
Taken in unknown context; notes relate to the treatment of tuberculosis.
Typescript programs from various service recognition award ceremonies; Whitlock's name appears in recognition of her service to the V.A. hospital.
Contains handwritten notes from an unknown medical context and graphite sketches of various medical procedures.
Geometry sketches, diagrams of male pelvis and examples of cancer to kidney. Latest date is emergency phone number public advertisement, clipped from phonebook.
Contains drawings, paintings, sketches, and photographs of medical illustrations, many of which are signed by Dorothy Whitlock. These images include a variety of media, including brushed graphite paint, watercolor, graphite pencil, and photographic prints. Sizes range from 8x11" to larger panels.
Contains sketches, drawings, and paintings of medical procedures, medical disorders and conditions, and medical tools, accompanied in some cases by notes; all or almost all executed by Dorothy Whitlock.
Contains 46 labeled photograph reproductions of images, possibly etchings, pasted onto individual pages. Includes a 1 page type-script manuscript in German showing a few of the images as they appear in an unidentified text.
Includes graphite sketches, watercolor paintings, pen and ink drawings. Images depict various surgical procedures, medical instruments, and unidentified conditions.
Contains 25 items, including graphite sketches, watercolors, and manuscript notes by an unidentified artist or artists.
Contains medical illustrations created by Dorothy Whitlock in a variety of media, including but not limited to brushed graphite and watercolors. Materials are arranged chronologically, with undated materials appearing alphabetically by title at the end of the subseries.
The Susan Wicklund papers include personal correspondence and professional papers regarding her work as an abortion provider in Minnesota, Montana, North Dakota, and Wisconsin. Materials relate mostly to her work at Mountain Country Women's Clinic in Livingston, Montana in the 1990s, and include newspaper clippings, letters of support, patient reviews, donations, and administrative documents relating to the clinic in the form of sample charts, manuals, and anonymized guestbooks.
Materials relating to Wicklund's 1992 television interview on the "60 Minutes" program include a VHS tape of the interview, clippings, and many letters of support as well as hate mail.
The collection also contains materials related to anti-abortion groups and their harassment of Wicklund; these records also include legal documents referring to a related court case.
Also present in the collection are materials about various women's health organizations, support groups, conferences, and other clinics and centers, including Planned Parenthood, National Women's Organization, and the National Abortion Rights Action League. Drafts of Wicklund's book, This Common Secret: My Journey as an Abortion Doctor (2007) are also in this collection.
The papers of James King Wilkerson (1842-1919) and his family date from 1820 to 1929, and consist of Civil War correspondence, a number of almanacs used as diaries, copybooks belonging to James when he was 16 and 17, and a few other miscellaneous papers, including a genealogical sketch. There is correspondence by Lillie Wilkerson (1877-1955) and Luther Wilkerson (1874-1942), James' children, discussing social life and customs, illnesses and hospitals, employment, and personal matters; and several letters from a soldier in France during World War I. There are also two early issues of the Berea, N.C. Gazette, one from 1876, with comments on the Hayes-Tilden election, and one from shortly thereafter.
The Civil War letters were all or nearly all written by James Wilkerson, who served in the Confederate Army, 55th North Carolina Regiment, Company K, from Aug. 1861 through spring of 1865. His letters to his family are significant for their references to the ironclad C.S.S. Virginia (the former U.S.S. Merrimac); detailed descriptions of marches, including references to orders dealing with men who couldn't keep up or fell during the march; comments on the condition of crops as he moved to different locales; and references to his Civil War service around Petersburg, Va. late in the war, and his stay in the General Hospital at Greensboro, N.C. in 1865. The collection is rounded out by a copy of The Spirit of Prayer (Nathaniel Vincent, 1840), owned by James K. Wilkerson during the Civil War.
The largest section in this collection is the correspondence, 1816-1876. It covers such subjects as the naval cruises of Charles Wilkes and his son, John; the Exploring Expedition, 1838-1842, in terms of preliminary planning, the voyage itself and detailed descriptions of places visited, and publishing the results of the expedition; gold mining and milling in North Carolina; the Civil War; and Wilkes family business ventures in North Carolina. There are many letters written by prominent persons, including a particularly rich section containing letters of scientists in 1848 and 1849. Also there is a lengthy series of James Renwick (1792-1863) and Charles Wilkes correspondence. Other groups of papers are the clippings, financial papers, legal papers, miscellany, printed material, writings, and volumes.
The correspondence covers a sixty-year span, 1816-1876, with the majority of the letters being addressed to Charles Wilkes. The letters commence with one from John Wilkes about obtaining a warrant as a midshipman for his son Charles. Most of the early letters to 1818 are those of John to Charles concerning the son's early naval career and the father's advice pertaining to it.
In the 1820s begin letters from Charles Wilkes while on naval voyages, 1822-1823, describing Rio de Janeiro; Valparaiso; and the earthquake, burial customs, and clothing in Peru. The bulk of the letters for this period fall in 1825, while Wilkes was in Washington, D. C., waiting to take a naval examination for promotion to lieutenant. His letters concern social occasions, visiting friends, and prominent personages, including President and Mrs. John Quincy Adams and a dinner they gave, Mrs. Calhoun, and Prince Achille Napoleon Murat. Wilkes evidently made a conscious effort to contact and get to know the right people, pertly to further his career. Other Wilkes letters refer to the court-martial of Commodore Charles Stewart, at which Wilkes was called to testify; two French generals in Washington, Generals Lafayette and Simon Bernard; and steamboat and stagecoach travel.
Letters to Wilkes in 1825 and 1826 relate news about the trade situation in Chile, Simon Bolivar, politics and government in Peru, and U. S. Navy commissions. A lengthy series of James Renwick (1792-1863) letters begins in 1828 and continues to 1854. Renwick was an engineer and educator, professor of natural philosophy and chemistry at Columbia, and an authority in every branch of engineering of his day. The letters, which were written primarily to Wilkes and to Jane Wilkes, Renwick's sister, relate to scientific and family matters Letters of Renwick's sons, Henry and Edward, eminent engineers, and James (1818-1895), a noted architect also appear in the papers.
In 1828 and 1829 letters begin in reference to preliminary plans for an exploring expedition. Particularly, Captain Thomas Ap Catesby Jones wrote a lengthy letter on Jan. 2, 1829, about the proposed expedition. President Jackson had given him command of the exploring squadron but later eased him out of command. On May 7 Wilkes wrote to Secretary of Navy John Branch about instruments and charts for the planned expedition.
In the 1820s there begin series of letters among Wilkes family members that continue in varying degrees throughout the collection. Those included in addition to Charles are his brothers John ("Jack''), who resided on a plantation outside Charleston; Henry, a lawyer in New York; and Edmund, also a lawyer in New York; and a sister Eliza (Wilkes) Henry in Albany, N. Y. There is an extended correspondence between Charles and his wife Jane, which runs from 1825 to 1848.
From July, 1830, to May, 1831, Charles Wilkes was on an extended Mediterranean cruise. As a result the collection for this period contains many lengthy letters he wrote to his wife that are replete with detailed descriptions of such locations as Gibraltar, Port Mahon, Algiers, Tunis, Naples, Florence, and Marseilles. In particular there is an especially good account in September, 1830, of a visit Wilkes made to meet the Bey of Tunis and the prime minister at the palace. Also there is information about the French expedition to Algiers and the reaction to the French troops. Wilkes also demonstrated his interest in cultural and social life through his careful descriptions in Oct., 1830, of the National Museum, the San Carlo Opera, and churches in Naples. He also participated in much social life while visiting France in Dec., 1830.
The letters for 1832 and 1833 fill only a portion of one folder. Of note is a letter, July 28, 1833, by Charles Wilkes's brother John about the South Carolina militia, states rights, Governor Hayne, and politics in South Carolina
A long series of letters from Henry Wilkes in New York to his brother Charles in Washington, D C., appears from 1834 through the 1840s. The topics are primarily business and financial matters, sale and management of property, rental houses, and the Jackson City Association. Henry also wrote concerning elections in New York, riots there, and his attitude toward blacks. Of additional interest are letters in Dec., 1834, one that Charles Wilkes wrote to Secretary of the Navy Mahlon Dickerson about measurements of the eclipse, and one from James Renwick to Wilkes in reference to the U. S. Coast Survey.
By mid-1836, some correspondence begins to appear concerning preparations for the coming Exploring Expedition. For example, Wilkes wrote to John Boyle, Acting Secretary of the Navy, in July about instruments he needed for the voyage and requesting funds to purchase charts, books, and instruments. In August Wilkes journeyed to England and Europe to obtain scientific instruments for the expedition. In 1837 he wrote to Navy Secretary Dickerson about his dealings with Edward John Dent, a chronometer maker in London, and later about the disposition of instruments purchased for the expedition. Other letters in 1838 discuss the organization of the expedition, who will command it, speculation as to whether or not Wilkes will go, and plans and preparations for staffing and equipment. On June 3, 1838, Mary Somerville, an English scientific writer and astronomer, wrote to Wilkec about various aspects of oceanography which were still possible topics for inquiry on an exploring expedition. In the last half of 1837 are letters about Wilkes's surveying efforts and a report by Mrs. Wilkes on a visit from Dolley Madison.
From August, 1838, to June, 1842, Charles Wilkes was the commander of the U. S. Exploring Expedition. Writing from the U. S. Ship Vincennes to his wife, his letters are generally lengthy and marvelously detailed. Although little information is included about the specifics of the scientific experiments and specimen gathering, there is a wealth of information about the people and places visited. It is possible to include in this sketch only the highlights of information in the letters. Please consult the subjects listed in this Guide for further information. In 1838 and 1839, the voyagers went to Madeira; Brazil; Valparaiso, Chile; Callao, Peru; the Society Islands; and Sydney, Australia. Included is information about the homes, plants, and wine-making in Madeira; the President of Chile; travels to various small islands in the Pacific Ocean; natives; and social occasions. Also Wilkes referred to discipline problems on board ship, the officers in the squadron, the spirit of overall harmony on the expedition, and an apparent lack of support for the expedition by the U. S. government.
In 1840, Wilkes noted his sighting of the Antarctic Continent and then the trip to the Fiji Islands. This latter stop was particularly poignant for Wilkes because his nephew, Wilkes Henry, and a Lt. Underwood were murdered by natives who sometimes practiced cannibalism. The voyage was marred by several personnel problems. Wilkes suspended and sent home Dr. Gilchrist, a surgeon assigned to the expedition, and had difficulties with Joseph P. Couthuoy, a member of the scientific corps whom Wilkes dismissed. Wilkes's use of strict discipline was to result later in a court-martial.
In late 1840 and early 1841, the ships were docked in the Sandwich Islands (Hawaii), where he wrote a detailed account of an adventurous trip to explore the volcanic mountain, Mauna Loa, and of missionaries in Hawaii, In May, 1841, he noted a stop in Oregon and the Columbia River.
Letters in 1842 concern Wilkes's promotion and court-martial. His name was omitted from the list of promotions in the Navy, and he was not promoted to commander until 1843. The court-martial charges were primarily the result of his supposed use of harsh discipline on the expedition. As mentioned previously he was sentenced to be publicly reprimanded.
There begins in the late 1830s and 1840s correspondence between Charles Wilkes and his children, and among the children, which will continue throughout the collection. The children with whom he communicated were John (Jack) (1827-1908); Jane (1829-[18--?]); Edmund (1833-[18--?]), an engineer; and Eliza (1838-[18--?]). Other family letters include several from Anne de Ponthieu to her cousin Charles Wilkes in the 1830s, and a long series between Henry Wilkes and his sister-in-law Jane Wilkes in the 1840s.
The family correspondence for the remainder of the 1840s during the post Exploring Expedition period includes many letters of Henry Wilkes, brother of Charles, particularly in 1846 and 1847. They concern business and financial matters, coal property in Pennsylvania, and the sale of the Jackson City property.
During this period John Wilkes (1827-1908) wrote from the U.S.S. Mississippi, which was on a cruise to Pensacola, Vera Cruz, and other ports. Contained in his letters is a brief report of Slidell's mission to Mexico, Several of his letters are from Annapolis where John was a midshipman at the U. S. Naval Academy in early 1847. The others were written from the U. S. S. Albany, which he was on board for a surveying cruise to Mexico and the western coasts of Central and South America. While on the cruise in late 1847 and 1848, he wrote to his father descriptions of various stopping places such as the Island of St. Thomas, Curaçao, and Caracas, Venezuela. In 1848 John was appointed Acting Master of the Albany. The next year John's letters to his father consist of those he wrote while on board the U. S. S. Marion, and while attached to his father's Exploring Expedition publication work for which he traveled to Philadelphia, New York, and Washington, D. C.
John's younger brother, Edmund, wrote several letters to his family while he was in school in Philadelphia in 1846 to 1847. The bulk of his letters during this period, though, date from August, 1848, through 1849, from Charlotte, N. C. As a teenager, Edmund was given the responsibility of going to Charlotte to oversee some mining and milling property there. This extensive correspondence consists basically of reports by Edmund to his father and instructions from Charles to his son; as a consequence, much information is revealed about mining and milling efforts in the Charlotte area at this time. Specifically Edmund gave accounts of grinding ore at the Charlotte and Capps Mines, Capps Mine preparations, comments about amalgamation problems, milling ore, and working stamp, grist, and saw mills at St. Catherine's Mills Charles Wilkes owned at least a one-quarter share of the Capps Gold Mine, and also had a share in a co-partnership for the mine called the Capps Company. It was his intention to obtain possession of the engine at the Capps Mine and to provide facilities for others to use it either for shares or by a tribute system. He also wished to make St. Catherine's Mills a business place for grinding all sorts of ores, but none of his ventures in Charlotte was ever very successful or profitable.
In the summer of 1848 Jane Wilkes, the wife of Charles, took a vacation in Newport, Rhode Island, a fashionable summer resort area. Her letters in July describe the people and activities there. Mrs. Wilkes had suffered a leg injury in June, which worsened over the summer. She died in August in Newport while her husband was on a trip to South Carolina and also to Charlotte to inspect family property.
As previously noted there is a series of James Renwick (1792-1863) letters in this collection. The correspondence is particularly heavy for the 1843 to 1849 period. The letters concern reviewing of the manuscript of the Narrative of the United States Exploring Expedition and his calculations made from measurements made during magnetic observations on the expedition. Renwick also wrote about his attempt to be appointed to the U. S. Boundary Commission, which failed, and the beginning careers of his three cons.
The period, 1848 to 1849, is an especially rich one for this collection in terms of the correspondence of prominent persons it contains. From 1843 to 1861, Charles Wilkes was assigned to special service, chiefly in Washington, D, C., preparing for publication and publishing the information collected on the Exploring Expedition. Much of his correspondence during 1848 to 1849 deals with describing and cataloging the specimens, such as lichens, collected on the expedition; work on preparing charts; writing, editing, and publishing of volumes; and paying the bills for this work.
In the course of this work Wilkes received letters from many prominent scientists, naval officers, senators and congressmen, and statesmen. Please consult the List of Selected Persons in this Guide for an extensive listing of correspondents. Of particular interest are four series of letters: 1. Asa Gray, botanist, to Wilkes from 1849 to 1859, writing about work on the botany of the Exploring Expedition; 2. Jean Louis Rodolphe Agassiz, zoologist, corresponding to Wilkes from 1849 to 1861, concerning drawings of fish and echinoderm specimens from the expedition; 3. Joseph Henry, scientist and first director of the Smithsonian Institution, writing, 1849 to 1875, about loans of Exploring Expedition specimens; and 4. John R. Bartlett (1805-1886), state official and bibliographer, writing in 1849 about the sales of the Narrative and the publication of a spurious abridgment of the work. Other scientists who corresponded include Isaac Lea, James D. Dana (1813-1895), William D. Brackenridge, Titian Ramsay Peale, William S. Sullivant, and Edward Tuckerman.
The correspondence for the 1850s continues two important themes of the collection: the continuing work concerning the Exploring Expedition, and gold mining and milling in North Carolina. Throughout, there are letters referring to various aspects of the Exploring Expedition work, such as descriptions being made of specimens, appropriations and bills, as well as letters from many prominent scientists. Examples of such letters are Jean Louis Rodolphe Agassiz writing about the classification and drawings of fish specimens, Asa Gray about his work describing the botany of the expedition and William Sullivant's drawings of mosses, Spencer F. Baird about his report on the reptiles, William Sullivant about the engraving of drawings and publication of his work on mosses, and Charles Pickering about his report on the geographical distribution of plants and animals.
Many other prominent persons who were not scientists also corresponded with Wilkes during the 1850s, Of interest is a letter dated April 9, 1851, from President Millard Fillmore to Wilkes thanking him for sending a copy of his work on meteorology.
A very long series of letters between Charles Wilkes and his younger son Edmund continues from the 1840s through the 1850s, Most of the early letters concern the mills at St, Catherine's Mills near Charlotte, N. C.; financial matters; and the fact that the mills are not proving to be a very successful venture, In the summer of 1850, Edmund returned home and then in September began attending the Laurence Scientific School at Harvard to train to be an engineer, The remainder of his letters for this period primarily concern his work as an engineer on railroads in Ohio, particularly in Zanesville. His letters describe hits work, operations of the Central Ohio Railroad, and the many accidents on this railroad in 1858.
The very long series of letters from John to his father Charles Wilkes continues in 1850 until 1852 while John is on board the U.S.S. Marion on a cruise continuing to places such as Rio de Janeiro, China, and Manila Bay. He wrote very lengthy descriptive letters on this cruise. In the summer of 1852 he was working on the calculations for observations of the Exploring Expedition and also corresponded while on trips to Pennsylvania and Ohio.
The remainder of the correspondence of John Wilkes as well as that of some others pertains to mining and milling operations in the Charlotte area. In 1853 John went to North Carolina to be superintendent of the Capps mining operations and presumably to continue work begun by his brother Edmund earlier. John wrote about the condition of various mines, such as the Capps, McGinn, and Dunn mines; mining operations, such as pumping water out of the Capps mine shaft; his brief tenure as agent of the Capps Mining Company; problems with the Capps Company; and continual financial problems. By August, 1855, the Capps Mine was defunct. Charles Wilkes had been President of the St. Catherine's Mining Company. John also became involved in milling operations and sent back reports about the work, progress, and machinery repairs at the St. Catherine's Mills; stamp mills; flour and corn milling; and questions about Wilkes's ownership of St. Catherine's Mills. In 1858 John turned his attention to the Mecklenburg Flour Mills, which he purchased with William R. Myers. Other correspondence concerns a proposed St. Catherine Gold Mining Company, which would have been formed to sell a newly invented machine for reducing metallic ores.
There is considerably less bulk for the 1860s and 1870s than for earlier years, there being one box of material for each of these decades. Certain letters in 1860 begin to mention the possibility of secession. Throughout the Civil War period are references to various battles, ships, naval and army officers, and views on the war. On November 8, 1861, Charles Wilkes commanded that the British mail steamer Trent halt and be boarded. He then searched the vessel, arrested the Confederate commissioners James Mason and John Slidell, and removed them to the U.S. Ship San Jacinto. Wilkes's primary error was in searching a neutral vessel and seizing the agents on board, rather than bringing the ship into port. His actions became quite controversial both in the United States and in Europe. Although the British people were outraged by the events, a majority of Lincoln's cabinet applauded the act. The matter was finally resolved, though, when Secretary of State Seward released the prisoners, realizing that the alternative was war with England. Two letters in 1862, written by Michele Costi, a publicist living in Venice, address this affair. He wrote a strong defense of Wilkes's actions in the Trent affair. A copy of Costi's, In difesa del San Giacinto, is contained in the writings. There is no firsthand account by Wilkes of this affair in the collection.
In July and August, 1862, there is a series of letters from Secretary of the Navy Gideon Welles to Charles Wilkes, who was co landing the James River Flotilla at that time. Also in 1862 are various orders about ships, crews, and discharges, as well as letters concerning aspects of the U. S. Navy, such as health, medical care, surgeons, liquor, and deserters. Many of the letters in 1862 and 1863 comment on General George Brinton McClellan, particularly after his removal as commander-in-chief of the U. S. Army; the Wilkes family favored him. In late 1862 and early 1863 letters refer to the fact that Wilkes was passed over for promotion to rear admiral and to his reputation as an officer. His wife Mary had much correspondence attempting to secure the promotion. Wilkes was not promoted to rear admiral on the retired list until 1866. On June 1, 1863, he was detached from the West India Squadron and recalled home. Unfortunately his letters for this period at sea, 1861-1863, are not included in this collection. Only a handful of letters exist for 1864; two of them are from Wilkes to Gideon Welles concerning Wilkes's court-martial.
Family letters during the Civil War are concentrated mainly in 1862 and 1863, while Wilkes was at sea. His wife and two older daughters remained in Washington, D. C., and in their letters they discuss prominent citizens of the city, army generals, naval officers, and activities there. Many letters refer to business and financial matters.
At the conclusion of the Civil War, John Wilkes's letters from Charlotte to his father resume. John was at this time serving as the first president of the First National Bank of Charlotte and had resumed operations at the Mecklenburg Iron Works which he owned. His letters relate to business and economic conditions in North Carolina and the South during Reconstruction, making a start again after the Civil War, and business and financial matters. Wilkes was in a partnership that owned the Rock Island Manufacturing Company; letters refer to its financial problems. In about 1866, Charles Wilkes moved to Gaston County, North Carolina, where he had purchased the High Shoals Iron Works. He had a contract of sale, but no deed, so protracted legal battles ensued. The Iron Works continued to produce batches of pig iron and manufacture nails. Letters in the collection pertain to the Iron Works and its production. Only a few letters exist for 1868 and 1869.
The correspondence for the 1870s consists primarily of family letters, mostly written by John Wilkes to his father. Letters continue about the problems of the Rock Island Manufacturing Company, which had failed in about 1869. Other letters concern the Mecklenburg Iron Works, which was at one time called the Mecklenburg Foundry and Machine Shops, of which he was proprietor. He also referred to the continued question of ownership of the High Shoals Iron Works and the appropriation for the work of the Exploring Expedition in 1870. A few other letters were written by Mary and Edmund Wilkes, who went to live in Salt Lake City in 1871, but returned to New York later.
Other letters for the 1870s pertain to the Exploring Expedition. Charles Wilkes wrote to Lot M. Morrill about publishing the volumes of the work of the expedition. There are letters from Frederick D. Stuart, assistant to Wilkes, concerning funds to finish the publication of the Exploring Expedition volumes. It was difficult in the later years to obtain this funding from Congress.
The two clippings are a picture of Charles Wilkes and an article, 1862, concerning publication of the results of the Exploring Expedition.
The financial papers, 1830-1875, include such items as financial statements, Exploring Expedition statements, bills, receipts, cost estimate, and a bond.
In the legal papers, which span the years 1827-1865, are indentures, many of which are signed by Charles Wilkes and Richard B. Mason, among other parties. Also included are articles of association and other papers for the Jackson City Association, a signed approval by Secretary of the Navy Isaac Toucey of a summons to Wilkes for a trial, and undated plats. There are court documents, such as agreements, summons, a complaint, and a memorandum. Some of these items pertain to litigation concerning a Lynch vs. Wilkes family real estate dispute.
The miscellany consists of papers, 1825-1875. Exploring Expedition items include a memo in 1838 concerning the acting appointments as commanders of Charles Wilkes and William H. Hudson, magnetic measurements, and in 1858 a few items about revisions to various maps and publications of the expedition. Three depositions occur in this section in 1862 concerning fortifications at Drewry's Bluff. They are written by a deserter from the Confederate Navy, a former Confederate soldier, and a New York soldier who had been behind Confederate lines. Other Civil War papers in 1863 and 1864 relate to the court-martial of Wilkes.
The printed material spans the years 1849 to 1874. Included is a broadside that General John James Peck penned on September 20, 1864, entitled, Siege of Suffolk-Chancellorsville. The purpose of the paper was to debunk the idea that any significant portion of Longstreet's army was transferred to Chancellorsville. In the printed material also is Report on the High Shoals Property in Gaston County, North Carolina by F. Winter. This is a proof of the pamphlet written in 1873 concerning the geology of High Shoals. Other titles are Working the Gold Mines in New Granada, Prospectus of the American Review, and Map of the City of Zanesville.
While the writings cover the two years, 1862 to 1863, most of them are undated. Included is a copy in Italian of In difesa del San Giacinto, 1862, by Michele Costi. This was a defense of Wilkes's actions in the Trent affair. An English translation of this item was published as a pamphlet under the title, Memoir on the Trent Affair. A copy is housed in the Rare Book Room. Related items are The Surrender of Mason and Slidell written in Wilkes's hand and another article, both of which defend his actions in the Trent affair. Copies of Naval Reform and Abuses in the Navy, 1862, are also included. Two folders contain the sixteen-chapter manuscript Trip to the Far West by Charles Wilkes in 1863. The narrative is comprised of descriptions of the localities visited, including Pennsylvania, Illinois, Indiana, Milwaukee, the Mississippi River, St. Paul, Iowa (especially Dubuque), St. Louis, Cincinnati, Erie, New York--Buffalo and Niagara Falls, Maryland, Delaware, New Jersey, and New York City. Canal Trip in Peru is listed as being included with the manuscript but is not a part of this collection. Other undated writings describe various aspects of New York City, iron-clad vessels, New Jersey, and Baltimore.
The volumes, 1823-1847, include account books of Charles Wilkes, a notebook owned by Edmund Wilkes, and Notes related to Fejee [sic] Islands. There is an account book for the ship O'Cain, 1823, maintained while Wilkes was on a trip to ports in the South Atlantic on a sealing voyage. Wilkes was in command of the ship, which was fitted out by its owner, Mr. Winship. Other financial records of Charles Wilkes are in three Daybooks of Receipts and Expenses, 1828-1829, 1829-1832, and 1833-1835. Edmund Wilkes kept the notebook in 1847 while he was a student in Philadelphia. Evidently it was from a chemistry course. Charles Wilkes wrote Notes related to Fejee [sic] Islands from July 15 to August 7, 1840, while on the Exploring Expedition.
Two oversize items are in oversize storage: Map of the World shewing [sic] the Extent and Direction of the Wind and the Route To Be Followed in a Circumnavigation of the Globe by Charles Wilkes, 1856, and a broadside, including a plat of several lots of Charles Wilkes's land in Washington, D. C. for sale, May 12, 1874.
Collection comprises four letters written by Helen Maria Williams, two to her nephew, Athanase Laurent Charles Coquerel, one to Mrs. Joel [Ruth] Barlow, and one to an unidentified recipient. Williams provided aid for fellow republican radicals. On 22 August 1798, she wrote to her American expatriate friend Ruth Barlow. Williams hoped that Ruth's husband, the diplomat Joel Barlow, would assist James Wollstonecraft (Mary's brother), who was then in prison in Paris as a suspected spy. The letter notes Thomas Payne's [Paine's] ineffective efforts on James' behalf. Other topics in the letters include Coquerel's position, her income, the health and situation of friends and family members, and an unnamed woman she wishes to avoid. Three letters are accompanied by partial or full transcription.
Topic is mainly the the imprisonment of James Wol[l]stonecraft and Thomas Payne's [Paine's] efforts on his behalf. Full transcript provided.
Letter topics include Coquerel's family and position, and the health and situation of other family members. Partial transcript included.
Topics of letter include Coquerel's position, the possibility of her coming to live with him, her income, and the health of other family members.
Topics include the health of the recipient, and Williams' desire to meet with her, except for the possibility of also meeting an unnamed woman she wishes to avoid. Partial transcription included.
Collection consists mainly of letters Willis wrote to his wife, Altona Grinnel, but also includes letters to him and between other family members. They frequently wrote to one another in code; a key to the code is with the collection. His letters pertain to the Geological Survey as well as family, travels, the Appalachians and other prominent geologists such as Raphael Pumpelly. A few sketches are also included.
Entries describe the social life and travel of a British woman living in India with General Craigie, his wife, and daughters. They left England in November 1854, traveled by ship with stops in Egypt, and arrived in Madras in January 1855. The group lived in Madras but journeyed to other cities in southern India, including Bangalore, Mysore, and Vellore. There are references to the Sepoy Rebellion, 1856-1858, before Wilson departed India in 1860.
Collection comprises a letter E. C. Wines wrote to G. F. Thayer (1848 January 24) regarding his thoughts on the superintendent of schools in Boston. Wines mentions Alexander Dallas Bache, who served as superintendent of schools in Philadelphia. Also includes two unrelated newspaper clippings regarding Wines' participation in prison reform congresses, with dates penciled in as 1871 and 1872.
This collection includes recordings, transcripts, and planning documents from the "Witness Seminar on Experimental Economics" held on 28-29 May 2010 at the Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences. Economists who attended the seminar and who are represented in the collection are: James Friedman, Stephen Rassenti, Frans van Winden, Alvin Roth, Charles Holt, John Kagel, Vernon Smith, John Ledyard, Charles Plott, Elizabeth Hoffman, and Reinhard Selten. In addition, the collection includes drafts and proofs of the book that resulted from the seminar, The Making of Experimental Economics: Witness Seminar on the Emergence of a Field.
4 video files in MPG format.
Files in PDF, DOC, DOCX, RTF, XLSX, JPG, and TIF formats. Includes manuscript drafts with comments, proofs, cover and title page photographs, and short bios of participants for the book about the seminar, The Making of Experimental Economics: Witness Seminar on the Emergence of a Field.
Files in DOC, DOCX, PDF, JPG, RTF, and WMA formats. Includes drafts of transcripts with comments from contributors, correspondence about the transcription, notes about editorial choices, and group photographs of participants.
Files in DOC, DOCX, PDF, and XLSX formats. Includes budgets, seating plan, permission and authorization forms, timelines, bios, rules, description of what is a "witness seminar," and other documents about the planning, logistics, and organization of the event.
Collection contains correspondence, memoranda, meeting minutes, and other assorted documents relating to the activites of the Workers League for a Revolutionary Party and their publications, In Defense of Bolshevism and, later, the Bulletin. Topics discussed are mainly ideological in nature and include the break with the Revolutionary Workers League (RWL), Stalinism, Trotskyism, World War II, Unionism, and various party platforms. Political developments in Poland, Bulgaria, China, and Czechoslovakia are also discussed.
Chiefly transcripts of over 50 interviews for the Bob Wolf oral history project. Subjects include the Aztec Land and Cattle Company, 1945; below-cost timber sales and Forest Service management goals, 1980s; termination of the Klamath Reservation, 1950s; the 1976 payment in lieu of taxes bill, HR 9719; the Multiple Use Act of 1960; the National Wilderness Preservation Act; grazing fees and the 1961 Vale, Oregon, grazing disupte; the Youth Conservation Corps, 1950-1964; the Forest Road and Trail Act of 1964; the 1974 Resource Planning Act; the National Forest Management Act of 1976; the timber industry; log exports; Oregon's "Sweet Swap" of private and federal lands; public land law; construction of the Lolo Pass Road, 1957; the 1959 controversy over the Kern Plateau in the Sequoia National Forest; timber sales and the Quinalt Indian Reservation; the federal government bail-out of the timber industry, 1982-1988; the change in the Siskiyou National Forest Boundary, 1950s; national forests; the Trade Act of 1962 and US timber interests; public land management, 1950s-1980s; and the impact of the Nixon and Carter administrations on the Forest Service. Also includes a biographical sketch and an index to the transcripts.
Biograpliical interview followed by broadview of Wolf's work with the BLM, Forest Service, Bureau of tbe Budget, Comptroller General, various congressional committees and the Congressional Research Service. 35 pp
Wolf relates his experiences during the Nixon Era, memories of Erlichman as an environrnentalist, thoughts on ethics and power, and thoughts on marriage and politics. 18 pp
Wolf recalls Aztec Land and Cattle Company as related to 1954 Forest Service dispute over land in New Mexico and disputes in Oregon over railroad land ownership. Thoughts on man's impact on the land in the Southwest are interwoven. 21 pp
Wolf discusses below cost timber sales and Forest Service management goals, including justifications for deficit sales beginning with Giffor Pinchot and continuing into the 1980s. Other issues mentioned include Grimaud v. U.S. and grazing fees, conservation versus profit, definitions of profit, multiple use, and congressional activity. 28 pp
Continuation of of OH227-4 with on-going discussion of below cost timber sales with relation to Forest Service motivations, solutions, local versus national controls, and subsidies. 19 pp
The proposed termination of the Klamath Reservation from the perspective of Wolf's position on the comptroller general's staff in the 1950s. Interviewer has notable focus on attitudes of parties involved, including Senator Dick Neuberger, the BIA, the state of Oregon, the timber industry, and various factions of the Klamath tribe. 26 pp.
Wolf's experiences related to the 1976 passage of the payment in lieu of taxes bill HR 9719 (PILT), initial country pressure, county expectations, industry and forest service response, and the National Forest Management Act (NFMA). 33 pp
Wolf discusses the Multiple Use Act of 1960. Among the points included are the history, process of including definitions, wilderness versus multiple use, legislative process, significance of phrases and definitions after passage, and applications of the act. 27 pp and 29 pp
Wolf revisits the National Wilderness Preservation Act, recalling the behind-the-scenes congressional activity, Humphrey's intitial interest in the concept, Scoop Jackson's role and philosophy, timber industry response and activity, application of the act, Forest Service response and application, and the Bristol Cliffs Wilderness reduction. 34 pp and 27 pp
Wolf explains aspects of grazing fees, including the origins from Pinchot's role, the changing philosoplies and various economic determinations used, ranchers' roles and responses, grazing compared to timber, and the potentials for a system of bidding on Forest Service or BLM grazing lands. 29 pp and 6 pp
Wolf describes his experiences in the 1961 Vale, Oregon grazing dispute. Specific issues include federal grazing practices, degradation of grazing lands, ranchers' response to BLM, description of controversy and the results. 18 pp
Wolf explains the history of the Youth Conservation Corps from its forerunner, the CCC, to the legislation enacted between 1950 and 1964, the parts played by Humphrey, Johnson, and Kennedy, and some of the backgroud philosophies. 27 pp
Wolf discusses the Forest Road and Trail Act of 1964, recalling the congressional debates, potential uses of the roads, quality of roads to be built, construction parameters, repair costs, and other activities and concerns. 27 pp & 13 pp
Wolf describes the historical process behind the 1974 Resource Planning Act including tlie issue of roads, assessment of forest lands in regard to funding, effectiveness of the Act, Nixon's proposal to abolish regional offices, and Senate response. 27 pp & 9 pp
Bob Wolf and interviewers hash out the events leading up to and following the passage of the National Forest Management Act of l976. The issues discussed include principles behind the act, congressional activities, motivations of specific people, committee hearings, implementation, and sustained yield. 31 pp, 29 pp, & 7 pp
Bob Wolf pauses at this mid-point in the collection with a reminder that all events and personalities described within these oral histories reflect his viewpoint. From there he goes on to respond to specific questions about agency policy, community stability, Timber Sale Programs Information Reporting System (TSPIRS), salvage sales, and the roles of Mansfield, Murray, and Metcalf. 20 pp
By Bob Wolf at the University of Montana. Wolf lectured on the background of the Act, Momongahela Forest issues, strick interpretation of the 1897 organic act, and the roles of Senators Talmadge, Humphrey, Randolf, and Metcalf. He describes James Watt, the roles of the lobbyists, and the application of the act. 21 pp
Bob Wolf discusses the General Accounting Law including background material such as deficiencies of the public timber program 1954-1955, 1955-56 hearings in the West, the Al Serena mining claim and the role of the 1872 mining law, BIA, Indian termination policy, monopolies, David Mason, and specific timber companies in Montana, Oregon, and Washington. 30 pp
Wolf describes the behind-the-scenes process of pushing the Small Business Set-aside Amendment through the House including the main personalities involved from himself to Senator Mansfield. He also discusses the timber bidding process in terms of abuses and sealed versus unsealed bids. 14 pp
Wolf discusses the history of capital gains tax policy from the 1940s through to the 1990s and effect on the timber industry. Highlights include how the policy could be a subsidy for the forest products industry, congressional maneuvering, the role of Senator Bob Packwood, and abuse of the law by the timber companies. 15 pp
Wolf recalls a national focus on "full development of public resources" during the 1950s and the resulting impact. He begins with the history of Region One in establishing national policy and moves into congressional activity, clearcutting methods and justifications, grazing, recreational beginnings, mining abuses, multiple use, reforestation resolutions in 1960, and the Forest Service failure to evaluate. 31 pp
Wolf takes up the early history of log exports, the Morse Amendment of 1968, differences between Alask and the lower 48 states, abuse of the Tongass Forest in Alaska, Native American sales to Japan, the role of Western Forest Industries Association, the roles of Senatore Morese, Senator Magnuson, and Senator Jackson, export statistics, effect, the role of labor, Weyerhaeuser, and the emotion and economics of Alaskan contracts. 26 pp
Wolf discusses disaster aid policy through overviews of 4 events: the Montana earthquake of 1959 and the impact on the Madison River, the Alaskan earthquake of 1964 and the impact on the railroad, Mount St. Helens, and the East coast Hurricane of 1960. Some significant personalities mentioned are Senator Metcalf, Montana Governor Aronson, Senator Anderson, and Lyndon Johnson. Wolf closes with a brief overview of the Disaster Relief Act of 1965. 19pp
Wolf tells the tale of the "Sweet Swap," a nearly scandalous land exchange in Oregon involving the BLM and a timberman named Sweet from California. Senator Metcalf had previously prevented J. Neils Lumber Co. from getting legislation authorizing land exchanges (of federal and private lands). Secretary of Interior Wirth subsequently slipped land exchange language into Pt. Reyes legislation. The resultant attempted land exchange in Oregon involved negotiations that affected Oregon, the BLM, the Department of the Interior, and Mr. Sweet. 22 pp.
Wolf examines public land law from several perspectives. The first involved the initially poorly regulated "withdrawal" of public lands by the the military and resulted in the Engalls Act to standardize regulation. The next involved regulating abuses of mining claims. Perhaps the largest impact revolves around the connection between the Public Land Law revision and the Wilderness Act which were passed in the same time period. Wolf explains the relationship and how the personalities involved shaped those changes. Finally, he looks at the BLM land management process. 18 pp
McLeod and Wolf each lay out some of the history of federal government support of road construction with Wolf making the connection between logging national forests and road construction. From there Wolf explains the background of the construction of the Lolo Pass Road and describes the pressures from the Idaho side for this road as a completion of the Lewis and Clark Highway and the 1957 hearings on this issue. He includes the roles played by Senators Gore, Church, and Dworshak. 19 pp
Wolf discusses the post World War II problem of Forest Service employees which involved inadequate field housing and the difficulties of retaining the new kind of employees. He explains the l957 resolution of the problem which involved political manipulation in the House. He adds a brief history of the BLM and their housing situation. 13 pp
Wolf focuses on past attempts at reorganizing the Forest Service and BLM. During tlie Nixon administration this involved an attempt to readjust regional Forest Service Boundaries to align with a proposed 10 region reorganization of many departments. Mansfield, Bible, and Talmadge held key roles in preventing changes. During the Carter administration there was an attempt to form a Department of Natural Resources that also met with senatorial opposition. Wolf also discusses Senator Mike Mansfield's priorities on a broader scale. (see also OH 227-50) 17 pp
Wolf recalls the 1959 controversy over the Kern Plateau in the Sequoia National Forest in California. In this situation, recreationists and the Sierra Club opposed the timber sales proposed by business groups on the Kern Plateau. Wolf was sent West to investigate. He describes the trip and his subsequent recommendation against the timber sales that the Forest Service ignored. He ends with a brief discussion of land use altetanatives. 17 pp (see also OH 227-48)
This tape begins with McQuillan laying out the history of the Quinalt Indian Reservation from the beginning through the difficulties with timber sales and logging contracts of BIA mismanagement. Wolf takes over with additional background on the Quinalt tribe and then discusses the hearings, his role as forest consultant, the incompetence of the BIA, the impact on Quinalt lands, and the BIA defense of their actions. 28 pp and 16 pp
Wolf describes the events surrounding the federal government bail-out of the timber industry between l982 and l988. President Reagan signed a law providing dollar relief for timber contracts. Unfortunately this came in the wake of Western timber companies bidding above advertised prices between 1978 and 1981 in an attempt to corner the timber market so from Wolfs perspective, the relief rewarded bad beliavior. He describes the political process, the role of Senator Hatfield, and the role of greed. 26 pp
Wolf explains how the 1950s change in the Siskiyou National Forest Boundary was accomplished. It is particularly interesting that the act, which increased the size of this national forest, passed through congress quickly and with almost no controversy despite a widespread disapproval of any government land acquisitions at the time. 7 pp
Wolf recalls how the 1958 program of "road-building as an anti-recession measure" had the secondary result of providing funds for building more roads in national forests despite some agencies' insistence that timber companies should build these roads as part of their contractual responsibilities. 12pp
While reviewing 1958 government concern over timber sales in national forests, Wolf reviews forest budgets, forest service budgeting processes and timber sales in the 1950s before moving forward to a brief discussion of timber sales in 1990. 10pp
Wolf discusses the significance of lumber trade with Canada in the 1950s and 1960s, the U.S. timber interests, and President Kennedy's trade policies in regard to the passage of the Trade Act of 1962. Wolf also describes the Tariff Commission hearings over the timber industry grievances. 22 pp
Wolf describes the Forest Service bidding practices for timber sales from the 1940s to the present, problems with the system, collusion in oral bidding, and differences in Forest Service and Justice Department views on bidding practices. He explains the process of the passage of the Oral-Sealed Bid Amendment of 1978 and its effectiveness. 14 pp
Wolf explains the Attorney General's (Robert Kennedy's) opinion of 1962 regarding access to public lands. He also lays out the opposing viewpoints of federal agencies and the problems with accessing public lands. 19 pp
In describing the start of softwood lumber standards, Wolf discusses standardization of lumber products and the reactions of the industry and government officials. 15 pp
Wolf recalls the 1959 controversy over the Kern Plateau in the Sequoia National Forest in California. In this situation, recreationists and the Sierra Club opposed the timber sales proposed by business groups on the Kern Plateau. Wolf was sent West to investigate. He describes the trip and his subsequent recommendation against the timber sales that the Forest Service ignored. Finally, he considers the value of the Kern Plateau as a case study. (see also OH 227-37) 21 pp
Wolf discusses the short-lived 1960 Program for the National Forests from the Forest Service's difficulties in promoting it to legislative maneuverings and the lessons learned. 12 pp
Wolf outlines government reorganization plans by the Nixon and Carter administrations. He focuses on tlie Nixon plan to divide the country into ten regions in relation to the Forest Service as well as the broader impact. The Carter attempt to create a Department of Natural Resources differed and related more specifically to the Forest Service and the BLM. Wolf also recalls legislative response to both plans. (see also OH 227-36) 18 pp
Wolf describes the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resource Act of 1974. He notes the need for the act, the legislative maneuvering to pass it, and what it does and does not cover or intend. 16 pp
The topics Wolf covers in this email addition to the collection include his experience with Dutch Elm Disease on summer crews in 1939 and 1940, Huntington Forest grouse and deer surveys from 1941-1942, Pearl Harbor, Lookout in the Siskiyori National Forest in Oregon in 1942, forest summer camp in 1946, graduating from Forestry College in 1947, his master's degree in 1947, working in a sawmill in the summer of 1947, Civil Service exam in 1948, working for C.B. Norton Lumber Co., Forest Service work in the Ochoco National Forest, a project fire in 1950, BLM in 1950, mill studies, the Smith River fire in 1951, the BLM in the South, another small fire, a fire sale in Arkansas, white oak theft, distillate stumps, and a few more brief recollections. 46pp
In this email addition to the collection Wolf describes a BLM meeting with Escalante permit holders whose attorney was William Rehnquist early in his career. 3 pp
The topics Wolf covers in this email addition to the collection are the forest industry's 1962 "four points" agenda, a 1962 timber industry caper, and Nixon's tax woes. 6pp
Collection consists of a nearly complete lecture set of 48 hand-colored glass lantern slides published in England. The original printed booklet accompanying the set bears the full title, "Woman: the world over. A lecture to accompany a series of 54 photographic transparencies for the optical lantern." The price appearing on the booklet is sixpence.
The booklet lists 53 slides in this set, and contains detailed lecture-format captions which would be read aloud as the slides were projected. The series is incomplete: numbers 28, 47, 48, 51, 53, and 54 are not present. Titles are also printed along the mount edges of each slide but are obscured in a few cases by black repair tape. All titles are original, as is the slide order. The titles and lecture script contain historical terms and language that may be offensive to modern-day audiences. The slides measure 3 1/4 inches square (83 x 83 mm).
The slides and lecture notes were originally arranged in six series, retained in this description: Woman in Society; The Domestic Woman; Woman in Subjection; Emancipated Woman; Woman the Breadwinner; and Angelic Woman.
The women in the portraits represent races, cultures and nations around the world, among which British Guiana, China, Iceland, India, Japan, Netherlands, the Philippines, Russia, Switzerland, Tonga, Tunisia, and the U.S. There are portraits of women with high social status, married women, and women in courtship; there are women depicted in their homes, women with children, and in roles of subjugation which the lecture suggests are little more than slaves. A few images include men.
The series "Woman the Breadwinner" includes agricultural, craft, and industrial scenes, and a slide of women nurses attending to patients. The "Emancipated Woman" series includes an actress, a group of nurses, and women mountaineering. There is one slide of the Women's Temple in Chigago, headquarters for the Women's Christian Temperance Union from 1892 to 1926. Titles are present on the edges of most of the glass slide mounts, and are listed in full in the booklet.
The booklet's lecture notes refer to problematic social conditions for women, particularly regarding marriage, as well as changing social norms as the 20th century begins. The series ends with romantic images of ideal women, chiefly through the lens of courtship and beauty. Most of the missing slides are from this group.
The set held by the Rubenstein is numbered 1239 in the lecture booklet. There is no date on either the slides or the booklet, but the Women's Temple in Chigago, completed in 1892, provides the earliest date. A slide entitled "Wife of the Khedive" helps provide the latest date: the Egyptian title "Khedive" was last used in 1914. The Lucerna Magic Lantern Web Resource (viewed online November 8 2017) gives the publisher as the Riley Brothers of Bradford, Yorkshire, England, and the publication date as 1901.
Acquired as part of the Sallie Bingham Center for Women's History and Culture and the Lisa Unger Baskin Collection at Duke University.
All titles are original, as is the slide order.
Title's punctuation differs slightly from cover of lecture booklet accompanying slide set. Image is taken from the slide in the collection, "A Kaffir Belle."
A note in booklet says "Till 1914 then was Sultan."
All titles are original, as is the slide order.
The adjective "Kaffir" was widely used in 19th and 20th century South Africa as a pejorative term for black Africans, particularly Bantu people. The term was also used for a Sri Lankan population brought to the island by the Portuguese in the 16th century. In this case the term was and still is used as a non-derogatory, self-identifying ethnic term.
All titles are original, as is the slide order.
All titles are original, as is the slide order.
A negative number appears in the image.
A negative number appears in the image.
All titles are original, as is the slide order.
A negative number appears in the image.
All titles are original, as is the slide order.
The adjective "Kaffir" was widely used in 19th and 20th century South Africa as a pejorative term for black Africans, particularly Bantu people. The term was also used for a Sri Lankan population brought to the island by the Portuguese in the 16th century. In this case the term was and still is used as a non-derogatory, self-identifying ethnic term.
Slide is black-and-white, with no tinting present.
Collection comprises primarily 81 letters from 29 members of the Women's Guild of Arts between 1902 and 1949. There are 7 additional documents, including draft resolutions, certificates, lists, and notes. Three letters predate the founding of the organization in 1907. The primary topic of the letters is the crisis within the Guild regarding its women-only status, an argument regarding how restrictive the Guild should be. Pamela Colman Smith wrote to May Morris (22 January 1913) that the reason she joined the Guild was that it made a point of asking its members not to exhibit at women-only shows, as it lowered the standard of work and that the Guild was never intended to be a purely woman's affair. Other letters on the subject come from Evelyn de Morgan, Feodora Gleichen, and Ethel Sandell. Gleichen's letter was circulated to members, and the collection contains a list of those who agreed with her; several letters are marked up to indicate a position on the matter. There is also a draft resolution welcoming any move to widen the scope of the Guild "such as stimulating and interesting lectures not only from our own members but from men and women outside...It is with this in view that we supported the resolution passed at the recent Annual Meeting, inviting as Honorary Associates a few people with whose work we are in sympathy..." (22 January 1913). Other topics in the letters include the role of the president, exhibitions, lectures, and the work of the organization, along with the William Morris Centenary Commemoration in 1934.
Includes draft resolution dated 1913 January 22.
Certificates.
Exhibition invitation cards, the versos used to list objects, books, and pictures from Kelmscott Manor, probably created for the William Morris Centenary Exhibition.
List of members in agreement with Countess Gleichen's letter, dated 1913.
Collection comprises a poster that promotes the organization's "aims to make knowledge about women's bodies and health available to women," and to "develop policy about women's health with women." Important issues illustrated include affordable health care, stopping the spread of AIDS, and a woman's right to choose contraception. There is also contact information.
The Women's Worship Circle records document the creation and operation of the organization, in which members engaged with and performed feminist theology through the development of their own worship services. The records consist of correspondence, liturgies, programs, meeting notes, handouts, members' reflections, photographs and invitations.
Collection is comprised of a photograph album depicting shop window and department store floor displays featured at the Spring Convention of the Woolworth Chicago District. Displays feature a variety of goods including candies and confections, cosmetics, sewing supplies, publishing and printing, and women's clothing. Companies represented include American Colortype, Luxor, Maybelline, Merrill Publishing, National Candy, Regensteiner, Revlon (Cutex), Spool Cotton (Coats & Clark), Standard Oil, and Whitman Publishing.
Collection of 77 manuscript sermons (246 pages) that were written and used by the Reverend William Young, delivered at irregular intervals between December 1835 and January 1848. Each sermon is identified by a date and place and is signed by Young. They approximately follow the chronology of Young's circuit appointments. The text is followed by an index in which there is a brief thematic description of each sermon, along with the Bible verse upon which it is based.

